ipresenteD 30114012760271Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21471848_0001THE BOOK OF THE HOUSEHOLD; OR FAMILY DICTIONARY EVEEYTHINO CONNECTED WITH HOUSEKEEPING, AND DOMESTIC MEDICINE. WITH THE TREATMENT OF CHILDREN; MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK ROOM; THE SANITARY IMrROVEMENTS OF THE DWELLING; THE DUTIES OF SERVANTS ; AND FULL INFORMATION ON ALL OTHER SUBJECTS RELATING TO PERSONAL AND DOMESTIC COMFORT. ■ COMPILED BY COMPETENT PERSONS, UNDER THE SUPERINTENDENCE OF AN ASSOCIATION OF HEADS OF FAMILIES AND MEN OF SCIENCE. THE LONDON PRINTING AND PUBLISHING COMPANY, LIMITED, 97, 98, 99, & 100, ST. JOHN STREET, LONDON; AND NEW YORK.GLASGOW |UN1V-RS1TY LIBRARYTHE BOOK OF V THE HOUSEHOLD. ABERFRAU, or Berfro Cakes. Half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream ; mix with it ^ lb. of finely-powdered loaf sugar; add slowly I lb. of best flour. Rolled thin, cut into shapes, and baked in a quick oven for a short time. Met with chiefly in Anglesea. ABSCESS is a collection of matter arising from previous inflammation. This may be in any part of the body, and what are commonly called boils, whitlows, imposthumes, &c., are all abscesses. When the inflammation first appears treatment ought to be adopted to allay and remove it, but when this cannot be effected then suppuration, or " coming to a head," should be promoted, the matter discharged by opening the head, and the wound dressed. To allay inflammation leeches may be applied, a purgative of Epsom salts be taken, and slight doses of James's powder, only sufiicient to produce slight perspiration and depression. Cold lotions formed of half a pint of vinegar, mixed with two parts water, should be applied to the inflamed part. To an inflammation of the eye the lotion should be applied warm. The diet should be light and diluting, such as broth, gruel, and vegetables. Meats and stimulants of all kinds must be avoided. If, notwithstanding this treatment, the heat of the part increases, the tumour enlarges, attended by more pain and pulsation, then promote its suppuration by applying bread-and-milk poultices, warm and large, and its activity is promoted by putting an onion, raw and chopped fine, and sprinkled over the poultice before applying it. The poultice should be renewed twice daily at the least. When the thinness of the skin on the most prominent part of the abscess, and the appear- ance of matter shows that it is ripe, open it with a lancet, or with a very sharp-pointed pair of scissors; make the opening large. Press out the matter, and continue the poultice until, from being thick, the discharge becomes thin and watery. Then discontinue the poultice, and put on a plaster spread with yellow basilicum or calamine ointment. The last is commonly called Turners cerate. ABSTINENCE FROM FOOD. Fromwhat- ever cause this may have arisen, if the abstinence has been for a lengthened time—as, for ex- ample, twenty-four hours—the party abstaining should not at first take solid food, but either a little broth or oatmeal gruel; after that a little light pudding. The quantities should bo small at a time, and no full meal should be partaken of until after a day of this gradual nourishing has passed. Abstinence from food, when the stomach is disordered, is beneficial, and it is very objectionable then to tempt the patient to eat. The stomach requires rest—let it have what it needs. We all eat much more than nature requires, and Mr. Abernethy was quite right in considering that most of our diseases arise from our ill-treatment of our stomachs. Every one should read Mr. R. Chambers' complaint, supposed to be uttered by the Gastric Juice, the chief agent in digest- ing our food. The human frame can endure total abstinence much longer than is commonly believed. Anne Moore, " the fasting woman of Tutbury," though an impostor, and finally de- tected, lived for nine days and nine nights with- out food. ACCIDENTS : Cadtions to Prevent. 1. As most sudden deaths come by water, particular caution is therefore necessary in its vicinity. 2. Stand not near a tree, or any leaden spout, iron gate, or palisade, in time of lightning. 3. Lay loaded guns in safe places, and never imitate firing a gun in jest. 4. Never sleep near charcoal; if drowsy atACC [ 2 ] ACC any woik where charcoal fires are used, go out into the fresh air. 5. Carefully rope trees before tlaey are cut down, that when they fall they may do no injury. 6. When henumbed with cold, beware of sleeping out of doors ; rub yourself, if you have it in your power, with snow, and do not hastily approach the fire. 7. Beware of damps. 8. Admit air into vaults by letting them remain open some time before you enter, and scatter powdered lime in them. Where a lighted candle will not burn, animal life cannot exist; it will be an excellent caution, therefore, before entering damp and confined places—as wells, privy vaults, cellars, &c.—to try this simple experiment. 9. Never leave by themselves saddle or draught Iiorses while in use, nor go immediately behind a led horse, as he is apt to kick. 10. Ride not on footways. 11. Be wary of children, whether they are up or in bed; and particularly when tliey are near the fire, an element with which they are very apt to amuse themselves. 12. Leave nothing poisonous open or ac- cessible, and never omit to write tho word Poison in large letters upon it wherever it may be placed. .13. Whenever you feel veiy uneasy, tell your distress early to a steady friend. ACCOUNTS. The following is a simple and' effective mode of keeping those relative to the household. Junk, 1857. MONTHLY ACCOUNTS. June, 1857. StJNDElES. £ s. Flannel . . 0 C Carpenter . 0 11 Confectionery 0 12 Lectures . . 0 10 Corks ... 0 4 Charwoman , 0 2 Sand . Present. Mend. Watch 0 Poor ... 0 Waiter . . . 0 Newspapers . 0 3 Muslin for"! , ,^ Curtains J Matches . . 0 0 0 0 0 I'-i 2 2 5 Beer Bread, 14s., Biscuits, 2s. lO^d. . Butter, 20s. 7id., Cheese, 6s. 3JJ., Bacon, 5s. Id Candles, 10s., Soap, 2s Drugs f/.| Coals, 15s., Wood, 3s. 8d 0 Eggs 6 i Earthenware and Glass .... Grocery Greengrocery Letters, 5s., Parcels, Os. fd. . . Meat and Fish (three Tony ties,two in pickle) Milk, Cream Stationery ....... Sundries Washing Wages £27 14 £o 4 11 Balance in hangl £27 14 UECEIVED. January February March . April. . May . June . . £ 15 -21 14 20 10 27 i:i08 Month. Food. Jnnnary . E'ebruary March . . April. . . May . . . June. , . £ s. d. 7 3 8.i C 14 0 6 10 11 8 17 10 7 12 9 8 17 8 ■45 le 10* Coals, Candles, Drug:s, and Earthenware, £ s. 2 14 8 17 0 13 0 10 0 4 2 3 15 Waihing. £ s. 1 9 1 17 1 17 2 r, 1 17 1 17 Letters and Stationery. Sundries. Wages. £ s. 2 15 4 3 5 7 4 11 4 11 11 9 2 4 11 3 7il 32 18 Balance curled forward . rf, 10.1 Jill 0 0 8 8 0 9 4 11 1 8 11 0 0 ACCOUNT OF THE EXPENSES OF SIX MONTHS FROM JANUAEY 1 TO JULY 1, 1857. """" PAID. Totals. £ s. d. 14 2 6 21 12 1 14 8 3 16 5 10 14 5 8 24 7 I 105 1 5 3 7 6 10 '£10S 8 10[ ^ ] AGE AGI ACIDITY OF THE STOMACH. This is commonly called heartburn. There is a disagreeable taste in the mouth, an anxious, uneasy sensation in the stomach, eructations, accompanied sometimes with an upward dis- charge of clear, thin, acrid fluid. It is usually caused by an excessive partaking of fatty meats, fermented liquors, pie or pudding crust, or sugar, or sweetmeats, preserves, &c. To prevent acidity, therefore, avoid those kinds of food which experience teaches the patient are the cause. A diet chiefly of animal food, and from 5 to 10 drops of liquor potassa, taken with one'of the patient's meals twice a day, will usually re- move an attack. Then for a week or two take a draught twice a day, formed of i oz. of infusion of quassia, mixed with 1 drachm of tartrate of potash, and 1 drachm of tincture of cinnamon. Carbonates of magnesia and soda are sometimes taken to remove acidity; but the magnesia is hurt- ful to those liable to piles, and soda is weakening. Acidity in the Stomach of an Infant may be cured by giving it a table-spoonful, or half that quantity if less than six months old, of the following mixture :—Rub 1 drachm of magnesia in a mortar with 12 grains of powdered rhubarb, adding 3 ozs. of water, 1 oz. of simple cinnamon water, and 1 oz. of simple syrup. Shake the mixture before using. ADDER, BITE OF THE. Persons bitten should immediately suck the wound, or have it sucked by some one else if not within their own reach. The poison of the adder is perfectly harmless, even if swallowed. It is only in- jurious by being absorbed into the blood through a wound. Also, let a piece of string be tied very tight round the limb immediately above the wound, to prevent the blood conveying the poison into the system until the wound has been cauterised. Let medicines to promote perspiration be taken also, and for this purpose oz. of solution of acetate of ammonia in an equal quantity of water is a good dose. Bathing the wound with eau de Luce, or spirit of harts- horn, is also a good application, and should always be adopted. The symptoms attendant on the bite of an adder are acute pain about the wound, attended with swelling, and at first a redness, but after- wards a livid colour around the part. If the poison has been absorbed into the system, faiiit- ness is felt, the pulse becomes small and inter- mitting, sickness occurs, and the skin becomes yellowish. Death rarely occurs from the bite of the English adder, or viper, as it is sometimes ADHESIVE PLASTER. &e Plaster. ADULTERATIONS. These are too gene- rally caused by the purchaser's craving after low-priced articles; but whether so caused, or arising from the covetous and unprincipled act of the vendor, we shall point out under the head of the article adulterated what are the undesired ingredients mixed with it, and the best modes of detecting them. ^OLIAN HARP. This musical instrument, named after ^olus, god of the winds in the old mythology, emits soft and harmonious notes merely from a current of air passing over its strings. It is made as follows:—Let a box be made of well-seasoned deal, not more than one- fourth of an inch thick; in length exactly the width of the window in which it is to be placed ; in depth 4 inches and in width 6 inches. Glue on the top of this box, at its two ends, two pieces of wainscot, | inch high and i inch thick, to serve as bridges for the strings; withinside the box. at each end, glue two pieces of beech wood, about 1 inch square, and of length equal to the width of the box. Into this beech wood holes must be bored, into which holes the pegs of the strings are to pass. The strings must be of catgut, the size of the first string of the violin, and they are fastened round pegs like those of the violin, and the pegs inserted in the holes at the opposite ends of the box. The strings should be parallel, not drawn tight, and tuned in unison. To procure a proper passage for the wind a thin board, supported by a peg at each corner, is placed over the strings at about 4 inches from the top of the box. The instrument must be placed before the opening made by raising the lower sash of the window to about a level with the strings. To increase the current of air an opposite window or door may be opened. When the wind blows the strings emit sound in unison, and, in pro- portion to its force, change variously through the notes of the diatonic scale, often forming most pleasing harmonic combinations. CRATED WATERS. feSEiDLiTzPowDEE, Soda Water, and Mineral Waters. AGE, OLD. A healthful, cheerful old age is one of the blessings bestowed upon man in this world ; and no one ever attained to it who did not, throughout his youth and his manhood, keep his feet warm by exercise and his head cool by temperance. Having attained to length of days, then arises the consideration of how to prolong them in health. Age is very different from infirmity, for one person is more decayed at 40 than another per- son is at 60. The following, in general, are the septennial stages of existence:— The teeth are renewed at the seventh year 7 Puberty arrives at twice seven . . .14 Full stature at thrice seven . . . . 21 The vigour of growth at four times seven . 28 Greatest vigour of body and mind at five times seven 35 Commencement of decay at six times seven 42AIR AGE [ 4 ] General decay and decrease of energy at seven times seven 49 Old age at eight times seven . . .56 The grand climacteric of the ancients at nine times seven 63 Whenever tlie general decay is perceptible, whether at 49, or earlier or later, then a more nourishing and cordial diet should be adopted, more warmth of clothing, and more sleep. The power of the stomach to digest food has become weaker, and in proportion to that weakness the quantity of food taken should be diminished; but what is taken should be nutritious and as easy of digestion as possible. See Aliment, Clothing, Diet, Exercise, and Sleep. AGRIMONY TEA. Pour 1 pint of boiling water on 1 oz. of the fresh tops of agrimony (gathered before the flowers are formed), and 1 oz. of liquorice root, sliced; macerate for one hour in a close vessel and a warm situation; then strain for use. Dose. A tea-cupful or more two or three times a day. It has been found useful in disorders of the skin, and in a disordered state of the liver. AGUE. There are three stages in an ague fit—the cold, the hot, and the sweating stages. When a fit of ague is coming on, the patient feels a kind of distress about the pit of the stomach; he becomes weak, languid, and un- equal to any exertion. There is a chilly feeling along the course of the spine ; the countenance becomes pale, the skin dry and rough, like the skin of a plucked goose; his breathing becomes short; his pulse feeble, though quick ; he will pass his urine often, but it is small in quantity and light in colour; his tongue is dry and white, and his bowels inactive. This state is succeeded by the hot stage. By degrees the shiverings alternate with flushes of heat, which begin about the face. The skin gradually resumes it natural colour and smooth- ness, then becomes hot, red, and diy. The pulse is rapid and strong, the head aches, and the breathing is difficult. The urine is now high coloured, but still small in quantity. The third stage soon follows. A moisture appears on the face, and a copious perspiration breaks out; the thirst abates; the pulse be- comes again natural; the urine is turbid and copious, and the tongue regains its natural look. When this stage has lasted some time it gradually subsides, and the patient becomes nearly as well as before The best treatment during the cold stage is external warmth. A warm bath or, at all events, let the feet be put into warm water ; then place the patient in bed, with hot bran on the pit of the stomach, and a bottle of hot water to the feet. For children, a good thing is to rub a lina- ment, made of equal parts of soap linament and laudanum, along the course of the spine. In the beginning of the symptoms, Q or 3 grains of calomel should be given with 8 grains of rhubarb at bed-time, and the next day 2 grains of the sulphate of quina, with 1 oz. of infusion of roses, and 5 drops of diluted sulphuric acid. Take 2 table-spoonsful of this mixture every six hours. The stomach sometimes is so irritable that it will not retain the mixture, and when this is the case mix 2 grains of sulphate of quina in about 1 oz. of gruel, adding 2 or 3 drops of laudanum, and let this be injected into the rectum. The patient must not discontinue his medi- cine when the fit has once missed him, for it is always likely to recur, and he must, therefore, continue to take the medicine for about a fort- night, gradually diminishing the quantity after the first week. The causes of ague are the malaria, or un- healthy exhalations arising from putrefying vegetable matters in marshy places, or where there is much stagnant water. To sleep at night in such places in the open air is almost sm'e to bring on an attack of ague. Indeed, it is best in an aguish district always to sleep in one of the upper rooms of the house, and never on the ground-floor. " Early to bed," too, in such districts is a good rule, but the remainder of the proverb is not so applicable, as " early rising," or at least early leaving the house and inhaling the morning air will be found pre- judicial. AGUE DROPS. A preparation of arsenic too dangerous to be adminstered unprofes- sionally. AIR. Pure atmospheric air is quite as es- sential for the preservation of health as are pure water and wholesome food. Respiration comprises two distinct and sepa- rate actions, and those chiefly effected by the muscles of the chest: inspiration, or the intro- duction of air into the lungs ; and expiration, or the return or expulsion of the air from the lungs. It is essential to life, and there is a great general relation between the frequency of the pulse and the frequency of the respiratory movements. When the pulse beats at the ordinary standard in the adult there are usually two respirations for every seven pulsations. Any variation from this standard may reason- ably, except in violent exercise, justify the sus- picion of incipient ill-health. A man in perfect health should not feel that he is breathing. The great bulk of the air is composed of ni- trogen (called also azote by many) and oxygen. The proportion is four volumes or measures of nitrogen and one volume or measure of oxygen,.[ 5 ] AIR AIR These proportions are found in every quarter of the globe, whatever the character of the locality may be, and at whatever elevation the air may be examined. The nitrogen seems to have no active property; it apparently dilutes the other gas, and renders it less stimulant; but, by itself, it can neither support combustion nor respira- tion. A lighted taper introduced into a jar containing it is immediately extinguished, and it is equally fatal to animal life. The oxygen gas, which constitutes the fifth part of the Avhole bulk of the atmosphere, is the active element; it is the great supporter of combus- tion, and it is the essential element which affects the blood during the process of respiration. Exposed to its action in the cells of the lungs, the dark hue of the venous blood is converted into a brilliant red. In respiration about 20 cubic inches of air are inspired, and about the same amount of air is expired; and, if we estimate the number of respirations in the minute as ] 6 (some make them 20), nearly 20,000 cubic inches pass through the lungs in an hour; or 266^ cubic feet are transmitted through that organ in the course of twenty-four hours. Now, if, for the sake of simplicity, our readers will assume the amount of air taken into the lungs at each inspiration to be 15 cubic inches, they will be more easily enabled to understand what is to follow. The air, then, consists of 12 cubic inches of nitrogen, and 3 cubic inches of oxygen, omitting the fractional portion, of the carbonic-acid gas always present in the atmosphere. On its being returned or expired the quantity of nitrogen remains unchanged; the quantity of oxygen, however, has been altered, for now there are only 2 cubic inches of it, the remaining 15tli cubic inch being entirely composed of carbonic-acid gas—a deadly air, when unmixed, instantly fatal to combus- tion and to animal life. Independently of its chemical properties, air that has been long unchanged, and in which one or more human bodies have been confined, is possessed of qualities highly dangerous and even destructive, as we see in many instances in jails, ships, and other confined apartments. Hence the necessity and propriety of free ventilation in houses of every description; of daily admitting a thorough current of air into sleeping rooms, and, indeed, into every room of a house. From the neglect of this ventilatia)^ arise the dangerous and malignant fevers in the confined and ill-ventilated dwellings in the closes, alleys, and courts, of large towns. Since attention has been called to this circumstance, how seldom do we hear of the ship or the jail- fevers ! Though the fever, which was formerly 80 fatal in ships and jails, is still lament- ably prevalent somewhere or other, and though we still hear of towns or tracts of territory being visited with its depopulating scourge, it is not in ships or jails that it is suspected to take its rise, but in the abodes of slothful and squalid poverty, where no judicious and directing mind enforces the necessity of ventilation and cleanliness. Even in the apartment where a patient is in bed, the fear of his catching cold should not prevent us from occasionally changing the air of it, by openii^g the doors and windows for a few minutes at a time, taking care not to expose the sick person to the current of air, but closing the curtains and using such other ])recautions as common sense will readily suggest. For the chemical methods of destroying con- tagion, see Fumigation. Many circumstances connected with air, which chemistry is unable to trace or explain, are much to be attended to in a medical point of view. Under the article Ague, we have already mentioned the bad air from marshy grounds; and we have also to mention that the air seems to carry the infection of other diseases, as small- pox, measles, hooping-cough, scarlet fever, &c. The air of certain places is supposed justly to have an influence in giving a tendency to certain diseases, or to bring them on directly. The croup is frequent in cold, damp situations, exposed to the east wind or near the sea. The sea air is unfavourable in certain states of consumption, or in affections of the breast, which would probably end in that disease. The mild, equable air of the countiy, unloaded with the endless variety of matters mixing with the air in the neighbourhood of large towns, is favourable to recovery from many ailments, as indigestion, dropsy, jaundice, breast complaints, asthmas, and the wasting disease of children, as also to that feeble state of constitution which has not received any appropriate name. It is remarkable that some persons in asthma are not better in air which we should think the purest. Change of air, even to a worse, has been found of service in hooping-cough; but it is useless to attempt a cure by this at an early period of the disease, as it is hardly possible by any means to prevent it from running on a con- siderable time. In general, it is hardly worth while to try a change of air till it has continued distinctly at least a month or six weeks. A good deal of the influence of the air on the skin and lungs must depend on its degree of moisture or dryness. When there is much watery vapour in the air, it is less able to receive more, and the perspirable matter from the skin not being carried off, we shall appear to perspire more, though in reality the perspiration is less. In like manner, the watery vapour which is continually thrown off by the lungs is not carriedAIT ALO [ 6 ] away fast enough hj a heavy, moist atmosphere; and in certain diseases of the lungs, in colds, consumptions, asthmas, &c., some patients, ac- cording to the quantity of watery vapour or nnucus exhaled from the lungs, will be bene- fited either by a dry air or the contrary. It is ■wrong, therefore, to lay down any general rule about a particular spot or climate, as its good or bad eftects will vary according to the state of the disease in each particular patient. See Dbainage and VentilatjiON. AITCHBONE. See Beef. AIX-LA-CHAPELLE, celebrated for its medicinal water, is a town of Westphalia. This water, like that of Harrowgate, in Yorkshire, contains sulphur and alkaline ingredients in proportions unusually large, rendering it bitter and otherwise nauseous to the taste. It may be bathed in of a temperature varying from 112° to 140°, and is so employed in diseases of the skin, rheumatic affections, and weakness arising from palsy. If drank, the quantity must at first be small, and only under the advice of medical practitioners, who prescribe it to patients suffering under diseases of the di- gestive organs, arising from luxurious living. Aix-la-Chapelle water maybe made artificially as follows. Take Water 6 galls. Solution of sulphuretted Ii3'clrog8a . . i gall. Common salt 433 grains Bicarbonate of soda . . . . 177 do. Chloride of calcium, or bleaching powder 45 do. Glauber salt 90 do. Chloride of magnesium . . , . 12 do. Mix the sulphuretted hydrogen solution with i gallon of the water; dissolve the five last- named ingredients in the remaining 5|- gallons of water; mix all together; impregnate with car- bonic acid by a soda-water machine, and bottle tightly. ALABASTER, or Plaster of Paris, is well known by its employment for taking casts of statues and other figures. If these are pur- chased in a polished state, nothing more is needed than to brush them over once or twice with a strong solution of isinglass, which, when dry, gives them the appearance of marble, and renders them much less liable to disfigurement by dust. To Bronze Alabaster. I Prepare the sur- face by sizing it over once or twice, and, when dry, touch the prominent parts of the figure with bronze No. 1, and the remainder with bronze No. 2; then soften down the lines of mixture of the two paints with a badger's hair tool. Bronze 1. Grind equal parts of Dutch metal and the following paint together, and thin the mixture with a little oil or turpentine. Bronze 2. Grind Prussian blue, verdigris, and ochre, separately with oil; then mix them together in such proportions as will produce a bronze green colour. II. Touch over the prominent parts of the figure with Bessimer's gold paint, or, instead thereof, use gold or Dutch leaf; then cover the remainder of the figure, as before, with the paint No. 2. To Join Alabaster. Ornaments of ala- baster or plaster may be joined together by means of a little white of egg, thickened with finely-powdered quicklime, or by a mixture of newly-baked and finely-powdered plaster of Paris, mixed up with the least possible quantity of water. To Polish Alabaster. The object received in the rough state from the hands of the sculptor or turner is rubbed with fiiaely-powdered pumice- stone, or dried shave-grass [equisetum) and water, and afterwards with a paste formed of finely- powdered and sifted slaked lime and water. The rough polish thus produced is then brought up, and finished off by friction with finely- powdered talc, or French chalk, until a satiny lustre is produced. A LA-MODE BEEF. See Beef. ALARUM, a term employed to signify any instrument or contrivance for the purpose of awakening persons from sleep at a certain hour, or of alarming them when exposed to danger. In the former sense it is generally a part of clockwork, and deserves here no further notice; but, in the latter, we strongly recommend the utility of alarums to every family, whether living in towns or in solitary situations in the country. Many ingenious suggestions have been de- vised for affordiug security to the industrious against the attempts of housebreakers: the most common of these are hanging bells to the win- dows, or larger bells and rattles kept in readiness for giving early notice to the police, or to the neighbour whose aid is required. In the year 1771 Mr. Henry invented a curious alarum, which was highly approved of by the head of the London police. Sir John Field- ing. All burglaries being perpetrated at night, this piece of mechanism deserves peculiar en- couragement. On being fixed up by a bell- hanger, with wires fastened to the windows and doors, it will, upon the least attempt to break into the house, go off with a noise sufficient to awaken the family. Another alarum is now employed which causes a similarly arousing noise by detonating powder. ALCOHOL. The name now usually given to pure spirit of wine. It is employed for dis- solving resins to make varnishes, and for making essence by adding to it an essential oil, such as of lemon, rose, &c.; to make medicinal tine tures; to fill the tubes of thermometers required[ 7 ] ALE ALE for registering very low degrees of cold (for it lias never yet been frozen); for burning in lamps under silver tea-kettles and other utensils where a rapid beating and the absence of smoke are desirable. It forms the intoxicating ingredient of all fermented liquors, the chief of which and their sources is given by Dr. A. T. Thompson in the following table:— Names. Agua ardiente . A.rrack . . , Var. Mnhwah Arrack Tuba . . . Araka .... Araki .... Arika Brandy .... Var, Lati . . . Jtn/iia , . ItossoHo . , Troaler , Se/iis knyiivod/; Geneva. Hollands Var. Gin . . . Goldwasser . . Kirch wasser . . Maraschino . . Eum Var. Slnikaia irava Show-choo . Whiskey Ditto . . . Y-wer-a . . Vino meresel Materials from which they are Distilled. Pulque, the fermented juice of the agave . . . . [ Coarse palm sugar, named jaggery, fermented with the bark] ■j of the Mimosa leucophUa; also from rice and the fermented [ { juice of tlie palm ....... .j Flowers of the Bladhuca tree, Bassia hutyracea . . . Palm wine Koumis, fermented mare's milk Dates Fermented cow's milk, a variety of koumis . . . . ( Wine, figs, peaches, Persimmon apple, JDiospyros Virginiana, "1 \ mulherries, and sometimes other fruits . . . . / Eice Husks of grapes, mixed with aromatics .... A compound of brandy, ros-solis, and other plants . . . Husks of grapes, fermented with barley and rye . . . Lees of wine and fruit ........ Malted barley and rye, rectified on juniper berries Malted barley, rye, potatoes, rectified with turpentine . . I Wheat, barley, and rye, rectified with aniseeds, cinnamon, ] ( and other spices J Blahaleb cherry Maraska cheriy Cane sugar and molasses Maple sugar .......... A sweet grass .......... The lees of mandarin, a wine made from boiled iico . M alted and raw barley, rye, oats, and potatoes . . . Sloes ........... Tlie root of the Tee root, baked, pounded, and fermented . Distilled from pulque,the fermented juice of iheAyaveAmericana Countries producing them. Mexico. India. India. Philippine Islands. Tartary. Egypt. Tartary, Iceland. C Europe, Asia, N. and •j S.America; wherever ( wine is made. Si am. Dalmatia. Dantzic. On the Ehine. Scio. Holland. England. Dantzic. Switzerland. Zara, cap. of Dalmatia. W. Indies & S.America. North America. Kamtschatka. China. Scotland and Ireland. South of France. Sandwich Islands. Mexico. Alcohol unweakened by water, if swallowed in considerable quantity, is a poison. ALE, The superior beverage of the English people, a secondary one being porter, and the inferior small beer. The difference between ale and beer is merely in the strength, both being products of pale malt, and porter is, or ought to be, a product of brown or high-dried malt, made deeper in colour by sundry in- gredients. Ale in England is generally brewed with 5, 6, or 8 bushels of malt to the hogshead of 63 gallons, and 1 lb. of Kentish hops to every bushel of malt; the liquor or water being raised to 180° or 185°, and boiling the worts kept up for two hours. It is then fermented at 75°, and worked for two or three days. Small beer is generally made of one-third the quantity of malt, or from grains of the ale. Porter is seldom brewed by private persons, but in some of the largest establishments in the kingdom, and malt and hops are its professed bases, but its colour and flavour are altogether artificial. Gray states that 14 qrs. of pale malt, mashed at three times, with 28, 18, and 18 barrels of water, boiled with 1 cwt. of hops, and set with 36 lbs. of yeast, and cleansed with 4 lbs. of salt, will produce 34 barrels of good ale; or after the rate of 1 gallon and 1 pint for every gallon of malt. Strong ale-wort should be 1-lOth heavier than water, either by the hydro- meter or by weighing 10 parts against 11 parts; weak ale, l-16th; table beer, l-20th. Good porter is brewed with 7 qrs. of pale malt, 6 qrs. of amber malt, and 3 qrs. of brown malt, mashed at twice with 56 and 48 barrels, boiled with 113 lbs. of Kentish hops, tunned with 80 lbs. of yeast, and cleansed with 4 lbs. of salt and i\h. of flour. The produce is 56 barrels, or 32-gallons of porcer for 1 gallon of malt.—(Gray.) Six pounds of sugar is deemed equal to 1 bushel of malt in strength or body, and 1 lb. of coriander seed equal in intoxicating power. New beer is made to taste like stale by add- ing a little sulphuric acid or alum; and stale or sourish beer is made like new beer by add- ing powdered chalk or oyster-shells. The colouring used by brewers consists of brown sugar burnt till bitter, and then made into syrup with lime-water. Brewers also use bitters, consisting of extract of cocculus ludicus, extractALE [ 8 ] ALE of quassia, Spanish liquorice, and calcined sul- phate of soda ; also, muUum, consisting of extract of quassia and liquorice root, and bitter balls, made of powdered gentian, 8 lbs., extract of gentian, 4 lbs., and treacle to mix. When publicans are drawing reduced strong beer by mixing small beer, they add molasses to form a head, and extract of gentian to keep up the flavour; but by adding too much gentian they often make it too bitter, or by too much molasses very ropy. Many brewers meet the demand of the vulgar for an intoxicating power—the object to get drunk with the smallest quantity—by infusing opium, cocculus Indicus, nux vomica, tobacco, and poppy heads ; others, to render it pungent, add capsicum and grains of paradise, and then introduce ginger, coriander seed, and orange-peel, to disguise the new flavour. See Beer and Brewing. ALE (from Mangold Wurtzel). About 10 lbs. of the root to 1 gallon of water make good liquor; but with 15 lbs. to the gallon, excel- lent ale is produced; and the addition of 2 lbs. of treacle to 1 firkin will make a great improve- ment. One-third malt and two-thirds man- gold wurtzel liquor make capital ale. First, to mash and clean the roots, take off the top completely; scrape or pare off the outer rind; slice and boil them until soft and pulpy; squeeze the liquor from the pulp as much as possible, and then boil it again with about 6 ozs. of hops to 9 gallons, and work with yeast in the usual way. ALE (from Sugar). For 10 gallons the proper quantity of hops is 1| lb. On this quan- tity pour on 1 gallon of boiling water, or boil the hops in the water for about five minutes ; then, in the strained liquor, dissolve 14 lbs. of sugar, and mix in 1 pint of yeast of the best quality. Pour the whole into the cask ; it will soon begin to ferment; it will throw up its yeast through a cork-hole at the top. It will require three weeks or a month to complete the fermentation. For the last fortnight the cork may generally be kept in the hole; but it should, once every two days, be removed to give vent. When the fermentation appears at an end the cork may be permanently driven in, and in four days the ale will be fit for draught or for bottling. White sugar affords ales candy coloured; brown sugar imparts proportionate colour, and not so pure a flavour. Should colour an object, it may be communicated by the raspings of an over-baked loaf or by scorched treacle. The ale will 8ponta,neously fine itself. Hops are not the only bitter ; others can much more conveniently be procured in certain situations, as wormwood, powdered bitter oranges, gentian root, and rind of Seville oranges, will afford an excellent bitter, perhaps more wholesome than hops. ALE, BLACKBERRY. Take 2 bushels ot malt, and make it into strong ale, allowing J lb, of hops to it; when the wort is cold enough, put it up into your vessel with a little yeast, and the juice of three quarters of a peck of blackberries fully ripe, and ferment them alto- gether ; when it has worked sufficiently, stop it up close, and at six weeks you may bottle it, and in a fortnight after it will be fit to drink. ALE, CHINA. To 6 gallons of ale made of malt, add ^ lb. of China root, thinly sliced, and the same quantity of coriander seeds, bruised: hang these in a tiffany or coarse linen bag in the vessel till it has done working, and let it stand a fortnight before it is bottled. ALE, COWSLIP. Take to 1 barrel of ale 1 bushel of the flowers of cowslip, flowers picked out of the green part, and put them loose in the barrel, without bruising, into your ale when it has done working, and let it stand a fortnight before you bottle it; and when you bottle, put a lump of sugar in each bottle. ALE, EGG. Take to 12 gallons of strong ale 8 lbs. of lean beef, which must be cut into little bits, and half stewed with a little water; and when it is cold, let the gravy be put into the vessel of ale, and the fat be blown off; then let the beef with 12 eggs, their shells being only bruised, but the films not broken, 1 lb. of raisins, stoned, 2 nutmegs, a little mace and ginger, and 2 oranges, cut round, be put into a linen bag, and hang it in the barrel before it has done working; put in also 2 quarts of Malaga wine, and stop it up ; let it stand three weeks; then bottle it, and into every bottle put a clove and a lump of sugar. ALE, MULLED. Boil a quart of ale with sugar, and any spice according to taste; add wine, brandy, rum, or butter to your taste, and serve it with toast. ALE POSSET. Take a small piece of white bread ; put into a pint of ale made hot in a saucepan; when soft, take it off the fire and grate in half a nutmeg. Put in sugai' to your taste; then pour it into a china bowl, and put in by degrees a pint of white wine. Serve it up with toasted bread on a plate. ALE, POTATO. The potatoes are to be • grated to a pulp and mixed with boiling water, and some ground barley-malt is to be added. The liquid is to be hopped in the usual way, yeast added, and the fermentation induced. In Ireland excellent beer is brewed from pars- nips by a process like the foregoing, but no malt is used, and the bitter is hops. ALE, WELSH. Pour 42 gallons of hot water, but not quite boiling, upon 8 bushels of malt; covei", and let it stand three hours; mean- while infuse 4 lbs. of hops in a little water, and put the same into the tub; run the wort uponALE [ 9 ] ALI them, and boil them three hours; strain off the hops, and keep them for the small beer; let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough for the yeast, of which, whether of ale or that of small beer, put in 2 quarts; mix the whole thoroughly, and stir it often. When the wort has done fermenting, which will be about the second or third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise, and must be removed immediately, and the ale tunned as fast as it works out. Pour in a quart at a time, but gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long. Lay some paper over the bung-hole two or three days previously to stopping it up. ALE, WINDSOR. For a good imitation of Windsor ale take of the best pale malt, 1 bushel; of the finest hops that have been soaked all night in cold water, 1 lb.; of clarified honey and sugar, each 1 lb ; of liquorice root, well cut and bruised, J lb.; of grains of paradise, ground, ^ oz.; of orange-peel, J oz.; and of coriander seed, cinnamon, and angelica root, each 1 drachm. Brew the whole in the common way with three mashings, using bran - flour instead of that of grain, and a little salt in the cleansing. ALEBERRY is made by soaking and boiling stale bread or oatmeal in beer, ale, or porter: for children it is made of good small beer, or equal quantities of ale and water, and sweetened with sugar; and for others as they like it. It is an excellent supper for invalids and weekly children when milk does not agree with them; and in such a case it is better made of barleymeal. ALEGAR. Alegar is vinegar made by working good ale upon the cuttings of young shoots of vines, unripe grapes, or cheap raisins. ALIMENT is only another name for food. Though originally designed to be a blessing to mankind, as well as their support, food may, in many cases, be justly considered as a curse ; for we do not hesitate to affirm that the in- judicious conduct of parents and nurses during infancy and the early years of childhood lays the foundation of those numerous diseases which, at a maturer age, arise from indigestion, and have in many families become hereditary. The aliment of children ought to be adapted to their age and the strength of their digestive powers. Hence they ought by no means to be fed immoderately and promiscuously with every kind of food, as by this indulgence the first passages are distended, and their stomachs gradually acquire an unnatural craving for victuals, before the preceding meal is properly assimilated. Such conduct is particularly in- jurious during the first year of their age ; for, when their stomachs become more vigorous, they may be enabled by slow degrees to digest different kinds of victuals, the nature and pro- perties of which are extremely opposite, though excess in quantity is always hurtful. No food whatever that has been prepared for many hours should be given to children, especially after being warmed up, as it generates flatulence, heart- burn, costiveuess, and a variety of disorders which are equally painful and difficult to remove. Sudden changes from liquid to solid food are equally dangerous : one kind of aliment only should be given at each meal in moderate por- tions, and not a multiplicity of incongruoias mixtures in immediate succession, such as broth or soup, meat boiled or roasted, after taking milk, fruit, &c. All stimulating dishes prepared for adults, as well as beer, wine, spices, coffee, and other heating liquors, should be carefully withheld from children, as they often occasion the most afflictive complaints; for instance, eructations, vomiting, spasms, and convulsions, especially during dentition ; and if the hapless victims of indulgence survive that period, they become liable to other tormenting diseases, the most frequent of which are the scurvy, scrofula, and consumption. Under the present heading we shall only consider for adults the comparative nutritive qualities and degree of digestibility of various aliments. Information relative to the food appropriate to different temperaments will be found under the heading Diet. Dr. Kitchener justly observes that the best proofs of the nutritive qualities of food are a small quantity of it satisfying hunger, the strength of the pulse after it, and the length of time which elapses befoi'e appetite returns again. According to these rules the editor's own experience gives a decided verdict in favour of roasted or broiled beef or mutton as most nutritive; then game and poultry of which the meat is brown; next veal, lamb, and poultry of which the meat is white ; the fat kinds of fish, eels, salmon, herrings, &c.; and least nutritive the white kinds of fish, such as whiting, cod, soles, haddocks, &c. That fish is less nutritive than flesh, the speedy return of hunger after a dinner of fish is sufficient proof. When a trainer at Newmarket wishes to waste a jockey he is not allowed pudding if fish can be had. Crabs, lobsters, prawns, &c., unless thoroughly boiled (which those sold ready boiled seldom are) are very indigestible. Shell fish have long held a high rank in the catalogue of easily digestible and speedily restorative foods. Of these oysters certainly deserve the best character; but we think that they, as well as eggs, gelatinous substances, rich broths, &c., have acquired not a littJfi m.^i-p.ALM [ 10 ] ALK reputation for these qualities than they deserve. Oysters are often cold and uncomfortable to dyspeptic stomachs, unless warmed with a cer- tain quantity of pepper and good white wine. To recruit the animal spirits and produce strength there is nothing like beef and mutton; moreover, when kept till properly tender, nothing will give less trouble to the digestive organs, and more substantial excitement to the constitution. The writer has for some years dined prin- cipally upon plainly roasted or boiled beef and mutton, and has often observed that if he changes it for any other food for several days together that he suffers a diminution of strength, &c., and is disposed on such days to drink an additional glass of wine, &c. Howevei', the fitness of various foods and drinks, and the quantity of nutriment which they afford, depend very much upon how they are prepared, and as much on the inclination and abilities of the digestive faculties. ALKANET. This is the name given com- monly to the roots of Ancliusa tinctoria. It is employed to give a beautiful crimson colour to wax, lard, and oils, in the preparation of lip- salve and hair-oil. It is said that wine- merchants stain with it the corks of port-wine bottles to counterfeit age ; also, to colour spurious wines, as it imparts its colour to spirit of wine. ALKERMES. This liquor is much used in the South of Europe. The best is prepared at Santa Maria Novella, and the following is its composition:—Bay leaves, 1 lb.; mace, 1 lb.; nutmegs, 2ozs.; cinnamon, 2ozs.; cloves, 1 oz. Bruise and mix them ; put them into 3^ gallons of best brandy, and let them remain for three weeks in a 4-gallon stone bottle, closely corked and frequently shaken. It is best to distil over from this 3 gallons ; but it may only be strained through blotting-paper. Whichever mode is adopted, mix thoroughly with the clear liquor clarified syrup of kermes 18 lbs., and orange-flower water 1 pint. Bottle and cork tightly. ALLSPICE CAKES. Beat 3 eggs with \ pint of cream; stir it over the fire till warm; add 1 lb. of butter, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and 2 ozs. of allspice, carefully stirring in the different ingredients upon a very slow fire that the butter may be incorporated- without oiling. Pour it over 2lbs. of flour, and make it into a paste. Roll it out without flour to any thickness, and cut out the cakes any size ; put them into the oven upon a board covered with paper: this prevents them baking too quickly upon the hot oven-shelf. Cakes of all the different spices may be done in the same way, and coloured, as lemon yellow, rose red, &c. ALLSPICE, ESSENCE OF. Take ono drachm of the oil of pimento, and mix it gradually with 2 ozs. of strong spuit of wine. A few drops of this will flavour a pint of gravy or mulled wine. ALLSPICE, TINCTURE OF. Steep 3 ozs of bruised allspice, apothecaries' weight, in a quart of brandy for a fortnight, soaking it from time to time, and then pour off the clear liquor. It is excellent for gravies. ALMOND. The chief uses of almonds are in confectionery and pastry. They should be well chewed, since every piece is indigestible; they yield a considerable proportion, sometimes nearly half their weight, of oil by pressure. ALMOND, MILK OF. Sweet almonds, blanched, 1|- oz.; bitter almonds, 2 scruples ; loaf-sugar, -J- oz.; water, 2^ pints. Pound the almonds with the sugar to a very smooth paste, adding the water by degrees, and then strain through very fine muslin. The success of this preparation depends upon beating the almonds to a very smooth pulp, and mixing this pulp per- fectly with every little addition of water before any more water is added, It is used medicinally for diluting and correcting acrid humours. ALMOND BALLS. Sift fib. of sugar into 1 lb. of almond paste ; stir them over the fire till they grow stiff; flavour with a few drops of oil of lemon ; take it from the fire ; make it up into little balls ; beat some white of eggs to a froth ; roll them in it, and then in sifted sugar till they become covered, dry, and smooth ; shake them round and round in a pan that is hardly covered with the white of egg. A little amber should be put to them, or any other essence. Bake them in a slow oven. ALMOND BEVERAGE. Blanch the al- monds ; make them very crisp in the mouth of the oven, preserving them perfectly white, and reduce them into fiiie powder, with very white refined sugar, and serve in a glass basin along with iced w-ater. This may also be perfumed or acidulated by drying any essence into the sugar before it is pounded. ALMOND BISCUITS (1). Blanch and pound \ lb. of sweet almonds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine sugar ; then beat them up, for a quarter of an hour, with 1 oz. of flour, the yolks of 3 eggs, and 4 ozs. of fine sugar, adding afterwards the white of 4 eggs whipped to a froth. Have ready some paper moulds, made like boxes, about the length of two fingers, square; butter them within, and put in the biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities of flour and powdered sugar. Bake in a cool oven, and when the biscuits are done of a good colour take them out of the papers. Almond Biscuits, Bitter, are made in the same manner with this difference, that 3 osss.[ n ] ALM ALM of bitter almonds must be added to 1 oz. of sweet almonds. ALMOND BISCUITS (2). Take 8ozs. of sweet and as many bitter almonds, 15 whites and 8 yolks of eggs, 2 ozs. of flour and 2 lbs. of powdered sugar ; pour boiling water on your almonds, and almost im.mediately afterwards turn that away, and pour cold water on them ; rub off the skins one by one with a napkin; then pound them to a paste in a mortar, moisten- ing them with the whites of 2 eggs; beat the 15 whites to a snow, and the 8 yolks with half the quantity of the sugar, and then mix them with the almond paste. Put the remainder of the sugar into a basin ; sift some flour over it; stir the mixture till all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, and pour it into small paper cases. Glaze them with the sugar aiid flour sifted over them. Bake them in a pretty Avarm oven. ALMOND BISCUITS (Small). Beat up the yolks of 3 eggs, for ten minutes, with 4 ozs. of powdered sugar and 1 oz. of bitter almonds well pounded; then add 1 whole egg, and beat up five minutes longer; whip the whites to a strong froth; mix with them oz. of fine-sifted flour ■with the yolks; work this paste well, and then pour it into small, well-buttered, moulds, melon shaped; glaze them; sprinkle them with pow- dered sugar, and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in a moderate oven. ALMOND BISCUITS (Souffles). Blanch i lb. of sweet almonds; cut them into dice, and dry them in the oven ; make a glaze with the whites of 2 new-laid eggs; mix the almonds, and add a pinch of crisp orange flowers to this, and put it into very small paper cases. Do not fill them above half full, as they rise considerably in the oven, and would otherwise fall over, and spoil their appearance. Bake them in a moderately heated oven. As soon as they are pretty firm they are done. ALMOND BREAD. Take 1 lb. of the best almonds; slice them across; beat and sift 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, and strew it over the almonds as you cut them, stir- ring them frequently to prevent them sticking together. When all the sugar is used, put them into an earthen basin with a few caraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dissolved in rose water and strained), 3 grains of musk and ambergris mixed in fine sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a very light froth, and 2 spoonsful of fine flour. When well mixed, lay them on wafers the size of macaroons; open with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three pieces stick together; the quicker you lay them the better they will look; put them into a well-heated oven, taking care they do not scorch ; when half baked take them out, wash them with the white of an egg beaten to a froth; grate a little fine sugar over them, and bake them about half an hour longer. ALMOND BUTTER. Put 1 pint of cream on a slow fire, with 8 eggs well beaten and strained ; stir them one way till they are ready to boil; put in 1 glass of rich sweet wine, and continue stirring it till it comes to a curd; strain off the whey; pound the curd with 2 ozs. of almond paste and 3 ozs. of sugar; put it into potting-pans or moulds. To be eaten with bread. ALMOND CAKE (1). Take 8 ozs. of Jordan and 1 oz. of bitter almonds ; blanch and pound them very fine ; then beat in with the almonds the yolks of 8 eggs, and whisk up the whites to a solid froth; then take 8 table- spoonsful of sifted sugar, 5 spoonsful of fine flour, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel and pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingredients. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter, fill it with the mixture, and bake it of a light colour. ALMOND CAKE (2). Put 1 gill of flour on a pie board, and make a hole in the middle to receive a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, ^ lb. of fine sugar, and 6 ozs. of sweet almonds pounded very fine ; knead the whole and form it into a cake; bake and glaze it with sugar and a hot salamander. ALMOND CAKE (3). Weigh 3 eggs in their shells ; take the same weight of flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated loaf sugar. Pound with these ingredients 3 ozs. of sweet almonds, blanched; add a little grated lemon- peel or orange-flower water, and the whites and yolks of eggs. Continue pounding till the whole forms a smooth paste. Butter the boltom of the baking-pan and put in the cake. This cake may be served hot or cold with grated sugar over it. ALMOND CAKE (Small). One pound of butter beaten to a cream, ^ lb. of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, ^ lb. of dried and sifted flour, and the same quantity of blanched sweet almonds, cut into small bits, 1 well-beaten egg, and a little rose water. Must be mixed well together, and with a spoon dropped upon wafer paper or tins, and then baked. ALMOND CANDY. Blanch 1 lb. of new Jordan almonds and cut them very thin, length- Vv'ays ; put them into 1 lb. of clarified sugar to crisp them; stir them over the fire till boiled to a dryish froth; then take them off and keep stirring till the sugar is dry, like sand ; then sift it so that the almonds may be left. Divide them into four parts to colour them, one part red, the second yellow, the third green, and the fourth left white, as they come from the sugar. To colour the first, soak a small quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and lay your almondaALM [ 12 ] ALM in it; do the same witli a little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and spinach juice for the green. Place the coloured almonds on a sieve in a stove; when dry mix all together, adding the white ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould -will require to soufBe; put it in, and when the almonds are quite dry, garnish the surface of the sugar with them. Do not, however, lay them too thick, and just press them down with a fork; put the mould into a mode- rate oven for five hours; then drain it well, and in another two hours it may he taken from the mould. ALMOND CHEESE. Prepare a posset of white wine and cream; beat the curd with a little rose water and a sufficient quantity of almond paste; sweeten and rub them together; set it over a hot hearth; press it into a mould with a group of figures; turn it out when cold; sift sugar over it, to which may be added rasped almonds or citron. Serve it on cream or upon jelly laid under it. It is beautiful. ALMOND CHEESECAKE. Take i lb. Jordan almonds ; lay them in water all night. The next morning blanch them in cold water; then take tliem out and dry them in a clean cloth; beat them very fine in a little orange- flower water; then take 6 eggs, leave out 4 whites, with a little beaten mace; beat them well in a marble mortar. Take 10 ozs. of fresh butter, melt it, add a little grated lemon-peel, and put them in the mortar with the other ingredients; mix all well together, and fill your patty pans, having lined them with thin puff paste. ALMOND CONSERVE. Blanch and cut 6 ozs. of sweet almonds into small sti'ips; lay them on paper, and put them into an oven. When they are brown take them out, and throw them into 2 lbs. of sugar boiled until rather frothed; stir the mixture well until it begins to blow, and then pour it into paper cases or moulds. ALMOND CREAM. Put 1 pint of milk and 1 pint of cream, with a small bit of lemon- peel, into a stewpan to boil very gently for twenty minutes. In the meanwhile blanch and pound very fine 3 ozs. of sweet almonds; then take the milk and cream from the iire, into which, while hot, stir the pounded almonds with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs and clarified sugar (boiled until browned) enough to sweeten it; then put the whole into a tammy cloth, and with a wooden spoon well rub and squeeze it through. Do this a second time; then squeeze into the cream 2 ozs. of well- clarified isinglass, the whole being together in a basin. Have your mould ready. ALMOND CREAM DROPS. Blanch and finely pound i lb. of almonds; put them into 1 quart of sweetened cream, and boil; add 9 eggs and a little flour; beat it very smooth with orange or rose water (a drop or two of the essence will answer); sift flour upon paper, and drop them like almond biscuit; sift sugar over and bake them in a quickish oven. Take care they do not run together. They may be of different colours and flavours. ALMOND CREAM (for the Hands). Blanched almonds, 4 ozs.; white of ] egg ; equal parts of spirit of wine and rose water, enough to make the other two ingredients into a thick cream. Pound the almonds to a fine paste; then add the white of egg; mix thoroughly, and then by degrees add the spirit and rose water. Used to prevent chapped hands and soften the skin. ALMOND CUSTARD. Blanch and beat fine 4 ozs. of almonds with 1 spoonful of water; beat 1 pint of cream with 2 spoonsful of rose water, and put to them the yolks of 4 eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness, bat not to boil; pour it into cups. ALMOND FLAVOURING. Mix i oz. of essential oil of bitter almonds in ^ pint of spirit of wine. Used as are bay leaves and laurel leaves to give a flavour to custards and other confectionery. A few drops only are required to a large quantity of confectioneiy. It is dan- gerous if used too freely. ALMOND FLUMMERY. Boil 3 ozs. of hartshorn shavings in 2 quarts of spring water ; let it simmer six or seven hours, till half the water is consumed; strain it through a sieve ; beat ^ lb. of almonds very fine with a quantity of orange-flower water; mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar with it; strain it. ALMOND FRAISE. Blanch 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, and steep them in 1 pint of cream, 10 yolks, and 4 whites of eggs; take out the al- monds, and pound them fine in a marble mortar; then mix them again in the cream and eggs; put in sugar and grated bread, and stir them all together; then put some fresh butter into the pan; let it be hot, and pour it in stirring it in the pan till they are of sufiicient con- sistence, and when enough, turn it into a dish; strew sugar over it, and serve it up. ALMOND FRITTERS. Pounds lb. of sweet almonds, and 6 or 8 bitter ones, all blanched, orange flowers, chopped lemon-peel, sugar in proportion, a handful of flour, and 2 or 3 whites of eggs ; pound altogether some time, adding a few drops of water or more whites of eggs to make it of a proper suppleness to roll into little balls ; strew a little fine sugar powder upon them when ready to serve. ALMOND GINGERBREAD. Beat i lb.pared au casse, and roll them in white or in any 4 ozs. of crumbs of bread ia l^piut of cream, I [ 13 ] ALM ALM of Wancliecl almonds with thin gum-water, a few drops of lemon-juice, a little powdered cinnamon, and some ginger, finely grated and seered to give it a brown colour; sweeten and smooth it well; roll it out thin, and cut it into squares; dry it in a stove or before the fire. ALMOND ICING (for Beide Cake). The whites of 6 eggs, 1^ lb. of double-refined sugar, 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, blanched and pounded with a little rose-water; mix altogether, and whisk it well for an hour or two; lay it over the cake, and put it into the oven. ALMOND MACAROONS (Bitter). Take 1 lb. of blanched bitter almonds ; rub them well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste with the whites of 3 or 4 eggs; then put them into an earthen pan with 3 lbs. of powder sugar; mix them well together, and, if the paste should be too dry, moisten it with white of egg; drop it on sheets of paper in lumps about the size of a walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. ALMOND MACAROONS (Sweet) are done in the same way; but 2 lbs. of sugar are sufficient for 1 lb. of almonds. ALMOND MARMALADE (Green). Take the down from green almonds; boil them till tender; throw them into cold water, and then set them to drain; break and pass them through a sieve ; put the marmalade on the fire to dry it, and for each pound put 1 lb. of sugar and i pint of water; boil and skim it until, on dipping year finger first in cold water, then in the sugar, it comes off clean when you put it in the water again; add the marmalade; heat, but not boil, both together, and then put it into pots. ALMOND MILK. Take 6 ozs. of sweet almonds and 1 pint of milk; 4 drachms of orange-flower water and 5 ozs. of sugar; blanch and pound the almonds to a very smooth paste, moistening them occasionally with a few drops of milk; when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk and mix them well, and boil it till reduced to half; then let it boil up once more ; let it cool, and serve. ALMOND MILK SOUP. Take ^Ib. of sweet almonds; put them on the fire with some water until near boiling ; then blanch and put them into fresh water ; drain and pound them. Boil 1 pint of water, a little sugar, salt, cinna- mon, coriander, and lemon-peel, for a quarter of an hour, and rub the almonds through a sieve to this. Lay some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and pour the milk of almonds on it as hot as possible without boiling. ALMOND NONPAREILS (Green). Drain some green almonds that have been preserved in brandy; dip them, one by one, in sugar pre- other coloured nonparlels, and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. ALMOND PASTE. Blanch 2 lbs. of sweet almonds and soak them in cold water for twelve hours; then dry them in a napkin and pound a quarter of them to a very fine paste with a little water and lemon-juice; pass them through a sieve, and then pound the remainder lb. at a time). When all are done, mix them with 1 lb. of sifted sugar; place them over a gentle fire, stirring it continually until the paste will flow from the spoon; then pour it into a mortar, and when it becomes lukewarm, pound it again with 1 oz. of gum dragon, previously dissolved in a glass of water and strained, the juice of 2 lemons, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar. As soon as your paste is of proper consistence, take it out and lay it on the slab, sprinkled first with sugar; divide your paste into three parts, and colour each part according to your fancy. The coloming or dyes are made of the same materials as are used for almonds, ALMOND PASTE (Coloured). Divide the above paste upon the slab for all the shades. For red, mix it with a little infusion of cochi- neal ; for yellow, saffron; green, spinach, and the other intermediate colours. ALMOND PASTE (for the Hands). See Almond Cream. ALMOND-AND-FLOUR PASTRY. Take 1 lb. of flour, f lb. of sugar, and ^ lb. of butter, a little salt, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, with orange or rose flower water; mix all together; work it well and leave it; give it two or three turns, and cut it into leaves, stars, lozenges, shells, &c.; glaze and rasp almonds over them, and give them a moderate oven; serve, piled on dishes, or on napkins, in second courses. They may be mingled, or coloured, or strewed with flour powders, sliced almonds, citron, or cur- rants, and the powders perfumed by a drop of any of the essences, and named by them, as rose, citron, almond pastry, &c. They may also be coloured. These little entremets should be made as perfumed as possible. When musked they re- quire great management. When puddings or pasties are lined to be turned out in ornamental paste, ornaments may be made of a paste without butter, composed of flour, whites of eggs, and sugar, or the remains of any other paste, mixed with fruit, boiled rice, or the mould powdered with fine crumbs, or any of the small Italian pastes. Ornaments of this kind, which cost little and are not much trouble, give such a finish to dishes that the cook ought to practise them laily till she can execute them well. ALMOND PUDDING (Baked). SteepALM ALM [ i 'i 3 or grate the bread ; then beat ^ lb. of blanched almonds very fine till they become a paste, with 2 tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water ; beat up the yolks of 8 eggs and the whites of 4 ; mix all well together ; put in a ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and stir in 3 or 4ozs. of melted butter; put it over the fire, and keep stirring until it is thick; lay a sheet of paper at the bottom of a dish, and pour in the ingredients. Bake half an hour. ALMOND PUDDING (Boiled). Blanch and beat 1 lb. of sweet almonds with a little rose water; mix 1 lb. of bread, grated, a little nutmeg, ^ lb. of butter, and the yolks of 6 eggs ; boil 1 pint of cream, coloured with a very little saffron; add it to the eggs and a little flour; knead it well, and then put in the almonds, beating it up till all are mixed together. Boil it for half an hour in a buttered cloth. ALMOND PUDDING (in Cups). Beat or mix 6 ozs. of sweet almond paste with the paste of a few bitter, 4 ozs. of very nice butter, 3 eggs, or 3 yolks and 2 whites, ^ gill of rich cream, a small glass of sweet wine, with any spice and sugar. A bit of paste maybe doubled over the mouths of the cups ; fill them half, or, if to be turned out, butter them. ALMOND PUDDING (Scotch). Sweeten and boil 1 pint of cream; add 5 yolks with a little almond paste; put in some coriander seed ; bake it in a lined and bordered dish. ALMOND PUFFS. Blanch 2 ozs. of sweet almonds and beat them fine with orange-flower water; whisk the whites of 3 eggs to a high froth; strew in a little sifted sugar; mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and add more sugar till it is as thick as paste; lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool oven. ALMOND RICE CUP PUDDING. Mix ^Ib. of almond paste with 1 pint of cream ; mix in 2 spoonsful of ground rice and a little essence of lemon ; let it cool and add the yolks or whites, according to the stiffness wanted, of from 2 to 4 eggs. If it be turned out, put some citron chips in the bottom of the cup. If to be served in the cups, lay some on the top; dip the cups in water before the pudding is put in. Thej' look beautiful hogged over with almonds or pistachio nuts, and served in coloured cream; or the pudding coloured and served in white cream, or in broken jelly. ALMOND TART. Blanch and beat i lb. of any of those nuts'with orange-flower water, a musk plum or two, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat 10 yolks; thicken them over the fire with 1 pint of cream or milk ; mix all together with some grated Naples biscuit; put it into a sheeted dish, and, when baked, stick it over with whatever nuts it is made of cut in fillets. ALMOND TART (Gkeen). Pull almonds feom the tree before they shell; scrape oS the down with a knife, and put them into a pan of cold water as fast as they are done ; then put them into a skillet with more spring water over a very slow fire till they simmer. Change the water twice, and let them lie in the last till tender ; put them between two dry cloths, and press them dry. Make a sj-rup with double-refined sugar, and put them to simmer a little; repeat this the next day; put them in a stone jar, and cover them closp, as they turn black if exposed to the air. The yellower they are when in the water the greener they will be afterwards. Put them into a sugar crust; lay the lid close, and cover them with syrup, and bake in a moderate oven. ALMONDS, BITTER, resemble sweet al- monds in appearance. They yield a large portion of sweet oil; but the pulp after pressure is in- tensely bitter. To many animals and birds they are a fatal poison. They are used in making ratafia and cherry brandy. The oil and emulsions are used in medicine, and soap for washing the hands is made from them and sweet almonds. By confectioners they are employed to give flavour. The principle which gives that flavour, and also to the leaves, is prussic acid, a powerful poison, and this renders a large draught of noyau or other similar cordial often injurious or fatal. Bitter almonds should always be used with great caution. ALMONDS, BLANCHED. Blanched al- monds are almonds steeped in boiling water till the skin comes off by pressing between the fingers. The hot water is then strained away, and the almonds, after being put in cold water, are peeled and dried till they are brittle. ALMONDS, BURNT, or Pralines. Sift the dust from some of the best Jordan almonds; rub them well with a cloth ; then put them into a preserving or stewpan, either with syrup or their own weight of sugar, and a little water. Keep them on the fire, and stir them continually till they crackle or the sugar changes colour; then take them o-rf; stir them gently to collect the sugar ; lay them on a sieve separately, and let them remain about two hours to dry in a moderate heat; after which prepare another pan of boiling syrup. Put them in again, and give them a second coating to make them perfectly white. To make Red Burnt Almonds, or Pealines. Mix about a tea-cupful of water with some cochi- neal, and put half of it into the first boiling syrup, and the other half, with a little more cochineal, into the second. ALMONDS, CRISPED. The almonds may Le rough or blanched, half and half, or in slices; boil IJlb. of sugar to nearly a candy height; put in 1 lb. of almonds, and keep stirring con- stantly with a long wooden spatula till the sugarALT C 15 ] is nearly dry ; then put it on a stronger fire till it flows, and take it off the fire, and keep work- ing it to the sides of the pan to granulate and make the almonds take the sugar ; do not let it burn ; turn them out of the pan and separate them. Some of the blanched may be coloured before they are put into the sugar, and some of them after, with cochineal and other colours. ALMONDS, PICKLED (Green). Boil vine- gar according to the quantity of pickle you wish to make ; skim it well; add to it mace, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper; cut your almonds, which should be quite young and soft, in halves ; put them into jars and pour the vinegar over them. Take care to have in each jar sufficient liquor to cover the almonds. ALMONDS, PRESERVED (Geeen). Put some water into the saucepan with two handsful of bran, and when it has boiled up twice, throw in some green almonds ; let them boil up once, then take them outwith a skimmer and rub them well in your hands to take off the down ; as you do this, throw them into cold water; then boil them in water till on pricking them the pin easily enters and they shrink; then clarify some sugar, lib. to lib. of fruit ; boil up the syrup four or five successive days, morning and evening, without the fruit. When cold pour it over the fruit in jars. ALMONDS, SMOOTH. Dry them in a preserving pan, and throw in about a gill of smooth, boiled sugar, and stir and turn the almonds in it, leaving them to dry, and adding as many coatings as is judged necessary. ALOES. Socotorine aloes, which is the most esteemed, is brought, wrapped in skins, from the island of Socotora in the Indian Ocean. It is dark coloured, of a glossy, clear surface, and in some degree pellucid; in mass of a yellowish-red colour with a purple cast; fracture unequal; easily pulverisable; when reduced to powder, of a bright golden colour. It is hard and friable in the winter, somewhat plastic in summer, and growing soft between the fingers. Its taste is bitter and disagreeable, though accompanied with some aromatic flavour; the smell is not very unpleasant, and somewhat resembles that of myrrh. It is said not to produce haemorrhoidal affections so readily as Barbadoes aloes. Medical use. Aloes in doses of two grains or less is a stomachic, and with this intention is an ingredient of the various digestion pills. In larger doses it acts as a purgative, but its opera- tion is tardy, first manifesting itself eight or twelve hours after it has been taken. It is therefore frequently given at bed-time. It also acts in a small dose, and hence it is to be used whenever we wish to increase the secretion of bile, and correct the torpidity of the liver. It is particularly adapted to persons who lead a sedentary life. Aloes is a bitter, stimulating purgative, exert- ing its action chiefly on the rectum. In doses of from five to fifteen grains it empties the large intestines, without making the stools thin, and likewise warms the habit, quickens the circulation, and promotes the uterine and haemorrhoidal fluxes. If given in so large a dose as to purge effectually, it often occasions an irritation about the anus, and sometimes a discharge of blood. It is frequently employed in female cases, and of the haemorrhoidal discharge ; but it is particularly serviceable in habitual costive- ness, to persons of a phlegmatic temperament and sedentary life, and where the stomach is oppressed and weakened. Aloes is also used as an anthelmintic, both given internally and applied to the abdomen in the form of a plaster. Dissolved in alcohol, it is employed to check haemorrhages in recent wounds, and as a deter- gent in ulcers. From its warmth and activity it is accused of causing colic pain, bloody stools, and other haemorrhages, and has been forbidden in persons of a plethoric, nervous, and diy habit of bodj% in pregnant women, and in fevers and inflam- mations generally; yet it is often given in these with advantage. Dose. The effect of aloes is by no means proportioned to its dose, so that a few grains operate nearly as well as several times the number. Five, ten, or fifteen grains may be given in a single dose as a purgative, but against a costive habit two or three grains will generally suffice. Corresponding quantities may be given in solution, and the action is more speedy Some foreign therapeutists assert, but connected with a hypothesis as to its mode of action, that aloes has absolutely no effect when thi'own into the rectum as a clyster. ALTERATIVES are medicines which pro- duce a beneficial change in the patient's health without causing any strong evacuation, either by perspiration or other discharge. They do not produce any immediate effect, but gradual])' improve the health by repeated doses. Almost every kind of medicine can be so administered as to be an alterative. Thus 10 grains of ipecacuanha will produce vomiting, but ^ grain taken an hour before a meal daily for several days successively will increase the taker's appe- tite and improve his digestion. To many, pre- parations of mercury in full doses are poison- ous, but in minute doses they relieve from diseases which render life miserable. Arsenic so deadly a poison, will often, when properly administered, remove ague, and the most ago- nising of headaches Sarsaparilla, quinine, andAMB ALU [ 16 ] even ctange of scene, and total change of diet, act as alteratives. A man is not ill, yet he is not well; he has deranged his functions by excess of some kind ; it matters not whether the excess be in study, food, or tobacco, the symptoms are the same. His sleep is disturbed; he wakes with a dry tongue, and perceives that the secretion from his kidneys is less and higher coloured than usual, and his skin is bloated, or dry and harsh. Small doses of some mercurial, or of ipecacu- anha, will permanently relieve him from these symptoms, as a little salt taken in the mouth will remove it at the time; but the return of the consequences of excess can only be avoided by not indulging in that excess. ALUM is a crystallised combination of alumina (pure clay), potash, sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), and water. It is extensively used in dyeing to fix a variety of vegetable colours which otherwise would speedily fade. Without it the Tyrian purple could not be obtained. It gives firmness to tallow in the manufacture of candles. It is employed in preparing cod and other fish for drying, as it prevents the common salt from becoming damp by absorbing moisture from the air. In tanning it gives firmness to the skins after they have become soft in the lime pits ; it is also used in other preparations of leather. It is used in preparing paper for the preservation of gunpowder, for it does not absorb moisture, yet it makes the paper difficult to take fire. It is also of great value to the calico printer. Wood soaked in alum water will not burn readily. Printers' cushions and calico manufacturers' blocks are rubbed with it to remove all greasiness. Alumed paper is also used in whitening silver and silvering brass without heat. Mixed with cream it promotes the forming of butter by churning. Added in small quantities to foul water, it renders it clear and tasteless in a very few minutes. Ten grains of alum and 30 grains of powdered charcoal, put in a linen bag and stirred about m a gallon of putiid water, will render it sweet and palatable. Crayons are usually made of the alumina ob- tained in fine powder from alum and afterwards united with the required colouring. It checks or prevents acetous fermentation, and for this purpose is mixed with their paste by bookbinders and others to prevent it becoming sour. It is also used for clearing thick wines and spirituous liquors. Bakers also use it in making bread. We have the following evidence from a baker examined before a Committee of the House of Commons: " Where alum is used half the quantity of salt will do. It makes the bread whiter and clearer to the eye. It is mostly used with inferior flour. To 10 bushels of flour 8 lbs. of salt should be added; if alum and salt are used, lib. of alum will go as far as iZlbs. of salt." Alum in Medicine is found to be powerfully astringent, and has been employed to stop internal bleeding and violent fluxes. The dose is from 5 to 20 grains. Boerhaave's astringent powder for the ague consisted of alum, and nut- meg, and Armenian bole, in 10-grain doses. In large doses it often excites nausea and acts upon the bowels. Nutmeg, or some other aro- matic, therefore, should be joined with it. Alum pills: powdered alum 5 grains, powdered nut- meg, 5 grains, extract of gentian enough to make them into a mass. Divide it into two pills. Alum gargle: infusion of roses, ozs. fluid, powdered alum 10 grains, syrup 3 ozs. fluid. Mi.'c and use as a gargle for relaxed throat. Ahan whey: boil ^ oz. of alum with 1 pint of milk, strain, and give a wine-glassful. Given in internal bleedings, plumbers' colic, and violent diarrhoea. Burnt alum is only alum with the water driven out of its crystals by heat. In this state it is used as a mild caustic to remove proud flesh from wounds. Roach alum has a pinkish tinge, usually given artificially to common English alum, which is quite as good. True Roach or Roman alum is imported from Eoccha, in Syria, and Tolfa, in Italy. AMBER is a hard, resinous substance, pos- sessing a subacid, resinous taste, and a fragrant, aromatic smell. It is the production of many countries, but chiefly from the shores of the Baltic Sea, between Konigsberg and Memel. It has also been found in various parts of England, especially in the clay and gravel-pits between Tyburn and Kensington, as well as behind St. George's Hospital, near Hyde Park Corner, where fine specimens of this concrete are occasionally discovered. Prussia possesses it in great abundance, and the king derives from this article a large annual revenue. Its most remarkable properties are that it at- tracts other bodies to its surface, such as paper, hair, wool, &c., and that it presents a luminous appearance in the dark. In its native form underground it resembles various substances, such as pears, almonds, peas, &c.; but, when broken, leaves, insects, and other small objects, frequently appear inclosed. Hence it has been supposed that amber was originally in a fluid state, or that from its exposui'e to the sun it became softened, so as to be susceptible of those impressions. As these insects are never found in its centre, but always near its surface, the latter seems the more probable conjecture. Animals of all kinds are extremely fond of it, and pieces are frequently discovered in their excrements. Several centuries before the Chris- tian era it was in high esteem as a medicine; and Plato, Aristotle, and other writers, havaAMB AME [ 17 ] commended its virtues. Among the Eomans it was valued as a gem, and in the reign of Nero brought in immense quantities to the capital, where it was highly prized by the fashionable ladies, who decorated themselves with trinkets made of that substance—a custom which is still prevalent in catholic countries, where it is con- verted into amulets, crosses, &c. As a medicine amber is at present but in little repute, though it is still given in hysteric affections, and in those diseases which proceed from debility. Formerly it was used in a variety of preparations, but of late an essential oil is the only form in which it is employed. Lastly, it constitutes the basis of several kinds of varnish. Beoken Amber is joined by smearing the surfaces of the fracture with linseed oil, press- ing them very tightly together, and heating the amber at the same time over a charcoal fire, or red-hot plate, enough to cause the surfaces to soften and unite without injuring the outer appearance. AMBER PUDDING. Put 1 lb. of butter into a saucepan with fib.of powdered sugar; when melted and well mixed together, add the yolks of 15 eggs, beaten, and as much candied orange as will colour and flavour it. Line the dish with paste for turning out, and when filled with the above lay a crust over as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten hot or cold. AMBER VARNISH for wood, or any other body not very pale coloured. It dries quickly, and is hard and durable. Heat ^ lb. of amber in an iron pot until it becomes nearly liquid ; then add 5 ozs. of pale, boiled, linseed oil. Stir until well mixed; then remove from the fire and add, when cooled down to a milk warmth, ^ pint of spirit of turpentine. Black amber varnish, used by coach makers, is made as the above, only 3 ozs. of asphaltum are melted with the amber. AMBERGRIS, or Grey Amber, is of an ash-grey colour, streaked with brownish yellow and white. It has an agreeable smell which improves by keeping, and is rendered still more strong by being mixed with a little musk. It is found floating on the sea, near the coasts of Africa, Brazil, and India, in masses usually small, but sometimes weighing as much as 100 lbs. It is generally believed to be a con- cretion formed in the stomach or intestines of the spermaceti whale {Physeter macrocephalus). When pure, it softens between the fingers, melts into an oil in a moderate degree of heat, and in a stronger one proves highly volatile. Slightly warmed it emits a fragrant odour, and when set on fire smells like amber. It dissolves, though with difficulty, in spirits of wine and essential oils, but not in those which are expressed from vegetables, nor in water. In Asia and part of Africa ambergris is not only used in medicine, and as an article of per- fumery, but, also, is applied to the purposes of cookery by adding it as a spice to several dishes. In this country it was formerly esteemed a cordial, and to be of great sei'vice in disorders of the head and nervous complaints ; but it now chiefly serves as an agreeable perfume, and is certainly free from many of those inconveniences which usually accompany substances of this description. Ambergris may be considered as genuine when it emits a fragrant smell, on thrusting a hot needle into its substance, and melts, like fat, of a uniform consistence. To every other perfume it is a valuable addi- tion, and is generally used in the form of an essence, or concentrated spirituous tincture. The following is the best ambergris essence for mixing with perfumes: — Beat together in a mortar 2 drachms of ambergris, the same quantity of white sugar-candy, 12 grains of musk, and 6 grains of civet; put the whole into a bottle with a stopper of ground glass, and pour upon it 4 ozs., by measure, of spirits of wine, 60° above proof. Place the stoppered bottle in water, heated to 100°, during twenty-four hours. While the solution continues warm, pour it from the sediment; remove this from the bottle and pour back the solution, keeping it always closely stopped with a piece of bladder tied over the stopper. This extract is much better for general use than the tincture of ambergris alone. Five or six drops will impart a noble odour to any article of perfume ; and the quantity here indi- cated will last any family a number of years, so small is the proportion required to impart the desired effect. Our forefathers used it in confectionery, and the following is one of their receipts:— AMBERGRIS CAKE. Mix a quarter peck of fine flour with 2 ozs. of quince marmalade, cut in slices, -^Ib. of fine sugar, and 10 spoons- ful of rose water. Beat them well together; then add i pint of yeast, 1 lb. of currants, picked and washed; cinnamon and mace, finely powdered, of each i oz.; 2 ozs. of candied orange-peel, cut very small. Mix all well together, and moisten the whole with 1 quart of milk and 10 eggs. Then add 1 drachm of ambergris, dissolved ready, in J pint of white wine; mix, form into a cake, and bake in a gentle oven. When baked ice it over with sugar. AMERICAN BUNS. Having mixed Hlb. of flour and i lb. of butter finely together, add 4 eggs, beaten to a high froth, 4 tea-cupsful of milk, i wine-glassful of brandy, and 1 wine- c[ 18 ] AME ANO glassful each of yeast, wine, and rose water. Sift in 4 wine-glassesful of flour, beat the lumps fine, and set the buns to rise for four hours on the tin on which they are intended to be baked. AMERICAN DOUGH NUTS. Two pounds of flour, fib. of sugar, to 1 lb. of butter, 6 eggs, 1 tea-spoonful pearl-ash, dissolved in a cup of milk. Spice to your taste. The more fat they are fried in the less they will soak. AMERICAN PUFFETS (for Tea oe Bbeakfast). One pint of cold milk (which has been boiled), 1 pint of home-made yeast, i lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, and 5 eggs, to be mixed into a stiff paste, or, rather, batter, which must be put into the baking-tins to rise, and, without taking out, be baked in them in the usual manner. AMMONIA, or volatile alkali, when combined with other bodies, is very generally useful. It may be obtained from almost allputrefying animal matters, but is now usually prepared from the refuse liquor of gasworks. It gives a beautiful violet-red colour to Lecanora tartarea and other mosses in preparing archil for the dyers , 5 or 6 drops of liquid ammonia added to, and well shaken in a bottle of new brandy are said to impart to it the softness and flavour of the finest old brandy. Ammonia in all its forms is useful as a manure if not used too strong ; it is the base of sal ammoniac (muriate of ammonia) so extensively used in the arts ; combined with vinegar it forms Mindererus's spirit (acetate of ammonia), much used as a medicine to promote perspiration; combined with carbonic acid it crystallises, and dissolved in water forms spirit of hartshorn, and not dissolved in water those crystals are the smelling salts of the lady's toilet, and are also used by confectioners to render their pastry light. Ammonia united with aqua-fortis (nitric acid) forms nitrate of ammonia, very useful as a " freezing mixture " for cooling wine, butter, and other articles. Fuller particulars will be detailed under those headings. Ammonia increases the pungent perfume of other bodies; it is always present in the air of privies, and perfumers expose their musk, and other odorous articles, to that air to increase their scent. So, to give pungency to snuff it is made to ferment slightly, because by the fermentation ammonia is produced ; and it is a curious fact that the odour of the best snufP may be desti-oyed by mixing with it a little tartaric acid, for this acid absorbs from the snuff its ammonia. The blue liquid in the glasses kept in chemists' shop-windows is made by mixing liquid ammonia with a solution of blue vitriol (sulphate of copper). AMMONIA, ACETATE OF. This is the Mindererus's spirit of the old chemists. It is given in a liquid form to promote perspiration to those suffering from fever or inflammation, warm, weak liquids, being taken at the same time to promote its action. On the contrary, if the person who has taken it walks in the cool air, it promotes the action of the kidneys. The usual dose is ^oz., by measure, in gruel or warm water. Twenty-five drops of acetate of ammonia in a glass of water are said to dissipate drunken- ness and remove headaches. One ounce of it mixed with 9 ozs. of water forms a cooling wash, or collyrium, often applied to inflamed eyes or evelids. "AMMONIA, CARBONATE OF. Chiefly used in crystals under the name of smelling salts. A dose of five grains is sometimes effec- tual ia removing acidity of the stomach. To make smelling salts: pound together very finely 1 drachm of sal ammoniac and 3 drachms of pure potash; add 15 drops of essence of lemon. Or, bruise the crystals of 2 drachms, of sesqui-car- bonate of ammonia, and add 10 drops of oil of verbena. Keep in a glass-stoppered bottle. The last-named preparation is the same as Godfrey's smelling salts. AMMONIA, MURIATE OF. Commonly called sal ammoniac. It is chiefly used by dyers, and for cleaning the sm'faces of metals prepara- tory to their being tinned. It is also used in preparing freezing mixtures. A lotion for chilblains is prepared by dissolving 1 oz. of sal ammoniac in ^ pint of water. ANALEPTIC PILLS (Dr. James's). Ana- leptic is a medical term for comforting and sus- taining. These pills are made of equal parts of James's powder, gum ammoniacum, and the pill of aloes with myrrh [pill rafi), which is a preparation kept by all chemists and druggists. Make into a mass with as much tincture of castor as neces- sary to enable it to be formed into pills. Divide into pills of 4 grains each; two to a dose; acting as a purgative and promoting perspiration. ANCHOVIES, FRIED. Make a paste of flour with 1 spoonful of oil and a little white wine; take care that the paste is not too wet. Having taken the salt from the anchovies, dip them in the paste, and fry them of a good colour. ANCHOVY. This fish is known to naturalists as Engraulus encrasicholus. It is about the size of the middle finger, bluish brown on the back, and silvery white on the belly. It abounds in the Mediterranean along the shores of Spain, Italy, and Greece ; and in the Atlantic on the coasts of France and Portugal. Considerable anchovy fisheries have been established along the coasts of Provence and Catalonia, but the most productive is at Gorgona, a small island near Leghorn. They are caught only during the night, being attracted near the boats by charcoal fires burning in them. If when theANO ANG [ 19 ] barrels are opened the fish are found to be small, firm, and round-backed, with a silvery skin, red flesh, and plump, compact form, they are probably true anchovies. If, on the contrary, they taper much towards the tail, are dark brown on the outside, and the flesh is pale and flabby, they are probably Sardines {Engraulus meletta), another Mediterranean species, and much in- ferior. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Wash your an- chovies carefully, and dry them after taking out the bones; then pound them in a mortar until they are reduced to a paste, and mix this paste thoroughly with double the quantity of fresh "buttiGr ANCHOVY ESSENCE. Take lib. of anchovies, 2 quarts of water, 2 bay leaves, a little whole pepper, a little scraped horse-radish, a little thyme, 2 blades of mace, 6 shallots, chopped small, 1 gill of port wine, half the rind of a lemon, 1 gill of catsup; boil them together for twenty minutes ; then rub them through a tammy cloth with a wooden spoon. When cold, put it into pint bottles; cork them close, and keep in a dry place. ANCHOVY OMELET. Wash the salt from a dozen anchovies, and lay them in cold water for a quarter of an hour; cut them in slips, and place them on thin slices of bread fried in oil; beat up a dozen eggs, and season them well; put some olive oil in a frying-pan, and, when it begins to boil, put in half the eggs to form the omelet. When done, place it on a dish, and lay the anchovy toast on it; then form the second omelet with the rest of the eggs, and put it over the toast. Serve with any sauce you please. ANCHOVY POWDER is made by beating equal weights of anchovies and wheat flour into a paste, rolling it out into thin cakes, and when dried reducing them to a fine powder in a mortar, and passing the powder through a sieve. It should be in bottles, well corked, and in a dry place. Sprinkle it on dry toast, after it has been buttered, by means of a dredger. ANCHOVY SALAD. Dress a young cos lettuce, as usual, garnished with eggs, boiled hard and sliced, and herbs, &c., cut small; add a dozen anchovies, well cleaned and cut into slips. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Pound 3 anchovies in a mortar with a little bit of butter; rub the whole through a double-hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, and stir what comes through into almost i pint of melted butter; or stir in 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. To the above many cooks add lemon-juice and Cayenne. Serve very hot. ANCHOVY TOAST. Bone and wash the anchovies; pound them in a mortar with a little fresh butter; rub them through a sieve, and lay them on the toast. You may add, while pound- ing the anchovies, a little made mustard and curry powder, or a few grains of Cayenne, or a little mace or other spice. It may be made still more savoury by frying the toast in clarified butter.—N.B. Keep your anchovies well co- vered. First, tie down your jar with a bladder moistened with vinegar, and then wiped dry; tie leather over that. When you open a jar, moisten the bladder, and it will come off easily. As soon as you have taken out the fish replace the covering; the air soon changes the colour of, and spoils anchovies. ANCLE, SPRAINED. &e Strains. ANDERSON'S SCOTCH PILLS. Barba- does aloes, 1 oz.; black hellebore root, jalap, and purified carbonate of potash, of each ^ drachm; oil of aniseed, 24 drops ; simple syrup enough to form the mass. Make into 6-grain pills ; one, two, or three to be taken as required. They are gently cathartic, and promote di- gestion. ANDOUILLES. See Calves' Chitterlings. ANGELICA CAKES. Take 4 ozs. of an- gelica powder and 2 lbs. of fine sugar; beat up the white of 1 egg, with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the consistence of cream cheese; dissolve the sugar in a skillet, and skim it; when it has boiled a little put in the angelica, and boil the sugar until well frothed; tlien take it from the fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten egg, and stir it quickly until the sugar rises; then stop, and when it has fallen again, stir it until it rises a second time. It may now be poured into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and sprinkled with sifted sugar. ANGELICA CANDY. Gather the young stalks of angelica in April; cut them in proper lengths ; lay them for some days in brine ; wash them in fresh water; boil them in a close- covered sweatmeat-pan till quite tender; string, scald, and simmer them again till green ; wipe and weigh them, and sift over them the same weight of double-refined sugar; let them remain in it for two days, and then boil them in it till clear; drain and boil the sugar again; put in the angelica for a moment; lay them to harden near the fire, or in an oven or stove. ANGELICA LIQUOR. Wash, scrape, and cut in small pieces 12 ozs. of fresh, or half the quantity of Bohemian angelica roots, and infuse them for a week in 6 pints of brandy and 1 pint of water, with 1 drachm of mace, 2 drachms of cinnamon, and 12 cloves. At the end of that time distil it; then dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in 3 pints of water; mix it with the liquor distilled over; strain it through a jelly-bag or filter it through blotting paper. ANGELICA RATAFIA. Strip the angelicaANI ANG [ 20 ] Btalks of their leaves, and cut ttem into small pieces, which put into the best brandy and water in the proportion of 8 pints of brandy and 4 pints of water to 1 lb. of angelica, and 4 lbs. of sugar; add ^ oz. of cloves and cinnamon mixed in equal proportions ; let it stand for six weeks, then filter and bottle it. ANGELICA TART. Pare and core some good apples, peel angelica stalks, and cut an equal quantity of each into small pieces; boil the apples with lemon-peel and sugar in sufficient water to cover them until reduced to a thin syrup; strain it, and then put it on the fire again with the angelica for about ten minutes. Lay a paste in the dish, and put layers of apples and angelica alternately till full. Fill up with syrup and bake. ANIMAL FOOD. Of the different classes of animals used for food, quadrupeds compose the greatest proportion, and there is no part of their bodies which does not contain nutri- tive parts, and that has not been used as food in some way or other. Even bones afford an alimentary jelly fit for human food. The largest portion of our aliment, however, is derived from the muscles of animals, or what is more strictly called the flesh, consisting of all the red, fibrous substance which covers the bones. It would seem that this is both the most nourishing and the most easily-digested of animal substances. The red colour arises from the blood of minute vessels which run in every direction among the fibres; but whether this is the cause of the red muscles being more nutritious is not well ascertained. Thence the flesh of quadrupeds is more largely consumed than that of any other class of animals; and, indeed, those in common use in most parts of Europe possess all the alimentary propeilies in the highest perfection. All animal flesh seems more or less stimulating; and, in general, the more so the darker its colour is; but it does not absolutely follow that it is also more nutritious. There is considerable difference in the qualities of muscular flesh, according to the size of the animal, and also according to its activity. The small, mountain sheep, for example, which has to encounter fatigue to procure its food, has flesh of a different quality and flavour from the large and lazy creature which feeds luxuriously and fattens rapidly in the rich pastures ot the plain country. The beef of the Western Islands, also, is more esteemed, on account of the same circumstance, than that of the fat and brawny oxen which we see in the London markets. It is for this rea- son, we have no doubt, that the flesh of the horse, the rhinoceros, and elephant, is not used as food, except in cases where otlier food is not to be procured. In the circumstance of activity altering the qualities of flesh, we may be allowed to instance the superiority of venison to beef in flavour and tenderness, and easiness of digestion. The age of animals is another circumstance which has great influence on the qualities of their flesh. The flesh of young animals is composed of less rigid fibres, and has fewer vessels which carry red blood running through it; and, besides, it has less of the peculiar flavour of its particular species than the flesh of older animals. Gelatine is more abundant in the young, and fibres in the old; hence the former is more bland and tender. Veal and lamb, for example, are more tender and gela- tinous than beef or mutton. Sucking pigs, chickens, and ducklings, are also much more delicate than full-grown animals. The beef of an old cow, however well fed, is quite tough and unpalatable, while that of a young heifer is much relished. Although, however, very young ani"mals be so much more tender, yet they are insipid and flabby. In the case of pork, age is not required as in other sorts of butcher's meat to mellow the fibres. It is an aliment contain- ing much nourishment; but to some palates its flavour is disagreeable, though by most people it is relished. It was much used by the ancient athletse as half-raw beefsteaks are now by our men of the fancy. Sucking pigs are killed when three weeks old; and for pork, pigs are killed from six to twelve months old. It requires them to be older for making brawn. The flesh of young venison is not so good as when four years old or more, though that of the fawn is very tender and succulent. Veal is reckoned not so good when killed before it is eight or ten weeks old. The most remarkable quality of flesh of this kind is, its almost wholly dissolving in boiling water, forming in the warm state a bland and gelatinous soup; and when cold, concreting into a tremulous, transparent jelly. It is less animalised, or more properly speaking, contains less animal fibre than almost any other flesh; hence its tendency to become acid when made into broth and jelly, which is not the case with beef and mutton broth The parts of older animals which contain a larger portion of gelatine are in this respect similar to young flesh. Cowheel and sheep's head are well-known instances. It may be remarked that such food is less nutritious, and, unless very much boiled, is less digestible than muscular flesh; but as it is also more light and less stimulating, it is frequently given to delicate constitutions which can take nothing stronger. Tripe is intermediate between what we have just described and the muscular flesh of grown animals, insomuch as there is in the stomach of ruminant animals a considerable proportion of vessels transmitting red blood, and of muscularAK'I ANI [ 21 ] fibres, and accordingly it is to he inferred that tripe is more nutritive. It h certain it is more palatable and savoury. As to other parts of animals, which are abundantly furnished with red blood, though destitute of muscle, we cannot speak so de- cidedly. Some of the glands are coarse and rank flavoured from the peculiar secretions which they produce, and are only used by poor persons; others are esteemed as delicacies, and seem not to be unwholesome. As examples of the latter we may mention the sweetbread, or pancreas, one of the glands belonging to the digestive organs; and the liver of some species of birds and of young quadrupeds. The liver of the goose is reckoned a great delicacy in Germany and Sicily, and the inhabitants there have a cruel method of enlarging this organ while the bird is alive. The spleen is an instance of the former case, being strongly ill-flavoured. The mode of feeding animals, designed for the table, has also a great influence on the quality of the flesh, so much so that nice judges can distinguish whether mutton, if from the same breed of sheep, has been fed on grass or tm'nips, and can tell still more accurately on tasting the fat of pork whether the pigs have been fed, on sour skimmed milk, brewers' grains, or pea-flour It was the practice some time ago, but now almost laid aside, to feed calves and oxen on oilcake. This did certainly fatten them, but the fat was rather rancid in most cases, and never of a good flavour. The truth seems to be, that, though generally, the lean of ani- mals is the most tender and palatable, yet that this is not so much the case when the fat is rapidly produced by artificial management in the feeding. It is, perhaps, owing to the different quality and quantity of food as much as anything that the season of the year has an effect upon the flesh of animals; the heat or cold of the weather, and, in some cases, the periodical return of sexual attachment, must also be taken into account. In the instances of veal and lamb the words, "in season" and "out of season," refer, perhaps, more to plenty and scarceness than to any quality in the meat; for as soon as anything is so plentiful in the market as to cause a fall in the price, and bring it within reach of the poor, then the wealthy classes pronounce it to be out of season. This is the case with some sorts of birds which migrate at certain times of the year—the woodcock, for example—and are on that account to be valued when they can be procured. Such as breed here—the Solan goose, for example—can be procured in the young state before they take flight to their unknown retreat. It has been roundly asserted that there is no bird, and no part of any birds, which may not be safely used as food. Many species, however, are very oily, tough, or bad flavoured; and it is not at least very desirable to eat any animal which feeds on prey or carrion, even though this did not, as it does, taint their flesh. The qualities of the flesh of birds differ very much, both in several species, and in particular parts of the same bird The flesh of birds which live on grain is for the most part preferred to those which feed on insects or fish. The pheasant, the turkey, as well as partridge and moor game, are more esteemed than goose, duck, or woodcock. Many of the water birds, however, are preferred, though, from the nature of their food, they are apt to taste strongly of fish, and to become too fat and oily; to remedy these defects skilful cooks some- times bury them underground for some days, and carefully remove all the skin, and as much as possible of the fat and oil from the inside before dressing them. With regard to the particular parts of the same birds, the flesh of the wing, and the part of the breast nearest the wing, consisting of the muscle exerted in flying, are more dry, tender, and of a whiter colour than the muscles of the leg. This, however, is not the case with black game, in which the more superficial of these muscles are dark coloured, while those deeper seated are pale; and the same is sometimes seen in other birds. In the woodcock the thigh is the whitest and most esteemed part. The belly and the muscles of the thigh, when young enough, or when long kept and properly cooked, are both palatable, juicy, and sufficiently tender. The tendoTis of these muscles, however, are very tough, and, at a certain age become cartilaginous, and even bony. Birds in a domestic state do not readily become fat, if allowed to go at large; for fattening they should be confined in coops, and supplied with as much wholesome food as they can get. Poulterers even cram them with food. Domestic waterfowls must, while fattening, be kept from the water, otherwise they will acquire a strong fishy taste, and, besides, will always remain lean. In general, over fatness may be con sidered as a sort of oleaginous dropsy, and seldom or never is met with in a state of nature. All the soft parts of fish contain gelatine and fibrous substances, and are, consequently, in the edible sorts, nutritious. The fibrous portions are not, except in a few species, red, like the muscular flesh of land animals, but white and opaque when dressed. If cooked fish looks bluish and semi-transparent it is not in season. It is fortunate for us that few if any poisonous fish are found in our seas, being chiefly confined to the tropics. The roe of a great number of fish is eaten. Caviar is the roe of the sturgeon.ANI C 22 ] AN I Cod sounds, or the swim bladder of the larger cod, are reckoned a great delicacy when properly preserved. It is not usual for the skin of any animal to be eaten—though the skin of some sorts of fish which are pulpy and gelatinous are relished, as the skin of calves' heads is used for mock turtle-soup. The flavour of fish depends greatly on their food, which, it is supposed, is the main cause of the difference between fresh and salt-water fish, and between the same sorts of fish taken in different lakes and rivers, and on different parts of the coast. Some shell-fish, such as mussels and cockles, are occasionally found to disagree with some particular constitutions ; but it is not true that this arises from their feeding on copper banks. Some say that it is from the persons eating the beard, or fibres, by which the mussels attach themselves to the rocks, which is not, we think, probable. The limpet {Patella vulgata), the periwinkle (Turbo littoreus), the whelk {Murex antiquus), are used as food, boiled by the common people in various districts of this country. The crusta- ceous shell-fish of sufficient size are very gene- rally esculent. These chiefly belong to the family of Cancer. Hence, several species of crabs, both short and long-tailed, are eaten. The lobster, the crawfish, the shrimp, and the prawn belong to this class. ANIMATION, SUSPENDED. The fol- lowing directions emanate from the Royal Humane Society:— Caution. Never hold the body up by the feet. Never let it be rolled on casks. Avoid all rough usage. Use no salt in case of apparent death. Process of recovery.—The drowned.—1. Con- vey the body carefully, with the head slightly raised, to the nearest receiving-house, or other most convenient place. ^. Strip and dry the body ; clean the mouth and nostrils. 3. Lay it on a blanket or bed in a warm room, in the winter; in summer, it may be exposed to the sun. 4. The body to be gently rubbed with flannel; a heated warming-pan covered with flannel, or warm bricks similarly covered, to be lightly moved over the body and along the spine, when this can be done without interrupting the pro- cess of restoring breathing. Warm bricks, covered, or bottles of warm water, to be placed in the hams and armpits, and to be applied to the palms, soles, and pit of the stomach. 5. To restore breathing introduce the pipe of a pair of bellows into the nostril, closing the other nostril and mouth, and gently pressing down the top of the windpipe backwards and forwards towards the chest. Work the bellows so as to fill the lungs. When the chest is raised by the inflation, let the mouth and nostrils be free, and gently compress the chest, so as to expel the air. Repeat these processes till life appears. 6. When bellows are not at hand, endeavour to restore breathing by alternately compressing the chest and remitting the pressure. This simple process has proved highly serviceable; and as any person may employ it safely and effectually, it should not be delayed a moment. 7. Electricity or galvanism, early used by a medical assistant. Suffocation by noxious vapours. Cold water to be repeatedly thrown on the face, &c., drying the body at intervals. If the body feel cold, employ gradual warmth. Intense cold. Rub the body vnth snow, ice, or cold water. Restore warmth by degrees, and after some time, if necessary, employ the means for restoring the drowned. Suspension by hanging. A few ounces of blood may be taken from the jugular vein, or by cupping-glasses applied to the head or neck, or by leeches applied to the temples. It is peculiarly necessary to have medical aid, as the treatment must vary according to cu-cum- stances. Intoxication. 1. Lay the body on a bed, with the head a little raised ; remove the neckcloth and procure medical aid. Warm fluids may be conveyed to the stomach by means of a flexible tube and a gum-elastic bottle. On signs of returning life, a tea-spoonful of warm water may be given, and, if swallowed, some warm wine or diluted spirits. Then let the person be conveyed to a warm bed, and suffered to sleep, if so inclined, being carefully watched, so as to guard against any sinking of the powers of life during sleep. 2. The restorative process to be used for four or six hours. It is a wrong opinion that persons are irrecoverable because life does not speedily re-appear. 3. Electricity and bleeding never to be em- ployed, unless by the direction of a medical assistant. If the restorative process be promptly employed, an immense proportion of lives will be saved. What is done, let it be done without any delay. ANISE BISCUITS. Wash 4 drachms of anise seeds, and dry in the oven ; work up the yolks of 5 eggs and ^ lb. of powdered sugar for about ten minutes ; whip the whites to a strong froth, and mix them lightly with the yolks ; add ^ lb. of dry-sifted flour and the anise ; pour this paste into a paper case 11 inches long by 7 wide. Bake it in a slow oven for about forty or fifty minutes; when, if firm, take it out. As soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut theC 23 ] ANT ANI biscuits into whatever form you please. Dry them in the oven until they become brittle. ANISE CAKES. Put in an earthen pan 8 ozs. of sugar, pounded, and the yolks of 10 eggs; stir them together with a wooden spoon for half an hour. In the meantime have the whites whipped to a thick snow, and then pour in the sugar and yolks. When thoroughly mixed add 1 oz. of good aniseed, previously washed and dried, and 10 ozs. of flour ; stir the whole gently, and then, with a spoon, lay the mixture on white paper in cakes about the size of a crovm piece; sprinkle them with fine sugar, and bake. Remove them from the paper with a knife while hot. ANISEED RATAFIA, or Cordial. To make a quart of this liquor boil 1 lb. of sugar with ^ pint of water until the sugar is quite clear; then heat another i pint of water, and put in it 3 ozs. of aniseed ; take it from the fire before it boils; let it stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it, with 3 pints of brandy, into the sugar; mix all well together, and then pour into a vessel, which must be closed tight, and placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle. ANISEED WATER. Choose 8 ozs. of new aniseed; sift it well to free it from the dust, and then infuse in 6 pints of water, with the juice of 3 lemons, and i oz. of cinnamon. In a week's time distil it over a moderate fire; put 1 pint of water into the still; dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in 3 pints of water. As the anise con- tains an acid salt, which renders this liquor milky, the following proceeding is necessary:—• Reserve 1 pint of the water from that in which you dissolved the sugar, and mix it with the white of 3 or 4 eggs, well whipped, and, while the syrup is hot, put to it this egg-water and the aniseed water ; stir it over the fire until the whole is hot, without boiling; then put it into a glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the next day filter and bottle. ANISETTE DE BORDEAUX. Take 2 ozs. of green aniseed, | lb. of aniseed, 2 ozs. of coriander, and the same of fennel seed; bruise and put them, with 16 pints of brandy, into an alembic lain marie; that is, a still heated with boiling water; then dissolve 13 lbs. of sugar in 2 quarts of river water, which must be put to your liquor when distilled. Filter and bottle. ANNOTTO. See Aenatto. ANODYNE, any medicine capable of allaying pain. Some are taken internally, and others are applied externally for this purpose. Pain usually arises either from blood stagnating at a par- ticular spot, causing inflammation, or from a deficient circulation of the blood, which causes similarly local exhaustion. Administering ano- dynes requires great caution, for they usually operate upon the brain, causing sleep; and let it always be borne in mind that the frequent use of anodynes increases the necessity for using them. Opium is an anodyne, and he who indulges in taking that seductive drug may remove pain, but gives birth to a craving aa beset with horrors, and concluding in untimely death, as certainly as doth the dram-drinker. If an anodyne causes sleep, it is called a sopo- rific; and if it rapidly diminishes the circula- tion, it is called a sedative. See those headings, as well as Camphob, Foxglove, Hemlock, Henbane, Hydrocyanic (PEnssic) Acid, Nightshade (Deadly), Nightshade (Woody), Opium, Stramonium, Tobacco, Yeast Poul- tice. ANODYNE FOR INFANTS. Take syrup of poppies, 1 oz.; brandy, ^ oz.; and aniseed water, 3 ozs. Give, when requisite, a small tea- spoonful. ANODYNE NECKLACES are of very an- cient usage, but are now fallen into disuse. When formed of the root of Hyoscyamus, or henbane, or of any other powerful sedative they may have soothed the child which sucked them, but modern intelligence points out that remedies are better applied in a more certain form. Such necklaces to be worn by persons of maturer age are mere quackery. Thus Ori- basius recommended, for the cure of epilepsy, a necklace of pseony roots; and Mr. Morley, in a more recent period, ordered, for scrofula, the root of vervain to be tied with a yard of white satin riband around the patient; but both Ori- basius and Mr. Morley ordered most active me- dicines to be taken whilst these necklaces were worn! ANTHELMINTICS are remedies for de- stroying or expelling worms that occur in the bowels. There are three kinds of such worms usually met with, viz., the tape, the thread, and the round. A fourth kind, called the teres, or triangular worm, sometimes occurs. The best mode of destroying the tape worm is to give 2 or 3 table-spoonsful of the oil of turpentine. For thread worms the best medicines are rhu- barb, wormwood, or scammony; or an injection made with 2 table-spoonsful of the oil of tur- pentine and the yolk of 1 egg, well mixed together, and 1 pint of gruel, made either of oatmeal or common flour, added and used warm. Another good injection is made with 1 scruple of aloes and 1 pint of warm soapsuds and water. A good dose for a child of about seven years old, are 5 grains of aloes, or 10 grains of compound powder of jalap. The round worm is readily expelled by any purgative. See Worms. ANTHRACITE. This is known also as culm, blind coal, Kilkenny coal, and glanceANT [ 24 ] ANT coal. It is heavier than Common coal, has rather a metallic lustre, burns without emitting smoke, and, if dry, produces hut little flame, hut, if damp, it emits a low, yellow flame. It consists almost entirely of carbon, and, therefore, like charcoal, produces a gi'cater heat than can he obtained from an equal weight of any other coal. It burns brightly, but is not a cheerful fuel for parlour use. ANTI-ATTRITION. This is used to reduce the friction of wheels, or, in common language, " to make them run easy." It is also excellent for smearing over fire-kons and other bright articles of iron previously to putting them away until required. Lard, lbs ; camphor, 1 oz ; blacklead, i lb. Rub, in a mortar, the camphor down into a paste with a little of the lard ; then add the rest of the lard and the blacklead, and mix thoroughly ANTIDOTES are medicines capable of pre- venting the ill effects of poison, and it may be eafely affirmed that, if the poison has been taken into the stomach, the most effectual anti- dote is to cause vomiting; and let this be hastened without loss of time. Life or death may depend on the delay of a minute. Both with the emetic used for this pm-pose and after- wards certain specific antidotes may be em- ployed, for in many cases the effects of this latter remedy may be promoted by the ingestion of liquids holding the particular antidote in solution—a practice which offers the double advantage of accelerating the throwing out of the poison, and at the same time of decomposing any which may remain. Orfila has fully established the fact of albumen being a counter poison to corrosive sublimate; vomiting may, therefore, be very judiciously promoted in cases of such poisoning by water holding the white of egg in solution; with equal effect, where verdigris has been swallowed, sugared water may be used as a diluent to encoui'age vomiting ; and muriate of soda in solution will be found the most efficient antidote to nitrate of silver; and ■sulphate of magnesia to acetate of lead. Where an emetic salt, like tartarised antimony, has been taken, copious dilution with common water will in general so provoke vomiting, as to render it its own antidote; but it may be useful to remember that the infusion of galls, and, according to Berthollet, the decoction of bark, at the temperature of from 30" to 40° Fahr. have the power of decomposing it; while Orfila considers milk the most efficient counter poison to the sulphate of zine. Under the names of different poisons the proper remedies to be adopted will be specified. See also Poisons. ANTIMONIAL WINE. See Ajitimony, WXNE OF. ANTIMONY is a metal produced from ores found chiefly in the mines of Hungaiy, Norwav. Saxony, and Sweden. In its metallic state it is used with other metals in making printers' types, and the reflecting specula of telescopes. Its oxides are employed in medicine and in colouring glass. Combined with chlorine it is the butter of antimony, used as a caustic by farriers. Jamesspowder is a phosphate of lime and antimony. Tartar emetic is tartrate of potash and antimony. Formerly metallic antimony was given inter- nally; but as its action depended entirely on the acid which it met with in the stomach, its effects were very uncertain and often violent. Cups were also made of antimony, which im- parted to ■wine that stood in them for some time an emetic quality. But both these im- proper modes of exhibiting this metal are now laid aside. Sulphuretted antimony was employed by the ancients in collyria, against inflammation of the eyes, and for staining the eyebrows black. Its internal use does not seem to have been established till towards the end of the fifteenth century; and even at that time it was by many looked upon as poisonous. Experience has now, however, fufly evinced that it may be administered with perfect safety, and that some of its preparations are medicines of great efficacy. The first decree of the Parliament of Paris against antimony was in 1566. The prejudice against it was for a time so strong, that an able Parisian physician, Paulmier, was expelled from the faculty, in 1609, for having employed it. But by a revolution of opinion, not unusual iii the medical profession, it was admitted by the faculty into the " Antidotarium," published in 1637. It was much emploj'ed about 1650; but Guy Patin and some others considered it as a poison, and entitled a large register, " Martyrologe de rAntimoine." IDuring this dispute the doctors of the faculty assembled on the 9th of March, 1666, to decide the point; on which occasion ninety-two voted for the ad- mission of antimonial wine, and the parlia- ment authorised it by a decree of 10th of April, 1666. The general effects of antimonials are, in small doses, promoting perspiration and nausea; in large doses, full vomiting and purging. Some allege that antimonials ai'e of most use in fevers when they do not produce any sensible evacua- tion, as is said to be the case sometimes with James's powder. They, therefore, prefer it in typhus, and emetic tartar in higlily inflamma- tory fevers, in which there is the appearance at first of more activity in the system, and more apparent cause for evacuation.APE [ 25 ] ANT ANTIMONY, FLOWERS OF, are a com- bination of sulphur and antimony, and are used as emetic, given in doses of from 1 to 3 grains. ANTIMONY, TARTRATE OF POTASH AND, commonly known as tartar emetic. It either vomits, purges, or sweats, according to the quantity exhibited. Thus ^ grain will, if the skin be kept warm, promote perspiration; A grain will procure some stools first, and per- spiration afterwards ; and 1 grain will generally vomit, and then purge, and, lastly, sweat the patient; in very minute doses, as 1-lOth or l-12th of a grain, combined with squill and ammoniacum, it acts as an expectorant. It is decidedly the most manageable and the least uncertain of all the antimonial preparations, and the practitioner would probably have but little to regret were all the other combinations of this metal discarded from our pharma- copceias. Tartar emetic, when triturated with lard, in the proportion of 1^ drachm or S drachms to 1 oz. of the latter, forms a very powerful rubefacient, occasioning a pimply eruption on the skin, and proving very serviceable in deep- seated inflammation; or the application may be made by dusting a piece of adhesive plaster with tartarised antimony, taking care to leave a margin untouched that it may more firmly adhere. All the preparations of antimony, taken in large or in continually-repeated small doses, will act as a poison. When a large quantity has been swallowed it occasions vomitings, copious and obstinate purging, contraction of the throat, cramps, symptoms of intoxication, and prostra- tion of strength. In such a case, vomiting, if not already present, should be excited by tickling the throat and the administration of ■warm, water in large quantities ; and even if it has taken place, warm water is advisable to relieve the symptoms. If, notwithstanding the employment of these means, vomiting cannot be induced, we should exhibit the decoction or tincture of bark. This was proposed by Ber- thollet, and its value is great, from the fact of its decomposing the salt. Strong tea, the de- coction of nutgalls or of astringent roots and barks generally, will answer as substitutes when the bark cannot be obtained. Opium may be employed in excessive vomitings, and the anti- phlogistic treatment is generally necessary to remove the secondarv symptoms. ANTIMONY, WINE OF, is made by dis- solving 24 grains of tartrate of antimony in lib. of sherry wine. It is usually known as antimonial wine. It is a powerful, but uncer- tain and somewhat dangerous emetic. Dose, from one to two measured drachms. ANTI-SCORBUTICS are medicines used to prevent and to cui'e sea-scurvy. This is a disease brought on by the too great use of salt meat with little or no vegetable food. All fresli vegetables are anti-scorbutics. But as fresh vegetables are not easily procured on board ship lemon or lime-juice is taken, a little spirit being added to preserve it, and an ounce is served out eveiy day to each sailor to mix with his grog. ANTI-SPASMODICS are medicines given to relieve irregular and painful contractions of the muscles. The principal preparations so used are brandy, sulphuric ether, and camphor, as stimulants; opium and belladonna, as narcotics; and bark, salts of iron, zinc, and silver, as tonics. For the spasmodic affection, called epileptic fits, the best I'emedies are the first named; but they are not to prevent a recurrence of the attack; they only relieve for the time. For cramp in any part of the body cold water is the best remedy applied to the part affected. For spasms in the side or stomach a good remedy is the following mixture. Mixtures of asafcetida and camphor, of each 2^ ozs., and of tincture of valerian, 1 oz. Mix them. One table-spoonful to be taken three or four times daily. APERIENTS, or Cathartics: Medicines which quicken or increase the evacuation from the intestines, or which, when given in a cer- tain dose, occasion purging. These remedies, from a general difference in their modes of operation, have been classed under two divi- sions—laxatives and purgatives. The former operate so mildly that they merely evacuate the contents of the intestines without occasioning any general excitement in the body, or even stimulating the exhalant vessels of the canal; the latter produce a considerable influx of fluids from these vessels, and extend their stimulant effect to the system in general; and where these effects are very violent, the purgative is further distinguished by the epithet drastic. Laxatives, then, may be said to empty the bowels simply, and to carry off extraneous matter, which is out of the coui'se of the cir- culation ; but purgatives, as they occasion a constitutional effect, may be made subservient to very important purposes. It appears that different purgatives have very different powers in relation to the several modes of operation above specified ; some medicines, for example, urge the bowels to evacuate their contents by an imperceptible action upon the muscular fibres, and little or no increase of serous discharge attends the evacuation ; such are manna, sulphur, and magnesia. There would seem, moreover, to be certain bodies that have the property of in- creasing the peristaltic motions by operating[ 26 ] APO APE as mechanical stimulants upon the fibre. It would not be difficult to derive many illustra- tions of tbis fact from the history of herbi- vorous quadrupeds, and we have been disposed to consider the harsh and coarse texture which certain grasses assume in moist situations, as being calculated to furnish an increased stimulus to the intestines of the animals who feed upon them, at a time when their diminished nutritive qualities must render such a result desirable ; but the operation of a mechanical laxative may be demonstrated by a more familiar example; the addition of bran to our bread, constituting what is known by the name of brown bread, induces laxative effects, merely from the me- chanical friction of the rough particles or scales of the bran upon the inner coats of the in- testines, for the wheat without the bran in bread is not particularly laxative. The practical application of this fact may be useful, and digestion, in many cases, may be promoted by the simple expedient of changing the quality of our bread. Other cathartics stimulate the fibres to a much greater degree, and the effects are either confined to a part of the canal, or commu- nicated to the whole range of the intestines, from the duodenum to the extremity of the rectum: aloes will furnish a good example of the former, and colocynth may be adduced as an instance of the latter mode of operation. Other cathartics, again, direct all their stimulus to the exhalant vessels, and are accordingly distinguished by the force with which they produce serous evacuations; and for which reason they were formerly denominated hyclra- (jogues; such are saline purgatives, and certain vegetable bodies to be hereafter described. Dr. Cullen has even supposed that some of these medicines may act solely in this way, and with- out increasing directly the peristaltic motion. There is, however, as Dr. Murray very justly remarks, no proof of such an hypothesis, and it seems scarcely probable that any substance should act as a stimulant on these vessels, without at the same time stimulating the mobile fibres of the intestines. Mercurial purgatives appear to possess, in an eminent degree, the power of exciting the functions of the liver, and of thereby occasioning an influx of bile into the intestines. From the indications which cathar- tics are capable of iulfiUing, their utility in many diseases must be apparent. The extent of their importance and value were, however, never justly appreciated until the valuable publication of Dr. Hamilton on this subject, in which the author has pointed out, with more precision than any preceding writers had done, the therapeutic principles which should regulate their adminis- tration. Hia practice has clearly proved that a state of bowels may exist in many diseases, giving rise to a retention of feculent matter, which will not be obviated by the occasional ad- ministration of a purgative, but which requires a continuation of that purgative until the healthy action of the bowels is re-established. Since this view of the subject has been adopted, numerous diseases have received alleviation from the use of purgatives that were formerly treated with a dilferent class of remedies, and which were not supposed to have any connection with the state of the alvine evacuations. Thus in fever, the peristaltic motion of the intestines is diminished, and their feculent contents are unduly retained, becoming, of course, a source of morbid irritation. This fact has been long understood, and the practice of administering cathartic medicines under such circumstances has been very generally adopted; but until the publication of Dr. Hamilton's book, physicians were not aware of the necessity of carrying the plan to an extent beyond that of merely empty- ing the bowels, and they did not continue the free use of these remedies through the whole progress of the disease. The importance of cathartic medicines having been shown, and the distinctions in their modes of operation established, it only remains to say a few words upon the subject of their abuse. All the remedies of this class, but more especially those of considerable power, require caution in their administration, even in those diseases where they are indicated by peculiar symptoms, especially if there be any tendency to inflammation, or to extreme debility, although this latter symptom is often rather apparent than real, and is at once removed by the brisk operation upon the bowels. During pregnancy, and immediately after delivery, and during some other periods, the prudent practitioner will use a discretionary caution in their ex- hibition. The too frequent use of these medicines will induce marasmus, and render the bowels so morbidly irritable that purging is easily excited by the ordinary stimulus of our aliments; while in some habits the contrary occurs, and the resource to which the valetudinarian flies for relief only increases the torpor of the intestines and confirms his costiveness. APOPLEXY. This requires the most prompt treatment. Send for a surgeon im- mediately ; remove the neckcloth or other covering from about the throat; support the body as much as possible in a sitting posture; apply to the head cloths dipped in cold water, or cold vinegar and water, and place the feet in water almost scalding hot. There are many kinds of this disease, which consists in a sudden diminution and abolition[ 27 ] APO APO of all the senses, externally and internally, and a loss of all voluntary motion, at the same time that the heart and lungs continue to perform their functions. Apoplexy makes its attack principally at an advanced period of life, and most usually on those of a corpulent habit, with a short neck and large head, and on those who lead an in- active life, make use of full diet, or drink to excess. Although young subjects are not ex- empted from this disease, it is with them but rare, compared with persons advanced in years. It is divided into two species, viz., the sanguine- ous and the serous. When the disease arises in consequence of an accumulation of blood in the vessels of the head, or by an effusion of blood from the red vessels, it is called the sanguin- eous ; and when occasioned by the production of serum, it is called the serous apoplexy. The first is preceded sometimes by giddiness, dimness of sight, drowsiness, loss of memory, and a faultering of the tongue in speaking; but more usually it happens that the person falls down suddenly, the face becomes red and is puffed up; the veins of the head, particularly of the eyes, temples, and neck, seem swollen; the head feels hot, the eyelids are half open and stiff, the eyes prominent and fixed, the breathing difficult and noisy, and the pulse, for the most part, is strong, regular, and generally less frequent than in the natural state. In some instances, slight convulsive motions, with grinding of the teeth, are observed, &c. The second, or serous apoplexy, is generally gradual in its attacks ; the face is pale and tumid, respiration is impeded and noisy, the extremities cold and flaccid, the veins are de- pressed, the pulse weak, irregular, and inter- mittent. These appearances are sometimes preceded by swimming in the head, torpor, impediment of speech, loss of memory, &c. The sanguineous apoplexy is to be treated by bleeding largely and frequently from the jugular vein and temporal artery, applying leeches and cupping-glasses, blisters to the back,- afterwards to the head, and then to the extremities : strong purgatives and clysters. Take wine of aloes, ^ oz., tincture of jalap, 2 drachms, infusion of senna, 1 oz. Mix for a strong purging draught. Or, wine of aloes, 3 drachms, pure water, 1 oz. For a clyster, take compound extract of colo- cynth (bitter apple), 1 scruple; hot water, 10 ozs.; syrup of buckthorn, 1 oz., to be thrown up immediately. Or, for the same purpose, take common turpentine, i oz., beat up with the yolk of an egg; add gradually linseed tea, 10 ozs. To promote perspiration, give the following powder every four hours, in some strong gruel. Take antimonial powder, 5 grains, lump sugar, 4 grains, calomel, 1 grain. In most cases of sanguineous apoplexy, the patient cannot swallow during the fit of this disease. Great care is then required in giving medicine by the mouth, lest anything get down the wrong passage and suffocate the patient. When, therefore, this is likely to happen, the attempts should be given up, and external means trusted to. If the apoplectic fit has taken place soon after a full meal, or in consequence of intoxi- cation, an emetic should be given, provided blood-letting has been effected. The patient should be kept in an erect position, &c. When these plans fail, the stimulants recom- mended for the serous apoplexy and for palsy may be adopted. In the serous apoplexy, blood-letting is dis- pensed with. Emetics of ipecacuanha or tar- tarised antimony, or the following common emetic draught, may be given. Take sulphate of zinc, (white viti'iol) 1 drachm; pure water, 10 drachms ; syrup, 2 tea-spoonsful; after which apply blisters to the head, mustard plasters to the extremities, strong purges, as directed in the sanguineous apoplexy, with diffusive stimulants of ammonia, castor, asafoetida, and valerian. For example, take aromatic spirit of ammonia, 3 drachms; camphorated mixture, 5 ozs.; the acetated liquor of ammonia, H oz.; syrup of orange-peel, of which give the patient three table-spoonsful every two hours. Or, take tinc- ture of ammoniated valerian, and spirit of nitric ether, of each 3 drachms; peppermint water, 4 ozs ; syrup of orange-peel, i oz. To be given as above. People of a full and plethoric state of body, who are predisposed thereby to an attack of apoplexy, will act wisely by confining them- selves to a very abstemious mode of living, carefully abstaining from strong liquors, high- seasoned food, and meat suppers, as well as to a limited use of spirits of every kind, &c. APOTHECARIES' IMPLEMENTS, MEA- SURES, AND WEIGHTS. The following articles for domestic use are necessary to the proper dispensing of medicines, requiring accu- rate preparation, measuring, weighing, &c. A spatula for mixing ointment, making pills, &c. A tile, on which the preceding articles may be made or divided. A glass funnel. A clyster- pipe and bag. A graduated glass for measuring fluids, which has a scale from ^ drachm up- wards to 2 ozs. or more. The first line marks i drachm, the second 1 drachm, the third 2 drachms, the fourth 3 drachms, the fifth 4 drachms (or i oz.), and so on. As these mea- sures, as well as the weights, are marked with their proper characters, it will be proper toAPP APP r 28 ] point them out, so as to render them in- telligible :— Marked ozs. IC 14 1 oz. 12 10 1 oz. 8 7 6 5 i oz. 4 3 2 1 I Lint. Scales and weights. Small glass mortar and pestle. Sponge, &c. The following tables show the weights and measures used by apothecaries, and the signs by which they are denoted; which are those, of course, which should also regulate the practice of every one who undertakes to prescribe for the sick. WEIGHTS. The pound . , . f5\ „ /Twelve ounces, ounce . . • .5 Eight drachms, drachm . . 3 }• -g ■ Three scruples, scruple . . . 9 j o Twenty grains, grain . . . grj ^ The grain weights are marked, exclusive of the stamp upon them, with a particular impression for each grain. The scruple and drachm are marked with the above corresponding impressions. MEASOEE OP FLUIDS. Eight pints. Sixteen fluid drachms. Eight fluid drachms. Sixty minims. The gallon . . cong.\ ^ pint . . octavus I .2 fluid ounce . f 1 i- -2 fluid drachm . f 3 § minim or drop j ^ APPAREL. Let it be always borne in mind that to buy good clothing is the cheapest what- ever the price may be; that to be too warmly clad is far safer than to be too thinly clad; that the worst of all tastes is to be gaily or extravagantly clothed; and that no well-regulated mind will endure a dirty or an untidy dress. In our following remarks we shall confine ourselves chiefly to commenting upon apparel generally, and then to gentlemens' more par- ticularly, leaving what we have to say relative to ladies' clothing to each article of dress as it occurs in its alphabetical order. The clothing ought to be suited to the climate. Custom has, no doubt, a very great influence in this article; but no custom can ever change the nature of things so far as to render the same clothing fit for an inhabitant of Nova Zembla and the island of Jamaica. It is not, indeed, necessary to observe an exact proportion between the quantity of clothes we wear, and the degree of latitude which we inhabit; but at the same time proper attention ought to be paid to it, as well as to the openness of the country, the frequency and violence of storms, &c. In youth, while the blood is hot and the perspiration free, it is less necessary to cover the body with a great quantity of clothes; but in the decline of life, when the skin becomes rigid and the humours more cool, the clothing should be increased. Many diseases in the latter period of life proceed from a defect of perspiration : these may, in some measure, be prevented by a suitable addition to the clothing, or by wearing such as are better calculated for promoting the discharge from the skin, as clothes made of cotton, flannel, &c. The clothing ought likewise to be suited to the season of the year. Clothing may be warm enough for summer which is by no means sufficient for winter. The greatest caution, however, is necessary in making these changes. We ought neither to put off our winter clothes too soon, nor to wear our summer ones too long. In this countiy the winter often sets in very early with great rigour, and we have frequently cold weather even after the commencement of the summer months. It would likewise be prudent not to make the change all at once, but to do it gradually; and, indeed, the changes of apparel in this climate ought to be very incon- siderable, especially among those who have passed the meridian of life. That " Colds kill more than plagues " is an old observation; and, with regard to this country, it holds strictly true. Every person of discern- ment, however, will perceive that most of the colds which prove so destructive to the inhabit- ants of Britain are owing to their imprudence in changing clothes. A few warm days in March or April induce them to throw off' their winter garments, without considering that our most penetrating colds generally happen in the spring. Clothes often become hurtful to the ivearer by their being made subservient to the purposes oj pride or vanity. Mankind in all ages seem to have considered clothes in this view; accordingly their fashion and figure have been continually varying, with very little regard either to health, the climate, or conveniency : a hooped petticoat, for example, may be very necessary in hot southern climates, but surely nothing can be more ridiculous in the cold regions of the north. Even the human shape is often attempted to be mended by dress, and those who know no better believe that mankind would be monsters without its assistance. All attempts of this nature are highly pernicious. The most de- structive of them in this country is that of squeezing the stomach and bowels into as narrow a compass as possible, to procure, what is falsely called, a fine shape. This madness seems to have pervaded the miuds of mothers in every[ 29 ] APP APP age and country. Terence, in his comedy of the " Eunuch," ridicules the Roman matrons *for attempting to mend the shape of their daughters. By this practice, the action of the stomach and howels, the motion of the heart and lungs, and almost all the vital functions, are obstructed. Hence proceed indigestions, syncopes, or faint- ing fits, coughs, consumptions of the lungs, and other complaints so common among females. The feet likewise often suffer by pressure. How a small foot came to he reckoned genteel we will not pretend to say; but certain it is that this notion has made many persons lame. Almost nine-tenths of mankind are troubled with corns ; a disease that is seldom or never occasioned but by straight shoes. Corns are not only very troublesome, but by rendering people unable to walk, they may likewise be considered as the remote cause of other diseases. We often see persons who are rendered quite lame by the nails of their toes having grown into the flesh, and frequently hear of mortifica- tions proceeding from this cause. All these, and many other inconveniences attending the feet, must be imputed solely to the use of short and tight shoes. Though we hear frequently of plasters, salves, ointments, &c., for eradicating corns, yet they are never known to produce that effect. The only rational mode of proceeding is to soften the corn a little by immersion in warm water, and then to cut it carefully, and to renew this operation every week, till the scarf skin is re- duced to its original or natural thinness, after which it must be preserved from the irritating pressure of straight shoes, which had at first occasioned the painful callosity. The size and figure of the shoe ought certainly to he adapted to the foot. In children the feet are as well shaped as the hands, and the motion of the toes as free and easy as that of the fingers ; yet few persons in an advanced period of life are able to make any use of their toes ; they are generally squeezed all of a heap by narrow shoes, and often laid over one another in such a manner as to be rendered altogether incapable of motion. Nor is the high heel less hurtful than the narrow toe. A lady may seem taller for walking on her tiptoes, but she will never walk well in this manner. It strains her joints, distorts her limbs, makes her stoop, and utterly destroys all her ease and gracefulness of motion. It is entirely owing to shoes with high heels and narrow toes that not one female in ten can be said to walk well. hi fixing on the clothes due care should he taJcen to avoid all tight bandages. Garters, buckles, &c., when drawn too tight, not only prevent the free motion and use of the parts about which they are bound, but likewise obstruct the circulation of the blood, which prevents the equal nourishment and growth of these parts, and occasions various diseases. Tight bandages about the neck, as stocks, cravats, necklaces, &c., are extremely dangerous. They obstruct the blood in its course from the brain, by which means headaches, vertigoes, apoplexies, and other fatal diseases, are often occasioned. The perfection of dress is to he easy and clean. Nothing can be more ridiculous than for any one to make himself a slave to fine clothes. Such a one, and many such there are, would rather remain as fixed as a statue from morning till night than discompose a single hair or alter the position of a pin. Were we to recommend any particular pattern for dress, it would be that which is worn by the people called Quakers. They are always neat, clean, and often elegant, without anything superfluous. What others lay out upon tawdry laces, ruflles, and ribands, they bestow upon superior cleanliness. Finery is only the affectation of dress, and very often covers a great deal of dirt. We shall only add, with regard to clothing, that it ought not only to be suited to the climate, the season of the year, and the period of life, but likewise to the temperature and constitution. Robust persons are able to endure either cold or heat better than the delicate, consequently may be less attentive to their clothing. But the precise quantity of clothes necessary for any person cannot be determined by reasoning. It is entirely a matter of experience, and every man is the best judge for himself what quantity of clothes is necessary to keep him warm. The celebrated Boerhaave used to say, that nobody suffered by cold save fools and beggars; the latter not being able to procure clothes, and the former not having sense to wear them. Be this as it may, we can with the strictest truth testify, that in many cases, where the powers of medicine had been tried in vain, the patient has been cured by wearing thick shoes, a flannel waistcoat and drawers, a pair of under-stockings, or a flannel petticoat, to be worn during the cold season at least. Where warmer clothing is wanted we would recommend the fleecy hosiery to be worn next the skin. With respect to the different periods of life children should, from the birth, be habituated to light clothing, not only by day, but in bed; for nothing contributes more to form the con- stitution. Infants and children are less apt to have their perspiration checked than persons who are more advanced in life, and, therefore, less apt to catch cold. From the change of childhood to the thirty-fifth year, the strength of the vital powers, and a brisk circulation, tend very much to keep up an equal perspiration; but, after that period, the force of the circula-APP C 30 J APP tion being lessened, the clothing by day, and the covering by night, should be gradually in- creased ; for many of the diseases of advanced life are produced or exasperated by obstructed perspiration. Climate and season of the year ought cer- tainly to have clothing suited to them ; but in our unsteady climate it is very difficult to ac- commodate them to the sudden changes. Upon the whole, however, after the age of thirty-five, it may be better to exceed rather than be deficient in clothing. Habit or custom always merits great attention. If persons have been accus- tomed to warm clothing, there will always be hazard in sudden changes of every kind. Those who clothe and sleep warmly ought not to in- dulge in hot, close rooms during the day, or have fires in their bed-chambers. Those who have resided long in hot climates, when they 3ome into this country, should rather exceed in their clothing. With respect to the state of health. To per- sons of hale constitutions and in high health, very warm clothing in the day or covering at night would be highly improper, because their vital powers being strong, and the circulation vigorous, the warmth and steady perspiration on the surface and extremities resist the im- pressions of cold and moisture, unless they are very violent. Such persons, however, relying too much on the strength of their constitutions often expose themselves imprudently; and as the violence of their disease is in general in proportion to the vigour of their vital powers, so they are fre- quently rapid in their progress and fatal in their termination. The grand rule is, so to regulate our clothing and covei'ing, that when we expose ourselves to the external air, the difference of the temperature of the air in both situations may be such that we shall not be susceptible of dangerous impressions under any inclemency of season when we go abroad. Persons in firm health ought, therefore, so to regulate the temperature within-doors, that it shall not exceed 56° of the thermometer in winter, spring, and autumn; and in the sum- mer, bring it as near that as possible by the admission of fresh air. Were it happily at our option to obtain all the requisites for forming a fine constitution, no man of common sense would spare any pains to acquire them ; but this is not always in our power. A weakness of constitution is often hereditaiy; or it may result from diseases either unavoidable, or the efi'ects of negligence or in- attention. Under such circumstances we must be content to accommodate ourselves to our situation, and prudently avoid all such extremes as may impair health. Persons of delicate and irritable constitutions, whose powers are weak and circulation languid and unsteady, are apt to have the perspiration checked by very slight causes. This also happens to invalids, whose complaints are thereby much exasperated. Until the constitution, therefore, has been strengthened, and, as it were, hardened by being gradually habituated to air and exer- cise, they ought rather to exceed than be de- ficient in the quantity of clothing. With respect to clothing, such addition ought to be made to it in cold and damp weather as to protect the body against the sudden and severe impressions of either. Invalids should have clothing accommodated to different seasons and changes of weather, and ought rather to exceed than be deficient in their warmth—those par- ticularly who are subject to coughs, those whose nerves are weak and irritable, and those who are gouty and rheumatic. Such persons ought in the beginning of Sep- tember to wear a flannel waistcoat over the shirt' or shift, and, provided their skin is not irritable or liable to eruption, towards the end of October the flannel may be worn next the body; taking care to defend the lower limbs by flannel drawers and woollen stockings. Such persons as wear flannel next the body are apprehensive of changing this part of their clothing lest they should catch cold, and there- fore many continue to wear the same garment through the winter, and, as warm weather comes on, cut it away by degrees. But this precaution is not only unnecessary, but to persons of deli- cacy must be offensive, and, indeed, injurious; as thereby a part of the perspirable matter ac- cumulated for months is retained in constant contact with the surface of the body. We can, however, own from long experience, that the under-waistcoat may be safely changed once or twice a week ; and as the weather becomes more mild it may be worn over the linen, and at length totally left ofl" till the subsequent autumn. There is no part of our domestic economy wherein thrift can be practised with better success, provided the matter is well understood, than in what relates to wearing apparel, an article which forms so considerable an item in our yearly expenditure. By the exercise of care and judgment many persons are enabled to maintain a respectable appearance at less than half the cost of others, who, for want of these attributes, are always slovenly. It is our purpose to throw out a few hints on this subject, which those disposed to follow may profit by adopting. First, as to the purchase of clothes: we by all means recommend our friends to deal with respectable tradesmen, to eschew all ticketed goods, which have only the semblance of cheap-[ 31 ] APP APP ness, and are in reality the dearest of any. A well-made garment, of good materials, will with proper care look well to the last, and is not damaged by dirt or wet; but an inferior one will never look well after the shine has been literally taken out of it by a shower of rain; and therefore, on the score of economy, the person whose outlay for clothes is limited, should invariably decline the purchase of cheap ticketed garments, made up, like Peter Pindar's razors, " to sell." Neither would we recommend the system of bargain for a certain number of suits annually— a very prevalent practice some years ago, but now gone out of fashion, because it never gives satisfaction to either party ; and, in truth, is not so cheap a plan as purchasing good clothes out- and-out, and when they are worn down suffi- ciently, disposing of them to the Jews, who, if the articles were originally good, will give a tolerable price for them. The best system is, therefore, to deal with tradesmen of established respectability, to pay punctually, which will ensure attention, to have your things made to fit (but not too tightly) after the prevailing mode, but by no means in the extreme of the fashion. A real gentleman is distinguished by the neat- ness of his attire, the goodness of the material, personal cleanliness, and an unaffected carriage. This is the pattern which persons of inferior degree should imitate, avoiding a display of rings and brooches, and any outre foppishness ; which is a sure sign of want of intellect, and instead of exciting admiration, in nine cases out of ten, induces contempt. For general wear, invisible green in coats is the most prevalent .and enduring colour; but a suit of black is convenient to keep at hand, being always dress for an evening, and ready on occasions of private or public mourning. A material point for the economist to attend to is, however, to be careful in the wear of his clothes. For this reason the coat should be thrown off when at home (or if a professional man or a tradesman, during his hours of busi- ness), and either some older garment or a morning-gown substituted. Clothes take more damage in lounging about, rubbing the cuffs against chairs and desks, &c., than when worn in walking; and for this reason it is the constant practice of the thousands of persons emploj'ed in public and private offices in the metropolis, to change their coat, and substitute that called the " office coat," before they enter on their daily labours. Trousers, too, are more de- teriorated m a sitting than a standing posture, particularly by bagging at the knees, and it is good economy before sitting down at home to dinner, if there be no engagement for the eve ning, to put on a homely suit, kept for the purpose, which fits easy. Owing to the great scarcity of beaver it is now difficult to get a really good hat, made of that material, which will wear well to the last. So many spurious articles are offered that the best judges are deceived, and therefore the only resource is to trust to the respectability of the hatter you deal with. The same reasoning applies to boots and shoes, of which vast numbers are imported into the metropolis and other large towns from Northamptonshire, Staffordshire, and Cheshire, of very inferior quality to the " London-made." Those who tread heavily and are apt to cut the leather at the sides before the sole is worn through, or whose feet are tender, should have the front of their boots of buck- skin ; and it may be procured prepared with a varnish which renders it impervious to wet. Boots and shoes improve by keeping, provided they are thoroughly saturated with good blacking occasionally; and if several pairs are kept in use, so as to change them on alternate days and give the wetted pair sufficient time to dry, it will be found economical, for they will wear better and retain their shape longer. Having thrown out these general hints, we shall now describe more particularly the manage- ment of clothes in the brushing, folding, cleaning, &c. Woollen clothes must be occasionally beaten, so as to raise the dust before brushing; and this, as well as the brushing, should be performed in a yard or a passage, because when done in a kitchen not only is there a liability of grease, but the minute particles of dust enter into the culinary preparations. A maid-of-all work should always be made to put on an apron, kept for this purpose alone, and wash her handfi before entering on the task of brushing; but in families where no footman or boy is kept, young men should not be above jierforming this operation for themselves. Footmen are., or ought to be, sufficiently instructed in the pro- cess ; but for the information of others the following directions will be useful. First, as to dusting, having spread the garment on a wooden horse, beat it gently with a small switch or cane free from knots; a lady's whip is the best dust- ing tool. Do not strike too hard, or you will break the mould buttons ; and always endeavour to avoid striking metal buttons, otherwise they will be scratched, Kub gently between the hands any spots of dirt set firm, and be sure that the gai'ment is dry before you commence upon it. You should provide two clothes brushes, a hard and a soft one. and never use the hard one unless to remove fixed dirt. The soft brush does not wear ofi the nap, and will suffice to[ 32 1 APP APP remove liair, lint, dust, &c. The brush improves after a little use, when the sharp edges of the bristles are worn off; and the brush usually called a blacking brush is one of the best for the purpose. After dusting a coat, spread it out on a table (free from grease) with the collar towards your left hand ; commence brushing the inside of the collar ; then the back and sleeves. The nap of the cloth is towards the skirts, so let the strokes of the brush be in that direction; next brush the two lapels ; lastly, the outside of the collar, and then fold it over and brush the inside in like manner. Wipe the dust off the table before you turn the garment, and if the coat is in- tended to be packed in a trunk, you must fold according to the following directions ; but if for immediate wear, or to be laid along in a ward- robe or drawer, no further folding is necessary. When the sleeves of the coat are brushed, turn them back, so that the crease comes just below the elbow; then turn the lapel over the folded sleeve, and finally turn the skirt up over the lapel, so that the end will come under tho collar when folded down ; then double it. Waist- coats should be folded as little as possible, merely doubling them inside out. Trousers should be brushed from the band downwards, the fore part then brought out so as to permit the legs to fold flat on each other; and they must be folded from the bottom, not the band. The wardrobe should be covered with a linen cloth (brown holland is in general use), and frequent opportunities taken to air, as clothes are apt to acquire an unpleasant smell when kept close for any length of time, and moreover subject to the moth; the best airing is to wear every garment occasionally. There are various nostrums for the preven- tion of moths, such as camphor, bitter apples, lavender, rue, pepper, laurel leaves, &c., folded in the clothes; nevertheless, to be secure from these destructive insects, which are not easily extirpated when they effect a lodgment, frequent airing is indispensable. Be particular to keep your clothes brushes clean, washing them occasionally in cold water with soap, or rubbing on paper placed over the edge of aboard, which not only removes the dirt, but rounds the edges of the bristles. Unless your clothes are clean-brushed you can never keep your gloves unsoiled. It sometimes happens that grease or paint spots appear. These are easily removed by oil of turpentine, or a hot iron pressed on the place over coarse brown paper, after scraping all that can be got off with a blunt knife. Stains may be removed from light-coloured clothes, such as drabs, buffs, or whites, with fullers' earth; but this is apt to take the colour out of dark cloths. It should be dissolved in a little boiling water, put on the spot when hot, held to the fire to dry, and then brushed out. Pitch is removed, first by rubbing the place over with grease or oil, and then taking out the oil by the application of spirits of tui'pentiue. Scouring balls may be prepared as follows. 6 parts fuller's earth to 1 part of pearl-ash, kneaded to a paste with lemon-juice. Moisten the stain with water, rub on the paste, and when dry wash it off again with soft water. Scouring drops: 1 tea-spoonful of essential oil of lemon, cloves, peppermint or cinnamon, to 1 wine-glassful of rectified spirit of tui-pen- tine. Rub a little on stains of silk, linen, or woollen stuff, with a bit of soft cloth or silk velvet. It will remove the stains of paint, pitch, oil, or fruit, without taking out the colours. This will be found equal to the scouring drops sold by chemists, and cost about one-tenth the price. Hats should be brushed with a soft brush kept for that purpose. When wetted by rain, they must be wiped quite smooth with a clean silk handkerchief. When dry, the brush then raises the nap evenly. For cleaning boots and shoes, use a wooden knife to remove the rough dirt, and brush off the remainder quite clean with a hard brush. When dry, apply the blacking, and polish immediately. Boot-trees are very useful, but they must be kept clean, or they will soil the inside of the boots, and consequently the stock- ings ; this precaution applies also to the hand. Never put boots or shoes too near the fire to dry. APPETITE, in the present instance, we shall consider means the craving for food. In this respect the appetite of man may be divided into three different species, though that evinced by inferior animals is naturally simple, because it is not impaired by art. Thus, if cliildren were never enticed by weak parents and ignorant nurses to eat more than their own inclination directs them, or to partake of highly-flavoured, artificial dishes which stimulate the palate, and preternaturally distend the stomach, there is every reason to believe that the following classi- fication would be unnecessary:— 1. The natural appetite, which is contented, as well with the most simple as the most com- pound and delicious dishes: such as that of country people employed in hard manual labour ; of children who have not been mismanaged in the imrsery; and of every rational person who is convinced of the advantages resulting to both mind and body from a simple frugal diet. 2. The artificial appetite of the epicure, the hypochondriac, and the tippler, all may be ranked under the same claSs. It would be needless to[ S3 ] APP APP add, in tHis place, any other remark than that such an inclination for sensual enjoyment re- mains only so long as the operation of these exquisite stimulants continues. When the pa- pillary nerves of the palate can be no longer influenced by such excitement the sensualist loses his appetite, and is punished with all the concomitant symptoms of indigestion. 3. The habitual appetite, though partly ac- quired, is not liable to those serious objections which apply to the second species; nor is it attended with any other disadvantages than those arising from long fasting, or an undue allowance of food on particular occasions. Thus, after fatiguing exercise, when the fibres of the digestive organs are already weakened, and the circulation of the blood to those parts is unusu- ally increased, the nourishment then received can be digested only with great difficulty, and to the detriment of the body. Want of appetite may proceed either from a defective energy of the stomach, originating more frequently from an immoderate quantity than the improper quality of food; or it may be occasioned by the sympathy of other diseased parts, such as the liver, bowels, &c.; or by intestinal worms, obstructions of the mesentery, and many other causes. Hence it will be un- derstood that there can be no specific remedy suggested to remove the complaint; but that the treatment must be regulated by the nature of the case, and the constitution of the patient. In general, however, the following hints deserve attention. When the stomach loathes wholesome food, and is troubled with habitual flatulency, and eructations of a bitter, rancid, or saline taste, it should be previously ascertained whether an emetic be proper or necessary to evacuate its contents. Yet to determine this point requires a degree of skill and experience which few persons in common life possess. On the other hand, the administration of a simple emetic may be attended with serious conse- quences. For this reason we would previously recommend a change of air and diet; early rising in the morning; gentle exercise; absti- nence from all hot drinks, particularly tea, punch, and hot broths, fat or hard meat, spirituous liquors, tobacco, &c.; to avoid the influence of depressing passions, such as excessive grief, fear, and anxiety; and if this treatment, after having been rigorously pursued for several days or weeks, produces no change in the appetite, then to have recourse to gentle emetics, or, rather, to the operation of nauseating medicine. Ac- cording to our experience, the powder of ipecacu- anha, in the smallest doses of a quarter or sixth part of a grain, in a little cold water, repeated every ten minutes for two or three hours toge- ther, before breakfast, stands eminently reco3i- mended in disorders of this nature, ard liag seldom failed to be of service to phlegmatic or corpulent individuals when continued for several mornings. But if there appear to be great ful- ness of the stomach or bowels, attended with the symptoms before described, it will sometimes be necessary to give such an emetic as may, according to circumstances, at the same time relieve the bowels. A mixture of 2 parts of ipecacuanha wine and 1 part of antimouial wine, taken in single tea-spoonsful every quarter of an hour, without any farther drink till it begins to operate, generally produces the desired effect. After the stomach and bowels have by such or similar means been evacuated, it will be use- ful to strengthen the tone of the fibres by drink- ing small draughts of cold camomile tea, or an infusion of quassia, or simple toast and water, well prepared, which last may be justly con- sidered as one of the mildest and most grateful corroborants. An insatiable appetite may arise from too great a distension of the stomach in early infancy; from an over-abundant secretion of the gastric or digestive liquor; from drinking large quan- tities of stimulating acid beverage, such as cider, perry, buttermilk, &c., but especially from a bad habit of fast eating, without properly masticating hard substances. Hence the first maxim in diet should be to eat slowly, in order to prevent a sudden distension of the digestive organs, and to allow sufficient time for the food to be duly prepared, and gradually mixed with the gastric juice. See Digestion and Indioes TION. APPLE. Cooks, in choosing apples foi culinary purposes, should always be guided by the weight, the heaviest being always the best; and those are particularly to be taken, which, upon being pressed by the thumbs, yield with a slight cracking noise. Large apples, possessing these qualities, should be taken in preference to small ones, as there is less waste in peeling and coring. The following is a good selection of large kitchen apples, arranged in the order of their maturity:— Manx Codlin, called also Irish Pitcher and Irish Codlin; Hawtliornden ; Hollandbury Pip- pin, called also Kirke's Scarlet Admirable ; Wormsley Pippin; Blenheim Orange, called also Woodstock Pippin; Dutch Codlin; Beauty of Kent; Dumelow's Seedling, called also Wel- lington ; Yorkshire Greening, and Royal Russet. For very early use the Carlisle Codlin is the best, but it is not large; for very late use the London Pippin, the French Crab, and the Nor- folk Beefing, are valuable; the last is well known, as furnishing the dried apples which are called Beefings.[ 34 ] APP APP APPLE CAKE. Pare and core a dozen apples, and make them into marmalade with essence of lemon and a little cinnamon, and pass them through a cloth: put them into a stewpan with a spoonful of potato-flour, I lb. of sugar, and 2 ozs. of butter; dry the mixture over the fire, and, when cold, add to it 6 eggs; stir them well in, and, having buttered a mould, pour your preparation into it, and bake it in a slow oven; when done, turn it upon a dish, and serve. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apples into the dish in layers till the dish is full, strewing sugar and bits of butter between. In the meantime, soak as many thin pieces of bread as will cover the whole in warm milk; over which place a plate and a weight to keep the bread close upon the apples. Bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish you should use i lb. of butter. APPLE CHEESECAKES. Pare, core, and boil 12 apples with sufiicient water to mash them; beat them very smooth; add 6 yolks of eggs, the juice of 2 lemons, and some grated lemon peel, and | lb. of fresh butter beaten to a cream: beat the whole with the apples. Bake in a puff-crust and serve open. APPLE COMPOTE. Pare and cut 6 apples in half, and put them into a pan with a little water and lemon-juice; then clarify ^ lb. of sugar, and, when you have skimmed it, put in your apples and the juice of a lemon; turn the apples frequently. As soon as you find the fork will penetrate them they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out; strain and reduce the syrup; strain it again, and then pour it over your apples, which may be served either hot or cold. Garnish with the peel of a very red apple, cut into various devices and laid on the apples. APPLE CUSTARD. Take 30 fine apples and pierce out the cores of 10 of them of an equal size; pare and trim them neatly, and boil them in 6 ozs. of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and cut the remaining apples very small, and put them into the above syrup; shred the rind of an orange, and mix with them; stir the whole constantly, to prevent their sticking to the pan. When sufficiently done, rub the mar- malade through a horsehair sieve, and, if too moist, evaporate them until of a custard thick- ness. Beat up this pulp with the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of two. Add gradually, and beat up with the mass, as much sifted loaf sugar as will sweeten it to your taste. Add, also, during this beating, 2 or 3 table-spoonsful of either rose water or orange-flower water. When all are thoroughly mixed, set them over a slow fire, and stir them until of the thickness of custard, taking cai'e that they do not boil, or the whole will be spoiled. APPLE DUMPLING. Make paste the same as for apple pudding; divide it into as many pieces as you want dumplings; peel the apples, and core them; then roll out your paste large enough, and put in the apples; close them all round, and tie them in pudding-cloths very tight. One hour will boil them, and when you take them up just dip them in cold water, and put them in a cup the size of the dumpling while you untie them, and then they will turn out without breaking. APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. Bake or scald 8 or 9 large apples; when cold, pare and pulp them through a sieve; beat this up with fine sugar ; put in the whites of 4 or 5 eggs that have been beaten in a little rose water; mix it a little at a time, and beat it till light. Heap it on a rich custai'd or jelly. APPLE FRITTERS (1). Pare, core, and cut in slices some large apples; then take |- pint of ale and 2 eggs; beat the mixture in as much flour as will give it of a consistence rather thicker than that of a common pudding. Add nutmeg and sugar, and let the whole stand a few minutes to rise ; then dip the slices of apple into the batter, fry them crisp, and serve them up with sugar grated over them, and wine sauce in a boat. APPLE FRITTERS (2). Beat the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs well together; strain them into a pan; then take 1 quart of cream make it moderately hot, and add 2 glasses of sherry, | pint of ale, and mix them well toge- ther; then add nutmeg and ginger, grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The batter should be pretty thick; then put in sliced apples or scraped pippins, and fry them quick in butter. APPLE JELLY. Pare, core, and quarter any quantity of good apples; cover them well with water, and let them boil till soft; drain them through a sieve into a pan, and in the meantime have ready a syrup made by boiling the rinds and cores in water; strain it ofi", and boil it with a sufficient quantity of sugar to make it rich. Take as much of this as of the juice which passes through the sieve, and boil it thoroughly; then add the jelly, and boil all together eight or ten minutes. This jelly should be kept covered with paper dipped in brandy, like all others made of fruit. APPLE MARMALADE. Pare, core, and cut your apples into small pieces; put them into water with a little lemon-juice to keep them white; take them out after a short time and drain them; weigh, and put them into a stewpan. If for present use, ^ lb. of sugar will[ 35 ] APP APP he sufBcient for eacli pound of apples; but if for keeping, double that quantity ■will be neces- sary. Add to it a stick of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon; put the stewpan over a brisk fire and cover it; when the apples are pulped stir the mixture till of the proper consistence; then put the marmalade into pots, but do not cover them until cold. APPLE PIE (1). Take 8 apples; pare, core, and cut not smaller than quarters; place them as close together in a pie-dish as possible with 4 cloves; rub in a mortar some lemon-peel with 4 ozs. of good moist sugar, and, if agree- able, add some quince-jam; cover it with puff- paste; bake it an hour and a quarter. Gene- rally eaten warm. APPLE PIE (2). Pare, quarter, and core the apples; cut them into thin bits; put into the bottom of a pie-dish 1 table-spoonful of brown sugar, with 1 tea-spoonful of grated ginger and lemon-peel, then a layer of apples, and so on alternately till the dish is piled as full as it will hold. The next day wet the rim of the dish, line it with puff or tart-paste, brush it with water, and cover it with paste; press the edge all round, notch it with a paste cutter, and make a small hole with the point of a knife in the middle. It may be seasoned with 2 table- spoonsful of lemon or orange marmalade, pounded cinnamon, mace and cloves, in addition to the ginger and lemon-peel. APPLE PIE (wtTir Mitscadel Raisins). Peel the apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into five or six pieces ; toss them in a pan with 4 ozs. of sugar in powder (over which should be grated the peel of a lemon), 4 ozs. of butter, lukewarm, and 4 ozs. of fine muscadel plums. Line the edge of a deep dish with a good puff paste ; then put in your fruit, and cover your dish with a good puff-paste J inch in thickness; glaze with the white of an egg, and strew powdered loaf sugar over it. Let it bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve hot. APPLE PUDDING (Baked) (1). Peel and core 6 very large apples; stew them in 6 table-spoonsful of water, with the rind of 1 lemon; when soft, beat them to a pulp; add 0 ozs. of melted fresh butter, the same of good brown sugar, 6 well-beaten eggs, ^ wine-glass of bi'andy, and 1 tea-spoonful of lemon-juice; line a dish with a puff-paste, and when baked, stick all over the top thin chips of candied citron and lemon-peel. APPLE PUDDING (Baked) (2). Pare and quarter 4 large apples ; boil them tender, with the rind of 1 lemon, in so little water that when done none of it may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar; add the crumbs of a small roll, 4 ozs. of butter, melted, the yolks of 5 and the whites of 3 eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste ; beat altogether and lay in a dish with paste to turn out. APPLE PUDDING (BoiledI (1). Chop 4 ozs. of beef suet, very fine, or 2 ozs. of butter, lard, or dripping—but the suet makes the best and lightest crust—put it on the paste-board, with 8 ozs. of flour and 1 salt-spoonful of salt; mix it well together with your hands, and then put it all of a heap, and make a hole in the middle; break one egg in it, stir it well together with your finger, and by degrees infuse as much water as will make it of a stiff paste; roll it out two or three times with the rolling-pin, and roll it large enough to receive 13 ozs. of apples. It will look neater if boiled in a basin, well buttered, than boiled in a pudding cloth, well floured; boil it an hour and three quarters; but the surest way is to stew the apples first in a stew- pan with a wine-glassful of water, and then one hour will boil it. Some people like it flavoured with cloves and lemon-peel, and sweeten it with 2 ozs. of sugar. APPLE PUDDING (Boiled) (2). Weigh ]f lb. of apples ; pare, core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh also 10 ozs. of brown sugar; make a suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edges than the middle, and sufiicieutly large to lay into a two-quart basin, previously buttered ; put in the apple and sugar alternately; wet the edges of the paste, and fold it closely over; dredge it with flour and tie a pudding-cloth over the top of a basin; boil it for three hours. A light paste may be made of flour half its quan- tity in bulk of grated bread and suet, mixing it with milk or water, and, instead of apples, currants, damsons, or any other fruit, may be enclosed in it. APPLE PUDDING, BOSTON. Peel and core 18 good apples ; cut them small, and put them into the stewpan with a little water, cinnamon, 2 cloves, and a little lemon-peel. Stew over a slow fire till the apples are quite soft; then sweeten with brown sugar and pass it through a sieve. Add the yolks of 4 eggs and the white of 1 egg, ^ lb. of butter, half a nutmeg, the grated peel of 1 lemon and also the juice ; beat the whole well together, line the inside of a dish with paste, put in the pudding, and bake lialf an hour. APPLE PUPTON. Pare some good baking apples, take out the cores, and put them into a skillet; to 1 i lb. of apples put i lb. of sugar and a wine-glass of water. Do them over a slow fire; add a little cinnamon, and keep them stir- ring. When of the consistence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool; beat up the yolks of 4 eggs, and stir in 4 table-spoonsful of grated bread, and i lb. of fresh butter; then form it into shape, bake it in a slow ovon, turn it upside down on a plate, and serve it as an entremet.[ 36 ] APP APP APPLE SAUCE (1). Pare and core 3 good- sized baking apples ; put them into a well-tinned pint saucepan, with 2 table-spoonsful of cold water ; co\er the saucepan close, and set it on a trivet over a slow fire a couple of hours before dinner (some apples will take a long time stew- ing, others will be ready in a quarter of an hour); when the apples are done enough, pour off the water, let them stand a few minutes to get dry; then beat them up with a fork, with a bit of butter as big as a nutmeg and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar.—^N.B. Some add lemon-peel, grated or minced fine, or boil a bit with the apples. APPLE SAUCE (2). As the apples are pared throw them into water and lemon-juice to preserve their colour; simmer and pulp. A more economical and much nicer way is to roast them, as it gives such a flavour to the sauce; mix them with cream, butter, and sugar; when there is no cream, use rice-flour boiled to a consistency in milk. A little lemon-juice is an excellent addition. Bread may be added. APPLE SNOW. Scoop the core out of 6 good apples and fill them with quince marmalade; stew them tender in ^ pint of water with some sugar and lemon-peel; add a little more mar- malade ; put the apples with the liquor in the dish; beat the white of 6 eggs to a snow with orange-flower water; add sugar to taste ; cover the apples with it, and bake half an hour. APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples as for baking in a pudding; put them into a deep dish, and lay upon the top, about 1| inch thick, rice boiled in new milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 2 or 3 eggs with a little sugar; lay it upon the rice, and bake it in an oven a light brown. Serve it instantly when done. APPLE TART. Pare, core, and cut the best sort of baking apples in small pieces, and lay them in a dish previously lined with a pufF- crust; strew over them pounded sugar, cin- namon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, and lemon-peel, chopped small, then a layer of apples, and then spice, and so on till the dish is full; pour over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. Cover it with pufF-crust, and bake it. When done, take off the crust, and mix with the apples 2 ozs. of fresh butter, and then pour in 2 eggs, well beaten ; lay the crust on again, and serve it either hot or cold. You may add pounded almonds and a little lemon-juice. APPLE TART, CREAMED (1). Use green codlings in preference to any other apple, and proceed as in the last receipt. When the pie is done, cut out the whole of the centre, leaving the edges ; when cold, pour on the apple some rich boiled custard, and place round it some small leaves of puff-paste of a light colour. APPLE TART, CREAMED (2). Slice 10 or 12 apples ; put them into clarified sugar, with wine, cinnamon, and cloves; let them simmer till clear; cover a dish with paste, lay in some chipped almonds and citron ; put in the apples, strew more almonds over them, and fill up with custard. When the border is done the tart is ready. Grate sugar, almonds, and citron over it. APPLE TARTLETS. Pare a dozen small, sound apples; core and cut them across; put them in a preserving-pan with a glass of water, i lb. of sugar, and the juice of a lemon. When sufficiently done, put the apples on a sieve to drain. Prepare your tartlets according to the directions for Apkicot Tartlets ; put in each a little apple marmalade, and bake them in a hot oven. In the meantime reduce the syrup to a thin jelly, and pour it on the apple tartlets when baked, and finish them by placing a cherry, or, if they are not in season, a pre- served berry of any kind on the top. APPLE TRIFLE (with Custard). Pulp 1 lb. of roasted apples; sift over them i lb of sugar, the whites of 4 eggs, and a little oi'ange-flower water; whisk all well together till they become a fine froth; put sweetened cream or an almond custard in a dish ; raise it high over it; garnish with delicate greenhouse flowers, fruit, jelly, biscuits, or preserves. It looks well in glasses. APPLES IN PANCAKES. Cut some apples very small; stew them in a little white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cinnamon, and brown sugar; mash them, and spread them over the pancakes; roll them up, and serve with sifted loaf sugar over them. APPLES, PRESERVED (1). Pare, core, and quarter 6 lbs. of good baking apples; finely pound 4 lbs. of loaf sugar ; put a layer of each alternately with i lb. of the best white ginger into a jar; let it remain eight-and-forty hours; infuse for half that time in a little boiling water 2 ozs. of bruised white ginger; strain and boil the liquor with the apples till they look clear, and the syrup rich and thick, which may be in about an hour. Take off the scum as it I'ises. When to be eaten, pick out the whole ginger. APPLES, PRESERVED (2). Weigh equal quantities of good brown sugar and of apples; peel, core, and mince them small. Boil the sugar, allowing to eveiy 31bs. 1 pint of water; skim it well, and boil it pretty thick; then add the apples, the grated peel of one or two lemons, and two or three pieces of white ginger; boil till the apples fall, and look clear and yellow. This preserve will keep for years. APPLES, PRESERVED (Codlins). Gather the codlins, when not bigger than French wal- nuts, with the stalks and a leaf or two on each.I .37 '> APP APP Put a handful of vine leaves iuto a preserving- pan, then a layer of codlins, and vine leaves alternately, until it is full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed on the top, and fill the pan with spring water; cover it close to keep in the steam, and set it on a slow fire till the apples become soft. Take them out, and pare off the rinds with a penknife, and then put them into the same water with the vine leaves; hut take care that the water is become quite cold, or it will cause them to crack; put tbera into a little alum, and set them over a slow fire till they are green; then take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup, and give them a gentle boil three successive days; then put them into small jars, with brandy paper over them, and tie them down tight. APPLES, PRESERVED (Golden Pippins). Take the pippins, pare, core, and quarter them, put them into water, and boil them till the strength of the pippins be boiled out, then strain them through a jelly bag, and to 1 lb. add 2 lbs. of double-refined sugar, 1 pint of pippin liquor, and 1 quart of spring water. When your sugar is melted, and your syrup boiled a little and clean skimmed, dry your pippins with a clean cloth, put them into your syrup, take them off the fire a little, and then set them on again; let them boil as fast as you possibly can, having a clear fire under them, till they jelly. You must take them off sometimes, and shake them, but stir them with a spoon. A little before you take them off the fire squeeze the juice of a lemon and an orange into them, which must be first passed through tiffany; give them a boil or two after; then take them up, or they will turn red. At the first putting of your sugar in allow a little more for this juice. You may boil orange or lemoa-peel very tender in spring water, and cut it in thin, long pieces, and then boil them in a little sugar and water, and put them in the bottom of your glasses. Turn your pippins often even in boiling. APPLES AND RAISINS. Pare and cut 12 apples into quarters, and each quarter into six pieces; put them into a pan with 4 ozs. of g.>od fresh butter, 2 oz. of sugar, over which a little orange-peel has been grated, and ^ lb, of currants, well washed ; toss up these ingredients over a moderate fire for a few minutes, and then let them cool. Make a round under-crust 7 inches in diameter ; moisten the edge, and put on it a band of puff-paste f inch high and ^ inch thick. Put your apples, &c., in this so as to form a sort of a dome ; cover them with the puff- paste, taking care that it does not extend beyond the band, upon which it must be pressed down; wash it over with the white of egg, and bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour. When a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, whipped to a strong froth and mixed with 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, and mask with it your cake, sprinkling it with sifted sugar; then, having drained and dried some currants, mix them with sugar and strew them over the dome ; form a crown of small meringues with the remainder of the white of egg and place it on the band; cover this with sifted sugar, and colour the whole of a clear yellow in the oven; and then serve immediately. APPLES AND RICE (1). Scoop out the cores and pare, very neatly, half a dozen good- sized apples ; boil them in thin, clarified sugar; let them imbibe the sugar, and be careful to preserve their form. Make a marmalade with some other apples, adding to it apricot marma- lade and 4 ozs. of rice previously boiled in milk, with sugar, butter, and the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs; put them into a dish for table, surround it with a border of rice, and place the whole apples in the rice and marmalade and bake it. When done, put into the apples a tea- spoonful of any kind of sweatmeat you may think proper. APPLES AND RICE (2). Pare, core, and cut 4 or 5 good apples in quarters; boil some rice in a cloth, and when soft put in the apples; tie up very loose, and boil gently till sufficiently done. APPLES, STEWED. Take to 1 quart of water 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, beaten fine; boil and skim it, and put into it 1 pound of the largest and clearest pippins, pared, cut in halves, and cored; let them boil, covered with a continual froth, till they be as tender and clear as you would have them; then put in the juice of 2 lemons, and a little peel, cut like threads; let them boil up five or six times after the lemon is in ; then put them in a dish or salver. They should be done two hours before they are used. APPLES STEWED IN JELLY. Cut your apples in half; peel, and core them; and as you do them put them into cold water; then cut two apples into small pieces; put the whole into clarified sugar, with a glass of water, and some lemon-juice, and stew them; when sufficiently done, lay them in a dish; make a jelly of the syrup, and pass it through a cloth upon a silver plate, and let it cool and set, and when set, slide it carefully over the fruit. APPLES, STEWED WHOLE. Take 12 apples; pare them ; put the parings into a sauce- pan with water enough to cover them ; a blade of mace; 2 or 3 cloves; a piece of lemon-peel. Let them simmer till there is just enough to stew the pippins in; then strain the liquor and put it into the saucepan again, with sugar enoughAPR [ 88 ] APP to make it like a syrup ; then put the apples in a preserving-pan, or clear stewpan, or large sauce- pan, and pour the syrup over them. Let there be enough to stew them in. When they are done enough, which you will know by the pip- pins being soft, take them up, and lay them in a little dish with the syrup. When cold, serve them up, or hot if you choose. APPLES A LA TURQUE. Neatly pare and pierce out the cores of 8 or 10 apples ; put them on the fire with a thin syrup of clarified sugar; cover them close, and let them simmer gently; turn them so that both sides may be done. When thoroughly done, lay them on a dish with a wet paper over them. Put a paste round the dish you serve them in, and bake it in a gentle oven to harden it. Then put in a layer of apple puree; beat up the whites of 6 eggs to a froth, and add powdered sugar till they appear quite smooth ; make the apples warm, and lay the whites of eggs over them; smooth neatly over and colour in a gentle oven. APRICOT CAKES. Scald, peel, and take the stones from 1 lb. of ripe apricots; beat them to a pulp; boil ^ lb. of double- refined sugar, with a little water, and skim it well; then put in your fruit, and simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, stirring the apricots gently all the time; put them into shallow glasses, and when cold turn them on glass plates; put them in a stove, and turn them once a day till dry. APRICOT CHARLOTTE. Choose 24 fine, plump, but not too ripe apricots; pare and divide them into 8 parts; toss them up in J lb. of fine sugar, and 2 ozs. of warm butter ; in the meantime, line a mould as directed for Apple Charlotte ; pour in the apricots, and finish as usual. When turned on your dish, cover lightly with apricot marmalade, and serve im- mediately. APRICOT CHIPS. Take apricots, pare them, and cut them very thin into chips; then take three-fourths of their weight in sugar, finely sifted, and put the sugar and fruit into a dish, and place it upon a stove of moderate heat. When the sugar is dissolved, turn the chips upon the edge of the dish out of the syrup, and so set them by. Keep turning them till they have absorbed all the syrap, but take care that they never boil. They must be warmed in the syrup once daily, and so laid out on the edge of the dish until, by repetition, all the syrup be drank up by them. APRICOT COMPOTE. Peel, cut, and take the stones from your fruit, and put them on the fire in a little water, and when they rise they are sufiiclently done, and may be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then put them into a little clarified sugar, and give three or four boilings. Skim them well, and then put your fruit aside. Boil the sugar alone four or five times more, and pour it over the apricots When cold, place them in a compotier APRICOT CREAM. Cut in pieces 15 fine ripe apricots; choose them of a nice red colour. Boil them in 4 ozs. of clarified sumr. When reduced to a thin marmalade, beat them through a sieve; then boil 4 glasses of milk, with 6 ozs. of sugar, and one grain of salt, and mi-x: by degrees with the yolks of 8 eggs, constantly stirring it with a wooden spoon; then cream it over a moderate fire, after which it must be strained through a sieve. Add 6 drachms of isinglass. As soon as it is cool, pour it gently on the apricot marmalade, stirring it gradually until the whole is well mixed together; then pour it into a mould, which should be previously rubbed with the oil of sweet almonds; then surroimd the mould with ice; cover your cream with a piece of paper or the lid of a saucepan. After the cream has been in the mould for two hours, gently turn it out upon a dish, and serve. The advantage arising from rubbing the moulds with the oil of sweet almonds is, preventing the necessity of dipping the moulds into warm water to get the cream out easily, which is rather a long operation. APRICOT CUSTARD. Cut 20 fine apricots in half, take out the stones, toss up 12 apricots in 4 ozs. of powdered sugar, and place them in a cream, according to the directions for Apple Costard; bake and glaze as therein directed. Put 1 glass of water and J lb. of powdered sugar with the rest of the fruit into a preserving-pan. When the syrup is properly reduced, take the skin from the apricots, and arrange them iii the custard; garnish each half apricot with a kernel, and, when ready to serve, pour the syrup upon it. Serve it hot or cold. APRICOT JAM. Weigh equal quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of apricots ; cut and pare them quite small; as they are done, strew over half of the sugar. The following day boil the remainder, and add the apricots; stir it till it boils ; take off the scum, and when perfectly clear, add part of the kernels, blanched, and boil it two or three minutes. APRICOT MARMALADE. Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them those that are of the deepest yellow and ripe; they must not be too ripe. Peel them, take out the stones; weigh 12 lbs. of the flesh of the fruit; cut it small, and put it in a preserving- pan with 9 lbs. of powdered sugar. Place your pan over a quick fire, and keep your preparation constantly stirred with a wooden spoon. To find out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, let a few drops fall into a glass of coldAPR APR [ 39 ] water, and if they do not spread, your mar- malade is ready to put into pots. Another method of ascertaining when marmalade is done, is by taking some on the end of the finger and thumb, and rubbing them together. If on separating them you find the marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficiently done. APRICOT PETITS GATEAUX (Small Apeicot Cakes). Roll out some puff-paste very thin and divide it into 2 equal parts, each of which should be 13 inches long and 8 inches wide. Moisten a baking-tin to hold one of these layers, on which pour a pot of apricot marmalade and spread it, of an equal thickness, to within ■J inch of the edge of the paste, which moisten lightly; then roll your other layer round your rolling-pin and begin to place it on the first; unroll it gradually and carefully, and thus cover the whole of your marmalade; press the edges of both together, wash the upper layer with yolk of egg, well-beaten, and then with a knife mark a line across the middle, taking care not to go so deep as to divide the paste; with equal care mark three lines on each side and parallel to the first, keeping them at equal distances, say 2 J inches between every line. Then mark it tlie long way, so as to make twenty cakes all of the same size, and bake it in a quick oven, and when the under side is of a good colour you may take it out and glaze. When your gateaux are cold divide them according to the marks, which may be varied to your taste; either lozenges, crescents, circles, &c. When of the above-mentioned form, with the point of a knife, mark on each cake an ear of corn, or any other design you may choose, before baking. Take care, in thus marking the paste, to divide, but not to cut it through. APRICOT PETITS GATEAUX GLACES (Small Apeicot Cakes, Glazed). Make an under crust of puff-paste, which cover with apricot marmalade, carefully removing any particle of the kernels; put it in a moderate oven, and when the paste is sufficiently done take it out and let it cool; then cut your cakes in the usual shapes. The apricots should be of a reddish colour when glazed. APRICOT TART. Cut each apricot in two and break the stones ; if the fruit is not ripe enough, boil a little while in water; then drain them well; put them into paste with sugar, a little preserved lemon, and a few of the kernels; cover the tart, strew sugar over, and glaze it. APRICOT WINE. Pare and take the stones from ripe apricots ; bruise and put them into 6 quarts of water and 1 quart of white wine, simmer gently for a considerable time; when the fruit is soft pour the liquor to apricots pre- pared as the others ; let it stand twelve hours, stirring occasionally; pour off the liquor and press the remains through a fine hair bag, and put them together in a cask to ferment; put in 1 lb. of sugar to each gallon. Boil 1 oz. of mace and ^ oz. of nutmeg in 1 quart of white wine, and while hot pour it into the fermenting wine, and hang a bunch of fresh borage in the cask for three days. Draw it off and keep iu bottles. APRICOTS, BOTTLED. Press the quan- tity of ripe apricots you may require through a horsehair sieve; put the pulp into bottles; cork them very close, and tie them over; place these bottles upright in a large saucepan, with hay between them to prevent their touching; put the saucepan on the fire, and fill it with water. When the water is nearly boiling, take it off and let it stand till the bottles are cold; then put them in a cellar, without touching each other, until wanted, when they will be found as good to use as fresh fruit. The apricots may also be preserved whole by the same means. APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh equal quantities of loaf sugar and apricots; scald them and take off the skin; clarify and boil the sugar; put the fruit into it, and let it remain for two or three days. Put the apricots into glasses. Mix with the syrup the best pale brandy, half and half, and pour it over the apricots, and keep them close covered. Peaches and nectarines may be done in the same way. APRICOTS, DRIED. Pare the apricots, and carefully take out the stones; blanch the kernels, and put them into the apricots; strew over 1 lb. of fruit the same quantity of finely- pounded loaf sugar, and let them stand till the sugar has extracted the juice ; then boil all gently. When the fruit is tender, take it out with care, and boil the syrup till very rich; pour it over the fruit, and in three days put it into dishes, and dry them in the sun under garden glasses, turning once or twice to keep the shape as round as possible. Any inferior apricots may be cut down and boiled in the syrup for tarts. APRICOTS, PRESERVED. Pare your apricots and stone what you can whole; then give them a light boiling in water proportioned to the quantity of fruit, only just enough ; then take the weight of the apricots in sugar, and take the liquor in which they have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till it comes to a syrup, and give them a light boiling, taking off the scum as it rises. When the syrup jellies it is done enough; then take up the apricots and cover them with the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay them down when cold. APRIL. The articles which axe in season during this month are—ARN [ 40 ] AEG Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb. Poultry and game. Turkeys, turkey poults, Guinea fowl, green geese, fowls, spring chickens, ducklings (no wild fowl), pigeons, rabbits, wild rabbits, leverets. Fish. Brill, cod, cockles, carp, crabs, conger eels, dabbs, John Dory, eels, flounders, herrings, lobsters, lings, mullets, mussels, oysters, perch, plaice, salmon, soles, shrimps, sturgeon, skate, tench, turbot, and whiting. Vegetables. Cabbages, colewort, broccoli, greens, spinach, French beans (forced), carrots (forced), green peas (foreign), parsnips, beet, pota- toes, onions, young onions, turnips, leeks, horse- radish, lettuce, endive, chervil, celery, radishes, watercresses, small salad, artichokes (foreign), asparagus, sea-kale, rhubarb, cucumbers, mush- rooms, and herbs. Fruit. Pine-apples, grapes, peaches and nec- tarines (forced), cherries (forced), strawberries (forced), apples, pears, oranges, lemons, raisins, almonds, nuts, walnuts, chestnuts. ARGAND LAMP. This is so named after its inventor, a Frenchman. The wick being cylindrical admits air to both sides of a very thin sheet of flame, and, consequently, renders the combustion, or burning, of the oil much more complete than where a common solid wick is employed, and the air can only reach the out- side of the flame. The wick of the moderator lamp is like that of the Argand lamp, and differs from it chiefly in having the oil forced up to the wick, whereas, in the Argand lamp, the oil reaches the wick only by its own gravity. The management of a lamp of any kind is rather a difficult business, therefore great care should be taken in the purchase, to obtain one from a maker of known reputation, for the cheap ones, particularly those picked up as bargains in brokers' shops, are always out of repair. The principle of the Argand lamp is, that a free current of air should be drawn through the centre of the flame, and to ensure this, it is necessary to clean the lamp frequently, and remove any dust or impurities from the oil or charcoal of the wick, which collects round the small holes in the rim, through which the cold air is drawn. If the lamp is used every night it should be cleaned daily. The methodical mode is this:—Remove the shade carefully before you soil your hands with the oil. Pro- vide a basin of warm water (a little above blood heat), and in this first wash the glass chimney, then pour the oil from the fountain, and remove any sediment from about the brass work. Screw up the wick, and if it is not long enough for the time it may probably be re- quired to burn, replace it with a fresh one by means of the stick. Having washed all the brass work, wipe the parts carefully, screw everything in its former position, and take care in replacing the wick that the small notch at the side of the brass enters the groove which is sunk to receive it; turn it up and down once or twice to make sure that it works freely; then prime it (that is, singe the top), replace the fountain (filled with oil), chimney and shade; the lamp is ready for use. Purchase the best oil—the inferior qualities emit an offensive smell, and produce so much sediment that the delicate work of the lamp is quickly clogged, and the current of air impeded, which causes it to burn dimly. Occasionally it is necessary to wash the shade, which should be done in clean water, lukewarm, with the admixture of a little soda, which removes all stains, and does not injure the appearance of the ground glass. The glass chimneys will sometimes crack with the heat, particularly in frosty weather. This may be prevented by scoring a small notch in the glass at top and bottom. ARM, BROKEN. When the arm is broken between the shoulder and the elbow the patient should be seated on a chair near a table, or any- thing of a convenient height; the elbow bent, and supported by a pillow placed between the ribs and the elbow, and a surgeon sent for as quickly as possible. If the attendance of a surgeon cannot be obtained for some hours, the patient's dress should be removed by ripping it open at the seams, as all attempts to draw out the patient's arm from the garment will only cause extra pain and irritation. The patient should then be put to bed, and the hand of the fractured arm be placed across his body, and the elbow and upper part of the arm sup- ported by a pillow. If the arm is broken be- tween the elbow and the wrist, the patient's arm is to be bent as before with the baud and fore- arm resting on a pillow. If there is likely to be any delay befoi'e a surgeon can be procured, let the patient be put to bed, the clothes being removed as before directed, and the whole ai'm be rested on a pillow placed by the side of the patient, the elbow being slightly bent, and the back of the hand upwards. In both cases the parts about the fracture should be enveloped in a cloth wetted in cold water, and be kept constantly wetted, for the purpose of checking the swelling and inflammation, which would in- terfere with the surgeon's setting the bone. ARNATTO. Arnatto, or annatto, a red dye- ing drug, produced from the pulp of the seed- vessels of a shrub [Bixa orellana) which grows spontaneously in the East and West Indies. The principal consumption is by painters and dyers ; and Scott's nankeen dye is arnatto in alkaline lye. Dutch farmers use it to colour butter, and Gloucester and other kinds of cheese are coloured with it. The bark is manu-ARO [ 41 ] ARO factured into ropes, and pieces of the wood are employed to procure fire by friction. AROMATICS. For the following we are indebted to the excellent " Encyclopaedia," pub- lished by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. Aromatics are obtained from plants which exercise a peculiar influence over the digestive powers, and possess more or less fra- grance. This fragrance usually arises from an essential or volatile oil. Indeed, volatile oil exists in all aromatic plants; but this aromatic oil does not reside in the same part in every kind of plant. In umbelliferous plants we find it mostly in the fruits; yet in angelica, celery, and parsley, it is diffused through the whole structure. Labiate plants, such as mint, balm, rosemary, and lavender, have it in the leaves and stem; cinnamon in the bark; all turpentine plants in their young branches. The Iris Flo- rentina (orris) and others have it chiefly in the root; the scitamineae sometimes in the root, as ginger, and sometimes in the seeds, as carda- moms. The rose and camomile have it in the petals, yet it is not equal in all the petals of the camomile, being greatest in the yellow florets of the disc. Hence, doubling the flowers of the camomile, by which the yellow florets of the disc are diminished, and the white florets of the ray increased, lessens the virtues of the flowers. The power of medicines is frequently judged of by their sensible qualities, that is, by the impression which they make on the organs of smell and taste , aromatics affect both of these senses in a very perceptible and sometimes extraordinary manner. Scarcely any one is in- sensible to the odour of particular flowers, and some are affected by them to an extraordinary degree. The approach to Ceylon can be deter- mined by the fragrance of the air at a distance of many miles; the Magnolia glauca (beaver- tree, or swamp magnolia) diffuses an odour by ■which it can be recognised at the distance of three miles, among the swampy -districts, and, consequently, moist atmosphere, in which it grows. This powerfully affects many persons while travelling or hunting ; and the Magnolia tripetala causes sickness, headache, and an ag- gravation of fevers or rheumatism, among those near it who are labouring under these complaints. The odour of the jonquils and other fragrant plants raised in Holland is so great when brought into a room or close apartment as to be quite overpowering. In such countries or places as have a very moist atmosphere, the odour of plants is most readily diffused as well as most potent; of this we may satisfy ourselves by calling to mind the greater fragrance of flowers early in the morning, in the evening, or after a shower. This accounts for the violent action of the plants in the countries just mentioned; hut even many plants of Britain affect some indi- viduals, endowed with a peculiar and excessive sensibility, to an extreme degree. The sweet- scented violet has such an effect on some per- sons as to occasion headache, convulsions, and apoplexy. Aromatics are seldom applied to the organ of smell for the purpose of influencing the system in a remedial manner, except in the form of aromatic vinegar, in threatened or actual fainting. We shall therefore proceed to consider their action upon the palate and stomach. As all aromatics contain volatile oil their action is generally referred to this principle ; but there cannot be a doubt that the more fixed principles which they contain contribute greatly to that effect. Volatile oils, when separated, act chiefly on the nervous system ; but aromatics influence more particularly the digestive organs, the func- tion of assimilation, and the generation of animal heat. They are themselves digested ; but previous to this process commencing, or going any length, they produce, by direct contact with the internal surfaces, a peculiar effect, which we perceive beginning at the lips and palate, and accompanying them in their progress to the stomach. They scarcely excite any general action of the system ; but expend their power chiefly upon the stomach, and in a less degree upon the intestinal canal, increasing the vital force of the former, and quickening the mus- cular action of the latter. They also com- municate to the stomach a greater power of resistance to unpleasant sensations, as under their influence many articles can be borne by it which would otherwise be rejected, and this hap- pens equally with regard to food and medicines. The mixture of aromatics renders them more agreeable than when given alone, and this is exemplified both in their medical and culinary employment, as no good cook will use only one spice if she can procure more. The aromatic powder and aromatic confection are compounded on this principle for medical use, and Dr. Kitchener's zest for culinary purposes. The necessity for the employment of aromatics is greater in warm climates and weather than in cold, and we find the plants which furnish them grow in the greatest abundance in hot countries. The pepper tribe (Piperacea), for example, is confined to the hottest parts of the world, such as tropical America and the Indian Archipelago. Forty species of pepper are met with in the island of Java alone. Throughout the East Indies the natives restore the powers of the stomach by chewing betel, which con- sists of slices of the areca nut, sprinkled with fresh lime, wrapped up along with some other aromatic in a leaf of the Fijper betel. The[ 42 ] AEO ARO Indians of South America use the Erythroxy- luvi Peruvianum (called cocoa) along mth the leaves of the Chenopodium Quinoa, mixed with quicklime, to stimulate the impaired powers of the stomach during their long and toilsome journeys over the heights of the Andes. On the same principle, the Europeans who visit tropical countries use curry and other hot dishes. But in every quarter of the globe we find condi- ments used along with all articles difficult of digestion, especially yegetables, fish, and young meats, such as veal. Aromatics are, therefore, employed both to prevent and cure diseased states of the stomach, and to assist the action of other remedies. In simple loss of appe- tite, without any other obvious disease, or in slow digestion, they may be employed in the form of the warmer pickles during dinner, or preserved ginger after dinner. In many cases of fever in warm climates, the stomach is so powerless that it cannot ex- tract from cinchona bark, or other febrifuge medicines, the principles fitted to cure the disease, unless aided by aromatics. Hence Cayenne pepper is added to them ; and, in- deed, Cayenne pepper will often cure the fever without any bark. Lately piperin (the active principle of pepper) has been recommended as a means of curing fevers in Europe; and certain it is, that some lingering fevers, of the intermittent character, occurring in old or feeble persons, cannot be cured without the assistance of aromatics. It may be stated, however, that piperin, when pure, has no aromatic property. The preparation of iron (carbonate), which is found to be so useful in curing tic-douloureux, can rarely be borne by the stomach for such a length of time, or in such large doses as are necessary, without adding aromatics to it. They are also very beneficially added to aloetic purga- tives, for the treatment of indigestion and con- stipation occurring in literary and sedentary persons. Aromatics are frequently used to disguise the unpleasant taste of many medi- cines. The disagreeable taste of aloes is con- cealed by adding the aromatic or compound spirit of lavender, and the intensely bitter taste of the sulphate of quinia is nearly covered by mixing one part of it with ten or fifteen parts of powdered valerian, fennel, aniseed, or orange-peel. Aromatics are most-suited to persons of a phlegmatic constitution, or those advanced in life: less so to the young, or those of very irritable constitutions. They are to be alto- gether prohibited in certain states of the stomach, or system generally. "When there exists any inflammatory condition of the stomach, they would be very improper. And it is necessary to observe that, in all degrees and stages of inflammation of the stomach, debility more or less is felt by the patient, which might seem to indicate then- use ; but, under such circumstances, they are extremely hurtful. The same observations apply to the aromatic teas, such as balm and sage, in com- mon use among the people. In certain affections of the brain, such as when there is a tendency to apoplexy, they are improper. Cullen mentions the case of a gen- tleman, who, having taken by mistake 2 di'achms of powdered nutmeg, in about an hour became drowsy, and fell from his chair. Being laid in bed, he dropped asleep, but awoke from time to time, and was quite delirious. He thus con- tinued alternately sleeping and delirious for several hours. Even the following day he still complained of headache and drowsiness. In the East such cases are of frequent occurrence. Persons predisposed to affections of the brain should abstain from such articles, especially mulled wine at bed-time.—[Humboldt, " Penny Cyclopaedia.") AROMATIC LOZENGES OF STEEL. Sulphate of iron, 3 drachms; sugar, 16ozs.; tincture of cantharides, 1 oz. ; essence of orange, 30 drops; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough to make into a paste; roll out thin, and cut into 280 lozenges. AROMATIC MIXTURE. Cinnamon water, 5 ozs. fluid ; compound tincture of cinnamon and syrup of ginger, of each ^ oz. fluid. Mix them, and take 2 table-spoonsful occasionally. Removes flatulence, and promotes digestion in some stomachs. AROMATIC POWDERS (1). Compound powder of cinnamon, 1 scruple; carbonate of ammonia, 4 grains. Make a powder to be taken two hours before and after dinner in cinnamon or peppermint water. AROMATIC POWDERS (2). Ginger pow- dered and carbonate of ammonia, of each 5 grains ; cinnamon powdered, 1 scruple. Mix, and take as above. AROMATIC VINEGAR is a stimulating, fragrant solution of various essential oils and camphor in vinegar (acetic acid). This is some- times called thieves' vinegar, a name said to have been applied to it because, when four thieves were condemned to execution for plundering the bodies of those who died of the plague at Marseilles, they compounded for their lives, by revealing that they preserved themselves from contagion by using this vinegar. In France it is known as vinaigre des quatre voleurs. An aromatic vinegar may be made very promptly, by putting into a glass-stoppered bottle 1 drachm of acetate of potash, 2 drops each of oils of rosemary and lavender, or any other essential oil, and 20 drops of sulphurioAEQ r 43 ] acid. The following, however, are the regular recipes for making it. Take rosemary leaves and marjoram leaves, both dried, of each 1 oz.; of lavender flowers, dried, H oz.; cloves, bruised, 1 drachm ; strong acetic acid, 1^ pint. Mix them together, and let them remain seven days ; strain ; press the leaves very strongly; filter through blotting-paper. Or, to strongest acetic acid, 1 pint, add 2 ozs. of camphor, I drachm of oil of lavender, 20 drops oil of cinnamon, 80 drops oil of cloves, and 30 drops oil of rose- mary. Mix, let it stand for twenty-four hours, and strain through blotting-paper. ARQUEBUSADE WATER. Take dried mint and dried angelica tops, of each ^ lb.; dried wormwood, ^ lb.; angelica seeds, 2-^- ozs.; oil of juniper, J drachm; spirit of rosemary, 2 pints; rectified spirit, 2^ gallons; water, 2 gallons. Mix and distil over three gallons. This has long been celebrated as beneficial for bathing bruises, and for washing ulcers and wounds. ARRACK. Arrack, the East Indian name for all ardent spirits. It is chiefly distilled at Goa, from the fermented juice of the cocoa-nut, called toddy. At Batavia, it is a distillation from the fermentation of rice and sugar; but they use copper stills, while at Goa they make a very superior and strong article from toddy in stills of earthenware. China arrack is obtained from rice or millet. ARRACK, MOCK. Dissolve 2 scruples of flowers of benzoin in 1 quart of good rum, and it will immediately impart to it the inviting fragrance of Vauxhall nectar; so called because VauxhalL Gardens were once celebrated for arrack punch. ARROWROOT. Arrowroot is starch, manu- factured from the root of a plant, the Maranta arundinacea, cultivated in gardens in the East and West Indies. It is about two feet in height. The roots are dug when a year old, well washed, and beaten in deep wooden mortars till reduced to a milky pulp. This is washed again in clear water, and the fibrous parts carefully separated. It is next passed through a sieve, and suffered to stand till the starch has settled. The water is then drawn off, and the white residue is again washed ; after which the pulp, when dried in the sun, is found to be pure starch, which, re- duced to a powder, is arrowroot. No vegetable, except salep or orchis-root, yields so large a quantity of mucilage. As an article of diet it is invaluable, especially in bowel complaints. The purest is the Antigua and Jamaica or Ber- muda. Too much that is sold is the fecula of potatoes, 100 lbs of which yield 10 lbs. of what is called ari'owroot. In no article of diet have greater impositions been practised than in arrowroot. The farina of mealy potatoes has been very generally sold for it, or used to adulterate it. The colour of the potato-starch is more white than that of the best arrowroot of the West Indies, and with boiling water it forms a good jelly; but in the course of twelve hours it becomes nearly as thin as milk, and sour. Hence the potato- flour is an uidiealthy article of diet for infants and invalids. The arrowroot of Antigua appears to be superior to that of Jamaica. The jelly it forms with boiling water continues firm for three or four days, and does not become sour for several days. Of this arrowroot there are two or three qualities, which depend upon the num- ber of washings to which it has been subjected for the purpose of bleaching it. When well washed with good water it is nearly as white as the potato-starch; but by much washing its glutinous quality is diminished, and it is conse- quently less nutritious. The second quality, which is equally pure, although not so white, affords the strongest jelly, and therefore, as a food for children, should be preferred. ARROWROOT: To Prepare (1). Put a dessert-spoonful of the powder into a basin, and mix with it as much cold new milk as will form a paste. Pour thereon ^ pint of milk, scalding hot, and stir it well to keep it smooth. Set it on the fire till it is ready to boil, take it off, pour it into a basin and let it cool. ARROWROOT: To Prepare (2). Mix with 2 or 3 table-spoonsful of arrowroot ^ pint of cold water; let it stand for nearly a quarter of an hour; pour off the water, and stir in some pounded sugar ; boil 1 pint of milk, and pour it gradually upon the arrowroot, stirring it one way all the time. Or it may be made with water in which lemon-peel has been boiled, and then a glass of port or white wine, and a little nutmeg stirred into it. ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE (1). Take a tea-cupful of arrowroot to a pint of milk; boil the milk with 12 sweet and 6 bitter almonds, blanched and pounded ; sweeten with loaf sugar, and strain it; break the arrowroot with a little of the milk as smooth as possible ; pour the boiling milk on it by degrees, stirring all the while ; put it back into the pan ; let it boil a few minutes, still stirring; dip the shape in cold water before you put it in, and turn it out when cold. ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE (2). Mix i pint of cold water with 2 ozs. of arrowroot; let it settle for fifteen minutes ; pour off the water, and add a table-spoonful of laurel water and a little sugar. Sweeten 1 quart of new milk ; boil it with a little cinnamon and half the peel of a lemon ; pick out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the boiling milk upon the arrowroot, stirring it all the time. Put it into 6 mould, and tuna it out on the following day-[ 44 ] ARS ARR If you cannot procure laurel water boil five or six bay leaves with tlie cinnamon and lemon in the milk, which will communicate the desired flavour. ARROWROOT CREAM. Mix a table- spoonful of arrowroot with a tea-cupful of water; let it settle, and pour the water off. Sweeten and boil a quart of milk with some peel of a lemon and some cinnamon; pick them out, and pour it upon boiling arrowroot, stirring it well and frequently till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china dish, with or without grated nutmeg on the top. It may be eaten with any preserved fruit or fruit tarts. ARROWROOT PUDDING. From 1 quart of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and mix it with 2 large table-spoonsful of arrowroot. Boil the remainder of the milk, and stir it amongst the arrowroot; add, when nearly cold, 4 well- beaten yolks of eggs, with 2 ozs. of pounded loaf sugar, and the same quantity of fresh butter, broken into small bits; season with grated nutmeg. Mix it well together, and bake it in a buttered dish fifteen or twenty minutes. ARSENIC is a brilliant metal of a bluish- white colour, found, combined with copper and other metals, in Cornwall, Devonshire, and Stirlingshire, as well as in many parts of the European continent. When exposed to the air it soon combines with its oxygen, and forms arsenious acid, commonly called white arsenic, and so well known for its deadly consequences as a poison. Arsenic in its metallic state is used to alloy copper and render it of a paler colour preparatory to its being coated with silver; it is mixed with other metals to form the specula of reflecting telescopes, and with lead to form small shot, as it renders the lead more brittle and better capable of separating into globules. The oxides of arsenic are used in the manufacture of glass, rendering flint glass more clear. The white arsenic is often given in medicine, and Dr. Pearson said that in the quantity of one-sixteenth of a grain it is as harmless as a glass of wine, and in that quantity is a remedy for an inveterate ague; indeed, it is the active agent in the taste- less ague drop. It is given also in chronic diseases of the skin, and is the basis of the Tanjore pill, long celebrated in India as a specific against the bite of the cobra di capello, and other venomous snakes. During the plague in London, about two centuries since, amulets of white arsenic were suspended over the region of the heart, as a preservative against infection. Combined with sulphur in different proportions, it forms the red paint realgar, and the yellow paint orpiment. It is with white arsenic ag a poison that we are chiefly concerned in this work; and we have to consider the symptoms exhibited by those who have swallowed it, and the treatment to be adopted. For the following we are indebted to Dr. Beck's valuable work on " Medical Juris- prudence." 1. V/here death ensues between twentij-four hours and two or three days is the most common of all. The earliest symptom is siclmess or faint- ness, and this often occurs within a few minutes after the poison is swallowed. But, in a ma- jority of instances, it does not happen for half an hour. Pain in the region of the stomach succeeds, and this, most commonly, is of a burning kind, and much aggravated by pres- sure. Violent fits of vomiting and retching come on, with a dryness, heat, and tightness in the throat, creating an incessant desire for drink. Hoarseness and difficulty of speech are commonly combined with these. The matter vomited is greenish or yellowish, but sometimes it is streaked or mixed with blood, particularly if the case be protracted beyond a day. It must, however, be understood, that the affection of the throat, as above described, is not always present, while again it is some- times so severe as to be attended with fits of suffocation and convulsive vomiting at the sight of fluids. Diarrhoea generally, but not always, follows, or in its place are ineffectual attempts, and the abdomen is tense and tender, and sometimes also swollen. When the diarrhoea is severe, the rectum is commonly excoriated. Burning heat is felt at the part, and this pain will ex- tend along the whole course of the alimeutary canal. Even the mouth and lips are inflamed, and present dark specks or blisters. The lungs are also affected in these instances. Shortness of breath, tightness across the chest, and, in a few cases, actual inflammation, have been the result. There is a frequent and pain- ful micturition, and the genital organs in both sexes are painful and swollen. In one case there was a suppression of urine for several days. When the symptoms of irritation in the alimentary canal have subsided for some hours, convulsive motions often occur ; such as tremors and twitches of the trunk or the whole body; cramps of the legs and arms are also common. The pulse is feeble and rapid ; the skin cold ; clammy sweats break out, and the feet and hands are livid. The countenance betrays great anxiety; the eyes are red and sparkling; the tongue and mouth parched, and sometimes little white ulcers break out on the velum and palate. Delirium sometimes accompanies the advanced stage, and stupor also is not unfrequent. Death, in general, comes on calmly, but is sometimes preceded by a paroxysm of convulsions. In most cases, the above symptoms are morer 45 ] ART ARS or less uniformly observed, but there are some peculiarities and varieties which must also be stated. Eruptions are not unfrequent in those who survive several days, but they are more gene- rally seen in chronic cases. Swelling of the body, but particularly around the eyes, has also been noticed. Pain and vomiting are sometimes wanting, and even on pressure the former has not been recognised. Again, the pulse has occasionally been found very slow, not more than forty beats in a minute. If death be somewhat retarded, there is not unfrequently a remission of all the distressing symptoms, and the patient is then in a dozing stupor. This usually happens about the second day, but it is merely temporary, and the symp- toms return speedily with equal or increased violence. It must be remembered that many cases are on record where this train of symptoms is followed by death in a few hours, from three to six, and yet the indications of irritation of the alimentary canal have been perfectly well marked during life, and verified by dissection after death, 2. The second variety of poisoning includes those cases in which death ensues in Jive or six hours, or a little more, at a period too early for inflammation to be always properly developed, and accordingly the symptoms are by no means so striking as in the first variety. On animals the eifects were almost narcotic; but in man they are far from being so distinctly marked. In some instances of this kind vomiting occurs at the usual period after taking the poison, but it seldom continues. The most uniform effect is extreme fainting, amounting at times to deliquium. Occasionally there is some stupor, or, rather, oppression, and often slight convulsions. The pain at the pit of the stomach is slight, and seldom accompanied with the other signs of internal inflammation. 3. The third variety is when life is prolonged six, eight, or ten days, or even is saved after some illness. Here the early symptoms are the same as those of the first or inflammatory variety, but the subsequent ones are referable to nervous irritation. They generally come on when the former begin to recede, yet they sometimes make their appearance while the symptoms of inflammation are still violent. They vary in different individuals from coma to an imperfect palsy of the arms and legs, and between these extremes are observed epileptic fits or tetanus. Thus, in a case of Dr. Roget's, after recovery from the ordinary effects, the patient was seized with epileptic fits on the sixth day, and they returned occasionally until the ninteenth. In Mr. Tur- ner's family, supposed to be poisoned by Eliza Fanning, twitches, numbness, and epileptic fits. occurred in different individuals. Pyl mentious a case where tetanus was present; and partial palsy of the extremities has been noticed by De Haen, Mr. Murray, of Alford, Professor Bernt, Dr. Falconer, and others. Among the occasional results when life is saved, are irritability of the stomach, attended with constant vomiting of food—loss of the hair and desquamation of the cuticle. Soreness and inflammation of the eyes are frequently mentioned as occurring. 1. Remove the poison; and 2. Prevent its injurious consequences on the stomach and system generally. The first is attempted by means of an emetic, as the sulphate of zinc ; but if vomiting be present, we may aid it by diluents in small quantities. Tartrite of antimony should never be given. But when vomiting does not take place im- mediately from the means just directed, the urgency of the case warrants us in using more direct remedies. Renault recommends that the stomach be washed and emptied mechanically, by means of a large tube of elastic gum and a syringe. In this way a certain quantity of liquid may be thrown in to dilute or suspend the poison, and by the action of syringe the whole may be again withdrawn. The stomach- pump has in this way proved a useful assistant in some cases, but it is probably most valuable in instances of poisoning with opium. 3. In several instances the free use of mag- nesia has proved of service. Mr. Joseph Hume was, I believe, the first who administered this article. Copious vomitings had already occurred, and retchings and pain continued. Under these circumstances, he gave carbonate of magnesia very freely with tincture of opium, suspended in water. In five days the patient was well. Inflammation of the stomach is not an un- common secondary consequence in those who survive, and Dr. Yeiloly first suggested that it should be treated accordingly. In Dr. Roget's case it succeeded perfectly; and several instances have since occurred in which venesection, blis- ters, &c., were used with the happiest results. Opium, after free depletion, is also useful. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Dried). Pluck your artichokes from the stalks just before they come to their full growth, which draws out all the strings from the bottoms; boil them till you can easily take off the leaves; then lay the bottoms on this, and set them in a cool oven. Repeat this until they are dry, which you may know by holding them up against the light, when, if they are dry enough, they will appear transparent. Put them into paper bags, hang them up in a dry place, and they will keep good the greater part, if not the whole of the year.[ 46 ] ASA AET ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Fricaseed). These may be fricaseed either dried or pickled. If dried, lay them in water three or four hours, shifting the water two or three times. Having done this, put some cream into your saucepan, with a large piece of fresh butter, and stir them together one way till the butter is melted ; then put in the artichokes, and when they are hot dish them up. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Fried). Blanch them in water; then flour them, and fry them in fresh butter; lay them in your dish, and pour melted butter over them for sauce; or you may put a little red wine into the butter, and season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Pickled). Boil your artichokes till you can pull off all the leaves, and thoroughly clear the bottom; put them into salt and water for an hour; then take them out, and lay them in a cloth to drain. When they are dry put them into large, wide- mouthed glasses, with a little mace and sliced nutmeg between, and fill them with distilled vinegar; cover them with mutton fat, melted, and tie them down with leather or bladder. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Ragodted). Soak them in warm water for two or three hours, changing the water; then put them into a stew- pan with some good gravy, mushroom catsup or powder, and a little Cayenne pepper and salt. When they boil thicken with a little flour; put them into your dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve them up hot. ARTICHOKE AND EGGS. Boil the plants in hard water, but if dry, in soft. Throw a lump of butter into the water, and when you take out the bottom place the yolk of a hard egg in the middle of each. Pour thereon melted butter, and serve them up. Asparagus may be added between the artichokes. ARTICHOKE PIE. Boil 12 artichokes, break olf the leaves and chokes, and take the bottoms clear from the stalks. Make a good puff-crust, and lay ^Ib. of fresh butter all over the bottom of your pie. Then lay a row of artichokes; strew a little pepper, salt, and beaten mace over them; then another row; strew the rest of your spice over them, and put in ^ lb. more butter, cut in little bits. Take i- oz. of truifles and very small morels, and throw them all over the pie. Pour in a gill of white wine; cover your pie and bake it until the crust is done. ARTICHOKE SALAD. Trim and blanch your artichokes; drain, cut them in quarters, .and put them in a dish; garnish the spaces between each with sweet herbs; dress it with the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 spoonful of \-inegar, 2 spoonsful of oil, sweet herbs, chopped fine, salt and pepper. ARTICHOKES A LA BARIGOULE. Take 2 or 3 artichokes, according to the size of your dish; cut away the stalk and half the leaves; put them into a stewpan with a little stock or water, 2 spoonsful of good oil, a little salt and pepper, 1 onion, 2 roots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil the whole until the sauce is nearly consumed; then fry the artichokes to make them crisp ; next put them into a baking- dish with the sauce that remains ; take out the choke, and colour the leaves with a salamander or in a hot oven. Serve with a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. ARTICHOKES, BOILED. Twist off the stalks; then put them into cold water, and wash them well; when the water boils, put them in with the tops downwards, that all the dust and sand may boil out. About an hour and a half or two hours wiU do them. Serve them up with melted butter in cups. ARTICHOKES, FRIED. Cut your arti- chokes, according to their size, in four or eight pieces; take out the choke, and clear- out the large leaves; have melted butter in a basin. Some pour melted butter over them; but this is injudicious, as it makes the handling of them very disagreeable. ASAFGilTIDA. The gum-resin known by this name is produced from a plant not unlike the cow parsnip, and called Ferula asafcetida. Asafcetida is the concrete juice of the root of this plant, which is procured in the following manner on the mountains in the provinces of Chorasaan and Laar in Persia. At that season of the year when the leaves begin to decay, the oldest plants are selected for this pm'pose. First the firm earth which encompasses the root is rendered light by digging, and part of it cleared away, so as to leave a portion of the upper part of the root above the ground; the leaves and stalk are then twisted off and used with other vege- tables for a covering to screen it from the sun, and upon this covering a stoue is placed to prevent the ^^^nds from blowing it down. In this state the root is left for forty days, after which the covering is removed, and the top of the root cut off transversely; it is then screened again from the sun for forty-eight hours, which is thought a sufficient time for the juice to exude upon the wounded surface of the root, when the juice is scraped off by a proper instrument, and exposed to the sun to harden ; this being done, a second transverse section of the root is made, but no thicker than is necessary to remove the remaining superficial concretions which would otherwise obstruct the farther effusion of fresh juice; the screening is then again employed for forty-eight hours, and the juice obtained a second time, as before mentioned. In this way the asafo3tida is eight times repeatedly coUecteti[ 47 ] ASA ASP from each root; observing, however, that after every third section the root is always suffered to remain unmolested for eight or ten days, in order that it may recover a sufficient stock of juice. Thus, to exhaust one root of its juice, computing from the first time of collecting it to the last, a period of neai'ly six weeks is required, when the root is abandoned and soon perishes. The whole of this business is conducted by the peasants who live in the neighbourhood of the mountains where the drug is procured; and as they collect the juice from a number of roots at the same time, and expose it in one common place to harden, the sun soon gives it that consistence and appearance in which it is imported into Europe. Asafoetida has a bitter, acrid, p'angent taste, and is well known by its peculiar nauseous, fetid, garlic smell, the strength of which is the surest test of its goodness. This odour is ex- tremely volatile, and of course the drug loses much of its efficacy by keeping. According to Kaemfer's account, the juice is infinitely more odorate when recent than when in the state brought to us. " We have this drug in large irregular masses of a heterogeneous appearance, composed of various shining little lumps or grains, which are partly whitish, partly of a brownish or reddish, and partly of a violet hue. Those masses are accounted the best which are clear, of a pale reddish colour, and variegated with a great number of fine white tears. Asa- foetida is composed of a gummy and a resinous substance, the first in largest quantity. Its smell and taste reside in the resin, which is readily dissolved and extracted by pure spirit, and, in a great part along with the gummy matter by water." Asafoetida is a medicine in very general use, and is certainly a more effi- cacious remedy than any of the other fetid gums. It is most commonly employed in hysteria, hypochondriasis, some symptoms of dyspepsia, flatulent colics, and in most of those diseases termed nervous; but its chief use is derived from its antispasmodic effects, and it is thought to be the most powerful remedy we possess for those peculiar convulsive and spas- modic affections which often recur in the first of these diseases, both taken into the stomach and in the way of enema,. It is also recommended as an emmenagogue, anthelminthic, expectorant, antiasthmatic, and anodyne. Where we wish it to act immediately as an antispasmodic, it should be used in a fluid form, as that of tincture. From 10 to 20 grains are a dose of the gum, and from ^ drachm to 1 drachm of the tincture. ASAFCETIDA CLYSTER usually acts like a charm in removing hooping-cough and flatulent colic. It is made by mixing the yolk of 1 egg with i pint of water, and then dib- aolving it in 8 grains of asafoetida. Tliis is enough for 13 clysters for a child under twelve months old, for 6 clysters for a child under three years, and for 3 for a child under seven. Give a clyster every morning and evening for removing hooping-cough. ASARABACGA SNUFF. Dried and pounded fine asarabacca leaves, and Lundyfoot snuff of each 1 oz.; dried and finely-pounded lavender flowers, 1 drachm; essence of bergamot, and oil of cloves, of each 2 drops. Mix thoroughly. This is a pleasant and very powerful compound for producing a discharge from the nostrils with- out sneezing. All the cephalic snuffs are thus compounded. Asarabacca is known to botanists as Asarum Europceum, and is a plant found wild in some parts of England. Dr. Woodville says that a few grains of the powder of asarabacca leaves, snuffed up the nose on several successive evenings, produce a pretty large, watery dis- charge, which sometimes continues for several days together, by which headache, toothache, ophthalmia, and some paralytic and soporific complaints have been effectually relieved. ASCARIDES. Small worms in the rectum. See Anthelmintics. ASH CAKE. See Indian Corn. ASH KEYS, PICKLED. Take ash keys as young as you can get them, and put them in a pot with salt and water; then take green whey, when it is hot, and pour over them; when you use them boil them in soft water till they are tender; then take them out, and put them in salt and water. ASH PIT. Every one has experienced the inconveniencies arising from the dust pi'oduced by the ashes of our fire-places. From experience we can recommend the following as an effectual preventive :— Let a hole be dug beneath the grate, about 2 feet deep, 24 inches wide from side to side, and ] 8 inches deep from back to front. On the top of this space an iron frame, about 2 inches wide, is to be fixed, into which an iron grating is to fit that can be removed at pleasure, in order to empty the ashes which shall have sifted through the grating in the course of (probably) the week; this grating being of such an ecu nomical size as will prevent useful cinders from falling through. ASHEB SAUCE. Chop very small some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, shallots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean ham, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs; add a good seasoned cullis, and a little mushroom catsup; simmer all together a quarter of an hour. ASPARAGUS, BOILED. Scrape all the stalks very carefully till thev look white, thenASP ASP [ 48 ] cut them all even alike, and throw them into a pan of clear water, and have ready a stewpan with boiling water. Put some salt in, and tie the asparagus in little bunches; put them in, and when they are a little tender take them up. If you boil them too much they will lose their colour and taste. Cut the round of a small loaf about i inch thick, and toast it brown on both sides; then dip it into the liquor the asparagus was boiled in, and lay it on your dish. Pour a little melted butter over your toast, then lay your asparagus on the toast all round the dish, with the heads inwards, and send it to table. ASPARAGUS IN CREAM. Choose the finest asparagus, and dress it as usual; parboil 1 pint of cream and a little butter; shake it about, and, when the butter is melted, season it moderately, and pour it over the asparagus. ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. Blanch some asparagus; cut it as for peas, and strew it in a little cream and butter; beat up 12 eggs and fry them as for an omelet; and when they begin to take mix the asparagus in it; when of a good colour on both sides, serve it very hot. ASPARAGUS, PICKLED. Cut and wash the heads of the largest asparagus; let them be two or three hours in cold water. Scald them very carefully in salt and water; then lay them on a cloth to cool. Make a pickle, according to the quantity of your asparagus, of white wine vinegar and bay salt, and boil it. To 1 gallon of pickle put 2 nutmegs, ^ oz. of mace, the same of whole white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them; cover the jar with a thick cloth, and let it stand a week, then boil the pickle ; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time ; when cold, cover the jar close. ASPARAGUS SOUP (1). Cut a knuckle of veal small; put the meat into a stewpan with 1^ pint of whole white peas, 3 or 4 turnips, 2 lettuces, 1 or 2 heads of celery, and some lean ham; add 3 quarts of soft water, and stew the whole till the juices are all extracted from the meat and the peas are quite tender; take out the veal and ham; strain off the soup; and, having pulped the peas and other vegetables through a sieve, put the same into the soup with the green part of a bundle of asparagus cut very small, and add thereto some mint, chopped fine. Stew all these till the asparagus is tender, taking care not to keep it so long over the fire as to spoil the colour. If the soup wants thickening put a little flour, mixed smooth with some water or a spoonful or two of ground rice, along with the asparagus. A Uttle spinach juice, extracted by pounding the raw leaves, may be added to give it a deeper green; but this must be done after the soup is taken off the fire. ASPARAGUS SOUP (2). Take the points of asparagus and treat them in the same manner as green peas for soup; let half the asparagus be rubbed through a sieve, and the other cut into pieces of about 1 inch in length, boiled tender, and sent up with the soup. To make 2 quarts of soup there must be 1 pint of aspa- ragus heads to thicken it, and ^ pint more cut in; but care should be taken to keep them green and crisp. Some fry -J oz. of onion in butter, and rub it through a sieve, to give the soup a high flavour; but it only overcomes the delicacy of the asparagus. ASPIC. Take a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and, if these will not make your jelly stiff enough add 2 calves' feet, or some swards of bacon, rasped; put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till reduced to a glaze; then moisten it with stock, boil and skim it well. Put to it 2 onions, 2 carrots, salt, parsley, scal- lious, 4 cloves, 2 bay leaves, and 1 clove of garlic; let the whole stew for seven hours, then strain off the liquor. Break 4 eggs into a stew- pan, and put to them the liquor when cold, the juice of 2 lemons, and 2 table-spoonsful of tarragon, and beat it with a whisk over the fire till near boiling, and when it does so remove your stewpan to a smaller fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour; then pass it through a wet double napkin. If the jelly is not suf- ficiently clear clai-ify it a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, about ^ inch thick, at the bottom of an aspic mould ; garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, sprigs of parsley, &c., according to your taste; pour in another i inch of the jelly, while liquid, with great care, so as not to discompose your garnish; then put either calves' brains, breasts of fowls, veal, sweetbreads, cockscombs, kidneys, fat livers, or game. Be sure to lay whatever you use as equal and smooth as possible; then fill up your mould with jelly and let it stand till set. When wanted dip the mould in hot water an instant, place your dish on the top, and turn it over. ASPIC OF CHICKENS' BREASTS. Toss up 8 breasts of chickens, seasoned with salt and pepper, and then leave them to cool. Put 4 ladlesful of veloute, and 4 spoonsful of jelly, into a stewpan and reduce them to half; then add the yolk of an egg, a little sliced parsley, a bit of butter the size of an egg; mix them all well together, and pour it over the chickens ; when cold put them in the aspic mould in layers, with cockscombs, kidneys, fillets of chickens, dressed like the breasts and put in cold. Dissolve your jelly, fill up the mould with it, and let it cool and set. Turn it out as usual.AST L 49 ] ASP ASPIC A LA MODERNE (Little). Have ready 8 small timbale moulds 2|- inches in diameter and 3 inches high; fill and decorate them as the large aspic. Turn them out, and place 1 in the centre of your dish, 6 I'ound it, and 8 on that which stands in the centre. Garnish with a border of jelly or coloured butter. ASPIC SAUCE. Infuse chervil, tarragon, burnet, garden cress, and mint, in a little cullis for about half an hour; then strain, and add a spoonful of garlic vinegar with a little pepper and salt. ASS. Many parts of this animal either are or have been in high estimation. Its flesh is considered in Spain a great delicacy; its skin is made into shagreen; its hoof was admitted into our pharmacopoeia as late as 1618 as a discutient or disperserof tumours, and when burned was said to be remedial in epileptic and hysterical attacks. Its milk is still in high repute as being more easily digested than cows' milk, yet very nutri- tious. It neither affords butter nor cheese, but is extremely agreeable to the tender stomachs of consumptive persons, and very wholesome for young children when drunk while warm from the animal; but it should be taken at least three or four times a day, ^ pint at each time, and continued for several weeks or months, if any real benefit be expected from this simple diet. The manner of preparing artificial asses' milk, not inferior in its properties to the natural, is as follows :—Take of eryngo root, or sea-holly, and pearl barley, each ^ oz.; liquorice root, 3 ozs.; water, 2 lbs. or 1 quart. Boil down over a gentle fire to 1 pint, then strain it, and add an equal quantity of new cows' milk. Another recipe for making it is to boil 1 oz. of hartshorn shavings in 1 pint of water until they form a jelly ; then dissolve in it 2 ozs. of loaf sugar, and when cold add 1 pint of new milk, and 1 small tea-spoonful of syrup of Tolu. ASSAM TEA. See Tea. ASTHMA is not to be mistaken for ever-y difficulty of breathing; but, as is observed by Dr. Forsyth, it is a chronic disease, and may continue to give very great distress, at intervals, for a considerable number of years. It is dis- tinguished into the humid and dry asthma. The former is accompanied with an expectoration of mucus or purulent matter, but the other is not. In the genuine humoral asthma the patients are obliged to lean forward; the inspiration is short and spasmodic, and the expiration is very slow. Asthmatic people have generally some intima- tion given them of the approach of the attack, from a languor, loss of appetite, oppression, and swelling of the stomach from flatulence, which precede the fit; but it is usually near the middle of the night that the violent difficulty of breathing comes on. The duration of the paroxysm is uncertain, as it will sometimes terminate in three or four hours, while at other times it will continue for as many days without intermission. During its continuance the patient is in very great distress ; is not able to lie in bed, or scarcely to speak or cough up, so great is the difficulty of breathing; and yet, notwith- standing all this apparent interruption to the free passage of the blood through the lungs, an inflammation in this organ seldom follows an asthmatic fit. As the paroxysm wears away, and in proportion as expectoration, or a mucous secretion, begins to take place, the disease usually diminishes ; it is also sometimes speedily and effectually relieved by a spitting of blood. In the treatment of asthma blood-letting has not been generally sanctioned; as in many in- stances it has proved highly injurious, by pre- venting or delaying expectoration, from which relief is to be expected. Purging also ip at- tended with the same consequences as bleeding. Blisters and issues, it would appear, are only serviceable in those cases where asthma is a consequence of the stoppage of some long-ac- customed evacuation or habitual discharge,, or in the complicated cases of old people; but in pure spasmodic asthma they have neither been found to relieve nor prevent the fit. Costiveness in asthmatic people should be removed to prevent an accumulation of acrid matter in the intestines, by proper attention to diet, assisted with a few grains of magnesia and rhubarb. Also by an emollient clyster, to which asafoetida or oil of turpentine has been added ; viz.:—Take decoction of marshmallows, and mixture of asafoetida, of each 5 ozs,; castor oil, ^ oz. This may be repeated as occasion may seem to require. In the height of an asthmatic paroxysm an emetic would probably be attended with dan- gerous symptoms, as it might increase the accu- mulation of the blood in the vessels of the head; at the same time, in humid asthma, and during the intervals, that is, if the fit is ex- pected in the night, an emetic given in the evening will often prevent a return of the paroxysm, especially if there should chance to be any foulness of stomach, &c. A very strong infusion of roasted coffee has been found to give ease in a fit of asthma. Sir John Pringle says it is the best abater of the periodic asthma he has seen. The coffee ought to be of the best mocha, newly burnt, and made very strong immediately after grinding it. He commonly ordered 1 oz. for one cup, which is to be repeated fresh after the interval of a quarter or half an hour—to be taken without milk or sugar. Dr; Percival states that he has frequently directed coffee in asthma with great success.AST ATT [ 50 ] "Warm water, inhaled from tlie spout of a tea-pot, has afforded relief in severe fits of this complaint; also an infusion of camomile flowers, with the addition of a little ether, may be used for the same purpose, and probably with better effect. In spasmodic asthma smoking tobacco has proved of service. The roots of stramonium, or thorn-apple, have been much employed in the same manner, used moderately, cut into small pieces, and smoked in a common pipe. The dry or spasmodic asthma, during the ex- treme violence of the fit, is best relieved by opium and ether, combined in the following manner :—Take camphor mixture, 6 ozs.; sul- phuric ether, 3 drachms; tincture of opium, 1 drachm; mix. Let 2 table-spoonsful be taken every four or six hours. In the greater number of cases of asthma, indigestion is a prominent symptom, and the patient is much troubled with wind in the stomach. To remove these, the stomachic and absorbent remedies, and bitter infusions, advised under the head of Indigestion, will be proper. Dr. Bree remarks, that " chalk and opium will astonish the asthmatic by the excellence of their effects, when the irritation proceeds from in- digestion of the first passages only." When, then, this is the case, from a scruple to a drachm of the compound powder of chalk with opium may be taken. Small doses of the powder of ipecacuanha, to the amount of 3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 10 grains, given every other day, according to the strength and constitution of the patient, are found to yield permanent relief in dry asthma, by acting sometimes as an evacuant, pumping up the viscid phlegm; at other times acting as a corrector of spasm, or as a sedative. Asthmatic people are very sensibly affected by changes of the weather. They in general find much difficulty in living, with any tolerable degree of ease, in the atmosphere of large cities; though we sometimes meet with patients with whom this air, so replete with gross effluvia of every kind, agrees better than the purest air that can be met with in country places Great relief is also derived from inhaling the steam of warm water. Asthmatic persons should be careful not to overload the stomach. Asthma is seldom fatal by itself, rarely appears before the age of puberty, and is more frequent in men than in women.—(Forsyth's Domestic Me- dicine, &c.) ASTRINGENTS are substances that are given to contract, or draw together, the parts to which they are applied, either to stop bleeding, in which case they are called styptics, or other excessive discharges, as diarrhcea. ASTRINGENT COLLYRIUM. This is for weak eyes. It is formed by mixing i oz, of compound liquor of alum and 60 drops of laud- anum with 5^ ozs. of rose water. Bathe the eye- lids with it three or four times daily. ASTRINGENT DRAUGHTS. For use * in diarrhcBa. Dried alum, 6 grains ; infusion of roses, 1| oz. fluid; laudanum, 15 drops; syrup of roses, S drachms fluid. This makes one draught, and a similar one is to be taken every six hours. ASTRINGENT PILLS. These, also, are for diarrhoea. Dried alum, 1 scruple ; extract of cinchona, S drachms. Make into 30 pills, and let 3 be taken twice a day. ASTRINGENT POWDER for application to piles and a soft polypus in the nose. Quarter of an ounce of burnt alum and the same quan- tity of very finely-powdered galls, mixed together. ATROPHY is the wasting of a part or of the whole body without any apparent fever or cough. This disease is most common in children, and often proceeds from teething. The patient has a bad appetite, a large stomach, and a sallow complexion; the stools are sometimes white, but always paler than usual, and the bowels are irregular. If teething be the cause, the gums should be lanced, the bowels ought to be attended to, and doses of castor oil, calomel, or rhubarb, given occasionally. Exercise, nourish- ing diet, and sea bathing are useful. The belly should be rubbed with warm sweet oil. For other causes of atrophy see Diaerhcea, Acidity OF THE Stomach, and Riceets. ATTAR, or Otto of Roses, is obtained from the flowers of the musk. Cashmere, and other roses. It is really an essential oil, and it is thus procured. A glazed earthen jar is filled with the petals or flower leaves of the roses, carefully separated from all the green and other parts ; spring water is poured over in sufficient quantity just to cover them. The vessel thus filled is allowed to remain in the sunshine for two or three days, but is taken under cover at night. By the end of the third or fourth day small particles of yellow oil appear floating on the surface of the water, and this oil increases in quantity until, in the course of a week, it forms a thin film upon the water. This film is taken up by means of a little cotton tied to the end of a stick, and the oil thus collected is pressed out of the cotton into a phial. The best comes from Cashmere, the next in quality from Syria, and an inferior attar comes from Barbary. Attar of roses is not agreeable as a perfume by itself, but requires to be diffused. In a favourable season 100 lbs. of rose leaves yield about 3 drachms of attar. In England a very agreeable oil of roses may be prepared by taking 4 ozs. of rose petals, not fully blown, cutting off their lower ends, pound- ing the petals into a pulp in a marble mortar.AUT ATT [ 51 ] and adding a pint of olive oil. Expose the mixture to the sunshine, or the temperature of a warm room for a week. Press out the oil, and repeat the process by adding fresh pulp of rose petals until the oil is sufficiently perfumed. ATTELETS. These are small silver skewers. AUBERGINES. These are the pear-shaped varieties of the vegetable-marrow. AUGUST. The provisions now in season are as follows :— Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and buck venison. Poultry. Fowls, chickens, ducklings, rabbits, pigeons, green geese, turkey poults. Game. Wheatears, leverets, wild ducks, quails, plovers, ruffs, and reeves. Fish. Dabbs, flounders, gurnets, plaice, her- rings, skate, mackerel, thornback, salmon, stur- geon, mullets, pike, carp, eels, turbot, whiting, shell-fish, except oysters. Fruit. Peaches, plums, figs, filberts, mulber- ries, cherries, apples, pears, nectarines, grapes, pine-apples, melons, strawberries. Vegetables. Beans, peas, cabbages, sprouts, cauliflowers, beet, carrots, potatoes, turnips, lettuces, small salad, endive, celery, radishes, onions, cucumbers, mushrooms, artichokes. AUTUMN extends over the period of the year between the 10th of September and the 10th of December. Dr. Forster, speaking of the climate near London, says the mean tem- perature is 49° 37', or 11° 29' below that of summer. The average temperature of the day declines from 58° to 40°. "The mean height of the barometer is 29-781 inches, being about one- tenth of an inch below its mean in summer. The prevailing winds are from points including the south and west. The evaporation from the earth is 6^ inches. The average fall of rain is 7^ inches. With us autumn is the real rainy season, and the earth, which had become com- paratively dry during the spring and summer, now begins to receive again the moisture neces- sary for the existence of plants and animals during the next year. Although this season begins early in September, it is not until Michaelmas that it really sets in with a cooler air, often with cold nights, but for the most part fine weather; as it advances, and the temperature continues to decline, it frequently produces showers and wet weather, accompanied with high gales of wind which prevail most during the night, and are often succeeded by dead calms in the day- time. Fogs begin to become denser and to last all day, overspreading the meadows to a great extent in low and flat situations, and they are not overcome even by the rays of the mid-day eun. About Allhallowtide in the neighbourhood of Loudon and of Amsterdam the faint beams of the sun are hardly seen for two hours in twenty- four, and this for many days together. Occa- sionally fogs happen at every period of the autumn and winter, but this is the season o*^ their prevalence. The retreat of the swallows and martlets constitutes one of the most remarkable features in the history of this period. Swallows assemble early in September, and so continue to appear in vast quantities, roosting on the tops of houses and lofty buildings; their migration begins with the autumnal season, and the greatest part of the species migrate between new and old Michaelmas-day. Martlets retire a few days later; straggling swallows are seen about till the middle of October, and martlets sometimes till the end of that month. Many birds now arrive in flocks ; wild geese and ducks perform partial migrations, and woodcocks and snipes arrive. The flowering of the saffrons, the autumnal crocus, the purple and the white varieties of the colcliicum in our gardens, Michaelmas daisies, and other late asters, are indications of the approach of this season. Fungi now become very abundant in moist places. The leaves during the autumnal season turn yellow, red, or brown, and at length falling, by degrees cover the ground with a thick carpeting. The beech, the oak, and a few deciduous trees keep their old dead leaves till spring. A colder air, wet fogs, or alternations of wind and fine weather, close this period at the end of November. Autumn as regards health is the most sickly season of the year. Hence Tertullian calls it " the test of valetudinarians ;" but the ancient Germans, though acquainted with the three other seasons, appear to have been uninfluenced by the severity of autumn, as they had no jmrticular term to express it, unless we admit the word "harvest," in modern German, herhst, as equivalent to what they at present call erndte, or the gathering in the fruits of the earth. The circumstances which render this season the least conducive to a healthy state of the body are the following: 1. Because the veget- able kingdom, with very few exceptions, returns the leaves of trees and plants to the earth, where they undergo spontaneous decomposition. This decay, or process of putrefaction, produc(!3 a remarkable change in the air, that surrounding medium which supports animal life, and the relative purity of which determines the most important function of the system, namely, that of respiration ; 2. As, by the greater pressure and humidity of the atmosphere, the pores of the skin are so affected that they become unable to perform their office of exhalation with the same facility as in winter and summer, it follows that perspirable matter, or at least its grosserAUT [ 52 J BAG particles, •will in autumn be liable to remain on the surface, in a state inclining to putrefaction, and to be re-absorbed to the great detriment of the human or animal body. Hence arise bilious and putrid fevers, with a long train of other complaints, according to the constitution and particular circumstances of the individual. Parental Nature, however, has amply provided the means of obviating such disastrous effects. With this intention she has given us a great variety of subacid fruit and acescent vegetables, which at that season attain to their perfection, and are eminently qualified to counteract the putrid disposition of the fluids. To assist her in this benevolent intention we ought to choose an appropriate diet, and at the same time defend the surface of the body with a proper dress, which is warm, light, and sufiQciently porous, in order to admit the evaporation of perspirable volatile humours. Notwithstanding all the objections made by theorists against the use of Flannel worn next the skin, we venture to pronounce it the most beneficial covering, provided the conditions and exceptions we shall state under that article be duly attended to. But to see the fashionable females of the metropolis, as well as in the country, at all seasons of the year, dressed in muslin, cotton, and other light stuffs, scarcely sufificient to protect them against a sudden blast of wind — such deviations from the rules of prudence and real economy, may, indeed, deserve the lash of the Roman satirist, who speaks of the bitter complaints of Proserpine in chilly autumn, but they cannot be corrected by Reason till the shrine of that whimsical idol, Fashion, be shaken. _ AUTUMN, DINNERS IN. It is impos- sible in giving a list of articles suitable for dinners for us to hit upon those which are convenient for everybody, and adapted to all parts of the country; but those that we do give, if they are not exactly what is required in eveiy case, will serve as a guide, and may be sug- gestive of what is really wanted. We shall furnish many various forms which may be changed at pleasure, and according to circum- stances, substituted by whatever else may be more convenient. 1. Soup; roast fowls, dried tongue; kidney- beans, potatoes ; apple pie, rice pudding 2. Fish; roast pork and apple sauce ; peas, cabbage, and cauliflower; cherry pie, blanc- mange ; salad. 3. Green pea soup ; roast lamb, fowls ; apple charlotte, blanc-mange, custards. 4.. 0.\-tailsoup; fish; boiled fowls,ham, roast veal; custard pudding, sweet omelet. 5. Mock-turtlesoup; roast beef, boiled fowls; dam^ion taits, fritters 6. Salmon; roast goose and apple sance, fillet of veal, boiled bacon; patties, apple pie, marrow pudding, lemon custards. 7. Hare or rabbit soup; pigeon pie, roast fowls, partridges, or grouse; calves' feet jelly, ice creams, sweetmeat tartlets. 8. White soup, cod and oyster sauce ; sirloin of beef, pheasant, oyster pates, sweetbreads; tapioca pudding, jam tartlets, and jellies. 9. Rich brown soup; salmon, smelts; roast turkey, haunch of mutton, fricaseed chickens, pigeon pie ; jam tai'ts, apple snow, blanc-mange. 10. Boiled or stewed rump of beef, roast hare, veal-and-ham pie, roasted ducks, partridges, or other game; pasties, marmalade pudding, col- lege pudding, mince pies, jellies, and custards 11. Salmon, whiting ; saddle of mutton, boiled turkey, roast fowls, stewed ducks, dried tongue, partridges, snipes, or woodcocks ; macaroni, bread-and-butter pudding, plum pies, stewed plums, custards, cheesecakes, and ices. 12. Mock-turtle and Julienne soup; salmon, haddock, or whiting; roast beef, boiled leg of mutton, chicken pie, pigeon pie, collared pig, ham ; apple tart, blanc-mange, jellies, custards, stewed pears, puffs, and ices. B. BABA. Take the fourth part of 2 lbs. of flour, lay it on your pasteboard or slab, and, having made a hole in the middle of it, put in 1 oz. of yeast; work it up with one hand, whilst with the other you pour in warm water; make it into a rather soft paste, put into a wooden bowl, first pricking it in a few places, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand. When it has risen well take the remainder of the flour and spread it on the first-made paste; mix them well together, adding to them i oz. of salt, 6 eggs, and 1 lb. of fresh butter (well mixed together before adding them), i lb. of stoned raisins, 2 ozs. of currants, ^ glass of Malaga or white wine, and a little saffron in powder. Work them up together thoroughly; roll out this paste - two or three times, and then let it stand for six hours; then, having buttered a mould, fill it only three parts full, and set in a warm place to rise gently. When raised to the top of the mould, bake in a tolerably hot oven. A brisk oven is best. BACCHIC CREAM. Put H pint of white wine, with some lemon-peel, coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and 3 ozs. of sugar, into a stew- pan, and let them boil a quarter of an hour; then mix I tea-spoonful of flour with the yolks of 6 eggs ill another stewpan, and stir in by degrees the other previously-boiled ingredients. When about haF cold, strain the whole through a sieve.BAG BAG [ 53 ] and put it in a dish into hot water. Lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool place till ready to serve. BACCHIC SAUCE. Put 1 spoonful of fine oil into a saucepan, with ^ pint of good stock, and 1 pint of white wine; boil them together till re- duced to nearly half; then put in some shallots, garden cress, tarragon, chervil, parsley, leeks, &c., all shred very fine ; season with whole pepper and salt. Boil the whole together once ; serve with a little cuUis. This sauce is good with any meat. BACHEK'S PILLS. These are tonic, and are compounded of extract of black hellebore, 1 oz.; myrrh, 1 oz.; and powdered carduus benedictus (blessed thistle), 3 ozs. Make into pills of 1 grain each and take from two to six, accordingly as the stomach will bear them, three times a day. It is a powerful medicine, and the hellebore taken in excess is poisonous. BACK BOARDS, says Dr. Crell, were em- ployed for a similar purpose to braces and stays; namely, to keep the body both upright and immoveable, with the head elevated and the shoulders pulled unnaturally backwards. It was also absurdly imagined that they enlarged the chest, and thereby prevented the attacks of consumption; but, from what we have said of the effects of braces {see Braces) in producing chicken-breast and flatness of the ribs, it must be evident that the back board must have a still more injurious effect of the same kind, although we leave entirely out of consideration the torture it always inflicts on the poor child that is forced to wear it. There cannot be a doubt but that back boards are powerful instru- ments, also, for promoting distortions and twists of the spine, by weakening the strength of the muscles, by which the upright position of the body is chiefly supported.—[Family Oracle.) BACK, PAIN IN, may arise from various causes. If in the small of the back, it is usually occasioned by some disorder of the kidneys. In whatever part of the back the pain may be, if occasioned by cold or accidental twist of the spine, the best remedy will be found to be a bandage of thin flannel, half a yard wide and two or three yards in length, folded closely round the small of the back, and the bandage secured and completed by sewing the edge of the outside end of the flannel to the previous folds. This should be worn night and day, and when no longer required should be left off by degrees; first diminishing the quantity of flannel, and then only wearing it during the day. For those persons who are subject to constitutional weakness in the spine, or whose occupation requires them to raise or carry articles of con- siderable weight, a constant belt will be found of tlie greatest service. It should be about a foot wide, and secured by two or three small straps and buckles, worn next the skin during the day and laid aside at night, and composed of ordinary leather on the outside, with fine soft leather and slight padding for the inside. BACON. The following trustworthy esti- mate of the bacon cured in various parts of the British Islands was written by a correspondent of the " Magazine of Domestic Economy." The cheaper and more common bacon sold in London, and sometimes termed Irish bacon, is nauseous as well as unwholesome. It is not, however, Irish bacon, though made from Irish hogs. In Ireland the bacon is generally of excellent quality and well cured ; but the meat here alluded to is derived from the following source :— At Liverpool, but more especially at Bristol, there is an immense importation, from Ireland, of hogs hastily and improperly fattened for these markets. At the latter city vast droves of swine may daily be seen coming from the Hotwells, crossing the College Green, and pro- ceeding to the outskirts of the other end of the city, whence they are forwarded to their ultimate destination. These poor animals have just been landed from the Irish steam-packets, and ere they have well recovered from the effects of their sea-sickness, are driven hastily across the country, which throws them into a fever. In this state of disease, which a few days would overcome, whilst a few weeks' feeding on beans and potatoes would render them fine, firm, and wholesome, they are slaughtered and converted into bacon and hams, with an excess of salt. Of course this diseased flesh is soft, flabby, and disgusting. What is more, it is exceedingly un- wholesome, for even the hyper-salting cannot eradicate the " plague spot" with which this meat is stamped. Some of the bacon thus obtained bears the name of Lancashire bacon, some that of Somersetshire bacon, according to the caprice of the buttermen and cheesemongers who retail it. In Buckinghamshire, where the flesh of the swine is almost the only animal food used by the agricultural classes, and where the best bacon in England is made—in Gloucestershire also, especially in the royal Forest of Dean, where swine's flesh is the chief food, and where the forester considers himself independent of the world when he has a couple of fat hogs in his sty and a side of bacon hanging against the wall on either side of his hearth ; the swine feed heartily on beech-mast, acorns, and the various productions of the woodlands which the right of common procures for them. This imparts great sweetness and solidity to their flesh, the fattening of which is completed by peas or beans, and some potatoesKBAG BAG C 54 ] The Buckingliamshire bacon is the very best in England; but the whole of that which is made is consumed in the county. In the farm- house kitchen, as well as in the common room of the cotter, a couple of flitches of bacon may be seen hanging in the chimney, subject to the action of the smoke arising from the wood fires in use there. Suspended from the ceiling of the room is a bacon rack containing several flitches more, destined, in their turn, to occupy the sides of the chimney. The hog, being slaughtered by the hog butcher of the village or parish—for the Buckingham peasant has a horror of taking life, unless it be " professionally,"—the carcase, instead of being scalded to get off the hair, is singed with burning straw and scraped. The head, the tongue, the chines, and the hands or shoulders, are then salted according to the ordinary method of salt- ing meat. The hams are also separated from the flitches, which are cured in the following manner. Half a pound of saltpetre is pounded very fine and divided into two equal parts, one of which is for the two hams, the other for the two flitches. This latter portion being also divided into two equal parts, one of them is well rubbed over each flitch, especial care being taken to apply a larger quantity to the parts whence the ham and shoulder have been re- moved. The flitches are then placed on the salting form during ten or twelve hours. Mean- while 7 lbs. of salt are mixed with IJlb. of coarse moist sugar, and heated in a frying-pan, being stirred so as to give the same temperature to the whole mass. The mixture, as hot as the hand can possibly bear it, is rubbed over the flitches, which are then placed, one upon the other, in a salting-pan, when the brine will immediately begin to form. The bacon must now be well basted and rubbed with the brine, and turned twice a week, the under flitch being placed uppermost each time that the flitches are turned. At the expiration of four weeks the bacon is taken from the brine, hung up to dry, and afterwards smoked. The two hams are cured simultaneously with the flitches. On the first day the i\h. of powdered saltpetre destined for them, being divided into two equal portions, each ham is well rubbed with one of these parts. It is then placed in a separate dish, with the rind or back part dowTiwards, where it remains until the flitches are rubbed and put into the salting-pan. Four pounds of salt, and 1^ lb. of moist sugar, well mixed together, are then heated in a frying- pan, as for the bacon, and the hams well rubbed with the hot mixture, after which they are put into a separate salting-pan to make their own brine. Here they are rubbed and basted with the brine, and turned every day during five weeks, when they are hung up to diy, prior to being smoked. The two brines are now mixed, with the addition of ^Ih. more of moist sugar; and this general brine is boiled and skimmed. A number of neats' tongues, salted during twenty-four hours to make them disgorge, together with the tongues of sheep, hogs, and deer, previously put into salt for a few hours, are then placed in the brine by those who are sufil- ciently wealthy to obtain them. In three weeks these tongues are fit for the table, or for being dried and smoked. The bacon and hams thus cured are hung up to dry in the bacon rack, and on nails in the kitchen, the hams being sometimes covered with brown paper, a very unnecessary precaution. When the pickle that remained upon them has crystallised upon their surface, and they are quite dry externally, the hams and bacon are hung in the chimney to undergo the action of the smoke arising from the wood fires—wood being the ordinary fuel used in the agricultural districts of Buckinghamshire. No artificial means of smoking are resorted to in this county as in Yorkshire, where hams are manufactured for exportation to London and India. The Hampshire bacon and hams, being next in repute to those of Buckinghamshire, will be next noticed. About Michaelmas seems the period adopted in most country places for slaughtering hogs and converting their flesh into ham and bacon, in order that these may be smoked by the winter fires without additional expense ; and this is the case both in Bucking- hamshire and in Hampshire. In this latter county the curing is very similar to the mode pursued in the former, with this difference only, that to 4 lbs. of white and 2 lbs. of bay salt for the bacon are added 2 lbs. of coarse brown sugar, and 4 oz. of sal prunella; and for the hams, with 2 lbs. of white and I lb. of bay salt are mixed 2 lbs. of brown sugar and 3 ozs. of sal prunella. Along the sea-coast and in the channel islands belonging to this county, the bacon and hams are smoked with dried sea- weed, which imparts to them a rich and delicious flavour. Like the bacon and hams of Bucking- hamshire, those of Hampshire never find their way out of that county, except as presents. The hams made in the island of Jersey are of par- ticularly fine flavour, and sometimes appear in London at the tables of those who have property iu or are connected with that island. Though Suffolk may yield the palm to Buck- inghamshire for bacon, it nevertheless produces the best hams in England, but which are made only for private use. The excellence of these hams depends more upon the mode of curing than upon the superiority of the meat, which is inferior to that of Buckinghamshire andC S5 ] BAG BAG Gloucesterslure, where the closelr-wooded lands, subjected in all parts to the rigiits of common, afford a sweeter nourishment to the swine than a more open country, intersected with numerous enclosures, and every inch of which is either tilled or meadow land. The process of curing the flitches and hams in Suffolk is this. For the tacon, 3 lbs. of white and 2 lbs. of bay salt, 6 ozs. of sal prunella, and 4 lbs. of coarse brown sugar, are heated and rubbed as hot as the hand can bear over the flitches, after the latter have been sprinkled with salt and laid in a pan during twenty-four hours, and then wiped very dry. The moment the hot pickle has been applied to them they are laid, each as it is rubbed, in a clean salting- pan, one upon the other, when the brine instantly begins to form. They are rubbed and basted with the brine, and turned three times a week, putting the under flitch uppermost each time, till the expiration of four weeks, when they are hung up to diy, prior to their being smoked. In Norfolk the bacon and hams are cured much alike. The inhabitants of Norfolk are methodical persons who always go by weight and measure; it is, therefore, easy to describe their process very accurately. For | cwt. of bacon, making 4 stone or 5 6 lbs. weight, 5 lbs. of common salt are mixed with J lb. of pounded bay salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, the same quantity of sal prunella, and 4^ lbs. of coarse brown sugar The bacon, in the meanwhile, has been sprinkled with salt and put into a tray, where it has lain during twenty-four hours. It is now put into a clean tray, or into a pan, and the above pickle rubbed into it before the fire, as near it as possible without inconvenience. It is turned and basted in the brine every day during a month. It is then taken out and smoked during five or six days. The bacon made in Somersetshire is also of very fine quality; but none of it finds its way to the London market. The bacon from Wilt- shire, termed in London Hampshire bacon, is an imitation of the Somersetshire, being, like this latter, cured with salt only, but being also very inferior to it. The moment a hog is killed in Somersetshire, it is cut up as rapidly as possible, and the sides or flitches sprinkled aU over with bay salt, and laid in wooden troughs, where they are suffered to disgorge during twenty-four hours. They are then taken out and wiped dry. Meanwhile the troughs are thoroughly washed of these disgorgings, and well wiped. A quantity of bay salt is then heated in a frying-pan, and the flitches being replaced in the troughs, as much hot salt as they will absorb is rubbed into them, the temperature of the salt being kept at the highest point that the operator can bear. This friction is repeated every day during four successive days, but the flitches are turned only twice in the interval, that is to say, each second day. The bacon, if the flitches are large, which is generally the case in Somerset- shire, remain three weeks in the brine, being turned once in two days during this period. If the sides are small, they are removed from the brine at the expiration of sixteen days. When taken from the troughs, they are hung to dry, but not smoked. The delicious bacon of Gloucestershire, which, were it prepared after the manner adopted in Buckinghamshire, or that followed in Suffolk, would be still better, is cured like that of Somersetshire, with salt alone. In many parts of this beautiful county, among the peasantry and small farmers of the lower vale, and more especially among the foresters and miners of the Forest of Dean, the head, the chines, spare- ribs, &c., of the slaughtered hog being removed, the body is divided down the spine into two equal parts, each side retaining its ham and shoulder. On being ready, the sides are sprinkled over with salt and placed in a trough, where they disgorge during twenty-four hours. They are then taken out and wiped dry, whilst the trough is washed and dried. In the meantime, ^ lb. of saltpetre is rubbed into each side, a greater proportion being applied upon and round the hams and shoulders. After the saltpetre has been left three or four hours to penetrate into the meat, this latter is rubbed with as much hot salt as it will absorb, and the sides replaced one above the other in the trough. Two days after, they are turned and rubbed again with salt, which salting and turning is repeated once more at the expiration of two other days. They are now salted no more, but are turned every two days during a month, calculated from the period of their being rubbed with saltpetre ; at the expiration of which time they are taken from the brine and hung up to dry without being smoked. In conclusion we give directions for keeping bacon for any length of time without its be- coming rusty. When the bacon has been dried and smoked, if it be smoked bacon, have a common deal box made large enough to con- tain all you want to preserve. Put a good bedding of hay, the freshest possible, in the bottom of the box, then encase each flitch or piece of bacon in a wrapping of twisted hay, and place a strong layer of loose hay between each two flitches, with a good layer over the last when the box is full. It must then be closed tightly, and put in a dry place. The bacon will improve by being kept thus, and will remain sweet and good for almost any length of time. Hams may be nreserved in the same[ 56 ] EAC B AC manner, and if kept in a dry, warm place -will greatly improve. BACON: To Boil (1). Soak it in warm water an hour or two, pare off the rusty part, scrape the rind, and then let it boil gently in cold water three quarters of an hour. Clean the under side well, and take off the rind, grate a crust of bread all over it, and put it before the fire for a few minutes. Two pounds of bacon will take about an hour and a half boiling, but the gammon will require a longer time. BACON : To Bon, (2). Cover lib. of nice streaked bacon with cold water; let it boil gently for three quarters of an hour; take it up, scrape the under side well, and cut off the rind; grate a crust of bread not only on the top, but all over it, and put it before the fire for a few minutes. It must not be there too long, or it will dry and spoil. Two pounds will require about an hour and a half, according to thick- ness. The hock or gammon, bemg very thick, will take more.—The boiling of bacon is a very simple subject to comment upon ; but our main object is to teach common cooks the art of dressing common food in the best manner. Bacon is sometimes as salt as salt can make it; therefore, before it is boiled, it must be soaked in warm water for an hour or two, changing the water once ; then pare off the rusty and smoked part, trim it nicely on the under side, and scrape the rind as clean as possible. Bacon is an extravagant article in house- keeping ; there is often twice as much dressed as need be. When it is sent to table as an accompaniment to boiled fowl or veal l^lb. is plenty for a dozen people. A good German sausage is a very economical substitute for bacon, and so are fried pork sausages. BACON: To Choose. The fat of bacon, when good, is firm, with a reddish tinge, and the lean, which is of a lively colour adheres closely to the bone; but if there are yellow streaks in it the same is a sure sign of rust or decay. The rind of young bacon is thin, and that of the old thick. Be sure to observe that the flesh sticks close to the bones, and the fat and lean to each other; for if it does not the hog was not sound. Take care also that the extreme part of the fat near the rind be white, for if that be of a darkish or dirty colour, and the lean pale and soft, it is rusty. To ascertain if a ham or a piece of bacon is in good condition thrust a sharp-pointed knife into the middle of the ham, under the bone, and on smelling the knife, if the ham be good, it will have a pleasant flavour; but if it be daubed and smeared, and has a disagreeable scent, reject the ham as a bad one. Those short in the hock generally turn out best. A gammon of bacon may be tried in the same manner. BACON: To Cure (1). In order to have good bacon the hair should be burnt oS, not scalded; the flesh will be more solid and firm, and it will keep better. This part of the business belongs to the operation of pig killing ; however, we shall bring it in here. The hog must be kept on dry straw, or litter of some kind, all the day before, that the hair may be perfectly dry. When killed he is to be laid upon a bed of straw not wider than his body, and two or three inches thick; cover him thinly with straw, and set fire to one end of it in the direction of the wind; cover him two or three times as the straw is burnt off, but be careful not to burn or parch the skin. When one side is done turn him on the other. When the hair is burnt close scrape the hog quite clean, but never touch it with water. The burning should always be done before daylight, because you can then discover more nicely whether the hair be sufficiently burnt off. After the inwards are removed the pig is hung up for the next day, when he is cut up, and the other parts being taken away, the two sides or flitches are to be cured for bacon. A bacon trough or tray should have a gutter round its edges to drain off the brine, which would otherwise soak in, and spoil the meat. The inside or flesh side of each flitch must be well rubbed with salt, and placed above each other in the tray. Once in four or five days the salt should be changed. It should be suffered to melt and sink, but not to lie too long. At least twice during the salting the flitches should be changed, putting the bottom one at top, and then again at the bottom. Some people add for each hog i lb. of bay salt, J lb. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of very coarse sugar or treacle; but this is not necessary. Very capital bacon may be made with common salt alone, provided it be well rubbed in, and changed sufficiently often. Even the brine will turn to a good account if you will set a vessel under the hole of your salting-trough in order to catch it. As to the length of time required for curing the hog it depends upon the state of the weather, size of the animal, &c. It takes longer in a dry place, and when the air is keen, than when it is mild and damp. Six weeks in moderate weather will do for a hog of twelve score; but it is better to have time enough. The place for salting should be cool, and very airy. If it be dark it is all the better, being more secure from fly blows. BACON: To Cure (9). Divide the hog; take out the chine, but leave the spareribs; salt the flitch six days; then drain off the first pickle ; mix as much common salt as you think proper with 8 ozs. of bay salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of coarse sugar to each hog. First, take off the hams, rub the salt well in, and tm'n theBAG [ S7 ] bacon every day for a month. Drain and smoke it a few days, or hang it up in the Idtchen far from the fire. The Wiltshire method is this :— Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours; then mix lb. of coarse sugar, the same quantity of baj' salt, somewhat less than | lb. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of common salt. Rub this well over the bacon, and turn it every day for a month ; then hang it up to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. The quantity to salt here mentioned will be enough for a whole hog. Smoking bacon is much better than merely drying it. In order to do this rub the flitches well, on the flesh side, with bran or fine saw- dust (not of fir or deal), and hang them in a chimney out of the way of rain, and not near enough the fire to melt. The smoke must be from wood (elm is best), stubble or litter (not fir or deal wood). If the fire is tolerably constant and good a month s smoking will do. The flitches should hang till quite dry, but not long enough to be hard. To preserve them from hoppers sift some clear, dry ashes of wood, turf or peat, or very dry sand; put some at the bottom of a chest or box long enough to hold the flitches; lay in one flitch, which cover with 6 or 8 inches of ashes, and then another flitch in the same way. If the ashes get damp dry them by the fire, and replace them in the box. In this way the bacon will keep fresh and sweet as long as ever you want to keep it. We have heard that if the bacon is whitewashed over two or three times it will keep equally well on a rack; but this we never tried, and therefore cannot answer for it. BACON: To Cure (Buckinghamshere). The time of killing hogs in this county is soon after Michaelmas. The butcher performs his office by cutting the throat of the animal, when the blood is caught for making black-puddings. Some straw being spread on the gi'ound the hog is then laid upon it, and, being covered with a fresh quantity, it is set on fire; and this is repeated till both sides are completely singed. The carcase is then thoroughly scraped ; the entrails are taken out, and laid aside for various uses. After this the hog is placed upon a chopping-stool, the head taken off, and a chine cut out the whole length of the back. The hams are next separated, then the spareribs, and, lastly, the bladebones from the flitches, with as much meat as can be properly taken off. The internal parts are appropriated to immediate use ; the chines, head, tongue, and hocks are salted, and the other parts eaten fresh. The bacon and haras are thus cured. Having re- duced to powder about -^Ib. of saltpetre, the meat is well rubbed with it, and the next day 8 lbs. or 4 lbs. of common salt are heated with 1 lb. of coarse sugar over the fire, and when quite hot rubbed equally over the bacon and hams, which are next put with the skin side downwards in a salting vessel. The proportion for the ham is 2 lbs. of salt, and for the two flitches 6 lbs. or 7 lbs., with 1 lb. of sugar. Both the bacon and hams must remain a month in the pickle, being turned therein once or twice a week. When thoroughly done the hams and sides are hung upon the rack or in the chimney, without any extraordinary smoke. BACON: To Cure (Somersetshire). On killing a hog the flitches are placed in wooden troughs and sprinkled over with bay salt. In this state they are left to drain twenty-four hours, then taken out and wiped dry. Fresh bay salt is then heated in a frying-pan, and the troughs having been cleaned out, the flitches ai'e replaced, and the hot salt rubbed over them. This process is repeated four days, the flitches being turned each time. If they are large they are left in the brine three weeks, and afterwards dried without smoke. BACON AND BEANS. When you dress beans and bacon, boil the bacon by itself, and the beans by themselves, for the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Always throw some salt into the water, and some parsley, nicely picked. When the beans are done enough, which you will know by their being tender, throw them into a cullender to drain. Take up the bacon and skin it; throw some raspings of bread over the top, and if you have an iron make it red hot and hold it over it to brown the top of the bacon; if you have Jiot one, set it before the fire to brown. Lay the beans in the dish, and the bacon in the middle on the top, and send them to table with parsley and butter in a sauce-boat. BACON AND CABBAGE. Boil some fine streaked bacon with a little stock, and the ends of eight or ten sausages ; boil in the same stock some cabbages for about two hours; add salt and spices, and serve very hot. Place your cab- bages and sausages alternately round the dish, and the bacon in the middle. BACON AND EGGS Take some fine sti'eaked bacon, rather more lean than fat, cut it into thin slices, and next into small, square pieces; throw them into a stewpan, and set it over a good fire. When the fat is drawn from the slices of bacon lay them on a warm dish , then put into a stewpan a ladleful of melted bacon fat or lard ; set it on a stove ; add thereto about twelve of tlie pjieces of meat; then incline the pan and break in an egg. If this is properly done the yolk of the egg will be whole, and soon done. Care must be taken that the yolks do not harden. Lay each egg carefully m a warm dish, and do the same with the restBAG C 58 ] BAE BACON EASHERS (Relishing). If you have any cold bacon you may make a very nice dish of it by cutting it into slices about J inch thick; grate some crust of bread and powder them well with it on both sides; lay the rashers in a cheese-toaster; they will be browned on one side in about three minutes; turn them and do the other. These are a delicious accompaniment to poached or fried eggs, the bacon having been boiled first is tender and mellow. They are an excellent garnish round veal cutlets, or sweet- breads, or calf's head hash, or green peas, or beans, &c. BACON SLICES. Bacon may be fried, or broiled on a gridiron over a clear fire, or toasted with a fork. Take care to slice it of the same thickness in every part. If you wish it curled, cut it in slices about two inches long (if longer the outside will be done too much before the inside is done enough); roll it up, and put a little wooden skewer through it; put it in a cheese-toaster or Dutch oven for eight or ten minutes, turning it as it gets crisp. This is considered the handsomest way of dressing bacon ; but we like it best uncurled, because it is crisper and more equally done. Slices of bacon should not be more than one-eighth of an inch thick, and will eat much more mellow if soaked in hot water for a quarter of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before they are broiled, &c. BACON SPARERIB usually weighs 8 lbs. or 9 lbs., and will take from two to three hours to roast thoroughly—^not exactly according to weighs, but the thickness of the meat upon it, which varies very much. Lay the thick end nearest to the fire. A proper bald sparerib of 8 lbs. weight (so sailed because almost all the meat is pared oiT), ■with a steady fire, will be done in an hour and a quarter. There is so little meat on a bald sparerib that if you have a large fierce fire it will be burnt before it is warm through. Joint it nicely, and crack the ribs as you do the ribs of lamb. When you put it down to roast dust on some floiu", and baste it with a little butter ; dry a dozen sage leaves, rub them through a hair sieve, and put them into the top of a pepper-box, and about a quarter of an hour before the meat is done, baste it with butter. Dust the pulverised sage or the savoury powder, or sprinkle with duck stuffing. Make it a general rule never to pour gravy over anything that is roasted; by so doing the dredging, &c., is washed off, and it tastes insipid. Some people carve a sparerib by cut- ting out in slices the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When this meat is cut away the bones may be easily separated, and are considered as vely sweet picking. Apple sauce, mashed potatoes, and good mustard, are indis- pensable. BAG, among commercial men, is known to contain a certain quantity of the article named in connection with it. Thus a bag of almonds weighs about 300 lbs.; a bag of aniseed from 300 lbs. to 400 lbs.; of Bengal rice, 1^ cwt; of Patna rice. If cwt.; of Mauritius sugar, 1^ cwt.; of East India sugar, 2 cwt.; of Penang sugar, I cwt. to 1 cwt.; of Madras sugai-. If cwt.; of coffee, li cwt. ; of pepper in two sizes of 1 cwt. and 300 lbs.; of pimento (allspice), 1 cwt.; of African ginger, 1 cwt.; and a bag of shot, 28 lbs., &c. BAG, SCENTED, is made of equal weights of rose leaves, lavender flowers, orris-root powder, coriander seed, cassia, and cloves, all dried and pounded fine. Add a few drops of oil of berga- mot and essence of ambergris, or of any other essential oil preferred. Musk is to be avoided, because offensive to many persons. Put this mixture into a woollen bag, and cover with, any fancy material which taste dictates. BAIN MARIE. Bain marie is a flat vessel containing boiling water, meant to hold other saucepans, either for purposes of cookery or to keep dishes hot. The advantage of preserving the heat of dishes by the bain marie is that no change is effected in the flavour of the ingre- dients. This is much the better way to warm rich soups, &c. BAKER. We merely mention this trades- man for the purpose of showing the profits be makes and the frauds he commits. A baker who gets rid of seventy sacks ol flour per week in the form of bread requires the aid of five journeymen besides his own labour, and a baker who sells less than that quantity requires more journeymen in proportion. If he bakes only five sacks weekly he has to employ one man. From a sack of flour weighing 280 lbs. can be made on. an average eighty-two four- pound loaves. For what is called household bread only the less finely-bolted floui', called seconds, is used. The best flour, called Jine whites, is only employed for French bread, rolls, and white biscuits. The best bread is made from flour called households. The baker gets his yeast from the brewers at so much per gallon ; but many bakers use a chemical preparation. They use alum to whiten the bread, and pota-BAK [ 59 3 BAK toes at the rate of about 14 lbs. to a sack of flour. (See Alum.) BAKING (in Cookeby) is roasting in a closed oven, and consists of exposing substances to be roasted by the action of heat in a con- fined space, or closed oven, which does not per- mit the free access of air to cause the vapour arising from the roasted substance to escape as fast as it is formed, and this circumstance materially alters the flavour of roasted animal substances. Roasters and ovens of the common construc- tion are apt to give to meat a disagreeable flavour, arising from the empyreumatic oil which is formed by the decomposition of the fat ex- posed to the bottom of the oven. This incon- venience has been completely remedied in two ways : firstly, by providing against the evil of allowing the fat to burn; and, secondly, by carrying out of the oven, by a strong current of heated air, the empyreumatic vapours as fast as they are formed. The first effect of the fire is to rarify the >vatery juices within its influence, which make their escape in the form of steam. The albumin- ous portion then coagulates in the same manner as the white of an egg does ; the gelatine and the osmazome become detached from the fibrin, and unite with a portion of the fat, which also is liquefied by the expansive property of heat. The union of these form a compound fluid not to be found in the meat previously. This is retained in the interstices of the fibres, where it is formed by the brown frothy crust, but flows abundantly from every pore when a cut is made into the meat with a knife. In conse- quence of the dissipation of the watery juices, the fibrous portion becomes gradually contracted, and, if not attentively watched, its texture is destroyed and it becomes hard. Chemists prove that the peculiar odour and taste of roasted meat depend on the development of the prin- ciple which has been called osmazome, or the animal extractive matter of the old chemists— a substance which differs very materially from every other constituent part of animal matter chemically, it being soluble in alcohol, and to the senses extremely savoury. It is upon this principle, which seems to admit of con- siderable varieties, that the peculiarly grateful flavour of animal food, whether in the form of broth or roasted, and of each of its kind, depends. Osmazome exists in the largest quantity in the fibrous organs, or combined with fibrin in the muscles; while the tendons and other gelatinous organs appear to be destitute of it. The flesh of game and old animals contains it in greater quantity than that of young animals abounding in gelatine. The tenderness produced by roasting we account for from the expansion of the watery juices into steam loosening and dissevering the fibres one from another in forcing a passage through the pores to make their escape hy. This violence, also, must rupture all the finer network of the cellular membranes, besides the smaller nerves and blood-vessels which ramify so numerously through every hairbreadth of animal substance. This dissolution of all the minute parts of the meat, which must take place before a particle of steam can escape, will most clearly account both for the tenderness and the altered colour of roasted meat. The action of heat, also, upon the more solid parts of the bundles of fibres, will, independently of the ex- pansion of the juices, cause them to enlarge their volume, and consequently make the smaller fibres less firmly adhesive. Dr. Kitchener says baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of dressing dinner in small families ; and we may say that the oven is often the only kitchen the poor man has if he wishes to enjoy a joint of meat at home with his family. We do not mean to deny the superior excel- lence of roasting to baking, but some joints when baked so nearly approach to the same when roasted, that we have known them to be carried to the table and eaten as such with great satisfaction. When baking a poor joint of meat before it has been half baked we have seen it start from the bone, and shrivel up scarcely to be believed. Besides the joints ordinarily subjected to this form of cooking we shall enumerate a few baked dishes which can be particularly recommended. A pig, when sent to the baker prepared for baking, should have its ears and tail covered with buttered paper properly fastened on, and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the back with, otherwise it will be apt to blister. With a proper share of attention from the baker, we consider this way equal to a roasted one. A goose is prepared the same as for roasting, taking care to have it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. A duck the same. A buttock of beef in the following way is par- ticularly fine. After it has been in salt about a week, let it be washed well, and put into a browni earthen pan, with a pint of water ; cover the pan tightly over with two or three thicknesses of cap or foolscap paper. Never cover anything that is to be baked with brown paper; the pitch and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky, bad taste. Give it four or five hours in a moderate oven. A ham, if not too old, put in soak for an hour, taken out and wiped, a crust made suf-BAL [ fio ] BAL ficient to cover it all over, and baked in a moderately-heated oven, will cut fuller of gravy and be of a finer flavour than a boiled one. We have been in the habit of baking small codfish, haddock, and mackerel, with a dust of flour and some bits of butter put on them. Eels, when large and stuffed. Herrings and sprats in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little spice, and tied over with paper. A hare prepared the same as for roasting, with a few pieces of butter, and a little drop of milk put into the dish, and basted several times, will be found nearly equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a jar or pan, and cover it over, and bake it in a moderate oven for three hours. In the same manner we have been in the habit of baking legs and shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c., prepared with a seasoning of onion, turnips, &c. They will take about four hours. Let them stand till cool to skim off the fat; then warm it up altogether, or part, as you may want it. The time each of the above articles should take depends much upon the state of the oven, and sve consider the baker a sufficient judge. If they are sent to him in time he must be very neglectful if they are not ready at the time they are ordered. Baking Pastry requires the oven to be regu- lated according to the composition of the pastry. Light pastry will not be light in appearance unless the oven is hot enough to bake quickly, yet if too hot it will burn the paste before it has time to rise. Tarts and cakes, which are iced, require a moderately-heated or slow oven, other- wise the icing will be brown before the paste is sufficiently baked. Raised pies must be baked quickly, or their sides will fall in. Practice and observation will teach much more eff'ectively than precept in operations with the oven. For baking bread, see Bread. BALDNESS rarely occurs in women, and even in very advanced age their hair becomes grey, but does not fall off. Among the pre-dis- posing causes of baldness excessive indulgence in sensual gratifications, and particularly in wine and spirits, is perhaps the principal; though old age in man usually causes the loss of hair even in the most regular livers. In modern times divers arts are practised to conceal a bald head, and a variety of preparations are offered to the credulous in the daily prints, with the solemn promise that they are infallibly calcu- lated to make the hair grow again; but, in our opinion, baldness is incurable when it arises from general debility or a feeble state of the system; but where it takes place in consequence of acute diseases, or during a tedious recovery from maliguant fevers, the growth of the hair has frequently been accelerated by the following liniment:—Take the expressed juice of bur- dock root, honey, and proof spirits, of each 1 oz., mix them together, and anoint the barren part of the head several times a day, at the same time taking care to cover it with soft flannel, ia order to promote perspiration. All the nostrums to remove baldness, such as bear's grease. Macassar oil, &c., are false and ex- pensive compounds, which, if of any use at all, are useful chiefly from the grease which they contain, and which can be purchased for a few pence. In our opinion the following applica- tions are the most efficacious for the return of the hair. If the head is naturally moist use the following:—Take palma Christi oil H oz., and oil of lavender 1 drachm; mix them, and apply every night and morning for three months to those parts of the head from which the hair has fallen. If the head is naturally dry use this compound :—Take spirits of hartshorn |-oz., olive oil 1 oz., and eau de Cologne 1 drachm; mix and use as just directed. BALLS, BLACKING (1). Dissolve 6 ozs. of brown sugar, 4 ozs. of common gum arabic, and 4 ozs. of common isinglass in a quart of hot water. Mix together ivory-black and lampblack, of each 1 lb., and with the watery solution make them into a thick paste and put into tin moulds until hard. BALLS, BLACKING (2). Take of lard, 1 oz.; beeswax, 1 oz.; melt them together gently, and add by degrees, stirring the while, ivory- black, 8 ozs.; lampblack, 8 ozs.; brown sugar, 8ozs.; and common size, 4 ozs. When cool form into cakes. BALLS, BREECHES. Mix together 1 lb. of Bath brick, 2 lbs. of pipeclay, and 4 ozs. of pumice-stone, all ground down to the finest powder. Make them into a paste with 6 ozs. of ox-gall. By the help of rose pink, yellow ocln-e, and umber, all in fine powder, any desired colour suitable to the leather breeches they are in- tended to clean may be obtained. BALLS, CLOTHES. Mix together 1 lb. of pipeclay, |lb. of fullers'earth, ^ lb. of whiting, and 1 oz. of white pepper, all in very tine powder; make them into a paste with 4 ozs. of ox-gall, and mould into cakes or balls. When dry they are very useful for removing grease spots from, and otherwise cleaning woollen clothes. BALLS, CREAM (for Washing the Hands). White curd-soap 1 lb., starch, in powder, 3 oz.; beat them together thoroughly in a mortar, adding essence of bergamot, or other perfume, 4 or 5 drops. Form them into balls weighing 1 oz. each, and dust them over with starch powder. BALLS, FIRE. Mix together 20 lbs. of coal dust, called slack, 40 lbs. of sand, andBAL BAL [ 61 1 SO lbs of clay; make them into a stiff mass ■with water, and form it into balls about as large as a middling-sized orange When thoroughly dried they are fit for use. Some of them are to be put on the fire, when it is burning freely, a little above the top bar. They become in- tensely hot, and render the addition of more fuel unnecessary for some hours. BALLS, FORCEMEAT. See Forcemeat. BALLS, FURNITURE. Melt in an earthen pot or pipkin 1 lb. of beeswax. When melted put into the liquid ^ oz. of alkanet root, tied up in a piece of thick muslin; squeeze this, and when it has given enougli colour, take the pipkin off from the fire, and add \ pint of linseed oil, and the same quantity of spirit of turpentine. Pour it into a tube, formed of wetted pasteboard. When cold it is a roll or cylinder which may be rubbed in very small quantity on the flannel with which furniture is to be polished. BALLS, SCOURING. Beat together tho- roughly in a mortar 1 lb. of soft-soap and 1 lb. of fullers' earth. Form the mass into balls or cakes. Effectual for removing grease spots from, and otherwise cleaning carpets and other coarse woollen fabrics. Damp the grease spot, or the surface to be cleansed, rub it with the ball, allow it to dry, and then rub well with a little warm water applied by a flannel. BALLS, SWEET, are carried in the pocket, or worn as bracelets for the sake of their perfume. Mr. Cooley gives the following directions for making them:— I. Florentine orris root, 3 ozs. ; cassia, 1 oz.; cloves, rhodium wood, and lavender flowers, of each, ^ oz.; ambergris and musk, of each, 6 grains; oil of verbena, 10 drops. Make them into balls with mucilage of gum tragacanth made with rose water II. Gum benzoin and styrax, of each, 1 oz. ; cloves and cassia, of each, \ oz.: musk and civet, 5 grains ; balsam of Peru, oil of verbena, oil of rhodium, otto of roses, and true neroli, of each 10 drops; Florentine orris root, 2 ozs. Re- duce the dry articles to powder, then add the essences, and make the whole into balls with essence of jasmine, jonquil, violet, and tuberose, of each, equal parts. III. Plaster of Paris, 4 ozs.; sandal wood, cyperus root, and cloves, of each, ^ oz.; gum benzoin and styrax, of each, 1 oz.; ivory-black, 2 ozs.; musk and civet, of each, 1 scruple ; ambergris, 10 grains ; balsam of Peru, | oz.; oil of cassia, 10 drops; oi) of rhodium, ^ drachm; essence of jasmine, \ oz.; essence of neroli, J drachm ; otto of roses, 15 drops; mucilage made with orange-flower water to mix. Make them into beads, and pierce them while soft.— iCyclopadia of Receipts?) BALLS, WASH, differ only from other soaps by being globular, and streaked with various colours. We advise that none streaked with deep scarlet be used, because that colour is obtained from some preparation, either of mer- cury or lead To prepare these balls cut some moist white Windsor soap into slices, and roll the slices in red bole, in powdered blue, or in a mixture of powdered blue and yellow ochre, accordingly as red, blue, or green streaks are required. Squeeze the slices of soap tightly together in a globular form. BALM BEER. Eleven gallons of water and 10 lbs. of brown sugar are to be clarified with the whites of 12 eggs, carefully skimmed and boiled till nearly reduced to 10 gallons; 2^lbs. of the yellow flower of lemon-balm being put into a cask, the liquor, when milk warm, is to be poured over it, and 4 or 5 table-spoonsful of thick yeast added. The cask must be filled up morning and evening with what works over it, and bunged lip when the fermentation ceases. In a month the beer may be bottled, and in two or three months it will be fit for drinking. Half the quantity of the flower of lemon-balm will pro- bably be found to communicate a flavour suf- ficiently strong if added when the fermentation is nearly over. BALM OF GILEAD, called also halm oj Mecca, opobalsamum, and other names, is be- lieved to be the " balm " of the Old Testament, and to be produced by a tree, the Balsamo- dendron Gileadense, a native of Arabia, though some botanists consider it a species of Amyris. This balm or balsam is very fragrant, the colour of honey, and about as thick as turpentine. It is so highly prized by the Turks that it is monopolised by them, being used as a cure for wounds, as a cosmetic, and for other purposes. Dr. Solomon's halm of Gilead was celebrated as a quack medicine at the commencement of the present century, and it appears to have been nothing more than a spirituous and aromatic tincture, in which cardamoms and cantharides were ingredients. BALM WINE. Boil 20 lbs. of lump sugar in 4|^ gallons of water gently for an hour, and put it into a tub to cool. Bruise 2 lbs. of the tops of green balm, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeast, and when the syrup is nearly cold pour it on the balm; stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently; bring it up, and when it has stood for six weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into each bottle; cork it tight. The longer it is kept the better it will be. BALSAM OF HONEY is used for coughs, and is made of balsam of Tolu, 1 oz.; powdered opium, J drachm; honey, 4 ozs. ; rectified sftirit, 1 pint. Mix, and take a tea-spoonful when the cough is troublesomeBAL t 62 ] BAN BALSAM OF HOREHOUND. _ This is also used for couglis, and is taken in similar doses. It is thus prepared:—Pour 2 pints of boiling water on 1 lb. of the leaves of horehound and I lb. of liquorice root cut into thin slices ; after standiug twelve hours strain off the liquor, and put into it ^ drachm of camphor, J oz. of opium, J oz. of benzoin, i oz. of dried squills, J oz. of oil of aniseed, and 3 pints of brandy. Let them remain for a week; then strain off the liquor, and dissolve in it 1 lb. of honey. BALSAM OF PERU. I We have united BALSAM OF TOLU.j these because we consider them alike in their origin and proper- ties. Dr. Duncan, in his " New Dispensatoiy," says that the botanist, so well acquainted with the plants of South America, Ruiz, expressly considers them as the same, and says, that the balsam of quinoquino is procured by incision at the beginning of spring, is collected in bottles, where it keeps liquid for some years, called white liquid balsam; when it is deposited in mats or calibashes, after some time it condenses and hardens into a resin, dry tvhite balsam, or balsam of Tolu. It is generally believed, that if an extract be made from the bark by boiling it in water, it remains liquid, and of a blackish colour, black Peruvian balsam. There is no difference in these three balsams, excepting in the name, colour, and consistency. Sprengel also, in a memoir on the subject, considered them to be the same, and ascribed their difference to the one being produced in Peru, under the equator, and the other in New Granada, 150 geographical miles further north. In his later " Species Plantarum " he has, however, made them dif- ferent species, as had previously been done in Humboldt's " Novas Species." The Peruvian balsam tree grows in the warmest provinces of South America. It was described by Hernandez under the native name of hirtziloxitl, and by Piso, under that of cabureiba. Notwithstanding, what is already stated on the authority of Ruiz, the mode of obtaining it is not ascertained. The Berlin " Pharmacopoeia " states, that it is procured by burning the wood, that is, by a kind of distil- lation per descensum, as tar is prepared, while others think that it is got by incision or by decoction. It is brought in tin flasks, and generally has a portion of a watery fluid on the surface, and a considerable deposit, which is soluble in it by heat,' but again separates on cooling. Balsam of Peru is a very warm aromatic medicine, considerably hotter and more acrid than copaiba. Its effects are stimulating and tonic. Hence its use in some kinds of asthmas, dysenteries, and other disorders proceeding from debility. It is also employed externally for cleansing and healing wounds and ulcers, and sometimes against palsies and rheumatic pains. Balsam of Tolu occurs in commerce in small gourd shells of a brownish-yellow, or reddish- brown, friable, resinous substance, of a very pleasant smell, like vanille or benzoin, and of a weak aromatic, somewhat acrid taste. It softens under the fingers and melts readily. It is perfectly dissolved in six parts of alcohol, combines easily with volatile oils, and more difficultly with expressed oils. According to Trommsdorff it contains, in 100 parts, 88 of resin, 12 of benzoic acid, and 0-2 of volatile oil. Its adulteration with tui-pentine or resin is known by its smell when thrown on hot coals. It agrees in every respect with the other balsams, and especially with the balsam of Peru. The dose of these is from 10 to 20 drops. BALSAM OF SULPHUR is nothing more than sulphur dissolved in sweet "Oil. Heat gently 1 oz. of flowers of sulphur in ^ pint of olive oil, stirring until the sulphur is dissolved. Balsam of sulphur was formerly strongly recom- mended in coughs, consumptions, and other disorders of the breast and lungs ; but it is manifestly acrid and irritating, and should there- fore be used with the utmost caution. It has frequently been found to injure the appetite, offend the stomach and viscera, parch the body, and occasion thirst and febrile heats. The dose is from 10 to 40 di'ops. It is employed externally for cleansing and healing foul running ulcers. BAMBOO PICKLE, in imitation of the Indian, for eating with cold meat, is made in spring by peeling off the outer skin of the shoots of the common elder, soaking them for twelve hours in salt and water, boiling them in vinegar for a minute, placing them in a jar, in layers, with a little allspice, ginger, and mace, all un- bruised, strewed between the layers, and then pouring in the vinegar boiling hot. Let the jar stand near the fire for two hours, and then, when cold, cover the mouth of the jar closely. BAMIA is a variety of the vegetable-marrow, shaped like a cucumber, but flattened at the ends. The fruit is ragouted, forced, and dressed in different ways, and is not palatable at first. BANBURY CAKES. Make some dough with 2 table-spoonsful of thick yeast, 1 gill of warm water, and 1 lb. of flour; when it has worked a little mix with it ^ lb. of cuiTants, washed and picked ; ^ lb. of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut small ; allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, of each \ oz. Mix the whole together with 1 lb. of honey; put them into puff-paste cut in an oval form ; cover, and sift sugar over. Bake them a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven.[ 63 ] BAN BAN BANDAGES consist generally of strips of linen or calico., but sometimes of flannel, varying in width from three to five inches, and from about three to twelve yards in length. They must be rolled up before being used. There are other sorts of bandages besides those just described, amongst which are the many-tailed and T bandages, but which need not be described here, as they require to be applied by a prac- titioner. In bandaging, always begin from be- low upwards, that is, begin at the part farthest from the heart. Bandages are used for two purposes, namely, for supporting weak joints, sprains, &c., and for wounds or other injuries, and for keeping the edges of cuts together, made in bleeding or in any other surgical operation. In bandaging the wrist for a sprain or strain, begin by passing the bandage in the shape of the figure of 8 round the hand, excluding the thumb, and finish by passing it once or twice round the wrist. If you wish to extend your bandage farther up the arm, carefully turn the bandage upon itself (see fig. No. 1). The best width for the bandage for this purpose is about two inches, and its length three yards. For a sprained ancle, the end of the bandage is to be placed on the instep, then the bandage to be carried behind the ancle again across the instep, and round the foot two or three times, and finished off by a twist or two round the leg above the ancle. If you wish to extend the bandaging up the legs, for varicose, or enlarged veins, continue it as is shown in fig. ii, finishing at the knee. Care must be taken to keep the bandage equally tight over the whole leg, or it will swell and perhaps produce more serious consequences. The way to bandage a finger for a cut to save sewing or pinning is, after passing the bandage over the fingers, to split the end so as to be enabled to tie it, by bringing one end to one side of the finger, and the other end by the other side of the finger. If after a person has been bled the bandage becomes loose, it may be easily tightened, by first taking off the bandage and pressing a thumb upon the opening, then placing a piece of linen or lint, previously folded into a small pad, at least half an inch thick over the wound, and passing over it a bandage in the shape of the figure of 8, rather tightly, as is shown in fig. 3. BANDELINE. This, used by ladies to prevent curls from being disarranged, has the appearance and properties of gum water. It is sometimes called clysphitique, and fixatrice or fixature. It is prepared by gently boiling 1 oz. of bruised quince seed in 3 pints of water for several hours; strain the gummy liquid through muslin, and, when nearly cold, add to it a few drops of essence of bitter almonds, or any other scent preferred. Keep it well corked in a wide- mouthed bottle. Exposed to the air it soon spoils. Quince seeds are sold by druggists. BANDY LEGS, a vernacular expression applied to distorted or crooked legs. In some cases this is a natural defect in the birth, though it may more frequently be ascribed to an im- proper treatment of infants by indolent or officious nurses. The former will sometimes suffer an infant, scarcely twelve months old, to stand for hours on its legs while confined in a chair, or an absurd machinery contrived for walking: the latter are too impatient to give early specimens of a child's vigour, and daily try experiments with its tender legs before they are able to sustain the weight of the body. When an infant is born with bandy legs, daily and long rubbing on the convex side of the leg, and the timely and judicious use of the bandage may, by imperceptible degrees, correct this de- fect ; but it requires more patience and peise-C 64 ] BAN BAR Terance than people iu general are able cr disposed to bestow. Hence we cannot suppress a remark made by the ingenious Levret, that this species of neglect is attended with more important consequences to the female than the male sex; for, as deformities of the lower ex- tremities are very frequently connected with similar malconformations of those bones which form the waist, we may hence account for the repeated abortions in many mothers who pay the strictest attention to diet and every other circumstance during the period of gestation. This unfortunate deformity, however, cannot be easily remedied after the child has arrived at a certain age; and we believe all attempts would be fruitless, and even hurtful, after the sixth or seventh year; yet tliere are instances on record where nature, unassisted by art, has occasionally performed a cure. BANNOCK was a cake much used formerly in Scotland, manufactured of the meal of peas and barley ground up together. The meal was r"ade into unfermented dough, rolled out into roniid cakes, or bannocks, a foot in diameter and three quarters of an inch thick, aad baked on a griddle. BARBADOES CREAM is a liquor prepared by soaking 12 bruised cloves, J oz. of bruised cinnamon, and ^ oz. of lemon-peel, in 5 quarts of rectified spirit for twelve hours. Put the whole into a still, and draw off about 5 pints, or till milkiness is apparent. Or the same in- gredients, after soaking for a week, may merely have the liquor strained from them through blotting-paper. BARBADOES TAR is really a native naphtha found in Barbadoes, and other places within the tropics, and is there highly esteemed by the inhabitants as a sudorific and in dis- orders of the breast and lungs ; though in cases of this kind attended with inflammation it is certainly improper. The dose is from 10 drops to i drachm. They likewise apply it exter- nally as a discutient, and for preventing para- lytic disorders. An oil extracted from a kind of stone-coal has been extolled among the common people, under the name of British oil, for rheumatic pains, &c. The celebrated Egyptian mummies were im- pregnated with a similar liquid. This substance is also supposed to have been the principal ingredient in the Greek fire. It was the basis of the varnish which" Stradivarius used for his violins. One part of asphaltum, dissolved with- out heat in five parts of naphtha, gives a black- ish brown liquor, which, when dried with care, leaves the asphaltum in the form of a black shining vamish. BARBELS: To Boil. Boil them in salt and water; when sufiSciently done pour away part of the water, and put to the rest 1 pint of red wine, some salt and Aanegar, 2 sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some nutmeg, mace, and the juice of a lemon; boil these well together with 2 or 3 anchovies ; then put in the fish; simmer a short time, and serve it with the sauce strained over it. Shrimps and oysters may be added. BARBELS : To Stew. Take a large barbel; scale, clean, and wash it in vinegar and salt, and afterwards in water; then put it into a stewpan with a sufi&ciency of eel broth to cover it, and add some cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bit of cinnamon. Let them stew gently till the fish is done ; then take it out, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, pour it over the fish, and serve it up. BARBERRIES: To Candy. Take the bar- berries out of the preserve and wash off the syrup in warm water ; then sift over them some fine sugar, and set them in an oven, often moving them, and strewing sugar upon them till they are dry. BARBERRIES, PRESERVED. Take out the stones, tie six bunches to a small stick, and put them in a sieve; have ready a preserving pan with sugar, and boil the syrup half an hour, put the fruit therein; boil and skim the same with paper ; give the barberries sis or seven boil- ings, skimming as before ; then put them into an earthen pan, and cover them close; after which remove them into pots. BARBERRY BISCUITS. Press the juice of 2 lbs. of bai'berries through a sieve, and mix with it 5 lbs. of sifted sugar; whisk the whites of 4 eggs, and add them to the fruit; prepare some square paper cases, fill them with the jam, make them quite smooth, lay them on sieves, and put them into a stove, and let them remain six or eight days. When perfectly dry take away the papers. Keep them in a dry place. BARBERRY CREAM. Put 1 spoonful of barberry jam into a basin, with 1 pint of cream; squeeze in the juice of 1 lemon, and mix the whole, with the addition of some cochineal to colour it. Put it into the freezing-pot, and, having covered it, place it in a pail in the middle of ice, over which throw some salt. Turn the pot round for ten minutes, then open and scrape it from the sides; cover it again, and keep turning till the cream is as thick as butter; put it into moulds, and set them in a pail covered with ice and salt for three quarters of an hour till the water comes up to the top Use plenty of salt, or the cream will not freeze. Dip the mould in water, and turn out the cream on a plate when about to send it to table. Other fruits may be done in the same way. BARBERRY ICE. Put some barberries into a pan without water; set it over a gentleBAR [ 65 ] BAR fire, stirring them constantly; when warm pass them through a sieve into a pan ; add to the liquor clarified sugar; if too thick put a little water, but no lemon-juice, as the barberries are sufficiently acid without; then put it into the freezing apparatus to congeal. BARBERRY ICE-CREAM. Put 1 large spoonful of barberry jam into 1 pint of cream ; add the juice of 1 lemon and a little cochineal; stir it well, and finish as directed. See Ice. BARBERRY ICE-WATER. Put 1 spoon- ful of barberry jam into a basin ; squeeze thereto 1 lemon, and add 1 pint of water, with a little cochineal in it; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it till it becomes thick enough for the moulds. Raspberry and strawberry ices are done the same way. BARBERRY JAM. Pick the barberries clean, bake them in an earthen pan, and, when done, pass them through a sieve with a wooden spoon; add to them their equal weight of pounded sugar. Mix the whole, and put it into pots covered with sifted sugar, the papers dipped in brandy. BARBERRY PICKLE. Boil some of the worst and single berries in salt and water ; strain oS the juice ; add to every gill 1 quart of water, with 1 oz. of salt, ^ lb. of lump sugar, ^ oz. of powdered and sifted ginger, and some horse- radish, sliced. In the meantime put bunches of the finest barberries into a jar, and pour the above pickle over them boiling hot. When cold, add a little bruised cochineal, and cover the whole close. Currants may be pickled in the same way, adding to them cinnamon and a few cloves. BARCLAY'S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS are made of extract of colocynth, 2 drachms; extract of jalap, 1 drachm; almond soap, 1^ drachm ; gum guaiacum, 1) drachms; tartarised antimony, 8 grains ; essential oils of juniper, caraway, and rosemary, of each 4 drops ; syrup of biickthorn enough to make the whole of a consistency suitable for forming into pills. Two are a dose. BARDER is to tie thin slices of bacon on the breast and back of poultry whilst roasting. BAREGES WATERS. The village of Bareges, distinguished for its warm springs, stands in a wild and romantic part of the Pyrenees, between the Mediterranean and the Bay of Biscay. It is composed of two small hamlets, the principal of which, the lower Bareges, contains the baths and lodgings for the accommodation of visitants. The reputation of these waters has for years been established. " Julius Caesar," says Sir Arthur Clarke, "and the Roman general Ser- torius bathed in them to restore energy to their rigid limbs after their campaign in Gaul and Spain. Henry IV., of France, frequented them in his youth, and Louis XVI. dignified them with an hospital for his wounded ofiicers and another for his soldiers, who, when past all other means of cure, were, from the remotest parts of France, sent to Bareges as a last resource." These hot springs are four in number, le Grand Bain (the Great Bath), le Petit Bain (the Little Bath), le Bain Neuf (the New Bath), and les Bains de Delices (the Baths of Delight), and are inclosed in a vaulted stone building erected by Louis XVIII., of France. They contain the same ingredients, but differ in temperature and in the proportion of sulphur; the hottest being the most strongly impreg- nated with this active substance, which they all, however, lose by contact with the air, and by cooling. Their respective degrees of heat, according to Fahrenheit's thermometer, are the following :— Degrees of heat. That of the hottest bath, named Grand Bain, is at . . . . That of the Petit Bain . . . . 110 That of the Bain Neuf . . . 109i That of the temperate baths, called the Bains de Dehces 94i They are extremely light and transparent, impart the taste and smell of liver of sulphur, and emit a quantity of smoke or vapour, which is more or less visible, according to tbe changes of heat or cold in the atmosphere. The coolest are used chiefly for bathing, and the hottest for drinking and topical applications. Chemical analysis shows that they are com- posed of sulphuretted hydrogen united to soda, of an excess besides of this alkali, of a little common salt, of carbonate of lime and alumine, and of a small quantity of a bituminous sub- stance of a peculiar nature, combined with a part of the soda, and thus forming a kind of soap. From the innumerable instances re- corded of their power in the cure of diseases, they appear to possess alterative and detergent properties. "They have been employed with wonderful success in all gun-shot wounds, in those attended with loss of substance, or with the complication of caries and extraneous bodies; in contusions, in fistulas, schirrhuses, and every sort of ulcer requiring digestion and suppuration ; in mus- cular contractions, in rigid and palsied limbs, in chronic rheumatism, in certain states of gout, in diseases of the stomach marked by acidity, flatulency, and heartburn ; in obstinate colics ; in debilities brought on by intemperance or the abuse of mercury; in jaundice, gravel, and other affections of the urinary organs; and above all, in leprosy, in the dry red scurvy eruptions, commonly called scorbutic, which affect principally the bands, arms, and legs, iaBAR [ 66 ] BAR spots of various dimensious; and in cutaneous diseases arising from obstructed or checked sensible and insensible perspiration. Before entering on a course of these waters, it is necessary that the invalid be perfectly- recovered from the fatigues of the journey; if much excited, should lose a little blood; and if the stomach and bowels are loaded and foul, should take a gentle vomit and purgative. The costiveness which these baths frequently induce must be obviated by occasional doses of some aperient, as Epsom salts, &c. Whenever the causes of disease are internal the waters must constantly be drunk; and when they are thus administered, with a view to their alterative properties, their operation then will essentially be assisted by calomel, James's powders, or Plummer's pills. The most favourable time for drinking these waters is the morning. The quantity must be regulated by the condition of the stomach and disease of the invalid. It should not, however, exceed three pints, and should be for a due continuance. As it is of consequence not to load the stomach, the interval of a quarter of an hour between each draught will be proper. The addition of milk, in the proportion of a fourth, a third, or a half, according to circum- stances, renders the waters less offensive. In external wounds, tumours, and ulcers, the hot douches (a fall of water directed on any part, to operate by its percussions; it is, there- fore, what the English term pumping upon), with some previous tepid baths, are indicated; but should these be accompanied with constitutional depravation, the internal use of the waters should also be conjoined. The head and body should not be exposed so freely to the douches as the exti-emities. They are inapplicable in cases of inflammation. Fomentations of the water, with temperate baths, will be the more judicious remedies. The most favourable time for dressing wounds is immediately after the douche and while in the bath-room, for the advantage of its air and warmth. The dressings should be kept con- stantly wet with the waters ; but when the healing process has commenced, dry lint must be substituted to perfect the cure. The douche may be employed both morning and evening, and its duration may be from ten to fifteen minutes.. When the disease is so seated as not to be reached by the douche, then injections will be found convenient. For both of these applications the hottest water should generally be preferred. When both baths and douches are required, the former should precede to prepare the parts for the impressions of the latter, as in indurated tumours, rheumatisms, and other disorders of long standing, caused by checked perspiration, and characterised by aridity and hardness of the skin ; in obstructions of the viscera, in gravel, &c. The douches should always be applied near to the seat of the disease. After its application to stiff, contracted, or hardened parts and tumours, the bituminous oil of the waters well rubbed upon them, will expedite considerably the cure. The proper time for having the douches and baths is the interval between meals when diges- tion is concluded. One hour is the ordinary duration of the temperate bath, after which and the douche the invalid should, in inveterate cases, go to bed to elicit perspiration. The diet should be light and nutritive, con- sisting of soup, mutton, veal, chicken, partridge, roasted or boiled; and the ordinary beverage, the water of the cold fountain, boiled to render it pure, should that of the mineral spring be found too disgusting for the use of the table. Those who require wine may mix a little with it. —{Meigham, Clarke, and Mackenzie, on Mineral Waters.) The Bareges water for drinking may be imitated by dissolving 31 grains of each of the following salts, namely, common salt, carbonate of soda, and sulphuret of sodium, in 2 gallons of water. Put into pint bottles and tie down the corks firmly. For bathing dissolve in 2 pints of water 986 grains of each of the same salts. These 2 pints are to be mixed with 60 gallons of water to form a bath. BARILLA is impure subcarbonate of soda, such as, when crystallised, is used by washer- women. It is prepared by burning the plant Salsola soda, which in Spain is called barilla. The Spanish preparation of these ashes is the best, yet that contains only from 25 to 40 per cent, of carbonate of soda, the remainder being chiefly common and other salts. BARKS. In many of the practical arts the utility of different barks is very great and ex- tensive ; for instance, that of the oak, quercitron, and wattle, for dyeing, and for tanning leather, and manuring the soil; the Peruvian, cinna- mon, quassia, willow-bark, &c., in medicine and for culinary uses ; that of the alder and walnut trees, in dyeing ; and others again for a variety of purposes, such as the bark of the cork tree, &c. Without detailing the particular and curious pi'ocesses adopted by foreign nations for rendering the barks of vainous trees essen- tially useful we shall briefly state that the Japanese make their beautiful paper of the bark obtained from a species of the mulberiy tree; the natives of Otaheite manufacture their cloth of the same tree, as well as the bread-BAR BAR [ 67 ] fruit and the cocoa trees; the Russians and Poles produce their shoes worn by the peasantry, twist ropes, and form a variety of mats and other useful articles of the inner bark of the lime tree; the Germans have, for the last twenty years, converted the bark of the common black and white mulberry trees into excellent paper. We will confine our attention here to Peru- vian bark. There are three principal species of this. The tree which yields this celebrated bark is a native of Peru. It was first observed a few miles south of Loxa, a small town on the river Catamayo, nearly in the same meridian with Quito, but in south latitude 4° 1', and at a height of nearly 7000 feet above the level of the sea. The use of this bark in curing inter- mittent fevers was known to the Americans before the conquest of Peru, but they concealed its virtues from the Spaniards in consequence of the detestation in which they held them. It was known, however, to the Corregidor of Loxa in 1638. In that year the lady of Count Cinchon, viceroy of Peru, was afflicted with an obstinate intermittent fever which her at- tendants were unable to cure. The Corregidor of Loxa informed of this sent a quantity of cinchona to the viceroy, assuring him that it would speedily remove the disease of the Coun- tess. In consequence of this information the Corregidor was himself summoned to Lima, in order to regulate the dose, and point out the method of administering the remedy. Some trials being previously made upon other patients, the Countess took the medicine, and was cured. It was this cure that gave the bark celebrity, and made it known in Europe as a remedy for intermittent fevers. The Countess brought large quantities of it to Lima, where it was known by the name of powder of the Countess, and distributed it to all who were afflicted with intermittent fevers. Some months after (pro- bably when Count Cinchon returned to Spain in 1639,) she consigned her whole stock of bark to the Jesuits, who continued for some time to distribute it gratis. Hence it came to be known under the name of Jesuits' bark. The Jesuits afterwards sent a cargo of it to Cardinal de Lugo at Rome, who distributed it with the same success as the Jesuits had done at Lima, and afterwards consigned it to the Apothecaries' Company at Rome. Hence it came to be known in Italy by the name of powder of the Cardinal. It was about this time that Louis XIV., while Dauphin, was cured of an intermittent fever by the use of this bark. As he became king in 1643, it is obvious that the cure must have ; been effected before that period. In 1640, when Count Cinchon had returned to Spain, his physician, Dr. Juan de Vega, who li i! had brought a cargo of it from Peru, sold it publicly in Spain at the rate of 100 reals a pound. The sale continued at this price till most of the cinchona trees in the neighbour- hood of Loxa being exhausted, those whose business it was to collect the bark began to adulterate it by mixing the barks of many other trees. This speedily brought it into such dis- credit, that the price sank to eight reals a pound. 1. The pale bark, which is the kind originally brought from Loxa, in Peru, is the bark of the Cinchona lancifolia. This tree is found chiefly in the neighbourhood of the village of Ayavaca, at a height of about 7000 feet above the level of the sea, where the mean temperature is about 60". It is a lofty and handsome evergreen tree from 30 to 40 feet high, and standing usually single, whereas the other species of cinchona are found in groups. The pale bark is now, comparatively speaking, rare. It is known to the English by the name of crown bark. Two other varieties, probably from distinct species, are known in commerce by the names of Lagartijada (lizard- like), and negrilla (blackish), from the colour of their epidermis. The branches are barked in dry seasons from September to November, and the bark is carefully dried in the sun. The trees frequently die after this operation. The bark arrives in Europe packed in chests made of slips of wood roughly fastened together, and covered with skins. Each chest contains about 200 lbs., well packed, but generally mixed with dust and other foreign matter. The pieces are about 9 inches in length, some of them scarcely one-tenth of an inch in thickness, singly or doubly quilled, the quills being in size from a swan's quill to 1^ inch. Some pieces have a coarser texture, are thicker, and nearly flat It has a chopped, greyish-coloured epidermis, often much covered with lichens. The colour is pale fawn, and, when it is moistened, pale orange. 2. The red bark was introduced into com- merce by Don Sebastian Joseph Lopez Ruiz in 1778. It is considered as the bark of the Cinchona ohlongifolia of Mutis. The tree which yields it is found in the Andes, growing abundantly along the banks of the mountain streams at Riobamba, Chinchao, Cuchero, and Chacahnassi. It rises to a very considerable height, and is covered with smooth, brownish bark. The bark is brought to this country in chests, containing from 100 lbs. to 160 lbs. each. It consists of various-sized pieces, covered with a thin, rough, reddish-brown epidermis. Most of the pieces are flat, though some are partially quilled. Under the epidermis there is an in- termediate layer, which is dark-coloured, com-BAR [ 68 ] BAR pact, brittle, and seemiugly resinous. The internal part is woody, fibrous, and of a rust- red colour. The powder is of a deeper colour than even the internal part of the bark. 3. The yellow bark is the most employed, and most highly esteemed in this country. It is the bark of the Cinchona cordifolia of Mutis, a tree which grows in the mountains of Loxa, in the kingdom of Quito, and in those of Santa Fe, at about 7000 feet above the level of the sea. It is a spreading tree, covered with a smooth bark, externally of a brownish-grey colour. This bark is brought to this country in chests, containing from 90 lbs. to 100 lbs. each, and consists of pieces about 10 inches long, some of them quilled, but the greater number flat. The quilled pieces are less rolled, and thicker than the quilled pale bark; and the epidermis, which is of a greyish-brown colour, and covered with flat, stringy lichens, is more rough and chopped, easily separating, and often as thick as the bark itself, which is about one-eight of an inch. The inner bark has a yellow colour, passing into orange. The flat pieces are generally without epidermis, and considerably thicker than the quilled. Both are mixed in the same chest. Cold water extracts its bitter taste, with some share of its odour; when assisted by a moderate heat the infusion is stronger, but becomes turbid as it cools. The infusion cannot be kept, even for a short time, without undergoing decompo- sition and being spoiled. Wine also extracts the virtues of bark, and is prevented by this substance from becoming sour—a fact which probably depends upon the avidity with which some of the principles of bark combine with oxygen, and which may throw some light upon the cause of its antiseptic virtues. The colour- ing matter of wine is precipitated by bark, as it is by charcoal, in the course of a few days. By decoction the active matter of cinchona is in a great degree extracted, but if the process be protracted beyond eight or ten minutes it under- goes a very important chemical change, the precise nature of which is not well understood. The balance of affinities, however, by which the different elements are united is evidently over- thrown, and a considerable precipitation en- sues ; oxygen would also appear to have been absorbed. Whether the cinchona becomes insoluble has not yet been ascertained, but experience has shown that the general loss of solubility, pro- duced by such a process, is accompanied with a corresponding loss of medicinal activity; on which account the extract is necessarily a very inefficient preparation; if we attempt to re- dissolve it not more than one half is soluble in water. Vinegar is a less powerful solvent than water. The active matter of bark is rendered more soluble by the addition of mineral acids, and by the earth and alkalies; these latter bodies deepen its colour. Lime water has been recommended as a solvent, and it affoi'ds an excellent form for children and dyspeptic patients. For the same reason we obtain a stronger and perhaps a more efficient prepara- tion by pounding it with magnesia previous to the process of infusion. Alcohol (spirit of wine) is a very powerful solvent, but the great activity of this menstruum so limits its dose that we are prevented from exhibiting a sufficient quantity of the bark in the form of tincture. It furnishes, however, an excellent adjunct to other prepara- tions. In cases where it is necessary to join cordials an infusion of bark in port wine is a popular and very useful form for its administration. I)ose of the powder, 5 grains to 2 drachms or more ; of the infusion or decoction, 2 ozs. Medical uses. It is powerfully tonic and anti- septic. It was introduced into practice for curing intermittent fevers, but since that period it has been generally used in diseases of debility, in fevers of the typhoid type, and in gangrene. It was first conjectured to be useful in gout by Sydenham, and Dr. Haygarth has strongly re- commended its exhibition in acute rheumatism. When, however, it is used in these diseases, the greatest attention ought to be paid to the state of the bowels, and purgatives should be occa- sionally interposed. In dyspepsia the use of the purer bitters is to be greatly preferred to that of the bark. BARLEY, besides being employed for agri- cultural purposes, is used largely in every household, either as malt, barleymeal, pot barley, or pearl barley. Of Malt we shall speak under that title. Barleymeal is merely barley ground into flour, and has a peculiar mawkish flavour, owing to an essential oil in the bran or skin of the seed. Pot or Scotch barley is barley from which the outer skin has been removed. Pearl, or, as it was formerly called, French barley, is the small round kernel remaining after the skin and a considerable por- tion of the barley have been ground off in a mill constructed for the purpose. Pearl barley ground to flour is sold under the name of patent barley. In both states it is used extensively for the diet of sick persons ; but both pot and peaid barley are also much employed as a substitute for rice in broths, stews, and puddings. Barley broth is a constant dish at the table of many persons in Scotland. In Holland pot bai'ley, boiled in buttermilk and sweetened with treacle, is a common dish for children and servants. Dr. Duncan says that barley is one of our most valuable grains, and is used in many ways.BAR BAR [ 69 ] Entire, it is given as food to horses; and pearl barley and barleymeal are used by man, especially in northern countries. The former is eaten boiled until it is soft, either simply with some condiment, as salt, sugar, currants, cinnamon, or made into broth with meat, either alone or with other vegetables. The flour is used in the form of porridge and unleavened cakes. It cannot be made into bread, and is incapable of the panary fermentation, which is owing to the small proportion of gluten in its composition. It is probably for the same reason that it is less nutritious. On the other hand, it has the advantage of having no tendency to induce constipation, so that some persons, who are habitually costive, derive great advantage from the use of barleymeal cakes and porridge. Hufeland highly praises what he calls prepared barleymeal as a nutritious food, easy of diges- tion, and devoid of all stimulus in atrophic diseases and hectic fever. It is prepared by tying barleymeal up in a cloth and boiling it till everything soluble is removed. On the contrary, it is the soluble part which is made use of in barley water. BARLEY BROTH. To 4ozs. of Scotch barley, washed in cold water, add the same quan- tity of sliced onions; put them into 5 quarts of water, boil gently an hour, and then pour it into a pan. Next put into a saucepan from 1 oz. to 2 ozs. of beef or mutton-dripping, clari- fied or melted suet, or 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of fat bacon, chopped small. When melted, stir in 4 ozs. of oatmeal, and rub these together till they be- come a paste; then put it in the barley broth by spoonsful, gradually, and stir the whole till it boils. Season it by putting into a tea- cup 1 drachm of pounded celery or cress seed, J drachm of pounded Cayenne, or 1^ drachm of black pepper or allspice; then mix a little of this with the soup, pour it into the rest, simmer the whole a quarter of an hour, add salt, and it is ready. BARLEY BROTH (Scotch). Wash f lb. of Scotch barley in some cold water, put it into a soup-kettle with a shin or leg of beef, or a knuckle of veal, of about 10 lbs. weight, divided into four pieces; cover the whole well with cold water; set it over the fire; when it begins to boil, skim it clean and put in two large onions ; set it by the side of the fire to simmer gently about two hours ; take off all the fat, and put in two heads of celery and a large turnip cut in small pieces; season the whole with salt, and let it boil an hour and a half longer. Take out the meat and skim the broth carefully before you put it into the tureen. By making the soup the day beforehand and letting it stand to cool, i much fat may be taken off, which, when clarified, will be useful for drippings. BARLEY CREAM. Boil a little pearl barley in milk and water till tender, and then strain off the liquor. Put the barley into one quart of cream and let it just boil. Take the whites of 5 eggs and the yolk of 1 egg, and beat them up with 1 spoonful of fine flour and double that quantity of orange-flower water. On taking the cream from the fire, mix in the egg by degrees, and then set the pan on again. Sweeten the cream to your taste, and when thick pour it into basins. BARLEY GRUEL. Take 3 ozs. of pearl barley, of which make 1 quart of barley water. If not to be white, shift it once or twice; put in 2 ozs. of currants, clean picked and washed, and when they are plumped, pour out the gruel, and let it cool a little ; then put in the yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, ^ pint of white wine, and i pint of new thick cream, and some lemon- peel ; then sweeten with fine sugar to taste; stir it gently over the fire until it is as thick as cream. BARLEY POSSET. Boil 1 lb. of French barley in 3 quarts of milk; when boiled enough, put in 3 quarts of cream, some cinnamon and mace ; sweeten it with sugar; let it stand until it is but just warm; then put in 1 quart of white wine; froth it up. To be eaten either with a spoon or the liquor may be pressed out to drink. BARLEY SUGAR (1). Put clarified syrup {see Syrup) into a saucepan, and boil it to a carimel height [see Carimel), taking off the scum as it rises. Having prepared a marble slab with butter or oil, pour the syrup along it in long slips ; then twist it while hot at each end, and let it stand till cold. Rasped lemon- peel boiled in the syrup enriches the flavour much. Barley-sugar drops are made nearly in the same way; only, when the sugar is boiled, pour it out in drops from a ladle on white paper covered with sifted sugar. BARLEY SUGAR (2). Boil some clarified sugar until it reaches that state that on dipping the finger into the pan the sugar which adheres to it will break with a slight noise ; this is called crack. When the sugar is nearly in this state, put in two or three drops of lemon-juice, or as much vinegar, to keep it from graining or crys- tallising ; also a drop of citron-juice, which will greatly improve the flavour. When it has come to the crack state, take the pan off from the fire instantly, and dip it into cold water to pre- vent the sugar bui'ning. Let it remain for a few minutes, and then pour it on a marble slab which has been oiled previously. Cut the cake of sugar into long slips, and make it into any form desired. BARLEY SYRUP. Make of 1 lb. of barley 8 quarts of barley water; strain out the barley.[ 70 ] BAR BAR and put to the water a handful of scallions, and of tormentil, hyssop, agrimony, horehound, maiden- hair, sanicle, betony, borage, bugloss, rosemary, marigolds, sage, violets, and cowslips, of each 1 pint when picked; 1 lb. of raisins, stoned; i lb. of figs, cut; i lb. of dates, stoned; ^ lb. of green liquorice; caraway, fennel, and aniseed, of each 1 oz.; hartshorn, ivy, elecampane roots, of each 1 oz. ; the roots of fennel, asparagus, couch-grass, polypodium, and oak parsley, of each a handful. Clean, bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all into the barley water; cover close, and boil gently for twelve hours; then strain and press out the juice, and let it stand twenty-four hours. When clean, add to it rose water and hyssop, | pint of each and 1 pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, 1 drachm of saf- fron, 3 pints of the best honey, and 5 lbs. of sugar. Boil this an hour and a half, keeping it well scummed ; then bottle it; cork it well, and put by for use. BARLEY WATER (1). Put 1 oz. of pearl barley into i pint of water, and set it over the fire. When hot, pour off the water, and add 1 quart of fresh to the barley; let it simmer for an hour. If too thick put in more water, hut let it be warm. BARLEY WATER (2). Wash 9 table- spoonsful of pearl barley; then add to it 1 pint of boiling water, and let it boil for five minutes. Pour away this water, and add to the barley !i quarts of boiling water, and boil until only 2^ pints remain ; then strain it. This is plain barley water, but it may be made very agree- able by adding 1 oz. of figs, 2 ozs. of raisins, and i oz. of liquorice, boiling the liquor until reduced to 1 quart, and then straining for use. If 1 quart more boiling water be put upon the same barley, together with the peel of a lemon, boiled for a quarter of an hour, strained, and the juice of the lemon added, a very refreshing drink will be formed, but, of course, not so nourishing as that first made. BARLEY WINE, or Ale, is made of 14 quarters of pale malt, mashed at three times with 28, 18, and 18 barrels of water, boiled with 112 lbs. of hops, set with 36 lbs. of yeast. Cleanse with 4 lbs. of salt, and it produces 34 barrels, or 1 gallon 1 pint of ale from each gallon of malt. BARM. See Yeast. BAROMETER, or Weather Glass, shows really the weight of-the atmosphere pressing on the earth at the time of the observation. The average amount of this pressure at London is equal to supporting 29-88 inches of mercury in the glass tube of the barometer. This is so near to 30 inches that, e.xcepting where very great accuracy is required, 30 inches is assumed as the annual average. The mercury rises with N.E. and falls with S.W. winds. At London, with a Inches N. wind, the barometer averages 29 89 N.E. „ 20-9.5 E. „ 29-88 S.E. „ 29-78 S. „ 29-69 S.W. „ 29-73 W. „ 29-81 N.W. „ 29-84 The lower the barometer, that is, the less pressure there is at the time from the atmo- sphere, so in proportion does water boil at a lower temperature. One consequence of this is that eggs require then to be boiled longer; and, evidently from the same cause, we have noticed that, permanently, eggs required to be boiled longer when we were living on a hill of about 400 feet elevation than when we lived in a neighbouring valley. We annex such rules as have hitherto been found most useful in ascertaining the changes of the weather by means of the barometer. 1. The rising of the mercury presages in general fair weather; and its falling, foul weather, as rain, snow, high winds, and storms. 2. In very hot weather, especially if the wind is south, the sudden falling of the mercury foretells thunder. 3. In winter the rising indicates frost; and in frosty weather, if the mercury falls three or four divisions, there will follow a thaw; but if it rises in a continued frost, snow may be expected. 4. When foul weather happens soon after the falling of the mercury, it will not be of long duration; nor are we to expect a continuance of fair weather when it soon succeeds the rising of the quicksilver. 5. If, in foul weather, the mercury rises considerably, and continues rising for two or three days before the foul weather is over, a continuance of fair weather may be expected to follow. 6. In fair weather, when the mercury falls much and low, and continues falUng for two or three days before rain comes, much wet must be expected, and probably high winds. 7. The unsettled motion of the mercury indicates changeable weather. 8. Respecting the words engraved on the register-plate of the barometer, it may be ob- served, that they cannot be strictly relied upon to correspond exactly with the state of the weather; though it will in general agree with them as to the mercury rising and falling. The words deserve to be particularly noticed when the mercury removes from ''changeable" up- wards; as those on the lower part should be adverted to when the mercury falls from " change-C 71 ] BAR BAR able" downwards. In other cases they are of no use; for, as its riung in any part forebodes a tendency to fair, and its falling to foul weather, it follows that, though it descends in the tube from settled to fair, it may nevertheless be at- tended with a little rain; and when it rises from the words " much rain " to " rain," it shows only an inclination to become fair, though the wet weather may still continue in a less con- siderable degree than it was when the mercury began to rise; but if the mercury, after having fallen to "much rain," should ascend to "change- able," it foretells fair weather, though of a shorter continuance than if the mercury had risen still higher; and so, on the contrary, if the mercury stood at "fair" and descends to "changeable," it announces foul weather, though not of so long continuance as if it had fallen lower. 9. Persons who have occasion to travel much in the winter, and who are doubtful whether it will rain or not, may easily ascertain this point by the following observation. A few hours before he departs let the traveller notice the merciuy in the upper part of the tube of the barometer: if rain is about to fall, it will be indented or concave; if otherwise,, convex or protuberant. The following remarks by a late eminent agriculturist (Mr. Mills) may serve more fully to elucidate the nature and uses of the baro- meter to all who are engaged in agricultural pursuits. He observes that when the character of the season is once ascertained, the returns of rain or fair weather may be judged of with some degree of certainty in some years, but scarcely guessed at in others, by means of the barometer; for in general we may expect that when the mercury rises high a few days of fair weather will follow. If the mercury falls again in two or three days, but soon rises high, with- out much rain, we may expect fair weather for several days; and in this case, the clearest days are after the mercury begins to fall. In like manner, if the mercury falls very low, with much rain ; rises soon, but falls again in a day or two, with rain; a continuance of bad weather may be feared. If the second fall does not bring much rain, but the mercury rises gradually pretty high, it prognosticates settled, good wea- ther of some continuance. When a heavy rain has fallen upon the mercury's sinking, and its continuing steadily low, the weather is some- times fair, and promises well; but no prudent farmer should trust to such appearances. There is, indeed, a caution of this kind which the poorest may profit by. When the mercury rises high in the barometer the moisture on the surface of the earth disappears. This, even though the sky be overcast, is a sure sign of fair weather; but if the earth continues moist, and water stands in shallow places, no trust should be put in the clearest sky, for it is in this case deceitful. Towards the end of March, or more gene- rally in the beginning of April, the barometer sinks very low, with bad weather; after which it seldom falls lower than 29° 5' till the latter end of September or October, when the quick- silver falls again low, with stormy winds, for then the winter constitution of the air takes place. From October to April the great falls of the barometer are from 29° 5' to 28° 5', and sometimes lower; whereas during the summer constitution of the air the quicksilver seldom falls lower than 29° 5'. It therefore follows that a fall of one-tenth of an inch during the summer is as sure an indication of rain as a fall of between two and three-tenths is in the winter. It must, however, be observed that these heights of the barometer hold good only in places nearly on a level with the sea; for experiments have taught us that for every 80 feet of nearly perpendicular height that the barometer is placed above the level of the sea, the quicksilver sinks one-tenth of an inch. Observations alone, therefore, must determine the heights of the quicksilver, which in each place denote either fair or foul weather. Very heavy thunderstorms happen without sensibly affecting the barometer, and in this case the storm seldom reaches far. When a thunderstorm is attended with a fall of the baro- meter its effect is much more extensive. When the quicksilver falls very low, and the weather continues mild and the wind moderate, there is at the same time a violent storm in some distant place. This accounts for a false prognostic with which the barometer has often been unjustly charged. The effects which heat, cold, and wind, severally produce on the glass, inde- pendently of the dry or humid state of the atmosphere, should likewise be considered. BARREL. A barrel is 36 gallons, and other casks are multiples or parts of 36. Thus a hogshead is 1^ barrel, a puncheon 2 barrels, a butt 3 barrels, a firkin a quarter of a barrel, and a kilderkin half a barrel. When casks have any ill smell, hot lime and water, or char- coal and water, often cures them ; but brewers usually take out the head and place them over a fire, so as to char the inside, and then soak them in boiling liquor. BARS, BRIGHT, require daily attention, and as this attention involves but little labour, it is no great hardship ; but if neglect allows rust once to appear upon the bars, it is a toil- some undertaking to remove that rust. Bright bars are now usually made removeable, which facilitates the cleaning process. They, as well[ 72 ] BAT BAS as polished fire-irons, if they have not been allowed to rust, merely require to be rubbed daily with a very dry leather. The higher the polish the less is the liability to rust. If they have to be stored away, previously brush over them a mixture composed of two parts copal varnish, one part olive oil, and two parts spirit of tui-pentine. If rust has made its appearance upon bright bars or fire-irons, mix together thoroughly 2 ozs. of tripoli and 1 oz. of flowers of sulphur, and rub this upon the rusted spots with a piece of soft leather. BASIL VINEGAR. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh green leaves of basil, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days. If you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let it steep fourteen days longer. BASILICON OINTMENT is the resinous cerate, Unguentum resincB, of medical men—a preparation consisting of eight parts of hog's lard, five of white resin, and two of yellow wax; or, according to the London College, of nearly equal parts of yellow resin, beeswax, and olive oil. The former ingredients, prescribed by the Edinburgh College, are cheaper and equally efficacious. This ointment is generally employed in the dressing of wounds and ulcers, for digesting and cleansing them, as well as for promoting their healing. Modern sui'geons, however, are not willing to attribute any considerable effect to external applications ; for they are well convinced that the healing of wounds depends more on the spontaneous efforts of nature, especially in a sound and healthy constitution, than upon any artificial aid by liniments, un- guents, or plasters; and that little benefit can be derived from them, unless the diseased part be properly dressed and cleansed, while the internal state of the body should also be duly attended to. Yet there are instances on record in which the basilicon, combined either with a small proportion of the red precipitate of mercury, or, which is still better, the juice of the burdock root, has proved efficacious in heal- ing scrofulous ulcers, especially those situated near the articulations of bones. Black basilicon is in every respect but colour the same ointment, with black resin employed instead of yellow. BASKET VARNISH is employed for var- nishing ladies' straw baskets, straw hats, &c. Pound 2 ozs., or any other quantity, of sealing- wax, of black or any desired colour; sift it through fine muslin, put the powder into a wide-mouthed phial, and add 1 oz. of rectified spirit of wine; let them remain for two days, shaking the mixture often. Then, with a hog's bristle brush, such as is used by house painters, apply it to the basket or other article requiring to be varnished. When quite dry, apply another coating of the varnish. BASKETS are made of various materials, such as osiers, rushes, deal shavings, and straw. They are likewise of various and uncertain sizes. A basket of medlars contains 2 bushels, a basket of asafoetida from 20 lbs. to 50 lbs., and a basket of salt, 7 lbs. In Covent Garden market the following baskets are employed :— Sea-kale punnets—8 inches in diameter at the top, and 7^ inches at the bottom, and 2 inches deep. Radish punnets— 8 inches in diameter and 1 inch deep, if to hold six hands; or 9 inches by 1 inch for twelve hands. Mushroom punnets—7 inches by 1 inch Salading punnets—5 inches by 2 inches. Sieve—Contains 7 imperial gallons. It is a round basket, of which the diameter is 15 inches and depth 8 inches. Half-sieve—Contains 3^ imperial gallons. It averages 12^ inches in diameter, and 6 inches in depth. Currant sieve—Contains 2J pecks. Bushel sieve—10^ imperial gallons. Di- ameter at top, 17f inches ; at bottom, 17 inches; depth, 11J inches. Bushel basket—Ought, when heaped, to con- tain an imperial bushel. Diameter at bottom, 10 inches ; at top, \i\ inches; depth, 17 inches. Walnuts, nuts, apples, and potatoes, are sold by this measure. A bushel of the last-named, cleaned, weighs 56 lbs.; but 4 lbs. additional are allowed if they are not washed. Pottle is a long basket, tapering down to the bottom, containing about a pint and a half, used in selling strawberries, raspberries, and forced mushrooms, by retail. BASTING is the fixing together of the parts of a dress, or other needlework, by means of long stitches, so that the final sewing may be done more readily and accurately. As the thread used for this purpose is wasted, that should be purchased for the purpose which is sold very cheap by haberdashers under the descriptive name of basting cotton. BASTINGS in cookery are composed of either of the following:—1. Fresh butter; 2. Cla- rified suet; 3. Minced sweet herbs, butter, and claret, especially for mutton and lamb; 4. Water and salt; 5. Cream and melted butter, especially for a flayed pig; 6. Yolks of eggs, grated biscuit, and juice of oranges. BATEMAN'S ITCH OINTMENT. One ounce of hogs' lard, 1 oz. of flowers of sulphur, 20 grains of carbonate of potass in powder, 5 grains of red sulphm'et of mercury, 4 drops of 011 of bergamot, and | drachm fluid of rose water. Mix thoroughly the dry ingredients with a little of the lard; warm the remainder before addingBAT BAT [ 73 ] it; then add the hergamot and the rose water, previously warmed, graduall}^ and stir the whole until cold. To be rubbed upon the parts where the eruption appears. BATEMAN'S PECTORAL DROPS are composed chiefly of tincture of castor, i oz., with the addition of paregoric, 1 oz.; lauda- num, J oz.; oil of anise, 3 drops; and tincture of cochineal, for colouring, | drachm. A tea- spoonful to be talien occasionally when the cough is troublesome. BATES'S ALUM WATER. This is the compound solution of alum of the London " Pharmacopoeia," formed by dissolving J oz. of alum and the same quantity of white vitriol (sulphate of zinc) in 1 pint of boiling water, and when cold filtering it through blotting-paper. It is used for cleansing and healing ulcers and wounds, and for removing eruptions on the skin, by bathing the part with it hot three or four times a day. It is also used to bathe weak eyes, being very bracing. BATES'S ANODYNE BALSAM is formed by mixing together 1 oz. of opodeldoc (compound soap liniment) and J oz. of laudanum. It resem- bles the anodyne liniment of the Dublin " Phar- macopoeia." It is useful in removing pain by rubbing it strongly on the part affected. BATH : Alkaline. Carbonate of soda, 12ozs.; water, 65 gallons. Antimonial. Tartrate of potash and anti- mony, I oz. or 2 ozs.; water, 65 gallons. Used for skin diseases and lumbago. Aromatic. Boil in 1| gallon of water 4 ozs. of the dried tops of each of the following herbs : hyssop, lavender, pennyroyal, peppermint, rose- mary, sage, thyme, and wormwood. Strain the liquor and add it to 50 gallons of water. Used in rheumatism, diarrhoea, &c. Astwngent. Alum in powder, \ lb.; water, 25 gallons. Bran. Boil 4 lbs. of bran in 2 gallons of water; strain, and add 50 gallons of water of sufficient heat to be at 90° when the patient bathes. Ex- cellent as an emollient in severe colds, &c. Hemlock. Dried herb of hemlock, 2 ozs.; water, 1 gallon. After soaking for eight hours, strain, and bathe, at a temperature of 90°, the part diseased. Useful in some diseases of the skin. NiTRO-MTJRiATic AciD. One pound of nitric acid ; 1^ lb. of hydrochloric acid ; water, at 90°, 40 gallons. Immerse the patient for fifteen minutes. Used in liver complaints, gall stones, &c. Used daily for a fortnight or three weeks. Sea-Water, Dissolve in each gallon of water, 2>\ ozs. of common salt; l|oz. of glauber salt (sulphate of soda); \ oz. oi chloride of cal- cium ; and oz. of chloride of magnesium. Sulphuretted. Dissolve 4 ozs. of sulphuret of potash in 1 pint of water; add it to 60 gallons of water and 1 oz. fluid of sulphuric acid. For children half the above quantities to 60 gallons of water. Useful in various skin diseases. BATH BRICKS, used for scouring bright, coarse metallic articles, are composed of flinty or silicious sand very finely divided. These bricks are made of a dejiosit of clay and sand found in the bed of the river Parret, at Bridgewater, in Somersetshire, and form an important article of local trade. They were formerly secured by patent, but are now manu- factured by several makers. This sand has also clay in its composition just sufficient to cause the sand to hold together in the form of a brick, when wetted and moulded, without being burnt. For cleaning knives it is best used dry, but for scouring brass it may be used damped. When mahogany furniture is very dirty from long neglect and bad treatment, rub oil over the furniture with a bit of flannel or a small painting-brush. It must be cold- drawn linseed oil. Then put some brickdust into the leg of a fine old worsted stocking, free from holes; tie the stocking at each end, leaving the brickdust rather loose in the middle, and shake the dust over the oiled furniture ; then take a piece of soft carpeting or woollen cloth, and rub the furniture for a long time, with the grain of the wood, occasionally repeating the oil and brickdust, till the furniture is perfectly clean; then clear off the remains, if any, of the oil and brickdust, and, with a piece of clean flannel, or another piece of clean, soft carpeting, and a handful or two of bran, in a very short time a beautiful and durable polish will be obtained that will not soil by the touch. BATH BUNS (1). Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1 pint of ale yeast, with a glass of mountain wine, and a little orange-flower water, and 3 beaten eggs; knead the whole with some warm cream, a little nutmeg, and some salt; let it rise before the fire, and then knead in 1 lb. of butter, and as much caraway comfits. Make the whole into buns, and bake them on floured papers in a quick oven. BATH BUNS (2). Rub together with the hand 1 lb. of fine flour and |- lb. of butter ; beat 6 eggs, and add them to the flour with a table- spoonful of good yeast. Mix them altogether with a tea-cupful of milk ; set it in a warm place for an hour; mix in 6 ozs. of sifted sugar and a few caraway seeds. Make them into buns with a table-spoon on a baking-plate; throw six or eight caraway comfits on each, and bake in a hot oven about ten minutes. These quan- tities should make eighteen buns. BATH WATERS. These arise from various springs situated at Bath, in Somersetshire, and for the following particulars we are indebted to Dr. Mackenzie[ 74 ] BAT BAT The principal springs of the Bath waters are three, and arise within a short distance of each other, near the river Avon. The King's and Queen's Baths are supplied by the same spring; but the Hot Bath and the Cross Bath by sepa- rate springs. " The temperature of the King's Bath water, as drawn at the pump, is 114° Fahr.; that of the Hot Bath in Hetling Court is 116°; and that of the water of the Cross Bath pump is 107°." These higli temperatures they, however, lose in flowing into their spacious baths. Thus " the water at the edge of the King's Bath is about 98°; over the spring it is above 100°; and as the King's and Queen's Baths are a continuation of the same water, part of the Queen's Bath is about 98°, lessening in its temperature as it recedes from the spring. The temperature of the Hot Bath is above 100°, and of the Cross Bath from 92° to 96°." The specific gravity of the King's and Hot Baths is 1-0020, and the Cross Bath 1-0018. The waters in the three baths differ slightly in chemical composition. Dr. Falconer has estimated that the solid residuum from a gallon of each water is in the proportion of 71 grains in that of the King's Bath, 78 grains in that of the Hot Bath, and 86 grains in the Cross Bath. Of 80 grains of each residuum the saline part, soluble in water, was 31 grains in the first, 29 in the second, and only 11 in the third. This latter, therefore, contains much more insoluble matter; and as this residuum does not effervesce very strongly with nitrous acid, it is probably chiefly sulphate of lime. The depth of the colour produced with tincture of galls was the greatest in the first-mentioned water, less in the second, and least of all in the third. The degree of precipitation with lime- water followed the same order. Hence we may conclude that the King's Bath water is the strongest chalybeate, that it contains the most carbonic acid and active neutral salts, and the least of the selenite and other earthy residuum. The Hot Bath water is a very little weaker as a chalybeate, as well as in gaseous and saline contents, but yields more earthy residuum. The Cross Bath water is still less gaseous, chaly- beate, and saline, but much more earthy. These waters have been the subject of various other chemical investigations at different times. From the analysis by Mr. Phillips it appears that the gaseous fluid that arises with the waters, and is separated in bubbles over the spring, consists of:— Grains Carbonic acid gas ........ 5 Nitrogen gas 95 100 Dr. Gibbes suspects that oxygen gas forms a small part of the composition from some dim- inution of bulk in the fluids, and the evident discoloration which takes place on the addition of nitrous gas. One quart of the water, Mr. Phillips says, contains :— Cubic Inches Carbonic acid . . « 2'4 Grains Sulphate of lime 18* Muriate of soda 6'6 Sulphate of soda 3 0 Carbonate of lime 1-6 Silica -4 Oxide of iron -00394 29'60394 Loss .... -39606 30- The result of the experiments of Dr. Wilkin- son on the Bath waters is, that in 400 grains of the gross residuum from the water of the Kings- ton Bath there exists :—- Graine Sulphate of lime ....... 231 Muriate of soda 84 Sulphate of soda 45 Carbonate of lime 22 Oxy-carbonate of iron 6-6 Silex 5 Variable quantity, vegetable extract . 2-5 3-95-1 Loss ..... 4'9 400 And that in the same quantity of solid contents of the other springs, called the Hot Bath, the King's Bath, and the Cross Bath, the two former evinced the same proportions with the Kingston water, but that the Cross Bath water afforded a much larger proportion of a calcareous salt than of the alkaline salts. From the numerous chemical investigations, therefore, of these waters that have been made, the following general conclusion may be formed of their composition:—That they hold in solii- tion but little neutral salts with an alkaline base, and therefore are scarcely saline ; that they are, in a very slight degree, impregnated with carbonic acid; in a still slighter degree with iron, and, as it seems, only when hot from the spring; and that they contain a good deal of calcareous salts, and a little silicious earth, which renders them hard, and unfit for domestic pur- poses. Notwithstanding they possess very great medical powers, to whatever cause attributable. When drunk fresh from the springs they have, in most persons, the effect of raising and rather accelerating the pulse, increasing the heat, and exciting the secretions. These symp- toms take place in a few minutes after drinking them, and, in certain habits, will continue for a considerable time. They are thus a stimulant of a diffusible nature, acting more immediatelyBAT , BAT [ 75 ] on tlie nervous system, and particularly on the skin and kidneys. Their effects on the bowels, like that of all waters which contain but a minute quantity of any purgative salt, are un- certain. In general, however, they induce a costive habit of body, which should be obviated by occasional doses of some mild aperient medicine. The diseases for which they are resorted to are very numerous. In most of them the bath is employed along with the internal use of the water. They are indicated in all those cases where a gentle, gradual, and permanent stimulus is re- quired ; and where there is no circumstance to occasion danger from the sudden heat and increase of pulse which so often attend their exhibition. Their heating quality points out the necessity of much caution in their employment, which might often do considerable injury in various cases of active inflammation, especially in irrit- able habits, where there exists a strong tendency to hectic fever; in diseased and suppurating viscera, and wherever a dry tongue and quick pulse indicate a degree of general fever. The disorders, therefore, to which they are suited are of the chronic kind, and are the following: chlorosis and menstrual obstructions ; affections which bear the pieparations of iron well, and are at all times relieved by their administration : in these cases the bath will eminently assist to remove that languor of circulation, and obstruc- tion of the natural evacuations, which characterise these frequent and distressing maladies of the female sex. Hypochondriasis, dyspeptic dis- orders, spasms of the stomach and bowels, jaun- dice, arising from simple obstruction of the gall ducts in consequence of debility; and those morbid conditions of the system brought on by a long residence in a hot climate, or by intem- perance in a cold one, and marked by derange- ment in the biliary secretion, lassitude, and general weakness. By their power of exciting the motion of the vessels when languid, they are likewise effica- cious in inertia of the nervous system, as para- lytic affections. When these are seated in the extremities the waters are usually pumped upon the part. This pumping is strangely denomi- nated dry pumping, and this partial application is considered equally beneficial as the hot bath, and less stimulating to the general constitution. It is, consequently, much employed. Bath is greatly frequented by individuals afflicted with rheumatism and gout. The waters are, however, useful only when the inflammatory stage of these diseases is over, and when there i remain only signs of weakness of the organs of digestion, such as nausea, eructations, flatulence, and want of appetite. The quantity of water taken daily by adults, during a full course, is recommended by Br. Falconer not to exceed a pint and a half or two pints; and in chlorosis, with irritable habits, not more than one pint; and this allowance should be divided into three portions, of which two should be taken before breakfast, at dif- ferent times, and one afterwards. The morning is the time generally chosen for the bath, which is usually employed two or three times a week. The duration of the im- mersion should be regulated by the sensations of the invalid, and may be from ten minutes to half an hour, should no degree of lassitude or faintness occur. The choice of the baths is a matter of im- portance, from the great difference in their respective temperatures; the Cross Bath oeing about 94°, while that of the Kings Bath is at least 8° higher. The former is, consequently, a tepid bath, although it feels warm to the skin, and may be used for the common purposes of health ; but the latter is a hot bath, and should be confined to those cases requiring the most stimulating application, as rheumatic and para- lytic affections of the joints. The more tempe- rate seasons of the year are generally recom- mended for the use of the Bath waters, which should always be aided by moderate and regular exercise. The course should be continued for a considerable time, to make a fair trial of their efficacy, their operation being very gradual. The regimen should be suited to the nature of the disease, and the habits of life regular.— {Practical Observations on Mineral Waters.) BATHING. The following very sensible advice to bathers is given by Mr. Forsyth in his " Manual of Domestic Medicine." People of delicate constitutions, or those much weakened from disease, ought not to bathe until the sun approaches near to his meridian height; and, indeed, with those who enjoy a tolerable degree of health, it may not always be proper to bathe immediately after rising from bed in the morning, a time suitable to some constitutions, although not to others. There are a variety of circumstances here which require consideration. In sultry, moist weather bathing should be discontinued ; and patients in particular confined to their bed-chamber, with the windows of the apartments shut. A small, clear fire would also be a recommenda- tion, which, notwithstanding the state of the atmosphere, will not be found unacceptable to convalescents. Nothing can be more improper or inconsiderate than to immerse or to plunge the body hastily into cold water after a meal when the stomach is loaded with food. The process of digestion by such means is inter- rupted so as with difficulty to accomplish its object, independently of a variety of other incou-BAT BAT c C 76 ] Veniences known to occur after such a prema- ture step. People, therefore, of weak habits should stay until the digestion of their first meal is nearly perfected before they venture into the water. Bathing Dresses are too well known to need any description of them here ; they generally consist of porous flannel, open in front like a wrapper, with short, wide sleeves, that the water may come in contact with every part of the body as speedily as possible. To convalescents one plunge, or two at the utmost, is sufficient; after which they should dry and dress as speedily as possible. On coming out of the water, particularly after sea bathing, where the air is keen and sharp, although the heat of the water is more uniform than in rivers, should chilliness or trembling come on, a small quantity of weak brandy and water, to which a few drops of the compound spirit of lavender may be added, will be found to be the best restorative, using a gentle de- gree of exercise. Other means may be used should these prove insufficient, such as putting the patient to bed, and procui'ing warmth, &c. The pleasing glow of heat diffused over the body after cold bathing is a proof that it may be con- tinued with benefit. In the " EncyclopaBdia," published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, we have the following excellent remarks upon each description of bathing. The common division is into cold and warm; but various subdivisions are formed, marked by a certain range of temperature, which are designated:— 1. The cold bath from . . . 40° to 65° 2. The cool „ . . . C5 )> 75 8. The temperate „ . . . 75 )» 85 4. The tepid . . . 85 » 93 6. The warm bath „ . . . 93 » 98 6. Tlie hot bath „ . . . 98 113 The Cold Bath we shall treat of first as applied to the whole surface of the body. A healthy person upon entering a cold bath experiences a sensation of cold, followed by slight shuddering, and, if the immersion has been sudden, a peculiar impression on the nervous system, called a shock. The skin be- comes cooler and paler, the respiration hurried and irregular, the action of the kidneys increases, and the bladder contracts. In a few moments the colour and warmth return to the sldn and a glow is felt, especially if assisted by rubbing the surface. If the person remain more than five or ten minutes in the bath, the glow dis- appears and paleness returns, which again gives place, though less quickly and perfectly, to a renewed glow. During the existence of the primary action of the cold, the bulk of the whole body, but especially of the more con- tractile parts, diminishes. Should the stay in the water be greatly prolonged, no reaction ensues, but a general feeling of chilliness prevails, with quick, feeble pulse, convulsive breathing, cramps of the limbs, or fainting. If the person quit the bath after the few first minutes, as in prudence he should, the blood returns to the surface, accompanied with a sensation of pricking, itching, and sometimes throbbing of the arteries; the elasticity of the muscles being increased, more animal power is felt, accompanied with a general feeling of enjoyment. Very young or feeble individuals are either incapable of bearing the shock, or the reaction is so slight that they cannot endure to stay in the bath beyond a very short time. If they unwisely stay or are held in the bath longer than one or two minutes, the heat never regains its proper height, the extremities remain con- tracted, and they, as well as the lips, nose, &c., are of a livid hue. In such cases either artificial means must be used to bring about reaction, or the bath must be relinquished, as improper for such persons, as we shall show at a future part of our observations. The phenomena just described generally ac- company cold bathing; and it is clear that we can recognise in them a series of three or even four distinct actions; namely, 1st. The shock; 2nd. The cooling effect; 3rd. The contraction or astringent effect; and, 4th. The reaction. Cold bathing may be employed, therefore, in such a way as to ensure the predominance of one action over any of the rest, according to circumstances, where all are not desired. They vary with the degree of cold and the suddenness of the application, as well as from the body being plunged into the water, or the water dashed against the body. Where the shock, as a stimulus to the nervous system, is desired, the water should be very cold, and, where prac- ticable, should be dashed against the body, or, if the contrary, the stay in the bath should be momentary. This mode of using it may be either general or local. It has been employed generally, that is, the whole body exposed to the action of the water, in mania, with occasional success, and in the early stage of the common continued fever (under certain regulations, for which see Currie's "Medical Reports"), some- times with great success, cutting short the train of morbid actions which constitute the fever. It has been employed, also, in nervous affections, accompanied with a convulsive action, or deficient action of the muscular system, as in hysteria, in lock-jaw (see paper by Dr. Wright, " London Medical Observations and Inquiries," vol.yi., p. 143). In some cases of obstinate constipation dashing cold water on the person, or the coldBAT BAT [ 77 ] batli frequently repeated, has been of great service. Its stimulating effect is sometimes best pro- cured by a local application in the form of a stream of water falling on the head from a considerable height. The simplest example of this is the common practice of sprinkling the face with cold water in case of a tendency to faint; and in many diseases of the most dan- gerous character, it is a remedy superior to any other. It is called the cold dash, or douche, or dome, and is beneficially employed in fever, particularly when the brain continues the seat of inordinate action of the blood-vessels, after depletion has been carried as far as prudence will allow. (See the instructive case of Dr. Dill in Dr. Southwood Smith's " Treatise on Fever," p. 398.) It requires to be used with the greatest caution. Also in the state of stupor, or coma, which occurs in the last stage of hydrocephalus acutus, or water in the brain, it often succeeds in rescuing the patient from imminent danger. (See Abercrombie " On iDiseases of the Brain," first edit. 1828, p. 157.) Its utility is well known in the East in rousing drunken soldiers from their stupor so effectually as to enable them to rise up and apppear immediately on parade. In the melancholy and mania which overtake habitual drunkards it is of great ef&cacy, and also in cases of loss of nervous power from excessive mental exertion. In apoplectic stupor it has also been very advantageously employed. In the sinking stage of croup, when all other remedies have failed, cold affusion has some- times restored the functions of life to new action. The cooling or refrigerating effect of cold bathing is most desired in diseases where the animal heat rises above the proper standard, as in fevers, both continued and eruptive, especially scarlet fever; also, in some local inflammations, particularly of the brain. iFor the principles which should regulate our practice in this appli- cation we must refer to Dr. Currie and other writers, only remarking that in the hot and restless stage of scarlet fever, when the heat is steadily above the natural standard, the skin hot and dry, and neither sleep nor perspiration can be procured, a plunge into cold water will be followed by both, to the relief and often recovery of the patient. (See Bateman " On Cutaneous Diseases," edit. 1829, p. 120.) In applying cold locally, as in inflammation of the brain, one rule is of the utmost importance to be observed, viz., that the application of .the cold shall be continuous ; therefore a second 8Ct of cold cloths or bags of ice should be applied before the former has become warm. This plan, especially pursued during the night, along with judicious internal treatment, will save many children from perishing under the most insidious and fatal disease of childhood— water in the brain. The cases already mentioned are mostly acute diseases, where the cold affusion is employed to avert an imminent but temporary danger. It is generally in chronic diseases that the cold bath is employed for a length of time, and in these it is chiefly the secondary effect, the glow or reaction which is desired. The rules which are to be observed in order to obtain this effect, are founded upon the strength, which is generally inferred from the age of the individual. The degree of reaction is, for the most part, de- pendent upon the coldness of the water and the length of time the person remains in the bath. Very cold water, in which the person re- mains but a short time, will in general produce a greater degree of reaction than a more mode- rate temperature in which he remains longer. But here everything depends upon the general power of the individual, the state of the system, especially of the skin at the moment of immer- sion, and the nature of the bath, according as it is fresh or salt water, and also the season of the year. As the immersion of infants and young chil- dren in tubs of water must be considered as bathing, we deem it necessary here to explahi the principles upon which the temperature of the bath for them should be regulated, espe- cially during the season of winter. The experi- ments of Dr. Edwards (see Edwards " On the Influence of Physical Agents on Life," London, 1832,) have proved that the power of producing heat in warm-blooded animals is at its minimum at birth, and increases successively to adult age. It is clear, therefore, that water of a higher temperature than what feels cool to the hand of the nurse should be used, particularly in winter, when the power of regaining a proper degree of heat is necessarily less. The attempt to harden children, by exposure to too great a degree of cold, is of the most injurious nature. It either produces acute disease of the lungs, which are then very sensible to external im-^ pressions, or disease of the digestive organs, leading to disease of the mesenteric glands, scrofula, water in the brain, or, if they survive a few years, to early consumption. Delicate and feeble persons of all ages require a higher temperature of the bath, and a shorter stay in it than other people. If the reaction does not speedily take place, means must be employed to ensure its so doing, or the use of the cold bath must be abandoned. A tepid or temperate bath may be used in the early treatment of feeble persons, and the cold bath gradually substituted for it; or a glass of wine, or, which is far preferable, strong coffee or chocolate mayBAT BAT [ 78 ] be taken before entering the bath. Where the arrangements are snch as to admit of it, a brief stay in a warm bath before going into the cold has a good effect. Nor, in general, is danger to be apprehended from such a proceeding. Though in most cases moderate exercise is advantageous before bathing, unless the person has an opportunity of springing out of bed into the bath, still he should never think of undressing and going into the water when fatigued, or when the skin is covered with perspiration. It is a good rule to wet the head before taking the plunge. For a person in good health, early in the morning is the best time to bathe ; for one more delicate from two to three hours after breakfast is preferable; but no one should bathe immediately after a full meal, particularly if there be a tendency of blood to the head, and a disposition to apoplexy. Exercise while in the bath, such as friction of the limbs and chest, or swimming, is advisable, but not even this can prevent evil consequences if the bather remain too long in the water. To say nothing of the risk of cramps and convulsive action of the respiratory muscles, from the blood being pent up in the large internal vessels, which may occur while the person is in the water, the foundation may be laid for future internal disease if the blood does not soon revisit the surface, either from the natural powers of re- action or from friction with coarse, dry cloths. Friction should follow the use of the bath in most instances, except where the bath has been in the sea, in which case the salt particles, if allowed to remain in contact with the skin, stimulate it more. The cases of disease for which cold bathing is a valuable remedy are morbidly increased irritability and sensibility, accompanied with general debility. If the sensibility be extremely high, it is best to begin with the tepid or cool bath, and pass gradually to the cold. Where there is a tendency to colds and rheumatism the cold bath is an excellent preventive ; for this purpose it should be used continually throughout the year, and the chest should be sponged with cold water, or vinegar and water may be substituted in winter, when there are not facilities for using the complete bath. Before beginning this practice, careful investigation of the state of the mucous membranes of the chest and intestinal canals should be made, as it will certainly prove hurtful where chronic inflam- mation of these organs exists. If tubercles are suspected to exist in the lungs, cold bathing should be dispensed with. Though cold bathing is very useful in a tendency to scrofulous diseases, it is very hurtful when these are really developed, though tepid and warm bathing are allowable. Where the increased irritability shows itself in the mental functions or in the muscular system, as in hypochondriasis or hysteria, cold bathing is very useful; and especially in the hypochondriasis of literary persons, accompanied with a disposition to indigestion and a dry, harsh skin. In actual indigestion, especially if complicated with sub-acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach or intes- tines, cold bathing is very injurious. In cases of torpor and loss of power, cold bathing is of much service; in a relaxed state of the skin, subject to debilitating perspirations, it is often the most eff'ectual remedy; in weak- ness of the limbs, or of any member, and after sprains or paralysis, the local cold bath is very useful. The astringent as well as tonic effect of the cold bath is employed to prevent the prolapsus or descent of diff"erent parts: hence, in a tendency to hernia (or even when it has oc- curred ice laid upon the tumour, and frequently renewed, has restored the bowel to its place, or at least warded off the inflammation till other means could be tried), in loss of power of the sphincter muscles, or of the contractile power of the bladder, pumping cold water on the back is very useful; but it should be used only for a minute at a time. In chronic haemorrhages, cold applied locally or generally has a good efi'ect. The cold bath, like every other powerful agent, when improperly used, is capable of pro- ducing much mischief; in some states of the system it must be carefully avoided. In in- fancy and very advanced age it is less admissible than at other times, and even quite improper if the debility be great. It is inadmissible during, or immediately before, certain condi- tions of the female system; also when there is congestion of blood in the veins or internal organs : hence it is not suited to chlorosis. In any organic affection of the heart, or aneurism, it is altogether improper. Of the Cold Showee-Bath and Douche we shall only observe here that their effects are more speedy, and extend more to the internal organs ; consequently they are only to be used for a very short time, whenever recourse is had to them. A glow of the surface is sooner felt after the shower than the common bath ; and as soon as this is perceived the person should withdraw himself from the stream. If the douche falls upon the head it produces almost instantaneous and most powerful effects. If its use be pro- longed, it quickly lowers, then destroys, the sensibility, induces faintings, and places the patient in the most imminent danger. Medical superintendence is therefore required thi'ough every stage of its employment. When the body is surrounded by media of aBAT [ 79 ] BAT temperature in some cases lower, and in some higher than its own, it receives caloric, instead of parting with it. The difference of density and humidity is the cause of its receiving it from some media whicli are of a lower tempe- rature than its own, as well as from most which are higher. This depends upon the capacity for caloric, and the conducting power of the surrounding medium. Thus, dry air at 70" Fahr. will impart heat to the body, while water at 92° will abstract it, though water at 96° may impart heat. The tepid bath, therefore, being so close upon the limit of abstracting or im- parting heat, cannot exercise a very powerful effect upon the function of the development of animal heat; neither does it much affect the circulation, which it rather retards than quickens; but its influence is mostly confined to the skin, which it cleanses, softens, and renders more fit to execute its duties. The cases in which the tepid bath is to be preferred to that of a different temperature, are those of a febrile character, joined to an irritability of the skin, which is generally dry and harsh; some cutaneous diseases, where, by friction, the scales are removed and a new surface presented ; and, lastly, as prepara- tory to the cold bath in delicate persons, or for those whose peculiarities of system render them unable to bear a warm bath of a high temperature. It is of much use in the form of tepid sponging of the surface in the advanced stage of fevers, and in convalescence from acute diseases. In this case vinegar is often added to the water with increased good effect. The primary effect of the application to the surface of the body of water of a temperature varying from 93° to 98°, is, in consequence of the communication of warmth, the same as that of dry heat, viz., a stimulating, enlivening, and expanding effect. Hence there is a quickening of the circulation and respiration, as well as the direction of a greater quantity of fluid to the surface, manifested by the swelling and redness of the part. There results, also, a freer and more lively action of the muscular system, and increased sensibility and activity of the nervous system. Diminished exhalation from the skin takes place, while a greatly increased absorption occurs. The exhalation from the lungs, however, j is increased. An increased quantity of heat is ! thus introduced into the system, felt first in the I superficial, but afterwards in the most internal j parts of the body. The secondary or ultimate effect is somewhat ij different. The increased action of the arteries ' gradually subsides, the pulse becomes fuller and I slower, and the greatest quantity of the blood lodges in the veins, particularly in the great venous centres, such as the vena porta and the liver, which it stimulates to increased secretion of bile. Corresponding changes occur in all the other organs ; and if the application of the warmth be continued for a longer time, the in- creased energy and elasticity of the muscles disappear, and a sense of fatigue, with atony, and a tendency to sleep succeeds. The final result of the action and reaction is an augmented secretion from the skin, and a corresponding diminution of urine, and of the secretion from the mucous surfaces. The Warm Bath may be employed to effect two opposite ends, to stimulate, or calm and soothe. It accomplishes the first when its temperature is high (98°), and its use is confined to five or ten minutes; the second when it is about 93°, and continued for three-quarters of an hour or an hour. Employed in this last way, Marcard found that it always diminished the velocity of the circulation, and that the longer the bath was continued the slower the pulse became; also, that the more the pulse deviated from a state of health, the more it is diminished by the warm bath. The bath may even be prolonged till it induce fainting and other con- sequences of a depressed circulation. Short of actual fainting it may be beneficially employed to produce great relaxation of the muscular system, so as to enable dislocations or hernias to be more easily reduced. The state of re- laxation bordering upon fainting is veiy favour- able to the process of absorption. It may, therefore, be advantageously employed in dropsy arising from weakness of the absorbents. As the warm bath has generally the effect of equalising the circulation and relieving internal congestion, it is much resortod to as a remedy in spasmodic and convulsive diseases; but here the utmost caution and discrimination are neces- sary. If the spasmodic actions result from an inflammatoiy state of any of the nervous centres, more harm than good will be done by a bath. The inflammatory condition must first be re- moved or greatly lessened by bleeding, purgatives, and other appropriate means, before the bath can be safely used. These cautions do not so strictly apply to the convulsive excitement which often precedes the eruption of small-pox, or even measles, which is often greatly relieved by the warm bath, which may also be repeated during the early stages of the eruption. (See Marcard, " Uber die Bnder," Hanover, 1793, or Duncan's " Med. Comm.," 2nd Decade, part x., p. 153.) The convulsions of infants during teething are almost invariably attempted to be removed by the warm bath, but in many in- stances more harm than good is done. The condition of the brain must be carefully inquired into by the medical attendant, and the state of the gums investigated before this measure should be had recourse to. If there be congestion of[ 80 ] BAT BAT blood in the braiu, this must be removed before any good can result from a bath, and after its removal the convulsive actions will generally subside. The same good effect will follow free scarification of the gums, if a tooth be preparing to protrude. [See Anti-spasmgdics.) Even when the bath is properly applied, the good which might be derived from it is often frus- trated by inattention or ignorance. The bath is prepared at random, and the temperature is never sufficiently regarded. If above 96° it cannot fail to be injurious. During the existence of all active inflamma- tion, at whatever age, the warm bath may be pronounced an unfit measure; and even after the acuteness may have been reduced by active antiphlogistic means, the warm bath is a doubt- ful remedy, if we except a very few cases. Of these inflammation of the peritoneum is the best marked exception ; but even here the bath is a very secondary means towards lowering the action of the system, though it may ^assist the flow of blood from leech bites, and may be con- tinued till a tendency to faint shows itself. In acute rheumatism, after venesection, the ■warm bath may, perhaps, be employed, if we can insure its being followed by copious perspiration. ¥oT this purpose the patient should have the bath close to his bed, remain in it for half or three-quarters of an hour, be well rubbed with warm flannel cloths, replaced in bed between warm blankets, take diaphoretic medicines, and drink bland, warm fluids, such as gruel or weak tea, and maintain the perspiration for twenty- four or forty-eight hours. In a disposition to gout or rheumatism the warm bath is more proper than when a paroxysm of these diseases occurs. In such cases the natural warm baths are preferable : those of the Queen's Bath, or Cross Bath at Bath, the temperature of which is from 94° to 96°, are well calculated for such cases. In few chronic inflammatory diseases are warm baths allowable, if we except some of those of the digestive organs, especially sub-acute in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. Indigestion is often the most common symptom accompanying this state, and it is almost always benefited by a course of warm or tepid bathing. The other states to which warm bathing is imsuited are great general torpor, but especially of the skin; also when there is a tendency to profuse secretion from the skin ; when there is great plethora or fulness of the vascular system, especially of the veins ; in tendency to active haemorrhage; in aneurism, or any disease of the heart; also in cases of a tendency to apoplexy : lastly, in extreme atony, or excessive irritability of the nervous system. In the very extreme cases of derangement of the nervous system the warm bath is unfit; in more moderate derange- ments of it, a more applicable or useful remedy cannot be found. In cases of nervous exhaus- tion from intense literary employment, or official or parliamentary duties, the warm bath is of great service, more particularly when, in addition to the warm bath, the cold douche is employed, directed upon the head for a few seconds, wliile the patient is in the bath. In the milder cases of mania it has been found of great use. In cases of contractions of the joints from warm rheumatic or gouty inflammation, the bath, or, what is better, the local vapour-bath, is of service in restoring the flexibility of the limb. It may be briefly stated that the warm bath is much more serviceable when there is a tendency to disease, constitutional or accidental, or in convalescence, than in any other circum- stances. It is therefore rather to be considered as a preventive than remedial measure. But its value in this point of view is very great; and it is to be regretted that it is not sufficiently appreciated and used. It is exceedingly bene- ficial as a means of allaying the irritation of the vascular system, which occurs in young persons disposed to consumption, when the disease is beginning slowly to impair the in- tegrity and healthfulness of the lungs or other important organs. To prevent the developm.ent of the morbid deposit in the lungs is of infinite importance, and this will be best accomplished by keeping up a more vigorous action of the skin. The bath must be persevered in for a length of time. Proper bathing-rooms should exist in every well-constructed house; but as this is rarely the case in this country, a good substitute may be obtained by using some of the recently-invented bathing-machines, which combine facilities for using the diff'erent kinds of bath in the same apparatus. The best which we have seen is that made by Read, of the Regent Circus,London, which has an apparatus for apply- ing the douche while in the warm bath, and may be used as a cold, a shower, a warm, a douche, or a vapour-bath ; it is therefore called the uni- versal bath. Baths should be attached to all large manufactories as a refreshment for the workmen, to insure cleanliness, and as a means of warding ofi' many diseases. In lead-works, painters' and plumbers' establishments, they would protect the men from painters' cholic ; and in other establishments they would preserve the workmen from many cutaneous diseases. " A multitude of chronic inflammations of the skin are produced by uncleauliness, or other agents, which directly irritate the skin; and it is to the want of cleanliness in the inferior classes that Willan attributes the frequency of cutaneous diseases in London. In France,[ 81 ] BAT BAT advantages are placed within the reach of the poor to which the rich alone aspire in other countries. The number of gratuitous baths which are given at the hospitals of St. Louis and La Charite is truly prodigious; in 1822 it amounted to 127,752 for the out-patients only of the hospital of St. Louis." (Raver " On Diseases of the Skin.") Why some portion of the funds of hospitals and dispensaries in London, and other large towns, should not be applied in a similar way, we can see no good objection. There is as much philanthropy and benevolence in preventing disease as in curing it. A partial warm bath, such as the foot halh, is of much service in warding off many com- plaints. After getting the feet wet, plunging them into warm water will often prevent any ill consequences; and even when the first chill and slight shiverings which usher in colds, fevers, and other inflammatory complaints, have been felt, the disease may be cut short by the use of a foot bath, continued till free perspira- tion occurs. In inflammatory diseases, where tbe head and throat are much affected, the employment of a foot bath, at a later period, often gives great relief by causing a revulsion of the blood from the upper to the lower part of the body. Water of a temperature from 99° to the highest which can be endured is termed the hot hath. When a person in health enters such a bath, it greatly excites the nervous system, and, through that, the heart and arteries ; causes heat and constriction of the skin, with disturb- ance of the internal organs generally, but especially those of secretion. This state of uneasiness is lessened by the breaking out of perspiration, which is succeeded by great languor, torpor, and disposition to sleep. In such a bath little absorption takes place through the skin, and the body is found to have lost weight. The hot bath is a powerful stimulant, and can never be used by persons in a state of health. The same cautions which were stated under the head of the Warm Bath apply to it in a greater degree. The few cases to which it is suited ai'e chronic affections of the nervous system, such as paralysis, when all vascular fulness of the brain or spinal chord has been removed. The waters of the King's Bath, at Bath, and some of the hot baths on the Continent, are very bene- ficially employed in such cases ; but careful discrimination must be made to suit the tempera- ture to tbe degree of sensibility remaining in the paralysed part. Where the power of motion is lost, the sensation is sometimes increased. Here the hot bath would be very hurtful. On the other hand the sensation may be lost, while the power of motion remains. Here equal care must be observed not to use too high a tempera- ture. Erythema, erysipelas, mortification, ot death, may follow the use of too high a tempera ture, or a stay too prolonged even in a proper temperature. Sudden retrocession or repulsion of some cutaneous or eruptive diseases is relieved by the use of a hot bath for a few minutes, the eruption often coming out favourably after it. Some chronic cutaneous diseases, in which great thickening or torpor of the skin exists, are benefited by the hot bath. Vapour Baths are either natural or artificial. Several natural vapour-baths exist in the Nea- politan States, in Switzerland (Pfefl'ers in the country of the Grisons), and in Ischia. The artificial vapour-baths are much in use in the East and in Russia, where they are public, or intended for several persons to use at tbe same time ; and occasionally in Britain, where they are always solitary or for a single individual. The Russian baths are described in Lyall's " Character of the Russians,"p. 112—115. The bathing-room contains tiers of benches, like an amphitheatre, the seats nearest the bottom being the coolest, those higher up hotter. The temperature varies from 112° to 224°. Persons commencing the use of such baths occupy the lower seats, and ascend as they become accus- tomed to them. While exposed to the vapour the body is washed or rubbed with soap or bran, and beaten with fresh birch twigs. The head is surrounded with a cold cloth, or cold water is dashed over the head. When the person does not wish to breathe the heated vapour, a sponge which has been dipped in cold water is held to the mouth and nose. On first employing the vapour-bath the person usually remains about fifteen minutes, but afterwards three-quarters of an hour, and at Pfefl'ers, the temperature of which is only 100°, sometimes four, eight, ten or sixteen hours. After coming out c f the bath the bather goes into a room heated wi;h dry air, where he is rubbed, puts on a flannel dress, and then reposes upon a couch for some time, where he may take warm drinks to promote the perspiration. " As soon," says Dr. E. D. Clarke, " as the inhabitants of these northern nations have en- dured the high tempei'ature of their vapour- baths, which is so great that Englishmen would not conceive it possible to exist an instant in them, they stand naked, covered with profuse perspiration, cooling themselves in the open air. In summer they plunge into cold water, and in winter they roll about in the snow, without sustaining injury or even catching cold. When the Russians leave a bath of this kind, they moreover drink copious draughts of mead, as cold as it can be- procured." (" Travels in Russia," part i., p. 143.) The absence of all risk in[ 82 ] BAT BAT exposing the pei'son to sucli extremes of tempe- rature is explained by the experiments of Dr. Edwards, who found that " after an exposure to cold, sufficient to diminish the power of pro- ducing heat, continuance in a high temperature tends to the recovery of this power; for, in exposing animals to successive applications of cold, their temperature will fall the more slowly the longer they shall have been subjected to the influence of warmth. It follows, therefore, that the effect of the application of a certain degree of heat is continued after the cessation of the cause. Hence, we see that those who are liable to frequent exposure to severe cold are rendered more capable of supporting it, by subjecting themselves in the intervals to a high temperature —a practice adopted by northern nations, and justified by facts." (Edwards " On the Influ- ence of Physical Agents on Life," p. 125.) The vapour-bath is distinguished from all other means of introducing more heat into the body chiefly by the circumstance that, as a portion of the vapour is converted into water by coming in contact with the surface of the body, it communicates a quantity of sensible caloric to it. It is without doubt the most powerful means of supplying a great heat to the greatest portion of the surface of the body, internal as well as external; for when breathed, the extensive surface forming the interior of the lungs is influenced by it in the same way as the skin. On the skin it exerts a peculiar influence. It does not cause that constriction of the skin which follows the application of dry air. nor does it exert that pressure upon the surface, which, in the case of warm water, retards the breaking out of the perspiration. On the contrary, moisture of the skin, followed by profuse perspiration, occurs immediately upon entering the vapour-bath. In Russia, where such baths are used on a large scale, their employment is not found to be productive of weakness. The subsequent ex- posure to cold restores the tone of the skin which had been lost, and the process leaves the person with a general sense of good health, strength, and power, both of the internal organs and of the skin. " These practices," says Dr. Clarke, " seem to delight them, and to add strength to their constitution." The vapour-bath, by attracting the blood more speedily to the surface, and by being followed by more profuse perspiration, is more powerful than the warm-water bath. It is employed as a remedy in gout and rheumatism, and in the numerous consequences of these when they have assumed the chronic form. Many cases of rheumatic and gouty contraction of the joints have been removed by persevering in the use of vapour-baths, as employed by the continental nations. In scrofulous dii^eases, especially when they affect the skin and the glands, benefit is derived from the vapour-bath, vailess there be a manifest tendency to active inflammation, and great irritability of the nervous system. In some chronic affections of the nei-vous system, especially when connected with the repulsion or imperfect development of cutaneous diseases, the vapour-bath is of great use, and also in some affections of the respiratory organs, such as dry catarrh, asthma, spasms of the muscles of respiration, if these are not com- plicated with inflammation or organic disease of the lungs or heart. The use of the vapour-bath would be found to ward off many acute diseases resulting from exposure to cold, if had recourse to immediately after exposm-e to the exciting cause; as after travelling, or falling into the water in winter. The local application of warm vapour is very serviceable in many recent diseases. Catarrhs, sore throats of an inflammatory kind, inflam- mations of the eyes and ears, are greatly alleviated by such means. But when the lungs are inflamed, though Mudge's or other inhaler is much recommended, yet the effort required to draw in the vapour is injurious. The head, from which a flannel cloth may faU down in such a way as to hinder the vapour from escaping, should be held over a basonful of warm water, and the vapoui" inhaled in the ordinary mode of respiration. The vapour-bath is very improper for plethoric persons, those predisposed to con- gestion or to apoplexy, and also for individuals in a state of great debility. The employment of heated air, as an appli- cation to the body, causes the primary action of heat to manifest itself more than the secondary. The hot-air bath is, therefore, powerfully stimu- lant to the skin and nervous system, and is of great service in all cases where the pro- duction of animal heat is less than natural, as in the cold stage of fevers, and exhaustion of the nervous power. It has been employed beneficially in congestive fever, and after great and continual mental exertion. It proved less useful in the Asiatic cholera than was anticipated. A convenient apparatus for applying it was invented by the late Dr. Gower, called a suda- torium, and several other forms have been in- troduced by others. Medicated Baths rarely possess greater power than that possessed by the water alone; but there are a few exceptions. The admixture of common salt makes the water more stimulating and tonic. Sulphurous Vapoub Baths fall under the head of Medicated Baths, and a few remarks may be here made respecting them. Nightmen, and other individuals who live much in an atmo-[ 83 ] BAT BAY sphere charged with sulphurous exhalations, are rarely affected with chronic diseases of the skin, while other trades seem predisposed to their development, such as the baker's itch and grocer's itch. It is chiefly for the cure of cuta- neous diseases that the sulphurous vapour-baths are employed. In many of these they are very useful, especially those belonging to the genus Scabies and the genus Impetigo of Bateman. A caution is requisite for their safe employment, that the vapour should not be applied to more than a fourth part of the body at one time, lest the disease should be suddenly cured, and the internal organs suffer by the repulsion. The person who uses the sulphurous vapour-bath must be careful not to breathe any of the vapour. This kind of bath has been used in rheumatic affections, some diseases of the , stomach, and in chronic paralysis. It may sometimes be a useful addition to internal treat- ment, but alone can be of little avail, till the state of the internal organs be improved, espe- cially the liver, the action of which is almost always faulty in gout and rheumatism.. The Nitro-muriatic Bath of Scott is of use in chronic inflammation of the liver, such as occurs in warm climates. The iron baths in Nassau and the Hartz are more tonic than the simple cold bath ; but none of the iron can be absorbed at the low temperatiure of these baths ; it is only, therefore, by their direct action upon the skin, and the sympathies of this with the internal organs, that they are more beneficial. We have no knowledge of the effects of the minemlised mud baths, called by the Italians lutatura. (See Gairdner " On Mineral Springs," p. 404.)—(The Penny Cyclopcsdia.) BATHING SPIRITS (Freeman's). This patent medicine is made of 1 oz. of soft-soap, 4 scruples of camphor, 3 grains of carbonate of potash, and 1 pint of proof spirit, coloured with a table-spoonful of Daffy's elixir. BATHING SPIRITS (Jackson's) is made of soft-soap, 2 ozs.; camphor, 2 scruples; oils of rosemary and thyme, of each 45 drops ; spirit of wine, 1 pint. These two compounds are used for rubbing over any part afflicted with pain. See Anodyne Liniment. BATTER PUDDING (1). Take 6 spoons- ful of flour; put them into a stewpan with about 1 tea-spoonful of salt, and half a nutmeg, grated; mix this up with about H pint of new milk; beat up 6 eggs in a basin, and stir them well in the batter; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it tight with a cloth, and boil it two hours and a half. Sei've with wine sauce. This pudding may also be baked, for which three- j quarters of an hour are sufficient. Currants or i stoned raisins may be added. BATTER PUDDING (2). Take 6 ozs. of fine flour, a little salt, and 3 eggs ; beat well with a little milk, added by degrees till the batter becomes smooth; make it the thickness of cream; put it into a buttei'ed pie-dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour; or into a buttered and floured basin, tied over tight with a cloth. Boil one hour and a half or two hours. BATTER PUDDING (Baked or Boiled). Break 3 eggs in a basin with as much salt as will lay on a sixpence ; beat them well together, and then add 4 ozs. of flour; beat it into a smooth batter, and by degrees add i pint of milk. Have your saucepan ready boiling, and butter an earthen mould well; put the pudding in, tie it tightly over with a pudding-cloth, and boil it one hour and a quarter; or put it in a dish that you have well buttered, and bake it three-quarters of an hour. Currants, washed and picked clean, or stoned raisins, are good in this pudding, and it is then called a black cap; or add loaf sugar and a little nutmeg and ginger without the fruit. It is very good that way. Serve it with wine sauce. BATTER PUDDING (withoutEggs). Mix 6 spoonsful of flour with a small portion of a quart of milk; and when smooth, add the re- mainder of the milk, 1 tea-spoonful of salt, 2 tea-spoonsful of grated ginger, and 2 tea- spoonsful of tincture of saffron. Stir all toge- ther well, and boil one hour. Fruit may be added or not. BAUME DE MECCA. See Balm of GiLEAD. BAY LEAVES are used for flavouring cus- tards, adding to the fragrance of pot-pourri, &c. This kernel-like flavour and scent arise from the prussic acid they contain, but in such minute quantity as to be perfectly harmless when mixed with the other ingredients. Both the leaves and the berries of the bay contain much oil, which is aromatic and stimulating, and the old herbalists administered inwardly both the leaves and berries to relieve flatulency, and formed of them ointments and fomentations for outward application. The oil is known in commerce as laurel oil. BAY SALT is common salt in very large crystals and somewhat dirty, owing to its being procured by the slow evaporation of sea-water in shallow ponds, by its exposure to the sun and wind. It used to be considered as stronger, that is, more powerfully preservative of meat, than the finer grained salt. This, however, is erroneous, for the large-grained salt made in Cheshire and at Maldon, in Essex, is equally efficacious in curing meat; and if it has any advantage in this respect over the small-grained salt, it arises from its dissolving more gradually upon the meat over which it is rubbed.BEA BEA [ 84 ] BEADS : To Clean. Mix equal weights of rotten-stone and soft-soap into a thin paste with spirit of turpentine. Rub it over the beads by means of a rag, and wipe it off again with a piece of Hnen. BEAD - WORK. Miss Lambert, in her " Handbook of Needlework," obseiwes that the Germans excel in all kinds of bead-work, some of which are extremely beautiful. They are principally applicable to small articles, such as folios, presse-papiers, card and cigar cases. Purses and bags are made of beads, but their weight renders them sometimes objectionable. The very few colours in which glass beads can be obtained limits this description of work to arabesque, gem, and scroll patterns, or for working flowers in neutral tints; other designs, such as flowers and figures, are sometimes exe- cuted, but from the want of the proper shades, they are extremely defective. The opaque turquoise beads—among the most beautiful of those manufactured—are generally used for the grounds; an opal bead is extremely pretty in- termixed with others. Besides glass beads, gilt and silver beads, both plain and cut, and steel beads, are fre- quently used for this kind of work; the latter, for the sake of variety, being sometimes manu- factured of a dark purple tint. The designs for bead-work are generally taken from Berlin patterns; the beads are attached to a canvass by a waxed sewing silk, but a fine twisted cotton thread is used for this purpose in Germany. Half cross-stitch, or across two threads each way of the canvass on the slant, is the usual method of working them. Beads of all kinds are commonly introduced by the Germans into their patterns, the princi- pal portions of which are worked with wool or silk, whether on cotton or silk canvass, and not unfrequently with a pleasing effect. The use of beads, however, in the higher departments of the art, when we wish to imitate painting, is totally inadmissible—at least if we have any regard for the laws of good taste. In historical subjects, even the admixture of gold and silver threads is not in good keeping; but to enrich parts of the drapeiy and other portions of the design with heavy masses of beads, or of raised work, as is frequently done in Germany, is so gross an infringement of all the properties of art that it cannot be .too scrupulously avoided. Some of the most beautiful bead-work is done in tricot, with a fine cotton or silk; but it is a more laborious and expensive method of pro- ducing the same effect, although for some few purposes it is infinitely superior. Purses made- with beads, in imitation of netting, are also very pretty, but perhaps more curious than useful. With respect to beads, it may not here be improper to observe, that a great difference exists in the quality of all sorts of steel and gilt beads, causing a variation sometimes of as much as three or four hundred per cent, in their value. To those who cannot at first perceive the difference, time will soon show the inferiority in the wear of the one in comparison with the other. Bead-work may be done on canvass of several sizes, according to the size of the beads; the canvass usually employed measures about tliirty- eight threads to the inch. It is, perhaps, not generally known that all the glass beads used for needle-work are manu- factured at Murano, near Venice. Tubes of coloured glass are drawn out to great lengths and fineness, in the same manner as those of more moderate lengths are made in this country for thermometers; these are cut into very small pieces of nearly uniform lengths, on the upright edge of a fixed chisel. These elementary cylin- ders are then put into a mixture of fine sand and wood-ashes, where they are stirred about until their cavities get filled. This mixture is then put into an iron pan, suspended over a moderate fire, when by being continually stirred they assume a smooth, rounded form. They are then removed from the fire, cleared out in the bore, and strung in bunches, constituting the beads as we meet them in commerce. Great quantities of these beads, packed in casks, are exported to all parts of the world. BEAN OMELET. Blanch your beans, and fry them in sweet butter with a little parsley; pour out the butter and pour in some cream. Let it simmer, shaking your pan; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; thicken with 3 or 4 yolks of eggs; have ready 1 pint of cream, thickened with the yolks of 4 eggs; season with a little salt, pour it in your dish, lay j'our beans on the omelet, and serve it up hot. BEAN PUDDING. Boil and blanch some old beans, then beat them in a mortar with a little pepper, salt, cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach-juice will give a fine colour, but may be done without. Boil it an hour in a basin, and pour parsley and butter over it. Serve it with bacon. BEAN TANSY. Take 2 quarts of beans, blanch, and beat them very fine in a mortar; season with pepper, salt, and mace ; then put in the yolks of 6 eggs, J lb. of butter, 1 pint of cream, ^ pint of white wine, and sweeten to your palate. Soak 4 Naples biscuits in ^ pint of milk, and mix them with the other ingredi- ents ; add ^ pint of the juice of spinach, with 2 or 3 sprigs of tansy beat in it. Butter a pan, and bake it; then turn it on a dish and stick about it citron and orange-peel, candied and cut small. Garnish with Seville orange.BEA [ 85 ] BED BEANS : To Boil (1). Boil tliem in water, with plenty of salt in it, till tender. Chop and boil parsley, put it into melted butter, and serve it as sauce. BEANS: To Boil (2). Boil in salt and water with a bunch of savory; drain, and then put them into a stewpan with 5 spoonsful of sauce tournee reduced, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a little salt. Add a piece of fresh butter, and stir it constantly' till it becomes of a proper thickness. BEARS' GREASE has been eulogised as promoting the growth of the human hair, and some has been imported from Russia for the purpose; but it arrives in a rancid state. The soft fat of the calf is said nearest to resemble it; but the whole of the fatty compound sold in this country as bears' grease is formed as follows :—Melt 3 ozs. of hogs' lard and ^ oz. of spermaceti in ^ pint of oil of sweet almonds. Strain through muslin. Add, when nearly cold, a few drops of essence of bergamot, or of any other perfume preferred. Stir until quite cold, and then put into pomatum pots, and keep closely covered. BECHAMEL. Bechamel is a white sauce, resembling batter, and derives its name from a French nobleman who either invented or patronised it. The composition is as follows : —Cut in square pieces, each half an inch thick, 2 lbs. of lean veal and i lb. of lean ham ; melt in a stewpan 2 ozs. of butter, and let the whole simmer till it is about to catch at the bottom; then add 3 table-spoonsful of flour, and, when thoroughly mixed, put in 3 pints of broth or water, pouring in a little at a time, that the thickening may be smooth, and stir it till it boils; then put the pan on the corner of the stove, or by the side of the fire, to boil gently two hours. Season it with 4 cloves, 1 onion, 12 peppercorns, 1 blade of mace, a few mush- rooms, and a bundle made of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. Reduce to a quart, skim off the fat, and strain the liquor through a tammy. This is the bechamel; and to make a sauce of it, add to 1 quart 1 pint of cream, and stir it till it is reduced to a good consistence ; then put in a few mushrooms to give it a flavour, and strain it as before. BECHAMEL CAKE. Boil 1 pint of cream with a few pounded sweet almonds, and a little coriander seed; then strain it. Use to it about 1 lb. of flour, 3 eggs, and about as much butter as will make it into a paste. Finish like other ; paste, and make it into cakes of any shape or "i size ycu please. BECHAMEL SAUCE. To equal parts of ■j broth and milk add an onion and a blade of ;; mace; put them into a stewpan, and let them boil ten minutes. In the meantime, ruL on a plate 1 oz. of flour and butter, put it to the liquor and stir it well till it boils up; then place it by the fire, stirring it every now and then till it becomes smooth. Next strain it through a sieve into a basin; after which return it into a pan ; season it with salt and the juice of a small lemon; beat up the yolks of 9 eggs with about 3 table-spoonsful of milk; strain this into the' sauce, stir it well again and keep it over the fire, but do not let it boil, lest it curdle. This is a good sauce for boiled fowls, especially if their colour is objectionable. BECHE DE MER is a glutinous, mollus- cous sea animal, collected on the west coast of Holland, dried, and used for making a rich soup. BED-COVERING. It is advisable, on ac- count of neatness, and, consequently, of economy, to provide bed-covers, to be laid over the beds when the rooms are being swept. The quantity of dust which settles on other articles of furni- ture will convince those who observe it that a due proportion will fall on the bed-cover; and, in the absence of this neat appendage to a housemaid's paraphernalia, on the counterpane or quilt. A half-tidy, and much more trouble- some method is sometimes adopted, that of turning the counteq)ane wrong side outwards, on the occasion of sweeping; but this is ob- jectionable, if only in consequence of the dust that must be unnecessarily communicated to the blanket. A bed-cover may be made of any light, slight material—our own is of mattress- ticking, which is cheap and preferable to any other article for the purpose. The spring is the season for taking down and putting up again those white or light-coloured bed and window-furnitures that may require to be washed. Every article should be removed from the bedsteads, which ought to be carefully attended to, thoroughly dusted, the sacking-cords braced, the sackings themselves well brushed, mattresses the same, and bedstead-screws well tightened by means of a tool styled a bed-ivinch, •which is a useful article in a family. When the clean furniture is replaced on a bedstead some sheets of large paper should be pasted together, and laid on the top (the tester) of the bed. Of whatever material the furniture may be com- posed, this will be found a useful and cleanly little arrangement, as it will not only receive all the dust that would otherwise settle on the fur- niture, but it may be carefully lifted off at any time, and the accumulated dust can be easily removed. BEDDING. A mattress filled with horse- hair is preferable to a feather bed, which heats and relaxes the body, and disposes it to pul- iBED [ 86 ] BED monary and hectic complaints. The bolster should be stuffed with horsehair, and covered with a small pillow filled with feathers. The bedding might consist either of sheets with blankets and a counterpane, or a single cover thinly quilted with cotton wool. The latter might be easily washed, and will last for several years. In very cold seasons a counterpane, quilted with a few pounds of soft feathers, might be substituted for the former; but it should not be used in summer. The use of feather beds, excepting in cold climates and seasons, is highly injurious. It is certainly hurtful in many diseases, and some are actually occasioned by that pernicious prac- tice. Feather beds imbibe the perspired vapours thrown out of the body; and unless they are frequently and carefully shaken, aired in the sun, and provided with a new covering, the noxious vapours thrown out of the body may be resorbed, to the great injury of the health. Indeed, such beds should be exposed every morning to the open air before they are made up. They are particularly calculated for camp- beds, not being so apt to become damp. The observations of Locke upon this subject are extremely judicious. He remarks that the bed should be hard for strengthening the parts : whereas being buried every night in feathers, melts and dissolves the body, is often the cause of weakness, and the forerunner of an early grave. Warmth about the kidneys, the neces- sary consequence of sleeping on down beds, is very apt to induce the stone, and to occasion other disorders. But though mattresses made of hair or straw ought to be preferred in hot countries, and in warm seasons of the year, yet in northern cli- mates, where people are much accustomed to use feather beds in winter, bad consequences have arisen by exchanging them for mattresses during the cold season of the year; and it has been found very apt to call forth gouty or rheumatic affections in those who have a tendency to such complaints. With regard to the bolster, it should be well stuffed and elastic. Some recommend that it should be filled with feathers in winter, and with horsehair in summer ; but others contend that it should be always stuffed with horsehair, as it is proper to keep the head cool. The pillow should be so disposed as to suit the usual manner you have adopted of placing your head, so as to be perfectly easy. Several mattresses or feather beds are laid one above the other, in order to raise the couch to the height that it is required; but the modern fashion, by which it is necessary to ascend the bed by steps, is absurd and dangerous, and it must be attended with some hazard, ascending or descending, more especially for the aged or invalids. It is highly improper for young people to sleep in beds overloaded with clothes. They heat the blood more than is consistent with health, and produce an immoderate and ener- vating perspiration, which still more weakens the organs already relaxed by sleep. But to old people warm bed-clothes are highly proper and necessary, in order to preserve or increase their heat. From neglecting to attend to that circumstance in very cold countries, the aged have often been found dead in their beds in thfe morning after a cold night. Mauklin, the player, when he got old, always slept in blankets for the sake of warmth ; and the late Dr. Chovet, of Philadelphia, who lived to be eighty-five, slept in a baize nightgown, under eight blankets and a coverlid, in a stove-room, many years before he died. In regard to bed-clothes, the most comfortable discovery hitherto made was the invention of sheets, by means of which, dress may be thrown off with comfort, and the body almost in a state of nature given up to repose ; whilst by woollen coverings, or blankets, in number or thickness adequate to the warmth required, the body is kept in a proper and equal temperature. Nothing, however, has proved more injiuious to health than damp linen. If there is any fear of dampness, the sheets should be removed, and repose taken between the blankets. Cotton sheets are much pleasanter in winter than linen sheets. The use of curtains has been objected to ; but they are in some degree necessary to exclude the light, which, at least in the summer season, might discompose the slumbers at too early a period; and in winter they are useful to exclude the cold. The old custom of warming the bed deserves to be particularly reprobated, as it has a direct tendency to produce weakness and debility. It is still more dangerous when done with a char- coal fire, the poisonous vapours of which must be highly pernicious. With a view to health, it is desirable that beds, instead of being made up as soon as people rise out of them, should be turned down and exposed to the fresh air from open windows for some time. The bed should never be placed near a wall, more especially if there is any risk of its being damp, or in any country where lightning is frequent; for a flash of lightning, accidentally entering through the window, will take its direction along the walls, without touching any- thing that is not close to them. Beds shut up in close alcoves are extremely objectionable. The gi-eatest care ought to be taken to beatWALN UT TREE BEDSTEADBED [ 87 ] BED and thoroughly to air any bed in which sick persons have lain; and if any have died of contagious disorders, the beds in which they have lain ought to be buried or burnt, or washed with potash and boiling water. BEDROOM. A bed-chamber ought never to be on a ground-floor, or have a northern I aspect. Although, on account of a cooler air, i many prefer this situation in summer, yet it ; cannot fail to be unwholesome, as it is most I exposed to the influence of a damp atmosphere I in the morning and during the night. Hence ! we are of opinion that an eastern front is more ; conducive to health; because it receives the i first rays of the sun, that beneficent luminary, '. who, more regularly than a timepiece, awakens ■ the man of a sound body and mind, while he ; animates, invigorates, and incites him to rise, I after having refreshed himself by repose. Be- ! sides, a moderate degree of heat, thus natu- : rally imparted, may be more easily endured, and modified, if necessary, by various means, than a moist and pernicious atmosphere, which even the dry air of summer cannot easily correct. For similar reasons, small closets and con- cealed beds are extremely injurious, especially to young people and invalids. When persons are from necessity obliged to sleep in them, it will be advisable every morning, immediately after rising, to displace all the bed-clothes; and, if the sky be serene, to open the door and windows, in order to purify the stagnant air of so confined a resting-place ; but we think it, on the whole, a dangerous practice to sleep with open windows, whether at night or in the day- time; though a very small aperture, without admitting a current of air to pass through the room, may occasionally be useful. The bedroom should be in the quietest situ- ation possible—as it were, " the Temple of Silence,"—and, if practicable, not less than six- teen feet square. The height of this apartment, in which we pass almost half of our time, is in modern houses absurdly abridged to increase that of the drawing-room, which is often not occupied once in a month. Bedrooms should be thoroughly ventilated by leaving both the window and the door open every day when the weather is not cold or damp, during which the bed should remain unmade, and the clothes be taken off and spread out for an hour at least before the bed is made again. In very hot weather the temperature becomes considerably cooler every minute after ten o'clock. Between eight o'clock and twelve the thermometer often falls, in sultry weather, from 10° to 20°, and those who can sit up till twelve o'clock will sleep in an atmosphere many degrees cooler than those who go to bed at ten. This is extremely important to nerv- ous invalids, who, however extremely they may suffer from heat, we cannot advise to sleep with the smallest part of the window open during the night. A fire in the bedroom is sometimes indis- pensable, but not as usually made. It is com- monly lighted only just before bedtime, and prevents sleep by the noise it makes and the unaccustomed stimulus of its light. Chimneys frequently smoke when a fire is first lighted, particularly in snowy and frosty weather; and an invalid has to encounter not only the damp and cold of the room, but has his lungs irritated with the sulphureous puffs from the fresh-lighted fire. A fire should be lighted about three or four hours before, and so managed that it may bum entirely out half an hour before you go to bed. Then the air of the room will be comfortably warmed, and certainly more fit to receive an invalid who has been sitting all day in a parlour as hot as an oven, than a damp chamber that is as cold as a well. BEDSTRAW. The Galium vermi, or com- mon lady's bedstraw, is found on banks of dry soil by hedge-sides in most parts of England. The common name bedstraw (which we have from the German) is from the verb to strew or strove, anciently written straw. Thus the multi- tude strawed branches in the way before Christ. Before the invention of feather beds a variety of herbs were used to strew beds with ; and, doubtless, this was one of them. In Johnson's edition of Gerarde it is called our lady's bedstrow. Strawberry is derived fi'om the same origin. The flowers and herb of this plant will cui'dle milk. Dioscorides names it gallon from this property. The same property is attributed to it by Galen. Matthiolus informs us that in Tuscany people use it for this pui'pose, in order that their goat and sheeps' milk cheese may taste sweeter. Gerarde, who was a Cheshire- man, says, that in his county, especially about Namptwich, they use it in their rennet, deem- ing that the best cheese which is made with it; and in some of the Western Isles they curdle milk with a strong decoction of this herb. Boiled in alum water, the flower-stems dye of a good yellow colour. The roots dye a very fine red, not inferior to madder, but they are small. An ingenious gentleman, however, conversant with dyeing, assured Mr. Curtis that the roots produced a brighter colour than madder; and on that account they may be worth trying, espe- cially as the rest of the plant may be successfully used in dyeing yellow. They were cultivated many years since under the direction of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade. The roots were supposed, on an average, to weigh[ 88 ] BED BEE Y oz<?., and the produce, when dry, to be 1200^ cwt. an acre. BEDTICKS should be of strong fabric, for they ought to endure throughout the owner's lifetime. Let the necessary stitching be done on the wrong side of the ticking with double whity-brown thread, well waxed; then lay the tick, whether for a pillow, bolster, or bed, flat on a table, and rub the inside thoroughly with white soap. Some pei'sons use warmed beeswax, but soap is preferable, for it as effectually keeps in the feathers and dust, and facilitates the washing of the tick if needed. BEDTIME. Although it would be difficult, in the present irregular state of society, to lay down rules for the proper time of resorting to that place which suspends and makes us forget our daily troubles and cares; yet, when we consider the subject with regard to its influence as well on the health as the moral character of man, it is deserving of the most serious dis- cussion. Much, indeed, depends on the arrange- ment of the day and the different pursuits of the individual. Those persons who spend the greater part of their time in useful labour, and have sufficient muscular exercise, would better consult their health by retiring to repose at least two or three hours before midnight; which, according to the oldest and most accurate ob- servers, are nearly as refreshing as double that portion in the morning. Those, however, who lead an idle and luxurious life are too much the slaves of fashion, habit, and caprice, to adopt any useful changes which might abridge their amusements or imaginary comforts. On the other hand, the studious, and especially specu- lative persons, cannot comply with what are generally called " regular hours;" because their pursuits are better adapted to the solemn stillness of night, while they indulge in re- flections which require a connected series of thought and reasoning, uninterrupted by the noise of day. Yet, even literati and artists ought to pay due attention to this important circumstance, that the atmosphere of the night is always more vitiated, and, consequently, less fit for respiration than that of a serene day; and as we respire a greater portion of air while awake than in a sleeping state, it follows that' the system must be more injured in the former than in the latter case. Nor would it be -proper to retire to rest immediately after a full meal, or in an agitated state of mind. Hence, two hours after a light supper ought to elapse in order to prepare our- selves for an invigorating repose, and banish all gloomy or depressing ideas and thoughts which require mental exertion. For the same reason we should remove from our sight eveiy object which may irritate the nerves, and never adopt that pernicious practice of reading till we fall asleep—an imprudence of which many young and thoughtless persons are guilty. Instead of such a dangerous expedient, it would be more salutary to walk up and down the room for a few minutes, or to take any other gentle exercise. Lastly, we are of opinion that those indivi- duals who breakfast at nine, dine at two, and drink tea at six; or, instead of this, eat a light supper between seven and eight o'clock, might with the greatest benefit to their health retire to bed at ten, and rise at five or six o'clock in the morning, or earlier, according to the degree of exercise they have taken on the preceding day. BED-WARMING is best performed by a warming-pan made for the purpose of hold- ing boiling water instead of red-hot cinders or charcoal. There is thus no unpleasant, un- wholesome smell left in the bed; there is no danger of scorching the sheets ; and the pan may be placed in the bed and left for two or three hours, so that no servant need sit up for the purpose. BEE, STING OF. A plantain leaf bruised and applied to the place gives immediate relief; so does eau de Luce and spirit of hartshorn. If the stings are numerous add a little laudanum to the application, and give the patient a gentle aperient. A sting near the eye is very painful, but the symptoms are confined to that pai't; but a sting at the back of the ear often affects the whole system, and causes sickness, giddmess, numbness, and tremour. The above applica- tions, with half an ounce of camphor jalap, and quietude, soon remove these symptoms. The same observations apply to the sting of a wasp, or hornet. See Adder. BEECH. We have only to enumerate some of the uses of the produce of this tree. Its leaves have been employed for stuffing mat- tresses, and are very durable. Beech-wood is objectionable as being very liable to be worm- eaten. The mast or nuts of the beech are useful as pigs' food, a,nd when roasted are occasionally sei-ved as part of the dessert. The oil pressed from this mast equals in flavour the best olive oil, and does not become rancid so soon. In Germany it is used in cookery. The cake remaining after the oil has been expressed is excellent food for oxen, pigs, and poultry. It is also convertible into starch. BEECH-WOOD: To Stain like Mahogany. Apply aquafortis over the entire polished sur- face, and when quite dry varnish it with the following:—Dragon's blood, 2 ozs.; aloes, 1 oz.; dissolved in rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart, and strained through fine muslin. Apply this varnish with a brush.BEE BEE [ 89 ] BEEF. The carcase of the bullock consists of two divisions. The first is the fore-quarter, which contains:— 1. The cheek. 2. The neck or sticking-piece, weighed, undressed, 8i lbs.; hone, after dressing, 10 ozs. 3. The clod. 4. The shin, weighed 9 lbs., undressed; hone, afier dressing, 9^ lbs. 5. The shoulder, or leg-of-mutton piece. 6. The chuck, three ribs. 7. The middle rib, four ribs. 8. The fore-rib, Ave ribs, weighed, undressed, 12lbs.; bone, after dressing, 1^ lb. 9. The brisket. The second is the hind-quarter, which con- tains :— 10. The sirloin, weighed, undressed, 13 lbs.; bone, after dressing, IJlb. Jl. The thiu flank. 13. The rump, weighed, undressed, 20lbs.; bone, after dressing, 4 lbs. 13. The aitch, or edge-bone, weighed, undressed, 11 lbs.; bone, after dressing, IJ lb. 14. The buttock, or round, weighed, undressed, 13f lbs.; bone, after dressing, IJlb. 15. The mouse buttock. 10. The veiny piece. 17. The thick flank, weighed, undressed, 11 lbs.; hone, after dressing, 1J lb. 18. The leg. These are the principal parts, besides which there are the head, the tongue, and the palate ; the entrails consisting of the heart, sweetbreads, kidneys, skirts, and tripe; of which last there are three sorts, the double, the roll, and the reed pipe, which all undergo a necessary process before they are offered for sale. In choosing beef, observe that the young ox flesh has a fine, smooth, open grain, the colour of it a pleasant red, the fat rather white than yellow, and the suet still wliiter and particularly firm. Cow beef is of a coarser grain, and the fat, except when the animal has been fed with oil-cake, is whiter than that of the ox; but the colour of the lean is of a paler red. In both the cow and the ox, if the flesh be young and tender it will be elastic, and on being pressed with the finger will spring up instantaneously ; while old meat, on the contrary, retains the impression for some time afterwards. Bull beef is of a deeper hue, a coarser grain, and a firmer texture than either of the former; in- somuch that it is difficult to make any impres- sion at all upon it with the finger, especially if the animal is old, in which case, also, the flesh smells strong and offensive. Ox beef is the largest and best of all; but in small families heifer beef will be found profitable and excellent, if the animal has been properly fed. Old meat may be quickly known by a horny kind of substance running along the ribs, the hard- ness of which will be in proportion to the age. Ox beef is a wholesome and nutritious food, and readily digested by persons in • health. Rumps and aitch-bones are often bruised by the blows given to the cattle by the drovers; there- fore, as those parts are liable to taint in such cases, be careful not to purchase joints where bruises appear. The flesh of cattle that are hilled when full of food soon spoils. They ought, therefore, to be kept fasting twenty-four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, previous to being killed. The first thing to be observed on receiving pieces of beef is to search for fly-blows, which, in the sirloin, are generally found under the loose fat, and, therefore, this part must be wiped well with a dry cloth, then sprinkled with salt, and the same is also to be rubbed on the chine-bone. Take out the pipe that runs along it, and the kernel in the fat at the chump, and likewise the pith, which places are to be rubbed with salt, as well as the outside and both ends. By attending to these rules it will keep good a week. In treating the ribs, rub the chine-bone with salt; cut out a piece of skirt that is commonly left by the butcher, and rub the inside well with salt, as also the outsides, the two ends, and the tops, after which hang the piece up for use. In the rump there is a kernel at the s.mall end which is generally left by the butcher, but must be taken out and the fat cut off, after which the joints should be wiped quite dry with a cloth, and hung up. That part of the brisket which is usually kept for stewing is the thick end, which must be wiped perfectly dry; and the same care is to be taken of the pieces intended for boiling. Observe that there are two kernels in a round of beef, one in the middle called the popes eye, and the other in the thick fat, both of which should be taken out by the butcher, but if he neglects doing so, the cook must do it immediately, otherwise no salt, in whatever quantity, will keep the meat sweet, particularly in summer. There is a kernel, also, in the middle of the fat of the thick flai'.k which must be cut out, as well as one in the aitch- bone where it is divided from the rump. There is, besides, another kernel, which, according to the different methods of cutting up carcases^[ 90 ] BEE BEE is sometimes found in the shoulder and at others iu the neck-jjiece, but which must likewise be taken out. The brisket and the ribs must be jointed for the admission of salt, which should be well filled with it for keeping. Heifer beef is excellent when finely fed, and is most suitable for smaU families. The bone should be taken out of a round of beef before it is salted, and it must be washed, skewered, and bound round firmly before being boiled. Salt beef should be put on with plenty of cold water, and when it boils the scum removed. It is then kept simmering for some hours. A piece weigh- ing 15 lbs. will require three hours and a half to boU. Carrots and turnips for garnishing should be put on to boil with the beef. If in the least tainted, a piece of charcoal may be boiled with them. When beef is to be kept any length of time, it should be carefully wiped every day. In warm weather pyroligneous vinegar is an excellent pre- servative ; it is put all over the meat with a brush. To protect the meat from flies, it may be sprinkled over it with pepper. Tainted meat may be restored by washing it in cold water, afterwards in strong camomile tea, after which it may be sprinkled with salt and used the following day, washing it first in cold water. Koughly pounded charcoal rubbed all over the meat also restores it when tainted. In Scotland meat is frequently kept a fortnight smothered in oatmeal, and carefully wiped every day; and if it should be a little tainted, it is soaked some hours before it is used in oatmeal and water. These directions equally apply to all sorts of meat. The sirloin is the prime joint for roasting. When to be used it should be washed, then dried with a clean cloth, and the fat covered over with a piece of white paper tied on with thread. The spit should be kept at all times exceedingly clean ; it must be wiped dry im- mediately after it is drawn from the meat, and washed and scoui'ed every time it is used. Care should be taken to balance the roast properly upon the spit; but, if not exactly right, it is better to make it equal by fastening on a leaden- headed skewer than to pierce it again. The fire should be prepared by putting plenty of coals at the back. When put down, it should be about ten inches from the fire and gradually drawn nearer. It is first basted with a little butter or fresh drippbig, and then well basted with its own fat all the time it is roasting. Ten minutes before serving, it should be sprinkled with a little salt, then dredged with flour, and basted till it is frothed. When it is drawn from the spit some gravy will run out, to which may be added a little boiling salt and water, poured along the bone; the beef is then garnished with plenty of finely-scraped horseradish. A sirloin, weighing about 15 lbs., should be roasted for three hours and a half. A thinner piece of the same weight requires only thi'ee hours. In cold weather meat requires longer roasting than in warm, and if newly killed than if it has been kept. BEEF : To Bake. Let a buttock of beef, which has been in salt about a week, be well washed, and put into an eaithen pan with a pint of water; cover the pan tight with two or three sheets of foolscap paper; let it bake four or five hours in a moderately-heated oven. BEEF: To Bake (with Potatoes). Boil some potatoes, peel, and pound them in a mortar with one or two small onions; moisten them with milk, and an egg beaten up ; add a little salt and pepper. Season slices of bacon or mutton-chops with salt and pepper, and more onion if the flavour is approved of; rub the bottom of a pudding-dish with butter, and put a layer of mashed potatoes, which should be as thick as the batter, and then a layer of meat, and so on alternately tiU the dish is filled, ending with potatoes. Bake it in an oven for an hour. BEEF, AITCH-BONE OF: To Dress. This fine joint will not take so much boiling as the round; one of 20 lbs. may be done in about three hours and a half, and one of half the size in two hours. It should be put into a large pot, and be well covered with water, taking care that it does not boil too fast. The slower it boils the better it will look, and the more tender it will eat. It must be accompanied by the same vegetables as the boiled rump, but particularly carrots. Gormands esteem the soft fat which lies in the back as marrow ; but the hard fat about the udder is best when cold. The liquor in which the beef is boiled will prove excellent for pea-soup. BEEF, A-LA-BRAISE (1). Bone a rump of beef; lard it very thickly with salt pork, seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice, and season the beef with pepper and salt; put some slices of bacon into the bottom of the pan, with some whole black pepper, a little allspice, 1 or 2 bay leaves, 2 onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; put in the beef, and lay it over some slices of bacon, 2 quarts of weak stock and i pint of white wine; cover it closely, and let it stew between six and seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of part of tlie liquor it has been stewed in, strained, and thickened with a little flour and butter, adding some green onions cut small, and pickled mushrooms. It is poured hot over the beef. BEEF, A-LA-BRAISE (2). After a rump of beef has hung for five or six days, bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to appear upon[ 9i ] BEE BEE tlie surface, with bits of salt pork or ham cut about J inch square, and rolled in the following seasoning, well mixed:—Finely-minced onion, parsley, thyme, a little garlic, pepper, and salt. What is left over of the seasoning add to 1 pint of vinegar, 1 pint of port wine, and 1 tea-cupful of salad oil. Steep the beef iu this for one night; the following day paper it, and roast it in a cradle-spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick, brown gravy. A little lemon-juice and sliced pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish with slices of boiled carrot and sci'aped h 0 rs G IT 9j cl isb. BEEF, A-LA-MODE (1). Take about 11 lbs. of the mouse buttock, or clod of beef, or a bladebone, or the sticking-piece, or the like ■weight of the breast of veal; cut it into pieces of 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. each ; put 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of beef-dripping; mince a couple of large onions, and put them into a large, deep stewpan. As Boon as it is quite hot, flour the meat, put it into a stewpan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon; when it has been on about ten minutes dredge it with flour, and keep doing so till you have stirred in as much as you think will thicken it; then cover it with boiling water (it will take about 1 gallon), adding it by degrees, and stirring it altogether; skim it when it boils, and put in 1 drachm of ground black pepper, 2 drachms of allspice, and 3 bay leaves. Set the pan by the side of the fire, or at a distance above it, and let it stew very slowly for about three hours. When you find the meat sufi&ciently tender, put it into a tureen, and it is ready for table. BEEF, A-LA-MODE (2). Take the bone out of a small round of fine ox beef; cut some fat bacon in long strips ; dip them into common and shallot vinegar, mixed, and roll them in the following seasoning : — Grated nutmeg, black and Jamaica pepper, 1 or 2 cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon-thyme, knotted mar- joram, and savory, shred quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind it firmly with tape, and rub the outside with the seasoning. Put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, 4 large onions, the red part of 3 or 4 carrots, and 2 turnips cut into dice; add a tea-cupful of strong ale and one of vinegar; let it stew for six or eight hours, turning it two or three times. Half an hour before serving, take out the beef and vegetables, skim off the fat, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a little flour and water, mixed smooth; add a tea-cupful of port wine, return all to the pot, and let it boil. BEEF BALLS. Mince very finely a piece of tender beef, fat and lean; mince an onion with some boiled parsley; add grated bread- crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel; mix all together, and moisten it with an egg beaten up; roll it into balls ; flour, and fry them in boiling, fresh dripping. Serve them with fried bread-crumbs, or with thickened brown gravy. BEEF, BARON OF: To Roast. This was a magnificent dish at the tables of our hospitable ancestors on great occasions; and though the noble baron is now but seldom seen, yet the subject requires, by courtesy, some attention in a work like the present. As the joint is too large for a spit, it must be roasted in a sus- pended state before a proportionate fire. Split the tail part in two, as in a saddle of mutton, and turn it nearly round in the form of a ring on each side. The baron will take at least five hours in roasting, well papered, before a good brisk fire, to which it must be laid gradually, for if placed too near at first the outside will be ruined. If it is to be eaten hot, garnish with young carrot-tops laid round the dish, which may be ornamented at pleasure. BEEF, BOUILLI (1). In plain English this is understood to mean boiled beef; but its culinary acceptation in the French kitchen is, fresh beef dressed without boiling, and only very gently simmered by a slow fire. Cooks have seldom any notion that good soup can be made without destroying a great deal of meat; however, by a judicious regulation of the fire, and a vigilant attendance on the soup-kettle, this may be accomplished. You may have a tureen of such soup as will satisfy the most fastidious palate, and the meat make its appear- ance at table at the same time in possession of a full portion of nutritious succulence. This requires nothing more than to stew the meat very slowly (instead of keeping the pot boiling at a gallop, as common cooks too frequently do), and to take it up as soon as it is done. Meat cooked in this manner affords much more nourishment than it does dressed in the com- mon way, is easy of digestion in proportion as it is tender, and is an invigorating, substantial diet, especially valuable to tbe poor, whose laborious employments require support. BEEF, BOUILLI (2). Take a rump of beef, or part of one, bone, and tie it together in a neat form, and put it into a pot with any odd bits of butchers' meat you may happen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or mutton; you may add, also, the bones, fat, and necks of poultry or game, the meat of which has been taken for other dishes; place your pot on a moderate fire, not quite full of water, and skim gently. When it has boiled a short time, put in some salt, tui'nips, 6 carrots, and 6 onions, into one of which you should stick 3 cloves; add a bunch of leeks. Let the whole boil gently till the beef is perfectly done ; then take it out, and serve it up either with fresh parsley with a sauce, or with onions or other vegetables.[ 92 ] BEE BEE BEEF, BEISKET OF (Stewed). Eub the meat with salt and saltpetre, and let it lie four or five days; then lard it with fat bacon, and put it into a stewpan with 1 quart of water, 1 pint of strong beer, some sweet herbs, ^ lb. of butter, 3 shallots, some grated nutmeg, and pepper; cover it closely, and stew it over a slow fire for five or six hours. Strain off the liquor, thicken it with burnt butter, and pour it over the beef Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve it up. BEEF BROSE. After any large piece of beef has been taken out of the pot it was boiled in, skim off the fat with part of the liquor, and boil it in a saucepan. Have ready in a bowl oatmeal that has been toasted brown before the fire, and salted to taste; pour in the boiling liquor and stir it a little ; if too thick add more liquor, and send it to table quite hot. BEEF BROTH. Wash a leg or shin of beef very clean, crack the bone in two or three places, and add to it any trimmings you have of meat, game, or poultry (heads, necks, gizzards, or feet), and cover them with cold water. Watch and stir it up well from the bottom, and the moment it begins to simmer, skim it carefully. Your broth must be perfectly clear and limpid, for on this depends the goodness of the soups, sauces, and gravies, of which it is the basis. Then add some cold water to make the re- maining scum rise, and skim it again. When the scum has done rising, and the surface of the broth is quite clear, put in 1 carrot, 1 head of celery, 2 turnips, and 3 onions. It should not have any taste of sweet herbs, spice, or garlic; either of these flavours may be added after- wards, if desired. Cover it close, set it by the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently, so as not to waste the broth, for four or five hours or more, according to the weight of the meat. Strain it through a sieve into a clean and dry stone pan, and set it in the coldest place you have. This is the foundation of all sorts of soups and sauces, brown and white. BEEF, COLLARED (1). Choose the thin end of the flank of fine, mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre; turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool; then take out all the bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning, cut small :— A large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thvme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, ealt, and allspice. Boll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it; then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round befoi-e the tape. Put the beef under a good weight, while hot, without undoing it; the shape will then be oval. Part of the breast of veal rolled in with the beef looks and eats very well. BEEP, COLLARED (Q). Lay a flank of beef in ham brine a fortnight, dry it in a cloth, take out the leather and skin, cut it across and across; season it with spice, 2 anchovies, a handful of thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savory, onions, and fennel; strew this on the meat, roll it in a hard collar in a cloth, sew it, tie it at both ends, and put it in a collar pot, with 1 pint of red wine, as much cochineal as will fill a dessert-spoon without being heaped, and 2 quarts of pump water. When cold, take it out of the cloth. BEEF COLLOPS (1). Take the fillet from the under part of a rump of beef, cut it into small, thin slices, and fry them till three-parts done; then add to them slices of pickled cu- cumbers, small stewed mushrooms, blanched oysters, some good seasoned cullis, and stew them till tender. BEEF COLLOPS (2). Cut a large rump- steak into small pieces, score them with a knife, and flour them; then melt some butter in a Stewpan, and put in the collops, which must be fried quickly a few minutes. Pour in 1 pint of gravy, with the addition of a little butter, rolled in flour, and season with pepper and salt. Cut in slices 4 pickled cucumbers ; chop a few capers, half a walnut, and a little onion. Put these into the pan, and, having stewed the whole five or six minutes, pour them hot into the dish. Garnish with lemon. BEEF CULLIS. Roast a piece of buttock of beef very brown; then cut olf all the brown part, and, whilst hot, beat it in a mortar with some partridge, or fowl, and crusts of bread; then put them into a stewpan with some strong gravy and good broth; season with salt, pepper, cloves, thyme, sweet basil, and a piece of green lemon. Give the whole four or five boilings, and then strain it for use. BEEF, FAMILY. Take a brisket and rub into it the following mixture :—i lb. of coarse sugar, ^ oz. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of bay salt, and 1 lb. of common salt. Put the meat into an earthen pan, and turn it every day. After remaining in this pickle a fortnight, it may be boiled and sent to table with savoys or greens. When cold and cut into slices it eats well with poivrade sauce, or any kind of pickle. BEEF, FILLET OF (with Anchovies). Soak 5 or 6 anchovies in water about two hours; split them, and lay the fillet with them, inter- mixed with bacon; boil them on a slow fire, with a little broth and 1 glass of white wine, 1 clove of garlic, 2 cloves, and a faggot of sweet herbs. When done, sift the sauce, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, 2 spoonsful of cream, and a few small, whole capers. Make a thickening, and serve it upon the fillet. BEEF, FILLET OF (Roasted). The fiUetBEE C 93 ] BEE lies only in the inside of the sirloin, next to the chine, and is the tenderest part of the ox. Place this on a small spit, but do not run it through the best part of the meat; roast it gently, and baste it with butter; catch gravy in a dish while the beef is roasting. .In the meantime make a sauce for it with sweet herbs and parsley, shred fine, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 onion, and some orange-peel, chopped small; put these into fi'esh butter, gravy, 1 or 2 spoonsful of strong broth and vinegar; stew them all together. Put your beef into this sauce and serve it hot. BEEF, FILLET OF (Roasted and Larded) (1). Trim your fillet, lard it fine, and let it soak for twelve hours in a pickle made of good oil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, and an onion cut in slices. After it has soaked, take it out and put it on the spit before a quick fire. It must not be too much done, but should be taken off the spit with the gravy in it. Serve it with a sauce made of its own gravy, a little vinegar^ shallots, salt, and pepper, put into a sauce-boat. BEEF, FILLET OF (Roasted and Larded) (2). Take off the superfluous fat and tie the fillet ready for cooking; lard it at each extremity, leaving the middle without lai'd. Let it soak some days in oil seasoned with onions, parsley, lemon-juice, and pepper. Truss it in the form of an S or a round, and roast it till it retains a good colour. Dish it with any sauce you may think best. BEEF, FORCEMEAT. Mince a piece of tender beef with as much suet, a bit of ham, and small bits of bacon, 3 or 3 eggs, parsley, shallots, thyme, laurel, fine spices, and a little salt; add a glass of brandy; mix all together, and roll it into the form of a large pudding ; place round it thin slices of bacon ; over the bacon put white paper, and upon the paper a paste made of flour and water. Bake it about two hours in the oven, and when done take off the paste and bacon. If you serve it hot, add a relishing sauce; if cold, leave the paste till you are ready to serve, and send it up in a second course. BEEF, FRTCANDEAU OF. Take a nice bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice ; put it into a stewpan, with 1 pint of broth, 1 glass of white wine, 1 bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, I clove of garlic, 1 or 2 shallots, 4 cloves, pepper, and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it closely; skim the sauce well and strain it. Set it on the fire and let it boil till it is reduced to glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. BEEF, FRICASSEE OF (Cold Roast). Cut the meat into slices, and shred well a handful of parsley; quarter an onion, and put the whole into a pan with butter and strong broth; throw in some pepper and salt, and simmer gently a quarter of an hour. Add the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar. Stir these quickly, rub the dish with shallot, and pour the fricasee into it. BEEF, FRIED. Cut your beef into steaks; beat them with the back of a shredding-knife ; take out all the fat; and then put them into a frying-pan with a sufficient quantity of butter to moisten the pan; set it over a moderate fire, turn your beef often, and, as the gravy runs from it, keep pouring it out; then fry the fat by itself and lay it on the lean. Then put a little anchovy, onion, nutmeg, pepper, and claret, into the gravv, and stew it a little. BEEF GOBLETS. Take about 6 lbs. of any piece of beef, except the leg or shin ; cut it into pieces about the size of a hen's egg; put them into a stewpan, and just cover them with water; put them over the fire, and when the scum rises skim it clear off; then put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole pepper, tied in muslin, 6 heads of celery, about an inch long and well washed, 1 or 2 carrots, cut in slices, 2 turnips, cut in dice, a bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, and a crust of bread ; stew them till the meat is tender, and then take out the spice, herbs, and bread. Have some crusts of French roll crisped before the fire; put them into a dish, and put the meat, &c., over them. Put in 2 ozs. of Scotch barley or rice when you put in the herbs. BEEF GRAVY. Cut a piece of the chuck or neck into small pieces ; strew some flour over it; mix it well with the meat, and put it into the saucepan with as much water as will cover it, an onion, a little allspice, a little pepper^ and some salt; cover it closely, and when it boils skim it. Then throw in a hard crust of bread or some raspings, and stew it till the gravy is rich and good ; strain it off, and pour it into a sauce- boat. BEEF, HAMBURGH. Take about 8 lbs. of buttock of beef, and cure it in the same way as you would a ham, letting it lie for three weeks, rubbing and turning it every day. Then sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in a chimney or smoking-house to dry, turning it upside down every day for some time at first to prevent the brine from settling in one place. When ready for use, boil in soft water. BEEF HAMS (1). Cut the leg of a small ox like a ham of about 15 lbs. ; then mix 1 oz. of bay salt, the same quantity of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt, and as much coarse sugar. Rub these well into the meat; turn and barfte it with the pickle every day for a mouth ; then take it out, roll it in bran or sawdust, and hangBEE [ 9^ ] BEE it up in. wood-smolte for the same space of time. Keep it in a dry, but not a very hot place, and wlien used, cut it into slices or boil it like Ham- burgh beef. BEEF HAMS (2). Rub a little common salt over a piece of beef of about 20 lbs. weight; take out the bone, and, in one or two days, rub well into the beef the following ingredients, finely pounded and well mixed :—2 ozs. of sal prunella, 4 ozs. of brown sugar, 6 ozs. of bay salt, 1 oz. of white pepper, and of cloves and nut- meg, i oz. each; then strew over it ^Ib. of com- mon salt. Let it lie fifteen days, turning it daily. It is then to be hung up; or when taken out of the pickle it may be boiled, and allowed to stand till cold in the water in which it was boiled; or it may be baked in a deep dish, covered with warm paste. BEEF, HASHED (1). Take three or four onions, chop them very fine, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and a little flour; stir them over the fire till nearly done and well browned ; then moisten them with a little stock and half a glass of wine, adding some salt and coarse pepper ; let them stew till they are thoroughly done, and very little sauce re- mains ; then put in the cold beef, minced small, and let the whole simmer till it has taken the flavour of the onion. When you serve, add a spoonful of mustard and a little vinegar. BEEF HASHED (2). Cut some of the under-done part of the beef in slices, with some of the fat, put it into a small stewpan with some onions or shallots (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft; then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the hash. Do not let it boil. Have a small dish with sippets of bread ready, and put the hash into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it. If shallot vinegar is used there will be no need of -the onion or raw shallot. You may add 1 spoonful of walnut liquor or catsup. OlDserve that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be simmered, and this only hot through. BEEF, HUNG. Lay a rib of beef in a strong brine, made of bay salt, saltpetre, and spring water, for some days; then hang it up in a chimney where wood and sawdust is burnt. When a little dry, wash the outside with blood two or three times, to make it look black ; let it dry, and it will be fit for use. Or, hang up the navel-piece in a cellar as long as it will keep good, and then take it down, cut it into three parts, and wash each in sugar and water. Next take 1 lb. of saltpetre, and double that quantity of bay salt, pounded ; mix with them 3 spoons- ful of coarse sugar, and rub the whole thoroughly into the beef. After this, strew over it a quan- tity of common salt, and let the beef lie therein till it is dissolved. Turn the meat eveiy day for a fortnight, and then hang it up in the kitchen. When wanted for use, boil it in bay salt and pump-water till it is tender. It will keep after being boiled two or three months, if care be taken to wipe it clean, and it is not suffered to get mouldy. BEEF, HUNG (Burgess's). Hung beef for grating should be put on in boiling water; and, to preserve the colour, kept boiling as fast as possible. Allow for 6 lbs. of beef one hour and a half. It will keep good for a length of time. BEEF, HUNTING. Rub well into a round of beef, weighing about 40 lbs., 3 ozs. of salt- petre; let it stand five or six hours; pound 3 ozs. of allspice, 1 oz. of black pepper, and mix them with 2 lbs. of salt, and 7 ozs. of brown sugar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and spices ; let it remain fourteen days, and every other day turn and rub it with the pickle; then wash off the spices, and put it into a deep pan. Cut small nearly 6 lbs. of beef suet; put some into the bottom of the pan, but the greater part upon the top of the beef. Cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it eight hours. When cold, take off the crust, and pom- off the gravy. It will keep good for three months. Preserve the gravy, as a little of it improves the flavour of hashes, soups, or any made-dishes. BEEF, LEG OF : To Bake. Cut off the meat, and break the bones ; put the whole into a pan with 2 onions, some herbs, 1 spoonful of whole pepper, a few cloves, and some blades of mace. Cover all these with water, tie the pot down close with brown paper, and send it to the oven. When done, strain the liquor through a sieve, pick out the fat and sinews, and put them into a saucepan with a little gravy, and some butter, rolled in flour. Set the saucepan on the fire, shake it often, and when hot pour the con- tents into a dish, and send it to table. Ox cheek may be done in the same way ; and if the liquor be too strong, weaken it with hot-water. BEEF, LEG OF: To Stew. Cut off all the meat without the gristle. Saw the bone into several pieces, and put them with 3 gallons of water, 6 onions, 4 carrots, some sweet herbs, 2 leeks, a little allspice, salt, and black pepper, into a pot to stew all night. Next morning take off the fat, and having cut the meat into thick slices, fry them till brown with a part of the skimming, and keep the remainder to make pie- crust. Fiy 6 sliced onions ; put them and the meat, with 1 quart of table-beer, into the pot with the liquor produced by the bones, adding onions and other vegetables as before. Stew the whole eight hours ; take up the meat, and strain the liquor over it.BEE [ 95 ] BEE BEEF, MINCED (1). Take some cold roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, and put it into a reduced Spanish sauce made boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft, boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toasted bread. BEEF, MINCED (2). Mince your beef very small; put it into a saucepan with a little gravy and a little of the fat of fowl, or any other fat; moisten it with some stock and a little white wine; season according to your taste; then let it simmer over a gentle fire till it is sufficiently done. BEEF OLIVES. Cut some slices of under- done boiled beef i inch thick and 4 inches square; lay them on a forcemeat, made of bread- crumbs, shallots, suet or fat, pepper and salt. EoU and fasten them with a skewer ; put them into a stewpan with gravy, made of either bones or meat, and a little water. Stew the whole till tender; add at pleasure mushrooms, truffles, and morels. Garnish with beet-root and lemon. You may use fresh meat instead of that which has been dressed. BEEF-AND-OYSTER SAUSAGES. Scald f pint of oysters in their own liquor ; take them out and chop them fine; mince 1 lb. of beef and mutton, and f lb. of beef suet; add the oysters, and season with salt, pepper, mace, and two pounded cloves ; beat up 2 eggs, and mix them well with the other ingredients, and pack it closely into a jar. When to be used roll it into the form of small sausages ; dip them into the yolk of an egg beaten up, strew grated bread- crumbs over them, or dust with flour, and fry them in fresh dripping. Serve them upon fried bread hot. BEEF PASTY. Take a small rutnp or sir- loin of beef, bone it, and beat it well with a rolling-pin ; to 5 lbs. of beef take 2 ozs. of sugar, rub it well into the meat, and let it lie for twenty-four hours ; then either wipe it clean or wash it off with a little claret, and season it highly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; put it in your pasty, and lay over it 1 lb. of butter; close it up, and bake it. Put the bones into a pan with just as much water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, and when the pasty is drawn, if it wants liquor, put in some of this gravy. BEEF, PICKLED. Stick a rib of beef with garlic and cloves; season it with salt, black pepper, mace, and garlic, pounded; cover it with vinegar and thyme; turn it every day for a fortnight, and, if necessary, add more vinegar; then put it into a stewpan, and cover it close; simmer for si.x; hours, and put thereto vinegar and white wine. BEEF PIES (with Truffles). Bone a small, fat rump of beef; daub it with slips of fat bacon; put it into a raised crust with light forcemeat, and plenty of whole, peeled, green truffles round it; cover it with paste; garnish, and bake it two hours ; then add sauce made with a pint of veal broth, a gill of lemon-pickle, a bay leaf, a few chopped shallots, and Cayenne pepper; make it of a proper thickness, and strain. Two hours afterwards cut the top off the pie, skim free from fat, glaze the rump, and serve it at table. BEEF, PORCUPINE OF. Bone the flat ribs and beat the meat half an hour; then rub it over with the yolks of eggs. Strew thereon bread-crumbs, parsley, leeks, sweet marjoram, lemon-peel, grated fine, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Roll it up tight and bind it close : lard it across with bacon; then add a row of cold, boiled tongue, another of pickled cucumbers, next a row of lemon-peel, and so continue till it is larded all round. Then split and put it into a deep pot with 1 pint of water; then lay over it a caul of veal; tie it down with strong paper, and send it to the oven. When done, skim off the fat and strain the gravy into the saucepan; add to it 2 spoonsful of red wine, as much browning, half the quantity of mushi'oom catsup, and half a lemon. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour. Dish up the meat, pour in the gravy, lay round it forcemeat balls, and garnish with horseradish. BEEF, PORTUGAL. Take the meat from a rump of beef, cut it across, flour it, and fry the thin part brown in butter; stuff the thick end with suet, boiled chestnuts, an anchovy, an onion, and a little pepper; stew it with good strong broth, and when tender cut the fried in two, and lay it on each side of the stewed in the dish; strain the gravy; put to it pickled gherkins, chopped, and some boiled chestnuts ; thicken with burnt butter, and boil it up two or three times; season with salt; pour it over the beef; garnish with lemon, and serve. BEEF, POTTED (1). Rub 2lbs. of lean beef with saltpetre and let it lie one night; then do it over with common salt and cover it with water, in which it must remain four days. On taking it out, dry it with a cloth and season it with black pepper. Lay it in a small pan, cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven, but put no liquor into the pan. When cold, clear away the sinews and fat; beat the meat very fine, with ;|-Ib. of warm butter and as much gravy as will make a paste. Put it into small pots covered with melted butter. BEEF, POTTED (2). Take 4 lbs. of beef, free from skin and sinews, and rub it with sugar, salt, and saltpetre, in the proportion of about ^ oz. of each to the above quantity of meat. Let it lie in the pickle one or two days,BEE [ 96 ] BEE turning it three or four times. After this put it into an oven with some chopped suet and about 1 pint of water. When stewed enough, drain off the fat and gravy, and pound the meat in a mortar till it is perfectly smooth. Add thereto some Cayenne and white pepper, salt, pounded mace, a little of the clear gravy, and gradually put in about i lb. of oiled butter while beat- ing. When it is reduced to a proper consist- ence, lay it in pots covered with melted butter. This kind of meat is very good for weak stomachs. BEEF, POTTED (3). Take some lean beef, rub it with salt and saltpetre, and let it lay three or four days ; then cut it in pieces and boil it; beat it to a powder, mixing with it some fat; add spice, put it in pots, and pour butter over it. BEEF, POTTED (4). Take 2 lbs. of the fillet out of the inside of a rump of beef, and 2 lbs. of best fat bacon. Cut them small; put them into a marble mortar; add to them a small quantity of parsley, thyme, savory, 4 shallots, chopped fine, some pepper, salt, 2 spoonsful of essence of ham, 1 spoonful of mushroom powder, a little sifted mace, cloves, and allspice, 2 eggs beaten, and 1 gill of Rhenish wine. Pound all well together till quite fine; then fill small pots with the mixture, cover with paper, bake it gently for forty minutes, and, when cold, cover with clarified butter. BEEF, POTTED (5). Take 3 lbs. of lean beef, salt it two or three days with ^ lb. of common salt and ^ oz. of saltpetre ; divide into pieces of 1 lb. each, and put it into an earthen pan just sufficient to contain it; pour in ^ pint of water; cover it closely with paste and set it in a very slow oven for four hours ; when taken from the oven, pour the gravy from it into a basin; shi'ed the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, and pound it thoroughly in a marble mortar, with fresh but- ter, till it becomes a fine paste; season it with black pepper and allspice, or pounded cloves, or grated nutmeg; put it in pots, press it down as close as possible, put a weight on it, and let it stand all night. Next day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper. BEEF, POTTED (like Venison). Take a whole thin flank of beef, pull off the inward skin, and slash it across and across, particularly in the thickest parts; lay it for six hours in pump- water ; take as much hard salt or saltpetre as the bulk of an eggj mixed with about 2 lbs. of white salt, and rub it well into the meat; then sprinkle upon it nearly I pint of wine vinegar, and then let it lay for three or four days, turn- ing and rubbing it once a day; then rinse it out of the brine with a pint of claret, and season it with cloves, mace, and nutmeg, white and Jamaica pepper, of each ^oz., beaten alto- gether, with savory, thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon, shred together, and then well rubbed into the cuts and slashes, and the inside; then bind it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put in the claret and lay the skins at the top to save it; then bake it. BEEF, PRESSED. Salt a piece of brisket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of the ribs with salt and saltpetre five days ; then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight Or in a cheese-press till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold and for sand- wiches. BEEF RAGOUT. Take a rump of beef, cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it; pour over it a little boiling water and about a pint of small beer; add a carrot or two, an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, salt, a piece of lemon-peel, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew an hour, then add some good gravy; when the meat is tender take it out, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a little flour ; add a little celery, ready boiled, and a little catsup ; put in the meat and just simmer it up; or the celery may be omitted and the ragout enriched by adding mushrooms, fresh or pickled, arti- choke bottoms, boiled and quartered, and hard yolks of eggs. BEEF, RED (for Slices). Take a piece of the flank of beef and cut off the skin; then rub it well with a mixture made with 2 lbs. of common salt, 2 ozs. of bay salt, 2 ozs. of salt- petre, and 1 lb. of moist sugar, pounded in a marble mortar. Put it into an earthen pan, and turn and rub it daily for a week; then take it out of the brine, wip« it, and strew it all over with some pounded mace, cloves, pepper, a little allspice, and a good quantity of chopped parsley, and a few shallots. Then roll it up, bind it round with tape, bruise it till tender, press it in the same way as you press a collared pig, and when it is cold cut it in slices, and garnish with pickled barberries. BEEF, RIB OF. Keep two or three ribs of beef till perfectly tender, take out the bones, and skewer the meat as round as possible. Some cook eggs, and stufi' them with beef stuff"- ing. At first place it at some distance from the fire, and let it approach gradually. It will take four or five hours. BEEF, RIB OF (Braised). Trim a rib of beef; take out the bone, and lard it with pieces of bacon seasoned with nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, cloves, salt, and pepper; line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon, veal, and beef Have ready 14 carrots, 5 large onions, 3 of which must be stuck with cloves, 2 bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley, and a bunch of scallions. Tie your beef in a neat form, and put it intoBEE [ 97 ] BEE a stewpan ; <X)ver it with bacon; then put in the vegetables, with 2 large spoonsful of stock. Let the whole boil, after which let it simmer gently for three hours over a moderate fire; then let it drain, and untie your beef; pass a little of the liquor through a silk sieve, clear it from the fat, reduce it, and serve it over the beef. The beef must be glazed. BEEF RIBS (Boned and Rolled). When you have kept two or three ribs of beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and skewer it as round as possible, like a fillet of veal. Before some cooks roll it they egg it, and sprinkle it with veal stuffing. As the meat is more in a solid mass, it will require more time at the fire: a piece of 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. will not be well and thoroughly roasted in less than four hours and a half. For the first half hour it should not be less than 12 inches from the fire, so that it may get gradually warm to the centre; the last half hour before it is finished sprinkle a little salt over it, and if you wish to frost it flour it, &c. BEEF, ROUND OP. Lard your round with gammon and other bacon, well seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, cinnamon, coriander seed, and grated nutmeg, onions, parsley, shal- lots, all well mixed together; let as much of these be stuffed into the bacon as you can, and lard the buttock both on the top and under- neath ; then season it again with all your ingre- dients, and put it into a stewpan to be stewed a little while with onions, garlic, shallots, parsley, sweet basil, thyme, slices of lemon, verjuice, and a little broth; let it lie in these for two hours, then put it into a napkin with thin slices of bacon, wrapping it up close so that no fat may enter. Put a plate in the bottom of the pot to keep the napkin and meat from being burnt at the bottom, and boil them in the evening against the next day. To season it you may put in about 2 lbs. of the leaf-fat of a hog's belly, or beef suet, putting in some white wine, verjuice, salt, long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, slices of lemon, onion, parsley, bay leaves, sweet basil, whole coriander, anise, and fennel. When all these are put into the pot, let it be covered very closely, and let the beef be stewed very gently. When it is suf- ficiently done, let it cool in its own fat; then make a godiveau (see Godiveau) ; put it into the dish in which the piece of beef is to be dressed; then cover it with the same godiveau ; put it into an oven, and let it bake for an hour before you seiwe it at table; prepare a well-seasoned beef cullis, and make a round hole in the top of the godiveau; pour in your cullis so that it may penetrate every part, and then, above this, squeeze the juice of a lemon. This beef may be sei-ved up cold, in thin slices, instead of beef d ia royaU. BEEF, ROUND OF (Salted). As this is too large for a moderate family we shall givd directions for dressing half a round. At the tongue side skewer it tight and round, and tie a piece of broad tape round it to keep the skewers in their places ; put it into plenty of cold water, and carefully catch the scum as soon as it rises ; let it boil till all the scum is removed, and then put the boiler on one side of the fire to keep simmering slowly till it is done. Half a round of 15 lbs. will take about three hours; if it weighs more, give it more time. When you take it up, if any stray scum, &c., sticks to it that has escaped the vigilance of the skimmer, wash it off with a paste brush. Garnish the dishes with carrots and turnips. Send up carrots, turnips, and parsnips, or greens, &c., on sepa- rate dishes. Peas-pudding and any other pud- dings are all very proper accompaniments. The outside slices, which are generally too much salted and too much boiled, will make a very good relish as potted beef. For using up the remains of a joint of boiled beef, see, also, Bubble and Squeak. BEEF, RUMP OF. The rump is esteemed in France the best piece in the whole ox; it makes excellent soups, and graces the table as a middle dish. It is excellent boiled, and served plain; or, when cleansed of its fat, it may be served with a sauce made of cullis, parsley, green onions, anchovies, capers, and a little garlic ; the whole stirred fine and well seasoned. It may be served, also, boiled, and garnished with petits pates. BEEF, RUMP OF : To Bake (1). Having taken the bone clean out, beat the meat well with a rolling-pin, and lard it across with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, and cloves. The beef should be seasoned, also, in the same man- ner ; then put it into an earthen dish, with the broken bones, \ lb. of butter, some bay leaves whole pepper, 1 or 2 shallots, and sweet herbs ; cover the pan close^ put it into the oven, and bake for six hours. When done, skim off the fat, lay the meat in a dish, and serve it up with & ragout of mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat balls, and yolks of eggs ; add thereto the gravy which came from the beef in baking, but season it well. BEEF, RUMP OF : To Bake (2). Take a rump of beef of whatever size you please, bone and lard it; season it with salt and fine spices ; put it into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, together with \ pint of white wine, some green onions, mushrooms, and shallots. Some lean bacon is an improvement. Close the edges of the pan with a strong paste; let it stew in an oven for five or six hours, according to the size of your meat; then serve it with its own sauce strained. You may dress a sirloin in the same way.[ 98 ] BEE BEE BEEP, RUMP OF: To Boil (the Fbench watV Parboil your rump of beef for half an hour, take it up, and put it into a deep dish ; cut gashes in the side of your meat that the gravy may come out; put salt and pepper into every gash; then fill up the dish with claret, and put in two or three blades of mace ; set it over a chafing-dish of coals, cover it close, and let it stew for an hour and a half, turning the meat several times whilst i,t is stewing; then take off the fat, put in a handful of capers, 5 or 6 sliced onions, and 6 unripe grapes. Boil all together till the meat is tender, and serve it at table with brown bread and sippets fried in butter. BEEF, RUMP OF (en Matelote). Cut a rump into pieces and parboil them. Take some common stock, boil it whole without seasoning, and, when half done, stir in some butter, with a spoonful of flour, till brown, and moisten it with the liquor the beef was done in. Put in with the rump 12 large onions, parboiled, a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley, a leaf of laurel, some sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Stew the rump and onions till tender; skim the surface well, and put an anchovy, cut small, with some chopped capers, into the sauce. Lay the rump in the middle of the dish with the onions round it. A rump cooked in this way will take four hours. BEEF, RUMP OF: To Stew (1). Roast it till half done, and put it into a stewpan with 3 pints of water, 1 pint of small beer, the same of port wine, some salt, 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of vinegar, 2 of catsup, a bunch of sweet herbs, some onions, cloves, and Cayenne pepper. Cover the pan close, and let it simmer two or three hours. When done, lay the beef in a dish set over hot water, and well covered. Skim the gravy; put therein some pickled mushrooms, truffles, and morels; thicken with flour and butter; beat all together, and pour the mixture over the beef. Serve with forcemeat balls. BEEF, RUMP OF : To Stew (2). Bind the beef tightly, stick in 4 cloves, and put it in a saucepan with 3 quarts of water, ^ oz. of black pepper, some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 3 anchovies; turn it often, and when half done, take it out and pour off the liquor; put in the beef again, with 1 pint of port wine and ^ pint of table-beer made scalding hot, and some of the liquor strained; stew it till tender, clear off the fat, and if the sauce is not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef gravy; thicken it with flour rubbed down in a little cold water. Dish the beef, and pour the gravv round it. BEEF, RUMP OF: To Stew (3). Tie up the beef, and put it on to stew with nearly as much cold water as will cover it. Add 3 lbs. of fat bacon, cut into slices, a handful of thyme, 8 onions, 4 small carrots, 2 turnips, 2 or 3 bay leaves, some black pepper, a little allspice, mace, and 3 cloves, 1 pint of port wine and 1 pint of sherry. Let it stew gently between seven and eiglit hours. Take out the beef, strain out the liquor, and skim off the fat; thicken it with a little flour rubbed down in cold water; boil it up, and poui' it over the beef. Have ready carrots and turnips, cut according to fancy and boiled tender in weak gravy, and put them round the beef before serving. BEEF, SALTED. Beef should be well sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung up to dry, before it is rubbed with salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, sei-ves to keep it from tasting sti'ong. It should be turned every day; and, if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, with a cover to fit close. Those who use a great deal of salt meat will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and, when cold, pour it over the meat that has been sprinkled and drained. BEEF, SALTED (the Ddtch way). Take a lean piece of beef, and rub it well with brown sugar (some pour treacle over it); let it lie at least two days, turning it veiy often ; then wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre; beat the saltpetre fine, rub it in well, and turn it every day for fifteen or sixteen dajs; then roll it very tight in a coarse cloth, and press it down with a large weight; hang it to dry in a chimney, but turn the bottom upwards every day; then boil it in pump water. It will cut into shivers like Dutch beef. BEEF, SALTED (Red). This is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle or to hang up to dry. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is not proper), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it -with com- mon salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, but only a small portion of the saltpetre; and you may add a few grains of cochineal—all in fine powder; rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, and then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen days drain it from the pickle, and let it be smoked at the oven's mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker's. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender, with greens and caiTots. If it is to be grated, as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it extremely tender, and, while hot, put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for using on bread and butter.BEE BEE [ 99 ] BEEF SAUSAGES. Take two beefsteaks about the size of two hands and the thickness of a finger; beat them well to make them flat, and pare the edges of them; then mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, green onions, mushrooms, two shallots, and some basil leaves, tbe whole shred fine, and mixed into a force- meat with the yolks of four eggs. Spread the forcemeat on the slices of beef and roll them up in the form of sausages; tie them up with packthread, and stew them with a little stock, a glass of wine, some salt and pepper, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip. When they are done, strain the liquor, and, having skimmed the fat, reduce it over a fire to the consistence of a sauce. Take care that the sauce is not too highly flavoured, and serve it over your sausages, or they may be served with any ragout of vege- tables you please. To serve the sausages cold (to make a dish for the second course), reduce the sauce by letting it boil with the sausages till almost all the fat is consumed ; then let them stand to cool with what remains of the sauce ad- hering to them, and serve upon a napkin. BEEF, SHIN OF (Stewed). Desire the butcher to saw the bone into three or four pieces; put them into a stewpan, and just cover it with cold water; when it simmers fikim it clean ; then put in a bundle of sweet herbs, 1 large onion, 1 head of celery, 12 berries of black pepper, and the same of allspice ; stew very gently over a slow fire till the meat is tender. This will take from about three hours and a half to four hours and a half. Take 3 car- rots, peel and cut them into small squares; peel and cut ready in small squares 2 turnips, with 24 small, young, round, silver-button onions ; boil them till tender—the turnips and onions will be done in about fifteen minutes, the carrots will require about twice as long— drain them dry. When the beef is quite tender take it out carefully with a slice, and keep it on a dish while you thicken 1| pint of the gravy. To do this mix 3 table-spoonsful of flour with 1 tea-cupful of beef liquor; stir this thoroughly till it boils, skim off the fat, strain it through a sieve, and put your vegetables in to warm ; season with pepper, salt, and 1 wine-glassful of mushroom catsup, or port wine, or both, and pour it over the beef. Dr. Kitchener commends this dish as one of the very best that can be carried to table, and advises it to be called ragout beef. A leg of mutton is excellent dressed in the same way. BEEF, SIRLOIN OF. A noble sirloin of about 15 lbs. (if very thick the outside will be overdone before the inside is done enough,) will require to be before the fire about three and a half or four hours. Take care to spit evenly, that it may not be heavier on one side than on the other. Put a little clean dripping into a dripping-pan, tie a sheet of paper over the meat to preserve the fat, baste it well as soon as it is put down, and once every quarter of an hour whilst it is roasting till the last half hour; then take off the paper. Stir the fire, and make it clear, to brown and froth it; sprinkle a little salt over it; baste it with butter, and dredge it with flour; let it roast a few minutes longer till the froth rises; take it up, put it on a dish, &c., garnish it with hillocks of horse- radish, scraped as fine as possible with a very sharp knife. A Yorkshire pudding is an excel- lent accompaniment. BEEF, SIRLOIN OF (en Spigeamme). Having roasted a sirloin of beef, carefully take up the skin of the meat, which you must cut out and mince in fine shreds, but take care you do not cut the sides. Have a strong, brown sauce ready, with a few mushrooms, pepper and salt, and a little lemon-juice; put in the mince, lay it inside the beef, and cover the skin. Serve it up hot with a strong gravy. BEEF, SIRLOIN OF (Inside of). Raise the fat, cut the meat close to the bones, and chop it small. Cut 1 lb. of suet in the same manner ; then put to it some crumbs of bread, shredded lemon-peel, thyme, pepper, and salt, half a nut- meg, grated, and 2 shallots, chopped fine. Mix them with 1 glass of port; put the whole into the cavity from whence the beef was cut, strew the skin and fat over it, skewer it down and cover it with paper. Spit the sirloin before the meat is taken out, and put it down to the fire. Previous to its being done, take i pint of port, and some shallots, cut small; boil them, and pour the whole into the dish with the gravy. Send it hot to table, garnished with lemon. The inside of a rump of beef may be done in the same way by taking off the skin, cutting out the meat in the middle, and proceeding as before. BEEF, SKIRTS OF. Beef skirts eat well boiled ; they also make an excellent pie. BEEF, SMOKED (Hamburgh). Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan with juniper berries, thyme, basil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves, and onions, cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully, so as to exclude all air; turn your meat every two or three days ; at the end of a fortnight take it out, and, after having washed it in several waters, drain it for four- and-twenty hours ; then wrap it in a clean cloth, put it into a saucepan, and let it stew for seven or eight hours; take it out and let it drain. Serve cold, the same as ham. BEEF SOUP. Take a shin or leg of beef, cut it in pieces with 6 onions, 2 carrots, celery, leeks, 2 turnips, a bundle of sweet herbs, black pepper, and allspice, to your taste ; put all thisC 100 ] BEE BEE ■with tte beef into a stewpan, without water, over a slow fire for an hour; then pour over it 2 quarts of boiling water; let it stew till the meat is tender, and if you have not sufBcient soup add more water. When the beef is tender enough, take out all the best parts, and let the rest stew with the herbs till quite a rag ; then strain the liquor off and add to it some herbs, stewed in a pan by themselves with a little water; the carrots, &c., must be cut about an inch long; the water they are stewed in must be put in the soup ; then let your beef and all be stewed together, but it must not quite boil. Let it be nicely skimmed. BEEF, SOUSED. Take either buttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, and season with salt and pepper for four days ; then roll it up as even as you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in water and salt till it is tender; then souse it in water and vinegar, and a little white wine and salt; put it into a hook frame to form it round and upright; then dry it in some smoky place or in the air. When you wish to use it, cut it out in slices, and serve it with sugar and mustard. BEEF, SPICED (To be eaten cold). Hang up 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. of the middle part of a brisket of beef three or four days, and then rub well into it 3 ozs. of finely-pounded saltpetre ; and, if spice is approved of, 1 oz. of allspice and ^ oz. of black pepper; let it stand all night; then rub it with 3 lbs. of well-pounded bay salt, and i lb. of treacle, in which it should remain ten days, rubbing it daily. When it is to be boiled, sew it closely in a cloth; let the water only simmer—upon no account allow- ing it to boil—for nine hours over a slow fire or upon a stove. When taken out of the water, place two sticks across the pot, and let the beef stand over the steam half an hour, turning it from side to side ; then press it with a heavy weight. It must not be taken out of the cloth till perfectly cold. BEEF, STEWED. Stew in 5 quarts of water the middle part of a brisket of beef, weighing 10 lbs.; add 2 onions, stuck with 2 cloves, 1 head of celery, 1 large carrot, 2 tur- nips, cut small, 1 handful of sorrel leaves, ^ oz. of black pepper, and some salt. Stew it gently for six hours. Make a strong gravy with carrots and turnips, the turnips to be scraped and fried of a brown colour in ^butter ; add pepper, salt, and a little Cayenne ; thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the beef with the carrots and turnips. BEEF STOCK (1). This is made from the legs, shin, and scrags of beef or any bones that can be spared ; chop them into pieces, wash them, and put them in a large pot on the fire, filled half with cold and half with hot water; it must be closely attended to when it begins to boil, in order to take off the scum; then set it on one side of the stove to boil gently, and put in three or four carrots, well scraped and washed, onions, parsley, peppercorns, salt, and one clove of garlic ; put the cover on, and carefully skim it when wanted. When the meat has boiled to pieces, run the liquor through a sieve the same as a consomme. This serves for plain hashes, or to reduce the glaze for vegetable soups, &c., if required. BEEF STOCK (2). Put chuck beef, cut in pieces, into a pot; set it on the fire with water enough to cover it. When boiling, skim it clean ; add a bunch of parsley and thyme, car- rots, leeks, onions, turnips, celery, and a little salt; boil the meat until it is tender, skim off the fat, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. BEEF SUET AND MARROW. To use suet and marrow, all the skin and sinews should be picked out very carefully. The suet is used for most forcemeats; and the marrow for pai'- ticular occasions, and is extremely good to put into braises, being very nourishing. If you wish to use marrow instead of butter, soak it in luke- warm water, turning and pressing it with your hands to render it soft and to squeeze out the water. BEEF TEA. Cut 1 lb. of lean gravy meat into thin slices ; put it into 2^ pints of cold water; set it over a gentle fire where it will become gradually warm. When the scum rises let it continue simmering gently for about an hour; then strain it through a fine sieve or napkin, let it stand ten minutes to settle, and then pour off the clear tea. An onion and a few grains of black pepper are sometimes added. If the meat is boiled till it is thoroughly tender, you may mince it, and pound it, and make of it potted beef. BEEFINGS, or Biffins, are a variety of apples called the Norfolk heejing, baked in ovens and flattened in tins to the form of small round cakes. BEEFSTEAK PIE (1). Cut the steaks off a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and lean together, about half an inch tliick; beat them a little with a rolling-pin; put over them some salt, pepper, and parboiled onion, minced; roll them up and pack them neatly in the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add some spoonsful of gravy and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Cover the pie with a puff-paste and bake it an hour. It is a common but mistaken opinion that it is necessai-y to put stock or water into meat- pies. Beef, mutton, veal, and pork, if not pre- viously dressed, will be found to yield a suffi- ciency of gravy, and the pie will be better without any additional liquid. Large oysters parboiled, bearded, and laid alternately with theBEE t 101 ] BEE steaks, their liquor reduced and substituted for catsup and wine, will be a variety. BEEFSTEAK PIE (2). Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, flour, and season with pepper and salt. ' When seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with pufF-paste round the edges ; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with good crust. BEEFSTEAK PIE (Raised). Take rump- steaks, cut the skin from the fat, beat the steaks ■with a chopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, spi'inkle them with a little fi'esh butter, pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and chopped shallots, and when half done, put them into a dish till cold. Blanch oysters, strain them, and pre- serve the liquor; raise a crust, put a layer of steaks at the bottom, then oysters upon it, and so on alternately; cover the pie, ornament and bake it. When done, put it into a good cullis with the oyster liquor and some catsup mixed with it, and serve it. Steaks with oysters may be done the same way. Put into a deep dish and cover with puff-paste. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (1). Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, season them, and roll them with fat between, and if you approve of shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin and put in the rolls of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in ; cover with a cloth tied closely, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (2). Take flour, chopped suet, some milk, a little salt, and an egg, and mix them well together. Boll out the paste half an inch thick, and sheet a basin or bowl with it; then trim the skin from the meat, beat the steaks well with a chopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt; put them into the basin with blanched oysters and slices of potatoes alter- nately, or slices of onion; cover the top with paste, and tie a cloth over the basin. Boil the pudding, if of a middling size, two hours, and when it is to be served up, put into it a little cullis and catsup. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (3). Get rump- steaks not too thick, beat them with a chopper, cut them into pieces half the size of your hand, and trim off all the skin, sinews, &c. Have ready an onion, peeled and chopped fine, like- wise some potatoes, peeled and cut into slices a quarter of an inch thick; rub the inside of a basin or an oval, plain mould with butter, sheet it with paste, season the steaks with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; put in a layer of steaks, then another of potatoes, and so on till it is full, occasionally throwing in part of the chopped onion; add to it \ gill of mushroom catsup, a table-spoonful of iemon-pickle, and \ gill of water or veal broth ; roll out a top, and close il well to prevent the water getting in; rinse a clean cloth in hot water, sprinkle a little flour over it, and tie up the pudding. Have ready a large pot of boiling water, put it in, and boil it two hours and a half; take it up, remove the cloth, turn it downwards in a deep dish, and when wanted take away the basin or mould. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (Baked). Make a batter of milk, 2 eggs, and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes, boiled and mashed through a cullender; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, and veiy well seasoned ; pour the re- mainder of the batter over them, and bake. BEEFSTEAKS, BROILED (1). Cut your steaks rather thick, beat them well, and soak them, in oil or vinegar, with a little fine salt; then broil them on a gridiron over a clear, quick fire; but before you broil your steaks make a preparation with some fresh butter, salt, and parsley, chopped fine and mixed to- gether with the juice of a lemon; put the preparation into a dish made very hot, and serve your steaks upon it. You may garnish with fried slices of potato, slices of pickled cucumber, and cresses. Some make use of anchovy sauce instead of parsley. BEEFSTEAKS, BROILED (2). The best steaks are cut from the middle of the rump. Let them be cut half an inch thick, then beat with a rolling-pin; season them with pepper and salt. Let the fire be very brisk and clear, and the gridiron very clean; set the dish before the fire, upon a chafing-dish, to keep hot; turn the steaks often with a pair of small tongs made on purpose. When they are done enough, lay them in the dish and rub a bit of butter over them. Be sure not to season them till they are put upon the gridiron. BEEFSTEAKS, BROILED (3). Cut the steaks off a rump, or the ribs of a fore-quarter, and beat them well with a rolling-pin. Have the gridiron perfectly clean, and heated over a quick fire ; lay on the steaks, and keep turn- ing them constantly with meat-tongs till they are done enough; throw a little salt over them just before taking them off the fire. Serve them as hot as possible, plain, or with a made- gravy and sliced onion, or rub a bit of butter upon them the moment of serving. Mutton- chops are broiled in the same manner. BEEFSTEAKS, FRIED. Pepper and salt some rump-steaks, stew them with some water, a glass of Madeira, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy or two, an onion, a piece of lemon -peel, and two or three cloves; cover them closely, and ■when tender take them out; flour them pretty ■well, fry them, pour off the fat, strain the liquor they were stewed in, and put it to theBEE BEE [ 102 ] Bteaks witli catsup or mushroom powder and liquor, oysters and their liquor, and lemon- juice. Simmer up, and garnish with pickle. BEEFSTEAKS, ROLLED. Take three ' or four large steaks, and flatten them with a cleaver. Make a farce with the flesh of a capon, lean of a fillet of veal, and some gammon of bacon, both fat and lean; add to this the fat of a loin of veal, sweetbreads, young onions, parsley, mushrooms, and truffles, the yolks of four eggs and a little cream. Season all these very well with spices and herbs, and hash them; then strew them on your slices of beef, and roll it up very handsomely, that it may be firm, and of a good size ; then let them stew a good while. When they are sufficiently done, take them up and drain away the fat; then slit them in two, and lay them in a dish, the cut side uppermost, and serve them either with ragoiit or cullis. BEER (for the Table). Take 8 bushels of malt, 8 lbs. of hops, 8 lbs. of sugar, made into colour, 8 ozs. of Spanish liquorice, and 10 lbs. of treacle. The produce is 10 barrels. For the process of making beer, see Brewing, BEER, BARRELING. When the fermen- tation has entirely ceased, bung up the cask. The practice of putting a handful of hops, either in their natural state or previously scalded, into the cask, with a view of fining, is a bad one. The hops are liable to stop up the cock, and besides they do not possess the power of fining the liquor. If the brewing has been correctly performed, it speedily becomes clear, and it only requires age to improve in quality. If the brew- ing has been properly conducted, the liquor will be clear at all events in fourteen days. If it be intended to mantle in the glass, it must be bottled off before the insensible fermentation in the cask has ceased, or, at all events, immedi- ately when it has become bright. The casks should be occasionally examined, especially in warm weather. If a hissing noise is audible at the bung-hole, the spile may be left in loosely till the liquor has become quiet, but it is better to checii the fermentation, which may be done by repeatedly wetting the cask with cold water all over with a mop. The liquor being well prepared and com pletely worked off, it will then be proper to remove it to the place where it is to remain for use. As soon as it is placed in the cellar, the bung must be drawn and the casks filled quite full with fine beer, skimming off the head from time to time that will arise in consequence of their being rolled over. After being attended in this manner for two or three days, the casks should be bunged tight, and a hole bored with a gimlet near the bung for the vent-peg, which should be left rather slack for a day or two. BEER, ELDERBERRY. Take a hogshead of the first and strongest wort, and boil in the same 1 bushel of picked elderberries, fully ripe; strain off, and when cold, work the liquor in the hogshead, and not in an open tun or tub ; and after it has lain in the cask about a year, bottle it, and it will be one of the richest diinks. It is called elbulum, and has been often preferred to port wine for its pleasant taste and healthful quality. There is no occasion for the use of sugar in this undertaking, because the wort has strength and sweetness enough in itself to answer that pur- pose ; but there should be an infusion of hops added to the liquor by way of preservation and relish. Some likewise hang a small bag of bruised spices in the vessel. You may make a white elbulum with pale malt and white elder- berries. BEER, GINGER (1). Take lump sugar, 31bs.; bruised ginger, 2 ozs.; cream of tartar, 1 oz.; sliced lemon, 4 ozs., and pour on them 4 gallons of boiling water. Add i pint of yeast, work the liquor four days, and then bottle it, and tie down the corks. BEER, GINGER (2). Boil in 2 gallons of soft water 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1 oz. of tartaric acid, with the rind of a lemon, or 4 large lemons, sliced, and 2 ozs. of ginger powder. Let it simmer slowly to extract the ginger; set and work it as any other beer; bottle it in pint or half-pint bottles. Great care should be taken in cleaning stone bottles; never let lead drops be used to clean any kind, as many lives have been lost by it. Get a bit of cane or pliant wood; split it according to its thickness in four, six, or eight; tie it as a brush; hold the points together till it is put into the neck of the bottle. By using it properly it will scrape out every- thing foul. Imperial Pop is made by mixing cream of tartar, 3 ozs.; ginger, 1 oz.; white sugar, 1^ lb.; lemon-juice, 1 oz.; water, H gallon; yeast, 1 oz. Bottle, and tie down the corks. BEER, POTATO. Dr. Hare, having ob- served that there is a strong analogy between the saccharine matter of the sweet potato and molasses, or the saccharum of malt, was in- duced to boil a wort of 1,000° specific gravity, with a proportionate quantity of hops, for the space of two hours. It was then cooled to about 56° and yeast added. As far as he could judge the phenomena of the fermentation and the resulting liquor were precisely the same as if malt had been used. The wort was kept in a warm place until the temperature was 85°rahr., and the fall of the head showed the fermentation to be sufficient. Yeast subsequently rose, which was removed by a spoon. By refrigeration a further quantity of yeast was precipitated, from which the liquor being decanted became tolerably fine for new beer, and in flavour exactly like thatBEE [ 103 ] BEE made from malt. Dr. Hare has computed that 5 bushels of potatoes would produce as much wort as 3 bushels of malt. In malt liquors 6 lbs. of sugar is esteemed equal in strength, and 1 lb. of coriander seed, in intoxicating power to 1 bushel of malt. The sugar employed is burnt to colour the beer in- stead of brown malt, but it has been proposed to use roasted coffee for this purpose. It is only necessary to malt one third of the corn, as this portion will convert the other into its own nature during the process. Quassia is employed instead of hops as the bitter, but as this does not precipitate the mucilage, the beer soon grows muddy, unless kept very cool. When strong beer is reduced by adding small beer, publicans usually add molasses to enable it to form a head, and extract of gentian to keep up the flavour.—[Gray.) Heading foe Beer is made of equal weights of alum and copperas. See Ale. Mum is liquor brewed from wheat malt. BEER, ROPINESS IN, usually arises from neglecting to cleanse thoroughly the casks pre- viously to barreling. When it occurs, a handful of bean-flour and half that quantity of salt, mixed together and stirred into the liquor, are said to remove the ill property; bnt we have usually found time alone effected the cure. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (1). Boil one peck of wheat-bran in 6 gallons of soft water till the bran sinks; strain, and have ready an extract of gentian, which may be put in by taste—those that prefer hops may use them by boiling them in it or by using their extract; when it comes to the proper heat put in 3 lbs. of treacle, and 2 or 3 spoonsful of yeast, according to its strength; whisk the liquor well to melt the treacle, which readily augments the fermenta- tion by the admission of air should the yeast be slow. Any herbs may be introduced into the boiler, antiscorbutic, warming, and invigorating, or such as may be necessary for those who are to use the beer. It must be barreled imme- diately, and when the fermentation ceases, bung it close; it will be ready in a few days. 11 ought to be bottled, or at least part of it, as in hot weather it may get flat or acid. A little carbonate of soda will correct this entirely at the time of drinking. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (2). A quarter of a bushel of malt, 2 lbs. of treacle, and 4 ozs. of hops. This will make 13 gallons of good beer, which will not cost a penny a quart, and less if gentian be used. This beer will not keep long. If bottled, put a raisin or a bit of sugar into each bottle. Servants do not attend properly to cleaning bottles for small beer, nor to boiling the corks, which is the cause of not only bad beer, but of much loss. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (3). Take 26 gallons of water, 1 bushel of malt, with 4 lbs. of coarse brown sugar, and 1 lb. of hops. If this is carefully managed it will make the beer as good as if two bushels of malt had been used. This beer will keep well. If in small establishments a cask may not be exactly fitted to these proportions, let the quantities be re- duced. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (4). Twenty gallons may also be made of good small beer from 1 bushel of malt and | lb. of hops. Gen- tian is more stomachic, less heady, and more economical. Boil the hops in a bag, and they will nearly do again for a fresh brewing. Those who like their beer brown may put in a bit of Spanish liquorice. A gallon of water ought to be allowed for waste, which may be avoided, as it is often occasioned from some small utensil being wanted. BEER, SPRUCE (1). Mix 7 lbs. of molasses in 4 gallons of boiling water and 4 gallons of cold, or water at 60°; put in 3 table-spoonsful of spruce essence; whisk it well with 3 table- spoonsful of yeast; cask or cover it close up with a double blanket; bottle it when the work- ing ceases, and wire or tie it up with pack- thread, and put it in a cool cellar. To obtain Spruce boil the sprigs of Scotch fir BEER, SPRUCE (2). This beverage is an excellent antiscorbutic, and in summer is very refreshing. The best mode of making it is as follows:—Pour 8 gallons of cold water into a barrel, and then add the same quantity of boil- ing water, with 12 lbs. of molasses and about J lb. of the essence of spruce. On its becoming cooler, put in i pint of good ale yeast; stir the whole well, or roll the barrel about, and then leave it with the bung out for two or three days; after which bottle the liquor, and wire the corks for use. If spruce beer is made from the branches or cones, they must be boiled two hours; after which the liquor is to be strained in a barrel, and the molasses and yeast added as already directed. Spruce beer should be bottled in stone bottles, and drank immediately on being opened. BEER, SPRUCE (White) (1), is thus made: —For a cask of 6 gallons mix ^ib. of the essence of spi'uce, 7 lbs. olf loaf sugar, made into a clari- fied syrup, and about 1|- gallon of hot water. When sufficiently stirred and incorporated, put it into the cask, and fill it nearly with cold water; then add about J pint of good yeast; shake the vessel well, and let it work three or four days; after which bung it up. In a few days it may be bottled off, and in about a week more it will be fit for use. To give it transparency, add 1 oz. of isinglass, first dissolved in some of the warm liquor or cider. In proportion to the[ 104 ] BEE BEL coldness of the weather the quantity of yeast should be increased. In warm weather little fermentation is required. BEEE, SPRUCE (White) (2), is made by infusing in 10 gallons of water, sugar, 6 lbs.; essence of spruce, 6 ozs.; and adding yeast. Bottle immediately in ^ pints. For brown spruce beer, use treacle instead of sugar. BEER, SUGAR. Boil lib. of the com- monest but sound sugar in 3 gallons of soft water, and put in it a sufficient quantity of the extract of gentian; when it cools, work it as other beers. According to the quantity made, half or two thh'ds may be bottled, and the re- mainder drunk from the cask. BEER, TABLE, is made of very pale malt, 12 quarters, mashed at three times with 46, 32, and 32 barrels of water , then boiled with 62 lbs. 01 hops ; set with 114 lbs. of yeast; cleansed by the yeast head being beaten in and let work out. The produce is 100 ban-els, or 4 gallons to each gallon of malt. BEER, TAPPING. Always have the beer- cock well washed before you put it into the cask, and only use wood to drive it in with; for if you take anything which is iron for that purpose, you will most likely break the cock in so doing. Have the vent-peg loose while you tap it, if it has not been loosened for some time before ; this will prevent its flying about. If the cock goes hard, put a little sweet oil to it, which will make it turn easily; and wrap some paper round it to make it fit properly, so that the beer shall not leak out. When it requires tilting, let it be done while it is running; this will prevent it getting thick. If you cannot do it yourself, have a person to assist you. Of course you will have a proper tilt for that purpose. Barlow's is a very good tilting-stand. BEER, TREACLE (1), is made of hops, IJlb., boiled with 36 gallons of water for an hour; add 14lbs. of treacle and a little yeast. Eerment and bottle. BEER, TREACLE (2). To 2 quarts of boil- ing water add lib. of treacle or molasses; stir these together till they are well mixed; then put in 6 or 8 quarts of cold water and a tea- cupful of yeast. Put the whole into a clean cask, cover it with a coarse cloth two or three times doubled, and in two or three days it will be fit for use. It may be also bottled, and at the second or third time of making the bottom of the first beer will serve for yeast. If made in a large quantity, or intended for keeping, a handful of hops and another of malt should be put in for it to feed on, and when done it is to be stopped up close. Some people add thereto raisins, bran, wormwood, spices, and any fruit that may be in season. BEER, TREACLE (3). To 8 quarts of boiling water put 1 lb. of treacle, J oz. of ginger, and 2 bay leaves. Boil the whole for a quarter of an hour, and, when cool, work it with yeast in the same way as other beer, A little yeast spread on a piece of toast and put into the liquid before it is cold, will excite a fermentation; and when it has done working it may be bottled or barreled, according to the quantity requii'ed for immediate use. If wanted to keep, a small bit of gentian root, with or without a little lemon or orange-peel, may be boiled in the liquor, which will give it an agreeable taste. BEET: To Keep These should have the tops cut off close, and the rough earth cleaned away, and then be kept in a dry place. Lay a bed of dry sand upon the floor about 3 inches thick; put the roots on it close together, the top of one next to the bottom of the other, and so on. Cover the first layer with sand 2 inches thick, and then another layer, and go on in the same manner with the rest, placing some dry straw over the whole. BEET, BOILED. These are dressed like Pickled Beet, but without being scraped or cut till after they are boiled, which will take from one hour and a half to three hours. Like pars- nips, they are sent to table with salt fish, or boiled beef and pork. Beet-root is usually used as a garnish or salad ; but it possesses claims of greater consequence, and would, if baked, afford a most nutritious food. As such it is used almost in every other part of Em'ope, especially in Italy, where beet-roots are called about the streets twice a day, and purchased by all classes of people. BEET, PICKLED. Boil them gently till thi'ee-parts done; then take them out, and, when a little cooled, peel and cut them in slices about half an inch thick. Pour on them cold vinegar in which pepper and allspice have been boiled. BEET SOUP. Boil till tender two roots of beet, and rub off the sldn with a coarse towel; mince them fine, as also 2 or 3 onions; add this to 5 pints of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather thick, then stir in 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of vinegar and 1 table-spoonful of brown sugar; let it boil, and throw in some fricandellans made up in the form of corks and rolled in flour. BEETLES, BLACK. It is said that the powder of black hellebore root, mixed with flour into a paste and made into pills, if put down where these vermin frequent, is eaten by them and destroj'S them. We have found Chase's beetle poison quite effective. BELLADONNA derives its name from the juice of the berries being used by Italian ladies to render their faces pale. It is known, commonly as deadly nightshade [Atropa bella- donna), and its active principle is called atropina.BER BEN [ 105 ] It is a powerful sedative and narcotic, botli as an internal medicine and as an external appli- cation ; in this latter form it alleviates local pains very effectually, but is liable to affect the nervous system. The recent leaves, powdered and made into an ointment with an equal weight of lard, will be found an efficient form for many- purposes. Every part of the plant is poisonous, and the berries from their beautiful appearance have often tempted the unwary. The leaves furnish the most convenient and powerful form of exhibition. Externally they may be used as a poultice; internally, 1 grain of the dry leaves, powdered, and gradually increased to 10 or 12 grains, or the leaves may be infused in boil- ing water in the proportion of 4 grains to 2 ozs. fluid, which may be given as a dose. A little of this infusion dropped into the eye permanently dilates the pupil, for which purpose it has been successfully applied previous to an operation for the cataract. The extract of this plant, since its active principle is fixed, ought to possess activity; but as it occurs in commerce it is found to be very uncertain and variable — a circumstance which entirely depends upon the manner in which it has been prepared. An overdose of belladonna produces the most dis- tressing and alarming symptoms, and so para- lysing is its influence, that vomiting can be hardly excited by the strongest doses of tartarised antimony. In such cases vinegar will be found the best antidote, or the affusion of cold water over the surface of the body, after the application of which, emetics are more likely to perform their duty. BEN, OIL OF, is obtained by pressing the seeds of Moringa aptera, a tree native of the tropics. Perfumers employ it as the basis of various scents, because it is so slow in becoming rancid; and as it does not freeze, except at very low temperatures, watchmakers employ it for oiling clocks and watches. BENTON SAUCE. Grate or scrape some horseradish very fine ; add thereto a little made- mustard, pounded white sugar, and four large spoonsful of vinegar. Serve it up in a tureen. This sauce is good with hot or cold roast beef. BENTON TEA-CAKES. Rub into 1 lb. of flour 6 ozs. of butter and 3 spoonsful of yeast, and make into a paste with new milk. Make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. BENZOIN, or, as it is popularly called, gum benjamin, is a resin obtained from a shrub, native of Sumatra, called Styrax henzoni, or benzoin laurel. It is very fragrant, especially when burnt, and, consequently, is used in forming fumigating pastilles. Its most active constituent is benzoic acid, commonly called flowers of benjamin, being in the form of white, soft, snow-like crystals. These, as well as the gum, have been employed to promote expecto- ration, and are still used in making paregoric elixir. The tinctm-e of benzoin has been em- ployed as a cosmetic to remove pimples and redness from the face. This tincture dropped into water renders it milky, and water so treated has been sold as a cosmetic under the name of virgin's milk. BERFRO CAKES. See Aberfrau. BERGAMOT, ESSENCE OF, is obtained both by pressure and distillation from the fresh rind of a species of citron. Citrus bergamia. The rind, deprived of the pulp it incloses, dried, and then moistened with water, is pressed into moulds, in Italy, so as to form fancy boxes, which retain much of the fresh fragrance of the bergamot, and are used for holding lozenges and other sweetmeats. A fragrant water is distilled from the peel as follows:—Take the rind of 3 bergamots, 1 gallon of spirit of wine, and 4 pints of water. Distil off a gallon by a water- bath, and add a sufficient quantity of refined white sugar. Or, take of the essence of berga- mot, 3^ drachms ; spirit of wine, 3 pints ; and of sal ammoniac, 1 drachm. Distil off' 3 pints in a similar manner. BERLIN WOOL. The Countess of Wilton, in her "Art of Needlework," gives the following account of the rise and progress of working with Berlin wool:—The style of modern em- broidery, now so fashionable, from the Berlin patterns, dates from the commencement of the present century. About the year 1804—5, a printseller in Berlin,named Philipson, published the fii'st coloured design, on checked paper, for needlework. In 1810 Madame Wittich, who, being a very accomplished embroideress, per- ceived the great extension of which this branch of trade was capable, induct her husband, a book and printseller of Berlin, to engage in it with spirit. From that period the trade has gone on rapidly increasing, though within the last six years the progression has been infi- nitely more rapid than it had previously been, owing to the number of new publishers who have engaged in the trade. By leading houses up to the commencement of the year 1840, there have been no less than 14,000 copper- plate designs published. At first these patterns were chiefly copied in silk, then in beads, and lastly in dyed wools; the latter more especially, since the Germans have themselves succeet-ed in producing those beautiful "zephyr" yarns known in this country as the Berlin wools. These yarns, however, are only dyed in Berlin, being manufactured at Gotha. It is not many years since the Germans drew all their fine woollen yarns from this country: now they are the exporters, and probably will so remain, what- ever be the qualitij of the wool produced inBER BER [ 106 ] England, until the art of dyeing be as well un- derstood and as scientilically practised. Of the 14,000 Berlin patterns which have been published, scarcely one-half are moderately good, and all the best which they have pro- duced latterly are copied from English and French prints. Contemplating the improve- ment that will probably ere long take place in these patterns, needlework may be said to be yet in its infancy. The improvement, however, must not be confined to the Berlin designers; the taste of the consumer, the public taste must also advance before needlework can assume that approximation to art which is so desirable, and not perhaps now, with modern facilities, difficult of attainment. Hitherto the chief anxiety seems to have been to produce a glare of colour, rather than that subdued but beautiful effect which makes of every piece issuing from the Gobelins a perfect picture, wrought by different means, it is true, but with the very same materials. In working with Berlin wool most patterns may be done in the common sampler stitch, but fruit and flowers are best worked in tent stitch, for this stitch is the smallest, and, there- fore, facilitates the blending of the colours. One, two, or three threads are used, according to the fineness or coarseness of the canvass. The stitches are made angularly across two threads, one each way, and sloping in the same direction. The canvass must be put upon the frame very evenly, otherwise the pattern will appear slanting. For the following directions we are indebted to an excellent little book, entitled " The Fancy Needlework Instructor," by Mrs. Savage :—The first and principal thing to be observed before commencing this work is to strain the canvass firmly and quite square in the frame, it being almost impossible to execute it well if it is allowed to be loose; the work in that case will be uneven and lumpy, parts where many shades are crowded together being quite raised, standing out in bas- relief from the surface, and having the appear- ance of blotches on what may otherwise be faultless. It is, moreover, apt to draw on one side, and unless mounted on woodwork, where it can be tightly strained, would have a dis- torted appearance, more especially if the piece is composed of figures. Having prepared the canvass as directed, begin at the top, so that by working downwards you may cover up the work as it pi'oceeds ; it will thei'eby be secured from the dust that some wools retain in a great de- gree, which would inevitably soil the light tints and shades of white. Let all the stitches lay from left to right, taking care that they lie pre- cisely the same way at the back. In beginning with every fresh piece of wool., put the needle through on the right side, six or ten threads from the stitch you first made, leaving the knot in front, which must be cut off when the work has secured the end. Observe the same ia finishing with a thread. If you are working on white silk canvass, do not pass the wool through any part that will not be covered, as when it is lined it will appear soiled; and be particular in fastening off, that the wool may not intersect the work at the back, thereby rendeiing the ground very indistinct. If the work is grounded in tent stitch, begin at the farthest stitch on the right; bringing the wool below the thread, and passing it upwards to the right, and so on to the end of the row, always finishing one row before another is begun. Cross stitch. This very useful stitch, from the facility with \(-hich it is executed by the tiny fingers of the little child to the trembling hand of declining age, assisted as it has been by the invention of Penelope canvass, and being, more- over, easily accomplished on the hand without a frame, is deservedly the favourite of all; it is also more durable than tent stitch, and stands unrivalled for all kinds of coarse work, as large ottomans, friendship carpets, hearth-rugs, pede cloths, &c. In working, tie a knot in the end of the wool, pass it through the canvass six or eight threads from where you commence, then bring the needle up I I I I I at (a), pass down at (b), bring it up again ~ at (c), and pass it - down at (d) ; fasten - off by bringing the _ end of the wool _ six or eight threads from the last stitch, and secure it with the work as you proceed. In grounding, begin at the farthest stitch to the right, crossing the canvass from (a) to (b) the whole length of the work, and return by crossing from (c) to (n). Cross stitch on cloth, with the threads of the canvass withdrawn. This is often done to avoid the tediousness of grounding, and when executed with skill has a rich and pleasing effect. The pattern should be composed of flowers, birds, or arabesque, alone or combined. Landscapes, quadrupeds, or the human figure rarely look so well as when worked on canvass only, it being impossible to withdraw the threads from a mass of close work, and when they are left in it has a very stiff and harsh appearance The directions for worldng the stitch in nowise differ from cross stitch on canvass. Care must be taken in work- ing the stems of flowers, or single lines in any part, to put the needle straight through, and not in a slanting direction, or the stitches will be very irregular, and when the work is mounted the cloth will show between, which is a great defect. In framing, choose yom' canvass one I l_[ 107 ] BET BER incli larger than the exact size of the work, stretch it tightly and evenly in the frame, then tack the cloth smoothly and firmly underneath, the face of the cloth being towards the canvass, and the nap running towards the front edge of the work. In working on a light cloth do not pass the wool through any part that will not be covered with the pattern. Gobelin, or tapestry stitch. This very beauti- ful style of work, in imitation of the inimitable Gobelins, is not produced so often as we would wish, its great merit demanding for it a more prominent position in the scale of fancy needle- work than it now occupies. When executed by an artistic hand it meets with universal appro- bation, but we presume that the care and skill required in its production have been the great bar to its universality. It is worked by crossing two threads in height and one in breadth, work- ing two stitches for every one in the Berlin patterns; but in working on a drawn pattern the needlewoman would exercise her own judg- ment in the arrangement of the shades, without regard to the number of stitches in the breadth, though in depth they must be perfectly regular. It must not be attempted out of a frame, nor should it be worked on canvass coarser than twenty-five threads to the inch, or the threads will be exposed between the rows. Short lengths of wool should be taken in the needle, which should be divested of all irregularities. The knots must be kept on the right side, and in a line with the stitch you are working. When well executed the back will be as even as the face, and present an appearance almost similar. Raised work. This work is more light and elegant when worked on white silk canvass. If executed on cotton canvass and grounded, let all the cross stitch be done first, and the canvass be very evenly and firmly stretched in a frame, a piece of fine holland being tacked over the parts intended to be raised. If the figure to be raised be a bird, and it counts eighty stitches or the like from the crown to the tip of the tail, cut that number of slips of card a quarter or three- eights of an inch wide, taking care that they are quite long enough for the width of the bird. Begin with single Gorman wool by putting the needle from the under side, on the left of the first thread and two threads from the top; then take one of your card meshes in the left hand, hold it edgeways on the upper side of your wool, and pass the needle through on the right of the thread in the same way that you would work the Gobelin stitch: this will secure your mesh in its place. Now continue the whole row the same way, working two stitches over the mesh for every one on the Berlin pattern, precisely the same way that the Gobelin stitch is done. Now take the second mesh and work as before, and so on till the whole is finished, leaving all the meshes in the work. Apply a weak solution of gum arabic at the back, and when it is dry take a sharp penknife and release them all, by insert- ing the point at the end of every row and pass- ing it quickly along the whole length; then, with a pair of sharp-pointed scissors, reduce the edges and depths of the shadows, and smooth the surface generally. Glass eyes must be in- serted in all raised figures, as they cannot be executed effectively in wool. Raised work is often done over a steel mesh with a sharp blade, which is attached to the end, when it is covered with stitches, and drawn through the whole, thereby cutting the work even as it proceeds Each stitch is secured in the same way that urn rugs were formerly fringed, but this method is very tedious and unnecessary (unless it is per- formed on the hand), as when the work is shorn the wool expands, and its fibres so intermingle that there is not the least fear of its ever coming out; in fact it is rendered firmer than otherwise by use. Patterns worked with embroidery chenille in the Gobelin tapestry stitch are quite equal in effect to flat-raised work, and have the merit of being more speedily executed. BETONY, WOOD, called by botanists Be- toriica officinalis, was once highly prized as a medical plant. The leaves and tops of the betony have an agreeable but weak smell: to the taste they discover a slight warmth, accom- panied with some degree of astringency and bitterness. They yield very little essential oil, insomuch that only a few drops can be obtained from a large quantity of the herb. Betony, like many other plants formerly in great me- dical estimation, is at this time almost entirely disregarded. Antouius Musa, physician to the Emperor Augustus, filled a whole volume by enumerating its virtues, stating it as a remedy for no less than forty-seven disorders ; and hence in Italy arose this proverbial compliment, " You have more virtues than betony." Simon PauUi also ascribes to it powers, which may be con- sidered as rather miraculous than natural, and which did not seem to require contradiction from the experiments of Alston. Modern writers do not allow the betony to possess any consider- able efl&cacy: Scopoli, indeed, says that he ex- perienced its cephalic and corroborant effects; but its sensible qualities show it to be more inert than most of the other verticillatse. Both this plant and eyebright entered into the com- position of Rowleij's British herb tobacco and siivff. Tanners have employed this plant as a substitute for oak bark ; and, according to Dam- bourney, the leaves and branches of the betony, when in blossom, may be used for dyeing wool of a permanent dark-brown colour, when pre- viously dressed in a weak solution of bismuth.C 108 ] BIL 3HA The leaves and flowers have a bitterish taste, accompanied with a weak aromatic flavour. They are mild corroborants, and when infused or gently boiled the decoction may be drunk as tea. A strong tincture made in rectified spirit has proved beneficial in laxity and debility, when taken in small, repeated doses. It is remarkable that the roots of this plant greatly differ in quality from the other parts ; the former are bitter, nauseous, and, like the roots of helle- bore, occasion violent diarrhoea when taken in a small dose. It is further affirmed that betony affects those who gather any quantity of its leaves and flowers with a disorder resembling the effects of intoxication. BHAURTA is a dish of vegetables much used in India, being mashed potatoes, seasoned with capsicums and onions, shaped in a mould, and served hot to table. BILBERRY. See Whortlebeery. BILBOQUET FRITTERS. Break 5 eggs into two handsful of fine flour, with milk enough to make it assimilate with the rest; then add salt, and work it again. When the batter is well made, put in a tea-spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, the same quantity of grated lemon-peel, and •J oz. of candied citron, cut small. Rub a pan with butter, and put in the paste. Set it over a slow fire, and when baked take out the paste, and lay it on a dish. Place another stewpan on the fire, with a good deal of lard, and when it boils, cut the paste to the size of your finger and notch it across each end, which will cause it to rise and be hollow, so as to have a pleasing effect. Great care must be taken that they do not rise too much. When done, sift sugar on a warm dish, and shake some over the fritters. BILIOUS ATTACKS, as they are commonly called, arise more often from a deficiency than from an excess of bile. In other words, such attacks are fits of indigestion, and are occa- sioned, not only by eating and drinking what the stomach cannot digest, but by over-exertion and anxiety. Flatulence, headache, nausea, pal- jiitation of the heart, irritability of temper, pros- tration of spirits and strength, are the usual symptoms. In the first j^lace, abstinence should be strictly observed, not merely in the com- mencement, Avhen indeed there is no great merit in it, from the loathing of food which is com- monly present, but also in the subsequent stages, when the return of- appetite indicates the com- mencing restoration of the powers of the stomach. Premature indulgence at this period is often attended with the worst consequences, and in variably tends to prolong the duration of the complaint. If there be much uneasiness and dis tress felt at the stomach without actual vomit- ing, or if that organ be loaded with food, exces- sive in quantity and improper in quality, it will be generally advisable to employ an emetic of the following kind :—Take powder of ipecac- uanha, 15 gi-ains; tartarised antimony, 1 grain. To be taken in warm water. Or, let a table- spoonful of antimonial wine be taken eveiy ten minutes until it operates. If vomiting has already taken place, these medicines will of course be unnecessary; it is to be encouraged in moderation, by drinking occasionally some luke- warm water. Vomiting, however, should not be allowed to continue too long; the only object is to empty the stomach and upper part of the intestines, and anj'thing which goes much far- ther than this is both injurious and unnecessary. It often happens that, after the contents of the stomach have been fully evacuated, that organ remains in a very irritable state, and vomiting continues, either spontaneously or immediately upon swallowing anything, however mild or small in quantity. This is injurious, and should not be promoted, but checked. If the vomiting be connected with much pain at the stomach and with heartburn, there is nothing so good as a glass of water, as hot as it can be drank; lukewarm water promotes vomiting, hot water checks it. If there be less pain, but more fever, and a burning heat in the skin, advantage will often be derived from sipping cold water, not taking more than a table-spoonful at a time. If the vomiting be obstinate, and if the pit of the stomach be tumid and tender to the touch, there is reason to suspect the existence of inflamma- tion of the stomach, and in this case more bene- fit will be derived from the application of four or six leeches than from anything that could be devised. A piece of linen cloth dipped in laudanum, and applied externally, m many instances afford relief when all other measures have failed. Or, the following prescription may be employed:—Take of sub-carbonate of potash, 15 gi'ains ; camphor mixture, 1 oz. Mix, and let the draught be tt-ken in a state of efferves- cence, from the addition of | oz. of lemon-juice, and repeat it every three or four hours, as occa- sion may be. The next step to be taken is to evacuate the contents of the bowels, if they be not already relaxed. If there be purging, this, like the vomiting, should be favoured in the first instance; and there is less occasion for anxiety about its continuance, as it is rarely attended with serious consequences. For this purpose the patient should drink freely of mild diluents, such as tea, gruel, barley water, &c., -and should abstain from solid food of every kind The most suitable nourishment is weak broth. If the bowels are costive, or inclined to be so. after the operation of the emetic, or the cessation of spontaneous vomiting, a pui'gative should be given, its strength being proportioned to the habit of the patient and other circumstances.BIL BIN [ 109 ] The following is sufficiently acti-ve for the ma- jority of cases :—Take of calomel, 3 grains ; con- serve of roses, enough to make a pill, which is to he taken at hedtime, and succeeded in the morning by the following draught:—Take of infusion of senna, 12 drachms ; Epsom salts, or tartrate of potash, 4 drachms ; tincture of jalap, 2 drachms. Or, the following pills :—Take of compound extract of colocynth, 1 scruple ; Ve- netian soap, 5 grains; calomel, 3 grains. Mix, and divide into 8 pills, of which let 2 be taken every four hours until they operate. Previous to and during the operation of the purgative medicine, other means may be em- ployed to diminish the febrile heat of the skin. If it be very great much advantage will be derived from sponging the face, hands, arms, and upper part of the body, with vinegar and water, and from the internal use of vegetable acids, as oranges, lemons, currants, &c. Certain medicines likewise will materially contribute to effect the object in view, such as this :—Take of Mindererus's spirit and camphor mixture, each 6 drachms ; antimonial wine, 30 drops. Mix, and make a draught, to be taken four or five times a day. Or, this :—Take of distilled watei", 6 ozs.; nitrate of potash, 1 drachm; liquor of tartarised antimony, 4 drachms ; liquor of car- bonate of ammonia, 3 drachms ; syrup of saffron, 2 drachms. Make a mixture, and let 2 table- spoonsful be taken every three or four hours. The length of time during which these means must be persevered in, and the frequency of their repetition, can only be determined by the particular circumstances of each individual case. We should, however, be cautious of abandoning their use at too early a period ; and in all cases it will be advisable to continue for some time to take gentle aperient medicines at regular intervals, such as rhubarb and magnesia, castor oil, Epsom or Glauber's salts, or small doses of any of the opening medicines above recom- mended. A fair trial of these medicines, in com- bination with regular exercise, and light animal diet, will seldom fail to remove all symptoms of complaint, when of recent occurrence, A failure will generally be found attributable to a want of restraint and self-command, or of proper assiduity and perseverance on the part of the patient, which lead him to indulge in an im- proper degree, or to stop short the moment when he was about to reap all the advantage of the plan he had pursued. When bilious disorders are chronic, or, in other words, of long standing, it .cannot reason- ably be expected that they should yield to the same means, or, in the same period of time, to the means most likely to nroduce relief. The approaches of the disease Lave been gradual, and almost unperceived ; so also must the cure proceed. Attempts to hasten recovery, by having recourse to violent or active measures, would not only prove void of utility, but would, on the contrary, aggravate the evils they were intended to remedy. Our motto here should be " slow, but sure," nor must the patient, de- spond because his improvement is not sudden and clearly marked; let him acquire confidence by contrasting the slowness of his recovery with the gradual and insensible, but yet marked man- ner in which his complaint formerly proceeded. In these cases, the first step is to check the progress of disease; the cure has already com- menced when that has ceased to advance. BILIOUS COLIC. The symptoms are violent and copious bilious vomiting and purg- ing, together with exquisite pain in the intes- tines. The pulse is small, and sometimes unequal. Much thirst and heat are followed by cold sweats. The disease is also attended with inflation, thirst, anxiety, spasms, faint- ings, and urgent depression of the strength and spirits. The hurtful powers are such as errors in diet; abuse of fermented or spirituous liquor; intense heat, as occasioning r-edundancy of bile, and strong mental emotions. This disease may be known from other intestinal evacuations by the enormous quantity of the fluids discharged, and by the dark complexion they assume. When the attack is violent, bilious colic sometimes proves fatal in the space cf a day. Should the symptoms be less urgent, or continue for eight- and forty hours, the termination is generally favourable. Tokens of danger are repeated faintiugs, cold sweats, hiccoughs, and violent spasmodic contraction of the muscles. Conious draughts of chicken broth, beef tea, gruel, or warm water, should instantly be administered. These liquids may also be injected as clysters. Negus or spirit sufficiently diluted is suitable drink. As soon as the strength will admit, the more solid articles of nutritious diet may be had recourse to. The temperature should be properly regulated. For the benefit of air, the person afflicted may be placed in an apartment sufficiently spacious. He should be kept free from much motion. The room may be somewhat darkened. The utmost stillness ought to be preserved. Hope, fortitude, and the energy of the mind, must be supported. Simple cordials are proper, together with opi- ates, warm bathing, and active fomentation to the belly. BILL OF FAKE. See Dinners—Autumn, SpRiNrr, Summer, Winter. BINDING (in Dressmaking). To make plain-binding, you must cut a strip of silk, on the bias, of twice the width you want for yonr binding. ' Double it, and run it on the right side of your flounce or cuff, keeping the rawBIR BIR [ 110 3 edge of your binding to tbe raw edge of your flounce. Then turn the binding over, and fell it down on the wrong side, taking care to let no stitches be seen below the run on the right side. The reason why this binding is made double is that it so stands off with a handsome roundness. This bindmg is most used for bows and flounces, and other light trimmings ; while the French hem suits better for finishing a dress at the bottom, or for edging a cape, or the front of a plain pelisse. French hem is made like plain-binding, except that it has a cord at the upper edge. This cord is run on, on the right side of the article to be trimmed, and the strip is then turned over, and felled down at the back. BIRCH TREE {Betula alba). The wood of the birch is of a very extensive use. Professor Pallas informs us that the Tartars cover their huts with its bark, and the navigators of the Volga construct of it portable boats, cradles, &c. It is also used in fumigations to purify a vitiated atmosphere. The Laplanders cut the outer bark into thongs, of which they manu' facture ropes, baskets, and other utensils, and it even forms some part of their wearing apparel: it is also used in dyeing; and, as a substitute for oak-bark, in tanning. The Swedish house- wives employ this bark, after burning it to a certain degree, as a cement for broken china or earthenware. When boiled with alum it affords a dye of a dark red colour. Dambourney as- serts that the bark is better for tanning, when dried, than in a fresh state. For this purpose it is cut into small pieces, and boiled for half an hour in pure water, and the prepared hides are steeped in it while lukewarm. The ley is again boiled on the two following days, and the steeping of the leather as often repeated, after which it is suspended to dry in the air. Leather thus prepared is said to be waterproof. The leaves of the birch give a yellowish colour to wool which has been previously prepared with alum. Those collected in the spring, however, are not so proper for dyeing as the autumnal leaves, because the former produce a greenish tinge, but the latter afford a beautiful yellow colour. They have also been used in the dropsy, itch, &c., either applied externally or in de- coctions taken by the mouth. The fungus which grows on the trunk of the birch tree is a very good styptic i and when boiled in water, beaten, and dried in an oven, it makes excellent touchwood. Birch twigs are used for fishing- rods and brooms, as well as by bird-catchers, who smear them with birdlime. BIRCH WINE was formerly in great repute as a remedy for nephritic disorders, but is dis- used in modern practice. As it is a rich cordial, and, according to Dr. Needham, an excellent remedy for consumption and the scurvy, we shall acquaint our readers with the method of preparing it, though we have no experience of its medicinal powers. The juice or sap of the burch tree should be extracted about the begin- ning of March, when the buds begin to swell, and before they have opened their leaves. An incision or hole must be made in the trunk, almost as deep as the pith, under some branch of a well-spreading tree, on its south-western side, and about one foot above the ground : a hollow tube should then be fitted to the aper- ture, through which the sap will flow similar to distillation. On applying a little mould to the orifice the wound will heal, and the bark after- wards close. Some persons are of opinion that the sap drawn from the trunk of the tree is not so pure as that obtained from its higher branches. To prevent this juice from fermenting till a suf- ficient quantity is procured, the bottles in which it is collected ought to be immediately stopped. One of the best methods for making birch wine is as follows :—To every gallon of the sap add 1 pint of honey or ] lb. of sugar, stir the whole together, and boil it for an hour with a few cloves and a little lemon-peel; at the same time care- fully skim off the rising impurities. When cool a few spoonsful of new ale should be added, to induce a proper degree of fermentation ; and, after the yeast has settled, the wine should be bottled, corked tightly, and kept for use. If this liquor be prepared with proper attention, it becomes so strong that the common stone bottles, into which it is decanted, frequently burst. Another recipe is a? follows :—The season for procuring the liquor from the birch trees is the beginning of March while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for when the sap is exuding, and the leaves appear, the juice, by being long digested in the bark, grows thick and coloured, which before was white and clear. The method of procuring the juice is by boring holes in the body of the trees, and putting in fossets, which are commonly made of the branches of elder, the pith being taken out. You may, with- out hurting the tree, if large, tap it in several places, four or five at a time, and by that means save from a good many trees several gallons every day; if you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops must be corked close, and rosined or waxed. However, make use of it as soon as you can. Take the sap and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time. To every gallon of liquor put 4 lbs. of good sugar and the thin peel of a lemon; boil it afterwards half an hour, skimming it well; pour it into a clean tub, and, when it is almost cold, set it to work with yeast spread upon a taast; let it stand five or sk days, stiiTiug it[ 111 ] BIR BIR often; then take such a cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match, dipped in brimstone, and throw it into the cask; stop it close till the match is extinguished. Tun your wine; put the bung in lightly till you find it has done work- ing ; stop it close, and keep it in three months ; then bottle it off. You may make your birch wine with raisins in this manner:—To 1 hogs- head of birch sap take 4 cwt. of Malaga raisins; pick them clean from the stalks, and cut them small; then boil the birch liquor for one hour at least, skim it well, and let it stand till it is no warmer than milk; then put in the raisins, and let it stand closely covered, stirring it well four or five times every day. Boil all the stalks in a gallon or two of birch liquor, which, added to the other when almost cold, will give it an agreeable roughness. Let it stand ten days, then put it in a cool cellar, and when it has done hissing in the vessel, stop it up close. It must stand at least nine months before it is bottled. BIRDLIME is a viscid matter used for catching birds. There are different ways of preparing this substance, but it is generally made of holly bark, which is boiled ten or twelve hours, and when its green rind is separated it is covered up in a moist place to stand for a fortnight. It is afterwards reduced to a tough paste, and washed in a running stream till no impurities appear. Next, it is suffered to fer- ment for four or five days, during which it must be frequently skimmed. Afterwards it is mixed over the fire with a third part of nut oil or thin grease, and thus rendered fit for use. The German method of preparing birdlime is by putting about 2 lbs. of linseed oil into a pot, to simmer upon the fire for some time, after which it is taken off, and lighted with a match. In this state of inflammation it continues about two hours, when half the quantity will be con- sumed. By dipping, from time to time, a stick into the oil, and trjdng the matter between the fingers, its proper glutinous consistence may be easily ascertained; on which the pot is covered, and the flame extinguished. Water Biedlime may be prepared as fol- lows :—Take 1 lb. of strong and good ordinary birdlime, wash it thoroughly in spring water till it becomes perfectly soft; next beat it well that the water may be entirely separated; then dry it, put it into an earthen pipkin, and add to it as much capon or goose grease as will render it fluid. In this state of the preparation add 2 spoonsful of strong vinegar, 1 spoonful of oil, and a small quantity of Venice turpentine. Let the whole boil for a few minutes over a moderate fire, stirring it during that process. Then talie it off, but, previous to using it, warm it, and cover the twigs with it in every direction. This is the best birdlime for snipes, or such birds as frequent marshy places. The proper method of using birdlime is to cut down the principal branch of a tree, the twigs of which are straight, long, and smooth. The willow and birch are the best for this pur- pose. After the superfluous shoots have been lopped, and the twigs cleaned, they must be uniformly covered with the birdlime to within four inches of the bottom, but the main stem should not be touched by this matter. Great care is required in laying it on properly; for if too thick it will alarm the birds, and prevent their approach, and if too small a quantity be applied it will not hold them when they settle upon it. The branch thus prepared must be erected in a hedge, or among some growing bushes. If employed in summer it should be placed in a quickset hedge in groves, bushes, or white-thorn trees, near corn-fields, &c.; but in winter the best spots are near stacks of corn, sheds, or barns. The sportsman ought to stand as near the limed bush as possible, and imitate the notes of birds with a call. When a bird is attracted to the bush and entangled by the lime, the sportsman should suffer it to remain, as by the fluttering it makes to disengage itself others will be attracted to the bush, and thus several may be taken together. The hours proper for this sport are from sunrise till ten o'clock, and from one to sunset. Another me thod of attracting birds is by a stale; a bat makes a very good stale, but it must be fixed so as to be perceptible at a distance. An owl is still more eligible for this purpose, being followed by the small birds whenever it appears. If a live owl or bat cannot be obtained, tiie skin of one stuffed will likewise answer; nay, even the image of an owl carved in wood, and painted of the natural colour, will produce the desired effect. When the German composition is used, care should be taken to seize the bird when entangled, to prevent it from attempting to free itself by its beak, otherwise it will be destroyed by the deleterious effect of the oil. BIRDS : To Pot. Pick, draw, and wipe them clean ; season them with pepper, salt, and mace; put them into a pot with butter, after which send it to the oven, and when done, draw off the gravy; next put the birds into fresh pots, and cover them in the common way. BIRDS : To Truss (Small). When picked clean, cut off the heads and the pinions at the first joint; flatten the breastbone; turn the feet close to the legs, and put one within the other; take out the gizzard, and run a skewer through the middle of as many as are to be dressed; being small they must be fastened to the spit. BIRDS IN JP:LLY. Take 8 larks or other birds, with their heads and legs on; put into[ n2 ] BIS BIR the belly of each a little butter, and secure the vents ; cover them in a jug, and set it in a kettle of boiling water till the birds are done; then draw them; make a jelly of calves' feet, and place the birds as already directed in the pre- ceding article. BIRDS, POTTED: To Preserve. When the birds have come a great way they often smell so badly that they can scarcely be borne owing to the rankness of the butter used in potting them. By managing them in the following manner they may be made as good as ever:— Set a large saucepan of clear water over the fire ; when it boils take off the butter at the top; then take the birds out one by one, throw them into the saucepan of water for half a minute, whip them out, and dry them in a cloth inside and out; continue this till they are all done; then scald the pot clean. When the birds are quite cold, season them with mace, pepper, and salt, according to taste; put them down close in a pot, and pour clarified butter over them. BIRDS, SAUCE FOR. Shred 2 or 3 shal- lots, and boil them for a few minutes in 1 gill of water and ^ gill of vinegar; add thereto J pint of good gravy, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; shake this over the fire till it thickens, and then serve it up. BISCUITS ai'e of many lands, but however made, remember that none but the very best and driest flour should be employed, and that in storing them, any paper, except white writing- paper, imparts to them an undesired flavour. The following notes upon the preparation of sailors' biscuits we print first, because many of the notes are generally applicable. The name biscuit is evidently derived from the nature of the processes to which this kind of bread was formerly subjected. The two bakings then used are no longer found neces- sary, but the name, although thus rendered inappropriate, has been continued. When intended for this use, biscuits are most commonly made of the meal of wheat from which only the coarsest bran has been separated. It is hardly possible to be too particular in the selection of meal for this purpose, since any damage to which it may have been subject, either before or after being ground, would pre- vent biscuits, however carefully made, from keeping sound for any length of time. The preparation of sea biscuit is carried on as a substantive branch of business in almost every port to which vessels resort which are engaged in trading with distant countries. The largest biscuit manufactories are those maintained by government for supplying the navy. The scale ixpon which these are carried on is such as to make it of great importance to introduce into the process every simplicity compatible with the goodness of the articles; and attempts have, with this view, been made from time to time, in order to lessen the amount of labour in the establishments. It does not appear that these attempts can have been very successful, since the process now used in the great bake- house at Deptford is identical with that em- ployed there forty years ago, and which is as follows :—Meal and water being mixed together in proportions necessary for giving the due de- gree of consistency to the dough, it is kneaded in the following manner: the dough is placed upon a wooden platform, about 6 feet square, fixed horizontally a few inches above the floor of the bakehouse, and against the wall. A wooden staff, 5 inches in diameter and 8 feet long, has one end fixed by means of a staple and eye to the wall, at a convenient distance, at the middle of that side which is against the wall, above the level of the platform, and its other end overhangs by 2 feet the outer edge of the platform. Having a certain play by means of the staple and eye, this staff can be made to traverse the surface of the platform, and when the dough is placed upon it, the staff is used so as to knead it by indenting upon it lines radiating in a semicircle from the staple. To perform this kneading process, a man seats him- self upon the overhanging end of the staff, and proceeds with a ridiug motion backwards and forwards through the semicircular range until the dough is sufficiently kneaded. In this state the dough is cut by large knives into slices, which are subdivided into small lumps, each sufficient for making a biscuit. In moulding these small lumps, which is done by hand, the dough undergoes a further degi'ee of kneading, and at length receives the form of the biscuit. The men who thus fashion the dough make two of these cakes at the same time, work- ing with each hand independently of the other. When this part of the work is completed, the two pieces, which have been simultaneously pre- pared, are placed one on the other and handed over to another workman, by whom the two together are stamped with a toothed instrument, the use of which is to allow the equable dissipa- tion of moisture through the holes from all parts of the biscuit during the baking. The biscuits are then separated by another workman, who places them on a particular spot of a small table standing close to the mouth of the oven, so that each biscuit can be taken up in its turn without the necessity of his looking for it, by the man who supplies the oven. The office performed by this man is that of tossing the biscuits in succession upon the peel, which is held by another man whose business is to arrange them in the oven. This peel is a flat thin board, a few inches square, which can, by means of a[ 113 ] BIS BIS lonsf handle, he slidden over the floor of the oven, so as to deposit and arrange the biscuits thereon. The greatest nicety is required on the part of the man who thus tosses the biscuits on the peel, and he could not perform this evo- lution with the necessary degree of precision if he were at any time obliged to withdraw his eye from the peel in search of the biscuit. The oven is by these means supplied at the rate of 70 biscuits in one minute. The mouth of the oven is necessarily open during the time of its being charged; the heat is, therefore, greater at the beginning than at the end of that operation, and, besides this, the biscuits first deposited are, of com-se, a longer time exposed to heat than the rest. To remedy the irregularity that might be thus occasioned, the pieces of dough are gradually and regularly made of smaller bulk, so that the effect of the cooler oven during a shorter time is equalised. When sufficiently baked the biscuits are placed in the warm atmosphere of rooms (which are well ventilated) over the ovens, and remain there until perfectly dry. In this state it is found that only 102 lbs. of biscuits are procured from 112 lbs. of meal. BISCUIT BREAD. Dry thoroughly fine flour and powder sugar, of each -J lb.; beat up 4 very fresh eggs for ten minutes ; then add the sugar, beat them ten minutes longer, put the flour, and continue beating ten minutes more. Butter your baking plates and bake. Caraway or aniseed seed may be added if you choose. BISCUIT CAKE. One pound of flour, 5 eggs well beaten and strained, 8 ozs. of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower water. Beat the whole thoroughly and bake it for one hour. BISCUIT, CARAWAY. Mix 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, and 1 oz. of caraway seeds, with 4 eggs and a few spoonsful of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, cut the cakes in any shape, and bake them on tins. While baking, boil ^ lb. of sugar in a gill of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, put them into the oven on tins to dry for a short time, and when the oven is cool, put them in again, and let them remain till quite dry. BISCUIT DROPS (1). Pound and sift 1 lb. of fine sugar; take the yolks of 7 and the whites of 10 eggs, and beat well separately for an hour. Dry and sift 1 lb. of fine flour, and when cold mix it with the eggs and sugar; beat altogether for a quarter of an hour. Drop upon paper, sift sugar over, and bake them. BISCUIT DROPS (2). Beat 1 lb. of sugar, the yolks of 4 and the whites of 2 eggs, with a little white wine ; then put in 1 lb. of flour and a few seeds; mix all well together. Butter a paper, lay your batter on in spoonsful, ice them with fine sugar, and set them in a gentle oven. BISCUIT DROPS (3). Take 8 eggs, lib. of double-refined sugar beaten fine, and J 2 ozs. of dry flour. Beat the eggs well, put in the sugar, and continue the beating, adding the flour by degrees, and beat altogether without ceasing. Let your oven be well heated; flour sheets of tin, drop the biscuits thereon, and put them into the oven quickly. Watch them as they rise, and the instant they change colour take them out. If well done they will have the appearance of being finely iced. Caraways may be added. When all are baked put them into the oven again to dry. BISCUIT, ICE-CREAM. Break 6 eggs into a stewpan, and beat them with a wooden spoon ; add 1 pint of cream, the peel of a lemon, 2 gills of syrup, and a little spice; boil it till it begins to thicken, stirring constantly; crumble some Naples and ratafia biscuits into it, pass the whole through a sieve, and put it into the mould, which place in ice as directed. See Ice. BISCUIT, ICED (Royal). Make a Savoy biscuit of 9 eggs, -| lb. of sugar, and 5 ozs. of potato-flour, with the addition of a little pul- verised iris and orange-flower; bake it in an octagon mould, and let it cool. Make an icing with 10 ozs. of sugar and H oz. of eggs ; mix them together with a wooden or silver spoon, putting in a few drops of lemon-juice occasion- ally. When very white divide it into two equal parts, to one of which add a little carmine to make it of a delicate rose colour; with these two icings glaze alternately each angle of the biscuit very carefully; keep it thin and even, and smooth it with the blade of a knife. BISCUIT, NUN'S (The). Take the whites of 12 eggs, and beat them to a froth ; 1 lb. of almonds, blanch them, and beat them with the froth of the whites of eggs as it rises; then take the yolks and 2 lbs. of fine sugar, and beat them well together; mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs ; add ^ lb. of flour, with the peel of 4 grated lemons and some citron shred small. Put the composition in little cake-pans, and bake in a quick oven, and when they are coloured turn the biscuits on tins to harden the bottoms. Be- fore you set them in the oven again sift on them some double-refined sugar. Let the pans be buttered, and fill them half way. BISCUIT, SCOTCH. Take H lb. of flour, pour the third of a pint of boiling water on 9 ozs. of butter; let it stand till nearly cold be- fore you mix it with the flour, adding a few caraway seeds and powder sugar to your taste ; roll them out, but not very thin ; wet them over with a little rose water, and sift sugar over them. BISCUIT, SPICE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, IBIS BIS [ 114 ] 3 lbs. of almonds cut in half, 3 ozs. of cinnamon and mace pounded, and 1 lb. of powder sugar ; mix them all together on your slab. Boil 3 lbs. of Lisbon sugar with some water; make the above ingredients into a paste with this, and roll it to the size of a large rolling-pin; lay it on a sheet of paper, flatten it down a little with your hand, keeping it higher towards the ends ; put it into a very hot oven ; when done take it out, and, while hot, cut it across in slices an eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. BISCUIT, ST. CLOUD. Sift 2 ozs. of rice-flour through a tammy into an earthen pan, with i lb. of powder sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, and a little grated lemon-peel; beat them up together for a quarter of an hour; whisk the whites of 8 eggs to a froth, and mix them with the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take them from the mould while hot, and ice them in the following manner: beat up half the white of an egg and 2 table-spoonsful of powder sugar, with a wooden spoon; add, occa- sionally, a few drops of lemon-juice; when it becomes quite white lay it over the biscuits, and place them in the oven a minute to dry. BISCUIT, SYRINGE. Beat ] lb. of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moistening them with white of egg ; and having grated the rinds of 6 lemons, mix them in 2^ lbs. of powder sugar with the almond paste. Take a syringe mould, the bottom of which should be flat, and a star cut out in the centre; half fill your syringe with paste, and press it through on to a well-floured slab; cut in pieces about three inches in length, lay them on sheets of paper to prevent their burning, and bake them in a brisk oven. BISCUIT, TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. Beat lib. of sweet and l|oz. of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, moisten with water, and mix the paste, which should not be too thux, with lb. of Lisbon sugar. Lay a sheet of writing-paper on your baking plate, and wafer paper on that; make the biscuits about the size of a half-crown piece; put a dried cherry in the middle of each; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. When done cut the wafer paper round, but do not take it away. BISCUIT, YARMOUTH. Pick and wash i pint of currants, dry them well, rub a little flour with them, and put them with ^Ib. of powder sugar, | lb. of sifted flour, and i lb. of fresh butter ; mix them into a paste with 3 eggs; roll it out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch; cut them into what shapes you please. Bake them of a light colour in a hot oven. BISCUITS (1). Weigh 8 eggs, an equal weight of sugar, and the weight of 4 in flour; beat up the yolks of 5, and put them into an earthen vessel with some rasped lemon-peel and the sugar ; beat them for a long time ; then add the whites of 11 eggs, also well beaten; then mix in the flour by degrees. Pour this into paper cases of whatever form or size you please ; strew powder sugar over them, and bake in a cool oven. BISCUITS (2). Lay the rind of a lemon in boiling water till it is tender; take | lb. of sweet almonds and blanch them in cold water; add 2 ozs. of gum dragon, which soak in plain water; then pound the almonds, putting in, as you pound, the whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound the lemon in a stone mortar by itself; put the gum and the lemon into the almonds, and mix them well together ; then beat 1 lb. of fine sugar in a mortar with the almonds, gum, and lemon, and afterwards add 2 lbs. more of fine sugar, stirring it with a spoon. Then roll it up in little rolls, lay them upon white paper, and set them in the oven. BISCUITS (3). Make lib. of flour, the yolk of 1 egg, and some milk into a very stift paste ; beat it well, knead it till quite smooth, roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Prick and bake in a slow oven till diy and crisp. BISCUITS, ABERNE'THY. To 7 lbs. of flour, 1 quart of new milk, ^ lb. of butter, and i lb. of loaf sugar, add 2 ozs. of caraway seeds ; mix and knead them very well together; then roll them out, and cut and stamp them with a block. Bake them in a quick oven. BISCUITS, FRENCH. Take the weight of 3 new-laid eggs in flour, and an equal quan- tity of powder sugar. Beat up the whites of the 3 eggs with a whisk till they froth; then stir in ^ oz. of candied lemon-peel cut small and beaten well; then by degrees add the flour and sugar, after which put in the yolks, and with a spoon temper the whole together. Shape the biscuits on white paper, throw sifted sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. BISCUITS, HARD. Warm 2 ozs. of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make 1 lb. of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it very thin and cut into biscuits ; prick and bake them for about six minutes. BISCUITS, ICED. Beat up the whites ot 8 and the yolks of 6 eggs, with 1 lb. of fine- powdered sugar, for two houi's. Have ready 14 ozs. of well-dried sifted flour ; when the oven is ready and the plates buttered, mix the flour as quickly as possible with the eggs, &c., and lay the biscuits on the plates. You may add a little musk and ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. BISCUITS, ITALIAN WATER. Whisk up 6 eggs, and an equal weight of powder sugar for half an horn". Take 6 more eggs and their weight of flour; mix all together, andBIS BIS [ 115 1 lay this mixture on paper in cakes the eighth of an inch thick, and about two inches in diameter; lay them quite flat, and do not let them touch. The oven should be hot; five minutes will bake them. When cold wet the under side of the paper, and they will remove easily. BISCUITS, JESSAMINE. The Spanish jessamine is the best, but if not to be procured take English jessamine flowers, clean picked from the stalk; beat them well in a marble mortar, and put to them the whites of eggs and powder sugar, and lay sugar under them in a dish or on papers ; cover them with sugar, and bake them in a gentle oven. BISCUITS, KING'S. Put ilb. of butter into a basin, and work it about well with a wooden spoon; break 6 eggs, and whisk them well; add i lb. of powdered sugar, and whisk ten minutes longer; then mix them with the butter; stir in 6 ozs. of currants, and the same quantity of dried flour. When all is well mixed drop it the size of a shilling on paper, and bake in a quick oven. Take them off while hot. BISCUITS, LEMAN'S. Sift and dry 1 lb. of fine flour ; rub it into J lb. of butter, 2 ozs. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatile salt about the size of a nut; mix in as much warmed new milk as will make it into a stiff paste; work it well together, and let it remain for two or three hours; then roll it out, and make it into small square biscuits and round balls a little flattened; piick them with a fork, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. Take care they do not become brown. BISCUITS, LIGHT. Put the yolks of 5 eggs into a pan, with a few crisped orange flowers and the peel of a lemon shredded fine. Add f lb. of fine lump sugar, and beat the whole till this last is dissolved. Then beat the whites of 10 eggs, and when well frothed mix the same with the sugar. Stir lightly 6 ozs. of flour, and put the biscuits in an oblong form on some paper; sift a little fine sugar over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Sweetmeats may be added. BISCUITS, MARBLED. Make 24 eggs, 1 lb. of powder sugar, and fib. of dried and sifted flour into a biscuit paste, as directed for Spoon Biscuits ; then beat 4 ozs. of dissolved choco- late in an earthen pan, and add to it a third of the paste. When it is well mixed divide it in half, and to one half mix a quarter of the biscuit paste, which will tinge that portion with a light chocolate colour. After this mix to- gether some vegetable red and infusion of saffron to colour the remaining half orange; then divide that again, and mix the last quarter with half the orange colour; thus your paste will be coloured with two shades of chocolate and two of orange. Make two paper cases, each eight inches square and three high ; pour into one of these a large spoonful of chocolate paste, and when it has spread over the bottom of the case pour in one of the orange coloured, on which pour another of chocolate, and so on alternately until the case is half full; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it into a slow oven for three quarters of an hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit paste (both colours) into a pan, and stir them together with a spoon till the whole is veined or clouded with the two colours ; pour the paste into the other case, sprinkle it with flour, and bake it like the former. When quite cold cut it into slices about two inches thick, half of which should be broken, and the other half cut in pieces of an equal size; lay them on a baking plate, and dry them in the oven. These are generally used to make the rocks in orna- mental pastry, and may be coloured with the usual materials according to your fancy. BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the weight of 6 eggs in powder sugar, and mix it with the yolks of the 6 eggs and a little pounded cinnamon; whisk the whites to a firm froth, and stir them lightly into the yolks ; add 4 whole eggs, and their weight of dry sifted flour; mix them well to- gether ; take this mixture in a spoon, and lay it, in about the size of a half-crown piece, on paper; join two together with the spoon, and when your paper is full sprinkle powder sugar over, and bake them; a few minutes will do them. Remove them from the paper while hot and put the two under sides together. BISCUITS, MUSCOVY. Take green lemon peel, orange-flower marmalade, and apricot mar- malade, of each 4 drachms ; 4 whites of eggs and 3 ozs. of powder sugar; whip the whites to a snow, pound the marmalade to a paste, and pass it through a sieve ; then add the eggs and sugar, mixing them well together, put them in buttered paper cases, and bake them. When sufficiently done glaze them with powder sugar and white of egg, and decorate them with non- pareils. BISCUITS, NAPLES. Boil 1 lb. of Lisbon sugar in ^ pint of water, with a small glassful of orange-flower water till the former is melted. Break 8 eggs, and whisk them well together; then put thereto the syrup boiling hot, whisking it all the while till cold, and then mix it with 1 lb. of fine flour; lay 3 sheets of paper on a baking plate, and make the edges of 1 sheet stand Up nearly 2 inches high. Pour in the butter, sift some powdered lump sugar over it, and set it in the oven, watching it well. When baked let it stand till cold ; then wet the paper to make it come off. Cut the biscuits into four. BISCUITS, QUEEN'S. Take l^lb. of flour, the whites of 24 and the yolks of 18 eggs, put in coriander seeds beaten small at discre-BIS C 116 ] BIS tion; mix these well togetlier, and make them into a soft paste ; add a little soft yeast or not. Lay this paste on paper, or in crusts about 2 inches broad and 4 inches long ; set them in a moderate oven, and when they begin to tui'n brown take them out, and lay them on paper in a diy place. BISCUITS, SAVOY (1). Whip 12 whites of eggs to a snow ; beat the yolks with IJlb. of powder sugar; mix them together, with f lb. of flour and the grated rind of a lemon, into a paste; rub your mould with melted butter, and bake. BISCUITS, SAVOY (2). Beat up 12 eggs, leaving out half the whites, with a small whisk. Put thereto while whisking 2 or 3 spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, with 1 lb. of double- refined sifted sugar. When the whole is like cream, take 1 lb. and 2 ozs. of dry flour, and mix it in with a wooden spoon. Form the batter into long cakes, sift sugar over them, and put them into a moderate oven to avoid scorching. A common sort is made by putting in all the eggs, and leaving out the rose or orange-flower water. BISCUITS, SAVOY (with Almonds). The ingredients for this biscuit are the same as the above, with the addition of 4 eggs and ^ lb. of bitter almonds. Blanch the almonds; then wash, drain, and dry them in a napkin ; pound them with whites of eggs in the usual way to a fine paste, pass it through a sieve, and then mix it with the additional eggs; add this to the sugar and yolks, and proceed as above. BISCUITS, SAVOY (Cold). Take a little more of very fine dry flour, 1 lb. of very dry pounded sugar, and 14 eggs; rasp the peel of 2 lemons or oranges on the sugar, which put to the yolks of the eggs, and work them together with two wooden spoons. Whip the whites m a separate vessel, with a small pinch of calcined alum to prevent their turning. When very firm take half to mix with the yolks; then mix the whole, and sift the flour over it, heating all together gently with a whip. Prepare a mould as above, and put the biscuit in a little at a time to prevent bladders at the top; put some ashes on a baking dish, and put the mould over this in a moderate oven. One hour is sufficient. The same paste may be put into paper cases. Throw custard sugar over it before baking. BISCUITS, SAVOY (Hot). Break 12 eggs into a vessel over another containing water nearly boiling; beat them up in it with 1 lb. of fine-sifted sugar. When the eggs are no longer soft put J lb. of flour mto a silk sieve, mix the flour well with the eggs by shaking the sieve, then add 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water. Rub a mould over with butter, powder some sugar over, and pour in your paste; sprinkle more sugar over, and bake it in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. BISCUITS, SPONGE (1). Beat together, for half an hour, 4 well-beaten eggs and | lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar; then mix in lightly 6 ozs. of dried and sifted flour and the grated peel of a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a table-spoonful of rose water. Flour the pans, fill them half full, and sift pounded sugar over them. Bake them in a quick oven. BISCUITS, SPONGE (2). Break 12 eggs, separate the yolks and whites; to the former put fib. of powder sugar; stir well with a wooden spoon till it rises in large bladders; whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and then mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, and when incorporated add 10 ozs. of fine dried and sifted flour. Stir them all well together, and pour the mixture into well-buttered tin moulds ; sift sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them from the tins while hot. BISCUITS, SPOON. Break 4 eggs, put the yollfs into separate basins ; add to the former i lb. of powder sugar; having grated on it the zest of a lemon, mix these together well with a spatula for ten minutes; then whip the whites to a froth, and put about half of it to the yolks, and when that is well mixed in add the rest; stir it very lightly, and lay the biscuits with a spoon on paper ; make them about three inches long, and the breadth of a finger. Glaze them with powder sugar, and place them on baking tins ; and, as the sugar dissolves and they shine, put the biscuits into a moderate oven, which must be kept open for seven or eight minutes, then close it until your biscuits are of a proper colour. When cold detach them from the paper with a thin knife blade, and lay them by in couples, the glazed side outwards, till wanted. BISCUITS, SUGAR (1). Take the weight of 8 eggs in finely-pounded loaf sugar, and of 4 in dried flour; beat separately the whites and yolks of 8 eggs ; with the yolks beat in sugar half an hour; then add the whites and the flour, and a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, or pounded cin- namon. Bake them in yellow tea-cups, or drop them upon paper, as the French Biscuits. BISCUITS, SUGAR (2). Mix together 1 lb. of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 10 well-beaten eggs, and a few pounded cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and bake it. BISCUITS, SWEET. Take i lb. of fine- pounded sugar and sift it through a tammy. Put the whites of 12 eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks into an earthenware tureen; whip the whites to a sncw, and then carcfull}' pour on it the yolks and sugar; stir them gently;BIS BIS L 117 J place your pan over a chafing-dish; continue whipping the whole for full half an hour; and then, if the drop which falls from the whisk lays a little while without spreading, take it from the fire and whisk it again till it is cold ; then add ^ lb. of fine-sifted flour, stirring it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop the biscuits on paper, sift sugar over, and bake them in a warm oven until of a deep yeUow; take them from the papers while warm. Bake them as soon as pos- sible after they are dropped on the paper. BISHOP (1). Make numerous incisions in the rind of a lemon; stick cloves in these in- cisions, and roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves, mace, allspice, and a race of ginger into a sauce- pan with I pint of water; let it boil until re- duced to ^ pint. Boil a bottle of port wine, and, by applying a lighted paper, burn a small portion of the spirit out of it. Add to the wine the roasted lemon and spice; stir all well toge- ther, and let the mixture stand for ten minutes before the fire. Rub some lumps of sugar on the rind of a lemon; put these into a bowl or jug with the juice of half an unroasted lemon; pour the wine upon the mixture, grate a little nutmeg upon it, sweeten to your taste, and then you have the bishop. Serve it up with the lemon and spice floating on it. BISHOP (2). Roast 4 good-sized bitter oranges till they are of a pale brown colour; lay them in a tureen, and put over them | lb. of pounded loaf sugar and 3 glasses of claret; place the cover on the tureen, and let it stand till next day. When required for use put the tureen into a pan of boiling water, press the oranges with a spoon, and run the juice through a sieve; then boil the remainder of the bottle of claret, taking care that it does not burn ; add to it the strained juice, and serve it warm in glasses. BISHOP, ESSENCE OF. Steep 3ozs., apothecaries' weight, of bruised allspice in a quart of brandy for a fortnight, occasionally shaking it up; then pour off the clear liquid. Good for gravies, mulled wine, potted meats, &c. BISMUTH is a metal much used in the arts. Pearl-white is an oxide, or rather a sub-salt, of this metal. Ladies have used it for painting the skin, to which it imparts a beautiful white; but it has the inconvenience of becoming black by the contact of sulphuretted hydrogen gas, or the fumes of fetid substances. The gas which arises from the burning of mineral coal will have the same effect. It is related of a lady of fashion, who had incautiously seated herself too near the fire at a quadrille-table, that her countenance changed on a sudden from a deli- cate white to a dark tawny as though by magic. The surprise and confusion of the whole party had sujch an effect upon the disfigured fair one, that she was actually dying with apprehension, when the physician dispelled their fears by informing his patient that nothing more was necessary than for her to abstain from the use of mineral cosmetics, and to trust in future to those charms which nature had bestowed upon her. Some of the French chemists recommend the use of the oxides of bismuth for dyeing, to fix some particular colours. It is eaid that pomatum prepared with the oxide of bismuth will turn the hair black. The solution of bismuth in nitric acid has been used as a sympathetic ink. When first written the letters are invisible; but if the paper be plunged in water the characters be- come perfectly legible. The common mixture for pewter is 112 lbs. of tin, 15 lbs. of lead, and 6 lbs. of brass ; but many manufacturers use also bismuth and antimony to compose this metal. Bismuth is likewise generally mixed with tin for vessels of capacity, &c., as it gives to that metai a greater degree of brilliancy and hardness. From its property of rendering lead more fusible it is too often employed with that metal to adulterate quicksilver. If 8 parts of bismuth, 5 of lead, and 3 of tin be melted together, the mixed metal will fuse at a heat no greater than 212°. Tea-spoons made with this alloy are sold in London to surprise those who are unacquainted with their nature. They have the appearance of bright pewter tea-spoons, but melt as soon as they are put into hot tea. A composition of lead, zinc, and bismuth in equal parts will melt with so small a portion of caloric, that it may be kept in fusion upon paper over a lamp. BISQUE. Take what fish you please, wash and clean it; then pickle it for an hour in white wine vinegar, a handful of salt, a whole spice, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole onions, and the grated peel of a lemon. Nearly cover the whole of the fish with these ingredients, and when it is pickled in them for an hour put it with the ingredients into a saucepan, and when it is about half boiled add some boiling water to it; this will make the fish very firm. Then fry the remainder of your fish; make a rich sauce with oysters, shrimps, mushrooms, capers, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 anchovies, 2 onions stuck with cloves, the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice of a lemon, grated nutmeg, and some scraped horseradish. Mix all these together with 2 lbs. of butter, and let it be very thick; dish your fish, and pour over it the sauce. Garnish your fried fish with parsley, horseradish, and sliced lemon. Serve it hot. BISTORT, Pohjrjonum bistorta, is also known as snakeweed. The root is about the thickness of a finger, perennial, crooked, wrinkled, of a firm texture, and of a reddish or flesh colour,[ 118 J BIT BIT covere(3 v;ith. a broAvn rind, and furnisted witli numerous small fibres and creepers ; the stalk is simple, bending, solid, round, smooth, swelled at the joints, enclosed by the sheaths of the stipulse, and is l^foot or 2 feet in height; the leaves, rising direct from the root, are ovalish, or rather, heart-shaped, pointed, and stand upon long winged footstalks; the upper leaves em- brace the stem, and are narrower and undulated. The flowers stand upon short footstalks, and terminate the stalk in an oblong close spike; the corolla is small, of tubular appearance, and divided into five oval obtuse segments, of a reddish-white colour, and at the base supplied with several nectareous glands; the bracteal or floral leaves are membraneous, withered, and each incloses two flowers; the filaments are tapering, white, longer than the corolla, and the anthers are purple ; the styles are three, about the length of the stamens; the stigmas are small and round; the germen is triangular, of a red colour, and the seeds are brown and re- markably glossy. Bistort is a native of Britain; it grows in moist meadows, and flowers in May and Sep- tember. Every part of the plant manifests a degree of roughness to the taste, and the root is esteemed to be one of the most powerful of the vegetable astringents. Lewis says that this " astringent matter is totally dissolved both by water and rectified spirit, the root, after the action of a sufficient quantity of either men- struum, remaining insipid. On distilling the tinctures the water and spirit arise unflavoured, leaving extracts of intense stypticity." The root of bistort was formerly considered to be a poison-antidote and sudorific; but its uses seem only to be derived from its styptic powers ; it is, therefore, chiefly given in haemorrhages and other immoderate fluxes. Dr. Cullen ob- serves that the bistort, "by its sensible quali- ties, and by the colour it gives with green vitriol, and by the extracts it affords, seems to be one of the strongest of pur vegetable astringents, and is justly commended for every virtue that has been ascribed to any other. As such we have frequently employed it, and particularly in intermittent fevers, and in larger doses than those commonly mentioned in Materia Medica writers. Both by itself and along with gentian we have given it to the quantity of 3 drachms a day." The dose of the root in substance is from a scruple to a drachm. BITES. See Adder and Hydrophobia. BITTERS in medicine are one description of tonics given for the purpose of strengthening the stomach, and by that means invigorating the general health. The custom of infusing bitter herbs in vinous drinks is very ancient and uni- versal. The Poculum absinthiatum was regarded in remote ages as a wholesome beverage, and wormwood was supposed to act as an anti- dote against drunkenness. The Swiss peasant cheers himself amidst the cold solitude of his glaciers with a spirit distilled from gentian, the extreme bitterness of which is relished with a glee that is quite unintelligible to a more culti- vated taste. With regard to the natural use of bitter extractive, it may be laid down as a truth that it stimulates the stomach, corrects putrefy- ing and unwholesome nutriment, promotes tardy digestion, increases the nutritive powers of those vegetable substances to which it is united, and furnishes a natm-al remedy for the deranged functions of the stomach in particular, and, through the sympathetic medium of that organ, for the defect of muscular power of remote parts in general. Quinine, colomba, gentian, camomile, dande- lion, chicory, and some other vegetable products are the chief bitters. They are given in the form of pills, mixtures, and draughts, the fol- lowing being some of the prescriptions :—Take of extract of gentian 2 drachms. Make 24 pills; 3 to be taken twice a day. Or, take of extract of hop 2 drachms. Make 24 pills ; to be taken as the preceding. Take of compound tincture of gentian 4 ozs. fluid as a mixture, of which 1 table-spoonful to be occasionallj^ given. Or, take of compound infusion of gentian, 4 ozs. fluid; compound tincture of gentian, 2 ozs. fluid. Mix them; 2 table-spoonsful to be used twice a day. Or, take of quassia-root, 1 drachm; boil- ing water, 10ozs. fluid; soak for an hour, and to 6 ozs. fluid of the strained liquor add aromatic confection, 2drachms; tincture of colomba,oz. fluid. Mix them; 2 table-spoonsful may be taken occasionally. For a draught take of extract of hop, ^ scruple ; allspice water, l|-oz. fluid; aro- matic spirit of ammonia, 20 drops ; tincture of orange, syrup of ginger, each 2 drachms fluid. Make a draught; it should be given daily two hours before, and at the same time after dinner. BITTERS, ALE. Steep in I gallon of ale 4 ozs. each of gentian root and fresh lemon- peel. After ten days strain the liquor off and bottle it for use. BITTERS, BRANDY. Gentian root, ilb.4 orange-peel, 6 ozs.; cardamom seed, 2ozs.; cin- namon, ^oz.; cochineal, 5 oz.; brandy, l^- gallon. BITTERS, GIN. Steep for ten days in 13 gallons of gin, 1 to 5 under proof, ^ oz. of coriander seed, ^ oz. of almond cake, 2 ozs. of Virginia snakeroot; then, after the above is steeped and taken out, mix in j^our mortar J oz. of the oil of orange, \ oz. of the oil of carawaj', ^ oz. of the oil of wormwood, with a small quan- tity of spirits, until it all becomes an oil. Put to the above 3 gallons of spirits, with ] 3 quarts of cold water that has been boiled, and it willBIT BLA [ 119 ] produce 14|- gallons superior m quality to any generally sold. BITTERS, SPIRITUOUS. Take 2 ozs. of gentian root, 1 oz. of dried Seville orange-peel, and i oz. of lesser cardamom seeds free from the husks. Put these into 1 quart of any kind of spirits to steep for a fortnight, and strain the liquor as before. BITTERS, WINE. Take 1 oz. each of gentian root and the outer rind of fresh lemons, 2 drachms of long pepper, and 1 quart of white wine. Steep these for six days, and strain the liquor through a filtering bag or cap paper. BITTERSWEET, Solanum dulcamara, also known as woody nightshade. Dr. Duncan thus speaks of this poisonous plant:—This climbing shrub grows wild in moist hedges, attains ten feet to fifteen feet in height, has woody, brittle stalks, and flowers in June and July. The twigs in the second or third year of their growth should be gathered every autumn-after the fall of the leaf. They should have the thickness of a goose quill, or a little more. The epidermis is pale yellow, the bark green, and the pith spongy. When fresh, on being bruised, they give out an unpleasant, nauseous, narcotic smell, which they lose by drying. Their taste is at first distinctly bitter, but they leave a soft, sweetish after-taste in the mouth. The dulcamara twigs have been analysed by Professor Pfaff, who got, besides a very volatile narcotic principle, a peculiar bitter principle of a honey smell and sweet after-taste [Picro-gly- cion), forming about one-fifth. The other prin- ciples were of less importance. M. Desfosses got a narcotic principle, solanine, from the berries of the Solanum nigrum and S. dulca- mara, as well as from the twigs of the latter species, whereas the leaves of the former did not contain it, nor the berries of the S. tuberosum. In the dulcamara he also got a sweet substance, to which he gave the name of didcarine, but it is probably only a modificatiou of uncrystal- lisable sugar. MM. Chevalier and Payen have found this alkaloid also in the Solanum verbasci- folium. It was thought that the berries of the bittersweet, which assume a fine red colour when arrived at maturity, were poisonous ; but M. Dunal has shown that this was an error. Another species of Solanum, the pseudoquina of Brazil, has been analysed by M. Vauquelin, who has found its active principle to resemble colocynthine, in being precipitated by infusion of nut-galls, but not by acetate of lead or ni- trate of silver. Powdered solanine is white, inodorous, rather bitter, little soluble in water, more soluble in alcohol. It is prepared by precipitating the juice of the morelle, or the decoction of that plant by ammonia. The pre- cipitate ia collected, dried, and then treated by boiling alcohol, which on cooling deposits the solanine. Solanine seems to possess considerable power as a narcotic. Two grains affected a young dog. Dr. Schlegel also has related cases in which the decoction of dulcamara and its extract produced narcotic effects. In the last case, a young man with a cutaneous complaint had taken the de- coction of a handful of the fresh twigs daily for fourteen days without any effect. On the fifteenth, having taken also an ounce of the extract in solution, he was seized with cramps in the calves of his legs, slept during the whole night, but on a^vakening in the morning found his head vacant (wust), vertiginous muscm volitantes; pupils greatly dilated; cramp of the legs and arms ; inability to speak, with swelled, stiff tongue ; pulse slow and intermitting ; cold sweat and trembling of the limbs. These symptoms soon went off after tailing a solution of subcarbonate of potass. The dulcamara was formerly much esteemed. It is said to excite the heart and arteries, to increase all the secretions and excretions, and in large doses to produce nausea, vomiting, and convulsions; but its effects are seldom obvious, although from its analysis it is proved to possess narcotic power. It has been recom- mended in cutaneous affections, especially lepra, in rheumatic and other swellings, in ill-con- ditioned ulcers, scrofula, indurations from milk, jaundice, &c. It has principally been used in decoction as a diet drink; 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of that of the London " Pharmacopceia " may be given thrice a day, and gradually augmented till a pint be consumed daily. A stronger decoction may be used externally as a lotion. In the fornf of extract, from 5 grains to 10 grains may be given for a dose. BLACK is the hottest colour which can be worn, for it absorbs heat, whether from a fire or the sun, more rapidly than any other colour. This has been proved by many experiments, and is practically illustrated by slated houses and the roofs of railway carriages being painted white in summer, so that they may reflect instead of ab- sorb the sun's rays. The cooling consequences are most striking Light-coloured garments, also, are found to be cooler for summer wear than are those of a dark colour. On the other hand, black or other dark- coloured veils are to be preferred to white veils for summer use, not only because they are less dazzling to the eyes, but because they preserve the skin more perfectly from being either scorched or freckled. It was formerly considered to be curious that a negro's skui should be black; because, as black absorbs heat more rapidly than any other colour, it was said that it was the worst possible tint to preserve the skin from theBLA [ ] BAL effects of a tropical sun. But Sir Everard Home has found by experiment, that whilst the skin is blistered by exposure to the sun's rays ■when covered only by thin white linen, no such injury occurs when black crape is used. Thus, as the black colour acts by converting the radiant heat of the sun into sensible heat, it in reality prevents the scorching quality of the i"ays ; whilst the increase of sensible heat is neutralised by the corresponding increase of perspiration which naturally takes place. For a similar reason white pigs are scorched by the sun, whilst black pigs remain unblistered. BLACK COCK is dressed in the same way as partridge : a small one will take thirty, a full- grown forty or fifty minutes to roast. Serve with a currant jelly, fried bread-crumbs, gravy, and bread sauce. BLACK DRAUGHT (1). Epsom salts, 3 ozs.; spirit of sal volatile, 3 drachms; tincture of senna, 1J oz.; infusion of senna, 9 ozs.; Spanish liquorice, 3 drachms; oil of cloves, 4 drops. Dissolve the Epsom salts and liquorice in the infusion of senna, promoting the dissolving by heating it. Drop the oil of cloves into the tincture of senna, and then mix all together. BLACK DRAUGHT (2). Alexandrian senna leaves, 1 oz.; ginger powder, 1 drachm; Epsom salts, 4 ozs.; cassia, 1 drachm; tincture of senna, 1 oz.; water, 10 ozs. Boil the senna, ginger, and cassia in the water for five minutes ; strain the liquor when cold through blotting- paper ; dissolve in it the Epsom salts, and then add the tincture of senna. Of either of these purgative preparations, usually called a black dose, the quantity to be taken by an adult is from 1^ to 2 ozs. fluid. BLACK DROP. Public attention was drawn to the black, quakers, or Lancaster drops, by Dr. Armstrong, who published the formula in the first edition of his w'ork on typhus fever. It is certain, however, that, many years before, two formulae were given to the public by a Dr. James Cassels, of Lancaster, one corresponding with that of Dr. Armstrong, and the other as follows : —Take of purified opium, 5 ozs. ; allspice and cinnamon, of each 2 drachms; saffron and Seville orange-peel, of each 1 drachm; recti- fied spirit of wine, 1 pint. Digest with a gentle heat for a week, and strain the liquor through flannel with a screw-press; then add 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of sugar-candy.- A friend of ours made the black drop according to the other prescription with the verjuice, but it did not correspond in colour, taste, or property with that which is sold as a secret preparation. We would, there- fore, recommend a trial of the last-mentioned formula, as a substitute for a very expensive bat very valuable medicine. It is a fact that nsither the one nor the other formula is origi- nal ; for Dr. Jones, in his " Mysteries of Opium Revealed," published nearly two centuries since, makes mention of a preparation of opium similar to Dr. Armstrong's receipt, under the title of laudanum liquidum cydoneatum. Quincy, in his "Dispensatory," published in 1772,takes notice of this formula, and gives others for making laud- anum with spices and aromatics, similar to the form which we now republish. — [Dr. Crell's Family Oracle.) Dr. Paris obsei-ves that this preparation, which has been long known and esteemed, as being more powerful in its operation and less distress- ing in its effects than any tincture of opium, has until lately been involved in much obscurity. The papers, however, of the late Edward Walton, of Sunderland, one of the near relations of the original proprietor, having fallen into the hands of Dr. Armstrong, that gentleman obliged the profession by publishing the manner in which it is prepared, and it is as follows:—"Take i lb. of sliced opium, 3 pints of good verjuice (juice of the wild crab), 1^ oz. of nutmegs, and i oz. of saff'ron. Boil them to a proper thickness, then add Jib. of sugar and 2 spoonsful of yeast. Set the whole in a warm place near the fire for six or eight weeks ; then place it in the open air until it becomes a syrup; lastly, decant, filter and bottle it up, adding a little sugar to each bottle." One drop of this pre- paration is considered equal to about three of the tincture of opium of the London " Pharma- copoeia." It would appear that an acetate of morphia is formed, which is more active and less distressing in its effects than any other narcotic combination. Liquor opii sedativus. Under this name, Mr. Battley, of Fore Street, London, introduced a narcotic preparation, which it is generally sup- posed owes its efficacy to the acetate of morphia. On being kept, however. Dr. Paris found that it underwent some important change, during which so much air was disengaged as to blow out the cork from the bottle with violence. This is an objection to its admission into practice. BLACK DYE. See Dyeing. BLACK PUDDINGS. Take I peck of gi'its, boil them half an hour in water, drain them, and put them into a clean tub or large pan. Then kill your hog, and save 2 quarts of the blood, and keep stirring it till the blood be quite cold; then mix it with the grits, and stir them well together. Season it with a lai'ge spoonful of salt, J oz. of a mixture of cloves, mace, and nut- meg together, an equal quantity of each. Dry it, beat it well, and mix it. Take a little winter savory, sweet marjoram, and thyme, and some pennyroyal, stripped of the stalks and chopped very fine. Of these take just a sufiicient quan- tity to season the puddings and to give themBLA [ 121 ] CLA a flavour, but no more. The next day take the leaf of the hog and cut it into dice; scrape and wash the skins very clean, then tie one end and begin to fill them. Mix in the fat as you fill them, and be sure to put in a good deal of fat. Fill the skins three parts full, tie the other end, and make your puddings any length you please. Prick them with a pin, and put them into a kettle of boiling water. Boil them very softly an hour, then take them out and lay them on clean straw. In Scotland people make their puddings with the blood of a goose, chopping off the head and saving the blood. They stir it well till it is cold, and then mix it with grits, spice, salt, and sweet herbs, according to their fancy, and some chopped beef suet. They take the skin off the neck, then pull out the windpipe and fat, fill the skin, tie it at both ends, and so make a pie of the giblets, and lay the pudding in the middle. BLACK, REVIVER OF. Boil 8ozs. of log- wood chips, and J oz. of green copperas (sulphate of iron) in 3 pints of water until only 1 quart remains. When cold strain the liquor, and add to it 2 ozs., by measure, of gin. Mix, and apply it to any black woollen cloth that has become faded or rusty. Appty it by means of a tooth-brush. When dry brush the cloth with a soft brush. BLACK SILK AND LACE: To Renovate. To do this effectually and uniformly the seams and other sewn parts must be ripped asunder. To a pint of boiling water add two-thirds of a pint of ox-gall; with a clean sponge dipped in this mixture rub the silk on both sides; press it between the hands to squeeze out the super- fluous water. Rinse in river water until the immersion of the silk no longer stains the water; press it again as before directed, and dry it on a clothes-horse, or oh a line, in the open air. Sponge it slightly on the wrong side with a very thin solution of isinglass, and brush it on the right side with a very soft brush, which must be used all the time in the same dii*ection, that is, the selvage-way of the silk. If the colour of the silk has become reddened or dull it must be revived. In order to effect this, after having cleansed the silk with ox-gall and rinsed it in pure water, as has been described, plunge it in river water in which four or five drops of sul- phuric acid have been mixed, so that it may be slightly aciJ, but not too much so, or the silk will be burnt. Move the silk about in the water with the hands during five minutes, then rinse it carefully in a larger quantity of pure water, and finish as before directed. But if the colour be too much gone for this process to be success- ful, the article must be re-dyed. The operation is so simple that any one may easily execute it. Supposing a dress to be the article in question: put into a small saucepan enough water to cover the dress; boil in this water, during half an hour, five or six small bits of logwood, shred into thin slices, and put in a muslin bag. Keep the dress in this water during another half hour, allowing it just to simmer slightly; then hang the pieces of the dress up to drain into the saucepan. Into the liquid thus obtained throw about two tea- spoonsful of sulphate of iron and green copperas in powder. When these substances are melted add water until there is as much liquid in the saucepan as at the commencement of the opera- tion. Place the dress in this, and suffer it to boil very gently for half an hour, stirring it now and then with a stick. Rinse and give the stiffness and gloss. Cleaning black lace veils and black lace. These articles should be gently washed in warm water, in which ox-gall has been mixed ; they are then to be rinsed in cold water until the smell of the ox-gall has disappeared. The water is to be pressed from them (not tcrung), and then they require stiffening. For this purpose a little isinglass must be dissolved in boiling water; into this the veil must be dipped, and then well pressed between the hands. These articles should not be ironed, but gently pulled into the proper form, and then pinned to a table, covered with linen (firmly secured) until dry. Care must be taken to place the pins not farther than half an inch apart. Lace should be pinned carefully at both edges, and square articles at all four sides. Some recommend mangling or pressing in a linen press after the laces are dry and unpinned. BLACKBERRY WINE. This is made of the wild bramble or blackberry. Put fully ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a tap to it; pour on as much boiling water as will cover them, and, as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the hand till all the berries are broken; cover them, and in about three or four days, when the berries rise to the top, draw off the clear part into another vessel; add to every 10 quarts of the liquor 1 lb. of sugar; stir it well in, and let it stand a w-eek or ten days to work. Draw it off through a jelly-bag. Steep 4 ozs. of isinglass in 1 pint of sweet wine for twelve hours ; then boil it slowly till dissolved ; put it into 1 gallon of the blackberry-juice ; boil them, and put all together. Let it stand a few days, and bottle. BLACKING BALLS. See Balls. BLACKING, LADIES'. This article is generally sold in single jars atone shilling each, the quality being unobjectionable ; but it can be made equally good, and at a much less expense, as follows:—Take 4 ozs. of glue, 1 oz. of logwood raspings in a muslin bag, 1 oz. of soft-soap, ^ oz. of isinglcss, and 1 drachm of indigo. Boil these slowly in a quart of vinegar until the quantity is[ 122 ] BLA BLA reduced to a pint. Remove the bag, and it is then ready for use, and should be applied to the leather (which has been previously cleaned from dirt and dust) with a bit of sponge. The effect is a complete jet, which will not stain linen, and the process may be performed without the incum- brance of blacking-brushes, &c. Half an ounce of sulphate of iron would be an improvement. BLACKING, LIQUID (1). Take i gallon of stale beer, i lb. of ivory-black, 3 ozs. of treacle, ^ oz. of gum arable, 1 oz. of sweet oil, 1 oz. of brown sugar-candy, and ^ oz. of sulphuric acid. Mix up the oil with the ivory-black and treacle ; warm the beer, in which dissolve the gum and sugar-candy; slir up all together, and finally pour in by degrees the sulphuric acid, which will produce a fermentation, and cause an amalgama- tion of the whole. It will be fit for use in a few hours, and should be stirred when used. Be careful of your eyes when pouring in the sul- phuric acid. A cheaper blacking may be made by omitting the sugar-candy and gum arabic. BLACKING, LIQUID (2). Take 2 lbs. of ivoi'y-black, 2 lbs. of treacle, and lib. of sweet oil. Rub these well together, then add | lb. of oil of vitriol, and as much beer bottoms or stale beer as will dilute it to a proper consistency. Black Japan for Leather. Mix 1 gallon of boiled oil, 1 lb. of lampblack, 5 ozs. of burnt umber, and 5 ozs. of asphaltum. Make it of the required consistency with spirits of turpentine. BLACKING PASTE. Ivory-black, 4 parts ; treacle, 3 parts ; oil of vitriol, 2 parts; and sweet oil, 1 part. Mix well together, and keep in pots. BLACK-LEAD. It will surprise some of our readers to learn for certain that thei'e is no lead in this. It is, in fact, almost a pure char- coal, or carbon, the very minute proportions of iron and earth found in it being merely trifling impurities. It is known also by the less mis- leading names of plumbayo and graphite. The best in quality, used for making drawing pencils, is found at Keswick, in Cumberland, and the coarser kinds are employed for making crucibles, being indestructible by heat if the atmospheric air is excluded. It is a most efficient protector of iron from rust, and on this account is used in making various compounds, such as anti- attrition and pastes for putting over the surface of ornamental ironwork. Its employment by housemaids for this purpose entitles it to our notice, and the following directions for using it are excellent:—Mix the black-lead powder with dreg or lees of port wine ; if you have none use a little ale or gin, and paint the stove or grate mth the mixture, using for this purpose a bit of linen rag. Then take a clean, dry, and close brush, though not too hard; dip it in dry powder of black-lead, and rub it on the painted parts until tbey are of a beautiful brightness. BLADDER. It is a curious fact that bladder fastened over the mouth of a bottle of wine will allow its watery portion to pass through, but not its spirituous portion, so that the wine di- minishes in quantity, but increases in strength. Bladder also excludes air and moisture from entering into a vessel over the mouth of which it is fastened. Bladders for such purposes require to be thus prepared :—Soak them for twenty-four hours in water, of which each quart has dissolved in it \ oz. of bleaching powder (chloride of lime). Scrape off all the fatty and membraneous parts; then wash the bladders two ,or three times in fresh quantities of clean water; blow them out and I'oU them, pressing them hard, and re-blowing them as they stretch. They thus increase very much in size; then hang them up in a dry place. BLANC (1). A mixture of butter, salt, water, and a slice of lemon. Another blanc is as fol- lows :—Take 1 lb. of beef suet, cut into dice; 1 lb. of fat bacon, also cut into dice; ^ lb. of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, X or 2 onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf, and spice. BLANC (2). Take i lb. of beef fat, i lb. of bacon, \ lb. of fresh butter, 2 carrots, 2 onions cut in half, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few bay leaves, the juice of a lemon, some salt, whole pepper, and 2 glasses of stock. Boil the whole for some time, and it will then be fit for use. BLANC (3). Put 1 lb. of grated bacon, 1 lb. of fat, ^ lb. of butter, 2 lemons, cut in slices and the white taken out, 2 bay leaves, 2 cloves, 4 carrots, cut into dice, 4 onions, and a very small quantity of water, into a saucepan, and boil the whole till it is reduced. You must take care to keep stirring, to prevent your blanc from catching. When all the moisture is sucked up, and all the fat is melted, moisten it with water ; add some clarified salt; let it boil, and strain it. It is then ready for use. BLANCH. To put anything in boiling water for a short time, in some cases letting the water boil up once or twice, is called blanching. BLANC-MANGE (1). To 1 oz. of picked isinglass, with a bit of cinnamon, put 1 pint of water ; boil them till the isinglass is melted ; put to it f pint of cream, 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, blanched and beaten, and a bit of lemon-peel. Sweeten it; stir it over the fire; let it boil; strain, and let it cool; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds. Garnish to your fancy. Blanc-mange may be coloured green by adding spinach-juice; or red, by a bit of cochineal in brandy, letting it stand half an hour, and straining it; and yellow, with saffron. BLANC-MANGE (2). Boil for a few minutes 1^ pint of new milk with 1 oz. of picked isin-BL A BLA [ ] glass (if in summer, 1J oz.), the rind of a lemon peeled Aery thin, a little cinnamon, and a blade of mace, and 2^ ozs. of lump sugar. Blanch and pound 8 or 10 bitter and | oz. of sweet al- monds very fine, with 1 spoonful of rose water, and mix them with the milk. Strain it through a lawn sieve or napkin into a basin, with ^ pint of good cream. Let it stand half an hour; pour it into another basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom, and when nearly cold, put it into a mould. When wanted set it in the centre of a dish, and garnish with slices of orange. About half a gill of noyeau may be substituted for the almonds. BLANC-MANGE (3). Boil till dissolved, in a large tea-cupful of water, f oz. of isinglass; when milkwarm, add it to 1 quart of rich cream, with a stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, 2 or 3 laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it over the fire, and let it boil for two or three minutes ; strain it through a bit of muslin into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold; then put it into°an earthenware mould or shape. The follow- ing day dip the mould into warm water for a minute or so, clap it with the hand to loosen the edge, place the glass or china dish over the mould, and turn it out quickly upon the dish. As much CO wheel stock as will fill the shape may be substituted for the isinglass. BLANC-MANGE (4). Blanch and pound with a little ratafia or rose water 2 ozs. of sweet and 6 bitter almonds; dissolve f oz. of isin- glass ; add it, when milkwarm, to 1 quart of good cream (half milk and half cream may be used); mix in the almonds the peel of a small lemon and a bit of cinnamon; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; let the mixture stand for two or three hours; put it into a saucepan, stir it con- stantly, and let it boil for six or eight minutes ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and stir it till nearly cold; then pour it into a mould. BLANC-MANGE (5). Blanch and pound 1 oz. of sweet almonds with 1 glass of sherry and 1 table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; add it to I oz. of isinglass dissolved in ^ pint of water, and boil it till the flavour of the almonds be extracted, stirring it all the time; strain it through a bit of thin muslin, and mix with 1 quart of good cream; stir it till quite cold, and pour it into a mould. BLANC-MANGE (with Fruit). Boil oz. of isinglass, and when quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool for half an hour; skim, and pour it, free from sediment, into another pan; then whisk with it 1 table-spoonful of cedral;, and i lb. of currant jelly, strawberry or raspberry jam, and when it begins to jelly fill the moulds. BLANC-MANGE (without Isinglass). Pre- pare your almonds in the S'^.me manner as in the receipt for French Blanc-mange, but only use half the quantity specified in that receipt, and likewise leave out the isinglass. Then put into the pan the whites of 4 eggs, and whip them till they begin to whiten ; then add your blanc-mange, and place your pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip your preparation until the eggs are thoroughly mixed with the almonds, and the whole begins to turn to a thick cream ; when it is of a proper consistence pour it into little cups, and serve either hot or cold. When you wish to serve this entremet in little cups, and of any flavour you please, you must only make use of two-thirds of the almonds named in the receipt for French Blanc-mange. BLANC-MANGE, AMERICAN. Mix a pint of cold water with 2 ozs. of arrowroot; let it settle for fifteen minutes; pour off the water, and add 1 table-spoonful of laurel water, and a little sugar; sweeten 1 quart of new milk, boil it with a little cinnamon, and half the peel ot a lemon ; pick out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the boiling milk upon the arrowroot, stir ring it all the time. Put it into a mould, and turn it out on the following day. BLANC-MANGE, ARROWROOT. See Arrowroot. BLANC-MANGE, DUTCH. Wash H oz. of isinglass, pour H pint of boiling water over it, let it stand for an hour, and then boil it for twenty minutes ; strain, and when it is nearly cold, add the beaten yolks of 6 eggs, 1 pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of 1 and juice of 2 lemons, with a stick of cinnamon, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it over the fire till it begins to simmer, but do not allow it to boil; pick out the peel and cinna- mon, pour it into a basin, stir it till nearly cold, and put it into a mould. BLANC-MANGE EGGS. Make a small hole at the ends of 4 or 5 large eggs, and let out all the contents carefully; wash the shells, drain, and fill them with blanc-mange; place them in a deep dish, filled with rice and barley, to keep them steady, and when cold, gently break and peel off the shell. Cut the peel of a lemon into delicately-fine shreds, lay them in a glass dish, and put in the eggs, or serve them in a glass dish with a pink cream round them. BLANC-MANGE, FRENCH. Blanch lib. of sweet and 20 bitter almonds ; drain them in a sieve, and afterwards dry them by rubbing them in a napkin ; pound them in a mortar, continually moistening them with ^ tea-spoon- ful of water at a time to prevent their oiling. When they are pounded as fine as possible, take them out of the mortar, and put them into a pan; then, with a silver spoon, beat up your almonds . gradually with 5 glasses of clear water; after this spread a napkin over an ovaiBLE C 324 ] BLA dish, and put your almonds upon it; tTien gather up the corners of your napkin, and wring it very tight, to press out all the milk from the al- monds ; then put into this milk 12 ozs. of loaf sugar, hrokeia into small pieces. When the sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a napkin, and then add to it 1 oz. of clarified isin- glass rather warmer than lukewarm, and when the whole is well incorporated together, pour it into your mould, which should be previously put into 10 lbs. of pounded ice. When your blanc- mange is ready to serve, which will be two hours after it has been put into the mould, you must take it out of the mould according to the rule prescribed in Blanc-mange (3). BLANC-MANGE FKITTERS. Put Jib. of ground rice into a stewpan; mix with it 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, and 2 ozs. of sugar; let the whole boil two hours, stirring it frequently. When well thickened, take it off, and add a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange flowers, shred, and a little salt. The whole being well mixed, spread it over a floured dish ; shake flour over it, and when cold, cut it into little bits, and make into balls, with your hands floured; fry on lard, and when dark-coloured, sugar and serve. BLANC-MANGE, RIBBON. Put into a mould some white blanc-mange about 2 inches deep, and when cold, put alternately clarified calves' feet jelly or Dutch blanc-mange. BLANC-MANGE, RICE. Put Itea-cupful of whole rice into the least water possible till the rice almost bursts; then add -J- pint of good milk or thin cream, and boil it till it is quite a mash, stirring it the whole time it is on the fire that it may not burn ; dip the mould in cold water, and do not dry it; put in the rice, and let it stand until quite cold, when it will come easil}' out of the mould. This dish is much approved of; it is eaten with cream or custard and pre- served fruits : raspberries are best. It should be made the day before it is wanted that it may get firm. BLANC-MANGE, WELSH. See Budram. BLANKETS. The excellence of these de- pends upon their weight, closeness of fabric, and quantity of wool they contain, for on these qualities depend their durability and warmth. They are made of various sizes, but the largest are 15 quarters long and 14 quarters wide. The long-stapled foreign wool is usually employed for making the best blankets, as it not only enables all the above-named good qualities to be secured, but a long, handsome pile also. Dewsbury, Chichester, and Witney have been or are celebrated for the manufacture of blankets, and the name of Witney blankets is still applied to those of excellence. To keep spare blankets constantly well aired there is no better plan than to place them be- tween the mattress and feather bed. When any contagious disease has been under- gone the blankets of the patient's bed are most readily disinfected by putting them into a lai-ge brick oven some hours after the bread has been removed. Let the floor of the oven be swept, and sheets of brown paper laid upon it; on these spread out the blankets as widely and lightly as possible; leave the door of the oven open. If an oven cannot be employed, exposm'e to the kitchen fire, or washing the blankets in cold water must be adopted; but the last is to be avoided, because blankets are both washed and dried with great difiiculty. They must be put into lathery water and not have the soap rubbed upon them; must be wrung thoroughly, and dried very gently, neither before a fire nor in strong sunshine. Before they are quite dry they should be folded very smooth and pressed. BLANQUET BE VEAU. When a shoulder of veal has been served roasted, cut up what remains in pieces, and flatten them with the blade of a knife ; pare off the brown skin, then mince the meat; thin some rich gra\y; put in the veal, but do not let it boil; thicken with yolks of eggs, adding thereto some juice of lemon and a little butter. Minced parsley and young onions may be added at pleasure. BLEACHING is rendering articles white composed of cotton, linen, wool, straw, or silk. Cotton and linen are best bleached by washiii;^ and rinsing them thoroughly, and then dipping them in water containing a little chloride of lime or bleaching powder. The best proportions are 2 ozs. of the powder to 3 pints of water. The articles must remain in the liquid an hour, and then be thoi'oughly rinsed in two or three changes of clean, cold water. Flannel and other woollens are best bleached by scouring with fullers' earth and lathery water. If bleached by exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur, the wool is rendered hard and hai'sh. This harshness is removed by soaking in cold, lathery water, but then the yellow colour of the wool returns. Silk, usually, may be bleached by boiling in a water made lathery by white soap, and by repeated rinsings subsequently. Exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur also bleaches silk, after which the rinsings must be immediate and many. Straw may be bleached by soaking in a solution of bleaching powder, as directed for cotton. Soaking, also, in water con- taining oxalic acid, and exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur will also bleach it. One ounce of oxalic acid to a pint of water is a good proportion. BLEBS are the bubbles which stand on proof spirits in a phial when shaken. When they do not stand it is under proof. There are composi- tions for making them mthout strength.BLE BLE L 325 J BLEEDING: To Stop. Bleeding from wounds is easily stopped or restrained by- pressure, but whilst this is being done send for a surgeon. The best mode of obtaining the pressure is for some one to place his finger on the bleeding vessel or vessels, and then to tie a piece of strong cord round the limb, and twist the string tightly by means of a piece of stick passed through it. BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. Bleeding at the nose comes on without any previous warn- ing, and is frequently a consequence of a full habit of body and of a sanguine temperament. Sometimes it is preceded by pain and heaviness in the head, ringing in the ears, flushing of the face, heat, and itching of the nostrils, throbbing of the temporal arteries, quick pulse, &c. Fe- males are much less subject to it than males. It may arise from various causes, among which are peculiar smallness of the vessels of the part, &c., heat, violent exertion, blows, and particular postures of the body which give the blood a stronger determination to the head, &c. As, however, this discharge from the nose proves salutary in some disorders, such as vertigo, headache arising from too great a quantity of blood in the vessels of the head; and is critical in others, such as inflammation of the brain, apoplexy, inflammatory fevers, &c., it should be duly weighed at the time the occurrence takes place whether it really be a disease demanding immediate interference, or an effort of nature to remove some other disorder, consequently not requiring any interruption as long as the patient is not weakened by it. Nor should it be suddenly stopped, even in persons of good health, when not carried to any considerable extent. When, on the other hand, it arises in elderly people, and returns too frequently, or continues till the patient becomes faint, it should be stopped as soon as possible. Should it re- quire to be stopped, the patient ought to be freely exposed to cool air, and placed in an erect posture, with his body somewhat inclined backward, and he should drink freely of cold liquids. Immersing the head in cold water is recommended ; snuffing diluted vinegar fre- quently up the nose, or an astringent wash miay be thrown repeatedly up that nostril whence the blood proceeds, composed as follows:—Take powdered alum, 4 drachms; rose water, 12 ozs.; distilled vinegar, 2 ozs. Mix them for use. Or, muriatic tincture of iron, 3 drachms; dis- tilled water, 6 ozs. Mix and use them in the same manner. If the bleeding should still continue after these measures, a dossil of lint, dipped in a solution of the sulphate of copper, or in Ruspinis styptic, may be introduced up the nostril; or in a portion of Eaton's sti/ptic, composed as follows: — Take calcined green vitriol, 1 drachm; proof spirit, tinged yellow with a little oak bark, 2 pints. One of the most powerful styptics is charcoal, and in slight cases of bleeding from the nose it may be used in the manner of snuff. It may also be used by means of tents or dossils of soft linen, small enough to be admitted up the nostril, first moistened with water, and then dipped in charcoal powder. To assist these, cold water may be sprinkled on the patient's face, and his genitals now and then im- mersed in the same fluid. There are many other means resorted to in order to arrest profuse and inveterate bleeding from the nose ; but, when it exceeds the bounds of moderation and becomes ungovernable, it is too serious an affair to be left in inexperienced hands. When, however, bleeding at the nose has ceased of its own ac- cord, or has been stopped by artificial means, such as plugs, tents, &c., the patient must not remove the clotted blood or the tents in the nostril, but should allow them to come away of themselves. He should also be caxeful to apply nothing of a stimulating nature, nor to blow his nose with any degree of violence. In fact, he should do this as seldom and as gently as possible. When it occurs in people of a full habit of body the frequent use of cooling medicines, with temperance in diet, is recommended ; and where it may be occasioned by too great a flow of blood to the head, occasional bleeding from the arm and leeches to the temple will be serviceable.— [Forsyth's Manual.) BLESSED THISTLE (Centam-ea lenedicta). This plant belongs to Syagenesia Polygamia frustranea of Linnaeus, and to the Composites of the Natural System. Dr. Duncan remarks upon it that this is an annual plant, indigenous in the Grecian islands, and cultivated in our gardens. The leaves have a very dui'able bitter taste, accompanied with an ungrateful flavour, from which they are in a great measure freed by diying. Water quickly extracts, even without heat, the more grateful bitter. A strong decoc- tion is very nauseous and offensive to the stomach. Eectified spirits acquire a very pleasant bitter taste, which remains uninjured in the extract. This plant is now little employed. The nau- seous decoction is sometimes used to provoke vomiting, and a strong infusion to promote tiie operation of other emetics; but good effects have been frequently experienced from a slight infusion of carduus, in loss of appetite, where the stomach was injured by irregularities. A stronger infusion, made in cold or warm water, if drunk freely, and the patient kept warm, occa- sions a plentiful perspiration, and promotes the secretions in general. An extract prepared by evaporating the expressed juice, with the addi- tion of a little alcohol to prevent it from be coming mouldy, has been sti'ongly recommendedBLI [ 126 ] BLI in the catan'li of children. The seeds are emulsive. From 1 to 2 drachms of the infusion is the usual dose. BLINDS. To prevent these hlowing out under the open sashes in windy weather rings should be fixed in each end of the bottom rod, and guide-lines, fastened to the top and bottom of the window-frame, be passed through the rings. Whether blinds be put up by a car- penter or one of the household it is usual to fasten the top of the blind to the roller with tacks before it is sewn on. The consequence is, that in the event of rain beating in upon the upper part, the tacks rust, and frequently cause stains of ironmould to appear through four or five folds of the hoUand. To remedy this let the roller be carefully pierced quite through, straight and even, with a small gimlet, in five or seven equidistant spaces, so that a large needle and coarse thread can be passed through it. The blind may thus be retained in its position with even greater facility than can be accomplished by means of nails. Many persons are accustomed to have their blinds entirely un- made prior to their being washed; but if they be carefully mangled, we see no necessity to cause so much extra work. When new ones are required it is essential to know that the selvages of the holland must be cut off, or the blinds will hang unequally, from the con- traction of the sides, down which the selvages would extend. BLISTER. A blister is a local inflamma- tion, accompanied by the formation or collection of serum in bladders of the outer skin, and is of the most imminent service in many complaints. The agent usually employed for blistering is the cantharides, or Spanish fly; but we are pos- sessed of a great variety of indigenous plants which might be effectually substituted. Hence we recommend, from experience, the following: —1. Mustard seed mixed with vinegar sufficient to convert it into a thick paste, to be spread upon linen; 2. The fresh root of the horseradish, grated, or in fine shavings ; 3. The bruised leaves of the different species of the ranunculus, or crowfoot; 4. The leaves of the Polygonum hydropiper, or water-pepper, growing wild on the banks of rivulets; 5. The most powerful of all indigenous vegetables, the Daphne Mezereum, or spurge olive, every part of which is extremely acrid, but the rind is-preferably used for blisters. AVhether fresh or dried this rind should be pre- viously steeped for a few hours in strong vine- gar, and then a piece about 1 inch broad and 2 or 3 inches long tied over-night to the part. After it has sufficiently drawn, the blistered place is covered with an ivy leaf, and a similar vesicatory is applied contiguous to the former. In this manner it is continued, according to particular circumstances, especially in chronic diseases, till the desired effect is attained. Where no time is to be lost, we advise the use of mustard seed, as before described, with the addition of a little salt, which greatly increases its efficacy. These cataplasms are often more proper than the blisters prepared with Spanish flies, because the former operate more speedily, and act with less violence on the fluids than the latter. Hence they are of eminent service to promote critical eruptions ; to prevent the small- pox from breaking out on the face, when ap- plied at the commencement of the disease, either to the calves of the legs or the soles of the feet; to mitigate the pain arising from internal in- flammations; to drive catarrhal and rheumatic humours fi'om the more essential organs of life to the proximate external parts, and to rouse the indolent powers of nature. In the most acute pains of the head, and the toothache pro- ceeding from a rheumatic cause, as well as in inflammatory affections of the eyes, such plasters may be usefully applied to the neck or the arm ; in inflammations of the chest, to the breast and between the shoulders; in apoplectic fits, to the temples, &c. In paralytic diseases it is of the utmost consequence to place the blister in that direction which corresponds with the situation of the nerves in the part affected ; and, in rheu- matic disorders, such places should be preferred as contain nerves connected with the painful part immediately under the skin. Thus in the most acute lumbago, or sciatica, it would be of little use to blister the hip or thigh, where the nerves are situated deep in the muscles ; but by applying a vesicatory to the sole of the foot on the same side, we may promise almost certain relief. In all inflammatory, and especially in nervous affections, attended with a small, feeble pulse, and where the powers of nature are ra- pidly declining, the use of blisters is very exten- sive. Their operation is, in a great measure, mechanical; as the first action is that of stimu- lating the vessels of the skin, inducing the blood to flow from the part most affected by inflamma- tion to the surface; thus exhausting the prin- ciple of irritability, and collecting the serum, or watery part of the vital fluid, under the cuticle. We shall farther observe, that in acute and dangerous diseases, where it is often necessary to repeat the application of blisters, the new one should never be delayed till the former is com- pletely healed. But, with respect to the time they are to be left on the skin, much depends on the degree of irritability in the patient, as well as the relative strength of the plaster. Some constitutions, of an ii'ritable fibre, exne- rience its effects in less than half an hour, while in others it may remain four, six, or eight hours without raising the skin. In opening aBLO BLI [ 12T ] blister it is not necessary to cut away the epi- dermis, or scarf skin, and to cause unnecessary pain and irritation, as a single longituditial in- cision is sufficient to give vent to the collected humour. BHsters sometimes operate on the urinary canal, and produce a painful strangury, or difficulty of malting urine. This effect may be remedied by the internal use of camphor, assisted by diluent and agglutinating emulsions, such as strong decoctions of barley, linseed, solutions of gum arabic, &c.; and to prevent such accidents, the blister itself may be mixed with camphor. If strangury is occasioned it is effectually relieved by an anodyne injection thrown into the rectum, consisting of 4 ozs. or 6 ozs. of thin tepid gruel, with 30 or 40 drops of laudanum. If, on the other hand, they will not draw, the skin ought to be previously rubbed with strong vinegar; or, if their action be too violent, a little of the extract of henbane may be added to the composition. We think it our duty to warn the reader against the rash use of blisters in which the Spanish fly is the principal ingredient. In plethoric persons, or those of a full habit, they increase the circulation of the blood, and ought to be applied only after the necessary evacua- tions have been strictly attended to. In dis- eases of a putrid tendency, such as low fevers and bilious diarrhoeas, they are pernicious, be- cause they stimulate and spread the contagion over the whole frame. Lastly, when the hu- mours are obviously in a state of dissolution, which is evident from the sallow and lifeless complexion of dropsical persons, blisters are not unfrequently productive of incurable morti- fication These fatal effects, however, seldom or never take place from the application of mustard seed or horseradish. The following are some of the best prepara- tions for raising blisters, besides those already particularised :—• Blister, Liquid. Powdered cantharides, 1 oz.; flour of mustard, 1 oz.; oil of turpentine, 4ozs.; olive oil, 4 ozs. Mix all together. It is not very effective until made two or three days. This is rubbed into the place where a blister is wished to be raised. Blisters of Spanish Flies. Powdered cantharides, 1 oz.; lard, 2 ozs.; oil of origanum, 10 drops. Mix thoroughly; spread thinly on a piece of diachylon plaster or of washleather of the appropriate size and shape, and dust a little of the powdered cantharides over the surface. Blister, Tartar Emetic. Mix thoroughly 2 drachms of powdered tartar emetic with 1 oz. of lard. Rub well into the place where the blister is wished to rise. Applied to the chest this has been found very beneficial in hooping- cough, and other disorders of the lungs and their appendages. The eruption thus caused should be kept up for some time by applying more of the ointment. When the pustules, or pimples, thus caused are very painful and inflamed, relief is afforded by applying to them a poultice made of bread and milk. Blister Tissue. White wax, 4 ozs.; ethe- real extract of cantharides, 2 ozs. Melt the wax by a gentle heat, and as soon as liquid mix with it the extract. Spread a very thin coat over oiled silk or waxed paper, and when dry brush over the surface a little tincture of ben- zoin. A piece of this tissue to be applied like a common blister. BLISTERS, MANAGEMENT OF. If a blister is not spread on diachylon plaster, and a margin of the diachylon left bare all round, the blister will require to be kept in its place by strips of adhesive plaster. A blister usually requires to be left on twelve hours, but may be removed as soon as bladders of serum are fully raised. Do not break their skin. The bladders are then to be cut with and opened by sharp- pointed scissors, and the serum pressed out by the aid of an old cambric pocket-handkerchief. A piece of linen dipped in sweet oil is a good covering for the blistered part. This part, sometimes, is very difficult to heal, requiring poulticing and strapping over with basilicon plaster. The attendant symptoms must then be watched. To keep a blister open, or dis- charging, it must have applied to it a little of the liquid blister. For dressing a blister re- quired to heal, a very good ointment is formed as follows:—Olive oil, 2 ozs. ; white wax, 1 oz.; spermaceti, J oz. Melt them together and stir until cold. Spread this on a piece of linen and cover over the blistered part. BLOND : To Clarify for Table. Whip the whites of 4 eggs in a large pipkin, and put the blond to them; set the whole on the fire in a stewpan; continue to whip till nearly boil- ing, when it will have become white; then put it in the stove with fire over and under. When quite clear, strain it through a sieve. BLOND (in Veal Gravy). It is made as follows :—Put a few slices of lean ham into a thick stewpan, and lay over them some slices of lean veal; half cover the meat with jelly stock ; stew it over a brisk fire, taking care it does not burn. When the broth is reduced, thrust a knife into the meat that the gravy may run out, and then stew it more gently till brown, turn- ing the meat frequently. When of a dark red colour, moisten with hot stock; season with shred mushrooms, parsley, and green onions, and when it has boiled an hour, skim and strain it thi'ough a tammy to clarify for use. BLOND LACE. When laid by for any time this should be wrapped in blue paper; forBLO BLO [ 128 ] tliis, better than any other material, keeps it from becoming yellow. If it becomes creased and tumbled whilst attached to any article of dress, breathe upon it or hold it in gentle steam issu- ing from the spout of a teakettle, and then shake it. This does not turn it yellow as iron- ing is apt to do. The blond need not be taken off from the dress to do this. When blond requires cleaning do not take the blond off from the quilling; fold it smoothly in four lengths, and, if scalloped, let the scallops rest e.xactly over each other. Tack the lengths together, beginning along the scalloped edge. Wet it ■with very clean cold, soft water; soap it well •with common soap, either yellow or white. Do not rub hard, and lather lightly. Use two or three waters and latherings if the lace be very dirty. Finally, rinse in soft cold water, and, after all the soap is rinsed out, dip the lace into a quart of highly-blued water, in which about a tea-spoonful of made-starch has been mixed. Squeeze the lace, and place it between the folds of a cloth. When moderately dried take out the tacking-threads, unfold it, and iron across the lace, from the quilling to the scallops or edging. Take off the quilling, and then iron the blond or lace lengthwise. Do not strain it, but roll it loosely on a card until wanted. White gauze ribbon may be cleaned by the same process. BLOOD LETTING, or Bleeding. No operation of surgery is so frequently necessary as bleeding ; it ought therefore to be very gene- rally understood. Bleeding is proper at the beginning of all inflammatory fevers, as pleu- risies, pneumonites, &c. It is likewise proper In all topical inflammations, as those of the intestines, womb, bladder, stomach, kidneys, throat, eyes, &c., as also in asthma in certain cases, headaches, acute rheumatism, apoplexy, epilepsy, and bloody flux under certain states. Alter falls, blows, bruises, or any violent hurt received either externally or internally, bleeding is necessary. But in all disorders proceeding from relaxation of the solids, and an impoverished state of the blood, as dropsies, cacochymies, &c., bleeding is improper. Bleeding for topical inflammations ought al- ways to be performed as near the part affected as possible. When this can be done with a, lancet it is to be preferred to any other method ; hut where a vein cannot be found, recourse must lie had to leeches or cupping. The quantity of blood to be taken away must always be regulated by tne strength, age, consti- tution, manner of life, and other circumstances relating to the patient. It would be ridiculous to suppose that a child could bear to lose as much blood as a grown person, or that a deli- cate lady should be bled to the same extent as a robust man. The mode of bleeding most frequently prac- tised is that of opening a vein, and it may be done in the arm, ancle, jugular vein, frontal vein, veins under the tongue, and on the back of the hand, &c. In whatever part, however, venesection is performed, a bandage must be applied between that part and the heart. As it is often necessaiy, in order to raise the vein, to make the bandage pretty tight, it will be proper in such cases, as soon as the blood besnns to flow, to slacken it a little. The bandage ought to be applied at least an inch or an inch and a half from the place where the puncture is in- tended to be made. Thus, the return of the blood through the vein is stopped, the vein swells, becomes conspicuous, and, when opened, bleeds much more freely than would otherwise happen. Persons not skilled in anatomy ought never to bleed with the lancet. The operation is per- formed by making the wound in an oblique direction, neither longitudinally along the vein, nor directly across it. After the person exe- cuting it has placed his thumb an inch and a half below the bandage, he is to pass the point of the lancet gradually forward into the side of the vein. As soon as he is sensible, from want of resistance, that he has got within it, the incision should be made obliquely forward. The instrument is immediately to be withdrawn. Wlien the quantity of blood wished for is extracted, the bandage must be slackened. The edges of the orifice ought to be cleared from particles of blood that may chance to adhere to them. They are then to be put together in the closest manner, and retained by a bit of ad- hesive plaster or a bandage until the wound is healed. Bleeding over an artery or tendon should be avoided. The former may be distinguished by its beating, the latter by its likeness to a chord. The arm is generally the part where the opera- tion is best performed. Any quantity of blood drawn below 12ozs. is considered as a small bleeding. It may be deemed copious should the discharge exceed 20 ozs. Some attention to the blood when drawn will occasionally direct as to the propriety of repeat- ing the bleeding. If the coagulable lymph be superabundant, there will arise on the surface a thick buffy coat. The blood will also be con- siderably cupped. This appearance, showing active powers of coagulation, indicates strength in the solid. If the constitution is weak, the blood lies flat in the dish or receptacle. It possesses also less tenacity. It was formerly a rule, even among those who had the character of being regular practitioners, to bleed then* patients in certain diseases till they fainted Surely a more ridiculous ruleBLO BLO [ 129 ] could not be proposed. One person will faint at the very sight of a lancet, while another will lose almost the whole blood of his body before he faints. Swooning depends more upon the state of the mind than the body: besides, it may often be occasioned or prevented by the manner in which the operation is performed. Children are generally bled by leeches. This, though sometimes necessary, is a very trouble- some and uncertain practice. It is impossible to know what quantity of blood is taken away by leeches; besides, the bleeding is often very difficult to stop, and the wounds are not easily healed. Would those who practise bleeding take a little more pains, and accustom them- selves to bleed children, they would not find it such a difficult operation as they imagine. Certain vulgar prejudices with regard to bleeding still prevail among the country people. They talk, for instance, of head-veins, heart- veins, breast-veins, &c., and believe that bleed- ing in these will certainly cure all diseases of the parts whence they are supposed to come, without considering that, all the blood-vessels arise from the heart, and return to it again; for which reason, unless in topical inflammations, it signifies very little from what part of the body blood is taken. But this, though a foolish pre- judice, is not near so hurtful as the vulgar notion that the first bleeding will perform wonders. This belief makes them often postpone the ope- ration when necessary, in order to reserve it for some more important occasion, and, when they think themselves in extreme danger, they fly to it for relief, whether it be proper or not. Bleed- ing at certain stated periods or seasons has likewise bad effects. It is a common notion that bleeding in the feet draws the humours downwards, and, conse- quently, cures diseases of the head and other superior parts; but we have already observed, that in all topical affections the blood ought to be drawn as near the part as possible. When it is necessary, however, to bleed in the foot or hand, as the veins are small and the bleeding is apt to stop too soon, the part ought to be im- mersed in warm water, and kept there till a sufficient quantity of blood be let. All the apparatus essential for blood-letting, on the part of the patient, is a bandage or fillet, two or more small pieces of folded linen for compresses, a basin to receive the blood, and a little clean water and a towel. The bandage ought to be about a yard in length and nearly two inches broad, a common riband or garter being frequently employed. The compresses are made by doubling a bit of linen rag about two inches square. On the part of the surgeon it is neces- sary for him to have a good lancet, of proper ehape ; for, if the shoulders of the lancet be too broad, it will not readily enter the vein, and when it does enter, it invariably makes a large opening, which is not always desirable. If the lancet be too spear-pointed, an incautious ope- rator would often run a risk of transfixing the vein, and wounding the artery beneath it. More, however, depends on the mode of introducing the lancet than on its shape. During the operation of bleeding the patient may lie down, sit down, or stand up, each of which positions may be chosen as circumstances may require. If the patient be apt to faint froin the loss of a small quantity of blood, and such fainting can answer no surgical purpose, it is " best to bleed him in a recumbent posture; but when the person is strong and vigorous, there is little occasion for this precaution, and a sitting posture is to be preferred as the most conve- nient, both for the surgeon and patient. In fat subjects the large veins at the bend of the arm are sometimes totally imperceptible, notwithstanding the fillet is tightly applied, the limb is put in warm water, and everything done to make those vessels as turgid as possible. Under these circumstances, if the surgeon has not had much experience in the practice of venesection, he will do well to be content with opening one of the veins of the back of the hand, after putting the member for some time in warm water, and applying a ligature round the wrist. In children a suflicient quantity of blood cannot always be obtained by venesection, and, in this event, the free application of leeches, and, occasionally, the puncture of the temporal arteiy, are the only effectual methods. One of the most common ill consequences of bleeding in the arm is a thrombus, or ecchy- mosis, that is, a small tumour round the orifice, and occasioned by the blood insinuating itself into the adjoining cellular substance at the time this fluid is escaping from the vein. Changing the posture of the arm will frequently hinder the thrombus from increasing in size, so as to obstruct the evacuation of blood. The best ap- plications for promoting the absorption of these tumours are those containing spirit, vinegar, or muriate of ammonia. Compresses wetted with any lotion of this sort may be advantageously put on the swelling, and confined there with a slack bandage. The integuments and subjacent cellular sub- stances, the absorbents, the veins, &c., are all liable to inflammation, in consequence of bleed- ing, a nerve also may be wounded, all requiring proper surgical treatment. BLOOD, SPITTING OF, or Hemoptysis. We mean here to treat of that discharge of blood from the lungs only which is called an hamoptoe, or spiltini) of blood. Persons of a slender make and a lax fibre, who have long necks and straightBLO [ 130 ] BLO breasts, are most liable to this disease. It is most cominou iu the spring, and generally at- tacks people before they arrive at tiie prime or middle period of life. It is a common observa- tion, that those who have been subject to bleed- ing at the nose when young, are afterwards most liable to an haemoptoe. An haemoptoe may proceed from excess of blood, from a peculiar weakness of the lungs, or a bad conformation of the breast. It is often occasioned by excessive drinking, running, wrestling, singing, or speaking aloud. Such as have weak lungs ought to avoid all vi(deut exertions of those organs, as they value life. They should likewise guard against violtnt passions, excessive drinking, and everything that occa- sions a rapid circulation of the blood. This disease may likewise proceed from wounds of the lungs. These may either be received from without, or they may be occasioned by hard bodies getting into the windpipe, and so falling down upon the lungs, and hurting those tender organs. The obstruction of any customary evacu- ation may occasion a spitting of blood; as neg- lect of bleeding or purging at the usual seasons, the stoppage of the bleeding piles in men, or the menses in women, &c. It may likewise proceed from a polypus, a scirrhous concretion, or anything that obstructs the circulation of the blood in the lungs. It is often the effect of a long and violent cough, in which case it is generally the forerunner of a consumption. A violent degree of cold suddenly applied to the external part of the body will occasion an haemoptoe. It may likewise be occasioned by breathing air which is too much rare6ed to be able properly to expand the lungs. This is often the case with those vvho work in hot places, as glass-houses, or the like. It is likewise said to happen to such as ascend to the top of very high mountains, as the Peak of Teneriff, &c. It arises mostly between the age of sixteen and twenty-five. Spitting of blood is not usually attended with danger, nor is it always to be considered as a primary disease. It is often only a sj^mptom, and iu some diseases not an unfavourable one. This is the case iu pleurisies and sundry fevers. In dropsy, scurvy, or con- sumption, it is a bad symptom, and shows that the lungs are ulcerated. Spitting of blood is generally preceded by a sense of weight and oj)pression of the bi'east, a dry, tickling cough, hoarseness, and a difficulty of breathing. Sometimes it is ushered in with shivering, coldness of the exti'emities, costive- ness, great lassitude, flatulence, pain of the back and loins, &c. As these show a general stricture upon the vessels, and a tendency of the blood to inflammation, they are commonly the forerunners of a \erj copious discharge. The above symptoms do not attend a discharge of blood from the gums or fauces, by which means they may always be distinguished from an haemoptoe. Sometimes the blood that is spit up is thin, and of a florid red colour; and at other times it is thick, and of a dark or blackish colour. Nothing, however, can be inferred froru this circumstance but that the blood has lain a longer or shorter time in the breast before it was discharged. Spitting of blood in a strong, healthy person, of a sound constitution, is ni. t very dangerous; but when it attacks the tender and delicate, or persons of a weak, lax fibre, it is with difficidty removed. When it proceeds from a scirrhus or polypus of the lungs it is bad. The danger is greater when the discharge proceeds fi'om the rupture of a large vessel than of a small one. When the extravasated blood is not spit up, but lodges in the breast, it cor- rupts, and greatly increases the danger. When the blood proceeds from an ulcer in the lungs it is generally fatal. The patient ought to be kept cool and easy. Everything that heats the blood or quickens the circulation increases the danger. The mind ought likewise to be soothed, and every occa- sion of exciting the passions avoided. The ditt should be soft, cooling, and slender; as rice boiled with milk, sinall broths, barley-gruels, panado, &c. The diet, in this case, can scarcely be too low ; even water-gruel is sufficient to support the patient for some days. All strong liquors must be avoided. The patient may drink milk and water, barley-water, whey, butter- milk, and such like aliments. Everything, how- ever, should be drank cold, and in small quan- tities at a time. He should observe the strictest silence, or at least speak with a very low voice. This, like the other involuntary discharges of blood, ought not to be suddenly stopped by astringent medicines. Mure mischief is often done by these than if it were suffered to go on. It may, however, proceed so far as to weaken the patient, and even endanger his life, in which case ftroper means must be used for restraining it. The body should be kept gently open by la.Kadve diet, as roasted apples, stewed prunes, and such like. If these should not have the deitred effect, a tea-spoonful of the lenitive electuary may be taken two or three times a day as is found necessary. If the bleeding proves violent, ligatures may be applied to the e.itremities; cooling purgatives, such as manna, tamarinds, phosphorated soda, sulphate of pot- ash, refrigerants, &c. Take infusion of roses, 1^ oz. ; Epsom salts, 3 drachms. Make a draught: to be taken twice a day. Or, take infusion of roses, lioz.; nitre, 15 grains; tincture of opium, 10 drops. Make a draught: to be taken every fourth horn'. Or, take creauiBLO [ 131 ] BLO of tartai", 3 draclmis ; purified nitre, 2 drachms. Make 4 powders: 1 to be taken every fourth hour. If the patient be hot or feverish, bleed- ing and small doses of nitre will be of use; 1 scruple or ^ drachm of nitre may be taken in a cup of his ordinar3' drink twice or thrice a day. His drink may likewise be sharpened with acids, as juice of lemon, or a few drops of sul- phuric acid, sufficiently diluted with water; or he may take frequently a cup of the tincture of roses. Bathing the feet and legs in lukewarm water has likewise a very good effect in this disease. Opiates, too, are sometimes bene- ficial, but these must be administered with caution. Ten or twelve drops of laudanum may be given in a cup of barley-water twice a day, and continued for some time, provided they be found beneficial. The conserve of roses is likewise a very good medicine in this case, provided it be taken in sufficient quantity, aud persisted in long enough. It may be taken to the quantity of 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. a day; and, if the patient be troubled with a cough, it should be made into an electuary with balsamic syrup and a little of the syrup of poppies, or a bolus may be given in this form :—Take powdered alum, 3 grains; extract of catechu, 10 grains; conserve of roses, sufficient to make a bolus. To be taken every four hours, washing it down with 3 table-spoonsful of the infusion of roses. If stronger astringents be necessary, 15 or '40 drops of sulphuric acid may be given in a glass of water three or four times a day. Those who are suliject to frequent returns of this disease should avoid all excess. Their diet should be light and cool, consisting chiefly of milk and vegetables. Above all, let them beware of vigorous efforts of the body and violent agita- tions of the mind. Dr. Rush, of Philadelphia, has published some interesting facts concerning the utility of com- mon salt in curing haemorrhage fi'om the lungs. As this remedy may be obtained everywhere without difficulty its effects ought to be gene- rally known. The following are the doctor's own words :—" The mode of giving it is to pour down from a tea to a table-spoonful of clean, fine salt as soon as possible after the haemorrhage begins from the lungs. This quantity generally stops it; but the dose must be repeated daily for three or four days, to prevent a return of the disorder. If the bleeding continues, the salt must be continued till it is checked, but in larger doses. I have heard of several instances in which two table-spoonsful were taken at one time for several days. It sometimes excites a sickness at the stomach, and never fails to pro- duce a burning sensation in the throat in its passage into the stomach and considerable thirst afterwards." BLOOD, VOMITING OF, or H^imatenests. This is a discharge of dark-coloured, clotted blood from the stomach, in greater or less quan- tity, mixed with alimentary matter, preceded by a sense of weight and dull pain or anxiety in the I'egion of the stomach. The causes giving rise to it are, a plethoric habit, sup})ression of evacuations, blows, bruises, &c. It seldom proves fatal from the loss of blood, but often occasions considerable weakness. It is also a frequent consequence of some other disease, and the success of the treatment here will de- pend on the probability of that disease being cured. When vomiting of blood is accompanied with symptoms which indicate an inflammatory disposition, general bleeding, spare diet, and sedative remedies, should be resorted to. If it depend on other causes, tonic and astringent remedies, with sulphuric acid and opium; for instance, take infusion of roses, 13 drachms; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 drops ; syrup of roses, 1 drachm; tincture of opium, 10 drops. Make a draught: to be taken every two hours. Or, take purified alum, 2 scruples ; infusion of roses, 6ozs.; diluted sulphuric acid, ^drachm; tincture of opium, 40 drops : of which take 2 large table- spoonsful every second or third hour. When the discharge has ceased, infusion of roses, with diluted sulphuric acid, should be taken every four or six hours, and the bowels kept open with proper doses of Epsom salts in the infusion of rose water or alum, 10 grains, every four hours. In severe attacks the application of a blister to the region of the stomach is often attended with the best effects. BLOOM, ALMOND. This cosmetic is made as follows :—Brazil chips, 1 oz., boiled in 3 pints of water for a quarter of an hour; strain through fine muslin, and add borax, ^ oz.; alum, 1 oz.; powdered cochineal, \ oz.; and isinglass, f oz. Boil until all are dissolved, except the skins of the cochineal, which will be in about five minutes. Strain again. BLOOM OF ROSES. This cosmetic is pre- pared by dissolving carmine in liquor ammonioe, and adding rose water and spirit of wine as much as is required to soften to the desired tint. BLOTCHES ON THE FACE. 6Ve Borax. BLOWING MEAT. Butchers have a very pernicious custom of blowing meat to deceive the buyer. The sudden tainting of veal and lamb, in particular, may, in some degree, be at- tributed to this cause. It is also a common practice to blow poultry and all sorts of fish, except those of the shell kind. The method of blowing fish, especially cod and whiting, is by placing the end of a quill or a tobacco-pipe at the vent and in a hole made with a pin under the fin which is next the gill; consequently the fish appears large aud full, but when dressedBGI BLU [ 132 ] will be fl.iLby, and little else but skin and bones. By placing the thumb on each side cf the vent, and pressing it hard, the air will escape, and the imposition be detected. BLUE. Laundresses use two preparations in washing: 1. Stone blue, called also crown, fig, Imoh, Mecldenhurc/, queeiis, and thumb blue. This is prepared by mixing powdered indigo with starch-paste, and making into cakes of any de- sired size or form. 2. Powder blue is oxide of cobalt ground to the finest powder possible with flint glass. BLUE, LIQUID. Add to 1 oz. of powdered Prussian blue 2 ozs. of hydrochloric acid; let the mixture remain for twenty-four hours, aud then add 9 ozs. of water. BLUE OINTMENT. Take 1 oz. of puri- fied quicksilver, or mercury; mutton suet, 1 oz.; and hogs' lard, 3 ozs. Kub the mercury with a little of the lard in a warmed marble mortar perseveringly until the globules of mercuiy dis- appear entirely, then add the rest of the lard and suet, and mix thoroughly. Keep it in a covered ointment pot. This ointment is used chiefly for conveying mercury into the body by rubbing it on the skin. BOARD WAGES. For ordinary servants, and under ordinary circumstances, the usual rule is to allow one shilling a day in addition to the wages for w'hich they were hired. BOAEDS. Soap should not be employed for scouring boards. The use of any kind of soap for such a purpose is extravagant, and the smell of soft-soap is very offensive. A mixture of 1 lb. of slaked lime and 3 lbs. of vei'y fine sand, if used with a hard scrubbing-brush, makes the boards clean and white, destroys vermin, and is very economical. To remove grease and oil stains from boards scrub them with the same mixture, adding 1 spoonful of common washerwoman's soda to 3 spoonsful of the mixture. Fullers' earth, mixed into a thin paste with water, put npon the stains, and allowed to remain all night, will sometimes remove them entirely, and always facilitates their removal by scrubbing. BOOKINGS. Mix 3 ozs. of buckwheat flour with a tea-cupful of warm milk and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire for an hour ; then beat up 4 eggs and as much milk as will make a good batter, and fry them in it. BOILING. The operation of boiling meat has been too commonly treated as a depart- ment of cookery that requires no art at all. Hence we may possibly trace, in the slovenly management of the pot, the well-known adage that a " leg of mutton boiled is a leg of mutton spoiled;" whilst, with due deference to old say- ings,, which generally have originated in truth and ex[)erience, we are to be numbered among those who think a leg of mutton boiled one of the most delectable plain dishes that belong to the old English school of unsophisticated cookery. But the joint must be judiciously chosen, sutli- ciently kept, and skilfully cooked : for, simple as it may appear, there is no small skill requned in the management of the arcana of the pot. Hard water is impi'oper for boiling meat, and where soft is not to be procured the cook can- not be expected to do justice, even with the greatest attention to her business. So with pulse, a peas-pudding is an abomination if not boiled in soft water It is now an established point among the best authorities that the meat should be im- mersed in the pot upon the fire whilst the water is cold, that it may become progressively heated with the water, and thereby gradually boiled ; for, by not immersing it in the water until hot, as of old, the sudden transition from cold to heat not only rendered the meat dark in complexioi^, but tough. Cooks should be careful in managing the form of certain meat for the pot, either by skeweriug or tying where necessary ; for shapeless masses of flesh of unequal thickness cannot be equally cooked, as the thinner parts must be, of ne- cessity, overdone before the thicker portion is equally acted upon by the boiling water. All meats are best cooked, whether by steam or immersion, by being slowly or gently boiled ; con- sequently, the fire must be properly attended to, and a vigilant eye kept upon the state of the pot. Modern experiments, thanks to the enlight- ened few who have applied the science of che- mistry to the improvement of the culinary art, have proved that water for all the purposes of this department of cooking can but boil. That galloping bustle of the pot and flapping of the cover, which alone satisfied the impatient, and even notable housewives of the last age, are now proved to have been mere « Hubble, bubble. Toil and trouble," to no other end than to save a little time at an enormous expense of fuel, and thus converting excellent meat from the larder into an execrable dish for the table. Hence many domestic broils upon unsuccessful boils in those days when even the potent demonstrations of science were vainly opposed to the prejudices of the boiling pot. Salted meats, above all other animal aliments, should be slowly boiled. Indeed, for these the pot should be kept in a simmering state, which cannot be mana^ged without vigilance, as it is indispensable that the fire should be attended to ; for one act of the poker by an impatient hand may set the pot into a too violent state of boiling, whilst too low a fire, from inatten- tion, may reduce the heat of the water so as to injure the meat; for too low as well as tooBOI [ 133 ] BOI Ligli a degree of heat will render all boiled flesh hard or tough. It is indispensable, also, tliat the water should entirely cover the meat; con- sequently the dimensions of the pot should be suited to the bulk of the joint. Other evil consequences arise from boiling too violently, as by the force of the steam the cover of the pot is constantly lifted up, and with the escape of steam thus liberated the more volatile and savory particles of the meat escape also, and the meat is thereby deprived of its flavour, and rendered less nutritious. Tbis constant open- ing and shutting of the lid, moreover, renders the pot liable to the admission of smoke, and sometimes even of soot, which taints the meat and broth beyond endurance. Large joints, as rumps and rounds of beef, ham, &c., where there is suitable convenience, are best boiled in a copper, as it is less difficult to regulate the heat of a copper fire than of a kitchen range. A discreet cook will be known by her economy in the management of the fire. The waste of fuel is an evil of magnitude proportioned to the means of every householder, it being an article of great expense in most parts of the kingdom. Meat before boiling or roasting should be washed, and it is improved by soaking. For roasting and baking, liowever, before it is put on the spit or in i,he oven, it should be wiped and dried. It is impossible to complete the operation of boiling without due care in skim- ming the pot. The instant the water approaches boiling heat the scum which rises to the surface must be cleared off; and in this early state of the process, from the operation of the heat disengaging the coagulated matter which thus floats, the skimming must be patiently followed up, or the scum will attach itself to the meat and thereby spoil its appearance. The cook must not neglect to skim duting the whole process, though the scum rises less frequently the longer it boils. By strict attention to this important part of the process of boiling, the custom of wrapping meat in a cloth may be dispensed with. Indeed, the only reason assigned for this is, to preserve its appearance ; whilst, if the pot be carefully skimmed, the meat will be cooked clean and pure, and come out of the vessel in which it was boiled still more delicate, white, and firm, than when so wrapped up. The flavour, too, is improved by the absence of the cloth. The learned in the art of boiling recom- mend different periods for the completion of the process ; some allowing fifteen minutes to each pound, others twenty, and some even more. All the best authorities, however, as Dr. Kitchener, Mr. Accum, Mrs. Rundell, and -others, agree in this, that the longer the boiling the more perfect the operation. The French cook may claim the honour of a scientific stew, but the English cook stands unrivalled in the whole world for a delicate boil. It is of consequence, as before said, to suit the cooking vessel to the joint, for there should be no space for superfluous water, the suffi- cient allowance being about a pint of water to a pound of meat. It is sufficient that the joint be entirely covered, as the richness of tlie juices is best preserved in proportion to the least quantity of water. The liquor, indeed, thus becomes broth, and .should be consequently preserved for that useful purpose, as by thus slowly boiling or sim.mering, it imbibes no incon- siderable portion of savory nutriment. As the water wastes whilst boiling by evaporation the pot should be replenished, for the water must con- stantly cover the meat. A little cold water, too, accelei'ates the rising of the scum to the surface. When taken from the pot the meat must be carefully wiped. Some use a clean cloth for this purpose, but a sponge, jireviously dipped in hot water and wrung dry as often as needed, is more convenient. Be careful not to let the meat stand, but send it to table with all con- venient speed, or it will darken in complexion and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roasted, cannot be served too hot. Particular care should be paid to the culinary vessels, that they are kept constantly clean and thoi'oughly tinned, otherwise they will both give an unpleasant look to what is cooked and render it unwholesome. The kettle in which a joint is dressed must be of such dimensions as to allow room for a sufficient supply of water to dilute the grosser particles of the meat. A steady fire nuist be kept up that the boiling may continue in an equable state ; for, should it slacken, the meat will become sodden and tough. All meat should be weighed before it is put into the pot; but the time of boiling must be regulated accord- ing to the size and quality of the article, care being required to watch the progress; for, if the copper or pot boils too quickly or too slowly, the meat will be over or underdone. Fresh killed meat takes longer time than that which has been kept for some days, and longer in cold than in warm weather. The old limit of a quarter of an hour to a pound seems too little, at least, for those who wish to have their food thoroughly done ; and, therefore, twenty minutes may be safely adopted as a general rule, reckoning from the moment when the boiling commences. It is a sure and tried result, that the slower the meat boils the better it will eat. A moist heat does not dress meat so fast as a dry heat, and, therefore, a longer time, reckon- ing from the first putting the joint into the pot, is necessary for boiling than roasting. A trivet or fish drainer put into the boiler,BOI BOL [ 134 ] and thereby raising tlie meat about an inch and a half from the bottom, will prevent the under side from being overdone, and also enable j'ou to take the joint out without disfiguring it. Four skewers or a reversed soup-plate will answer the same purpose. In boiling veal some persons put milk into the water to make it white, but this often does more harm than good, the milk being apt to curdle, and to give the meat a brown or yellow cast, besides hanging about it in disagi-eeable lumps. By just dusting the veal with flour, and putting it into the water when cold, these unusual appearances will be prevented. In winter when meat is frozen it should be thawed by putting it for some time into cold water. A little salt is always to be thrown into the pot after the water has begun to boil, and the scum must be taken off as fast as it rises. The oftener broths and soups are skimmed, the clearer and more agreeable they will prove. If the steam is kept in while the meat is dressing, the water will not be much reduced ; therefore, when it is desirable that the water should evaporate, tmcover the pot, or place the lid partly on one side. BOILING TEMPERATUEE. The tem- perature, or heat, of water when boiling in an open vessel is 212° of Fahrenheit's thermometer, under usual circumstances. At the top of high hills it boils at a lower temperature, and then in the case of eggs, &c., a little longer time is required to produce the desired state. On the other hand, if the lid of the vessel in which the water is exposed to the fire be fastened down so tightly that no steam can escape, the tem- perature of the water may be raised to a great height, and then it is very effective in dissolv- ing gristle, extracting gelatine from bones, &c. Such a vessel is called a digester, and requires to be very strongly made, or it will be liable to burst. In such a vessel water has been heated to 400°, and lead has been melted on the top of the digester merely by the heat given out by the water within it. Sir George Shuckburgh found by experiment that when the barometer was at 26 inches, water boiled at less than 205°; but when it was at 31 inches it required to be heated to nearly 214° before it would boil. Under the common pressure of the atmosphere Degrees Ether boils at ..... 98 Alcohol 176 "Water 213 Nitric acid 248 Sulphuric acid 540 Phosphorus 554 Linseed oil . . „ . . . 6(i0 Mercury . . . „ , . . COO Dr. Black made experiments upon several liquids in vacuo, and found that in general they all boiled with about 140° of heat less than when bearing the weight of the atmosphere. Vitriolic ether, if the pressure of the atmo- sphere be i-emoved, will boil even when 52° below the cold sufficient for freezing water. In boiling oil great care should be taken that there is not a drop of water in the vessel; for as the temperature of the oil increases, the water is converted into steam, swells rapidly, and forces the oil over the sides of the vessel into the fire. _ BOILING VEGETABLES. The proper time for greens and green peas is twenty minutes; for parsnips, broad beans, artichokes, and as- paragus, half an hour; cauliflower, sea-kale, and Jerusalem artichokes, which should be peeled and have a spoonful of flour mixed with the water, twenty minutes ; tm^nips and broccoli, fifteen minutes ; beet-roots, three hours. These rules will generally suffice; but as vegetables grown in different soils vary greatly in quality, it is a good practice with beets, carrots, parsnips, &c., to try the root occasionally with a fork, in order to be sure that it is thoroughly done. The water should always be carefully skimmed during the boiling, and greens particularly should be boiled very quickly in a large quantity of water over a brisk fire, with some salt in the pot, and, if you desire them of a fine colour, put a tea- spoonful of pearl-ash or soda, which will also make them tender. BOILS are pointed swellings, varying much in size, and attended around them by all the symptoms of inflammation. They always end in the formation of pus, which should be pro- moted by poultices and hot fomentations; for if the formation of the matter is arrested in one part it will make its appearance in another. The matter should be let out, when the boil has attained its full size, by the help of a lancet (when fully formed a white head, commonly called the core, will appear in the centre). A small quantity of matter will first follow the incision, succeeded by matter somewhat thicker, which, to hasten the cure, must be squeezed out; or if that fail you must still poultice, as the boil will not heal till all the matter has been removed. A purgative of Epsom salts may be given. BOLETUS TINDER, called also amadou, Oerman tinder, spunk, and touchrnatch. This is a reddish-brown inflammable substance formed into strips, and tipped with some percussion mix- ture for use in lighting cigars. The boletus is a fungus prepared chiefly in Germany, and to render it inflammable it is dipped in a strong brine made of saltpetre, dried, beaten with a wooden mallet; dipped again in the brine, dried, and the saltpetre removed from the sur- face by rubbing.[ 135 ] RON BON BONBONS. Provide tin moulds of various shapes, and oil them with the oil of sweet al- monds. Take a quantity of brown sugar syrup, in proportion to their size, in the state called a blow, which may he known by dipping the skimmer into the sugar, shaking it, and blowing through the holes, when parts of the light may be seen ; add a drop of any agreeable essence. If preferred white, wlien the sugar is rolled a little, stir it round in the pan till it grains and shines on the surface ; then pour it through a funnel into the little moulds, and leave it a sufficient time to cool and harden. When cold take it out of the mould, and dry it two or three days on white paper. If the bonbons are re- quired to be coloured, add the colour just before the sugar is ready to be taken off the fire. BONES, DYEING. This process may be performed either by immersing bones in the common dyeing liquors made of animal and vegetable substances, or staining them without heat by different metallic solutions. To suc- ceed in the former method the bones should previously be boiled in a solution of alum, and afterwards steeped in a decoction made of any colouring substance. Thus, to stain them of a red colour, ^ lb. of Brazil wood may be boiled for an hour in 1 gallon of strong lime-water, in which the bones are suffered to lie till they acquire a proper colour: if they assume too deep a hue of purple, it will be necessary to plunge them again into a solution of alum, which has the effect of bringing them to a crimson or scarlet shade. By metallic solutions bones may be easily spotted or variegated. Thus a solution of silver in aquafortis imparts, according to its strength, a brown or black colour; a solution of gold in aquaregia, a fine purple ; a solution of copper in the acetous acid, a pleasant green; and solutions of the same metal in the volatile spirit of ammonia, at first a deep and beautiful blue; but which, on exposing it to the air, changes into a green or bluish green. On touching the bone with the two solutions first mentioned it acquires the desired tint in a few hours when placed in the open air; but in those liquors made with copper it should be steeped for at least twenty-four hours, sufficiently to imbibe the colour. In such cases as require immersion for some time the bone may be variegated by covering those parts which are intended to re- main white with wax, or other matter not soluble in the staining liquor. BONNE-BOUCHE (for a Goose). Mix a tea-spoonful of made-mustard, a small tea-spoon- ful of salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper in a wine-glassful of claret or port wine; pour it into the goose by a slit in the apron immediately before serving up ; or it may be put with some thick melted butter or thick gravy into a boat. BONNET. The following general direrlions for making this article of dress we borrow fi om an excellent little volume published by Houlston and Stoneman, entitled, " The Dressmaker and the Milliner:"—The first point in making a bonnet is to prepare perfectly the foundation. Bonnet shapes are made of willow, buckram, or paste- board. Formerly little but pasteboard was used ; but buckram and willow are much more used now, and of these willow is the best, as being the lightest and most pliable. A paper pattern of the intended bonnet is first cut, and by tliis the willow is cut. A chip, wired with a stiff wire, is sewed round the outer edge of the bon- net front, the wire generally lying between tlie willow and the chip. The edge is then slightly bound with a slip of soft muslin or silk, to prevent any stitches or other roughness from showing through to the outside. This bit of muslin or silk is cut on the bias, that it may fit itself to the edge, and not crease at the turnings, as a straight piece would do. Tliis wiring will not be required if the foundation be made of so stiff a material as pasteboard. The inner edge of the front must also be wired ; but, as it is to press upon the head, the wire used is not so stiff, and it is separated from tlie chip. The chip is to be inside and the wire outside, with the willow between. The willow, which projects beyond the wire and chip, is then slit or snipped at regular distances, and turned up to fit round the head, and to make an edge to which the crown of the bonnet is afterwards to be fastened. Making bonnet crowns. There are two sorts of bonnet crowns—the plain and the full or fancy crown. The head-piece of a plain crown (the part which goes round the head) is cut out in willow by a pattern, and joined exactly of the right size to fit the front. The upper edge is then stiffened with a wired chip. The top of the crown is commonly made of buckram, be- cause it has to be plaited, and willow does not plait so well as buckram. The top of the crown is more or less raised above the sides, and the circular piece of buckram must be cut larger or smaller accordingly. It is plaited in small plaits till it is bent to the proper shape, and then sewed to the sides. Great care must be taken not to bend the wire or the buckram out of shape. They must remain perfectly round. Crowns with flat or plain tops are often bought ready-made from the manufacturer ; but our concern is with those only which are made in the milliner's work-room. Full or fancy crowns must be made upon a head. Dolls' heads are, therefore, made differing in size as ladies* heads do. The full crown is cut out in buck- ram by a pattern, and plaited on the doll's head by a person of skill and taste, accordingBOO BOO [ 136 ] to her fancy, or to a model wliicli stauds be- fore her. Making bonnet fronts. If willow is used for the bonnet shape, a piece of silver paper or thin muslin must he laid perfectly smooth on the front. Over this is laid the silk or satin cover- ing. When you pin down this coverinc; you must see that the straight way of the silk lies perfectly tight both ways, that the silk is not pulled on the cross in the least. You then tack down this covering to the chip on the inside. You line the front in exactly the same way. The edge is finished by slip-stitching, or with a cord-edge, or a plain-binding. A binding is, per- haps, the commonest finish. BOOKS. The great enemies of books, next to careless readers, are damp and the book-grub, or the larva of the little beetle, Aglossa pingui- nalis. To avoid damp, books should not touch the wall, so that air may circulate freely behind them, and a fire should be in the room where they are during damp weather. If books are kept damp for any length of time the pages become spotted with mildew, to remove which bleaching liquid, half the strength of that directed for cotton and linen under the word Bleaching, may be applied very gently with a sponge, and then the page be washed over equally and gently with a sponge dipped in clean water. The sponge need only be just damped with the bleaching liquid. To remove ink-stains and ironmoulds adopt the same process, only substituting a strong solution of citric acid for the bleaching liquid. The book grub, we believe, is bred in the paste employed by bookbinders, and to pre- vent the parent beetle depositing her eggs in the paste, alum, arsenic, and other chemical preparations have been added to it. The best preventive is having books bound in what is termed India-rubber binding; but we believe if books are kept dry, frequently moved, and well rubbed with a flannel kept for the purpose in which some of the bark of the white birch is rolled up when the flannel is stored away it will preserve them from this insect. A library should never be lighted with gas unless each lamp has, by a special contrivance, all the fumes arising from it conveyed into the open air with- out in any degree mixing with the air of the room. However carefully prepared, gas con- tains a little sulphurous acid, and this, by con- tinued contact with paper, is absorbed by it, and gradually destroys its texture. The books of the Athenseum Club, in London, were seriously in- jured in this way. BOOTS. Those used out of doors should be rendered impendous to wet by having a thin inner sole of gutta percha. The upper leather should be rendered in some degree waterproof by being treated with one of the following com- pounds :—Take 1 pint of boiled linseed oil, -J lb. of mutton suet, 6 ozs. of beeswax, and 4 ozs. of resin. These ingredients are tobe melted together over a slow fire, and the boots or shoes, when new and quite clean, are warmed, and rubbed with the composition till the leather is completely satu- rated. There is an improved composition for preserving leather, the good efi'ects of which are sufficiently ascertained. One pint of drying oil, 2 ozs. of yellow wax, 2 ozs. of spmt of tur- pentine, and ^ oz. of Burgundy pitch, should be carefully melted together over a slow fire. With this mixture new shoes and boots are rubbed either in the sun, or at some distance from a fire, with a sponge or brush. The operation is to be repeated as often as they become dry until they be fully saturated. In this manner the leather becomes impervious to wet; the shoes or boots last much longer and acquire such softness and pliability that they never shrivel or grow hard or inflexible; and, in that state, are the most effectual preservatives against cold and chilblains. It is, however, necessary to remark, that shoes or boots thus prepared ought not to be worn till they have become perfectly dry and elastic; as, in the contrary case, the leather will be too soft, and wear out much sooner than even the common kind. Cleaning boots. The following are good direc- tions :—In the first place remove all the loose dirt with a ivooden knife, and never use a sharp steel knife for the purpose, as by doing so the leather is too often cut, and the boots and shoes spoiled before you are aware of it. When you have scraped off' all the dirt that you can with the knife, take the hard brush, and brush off the remainder, and all the dust, which you must be particular in doing, or you will not get them to look well. They must also be quite dry before you black them, or they will not shine. Do not put on too much blacking at a time; for if it dries into the leather before you can use the shining-brush the leather will look brown instead of black. If you have boot-trees never clean either your boots or shoes without them ; but take care that the trees themselves are always kept clean and free from dust, that they may not soil the inside of the boots and shoes. For the same reason never put one shoe within the other. When you clean boots or shoes belonging to the ladies be careful that your hands are clean, in order that the linings may not be soiled. Some ladies have their shoes done with milk, or particular mixtures, with only a little blacking for the edges of the soles. In this case the blacking should be put on with a small piece of sponge, so as not to dirt the upper leathers, upon which the proper mixture may be put with another bit of sponge or a bit of flannel. Always stir your blacking up well be*BOO BOR fore you use it. Put it on the brush with a piece of sponge tied to the end of a small cane, and keep it corked when you have done with it, or the air will spoil it. If your hoots and shoes do not look bright after once blacking and rubbing, do them again until you are satisfied with them. When finished always put them away in the places proper for them, that they may be kept clean and in readiness. It is always best to scrape off the dirt when wet from boots or shoes, but never place them too near the fire to dry, as that cracks the leather : it ought to be done very gradually. If boots or shoes become mildewed put them into a ve7-y cool oven ; they will soon be tho- roughly dried, and the mildew easily brushes off. The creaking of boots and shoes is usually removed by soaking their soles in water, and letting them dry very gradually; but it is always cured by having the soles so soaked and then hammered upon the last before they be- come dry. BOOT-TOPS. In cleaning top-boots the blacking part should be done first, meanwhile covering the tops with paper or parchment, and this is shifted to the leg when the top is being cleaned. The top should be washed clean with soap and water, and if very dirty, rubbed with stone or brickdust. The following application may then be used, if it is wished to render the top white:—Oxalic acid, 1 oz., dissolved in 1 pint of soft water; apply with a sponge, and then wash over with clean water. Polish, if desired, with fine flannel. For brown tops, mix, with 1 pint of skimmed milk, 1 oz. of miiriatic acid, 1 oz. of gum arable, i oz. of spirits of lavender, and the juice of 2 lemons. Rub this mixture on the tops, and when dry polish with a flannel or soft brush. Keep both these pre- parations in bottles closely stopped and in a safe place, for they are poisonous. BORAGE {Borago officinalis). This plant, although commonly found growing about rub- bish and in waste grounds, is, however, not originally a native of this island, but has now been long enough naturalised here to be con- sidered as a British plant. Its flowers, which appear from June till September, are of a beau- tiful blue colour. Hence this plant, in many gardens, is cultivated for ornament, as well as for its popular use as an ingredient in that grateful summer beverage known by the name of cool tankard, its leaves tasting like cucumber and burnet. This plant apjjears to be the bu- glossum of the ancients ; and its reputed me- dicinal character seems also to correspond most exactly with that of our common bugloss. The flowers of both have been termed cordial, and hence, formerly, much recommeuded in melan- cholia and other affections of the nervous system; and as these flowers were found to possess neither warmth, pungency, nor fragrance, their cordial efficacy has been ascribed to a saline quality, which, by abating inordinate heat, was said to be peculiarly grateful and refreshing. But though the herbaceous substance of borage has bfcen discovered to contain a saline matter, there is no evidence of its existence in the flowers; so that the advantages supposed to be derived by a vinous infusion of these, like those of bugloss, can only be imputed to the menstruum. The leaves of borage manifest nothing remark- able either to the smell or to the taste; but they abound with a juice which, in its expressed state, is said to be saltish, and which, on being boiled a sufficient time, forms crystals of nitre. Similar crystals have also been obtained from a decoction of the leaves; and hence it may be inferred that this plant has a peculiar claim to the possession of refrigerating and aperient vir- tues. Dr. Withering observes that the young and tender leaves are good in salads, or as a pot-herb. The old herbalists considered this one of " the four cardinal flowers "—the others being the alkanet, rose, and violet. BORAX is a salt composed of boracic acid, 37'; soda, 14-5; water, 48'5. In the language of chemistry it is a bi-borate of soda. Boi'ax is found native in the East Indies anJ is imported under the name of tinkal. It prjmotes the melting of metals, and, consequently, is much used in soldering. In medicine it is used to cure the thrush and other ulcerations of the tongue and mouth. It may be applied dissolved in water, or in the form of powder by itself, for it is cool and sweetish ; but the usual mode of administering it is mixed with honey. It is then called honey of borax, and is made by mixing a drachm of finely-powdered borax, with the snme quantity of honey. The ulcerated part should be touched frequently with this mixture. The above quantity of honey of borax, dissolved in a pint of hot water and allowed to cool, forms an excellent gargle for an ulcerated sore throat. Borax also forms an efficient lotion. A drachm should be dissolved in a pint of rose water and kept constantly applied, by means of a thin linen rag, over the redness which often affects the nose and blotches the face of delicate per- sons. It is also a soothing application to in- flamed piles and chilblains. BORDEAUX, or Claret Wines. Claret wir.es are produced principally in a district of France called the Bordelais, and in the fertile country on the banks of the Gironde. The most esteemed are tlie Lafitte, Latour, Chateau- Margaux, and Haut-Brion wines, these always fetching from 20 per cent, to 30 per cent, higher prices than any other sorts of the dis-BOR [ 133 ] BOR tricts. Of the four named, tlie i^nfitte is gene- rally preferred on account of its softness on the palate, briglit colour, and exquisite perfume, ■which partakes of the violet and raspberry. The Chateau-Margaux has the same delicate quali- ties, but not quite so high a flavour; while the Latour has a fuller body, and the Haut-Brion is stronger than either, requiring considerable time to mellow in the wood and the bottle be- fore it arrives at perfection. The second-rate clarets are innumerable, and of various quali- ties, some approaching the first-rate wines, and usually substituted for them in this countiy. The adulteration of clarets is great, and unless purchased in bond or of a wine-merchant of established character, you can never be certain that the article is genuine. Average clarets contain about 15 per cent, of alcohol; good red clarets, such as the Haut-Brion and the Haut- Talanu, contain nearly 15 per cent.; and the amber-coloured clarets, such as the Barsac and the Sauterne, contain about 14 per cent. Most of the prime clarets, such as the Lafitte, the Latour, the Chateau-Margaux, the Leoville, and the Rauzan, have a deep purple colour, a deli- cate flavour, and more or less of a violet per- fume ; and some other good kinds, such as the Haut-Brion and the Merignac, resemble the better sorts of Burgundj', but are rougher. Some of the red sorts, such as the Canon and the St. Emilion, have a harsh taste, and an odour somewhat like that of bui'ning sealing- wax ; and many of the best-known white sorts, such as the Laugon, the Cerons, the Preignar, the Beaumes, and the Buset, are of inferii r quality. The wine of the first quality at its point of" maturity ought to have a beautiful colour, much fineness, a very agreeable bouquet, and a flavour which embalms the mouth — strength without intoxicating, and body without harshness. The Bordeaux wines are, contrary to the generality of the French wines, improved by a sea-voyage ; and wines of the second and third quality, after a voyage, have equalled those of the first. The English houses at Bordeaux, immediately after the vintage, purchase a large quantity of the wines of all the best vine3'ards, in order that they may undergo their English preparation. This operation consists in putting into fermenta- tion part of the wines during the following sum-> mer by mixing in each barrel from 13 to 18 pots of Alicant or Berricarlo, or the wines of the Hermitage, Cahors, Languedoc, and others ; one pot of white wine, called imiet (wine the ferment- ation of which has been stopped by the fumes of sulphur), and one bottle of the spirit of wine. The wine is drawn off in December, and then laid up in cellars for some years. By this ope- ration the wines are rendered more spirituous and veiy strong; they acquire a good flavour, but are intoxicating. The price likewise is increased. The age of wine at Bordeaux is counted by the number of times the vine has been in leaf since the vintage. The years which wines require to be kept vary, but those of this department do not reach perfection before the fifth and sixth year. Tlie Bordeaux wines are divided into vins de Medoc, des Graves, des Palus, des Cotes, des Terres Fortes, and vins d'Entre-deiix-Mers. The vineyai'ds of Medoc occupy a territory of twenty leagues in length and one in breadth, and furnish the best wines. They ai"e divided into the High and Low Medoc; the latter is much inferior. Les Graves are gravelly lands reaching from Bordeaux to about three leagues from the town. Les Pahts are alluvial lands between the Garonne and Dordogne. The wine is very deep coloured, full bodied, harsh, and coarse in the first years, but improves and becomes excellent by keeping. They are called cargo wines, because they are preferred for long voyages. Les Cotes are hills which border upon the Garonne and the Gironde, from Lanjon to Blayes. Their wines have a good body and colour. Les Terres Fortes are those of Medoc where there is no gravel. That part which is between the Garonne and the Gironde is called Entre deux-Mers. The wines are of low quality. Red Wines of the First Quality. The vineyard Lafitte. produces wines light, very fine, very smooth, full of flavour and bouquet. La- tour, between Pauillac and St. Lambert, pro- duces wines which have more body and substance, much flavour and bouquet, but are less fine and smooth. Le Chateau-Margaux, leagues from Bordeaux, furnitihes wines distinguished for much lightness and fineness, a fine bouquet, and very smooth; but their flavour is less aromatic than those of Lafitte. Le Haut-Brion is in Les Graves ; its wines have more body and spirit than the preceding, a flavour more aromatic but less bouquet; they require to be kept six or seven years in cask. The flavour in the wines of the first quality is compared to the odour of the best sealing-wax when burning; and the bouquet partakes of the smell of the violet or raspberry. They have all a fine colour and delicate flavour, light, less warm than Burgundy, with a violet perfume and a rich purple hue. Red Wines of the Secokd Quality. Eozan wine is of the same quality as the Chateau- Margaux, but not so perfect. Goree wines are like those of Lafitte, but sold at one eighth less. Leoville and Larose wines abound with flavour and bouquet. i3ra)!e Mo!<?on, separated from La- fitte only by a path, produces wines light, fine, and silky, resembling those of Lafitte. FichonBOR BOR [ 139 ] LonguevtUe wines are very light, spirituous, and fine, but not so rich in flavour. Calon wines are well-bodied, and possess flavour and bouquet. Red Wines of the Third Quality. Pau- illac, Margaux, Pessac, St. Julien cte Eegnac, and St. Estephe, the best vineyards of which are quoted above in the first and second class, furnish also wines partaking of the qualities of all the first classes. At Pessac, la Mirsion and le Pape Clement are distinguished. St. Julien is famous for flavour and bouquet; St. Estephe, for its aromatic perfume, which partakes of the violet. Castelnau de Medoc wines partake of the quali- ties of Margaux, but are inferior. Cantenac wines are of a good colour, full bodied, spirituous, with flavour and bouquet. Talence produces go"t)d fii'm wines, with much of the quality of Haut-Brion, particularly Le Haut-Talence; il/e- rignac, some wines like the pi-eceding. Le Cote de Canon wines are light, fine, and spirituous ; not so sharp as those of Medoc, but equal in price to those of St. Estephe. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. The above vineyards furnish also wines which are called in the country wines of the fourth quality crus of High Medoc. At Paris they frequently figure as wines of the first quality. Laborde, Cassac, Blanquefort, Macau, St. Surinde, and Ca- dourne wines are of a good quality, improvable by keeping. St. Emilion, near Libourne, wines are of a good colour, body, and flavour. The wines of Low Medoc in general rank lower, except a few. Lajac is distinguished. Queyiies, Montserrant, and Bassens, are the best vineyards amongst those called des Palus. The wines are deep coloured and full bodied ; gain by age and transport; and those of Queyries fetch the same price as the third class of Medoc. Red Wines of the Fifth Quality. The same vineyards furnish these wines and those which only rank as vins ordinaires of the second quality and below it. Their number and shades of difference are sufiicient to form many sub- divisions. The vineyards of Amies, Laissouys, Bouliac, Bacatan, Gilet, St. Gervais, Asque, Latresne, Quinsac, St. Loubez, Valenton, Macau, Bouluan, Izon, and Candausac et Baurech, are called the cargo wines, because they are in general sent to foreign countries, and improve by the voyage. Bourg, Le Tourne, and Lan- goiran wines, with body and spirit, gain flavour and bouquet by keeping. St. Macaire are deep- coloured, but spiritless wines. The common wines are those of L'Isle St. Georges, Petits Palus, de Libourne, d'Arveynes, de Blays, and de Fronsac; they become tolerably agreeable by age, but are seldom exported. Bordeaux, White Wines of. The white wines are of two kinds, those of Les Graves, which are dry, vith a bouquet partaking of the odour of cloves, and Pierre-a-Fusil. Those on the left bank, as Sauterne, Barsac, &c., are firm bodied, or somewhat rich flavoured and spirited. This difference arises from the maturity of the grapes ; those of Les Graves are gathered at once, whilst those of Sauterne, &c., are gathered at different times, as they become quite ripe, and the skin sticks to the fingers. In the country called Les Graves are the crus St. Bris and Car- bonnieux, the most esteemed dry wines, with an aromatic bouquet. Pontac and Dulamon unite all the qualities of Les Graves, but are without the taste of Pierre-d-Fusil; they keep well and improve. The vineyards producing the rich- flavoured wines are those of Sauterne, a dis- ti'ict of Lanjon; the wines are very firm, fine, spirituous, aromatic flavoured, and of charming bouquet. Duroy, Yguern-Salus, and the Filiol, are the most distinguished vineyards. The connoisseurs arrange them in this order: Bar- sac district of Podensac; these wines, and par- ticularly those of High Barsac, are of equal value with those of Sauterne ; they differ by a little less fineness, flavour, and bouquet; but are more spirituous, insomuch that, in a very favour- able season, they burn like brandy. With age they become amber coloured. The crus Filiol is the best. Preignac wines partake of the qualities of Barsac and Sauterne, but have less flavour than the last, and less spirit than the first. Beaumes possesses the qualities and flavour of the above. There are fine white wines of excellent quality, lightish brown in colour, aroma most agreeable, and some of rather sweet taste. White Wines of the Secon'd Quality. Largon. These wines were formerly the best of the province ; they are of the same kind as those of Barsac and Sauterne when new, but do not improve by age. The frosts in 1788 and 1795 having destroyed the vines, the pro- prietors of many vineyards substituted the Chalosse, which resists the cold better, but is of a bad quality. Cerons, in Les Graves, wines are rather inferior, but of the same price with those of Largon. To these may be added the second quality of the vineyards of the first class. White Wines of the Third Quality. Pu- jols, Hats, Landiras, and Virelade, in Les Graves, are dry wines, like, but a little inferior to those of Cerons. St. Croix du Mont and Loupiac are wines which keep a long time their sweetness; they are fine, and have a peculiarly agreeable flavour, particularly those of St. Croix. White Wines of the Fourth Quality. Lavgoiran, Rioms, and Cadillac, are first-rate ordinary wines. Cambes, Quinsac, and Cam- blanes, on the Garonne, are wines like those of Langoiran, but inferior.BOT [ 1-10 ] BOT White Wines of the Fifth Quality. Cub- sac, Tronsac, Blaze, Boury, and the vineyards called d'Entre-deux-Mers, are in general dry ■wines with little spirit; in a good season they become excellent ordinary wines of the second and third quality. Castillon, near Lebourne, and St. Foy-le-Grand, are common white wines. These last-cited wines are in general made into brandy. BOTANY BAY CEMENT. Melt a ozs. of Botany Bay resin and mix with it 2 ozs. of very fine brickdust. Used, whilst melted, for mending broken common earthenware dishes and pans. BOTTLE, RED. The name of a cordial, to which sometimes the name of Dr. Taylor and sometimes that of Dr. Whitivorth is prefixed. It is composed of brandy, 1 quart; powdered cochi- neal, \ oz. ; oil of origanum, 20 drops. After standing for twenty-four hours filter it. BOTTLE WAX. The red is composed of 5 parts of red lead and 4 parts of tallow, and 15 parts of common resin. The black, 4 parts of lampblack, 5 parts of tallow, and 20 parts of common resin. Mix, and melt in an earthen pipkin, and dip in the corked end of the bottle. BOTTLES : To Clean. A very common but dangerous practice exists of cleaning glass bottles with shot. Arsenic is used in the manu- facture of shot, and when there obtains the Slightest tendency to acidity two virulent poisons (the lead and arsenic) are held in solution. But apart from the elaboration of acetous acid, the carbonic acid invariably present, and to which fermented liquors owe their briskness and effer- vescence, will form two baneful poisons with these metals. It is common to find in glass bottles a dozen or more shots adhering to the bottom within, and which, if left there, becomes soluble, and impregnates the liquor—poisons it, in fact. We know of many cases where serious inconvenience has arisen from this cause, although it has been assigned to the wine or beer being drugged. The remedy is an easy one: to substitute the pyrope, or Bohemian garnet, which can be purchased for twopence per ounce, and which will answer the purpose even better than shot, whilst all apprehension of danger is removed. A handful of very small pebbles is quite as effectual, and still cheaper. BOTTLES, TAINTED. To remove bad smells from bottles put into them some pieces of grey or brown paper-; fill them with water; shake the bottle strongly; leave them there a day or two in this state; when, if necessary, repeat the process. BOTTLING. Let the wine or other liquor be clear, since it does not clarify in the bottle. Fine weather should be chosen and strong smells avoided during bottling. The cask should be tapped a day or two previously, and the bottles be clean and quite dry. They should be of one size, and laid horizontally in the bin with their heads and bellies alternately. The cork^ should be driven in with a wooden mallet, and dipped in a vessel of melted bottle-wax. There should be two persons engaged in bottling wine, one to draw it off and the other to cork the bottles. Place a tap-tub underneath to receive any wine that may be spilt, and a lamp or lighted candle inside to see when the bottles are full ; then seat yourself on a low stool before the cask, and have the empty bottles on one side, so that you can easily reach them. Let the end of the tap go into the neck of each bottle, and place it a little on the incline, that the wine may run down the side. If the bottles are stood upright, the wine in falling to the bottom will froth, and the bottle will have to remain some time before it can be properly filled, unless you allow each one to run over the neck, which will give considerably exti'a trouble and waste the wine. Fill each bottle about half way up the neck, or so as to come within half an inch of the cork when it is driven in; if the wine comes close to the cork it will cause the bottle to burst. In corking the bottles, have a bottle-boot buckled round the knee, into which each bottle should be put, that the wine may be saved should the bottle break during the cork- ing. The corks should be rather larger than the necks of the bottles. Compress them with the CO riling-ma chine at the small ends, so that they may be just put into the necks of the bottles ; but before inserting them, dip each cork in a small cup of the wine, kept by your side on the corking-machine, to rinse off any seed from the cork in squeezing it, and to make it go easier into the bottle. The corks ought to be driven in as tightly as is consistent with the strength of the bottle. When the wine begins to run but slowly, gently tilt or raise the bottom of the cask at the back, and draw off all that will run. clear. The rest (all but the lees) should be passed through a filtering-bag, pouring back the first runnings until it is clear. Bottle the fine, and put it away separately for use. As the filtered wine will be flat, it is a better way to put it into bottles and decant when settled, corking the bottles close, but so that they may easily be withdrawn. After the bottles are all corked, prepare to wax them, but first cut off any portion that may project more than the eighth of an inch above the neck, then cover with melted bottle-wax and seal them. For claret, it is usual to cover the rim of the neck as well as the cork with wax, by just dip- ping the neck as far as the rim into a pot of the melted wax, which may be prepared as in the receipt for Bottle Wax.t 1^1 ] BO U BO U BOUCHfiES, GENTLEMEN'S. Pound a stick of vanilla with 2 ozs. of powder sugar, and then sift it; m^x with it 7 ozs. additional of powder sugar and ^ lb. of sifted flour ; add to these the whites of 4 eggs, whipped firm, and work them together till the paste is very smooth and soft. Heat two copper plates, rub them over with v;ax, and then wipe them; when cold lay the paste with a knife in pieces about the size of a filbert, shaped quite round; leave a space of three quarters of an inch between them. When the plates are full put them on stools in an oven, so that they can receive no heat from below ; put a stove with hot coals on the top of the oven, and let them remain in this state for twenty-four hours; then put them for fifteen or twenty minutes into a moderate stove. Take them from the plates whilst hot, and as soon as cold finish them in the same way as Ladies' BoucHEES. Glaze them with chocolate d la rose, with pistachios, orange cedrat, &c. They may also be marked with sugar, pistachios, cur- BOUCHfiES, ICED. Roll some puff-paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and, with a plain round paste-cutter of two inches diameter, cut out as many cakes as you may require; then, with a small cutter, take out the middle of half the number, so as to make rings of them; moisten the edges of the former, and lay the rings on them; wet them, also, as you lay them down; sprinkle them lightly with powder sugar, and bake them in a brisk oven. These bouchees require great attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to dissolve and colour too quickly. When done they will be of a reddish tinge. Fill them with sweetmeats, preserves, or whipped cream, according to fancy. BOUCHEES, LADIES'. Mix with 6 eggs J lb. of sugar, 3 ozs. of potato-flour, a little salt, and a pinch of dried orange flowers ; beat them well together, and, having buttered a tin, lay your paste upon it, and bake it in a gentle oven for an hour. When done cut it in pieces about the size of a crown piece, and glaze them; mark them according to your pleasure, and dry them in the oven. BOUCHEES, PEARL. Yourbouchees being made and baked as above, whip the whites of 2 eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with 4 spoonsful of sifted sugar, and, when very smooth, mark your bouchees with it; then take some white of egg, and with the point of a knife drop it in pearls about the size of a grape- stone round each bouchee, half an inch apart; sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and dry the egg in the oven; take care they do not lose their whiteness. When cold place between each pearl a smaller one of red currant jelly; fill your boachees with apricot marmalade, apple jelly, &c. If, however, the jelly, or whatever else you may use, be of a red colour, your inter- mediate pearls should be composed of light- coloured preserve, such as apricot marmalade, &c. These should be pearled a few at a time only. - BOUILLON. Three or four pounds of beef are sufficient for an ample provision of soup and bouilli for a family of from six to eight in number. Indeed, if what remains after dinner is not to be re-stewed for stock, there ought to be sufficient left to make a pleasant soup for the second day, with the addition of a strong vegetable broth, made from roots in winter or from dried herbs in summer. BOUQUET (in Cookeet) is a hunch of parsley and green onions or scallions tied to- gether to put in ragotits, &c. It is called a bouquet garni when thyme, basil, and bay leaf are added to it. BOUQUETS OF FLOWERS. We are indebted for the following to one of the weekly numbers of " The Cottage Gardener." What is the Parisian's secret of making up a bouquet? Nothing can be more simple, being no more than a bit of string adroitly used. This string is attached to the very first flower used in the formation of a bouquet; as soon as one or two more flowers are added, the string is passed round them a few times, and then held by the thumb till another is pressed against it, which keeps it in its place. In this way the flowers are continued, and the string is passed round every fresh layer, so to speak, till the whole bouquet is completed. It will be easily per- ceived, that according to this plan, it is easy to keep the flowers in their places, and yet turn the bouquet with perfect ease in any direction that may be required, while, at the same time, there is little or no probability of the flowers dropping out, because they are all tied to one another. In order to command every facility of turning and examining the bouquet while in course of construction, it is sometimes stuck upon an iron prong secured to a dressing-board, and this latter expedient enables the person making it up to use both hands in arranging and separating the flowers of which the bouquet is being made. It also enables him to put it down and take it up at any moment, and it is always easy to secure the string by giving it a few extra turns. The string used in the formation of a bouquet is fine and strong; not thick, because the under part of the bouquet would be clumsy and difficult to grasp ; not too fine, because it would be always liable to break. A line sort of whipcord is very good for the purpose; so, also, is the fancy cord generally used in shops. But descriptions, to be of any use in some things, can only be car-[ l<f2 1 BOU BOU rloil td a certain extent; and the art of making up a Frencli bouquet is to be lea-ned chieHy by practice, and a careful study of the leading points. It is never necessary to stick in flowers at the surface, unless it liappens, indeed, that by some oversight or other they have been for gotten; for when working according to the French principle, the person constructing the bouquet can always make sure of what he is about. If, however, it be found desirable to put in flowers at the surface, after the bouquet is completed, that can be done by an instrument made for the purpose. There is another advantage worth pointing out in connection with the string, that is, tiie facility for working in a little damp moss between the stallcs, when it is desirable to pro- long the freshness and beauty of the flowers. But, apart from this consideration, moss may be sometimes used for the purpose of filling up, in order to obviate any undue bending of the stalks, especially in large bouquets, but in tliis case it is, of course, only used below the flowers. Tlie outer part of bouquets is generally formed of fern leaves, but sometimes twigs of acacia, hemlock spruce, myrtle, and similar plants are also used, though rarely; for, in fact, the flowers do not require anything to keep them in their places in addition to the string with which they ai'e worked together. No bouquet is ever seec without a sheet of clean white paper round it. Very often the freshest and prettiest flowers must be passed by, simply because their stalks are much too short for the purpose of a bouquet. But the Parisian flower-dealers surmount all obstacles of this kind; for if their flowers have no stalks of their own, they are provided with artificial ones, which answer the end desired just as well. Indeed, it is astonishing to see with what scanty materials a flower-girl will construct a bouquet in a veiy short time. If her flowers have stalks, good and well; if not, it is all the same. In beginning to make her bouquets, the French flower-girl provides herself with a bundle of what she calls Spanish rushes, a species of juncus, remarkable for its close tissues, a circumstance which imparts to it much strength when dried. It is but little thicker than a common knitting wire, but as stiff and tough as a dry osier twig; of the same thickness, or, perhaps, thicker. These rushes are said to be imported from Si)ain, and the flower-girl has to purchase them at so much a pound. Thus provided, she sits down to her table, on which are placed the flowers according to "their kind, also several parcels of fine string of difl'erent lengths, and a small basin of water. The flowers at present before her, it must be recollected, have but very short stalks, and in most cases no stalk at all. She has taken up one ; it is a mere fragment broken from a panicle of lilac, at the same time she has doubled one of the yellow rushes. The flower is placed at the point of doubling, and with a thread, secured in such a way as to keep it from slipping off. The thread, in short, is passed under the loop formed by the doubling of the rush, which in this way explains itself. Two or three turns of the thread are sufficient till the point of connection between the flower and the rush is covered with a tuft of green mosses, the heads of which are brought up to the first or second blossoms, when several moi-e turns of the thread are given, ending towards the bottom of the stalk formed by the doubled rush, where it is tied. Here we have a bouquet in miniature ; and the flower-girl, with well- practised fingers, has completed it, dipped it in water, and laid it down in one-third of the time taken to describe the operation. While she is going on with others in the same way, suppose we make an acquisition of the one just made, and examine it a little. In the first place it is very neat; a small head of pale lilac, and a high necklace of deep green moss, the indi- viduals of which are themselves models of sym- metry. It is neatly and securely tied, and the stalk is about ten inches long. It has been dipped in the water evidently to moisten the moss, in order to keep the blossoms all fresh; while the moss itself prevents the thread from pressing too tightly on the soft, short stem of the lilac. But now the flower-girl has already prepared more than a dozen of other flowers of different sorts and colours in the same manner, and she proceeds to make up her bouquet with them, as she would do with so many flowers having natural stalks, lacing them together until they are all used one after another. When the bouquet is completed, you would never suppose, to look at it, that the flowers of which it is composed are only mere fragments tied together, or that the entire flowers have only stalks two or three inches long. Yet, here we have a beau- tiful bouquet, eight or ten inches in diameter, and with a handle no thicker than one's thumb, a feature of no inconsiderable importance in hand bouquet? of any size; for where the flowers have all their own stalks the entire length, it is difficult to prevent the handle from being inconveniently bulky. Of course, when there are flowers with suitable stalks, in point of length, the rushes are not used; though it will sometimes happen that the stalks are too thick or clumsy, and in that case they are broken off at the lower part, and rushes tied to the flowers. But the principal use of these auxiliaries is to form stalks to such flowers as have no stalks, or the stalks of which are too soft or too short. In this way, if the flowers ara iC 143 3 BOU BOU pretty, or otherwise suitable, they are deprived of all plea of exemption from active service on account of defective limbs, and when duly ccjuipped they make as good an appearance and last as long as their more robust comrades. The Spanish rushes at Paris are called joncs d'Espagne. The stalks of Spartium junceum, or of the common broom, might be substituted with partial success; some fine varieties of osier might also furnish suitable twigs. None of these, however, can be so good as the rushes used by the Parisian flower-girls. In winter, when flowers are scarce, the art of tying or preparing them in the manner noticed makes a great saving in the materials, for a panicle or a spike may be thus made to yield nearly a dozen distinct flowers; and in many aggregate flowers, the lower blossoms, being first expanded, may be taken off without serious detriment to the upper parts. Several blossoms may also be tied together to form one flower, either in a round, flat, or elongated form. There are many rare and singular flowers, too, which it is impossible to gather with stalks more than an inch long, and when it is desired to make use of these in a bouquet the tying process solves all difficulties. The Parisian flower-girl's success in bouquet making is owing, in a great measure, to the pains which she takes in the preparation of her materials; she is always trimming or forming her single flowers, and arranging them according to their various colours; for colour is her principal study. The moss used, a species of polytrichum, is plentiful enough in woods and hedge-rows ; but this is most commonly employed with flowers having but little stalk, and moistened with water to keep them fresh ; but common heath, box- wood, thyme, myosotis, or, indeed, anything else in the same way may be used; for the object is not merely to keep the flowers fresh, or protect them from the pressure of the string, but also to set off the particular colour of the flower, which may be thus likened to a precious stone set in gold, or a sparkling idea clothed iu eloquent words. Next to the mo3S, which prevails during the winter months, the forget-me-not, and common speedwell, are very popular. But the clever bouquet maker is not confined to a particular colour for the purpose of adding to the effect of the others which are to form the principal dis- play, though green and blue, for obvious reasons, are most frequently selected for the purpose. Even parsley and carrot leaves are used with considerable advantage. Anything that will produce the effect wanted can never be too vulgar; and it must be recollected that these auxiliaries are always subordinate to the more striking colours. Sometimes, indeed, this pria- ciple is apparently revereed, and roses, dahlias, asters, tulips, ranunculi, or African marigolds, are surrounded with bright scarlet verbenas, rich crimson violets, yellow crocuses, blue gen- tian, or other small flowers having good decided colours. Tlie Gentiana acaulis, owing to its short stalk, is never seen in English bouquets, but in the hands of the Parisian flower-girls it makes a striking circle round a large flower, and it is also sometimes used as a centre. In the latter case, several flowers are tied in a cluster to one of the rushes, and the warm, rich blue colour may be softened by a circle of myosotis. The practice of inclosing the larger flowers in circles of smaller ones, in the manner noticed, is chiefly applicable to what may be called the circular style of bouquet; because in that style all or nearly all the principal flowers are thus inclosed by a circle of smaller flowers before they are used. The general out- line of a bouquet formed according to this arrangement is somewhat flat; at least, there are no spikes or panicles rising above the other flowers, as in the mixed style, or the bouquet aa naturel. This bouquet is, in short, composed of circles, the centres of which are formed by larger flowers, all agreeing with one another in colour and position, and while it is particularly suitable for flowers with short stalks it aff'ords much scope for the display of taste and skill in dis- tributing the colours, and iu placing the circles so as not to break one another. Modern horti- culture condemns the practice of crowding plants together in a conservatory in order to have a complete collection ; and the practice of putting a bit of everything in a bouquet is equally open to criticism : unless, indeed, the object is to fill a large vase, or scent a saloon, a bouquet should be confined within certain limits. In any case there must be no packing or pressing the flowers together with any of the French models. Flowers, to be sure, are beautiful under all cir- cumstances ; but when bundled together in a heap, requiring to be held with one's two hands, they become inconvenient, and really do not produce so much pleasure as when well selected and neatly arranged on a more moderate scale. The charm of a French bouquet is its light- ness and the tasteful arrangement of the colours. Comparatively few flowers are used, but they are well-chosen and neatly put together. The combinations of flowers in the formation of bouquets are endless, and vary, of course, with the seasons. In winter and early spring the most recherche of all, perhaps, are the Nea- politan violets, with which small hand bouquets are made, and sold at a sous each, in almost every thoroughfare. These little bouquets de- serve a passing notice, for, besides their fra- grance, they present something unusually neatBOW [ 144 ] BOU and simple in tlieir form and construction. Twenty or thirty violets are tied together round a stalk of the Spanish rushes, then two or three leaves of common ivy are arranged and tied im- mediately under the blossoms, as it were, to keep them together, and preserve them from injury. These ivy leaves are arranged close to the blos- soms, and their margins form, as nearly as possible, a kind of circle about an inch beyond the violets. In general form or outline this miniature bouquet has some resemblance to a composite flower, the violets forming, as it were, the disc, and ivy leaves the ray, while the deep green and blue of the one and the other asso- ciate very well together in point of colour. Sometimes a light-coloured floret of lilac, or of a hyacinth, is stuck in the centre of the violets ; but whatever it may be, this central addition has its petals open and regular. Another style of miniature bouquet, also very common at present, is composed simply of a rose surrounded with neat sprigs of arbor-vitse, hemlock spruce, or cypress. The common hair moss [Polytrichum commune) is also sometimes used for this purpose, but in general, and espe- cially for the violets, the ivy leaves take prece- dence of all the others. In the larger bouquets mignonette is much used for the purpose of filling up, and also for forming a distinct circle. The best examples to be seen at Paris early in May are composed nearly as follows :— No. I. Centre—"White camellia. 1st circle—Mignonette, with lialf-expanded roses at certain distances, and slightly raised. 2nd circle—Cinerarias of various colours, and one or two sprigs of geranium. 3rd circle—Tulips and naicissuses, interspersed with one or two sprigs of acacia raised a little. 4th circle—Mixed crocuses, chiefly blue, with sprigs of pelargoniums. 5th circle—Mignonette, and one or two roses, slightly raised. Cth circle—Narcissuses, and white crocuses or con- vallaria. 7th or outer circle—Arbor-vitae, hemlock spruce, or similar evergreens. No. ir. Centre—Variegated camellia. 1st circle—Narcissuses, with raised sprigs of migno- nette, or pelargonium. 2nd circle—Neapolitan violets, interspersed with rose- buds, raised between the sprigs of mignonette of the preceding circle. 3rd circle—Mixed tulips and crocuses. 4th circle—Purple cinerarias, with sprigs of migno- nette here and there. Mil circle—Narcissuses, convallarias or primroses, in- terspersed with a few roses. fith circle—Mignonette, with sprigs of acacia (flowers and leaves). 7 th or outer circle—Arbor-vitee, &c. In these examples the i^ulips, narcissuses, violets, and mignonette abound; while the roses, the acacias, cinerarias, &c., form, as it were, the alto-relievos, which give elegance and expression to the whole arrangement. They are, however, sparingly used, otherwise the very end to be kept in view would be defeated. Of the raised flowers mignonette is the most freely employed. Pelargoniums are used either as raised flowers or otherwise, according to circumstances. The acacias and roses can only be introduced mode- rately, that is to say, they should be made to keep a considerable distance from one another. Instead of camellias at the centre, a crown im- perial, surrounded with a deep circle of migno- nette and roses may be chosen, and one or two sprigs of orange blossom may alternate here and there with the mignonette. The centre may also be composed of a fine flower of UlKHlodeinli-an arhorewn; but that is only to be adopted when other flowers of equally warm colours are plenti- ful at hand. Then roses, azaleas, cyclamens, tulips, cinerarias, &c., must predominate over narcissuses, crocuses, convallarias, and other sorts of the like tints. In this case even mig- nonette cannot be so freely used as in the ex- amples noted ; for, as before observed, the centre is the key of the whole arrangement, and all the other circles must be composed in accordance with it, just as a melody is regulated by the chords in which it has been struck. BOURBONNE-LES-BAINS. This French town is situated in the department of Haute- Marne, and about seventeen miles from Langres. It is celebrated for its mineral waters, which are used only for bathing. Their chief ingredients are common salt and gypsum. The water is closely imitated by using the following ingre- dients :—Common salt, lbs.; chloride of cal- cium, 2|lbs.; Glauber's salt, 4 lbs.; and bi- carbonate of soda, i lb.; bromide of potassium, 230 grains; water, 60 gallons. Dissolve the chloride of calcium and bicarbonate of soda in about 10 gallons of the water, cold ; dissolve the other salts in the remaining water, warm ; mix the two together, and use the bath immediately at such a temperature as mav be directed. BOWELS, PAIN IN THE. That disease which we shall notice here is also called the dry belly-ache, from not being accompanied by purging; Devonshire colic, from being prevalent in that and other cider counties ; and painters' colic, because workmen in that trade are liable to it. This species of colic is distinguished from those which so nearly resemble it by obstinate costiveness, with a vomiting of a porraceous or leek-like bile, severe pain at the navel shooting towards the sides with excessive violence, strong convulsive spasms in the bowels and muscles of the abdomen, with a paralytic tendency of the legs and arms, and a bent position of the patient's[ 145 ] BOW BRA body. Long oosliveness, an accumulation of acrid bile, cold applied to the extremities or to the belly itself, eating unripe fruits, irregular living, and sour food or drink, are among the causes which occasion this disease; also, inhaling the fumes of lead, and frequently handling some of its che- mical preparations; hence painters and glaziers are frequently troubled with it. It has been called the Devonshire colic, from the cider being impregnated with the lead of which the cisterns containing it are lined ; but it is a frequent disease in the West Indies, where no cider is made, and where there is only a small quantity of lead in the mills employed to extract the juice of the sugar-canes. This cause, then, cannot be so general a one as has been supposed. As the above symptoms inci-ease, or are not alleviated, the spasms become more frequent as well as more violent; the costiveness cannot be over- come, inflammation of the intestines ensues, which terminates in gangrene, and destroys the patient; and at an advanced stage of the dis- ease strangury not uncommonly takes place in a very high degree. This disease is always attended with some degree of danger in proportion to the violence of the symptoms and its duration; and where it does not prove fatal it is too apt to terminate in palsj', and to leave behind it contractions of the hands and feet, which disable them from per- forming their office ; and in this miserable state of helplessness the patient may linger out many years of wretched existence. "When it is brought on by lead it is more obstinate and longer pro- tracted than when induced by other causes. In the treatment of this disease, if the symp- toms be veiy violent, the patient should be bled as early as possible, in proportion to his age and constitution, to guard against inflammation of thfe intestines. After this step antispasmodics should be resorted to, if judged necessary, to remove the spasms. Among these are fomenta- tions by means of flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of poppy heads to which some rectified spirit has been added. Frequent immersion in the warm bath, or taking the patient out of bed, and making him walk on a cold, damp floor, bare- footed ; at the same time throwing cold water on Lis feet, legs, and thighs ; using large quantities of opium internally (5 grains for a dose), or by friction with it externally. The application of a large blister to the abdomen may be sometimes attended with benefit, clysters, &c. The follow- ing draught may be taken every six hours:— Take castor oil, ^ oz. ; mucilage of gum arabic, enough. Mix them in a mortar, and then add gradually peppermint water, l^oz.; tincture of opium, 30 drops. Mix : to be taken every four or six hours. - For an anodyne liniment to rub over the ab- domen, take camphorated spirit, 4 drachms; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Whenever the spasms begin to relax, and the stomach becomes somewhat composed, some mild cathartic should be administered, such as the preceding opening draught, or castor oil alone, or compound tincture of senna, or a solution of some purgative salt; assisting its operation by a laxative clyster, should the desired effect not be speedily pro- duced, every three or four hours. For a clyster dissolve extract of bitter apple, i drachm, in infusion of senna, 16 ozs.; and add Glauber's or Epsom salts, ^ oz.; castor oil, 1 oz. For other kinds of pain in the bowels see Colic, Dtarrhcea, and Worms. BOX WOOD, or Wood of Buxus semper- viRENs. That is the best which is imported from Turkey, and is invaluable to the wood- engraver and mathematical instrument-maker. It sells by weight for twelve guineas a ton and upwards. It is used also by the turner and flute-maker for musical instrument pegs, but- ton-moulds, weavers' shuttles, dressers for shoe- makers and plumbers, for pestles, chessmen, ko. Its leaves, as a tonic, have been employed medicinally as a substitute for Peruvian bark. Box-wood mahogany is made by warming the box-wood, washing it with nitric acid, letting it dry for twenty-four hours, and then polishing it by rubbing it with linseed oil coloured with alkanet root. BRACES, SHOULDER. We do not hesi- tate to condemn braces of all kinds as applied to restrain the motion of a girl's shoulders; for they will infallibly produce deformity. We caution mothers most strongly not to be de- ceived by the apparent improvement which they produce when first put on, for this is the snare that has allured so many to torture their children into deformity. Follow the example of the ele- gant Greeks, the ease and beauty of whose forms are so much admired. They put no unnatural straps on their young ladies : all their garments were easy, loose, and floating; and the effects were seen in their every limb and their every motion. On the contrary, we can at once dis- tinguish among thousands from their stiff, starched awkwardness, the poor creatures who have been pinioned and tortured by shoulder braces, and other wicked inventions to turn beauty into deformity, and the finest figures into rickety ugliness. Dr. Macartney, of Dublin, says, "he has found the fine proportions of the antique statues only in the busts of women who had never worn such restraints on shape." BRAIN FEVER {Phrenitis). In this and the next disease medical aid fshould be promptly obtained, and we enter into details of their treatment because our pages are intended for the emigrant and others not within the reacliBRA BE A [ lie ] of such aid, as well as for readers in our o\vii country. Causes. This disease is often occasioned by night-watching, especially when joined with hard study; it may likewise proceed from hard drink- ing, anger, grief, or anxiety. It is often occa- sioned by the stoppage of usual evacuations : as the bleeding piles in men, the customary dis- charges of women, &c. Such as imprudently expose themselves to the heat of the sun, espe- cially by sleeping out of doors in a hot season with their heads uncovered, are often suddenly seized with an inflammation of the brain so as to awake quite delirious. When repellants are imprudently used in an erysipelas an inflamma- tion of the brain is sometimes the consequence. It may likewise be occasioned by external in- juries, as blows or bruises upon the head, &c. Symptoms. The symptoms which usually precede a true inflammation of the brain are, pain of the head, redness of the eyes, a violent flushing of the face, disturbed sleep, or a total want of it, great dryness of the skin, costiveness, a retention of urine, a small dropping of blood from the nose, singing of the ears, and extreme sensibility of the nervous system. When the inflammation is formed the symptoms in gene- ral are similar to those of the inflammatory fever. The pulse, indeed, is often weak, irre- gular, and trembling; but sometimes it is hard and contracted. When the brain itself is in- flamed the pulse is always soft and low; but when the inflammation only afiects the integu- ments of the brain, viz., the dura and pia mater, it is hard. A remarkable quickness of hearing is a common symptom of this disease, but that seldom continues long. Another usual symptom is a great throbbing or pulsation in the arteries of the neck and temples. Though the tongue is often black and dry, yet the patient seldom complains of thirst, and even refuses drink. The mind chiefly runs upon such objects as have before made a deep impression on it; and sometimes, from a sullen silence, the patient becomes all of a sudden quite outrageous. A constant trembling and starting of the tendons is an unfavourable symptom, as are also a sup- pression of urine, a total want of sleep, a con- stant spitting, a grinding of the teeth, which last may be considered as a kind of convulsion. When a phrenitis succeeds an inflammation of the lungs, of the intestines, or of the throat, &c., it is owing' to a translation of the disease from these parts to the brain, and generally proves fatal. This shows the necessity of pro- per evacuations, and the danger of repellants in all inflammatory diseases. The favourable symptoms are, a free perspiration, a copious dis- charge of blood from the nose, the bleeding piles, a plentiful discharge of urine, which lets fall a copious sediment. Sometimes the disease is canied off by a looseness, and in women by an excessive flow of the menses. As this dis- ease often proves fatal in a few days it requires the most speedy applications. When it is pro- longed or improperly treated it sometimes ends in madness or a kind of stupidity which con- tinues for life. In the cure two things are chiefly to be attended to, viz., to lessen the quantity of blood in the brain, and to retard tlie circulation towards the head. Reg'mcn. The patient ought to be kept very quiet. Company, noise, and everything tliat aff"ects the senses or disturbs the imagination increases the disease. Even too much light is hurtful; for which reason the patient's chamber ought to be a little darkened, and he should neither be kept too hot nor cold. It is net, however, necessary to exclude the company of an agreeable frieiid, as this has a tendency to soothe and quiet the mind. Neither ought the patient to be kept too much in the dark, lest it should occasion a gloomy melancholy, which is too often the consequence of this disease. The patient must, as far as possible, be soothed and humoured in everything. Contradiction will ruffle his mind and increase his malady. Even when he calls for things which are not to be obtained, or which might prove hurtful, he is not to be positively denied them, but rather put off with the promise of having them as soon as they can be procured, or by some other excuse. A little of anything that the mind is set upon, though not quite proper, will hurt the patient less than a positive refusal. In a word, what- ever he was fond of or used to be delighted with when in health may here be tried; as pleasing stories, soft music, or whatever has a tendency to soothe the passions and compose the mind. Boerhaave proposes several mechanical experi- ments for tliis purpose; as the soft noise of water distilling by drops into a basin, and the patient trying to reckon them, &c. Any uniform sound, if low and continued, has a tendenc}' to procure sleep, and, consequently, may be of service. The aliment ought to be light, con- sisting chiefly of farinaceous substances; as panado and water-gruel, sharpened with jelly of currants or juice of lemons, ripe fruits roasted or boiled, jellies, preserves, &c. The drink small, diluting, and cooling; as whey, barley- water, or decoctions of barley and tamarinds, which latter not only renders the liquor more palatable, but likewise more beneficial, as they are of an opening nature. Treatment. In an inflammation of the brain nothing more certainly relieves the patient than a free discharge of blood from the nose. When this comes of its own accord it is by no means to be stopped, but rather promoted by applyingBRA BRA [ 1^7 J clothes dipped in warm water to the part. When bleeding at the nose does not happen spontane- ously it may be provoked by putting a straw or any other sharp body up the nostril. Bleeding from the temporal arteries greatly relieves the head; but as this operation cannot always be performed we would recommend in its stead bleeding in the jugular veins. When the patient's pulse and spirits are so low that he cannot bear bleeding with the lancet, leeches may be applied to the temples. These not only draw off the blood more gradually, but, by being applied nearer to the part affected, generally give more immediate relief. The next step will be to direct the head to be shaved, and to apply a large blister over it. Linen cloths wetted with vinegar and water, cold spirituous lotions, diluted ether, or iced water may likewise be kept constantly to the temples and forehead, renew- ing them as they become dry. Gold applied over the seat of the brain by means of a wet towel or other similar medium, will, indeed, in many cases, prove more efficacious than the application of a blister, as this has been ob- served occasionally not only to accelerate the pulee, but also render the patient more ungo- vernable. The feet should be frequently placed in warm water; and to assist in diminishing the determination of blood to the head the patient should be kept as nearly as possible in the erect posture as can conveniently be borne. A dis- charge of blood from the hsemorrhoidal veins is likewise of great service, and ought by all means to be promoted. If the patient has been sub- ject to the bleeding piles, and that discharge has been stopped, every method must be tried to restore it; as the application of leeches to the parts, sitting over the steams of warm water, sharp clysters, or suppositories made of honey, aloes, and rock-salt. If the inflammation of the brain be occasioned by the stoppage of evacuations, either natural or artificial, as the menses, issues, setons, or such like, all means must be used to restore them as soon as possible, or to substitute others in their stead. The patient's body must be kept open by stimulating clysters, or either of the following smart purges : —Take submuriate of mercury, 2 grains ; extract of colocynth, 6 grains. Make 3 pills for a dose. Or, take submuriate of mercury, 6 grains; pow- dered jalap, 1 scruple. Make a cathartic powder; and small quantities of nitre ought frequently to be mixed with his drink. Two or three drachms or more, if the case be dangerous, may be used in the space of twenty-four hours. The feet ought frequently to be bathed in lukewarm water, and soft poultices of bread and milk may be kept constantly applied to them. Though this species of inflammation ought to be treated nearly as other inflammatory dis- orders are, yet more than ordinary care should be used to keep the patient in a state of as much ease, composure, and tranquillity as possible. A strict attention to hints already given will often do more good than the best medicines. It should be considered that a sore will not bear the touch of a feather, and that the nerves of an inflamed brain are still more unfit to endure the least irritation, without torture, and without danger. Even light, sound, or whatever may make a strong impression on the senses, is car- ried with such rapidity and force to the brain as to increase the inflammation, and disorder the veiy organs by which it was conveyed. A docile and sensible nurse is, in such cases, of as much sei'vice as the most enlightened physician. When inflammation of the l)rain is a symptom of some other disease it will not require our using active purgatives. On the contrary, the body should be kept open with gentle aperients or laxative clysters, administered from time to time as occasion may require. In most cases the application of a blister to the neck or be- tween the shoulders will be pi'oper. As a me- dicine the patient may take in both species of this inflammation this diaphoretic bolus every three hours :—Take camphor, 3 grains; anti- monial powder, 5 grains; confection of roses, enough to make a small bolus, washing the bolus down with 3 table-spoonsful of this mix- ture :—Take lemon-juice, H oz.; subcarbonate of ammonia, ^ drachm ; mint water, 1 oz.; pure water, 4 ozs.; nitrate of potash, 1 drachm; syrup of roses, 2 drachms. Make a mixture. BRAIN, WATER ON THE {Hydrocepha- lus). This disease is almost confined exclusively to young children, and is rarely known to show itself beyond the age of twelve or fourteen years, appearing more frequently to arise in those of a scrofulous and rickety habit than in those of a different temperament. It very often attacks in a very gradual manner. One of the earliest symptoms in this disease is the little patient feeling imeasy in raising its head from the pillow, and wishing to lie down again immediately. It frequently commences with languor, pains in the limbs, and headache. The patient is affected with sickness at the stomach, vomiting several times in the course of the day. The pain of the head is usually confined to one side, or extends from just above the eyebrows to the temples ; the eyes are painfully sensible to light; the patient is watch- ful and moans; or, if he sleeps, he grinds his teeth, picks his nose, and often awakes suddenly in a fright; the bowels are costive, and are with difficulty acted upon by the strongest purgatives, &c. These symptoms go on increasing until squinting, convulsions, and dilated pupil come on, and close the scene. Such symptoms, how- ever, are not expected to follow each other in allBKA [ 148 3 BRA cases in a regular and increased progress; for a child has sometimes appeared in health on the very night on which it has been seized with con- vulsions, by which it was carried off a few days afterwards. The disease, in the acute form, com- monly terminates in three weeks from the first symptom ; but in some instances it has been pro- tracted to four, five, or six weeks ; and, like every other disease of the brain, it is uncertain, as it may run its course in a few days. Water on the brain has generally been sup- posed to arise in consequence either of injuries done to the brain itself, by blows, falls, &c., or from hardened tumours or excrescences within the scull, from original laxity or weakness in the brain, or from general debility, and an impover- ished state of the blood, &c. The treatment, to give a tolerable chance of success, must be prompt and active. In the first stage the indications of cure are to lessen the inflammatory action by bleeding, if the patient be about the age of puberty and of a full habit of body, from the temporal artery or jugular vein, and the symptoms run high at the onset; but if younger, or the disease more advanced, a suf- ficient quantity of blood may be withdrawn by leeches applied to the temples in the direction of the sutures, or where the bones unite. The bowels should then be thoroughly emptied by means of some active cathartic ; such as calomel with scammony or jalap, in proportion to the age and constitution, keeping up this function during the progress of the complaint with some degree of activity. For this purpose calomel may be given in divided doses, or some other mercurial preparation. Take gum resin of scamony, 4 grains; calomel, 3 grains; lump sugar, 5 grains. Make a powder, to be taken mixed in a little honey or treacle. After the bowels are cleared out an evaporating lotion should be assiduously applied to the scalp, previously shaved. Take muriate of ammonia. 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 4 ozs.; vinegar, -J- pint. To promote perspiration and increase the secretion of urine, when much heat and fever prevail, the following draught may be given to a child four years old every three hours, viz.:—Take nitre, 6 grains; tincture of fox- glove, 10 drops to 40 drops ; acetated liquor of ammonia, 2 drachms ; distilled water, 5 drachms; syrup of saff'ron, 1 drachm. Blisters to the temples, or a blister cap applied over the whole head, and a dischargfr kept up as long as pos- sible, by dressing it, after removal, with cerate of savin, or ointment of Spanish flies, is a pro- per step. Should the progress of the complaint be fortunately arrested the strength of the patient must be re-established by means of a nutritious diet. Tonic medicines, taking care to keep the bowels open and the head cool, are also recom- tneuded. BRAINS, CALVES': To Dress. Wash the brains of three calves ; take off" the skins without breaking them ; let them soak in water; cleanse and pick out what fibres may remain. Have ready a stewpan with boiling water, salt, and a glass of white vinegar; put in the brains, and let them lie a quarter of an hour. Cover a stewpan with slices of bacon, and put the brains thereon ; moisten them with a glass of white wine and double that quantity of stock; add a bunch of parsley, some young onions, and slices of lemon, but without peel or seeds. Cover the whole with bacon, and pepper over all. When done serve with Italian sauce. BRAINS, SHEEPS' : To Stew. Wash them well, and boil them in two waters; stew 12 small onions with a rasher of bacon, a bunch of parsley and scallions, 2 cloves, a little basil, a gill of white wine, some thin slices of ham, a little salt, and white pepper. When done strain oS the sauce, and serve up the brains, putting the onions and bacon, with crumbs of bread, round the dish; add an anchovy, cut fine, and a few whole capers to the sauce, and throw it over the brains. BRAISING. This is a method of dressing meat, poultry, &c., without its undergoing any evaporation. It is done by lining a braising- pan with thin slices of bacon, veal, or beef, upon which place whatever you intend to braise, and also add can'ots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, pepper and salt. To dress a dish a la braise you must have a braising-pan, which is a sort of saucepan with the lid fitting close, and bordered so as to hold hot ashes or charcoal on it. It is usual in France to secure the lid of the pan hermetically with paste, so that the contents may stew without the least evaporation. This mode of cookery preserves excellently the flavour of the viands used. Care must be taken that they are done thoroughly, and well seasoned with carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and clove. BRAISING POT. A deep, well-tinned copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which must close hermetically, and have a ledge round, so that coals or hot ashes may be placed on the top when necessary. BRAN. It is a great though common mis- take to suppose that there is no nourishment in this husk of the wheat-grain. So far from this being the case, there is more noui-ishment in the same weight of bran than of flour. Bran contains a higher per centage of gluten, gum, and fatty matter. Flour contains more starch. Thus there is less stimulating nourishment in the finest-dressed flour, and the miners, conse- quently, use it exclusively in summer. In winter they prefer a browner bread, that is, having moi-e bran in it. Bran mixed with flour enables it to retain more water, and for that[ 140 ] BRA BRA reason, also, it may, in times of scarcity, bo ad- vantageously employed in the making of common household bread. This is effected by previously boiling the bran in water, and then adding the whole decoction to the dough. Thus the bran will be sufficiently softened, and divested of its dry, husky quality, while the nutritive part is duly prepared for food. It is asserted that the increase in the quantity of bread, by the addi- tion of 14lbs. 14 ozs. «f bran to 56 lbs. of flour, is from 34 lbs. to 36 lbs. of bi'ead beyond what is produced by the common mode. In one in- stance 56 lbs. of flour with 14 lbs. 14ozs. of bran produced, on being weighed the next day, when cold, 106|^lbs. of bread; which is above half as much more than what is commonly made, and about twice the quantity obtained from a bushel of wheat when merely the fine flour is used. Bran is also an excellent detergent, or cleanser, employed instead of soap; and is used for such purpose by the calico printers. Bran tea is made by pouring boiling water upon bran, straining the liquor, and then sweetening it with honey; it is a popular remedy for a sore throat or hoarseness. A bmii bath, made by mixing a handful of bran with a pailful of hot water, is very softening for coughs and colds, if the feet be plunged in it. A similar mixture, strained, is very effectual for cleansing hair troubled with scurf or dandruff. BRANDY. An alcoholic liquid of some 50 per cent, strength, made by distilling wines. They are distinguislied from each other by their peculiar flavour or aroma, arising in part from essenuial oil previously existing in the fruits from which they are derived, and in part from products generated by fermentation and distil- lation. Hence a good judge of brandy can determine from what place it is derived; in other words, from what fruit, and may even distinguish minute shades of difference in the quality of different brandies from the same source. In Germany and elsewhere the term brandy {branntivein, burnt wine,) is applied to distilled liquors generally, derived from fer- mented grain, potatoes, grapes, and other fruit, but in the United States and in England it is usually restricted to distilled wines or the distilled marc of the grape. Among the ingredients in wines are sugar, gum, tartaric and acetic acids, free and com- bined, essential oils, extractive, &c. When they are distilled an oily substance accompanies the alcohol, called /ousel oil, which imparts a pe- culiar and usually disagreeable taste and odour to the liquor. This oil usually appears in greater quantity towards the end of the distil- lation, especially when a low temperature is employed, and hence may be obtained by dis- tilling the residue after the alcohol liquid is passed over. The fousel oil obtained by Auber- gier was a clear liquid of a highly penetrating odour, a sharp and highly disagreeable taste; was soluble in 1000 parts of water, and a single drop imparted the fousel taste to 15 gallons of well-flavoured brandy. Too little is known rela- tive to this substance to remove it perfectly in the manufacture of brandy, and the probability is that fousel oil from different sources will prove very different in compositions and proper- ties. Cognac and other French brandies owe their agreeable flavour to the smaller amount and less disagreeable nature of their fousel oil, so that the proper aroma of the wine is clearly perceptible in their odour and taste. French brandy as it comes from the still is perfectly colourless. The colour is either com- municated by mixture or by the cask. The mixture is either derived from oak shavings, or from catechu, or burnt sugar, or from charcoal and rice digested in malt spirit. French brandies are commonly distilled from weak or unsaleable wines, and much from wine lees, as the stalks, skins, and kernels, to which the skins give a pecuUar flavour, and afford an acrid oil. It is hence inferred by Aubergier that the various flavours of spirits arise from the fat oil in the skins of the fruit and grain, and that if skimmed all their spirits would afford the sawe flavour. The body of the still is three quarters filled, the head fitted to the body and worm, and the joints closed. The fire is brought on quick till the firs<; spirit begins to distil, when it is slack- ened, and kept at an equal degree. The liquor that runs from the worm is assayed either by the hydrometer, by observing the head, or throw- ing it on the still-head and applying a candle to it. When the vapour ceases to take fire a fresh can is applied to the worm, and the eau-de-vie seconde is collected separately; but for home use the seconds are allowed to mix with the first portion. The liquor that remains, being drawn off, a fresh portion of wine is poured into the still, and the distillation continued till all the wine is consumed. When superior strength is required the brandy is re-distilled, and three quarters of it drawn over in the common still with a gentle heat, so that the thread from the worm may be extremely fine, and the spirit is separated into different portions as the strongest spirit comes over first. When first distilled it is as clear as water; and if preserved in earthen or glass vessels keeps colourless, but in oak casks it becomes coloured. In distillation 925 lbs. of wine consume 601bs. of pit coal, and produce in five hours forty-two minutes 87 lbs. of eau-de-vie, and in two hours more 98 lbs. of repasses. Modern improvements are founded oa theBRA [ 150 ] BRA principle that wine consists of a mixture of water and alcohol, which ingredients differ in the temperature at which their vapours condense into a liquid. The condensing part of the dis- tilling apparatus being, therefore, divided into two portions, and that next the still body kept at the temperature at which the vapour of water condenses, it becomes a liquid, and is made to How back into the body, while the vapour of alcohol, not being condensable by this tempera- ture, passes on to the second portion of the condensing apparatus, which is kept at a lower temperature, and here it is also condensed and made to flow into the receiver. Cognac is obtained by distilling the palest white wines in the ordinary still by a gentle heat, so as to avoid raising the essential oil contained in the skin of the grape. It is also obtained by distilling other white wines, or even the paler red wines, by Solimani's apparatus. Eau-de-Vie de Maec is known by the fiery taste of the essential oil of the grape with which it is imbued. It sells from 25 per cent, to 30 per cent, less than ordinary brandy. It is drunk by the lower classes in France, and pre- ferred by the English and the northern nations. It is made by distilling the dark red wines of Portugal, Spain, and other co^antries; or from the lees deposited by wine in keeping, or the scrapings of wine casks, the skins or grains of common raisins deposited in the making of raisin wine, the cake left in pressing grapes, and from the lees left in making vinegar. The cake left on pressing grapes is prepared for distillation by being broken to pieces, and thrown into large covered tubs of water. The mixture soon ferments. Brandy is coloured with burnt sugar, Saunders' wood, &c. It may be produced from all fermented liquors, but that from wine is generally preferred. Home-made Brandt. Take 20 pints of fully- ripe gooseberries and 20 pints of white and red currants; bruise them, and mix with 20 pints of soft water and 2 gallons of port wine. Put these ingredients into any open vessel to ferment for a fortnight; then put the mixture through a press or cloth of any kind that will exclude the refuse. Distil this liquid twice, and you will have the brandy colourless. From every 20 pints of the mixture you may draw 10 pints of good brandy. To colour it brown sugar, burned, may be used.—[Cal. Hort. Soc.) BRANDY ANDAYK An ounce of bruised aniseed, 1 oz. of bruised coriander seed, 2 ozs. of powdered floris iris, and the zests of 2 oranges; put them with 3 quarts of distilled brandy into the alembic bain marie ; dissolve 2 Jibs, of sugar in 2 J pints of clear river water; add them to the distilled liquor; pass the whole through a strainer, and put into bottles. BRANDY BITTERS. See Bitters. BRANDY, BRITISH. To 60 gallons of rectified spirits put 1 lb. of sweet spuit of nitre, 1 lb. of cassia buds, ground into meal and mixed with 1 lb. of the meal of bitter almonds, 2 ozs. of sliced (not powdered) iris root, and 35 pounded prune stones. Stir all these together two or three times a day for a week; then let the whole settle, and add 1 gallon of the best white wine vinegar. If you wish to have it of a supe- rior quality, add 1 gallon of French brandy, when it will be very nearly equal to the foreign itself. BRANDY, CHERRIES. There are different modes of making this cordial, sometimes by pressing out the juice, and putting thereto as much brandy as it will bear, according to its quality, and adding 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of brown sugar to every 20 gallons, with J oz. of cloves and cinnamon beaten small. Though this may be used in a few days, it will improve by keep- ing. But one of the most common ways of making cherry brandy is to put the cherries, clean picked from the stalks, into a vessel till it is about half full; then fill it up with brandy of rectified molasses, which is generally used for this compound, and when infused sixteen or eighteen days draw off the liquor by degrees as you want it. Then fill the vessel a second time nearly to the top; let it stand about a month, and draw it off as you have occasion till you have got the whole. Y'^ou may use these cherries a third time by just covering them with some brandy that is over proof, letting it infuse six or seven weeks, which by its strength will extract all the remaining juice ; but when you draw it off you must put to it as much water as the brandy was above proof, and afterwards the cherries must be pressed as long as any liquor remains in them. In making the cherry brandy of the first in- fusion—the juice of which will be the best, and contain the most spirit—continue the process till the liquor is brought to such a degree of colour as just to discern a lighted candle when held on the other side of the glass, and if you find it does not taste well of the cherries you may add a little more juice, and then sweeten with 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of sugar to every 20 gallons of liquor, and in proportion for a larger or smaller quantity. When you draw off the juice, or brandy, the second time it will be inferior to the first, bear less liquor in mixing, and require a little more sugar to sweeten it, together with J oz. of cin- namon and beaten cloves, and put to 20 gallons of the first infusion, which will become better the longer it is kept. When you draw off your cherry brandy of the third infusion you must not put any more brandy to it, as it will not bear it, but may add about 1 pint of water to[ 151 ] BRA BRA 1 gallon, because tbe tliird infusion is made with stronger spirits than the former. Sweeten with sugar, and use cinnamon and cloves as in the other, or a little more if needful. As the liquor pressed from the cherries, after being thrice infused, will be thicker than the other, you may add a little brandy to it, and sweeten with sugar and spice as before directed, and after it has stood a few days to settle it will become clear. BRANDY CREAM. Take 24 sweet almonds and 3 bitter almonds, all blanched and pounded; boil them in a little milk. When cold add to it the yolks of 5 eggs, well beaten in a little cream; sweeten and put to it 2 glasses of the best brandy, and, when well mixed, add 1 quart of thin cream. Set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour it into glasses. When cold it will be ready. If you wish it to keep scald the cream pre- viously. A ratafia drop may be added. BRANDY, LEMON. Take 8 fine lemons having a clear unspotted skin and rough surface ; pare the rind off very thin, divide it into small shreds, put it into a bottle ; add 1 pint of spirits of wine—12 blanched and bruised bitter almonds are a judicious addition—cork the bottle, and let it stand six days. Make a syrup of 1 lb. of treble- refined sugar; bring it to the boil; let it cool; pour it into the bottle; shake the whole well; let it stand six days more; filter through blot- ting-paper; and the cordial is made. So pre- pared, it is perfectly clear, and of a fine, delicate lemon colour. It will be ready for drinking in a few weeks, but will be much better for being kept longer. BRANDY POSSET. Boil 1 quart of cream, with a stick of cinnamon in it, over a slow fire, and take it off to cool. Beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, mix the same with the cream, add some nutmeg and sugar to your taste, set it over a slow fire, and stir it all one way. When it appears like a fine custard take it off, and pour it into a basin with a glass of brandy; stir it gently, and sen'e it up. BRANDY PUDDING. Line a mould with stoned raisins or dried cherries, then lay thin slices of French roll; next put a layer of ratafias or macaroons, then the fruit, rolls, and cakes in succession until the mould is full, pouring in at times 2 glasses of brandy. Beat 4 eggs, yolks and whites separately, put to them I pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, and the rind of half a grated lemon; pour it into the mould, and when the solid has imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil an hour. Keep the mould the right side upwards. BRANDY, RASPBERRY. This is made nearly in the same way as Cheery Brandy, and drawn off with about an equal quantity of brandy, with the different infusions of cherries. But first make it of a light red colour, and omit the cinnamon and cloves at the first, but not in the second and third infusions. To colour the last two some cherry brandy must be added according to taste. BRANDY TO THE FEET. The custom of pouring brandy or any spirit into the boots or shoes when the feet have got wet, with a view to prevent the effects of cold, is a practice which, though veiy common, is founded in pre- judice and misconception, and often proves fatal by bringing on inflammation and consequent obstruction in the bowels. This practice is adopted upon the supposition that, because spirits, when swallowed, excite a universal warmth and restore the circulation in the ex- tremities, they must do the same when applied to the extremities themselves. But the reverse happens. Fluids when evaporating produce cold; and the lighter or more spirituous the fluid, the more quickly it evaporates, and the greater is the degree of cold generated. This maybe proved by a very simple experiment. If one hand be wetted with spirit and the other with water, and both are held up to dry in the air, the hand wetted with spirit will feel in- finitely colder than the other; or if the bulbs of two thermometers be so treated, the mercury will be observed to fall much more rapidly and extensively in the one case than in the other. Whatever danger, therefore, arises from cold or damp feet, it is generally enhanced by the practice alluded to. If such a remedy is to be at all employed, it ought, undoubtedly, to be taken into the stomach. The brandy, though so dangerous when poured into the shoes, is an excellent preventive when used properly, that is, taking off the stockings and rubbing a small portion upon the feet, and putting on a pair of dry stockings and shoes : it then has the very reverse effect, proving a stimulant and prevention of cold. BRANK. See Buckwheat. BRASS is one of the many alloys of copper that are used for making articles of daily use. Three parts of copper and one of calamine, or native carbonate of zinc, constitute brass; five or six of copper and one of zinc, form pinchbeck. Tombac has still more copper, and is of a deeper red than pinchbeck. Prince's metal is a similar compound, excepting that it contains more zinc than either of the former. A mixture of tin and copper with zinc forms bronze. Bell metal is also formed of about three parts copper and one of tin. In order to make brass the calamine is previously roasted ; it is then mixed with charcoal and grain copper, and put into larse crucibles, which are kept for a considerable time in a heat that will not melt the copper; afterBRA [ ] BRA a titne the beat is raised so as to fuse it, and the compound metal is then run into ingots. Brass is a valuable alloy on many accounts, especially for the superior brightness of its colour, in its not being so liable to taniish by exposure to the air as copper, and in its being more readily melted, and more malleable when cold. Sieves of extreme fineness are wove with brass wire, after the manner of cambric weaving, which could not possibly be wove with copper wire. BRASS ORNAMENTS. Brass ornaments, when not gilt or lackered, may be cleaned with a mixture of tripoli, with half its quantity of sulphur, intimately mingled on a marble slab, and laid on with a piece of soft leather; or emery and oil may be applied with excellent effect, not laid on in the usual slovenly way, but with a spongy piece of the fig tree, fully saturated with the mixture. This will not only clean, but polish, and render the use of whiting tinnecessarj% and a fine colour may be given to them by two simple processes. The first is to beat sal ammoniac into a fine powder, then to moisten it with soft water, rubbing it on the ornaments, which must be heated over a char- coal fire, and rubbed dry with bran and whiting. The second is to wash the brass-work with roche alum boiled in strong ley, in the proportion of 1 oz. to 1 pint; when dry it must be rubbed with fine tripoli. Either of these processes will give to brass the brilliancy of gold. BRAWN, the pickled flesh of the boar. Boars of all breeds, ages, and sizes are slaughtered for preparing it; but those which are largest in size and deepest in the shoulder are esteemed the best. They are generally fed upon beans, and have a mixture of sulphur in their drink, and are killed about Christmas. Their carcases are boiled, seasoned, freed from the bones, gammons, head, and feet, formed into collars, pickled, rolled up in cloth, and bound with tape. The precise method of preparation is, as much as possible, kept a secret by the manufacturers, and pro- bably varies in different establishments, and has been altered and modified in the general pro- gress of modern improvement. Oxford has the highest reputation for the making of brawn; but Canterbury manufactures the greatest quan- tity. Droves of boars come to the latter city about the middle of October, and are immediately placed aside to fatten, some singly and some in groups of three or four. BRAWN : To Bake. Take raw lean brawn, and the same quantity of fat bacon; mince them small, then pound them in a stone mortar, with a handful of sage, seasoned with pepper, salt, and ginger; add the yolks of eggs and some vinegar ; then put the brawn into a cold paste, lay on butter and bay leaves, make your pie round, and bake it. To be eaten cold. BRAWN: To Choose. To choose thig article observe whether the rind be soft; for if so it is young, but if it is thick and hard it is old. Should the rind and fat, however, be more than usually tender, it is not boar, but sow or barrow-brawn. BRAWN : To Sodse. Take a brawn about three years old; cut off the head close to the roots of the ears, and cut a fine collar off the side bone and hinder legs, an inch deeper in the belly than on the back ; bone them ; bind them up equally at both ends; let them lie in water to soak for a night and a day; put them into boil- ing water, keeping them continually skimmed, and after the first quick boiling lessen the fire by degrees; let them stand over it a whole night, then take them off, put them into deep hoops, and bind them with tape ; and when they are cold put them into oatmeal and bran boiled in water. Strain it, when it is cold, through a sieve ; put in vinegar and salt, and close up tho vessel tight, and keep it for use. BRAWN, A COLLAR OF. Wash, scrape, and clean very thoroughly a large pig's head, feet, and ears ; lay them in salt and water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. To make the collar layer, boil two ox-tails with the head, feet, and ears till all the bones can be taken out easily; then put the head round the mould, and the feet and small pieces into the middle ; put it together while hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it becomes cold. Boil for half an hour in as much of the liquor as will cover the brawn, one handful of salt, 1 oz. of pepper, and 1 or 2 bay leaves. When cold pour it over the brawn. BRAWN, MOCK. Take the bladebone out of the shoulder, and boil it gently two hours or more, according to the age of the boar. When it is cold season it veiy highly with pepper, Cayenne pepper, salt, a very little allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it lie a night in this seasoning. The following morning make a savoury force- meat of pounded veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, and au onion, a little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, pepper, and Cayenne pepper; bind it with a beaten egg, and stuff where the bone has been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with the brown side downwards, and lay under it twigs or small sticks, to keep it from sticking to the bottom; pour in a bottle of beer, and put it into the oven. When nearly done take it out, and clear off all the fat; add a bottle of Madeira and the juice of a large lemon ; return it to the oven, and bake it till it becomes as tender as a jelly, so that a straw will pierce it easily. If the boar is an old one it will require to be baked six or seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. BRAWN, SOUSE ¥0R. Boil i peck of ■wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rose-AERATED BREAD MADE BY MACHINERY. DR. DAUGLISH'S AERATED BREAD-MAKING MACHINE. Amongst the many arts and manufactures carried on for producing the necessaries of life, none exceed, in practical importance, that of making Bread; and yet, perhaps, of all others, it is that which has excited the least general interest. Indeed, it was not until a Pavliamentai-y Report was published, followed up by articles in the daily press, that any attention was paid to the way in which our Bread, " the staff of life," is manufactured. There are two great objections to the ordinary method of Bread-making; viz., the employment of yeast for fermenting, and of manual labour for kneading the dough. All fermenting matters cause a loss of flour, owing to the chemical changes which it undergoes during the fermentation, or "rising." Their object, indeed, is to produce, by that destruction of flour, a gas, which, whilst spreading through the substance of the dough, shall give it a lightness and porosity, by expanding the gluten, or most nourishing part of the Bread, into thin-sided cells. This condition is essential; for, otherwise, the Bread would be heavy, indigestible, and quite unfit as an article of daily food. It would, indeed, be in a similar condition to paste used in making the crust of pies, &c.— With respect to the employment of manual labour, it will be unnecessary to say more than that the revelations made by the Report, disclosed details of the most unpleasant nature in all respects. Machinery has long been employed in the dockyards for making biscuits for the navy; and various patents have been taken out for extending its operation to Bread-making. Amongst these, that of Dr. Dauglish is, perhaps, the most effective and valuable, for manual labour is completely done away with by it. The " rising" of the dough is effected by the use of carbonic acid gas, produced apart from the flour, S:c., and introduced mechanicalhj into the gluten; so that no chemical chaiic/e is at all produced during the manufacture. The above engraving illustrates the entire process. The flour is passed by the shoot, H, into a spherical vessel, F, in which knives rotate, moved by the cog-wheels, G, and which supersede manual labour in the process of kneading. The carbonic acid gas is produced in the vessel B, which contains chalk; this being decomposed by the gradual addition of a dilute acid, supplied by the .■Archimedean screw, C. The gas, after being carefully washed with water, is forced into the receivers, E, which are filled with pure water; the latter rapidly absorbs the gas, in a manner similar to that adopted in making soda-water. This aerated water is passed, under great pressure, into the vessel F, in which the flour is undergoing the process of kneading. After a time the dough is allowed to escape from this kneading-vessel, at L, and, on coming out of this opening, it rapidly expands, owing to the action of the gas in its pores. Thus the minute cells are produced without the employment of yeast, which, from being sour or putrid, often materially injures the Bread, and renders it unwholesome. The dough is received into tins, and conveyed by a railway to the oven, N ; and is, therefore, nerer touched iy the hands of the baker during any part of the process. The remaining letters indicate various portions of the motive power of the machinery, and the steam-boiler. The "Aerated Bread Company" has for some time carried on this method of manufacture in London, and it has opened Sixteen Bakeries, and over One Hundred Depots, in various parts of the Metropolis. Great success has attended its operations. The " National Provincial Aerated Bread Company" has been recently formed, for the purpose of spreading, throughout the country, the manufacture of a Bread which we can confidently recommend as the purest, most nutritious, and therefore most economical, of any which can be supplied to the public.BRE BRA [ 153 ] mary, in 2 gallons of water, with 4 ozs. of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain, and let it get cold. BRAZIL NUTS. These are the produce of a tree, native of Guiana, Brazil, and other parts of South America, called Caryocar tomentosum. They are not so soft and oily as the suwarrow, or butter nuts, which are the fruit of the Caryocar nuciferum. BRAZIL WOOD. This, produced by one or more species of Casalpinia, is used in the manufacture of various red dyes and red ink. See Dyeing and Ink. BREAD. We shall, in the first instance, confine our attention to the making of this from wheat-flour, and shall next give some notes relative to other vegetable products which have been used either as additions to or as substitutes for that flour. The process of making bread has been well detailed and explained in the " Magazine of Domestic Economy " as follows : —The bread used in this country is principally made from wheat-flour, and this bread is much more nutritious than that made fi'om any other grain. The flour of wheat consists principally of two ingredients: the one starch, the other gluten, there being in the best about 77 parts of starch and 20 parts of gluten in every 100 parts of the flour. Gluten, which contains ni- trogen, is found to be much more nutritious than starch, which contains very little, if any, of this elementary substance. Wheat-flour contains much more gluten than that got from any other grain. In the flour of the best wheat that is grown in this country gluten constitutes from 18 per cent, to 24 per cent.; in that of oats, only 6 per cent.; in that ! of barley, only 6 per cent.; in that of rye^ only 5 per cent.; in that of peas, only 4 per cent. Thus, then, wheat-flour contains three or four times as much gluten as that of any other grain ; and it is consequently very much more nutritious. But, according to the climate in which wheat is grown, the favourable or unfavourable nature of the season, the greater or less degree of cultiva- tion bestowed upon the soil it grows in, &c., does wheat contain more or contain less gluten. It is to this substance that dough owes its viscidity or tenacity, and it is necessarily more tenacious the more gluten the flour it is made from con- tains. Hence in the manufacture of vermicelli : and macaroni, it is necessary that the wheat , used should contain a very large quantity of i gluten ; and this is found to be especially the i case with a peculiarly hard kind of wheat, the i best sorts of which grow in certain parts of the South of Europe. It is, then, the gluten which is the more nourishing of the two ingredients of wheaten flour, and which gives the extremely viscid character to its dough. It therefore happens that the best flour—that which contains the most gluten—always makes the lightest bread, by preventing, in some degree, the escape of the products of the fermentation to which most of the bread that is eaten in the present day is subjected before it is baked. The process of baking bread consists in mix- ing wheat-flour with water, and forming it into dough. The average proportion is 2 parts of water to 3 parts of flour by weight. But this proportion varies considerably, according to the age and quality of the flour. In general, the older and the better the flour is, the greater is the quantity of water required. If the dough, after being thus formed, be allowed to remain for some time, the sugar undergoes a fermenta- tion, being decomposed into carbonic acid and alcohol. The gluten which exists in every part of this dough prevents the carbonic acid gas fi'om escaping. It therefore heaves up the dough in every part, and more than doubles its bulk. The fermentation, however, does not stop when the sugar is decomposed ; it continues to act upon the alcohol, and gradually converts it into acetic and lactic acids. The consequence of this last action, which cannot be prevented on account of the slowness of the vinous fermentation of the dough, is, that it acquires a sour taste and smell; and if it be baked in the oven, though the loaf is full of eyes, and possesses the characters of loaf bread, yet its acid taste and smell render it disagreeable to the palate, and unfit for the pur- poses of food. Dough that has been allowed to ferment in this way is called leaven. But if a small quantity of this leaven be mixed with new- made dough, and the mixture laid aside for a few hours, fermentation commences and goes on much more rapidly, so that the dough swells to at least twice its original bulk. If it be now put into the oven and baked, the fermentation is checked before any acid begins to be formed, and the bread is full of eyes, light, spongy, and sweet. The ancient Gauls and Spaniards, as we are informed by Pliny, contrived another method of bringing on a fermentation in dough. Instead of leaven they added to the dough a quantity of the yeast or barm which collects on the sur- face of fermenting beer. This addition occasions fully as speedy a fermentation as leaven, and it is not nearly so apt to give the bread a sour flavour. I About the end of the seventeenth cen- tury the bakers of Paris began to substitute yeast for leaven. The practice was discovered and exclaimed against. The faculty of medicine, in 1688, declared it prejudicial to the health; and many years elapsed before the bakers were able to convince the public that bread raised by means of yeast is better than that fermented by[ 154 ] BRE BRE leaven. Barm is now employed in preference to ieaven in every civilised country. In this country the yeast used by the bakers is made ailificially, cjiiefly from potatoes. The process followed by oi)r bakers is nearly as follows:—A certain quantity of salt is dis: solved in water, the temperature of which varies, according to cii'cumstances, from 70° to 100"?. Yeast is mixed with this water, and then a por^ tion of flour is added, but always less than is ultimately employed in forming the finished dough. The mixture is covered up and set apart in a warm place. Fermentation begins to be evident in about an hour. The sponge (so the imperfect dough is called) begins to swell up in consequence of the evolution of car- bonic acid gas. This gas, being confined by the adhesive nature of the gluten, heaves up the sponge to ftwice its original bulk. Being no longer capable of containing this pent-up gas, it bursts and subsides. This alternate rising 9,nd falling of the sponge might be repeated a great many times; but unless .the baker stops it afte|r the second, or, g,t the utmost, the third drop^ ping of the sponge, the bread invariably proves sour. He, therefore, at this period, adds to the sponge the remaining quantity of flour, water, and salt, and incorporates these new materials with the sponge by a long and laborious course of kneading. After this the dough is left to itself for a few hours, during which time it con- tinues in a state of active fermentation, diffused through every part of it. It is then subjected tQ a second, but much less laborious kneading, in order to distribute the imprisoned gas as equally as possible through the whole dough. It is now weighed out into the portions requisite to form the kinds of bread desired. These portions are shaped into loaves, and set aside for an hour or two in a warm situation. The fermentation still goes on, and gradually expands the mass to double its former bulk. They are now put into the oven and baked into loaves. The mean heat of a baker's oven, as ascer- tained by M. Tillet, is 448°. The bakers do not use a thermometer, but judge that it has arrived at the proper heat when flour, thrown on the floor of it, becomes black very soon without taking fire. This heat immediately stops the fermentation, but the gas already generated is swelled out by the heat, and gives the loaf its characteristic vesicular structui"e. When bread is taken out of the oven it is lighter than when put in, from the evaporation of a portion of moisture during the baking. It would appear, also, from the analysis of bread by M. Vogel, that a portion of the starch is con- verted into sugar. A few years before the be- ginning of the French Revolution the French bakers petitioned their government to investigate the loss of weight which bread sustains in the oven, alleging that the loss was very various, and that, on that account, they had been fre- quently taxed with dishonesty without reason. M. Tillet and the other commissioners appointed to investigate the subject, in consequence of this petition, fonnd that a loaf which weighed, be- fore it was put into the oven, 4-625 lbs., was reduced, at an average, to 3 813 lbs.; so that it lost 17'54 pef cent, of its original weight. This somewhat exceeds one-sixth of the original weight pf the dough, '^hey found, however, that this loss of weight was by no means uniform, even when the nature of the dough, the heat of the oven, the situation of the loaves, and every other appreciable circumstance was exactly the same. The di9"erence amountpd in some cases to 7^ per cent. Other things being the same, the loss of weight sustained is proportional to the extent pf surface of the loaf, and to the length of time that it remains in the oyen. A loaf was weighed after being baked, and was found to weigh exactly 4 lbs. Being replaced in the oven for ten minutes and then weighed again, it weighed one-eighth pf a pound less than before. Being put again into the oven for ten minutes, it sustained an additional loss of weight amounting to one-six- teenth of a pound. Loaves are heaviest when just taken out of the oven. Unless they be kept in a damp place pr wrapped round with a wet cloth they gradually lose weight. Thus Tillet found that a loaf, weighing at first 4 lbs., had lost, after being kept a week, about one-thirteenth of its original weight. Newrbaked bread possesses a peculiar taste and smell, which it loses by keeping, unless it be wrapped round with a wet towel. In that case much of the taste and smell ai-e preseiwed. The crust and the part of the bread next to it are much more easily digested than the inner part of the loaf, because from the former the products of fermentation have been the most completely expelled. But another remark should go hand in hand with this. The bro^raer the crust the more have the nuti'itive elementsof the bread been altered or driven off by the heat, and the greaterthe proportion of charcoal in what remains. The main elementary ingredients in flour are carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. By heat, if intense, the three last are driven off as steam or as gases, the former only remaining^ Burnt bread is, therefore, neither more nor less than charcoal, and is deprived of all its power of affording nourishment to the system. The more nearly the bread is brought to this state the more the other elements are lost, the greater is the proportion of carbon in what remains; and the less of nutritive properties does it possess. We have, then, several good reasons for saying to our readers, Let your bread be bakedBRE BRE [ 155 ] in small loaves, but not less than 4-lb. loaves, for if smaller the bread is insipid. One of these reasons is, that such bread is more entirely freed from the products of fermentation; they must escape much more completely from a small loaf than from a larger one. There is, in the second place, less necessity for putting the bread into a very hot oven, or for continuing it in the oven so long as to deprive the outer part of its nu^ tritious particles. Such bread is sweeter to the taste than bread made in large loaves, because it is more entirely freed from the products of fermentation, and for the same reason it is more digestible. Looking upon this matter in a pecuniary point of view, from any given number of pounds of flour, baked in small loaves, a larger quantity of nourishing matter will be obtained than if it be baked in large loaves, while the bread will be both more palatable and more wholesome. It will now be no very difficult m.atter for the reader to understand why it is found so useful by many sufferers from indigestion to have their bread toasted. By this, in fact, the products of fermentation are still further expelled; and, pi'ovided the process be not carried too far, the loss of nourishment is comparatively trifling. To bum toast is not only a proof of careless^ ness, and not only renders the burned parts almost uneatable, but it is an absolute waste, seeing that they afford little more nourishment than would be derived from swallowing an equal quantity of chai'coal. We may mention another fact which is worth the attention of some people. Toast allowed to stand till it is cold before it is eaten is much more wholesome, or at least much less likely to interfere with the functions of the stomach, than if it be eaten hot; ajid some of our readers, who may be particular in such matters, will be glad to hear that, in our opinion, toast is more digestible, as well as more palat- able, if placed on end while cooling, than if allowed to lie flat on the table or the plate. We have hitherto spoken of bread as made of the flour of the finest wheat, without any addi- tions to it. The viscidity of the dough is neces- sai'ily much diminished if any of the covering , or husk of the grain is left in combination with the flour. At the same time the lightness or porosity of the bread made from it is lessened; and, owing to this, the products of fermentation, &c., do not so completely escape during the baking. In some people its tendency to dis- agree with the stomach is, in this way, very materially increased. Yet in the mass of people, ■whose stomachs seldom complain unless they are dreadfully overworked, and with whom the' I chief grievance is a confined state of the bowels,. I this kind of bread is for the most part found to j agree much better than that into the composi- tion of which flour only enters. The husks, in fact, mechanically irritate the stomach and bowels, and promote the propulsion of the ingesta through them. To the classes we have spoken of we would strongly recommend this kind of bread, or at all events an occasional use of it; but with a man who has a otorbidly sensible stomach, or feeble powers of digestion, it will seldom indeed be found to agree, and to suih we should certainly not recommend its use. It will have been observed that we advise some to use inferior flour, or, what is commonly called, brown bread—which is seldom anything but a mixture of very coarse w heat and rye flour—when they find, for the reasons we have mentioned, that fine bread does not suit them. Such bread is often far from wholesome, as well as being anything but nutritious. It may be depended on that the best flour—that which contains the largest proportional quantity of gluten—is al- ways the cheapest; affords, weight for weight, more nourishment than suffices to counterbalance the trifling difference of price. Let us add another word to this. Those who ■want good, sound, well-fermented, and well-baked bread, made of the best flour, with or without some or the whole of the husks of the grain, and without any other addition to this than water, yeast, and salt must make it and bake it at home. Our remarks will probably never go so far as to injure the bakers ; but if they were to do so the cause of the complaint would be done away with. For so great is the prejudice of people in favour of white-looking bread— bread that is really whiter than it could be made fi'om the finest flour that was ever seen, that, in self-defence, bakers have been compelled to resort to means that enable them to please the eyes of their customers, although at the expense of the wholesomeness of the article they vend. And bread so adulterated, in order to render it of a sufficiently white colour, affords an almost irresistible temptation to adulterate the mass still further, from the next to impossibility of detecting the adulteration in such bread. What is added for this purpose is always less nutritious than wheat-flour, and thus it does negative if not positive hai-m. Flour ought not to be used immediately after being ground, because in its fresh state it is too glutinous to make good bread. It should be kept dry for several weeks, stirred every day in summer, and at least every second day in colder weather, until it becomes quite dry, loose. a!id yielding between the fingers. A bushel of good flour made from dry. well- harvested wheat, and freed from bran and pol- lard, weighs 56 lbs. : such flour will make the whitest bread; but it is dear in the first instance, and will not yield so great an increase as thatBEE BRE [ 150 ] coarser sort. However, it is desirable to mahe fiue bread occasionally; and, indeed, medically considered, it is the most suitable to persons who are subject to a relaxed state of the stomach. Brown Bread of exceedingly fine flavour can be economically made by mixing 5 parts of grist tiour (a term we shall shortly explain) with i part of the finest pollard [middlings or toppings, as they are locally styled). We prefer this mixed meal, believing it to be cleaner and more pure than the coarse, cheap flour of the mills. Grist flour is always to be preferred for every purpose, excepting that of making pastry. It is made from the best wheat, divested of the coarse bran only. None can have this fine and sweet flour but those who purchase wheat and send it to the mill: Is. (irf. or 2s. per sack is paid for the grinding, and the bran and flour are both delivered back to the purchaser. A sack of wheat weighs iJlOlbs.: if 190 lbs. of flour be sent home from the mill, and from 40 lbs. to 45 lbs. of bran, the wheat may be considered of very good quality ; we have seen only 178 lbs. of flour returned from a sack of wheat. After these remarks we shall presume that 24 lbs. of the mixed flour be used to make a small batch of family bread; as it will absoi'b water to a great extent, 32 lbs. will be the final result: 24 lbs. of white flour will not ordinarily yield more than 30 lbs. or 31 lbs. A large family may be supposed to bake a bushel of flour weekly; but as one composed of only three or four persons cannot consume so much, we prefer to confine our calculations to 24 lbs. of flour, which will afford us the grounds of a very ready estimate of quantities and results. But in order to convert flour to bread it must undergo fermentation. Neither dough nor beer will ferment well unless it be brought to 60°, and as the former must be completed in a few hours, not less than 70° or 75° ought to be applied. However, not to mul- tiply (iifiiculties, we will state that 1 pint of really good, thick yeast should be employed if the batch to be baked contains 1 bushel of flour, and that the 24 lbs. named will take \ pint of brewers' yeast, or a large tea-cupful of the thick sediment from that of home-brewed beer. In either case the yeast is to be diluted with a pint of milkwarm water (98°) or sweetwort. The management of this ferment is of the greatest importance, and the yeast of home- brewed beer is rnuch to be preferred; but it is veiy bitter in the first instance, and would flavour a large batch of bread; therefore, it should be washed in a considerable quantity of water, and be set by for some hours till the thick mass subsides; this, if it still continue bitter, should undergo the same process again ; the firm sediment will then be good stiff barm, from which all floating water should be poured. "Whether this substance or the yeast from the brewery be employed it should always be mixed with 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of fresh bran and 1 pint of warm water, and then be strained through a hair sieve. Bran abstracts much of the bitter principle, and also adds life to the yeast. If the brewers' yeast be flat and lifeless it may be much improved by adding a pint of warm sweet- wort to it instead of the milkwarm water. To prepare this wort take 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of ground malt, simmer it for a quarter of an hour in 1| pint of water, with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar or honey, and 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Let these ingredients digest, on a cool part of the grate or elsewhere, till they become milk- warm, then strain off the liquor, and add it to the yeast, stir the whole well together, and the mixture will be fit for use. Process of setting the sponge. Put the 24 lbs. of flour into an oblong wooden baking-trough or a glazed earthen pan, large enough to contain twice the quantity of the flour employed. Make a deep, round hole in the centre of the flour, and pour into it the diluted yeast; stir into it with a large spoon so much of the surrounding meal as will make it up into a sort of batter of the consistence of thin paste. This process is called setting the sponge. Cover the mixture with dry flour to the depth of at least the eighth of an inch, and then throw over the trough or pan a linen or woollen cloth. Many pei-sons omit this useful preparatory process, but the bakers always adopt it. The object is to give strength and character to the ferment by com- municating the quality of leaven to a small por- tion of the flour, a quality which then is soon extended to the whole mass. Chemists term the action so excited the panary fermentation, in contradistinction to that which yeast gives to the wort of malt, &c. Setting sponge is also a measure of wise precaution, for many a batch of flour, which would have been totally ruined for bread had the barm been foul or inert, and mixed up at first with the entire bulk of flour, has been saved by this test of the goodness of the yeast. To make bread that will never be bitter. Sup- pose you want to bake a bushel of flour, put it into your kneading-trough, then take about \ pint of warm water and 1 tea-spoonful of yeast. Stir it in till it is thoroughly mixed with the water; then make a hole in the middle of the flour large enough to contain 2 gallons of water. Pour in your small quantity; then take a stick, and stir in some of the flour until it is as thick as you would make for a batter pudding; then strew some of the dry flour over it, and go about your usual bushiessfor an hour. Then take a quart more of wana water, andBRE C 157 ] BRE pour in ; for in one hour you will find tbat small quantity raised, so that it will break through the dry flour you shook over it; and when you have poured in your quart of warm water, take your stick as before, and stir in some more flour until it is as thick as before; then shake some dry flour over it, and leave it for two hours more, and then you will find it rise and break through the dry flour again ; then you may add 3 quarts or 1 gallon of water, and stir in the flour, and make it as thick as at first, taking care to cover it with dry flour again, and in about three or four hours more you mix up your dough, and then cover it up warm; and in four or five hours more you may make it up into loaves, and put it in the oven, and you will have as light a bread as though you had used a pint of yeast. It does not take above a quarter of an hour more than the usual way of baking, for there is no time lost but that of adding the water three or four times. The author of this method assures us that he constantly bakes in this way. In the morning, about six or seven o'clock, he puts the flour in the trough, and mixes up the spoonful of yeast with the warm water; in an hour's time some more, in two hours more, and about noon makes up the dough, and about six in the evening it is put into the oven, and he has al- ways good bread, never heavy or bitter. Forming the dough. After the sponge has stood some time it will be found to have swelled considerably, and formed cracks in the covering of flour: when these cease to increase and widen it will be time to make up the dough. Flour, we have said, drinks up a considerable quantity of water; in fact, it becomes chemically com- bined with it; but few persons can form an opinion how much is absorbed. On this point housewives are far too remiss; for though per- fectly dry and good meal will take up much more water than that prepared from ill-harvested, sprouted corn, and though, also, the same flour will, in different states of weather, vary in its absorbent power, yet there exists too much of a careless ignorance on this important point. We request that the conscientious economist will note carefully every result, and thus make an approach towards accuracy; and in the mean- time we state that, as 24 lbs. of good flour will yield about 32 lbs. of bread, the weight thus increased must chiefly be acquired from the volume of water absorbed, which will be 1 gallon. Again, since much gas and vapour are expelled during the rising and baking of the dough, 2 quarts more of water should be allowed: the proportions then would be 24 lbs. of flour to 12 lbs. (pints) of water, and, therefore, that quantity, or more, should be at hand, heated to the degree of new milk. In winter the heat ought to be considerably higher; but in all seasons, as flour is a cold, heavy substance, it will require to be assisted by a genial tempe- rature. Everything being in readiness, scatter about 4 ozs. of salt over the dry flour, put some warm water to the sponge, work some of the flour into it, and thus add portions of water and flour till the whole becomes sufficiently moist to be formed, by kneading with the fists, into a firm, compact dough. The texture must be such that it can be brought together into a solid mass in the middle of the trough or pan, and then it is to be dusted over with flour to prevent it from adhering to the surface of the vessel. This dough is to stand covered over to swell, and in cold weather the vessel should be placed near the fire. If the ferment be well formed in the sponge it will act upon and distend the whole mass in the course of an hour. We have seen it rise and swell so much as to fill the vessel and raise up the covering cloth; and, like the sponge, it ought to be taken at the height of the action, and formed into loaves before it begins to fall back. Heating the oven. By the term oven we mean to express one built of and arched at the top with sound bricks, the bottom being laid with good tiles close-jointed. Bricks are slow con- ductors of heat; they receive it gradually, and retain it pertinaciously. Hence a baker's oven, which is heated daily, or nearly so, always pro- duces the best and most equally baked loaves. Iron, on the contrary, is a rapid conductor. Hence, though the oven will become hot enough, it cannot retain its temperature without per- petual accessions of actual fire. The bread, therefore, is either burnt, or it is unequally baked; frequently, also, the loaves are flat nnd their texture too solid. ] f the batch required be large, and the family possess a good bread "ven, the bread, of course, will be baked at home ; but if there be no proper oven, and three or four small or middling-sized loaves be made, it will be wise to send them to a baker, with whom an agree- ment may readily be made to bake them u]ion very moderate terms. Many persons adopt this method, and we know a family which has the finest bread we ever saw, where the loaves are prepared and sent to a baker twice a week. The disadvantage of an oven at home is this: it becomes cold, and therefore can never, by any weekly heating, be uniformly soaked, as it is termed. The baker's oven never loses its heat: the bread, therefore, I'ises higher, and is lighter. We recommend it then, as a point of economy, that a small family should not generally attempt to bake at home. Furze, small brushwood, and sound faggots are the best materials for the fire. With the first (where it is at hand) it can be lighted, and a blaze of intense heat maintained till the bulk of hot fuel be sufficient to kindle[ 156 I BEE BRE the faggots. One hour will bring a good oven to that state which will raise the bread to its height, and then heat the loaf to its centre with- out charring the crust; therefore it may be laid down as a good general rule that the fire should be kindled at the same time that the dough is made up. There is d.n art of heating an oven with pre- cision, which can only be acquired by observa- tion and practice, unless, indeed, it happen that the operator, as is sometimes the case, possess a sort of intuitive perception of the effects of fire. A criterion of a well-heated oven used to be the whiteness of a stone, called technically the baker, which formerly was built into the wall towards the further end of the oven. These stones are now rarely admitted; therefore a judgment must be formed by the clearness of the bricks of the sides and arch, and by the lively sparkling of the embers. The formet criterion proves that the bricks have received enough of body heat to consume that black car- bonaceous coating which the smoke conimuni- cates to them at the early stage of fire; the second shows that the principle of combustion is in full activity, and not rendered inert by a cold surface either at the top, bottom, or sides. Finally, if the brickwork be hot enough, and the point of a long stake be rubbed forcibly over any part of it, so as for the moment to make a black trace of charcoal, this trace will be burnt off, and the bricks left clear in a second of time. We cannot particularise further now, therefore suffice it to observe that the dough being com- pletely up, and the oven hot nearly together, the former must be cut, and slightly pressed, not forcibly kneaded, and rolled into the form of loaves, which are to be dusted over with flour one by one, while another person draws out the hot embers with a hook of iron fixed at the end of a long pole, and cleans the bottom of the oven with a wet mop made of long shreds of woollen cloth or coarse sacking. The loaves are then placed side by side in the oven by means of an instrument called a baking-peel, which consists of a flat beech board fixed to a long handle. This board, as well as the loaves, should be dredged with flour, so as absolutely to prevent adhesion of the dough to the board of the peel. When the loaves are in the oven the door must be securely closed, and if the fire have been well managed, the bread will be regularly baked in an hour and a half or two hours, according to the size of the loaves. If an iron oven, such as is usually attached to a kitchen-range, be employed, it should have tiles put upon the bottom to place the loaves upon, as it keeps the underneath part of the loaves from burning. If leaven be employed instead of yeast it should, on the preceding evening, be deprived of its hard crust, and dissolved with a little, scarcely milk- warm, water; then carefully mixed with about a third part of the flour to be used for baking, and kneaded into a soft dough by adding more tepid water. A small quantity of flour is put on the top; and, thus prepared, it will be neces- sary to cover the trough with blankets, and suifer it to stand in a moderately-warm place till the following morning that it may rise and duly ferment. The I'eniainiug two-thirds of the flour mUst then be added, with a proportionate quantity of lukewarm water, and the whole kneaded into such an elastic dough as will draw into strings without breaking, and not adhere to the fingers. In this state it is again covered, and allowed to stand while preparations are making in the oven, and not disturbed till it begins gently to rise, when it should be formed into loaves.—(r/tomsou's Vegetable Chemistry. Magazine of Domestic Economy.) In times of scarcity various additions have been made to the flour. Turnips have been so employed. The process is to put the turnips into a kettle over a slow fire till they become soft; they are then taken out, squeezed, and drained as dry as possible, and afterwards mashed and mixed with an equal weight of flour, and kneaded with yeast, salt, and a little warm water. The following is another method of making bread of turnips which deserves to be recom- mended for its cheapness :—Wash cleau, pare, and afterwards boil a number of turnips till they become soft enough to mash; press the greatest part of the water out of them, then mix them with an equal weight of wheat-meal, make the dough in the usual manner with yeast, &c. It will rise well in the trough, and, after being well kneaded, may be formed into loaves, and put into the oven. Bread prepared in this man- ner has a peculiar sweetish taste, which is by no means disagreeable. It is as light and white as wheaten, and should be kept about twelve hours before it is cut, when the smell and taste of the turnip will scarcely be perceptible. Potatoes have also been made into bread by different processes. The simplest is to choose the large mealy sort, boil them as for eating, then peel and mash them veiy fine, without adding any water. Two parts of wheat-flour are added to one of potatoes, and a little more yeast than usual. The whole mass is to be kneaded mto dough, and allowed to stand a proper time to rise and ferment before it is put into the oven. Bread thus prepared is good and wholesome; and if bakers were to make use oi no worse in- gredients than this nutritive root they might be justified, in times of scarcity, provided they sold it at a moderate price, and under proper limita- tions. An c.'ccellent method of maiung bread of rice[ 159 ] BRE BRE is by boiling three-fourths of wheaten flour and one-fourth of rice separately. The rice should be well boiled, the water squeezed out (which may be afterwards used as starch for linen, for there can be no better), and the mass should then be mixed with the flour. It is made in the same manner as common bread, and is very nutritive. One pound and a half of flour mixed with i lb. of rice, will produce a loaf weighing from 3 lbs. to 3 lbs. 2 ozs., which is greater than that obtained by baking bread of wheaten flour only. Rice has also been tried in the same proportion with barley, and makes good bread for labouring people ; but the gain in baking is by no means equal to that obtained by mixing it with wheat. Another mode of preparing bread with all the bran {see Bran) is as follows:— Take 7 lbs. 7 ozs. of bran and pollard, and 14 quarts of water, and boil the whole very gently over a slow fire. When the mixture begins to swell and thicken let it be frequently stirred, to prevent its boiling over, or burning either at the bottom or sides of the vessel. After having boiled two hours, it will acquire the consistence of a thin pudding. Now put it into a clean cloth and squeeze out the liquor ; take a quart of this, mix it with 3 pints of yeast, and set the sponge for 28 lbs. of flour. The mass, bran and pollard, even after the liquor has been separated, will be found to be above four times its original weight; it is then to be placed near the fire. In about two hours the sponge will have sufficiently risen. The bran and pollard, then lukewarm, should be mixed with the flour; and, after adding ^ lb. of salt, the whole must be well kneaded, with 1 quart of the bran liquor. Thus prepared the dough is formed into loaves and baked for two hours and a quarter in a common oven. The bread, when cold, will weigh one half more than the same quantity of flour would, without the addition of the bran. If the bran water only is used, and the bran itself (which, by the boiling, increases con- siderably in weight) is not added to the dough, the increase of bread will still be considerable ; but not more than one-third of the increase obtained when all the bran is used. Rye flour is sometimes mixed with that of wheat in the proportion of J lb. of rye to 3 lbs. of wheat, and fermented in the usual way. It may also be used for family pie crust. Bread and crust so made is somewhat sweeter and closer in texture than when made of wheat-flour alone. Parsnips and beet-root boiled, reduced to a fine pulp, and mixed with four times their weight of wheat-flour, make a wholesome bread. BREAD BAKED IN PANS. Put a peck of fine flour, called Hertfordshire whites, into a wooden bowl that has been previously warmed. Let it stand before the fire for about an hour, then mix up a sufficient quantity of salt and yeast with warm water, and make up the bread at once, instead of setting a small quantity to work in the first instance, as is generally prac- tised; In this way it stands covered with a cloth before the fire for about three hours ; it is then made up into loaves and put in earthen- ware pans and set ihto a quick oven. When well soaked and nearly done they are taken out of the pans and set on tins for a few minutes, in order that the crust may become brown; they are then taken out and wrapped in flannel, and, when cold, rasped. Bread made in this manner is much lighter than the common baker's bread, and when cut puts on the appear- ance of a honeycomb. It is necessary to re- mark that the dough must by no means be near so stiff as usual. BREAD CRUMBS (Fried). Rub the crumb of bread which has been baked two days through a wire sieve, or cullender; or you may rub it in a cloth till the particles ai'e as fine as if they had been grated and sifted ; put them into a stevvpan with 2 ozs. of butter, place it over a moderate fire, and stir them about with a wooden spoon till they are the colour of a guinea; spread them on a sieve and let them stand ten minutes to drain, turning them frequently. Fried crumbs are sent up with roasted sweetbreads, or larks, pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, and grouse, or moor game. BREAD, FRENCH. With J peck of fine flour mix the yolks of 3 and whites of 2 eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, ^ pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough. Stir it about, but do not knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. BREAD PUDDING. Take a pint of bread- crumbs, put them in a stevvpan with as much milk as will cover them, the peel of a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg, a small piece of cinnamon; boil about ten minutes; sweeten with powdered loaf sugar ; take out the cinna- mon, and put in 4 eggs ; beat all well together, and bake half an hour, or boil rather more than an hour. BREAD ROLLS. Warm 1 oz. of butter in t pint of milk, put to it H spoonful of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put 2 lbs. of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour ; knead it well; make into 7 rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they resemble Sally Lunn's, as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled[ 160 J BRE BRE in hfllf a tea-cupful of milk, makes them remark- ably good. BREAD ROLLS (Brf.ntforb). Mix with Q lbs. of flour a little salt, 2 ozs. of sifted sugar, 4 ozs. of butter, and 2 eggs beaten, witli 2 spoons- ful of yeast, and about 1 pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 12 rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire to rise till they become of a proper size; then bake half an hour. BREAD ROLLS (French). Rub 1 oz. of butter into 1 lb. of flour; mix 1 egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead; let it rise, and bake on tins. BREAD ROLLS (Potato). Boil 3 lbs. of potatoes, bruise and work them with 2 ozs. of butter, and as much milk as will make them pass through a cullender. Take ^ pint or f pint of yeast, and ^ pint of warm water, mix with the potatoes, then pour the whole upon 6 lbs. of flour, and add some salt. Knead it well: if not of a proper consistence, put a little more milk and warm water; let it stand before the fire an hour to rise ; work it well, and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat well toasted and but- tered. BREAD SAUCE. Put a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs into a stewpan, pour on them as much milk as they will soak up, and a little more; or, instead of the milk, take the giblets, head, neck, legs, &c., of the poultry, or game, and stew them and moisten the bread with this liquor; put it on the fire with a middling-sized onion, and a dozen berries of pepper, or allspice, or a little mace. Let it boil, stir it well, and let it simmer till it is quite stiff, and then put to it about 2 table-spoonsful of cream or melted butter, or a little good broth ; take out the onion and pepper and it is ready. BREAD SIPPETS (Fried). Cut a slice of bread about J inch thick, divide it with a sharp knife into pieces 2 inches square; shape these into triangles or crosses ; put some very clean fat into an iron frying-pan. When it is hot put in the sippets and fry them a delicate light brown ; take them up with a fish-slice and drain them well from fat, turning them occasionally : this will take a quarter of an hour. Keep the pan at such a distance from the fire that the fat may be hot enough to brown without burning : this is a requisite precaution in frying delicate thin things. These are a pretty garnish, and very welcome accompaniment and improvement to the finest made dishes. They may also be sent up with pea and other soups; but when intended for soups the bread must be cut into bits about ^ inch square. BREAD, UNFERMENTED. We have repeatedly partaken, in different families, of un- fermented bread; but we feel bound to say we have never yet met with any that we found equal, in lightness, sweetness, or apparent digestibility or wholesomeness,to well-made fermented bread. However, to satisfy the curious, and such as may like to try the experiment, we transcribe the two following recipes from a publication entitled " In- structions for Making Unfermented Bread : "— To make White Bread. Take of flour, dressed or households, 3 lbs. avoirdupois; bi- carbonate of soda, in powder, 9 drachms, apothe- caries' weight ; hydrochloric (muriatic) acid (specific gravity I'l 6), 11| drachms fluid; water, about 25 ozs. fluid. To make Bro™ Bread. Take of wheaten meal, 3 lbs. avoirdupois; bicarbonate of soda, in powder, 10 drachms, apothecaries' weight; hy- drochloric (muriatic) acid (specific gravity ]"16), 12| drachms fluid; water, about 25ozs. fluid. First, mix the soda and the flour as thoroughly as possible. This is best done by shaking the soda from a small sieve over the flour with one hand, while the flour is stirred with the other, and then passing the mixture once or twice through the sieve. Next, pour the acid into the water, and diffuse it perfectly, by stirring them well together with a rod of glass or wood. Then, mix intimately the flour and the water so pre- pared as speedily as possible, using a wooden spoon or spatula for the purpose. The dough thus formed will make 2 loaves somewhat larger than half-quarterns. They should be put into a quick oven without loss of time. Muriatic acid, it may be remarked, is the spirit of salt of commerce. Combined with soda, which is the basis of common salt, and thus mixed in bread, it is perfectly wholesome. BREAKFAST. This, the first meal of the day, after some hours of rest, and to recommence the labours of the stomach, deserves more cir- cumspection than it usually receives. Habit has rendered tea or coffee and bread and butter almost synonymous with the word breakfast, but there is no doubt that those suffei'ing from weak digestion would find gruel or beef tea less productive of dyspepsia and its evils than either of the usual beverages at this meal. Those of stronger digestion would do well to consider the following recommendation:—Breakfast, not later than eight o'clock, ought, in rigid training, to consist of plain biscuit (not bread), broiled beef- steaks or mutton-chops, underdone, without any fat, and half a pint of mild bottled ale—the genuine Scotch ale is the best. Our fair readers will not demur at this, when they are told that this was the regular breakfast of Queen Eliza- beth and Lady Jane Grey. But should it be found too strong fai'e at the commencement, we[ 161 ] BRE BRE permit, instead of the ale, one small breakfast- cup, not more, of good strong black tea or coffee (weak tea or coffee is always bad for the nerves as well as the complexion). If tea or coffee is taken, the half pint of ale is to be used three hours after breakfast with a biscuit on returning from good walking exercise. Whether break- fast be partaken of before or after gentle exer- cise may be left to the individual choice; we prefer the exercise afterwards. Supposing the usual routine to be followed, we may observe that breakfast is a meal that is often overlooked in the arrangement of a house- hold. All the attention appears, in such cases, to be devoted to the dinner; but nothing denotes a well-ordered establishment more than seeing a nicely-laid breakfast and lunch-table. Few sights can be more grateful to the " half-opened eye " than on descending to the bi'eakfast-room to find a cloth white as snow, laid without a crease. The hissing urn at one end, coffee or cocoa at the other; home-made bread (white and brown) on wooden platters ; butter, made up into small pats, floating in pure spring water; a rack of light brown toast, and a plate of water- cresses " culled from the rippling stream ;"—= such a breakfast is within the means of any one of our readers. There is nothing expensive about it—nothing " out of the way." All that is required is, a little arrangement, great neat- ness, excessive cleanliness; and this can he accomplished as well if the establishment consists of one or of several servants. " The master's eye does more work than both his hands " is a very true saying, and equally applicable to the " young housekeeper" as to the farmer, for whom the maxim was originally intended. Of course, if your means will permit, many other things can be added, and your table may "groan with all the delicacies of the season," but do not have meat placed on the table at which you sit; it destroys tlie primitive, com- fortable look a breakfast-table ought to have. The only additions are hot rolls, buttered muffins, and a " dish of curd-like looking eggs." The siibstantials must be placed on the sideboard, and should consist of home-cured ham, savoury pie, spiced beef or hung beef, and a hot dish, which can be varied according to what the cook can command from her larder. Tea-making. Doctors differ materially as to the manner of making tea; but we like the old- fashioned method of putting the tea in first, and pouring the boiling water on it, adding as much carbonate of soda as will lie easily on the handle of a tea-spoon. M. Soyer recom- mends the tea-leaves being heated over a spirit lamp before the water is poured on them. Other authors prefer the tea-pot being filled with water fir.st, and then the leaves added. We believe the great secret in tea-making to be this:—Put plenty of tea into the pot, and have the water quite boiling. Coffee is very often a failure, particularly if made in the kitchen. The surest way of having it always the same is, to make it the day before in a biggin, and then the cook will have nothing to do but boil it up in the morning, and pour it, whilst very hot, into your coffee-pot. If you like it strong you must allow a coffee- cupful of ground coffee to three cupsful of water. A very nice and economical way of making coffee is the cafe au lait, patronised so much by our neighbours. We never procured the receipt from a French cook, therefore we cannot tell if our mode of preparing it is the same as theirs, but the result is good:—Put two table- epoonsful of ground coffee into a coffee-pot, with i pint of milk, and 4 or 5 shreds of isin- glass ; let it boil ten minutes, and then leave it by the side of the fire to fine. Pour it through a piece of fine muslin into your coffee-pot. If you wish for good coffee, make a rule never to buy it ready-ground, and always purchase it at one of the best shops in the place. Inferior coffee is worse than inferior tea. See Coffee. Cocoa and chocolate are very easily made : directions are always inclosed in the paper in which they are sold. Eolh. There are numerous receipts for making good rolls ; we find the following a simple and sufficiently rich one :—Warm i pint of milk, with a piece of butter in it about the size of a large walnut; add a table-spoonful and a half of yeast and a little salt. Mix this with 2 lbs. of flour, and, when it has risen, knead it and divide into rolls. Bake in a quick oven. Rolls should not be made larger than the top of a wine-glass ; and care must be taken that the dough is not joined at the top of the roll. A little practice will soon show the cook how this can be prevented. Before placing them in the oven the rolls should be washed with a little milk, which gives them nearly as good a gloss as if an egg were used. Muffins are not so easily made; and, if possible, we advise their being purchased ; but, if you prefer making them at home, this receipt is a good one :—Make a batter with 1 pint of M-arm milk, \ pint of yeast, a little salt, and sufficient flour. When it has risen add \ ])\nt of warm milk and enough flour to make a dough. Cover it up, and when it has stood half an hour, break it into pieces, and round them to the proper shape with the hand. Bake on a hot plate or stove, and when one side is sufix- ciently brown, turn them. Dry toast. There is more attentioA required in making dry toast than people generally M[ 162 ] BRE BRE suppose. It should be cut from a loaf that has been baked in a tin, and it should never be made till the moment before it is wanted. In toasting the slices, care must be taken to move them constantly backwards and forwards before the fire, which process will prevent toast burning, and will make it a nice uniform brown colour. Hung beef is a very favourite dish with ladies; it is sent to table finely grated and ornamented with parsley. It is usually bought quite ready for boiling. It should be put on in boiling water, and kept boiling all the time. A piece weighing 6 lbs. will take an hour and a lialf to boil. Do not grate it till it is quite cold. Sausages make a very good hot breakfast-dish. We always prefer making them at home, though epicures assure us that home-made sausages are not worth eating. The following method of preparing them is very good :—Chop very fine Ijlb. of lean pork and fib. of beef suet 3 table-spoonsful of grated bread, the yolks of 2 eggs; beat the whole well together in a mortar, and season very highly with sage, black pepper, and salt. When thoroughly mixed put it into a jar and exclude the air as much as possible. When required for breakfast, the mass must be formed into sausage shapes, or into round balls. Flour them over, and fry iu lard, or very fresh drip])ing. Great attention must be paid to the freshness of all the in- gredients, and they must also be chopped as fine as possible. Sheep's kidneys also are often approved of, and, as they are easily procured, it is a good dish to order. They should be cut in two and seasoned very highly with pepper and salt. They will take about eight minutes to dress over a sharp fire on a gridiron. When done place them on a hot dish, and put a piece of butter in the centre of each kidney. If preferred, a piece of toast can be placed under them. Rashers of bacon, cut very thin, and rolled up neatly, can, with the broiled legs of fowls, turkeys, or game, vary, in a pleasing manner, the hot dishes you may require. Sheep's trotters. As we wish, as often as possible, to give some economical dish, we must leave the spiced beef and the savoury pie, and finish with a receipt for dressing sheep's trotters. Procure as many as you can, at least a dozen, and take out the long bone from each. Have ready, in a -stewpan, \ lb. of suet, some onions and sliced carrots, 2 table-spoonsful of flour, some pepper, salt, a little spice, and 2|- quarts of water. Put in the feet; stir tlie mixture round till it boils, and then simmer till the feet are quite tender; then pour it all into a pie dish, cover it with a layer of mashed pota- toes, and brown it in the oven. This will be found a very nourishing and a very economical dish, well worthy the attention of those who cannot afford a fresh joint daily. BREAKFAST POWDER. This is a cheap substitute for coffee, and is formed by roasting slices of the root of chicory, grains of rye, &c. The best we ever partook of was formed of equal parts of chicory-root and beech-nuts. See Coffee. BREAK-YOUR-SPEGTACLES. Thisquaint name was applied to the common corn-tlower, or blue-bottle (C'e/(toii)r« cyanus), for the water dis- tilled from its flowers was esteemed an applica- tion so efficacious for weak eyes that the plant received this popular title. Tlie juice expressed from the flowers is certainly cooling and astrin- gent, and affords a beautiful blue colour said to be much used by miniature painters. BREAM : To Dkess. After young bream is scalded and drawn, notch the side of it; dip in melted butter. Make a brown sauce with anchovies, capers, cives, and parsley, tossed up in a saucepan with a little butter; then \i\it in a little fish-broth, and tliicken it with a cullis that is to be poured on the fish, but do not put the anchovies in till you are going to serve. When it is broiled enough serve it up with the aforesaid sauce. It may also be served with a white sauce. BREAM : To Stew. Scald and well wash the bream, preserve the blood to stew it in; put to it 2 glasses or more of claret, a little ginger, the pulp of ^ lb. of prunes boiled and strained into the stew; salt, vinegar, 2 anchovies, some roots of horseradish stamped and strained, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Let there be no more liquor than will just cover the fish and other ingredients. When it is stewed enough make a sauce with butter and a little of the bream liquor; beat them up together; then dish your fish, and pour the sauce upon it. Garnish with lemon and barberries, and serve it up. BREAST, DISEASES OF. Breast Pang {Angina pectoris). The most judicious notes we have met with upon this disease are the following by Dr. IMacaulay, in his " Dictionary of Medicine :"—This is an acute pain at the lower end of the breast-bone, inclining towards the leftside, accompanied with great uneasiness. The leading symptoms of the disease are violent palpitations of the heart, difficulty of breathing, and a sensation as of suffocation. It is found to attack chiefly those who are of the make which has been supposed most liable to apoplexy, viz., those with large heads and short necks, and who lead a sedentary and inactive life. In tbe first stage of the disorder the pain is felt chiefly after some exertion, as going up stairs, or up a hill, or walking quickly, particularly when the stomach is full ; butm nioie advanced stages very slight exertions axe sufficient toBRE See t 163 j cause a paroxysm of pain, as walking, riding, coughing, sneezing, or speaking; passions of the mind also have the same tendency. In the first stage the uneasy and threatening symptoms go off soon, but afterwards they are longer and more distressing, and give the patient the fear of immediate dissolution. During the fit the pulse is feeble and irregular, the face pale and covered with a cold sweat, and the patient appears as if in a fit of apoplexy, without the power of sense or motion. The disease makes occasional attacks for years, and at last suddenly puts a period to the patient's life. The disease is believed to be chiefly owing to a diseased state of the vessels which nourish the heart, by which its powers are weakened, and it is rendered unable to empty itself properly; so that upon any exertion of body or mind, by which the blood is sent back to the heart more quickly than usual, that organ is unable to send it through the lungs, and hence the distressful symptoms above noted. The cure and preven- tion consists in diminishing the quantity of blood (to be moved by small bleedings), and by avoiding everything that would quicken the circulation. In the fit stimuli must be very cautiously em- ployed, the head and temples bathed with cold water and vinegar, a slight bleeding should be used to relieve the overloaded heart, gentle pressure employed on the left side to empty the heart, and on the appearance of returning re- spiration ammonia is to be applied to the nose. The use of wine or spirits seems rather a hazardous practice. The disease has been miti- gated by forming issues in some part of the body ; also by blisters or tartar emetic ointment applied to the chest. Prevention. The patient should carefully shun all mental irritation, and every gust of passion that would hurry the circulation. Moderate exercise should be daily taken in the open air, but no violent exertion should be ventured on ; and all attempts at going up a rising ground should be avoided or made with the utmost care. The food should be plain and easily digestible, such as is not liable to occasion flatulence. Fermented liquors are improper. On any ap- proach to fulness of blood animal food should be withdrawn from the diet, and mild saline purgatives frequently taken. A perpetual blister or other irritation in the region of the heart is useful, and warm bathing to the feet and legs may help still further to prevent the undue flow to the other parts of the body. BREAST, INB'LAMMATION OF. When an inflammation happens in the breast, attended with redness, hardness, and other symptoms of suppuration, the safest application is a poultice of bread and milk softened with oil or fresh butter. This may be renewed twice a day till the tumour be either discussed or brought to suppuration. The use of repellents in this case is very dangerous; they often occasion fevers and sometimes cancers; whereas a sup- puration is seldom attended with any danger, and has often the most salutary effects. Fretted or chapped nipples. When the nipples are fretted or chapped, they may be anointed with a mixture of oil and beeswax, or a little powdered gum arable may be sprinkled on them. Should the complaint prove obstinate, a cooling aperient may be given, which generally removes it. The nipple should be well-dried and powdered over with fullers' earth after suckling. BREATH, OFFENSIVE. If it originate from hollow teeth care should be taken that no fragments of provisions, and especially cheese, remain in them after eating. Hence the mouth ought to be washed or properly rinsed after every meal with tepid water, or lukewarm camo- mile tea. A similar precaution is necessary when the teeth are carious, or the gums in a, flaccid and spongy state; but if the lungs or other organs of respiration be diseased due re- gard ought to be paid to the primary affection, of which we shall treat under the head of Pulmo- nary Consumption. In this case, as well as in some peculiar habits, where the real case of fetid gums cannot be easily ascertained, the skill of the practitioner is frequently baffled ; yet we shall venture to suggest a remedy which has, in a great variety of instances, been attended with the desired effect. Many persons afflicted with that disagreeable complaint are also subject to habitual costiveness, which cannot in general be relieved without administering laxatives. These, by relaxing the bowels, ultimately tend to injure the constitution. On the other hand, we have observed from experience that finely-powdered charcoal, newly prepared and kept in close vessels, has a remarkable tendency to open the bowels, without inducing an extraordinary de- gree of weakness, especially if it be mixed with the syrup of yellow roses. For this purpose a table-spoonful of each, diluted with a little water, should be taken two or three times every day, according to circumstances. Thus, if the patient abstain for some time from the use of animal food, the most distressing costiveness may be gradually relieved with perfect safety to the constitution ; while the carbon acts on the whole system as the most effectual antiseptic with which we are acquainted. To increase the effect of this mild medicine a tea-spoonful of squill vine- gar may occasionally be added to each dose, to- gether with a little cinnamon or other aromatic water. The best palliatives for sweetening an offensive breath are gargles consisting simply of lime-water, or a decoction of the Peruvian bark, or a liquor made by mixing 2 ozs. of compouudBRE [ 164 ] BRB alum-water, anci ^ oz. of essence of lemons, with 3| ozs. of fennel-water, which should be frequently used previous to going into company. Sweetener for the breath, and jn-eservative for the teeth and gums. Take equal parts of the tincture of myrrh, tincture of bark, and cin- namon-water, to which arquebusade-water may be added. The mouth and teeth may be rinsed and gargled with this preparation ; a tea-spoon- ful or two in- the morning will correct any of- fensive disposition of the breath, either of long standing, or that which is acquired from the habit of smoking, or drinking spirituous or fermented liquors. It is also an excellent tonic, and may be taken to the extent of a dessert- spoonful three or four times a dav. BREATH, SHORTNP^SS OF. Dissolve IQ grains of camphor in 1 oz. of sulphuric ether, and take 1 tea-spoonful during the paroxysm. This often gives immediate relief when a patient from difficulty in breathing is obliged to sit erect. BREWING. October and February are the best seasons of the year for brewing. The former supposes a duly abated heat, that is, a temperature of about 50° or 55° as the medium, and it secures the mellowing influence of the whole winter wherein the slow, progressive fer- mentation in the barrel is perfected without serious interruption. February is a moist month generally, and whenever rain approaches or falls, with the wind at south-west and rather lively (the frequent concomitant of the month), fermentation is always moot energetic. Hence, though the winter be passed, February is pro- pitious, and speedily affects those processes which perfect the beer. The cold, dry, north-easterly winds of March supervene, and protract the final mellowing of the beer; whereas, if the bi'ewing be deferred till March, the weather, in ordinary cases, is inimical to the first great fermentation, and the secondary fermentation in the barrel is carried on too rapidly by the atmospheric influences of April and the sudden accessions of lieat. The result is a hard and acescent fluid, very remote in its qualities from the mild, bland ftle of October. The people of Staffordshire and the adjoining north-west counties, where, per- haps, some of the best beers in the kingdom are brewed, obsei've that March brewings were al- ways beerish, by which term they meant to express the hard flavour which ale of a great age acquires after having lost its sweetness. We presume that our readers are possessed of a copper capable of boiling 14 gallons; of 3 cooling vessels at the least, each of which will contain 7 gallons when the liquor in them shall not exceed 5 inches in depth; of another tub or cask large enough to receive the cooled wort ^aie and beer); and casks of 6 gallons each. We do not mention a larger size, tccause. if the brewings be small, they imply a limited consumption, and nothing injures beer so much as long exposure to frequent admission of air; four or five 6-gallon casks ought to be had when 12 gallons of mild ale and 6 gallons of table- beer are intended to be brewed, and these quantities we will select as the basis of our directions. Malt, to be good, ought to be crisp, tender, and full of flour throughout; if with these pro- perties the grain be plump and sweet to the taste from point to point it is excellent. Hops are a staple product of Kent, Surrey, and Worcestershire. For porter brewing the intense bitter of Kent is, it appears, peculiarly suitable. Surrey and Farnham hops are of a bright, clear, greenish yellow, and full of fra- grance ; they are excellent; but the Worcester hops are the best for the domestic brev. er. Mild and full of exquisite flavour, they suit the deli- cate quality of table-ale ; and the specimens of that brewed in Worcestershire, Shropshire, and Staffordshire, prove the assertion to be correct. Hops ought to abound in condition; that is, in a yellow powder about the seeds which yields a sticky feeling or clamminess to the hands when the hops are rubbed smartly. The malt being chosen the brewer should decide upon the quality of the ale he intends to make, also of that of the table-beer. It should always be remembered that beer, however weak, is superior in quality if it contain all the pro- perties of malt, and be, therefore, brewed ex- pressly. It is, however, a point of economy to prepare a small quantity of beer from the grains after the ale-wort has run off; but the weak wort so obtained cannot be supposed to be as good as if the same quantity were made from a given measure of malt, none of the strength and fine flavour of which had been extracted by a previous mashing for ale. Another consideration of mo- ment is this, that if 1 bushel yield to a certain quantity of water a wort of any required strength, 5 or 6 bushels will yield to a corresponding quantity of water a wort of greater compai'ative strength, because the greater the bulk of the materials employed, the more certain and pro- fitable will be the results, in consequence of the equability and steadiness of the heat employed. These facts being admitted, we shall proceed to arrange the processes of brewing under the fol- lowing heads, assuming that the quantities be brought down to those mentioned above, viz., 12 gallons of ale and 6 gallons of table-beer. 1. The malt is to be ground either by a cutting or crushing-mill; that in the Stafford- shire process was bruised by falling between two steel rollers, so set that each grain was flattened and cracked so as somewhat to resemble the[ 105 ] BRE BRE famed Emden groats. If malt be rendered very fine and dusty, the wort is liberated with some difficulty. Each grain, however, must be cut or crushed, otherwise it will not be acted upon by the water. 2. The quantity of the malt we calculate at 1^ bushel; that of the hops at If lb. The brewing will be strong, aud, therefore, is in- tended to keep six months before it is tapped ; hence it should be well flavoured with hop—and no more of that article will be required for the beer as we shall show—If lb. sufficing for both ale and beer. If it be objected that we place our standard too high, and state quantities which will prepare an ale of intoxicating strength, we answer, that we profess to brew a perfect liquor—one that will work well, fine itself to wine brightness, keep any reasonable time in a good cellar, and never turn off hard. If ale be brewed of a strength short of that which secures these important points, a loss of full one-third may be calculated on in an average of three years; whereas a good ale is safe, always valu- able, and may be reduced to any desired standard of strength by adding table-beer to it at the time it is drank. He who possesses no self- control ought not to brew. It is very bad economy to prepare a weak liquor that will become sour, acrid, and insalubrious in two or three months. We have seen barrel after barrel thrown away by those who have brewed parsi- moniously. Moreover, we shall add a receipt to make table-beer by itself, and therefore any one may adopt his quantities to his particular views. 3. Mashing. The word implies the extrac- tion of all the soluble parts of malt by hot water. It is usually performed in a deep and wide tub, with a hole at one side an inch or two above the bottom, into which a large cock is fitted ; the internal orifice is guarded either by a wad of straw, twigs, or a mash basket, to prevent the passing of the grains; but all these are very inadequate substances for the false bottom which is now used. This is made of wood pierced full of small holes, and dropped into the tub from the bottom, which is distant about an inch and a half, being supported by a hoop, or by small cross pieces of wood. This loose bottom should be kept firmly in its place by another hoop nailed above it. It serves to filtrate the wort, which passes, thus strained, through a plug-hole or tap placed between the two bottoms. A still greater improvement comprises the false bottom, and to that a wooden pipe is adapted, down which the hot water is poured, and thus rises upwards through the malt. If the plain mash-tub, or that with a simple false bottom be used, the ground malt must be kept ready by its side, and the copper (which for our quantities should con- tain 18 gallons) ought to be filled v/ith water and brought to a boil. Any sweet water will do; but the experience of many years proves that the soft fluid of a pond with a rill flowing through it is the best. Pour about 6 gallons of the boiling water into the tub, then add malt, while an assistant stirs constantly till the whole be a thick mass ; then add a pail of boiling water, then more malt, and so on alternately till only 1 peck of dry malt remains. The water ought to bo about 13 gallons. Upon this mash sprinkle the re- maining quantity of dry malt all over its sur- face, then cover the tub with flannel cloth or sacks, and let it stand two hours. If the false bottom with the improved spout be employed, let the malt (except the reserved peck) be put dry into the vessel; then pour 12 or 14 gallons of water, at 175°, down the spout, and suffer it to rise gradually into the body of the malt; stir the upper part till it becomes completely wet, and lay on the dry malt, and cover with a cloth as before directed. While this process proceeds fill, and bring the copper to a boil again, and, about a quarter before the lapse of two hours, draw off a little of the wort into a bowl; return this, and repeat the drawing till no grains follow, and the wort be clear; then draw the wort from the mash-tub, at first slowly, and afterwards in a bolder stream, as it is of conse- quence that it should be clear. Malt absorbs and retains a1)0ut 3 gallons of water to every bushel; therefore, the wort ob- tained will be from 7 to 9 gallons. When the whole is nearly drained off close the tap, and pour on so much boiling water as will make up 18 gallons with the wort already obtained. Let this second mash I'emain one hour, and partially fill and again heat the copper, unless 9 gallons of water remain in it. Itwill be always advantageous to have two furnaces; one for the wort, and the other for the water. Where there are two the first wort ought to be put into it with a due propor- tion of the hops, and brought to a boil, as by this means much time will be saved. The hops should be rubbed up between the hands and placed in a small cooler, where it will be advisable to digest them during the period of the first mash in as much boiling water as will cover them; by so doing the quan- tity of water they absorb will be spared to the sweetwort, and no less of heat will be occasioned. Most persons do not mash the hops. Mashing for table-beer. If there be two cop- pers the boiling will proceed while the grains undergo a third mashing, which will consist of 9 gallons of water at about 150", added after the second wort of the ale has been drawn off. This mash may stand for one hour, when it will yield rather more than the water put on, aud the[ 166 ] BRE grains will now be found exhausted. To give a little colour and strength to the beer 1 lb. of good treacle may be put to the wort, and it may then remain in its cooler till the boiling of the ale be concluded. Where there are two coppers the beer may be finished off nearly as soon as the ale. Boiling. If there be a surplus boiler the first strong wort should be put into it with half the hops, mashed or unmashed; add 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of common salt, and bring the wort slowly to the boiling point, so that, if possible, the second wort, which in quantity ought to be equal to that of the water put in the tub, may be drawn off, and be in the copper with the first, in order that the whole may boil together. Great caution will be required to keep down the head of hops, which, with the froth, rises suddenly if the fire be brisk. A person should stand by the copper with a mash-oar or a broad stick to break down the rising head, and let the hot liquor throw its first waves over, for waves they are ; the head will then be carried under, and put into brisk action. Thus a loss may be prevented, and the hops will be dispersed through- out every part of the boiling fluid. Rapid and brisk boiling is beneficial, and this ought to be continued for an hour at least; within that time a substance, termed vegetable albumen, which was mixed with the wort and rendered it turbid, will be coagulated by the heat and partly, per- haps, by an astringent principle in the hops, and float in small masses through the then clear wort. A bowlful of the liquor taken up now and then will exhibit the brealdng; and the boiling should be continued for half an hour after it has been effected. It may be right to mention that some writers recommend that the wort be boiled one hour previous to the addition of any hops, and half an hour longer with them. This, they say, tends to secure the full effect of the boiling process, but does not permit the loss of so great a portion of the fine aroma of the hops. We have not seen the plan in practice, but mean to try it immediately. The beer may boil one hour with one-half of the hops of the ale, which may readily be obtained by straining off some of the boiling wort through a sieve placed over the copper. This implies that there are two boilers, and that it is an object to save time; if there be but one the beer must be kept aside till the ale be removed. The hops of the ale are amply sufiicient for the beer; if half be added, ^ above recommended, the beer may be boiled for an hour with that quantity, and strained through the other half, by which means it will carry through all the strong wort that the hops retained. Straining. This is best effected through hair sieves, though wicker ones do very well. Pass the ale-wort through coolers, so that each may not contain more than one-third of the ale-wort, for now the great heat should be brown as quickly as possible. Let the coolers be placed in the air where a current may pass over them if the weather be rainy. If the processes of mash- ing and boiling have been carefully conducted there will be about 18 gallons of raw wort, which, by rapid boiling, straining, and wort retained in the hops, will be reduced to a little more than 14 gallons. The beer by boiling will be brought to 8 gallons; but then it will lose nothing in the sieve, as it wiU carry down all the absorbed ale-wort, and the hops may be pressed forcibly, which they should not be in the first instance after the ale. Fermentation. The commencement of this all-important process is commonly and, we think, ignorantly called pitching. We have said that the temperature most propitious to the work is in October, or when it may be about 50° or 5-5''. The first cooler of wort ought to be ready by six or seven o'clock in the evening, cooled to 80°. It is an error to suppose that a good quantity of really fine yeast or barm injures beer; the least hint of it, if foul, will spoil many gallons; but one pint of the thickest barm that can be obtained will be of service to the quantity now under notice. Let, then, 1 pint be thoroughly mixed and beaten up with 2 gallons of wort at 80°; carry this to the cellar, and then place the coolers, side by side, near the vessel con- taining the working wort. This we recommend to be an 18-gallon upright cask without its head; it is narrow at the bottom, and thus allows the wort to be deep in it, and to retain its heat; cover the cask with a piece of flannel, and place its loose head upon that. Thus there will be a cask with 2 gallons of wort and 1 pint of barm in it, one cooler with 3 gallons, and two others with nearly 5 gallons of wort in each. If the cellar be well constructed it will maintain a pretty equable temperature, and be at about .55°. By ten at night the working in the tub will be fully established, and then, 3 gallons of wort at 70° or 75° should be put into 5 gallons of about 68°, heating a quart or more of a raw wort, and pouring it in the cooler till the liquor in it be raised to the required degree. Stir the working liquor, and leave it for six hours; then try the working heat again, and if it be above or at 75°, add 3 gallons at 65°; again cover it, and in four hours add the remaining cool wort, reserving about 2 quarts for a peculiar purpose. We have thus detailed the gradual additions of worts at given heats as we noticed them on a large scale; and we may add that we have prac- tised the method we recommend with most gratifying success. It varies from and is counter to the ordinary mode of setting an entire batchBRE [ 167 ] BRI to worlt at once, a process which in small brewings frequently fails. Ours always succeeds, simply because the yeast has power over each addition ; the working heat will be formed at 70° or 78°; in that case we advise the immediate turning of the ale. We presume that the two 6-gallon . casks are quite clean, sweet, and dry. Place them on their stands, and put into each one- half of the reserved wort; mix with 2 table- spoonsful of flour and 1 spoonful of salt; take off some of the frothy yeast, and pour the liquor into the barrels till the froth begins to flow over; then desist for a time, and when the froth has somewhat subsided add more liquor. Thus by degrees the barrels may be filled to the bung- holes, and, being placed a little on one side, the yeast will flow down, and may be caught by vessels placed under the stands. In three or four days the working will subside, the yeast become thick, and cease to flow over; then a little of the ale, reserved in a stone bottle or jug, may be poured into the barrels, and in a few days the bung-holes may be covered with brown paper, well coated with thick yeast. The fermentation will now proceed slowly, and in the course of a fortniglit each barrel may be safely bunged down, and the bungs secured with a mass of moistened binding sand. We have known ale of the above strength to be clear in three months, perfectly bright in six months, and rich and mellow, so as to admit of no comparison with any ordinary beer, whether purchased or brewed at home. See Ale, Beer, and PoiiTRR. BRE WIS. Put a thick upper crust of bread into the pot where salt beef is boiling, just be- fore it is ready. When swollen and thoroughly soaked with the liquor it is very palatable. BRIDECAKE. Take 4 lbs. of fine flour well dried, 4 lbs. of fresh butter, 5i lbs. of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted fine, i oz. of mace, and the same quantity of nutmeg; to every pound of flour put 8 eggs ; wash and pick 4 lbs. of currants, and dry them before the fire; blanch 1 lb. of sweet almonds, and cut them very thin, lengthways, 1 lb. of citron, 1 lb. of candied orange, 1 lb. of candied lemon, and ^ pint of brandy. First work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your sugar a quarter of an hour; beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong froth; mix them with your sugar and butter; beat the yolks half an hour at least, and mix them with your cake; then put in your flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keep beating till the oven is ready; put in your brandy, and beat the currants and almonds in; tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of your hoops to keep the cake from running out; rub the paper well V'ilh butter; put in your cake, and the sweet- meats in three layers, with cake between every layer. After it has risen and coloured, corer it with paper before your oven is stopped up. It will take three hours baking. BRILL is dressed in the same way as turbot. See TuRBOT. BRIMSTONE, or Sdlphur, is found in most parts of the world. It occurs in a pure state near volcanoes ; there are mines of it in Thibet, and in England it is obtained from martial pyrites (sulphuret of iron) and our copper ores. Sulphur is of great utilitj' in the arts. When converted into an acid by combustion in the open air it aff'ords that extensively useful liquid vulgarly termed oil of vitriol; considerable quan- tities of which are consumed in the various pro- cesses of bleaching, dissolving metals, especially iron, and in other useful arts. It is also of great service in cementing iron railing to stones, by simply melting and pouring it into the in- terstices. Brimstone is farther advantageously employed for whitening silk, wool, or other articles, by exposing them to its fumes during combustion ; and it is a chief ingredient in the making of gunpowder. In medicine, sulphur is almost a specific in cutaneous diseases, whether administered internally with honey or molasses, or applied externally in the form of ointment. In the piles it is of evident benefit when taken in small doses ; and it is occasionally prescribed in chronic catarrhs and coughs, as it operates gently by promoting insensible perspiration through every pore of the skin. BRINE. Pickle made according to the com mon rule—that it should bear an egg—may be sufficiently strong to preserve substances in- tended for early use. A true pickle, however, for preserving meat, fish, and butter during a long voyage, ought to be boiled down till the salt begins to crystallise, which is discoverable by a thin scum on the sui-face of the liquid while it continues over the fire. The water being then completely saturated with salt, the pickle is perfect. See, also, Pickling and Salt. BRIOCHE. Divide half a quartern of flour into three parts, and knead into one of them i oz. of yeast and a little warm water; wrap it in cloth, and set it by, in summer time for a quarter of an hour, and in the winter for a whole hour. When it has risen put it to the remainder of tlie flour, with 1^ lb. of butter, 10 eggs, half a glass &f water, and nearly 1 oz. of salt; knead them together with your hands thoroughly, and then wrap it in a clean cloth, and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut this paste into the. size. )'.ou wish to have your cakes, moisten and roll them in your hand, flatten ttie top, and gild them with the yolk of an egg. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake the small ones; large ones will require an Lour and a half.BRI [ 168 ] BRO B'RIOCHE FRITTERS. Cut some small brioche in halves, take out the middle, and put in some kind of sweetmeat or made-cream; put the two halves of each together so that they may appear whole; dip them in a paste made of flour, a little oil, salt, and white wine; fry them of a gold colour, and glaze them with sugar. Pass a salamander over. BRIOCHE STITCH. Bring the wool for- ward ; slip a stitch under; knit two together. Every row is alike. BRISKET. See Beef and Carving. BRISTOL CAKES. Mix up Jib. of flour with \ lb. each of pounded lump sugar and fresh butter, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. When well worked together in a bowl, add ^ lb. of currants ; then rub a tin plate over with butter, drop on it the mixture to form each cake, from a table-spoon, and set it in a brisk oven. BRISTOL HOT WELL. This celebrated spring is situated at the bottom of a lofty cliff, called St. Vincent's Rock, on the banks of the Avon, and about a mile distant from the city of Bristol. The air is genial and salubrious from its agreeable southern exposure, being sheltered by high ridges of dry limestone cliffs from the bleak north and east winds, and likewise from the boisterous west. It is, therefore, well cal- culated in every respect to renovate the health and spirits of the invalid, and, from its mild atmosphere, to be a winter residence. The hot-well water is extremely clear and sparkling, and separates numerous air bubbles when poured into a glass. It has no decided taste or smell, although rather agreeable than otherwise to the palate. Its average temperature is pretty steadily at 74° Fahr. during winter and summer. Its specific gravity is only l'000-77, which ap- proaches so nearly to that of distilled water, that this circumstance alone sufficiently proves its purity. Among the numerous chemical investigations of this water the analysis by Dr. Carrick is, per- haps, the most accurate. It gives the following contents in a wine gallon :—• Grains Chloride of magnesium . • • • . 7 y,5 Chloride of sodium . 4'00 Sulphate of soda 11'25 Sulphate of lime . , . ..... 11-75 Carbonate of lime ...*•... 13-50 47-75 Cubic Inches Carbonic acid ptas 30 Atmospheric air .■>>«... 3 33 This water is entirely an internal remedy. Its sensible effects, when warm and fresh from the spring, are generally a gentle sensation of warmth in the stomach, and sometimes a slight degree of headache and giddiness; but these symptoms are only transient, and may speedily be removed by a gentle aperient. It increases, in most cases, the flow of urine, and the perspir- able state of the skin; but it has a tendency to constipate the bowels, which effect should be obviated by the requisite remedy. Its operation is highly salutary in several dis- orders of the alimentary canal, in those dyspeptic symptoms with which Europeans who have long resided in hot climates are commonly afflicted, in chronic, bilious diarrhoeas, and mild dysen- teries. It has afforded relief in diabetes, by rendering the system more sensible to the im- pressions of the appropriate medicines; but the high reputation which it has acquired is above all in alleviating some of the most distressing symptoms of pulmonary consumption, as the harassing thirst, the dry, burning heat of tlie hands and feet, the partial night sweats, and all those symptoms which are peculiarly hectical. From the relief which it thus affords, even in the advanced periods of this formidable disease, it may materially contribute, in the early stages of it, to a re-establishment of health. The season for the hot well is from the middle of May to October, to combine the advantage of air and exercise. The following is the usual mode of taking the water:—Two glasses should be taken as early in the morning as the invalid's time of rising will permit, with half an hour spent in gentle exercise interposed between them; and this quantity should be repeated in the same manner midway between breakfast and dinner. The size of the glass should be from ^ pint to ^ pint, which last may be considered a full dose. At no time should it be taken in such a quantity as to cause any oppression or sense of weight in the stomach. As the effects of this water are extremely gradual, the duration of a course of it must necessarily be for a long time, to experience the full benefit arising from its use. Another spring, resembling the hot well, is at Clifton, called Sion Spring, equally noted for cures in similar diseases.—(Mackenzie.) BRITANNIA METAL is made of equal parts of tin, brass, antimony, and bismuth, forming an excellent alloy for making tea-pots and other utensils. The best mode of cleaning them is to wash them with warm soap and water, to wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and to polish them with a little dry whiting and a soft leather. BROCADE: To Clean. Nothing cleans brocaded articles, gold and silver lace, and similar things, so well, without after-injury to them, as spirit of wine. It should be applied with a softtable. [ 169 ] brush. Tf the tarnish is very tixed, a little BRO pare her fire for the operation in due time. opinions touching the proper thickness of a steak, BRO spirit of hartshorn may be employed ; but on no account use either soda or potash for the purpose. BROCCOLI: To Boil. Strip off all the side-shoots, leaving only the head and part of the stalk. When well washed put it into a pan of boiling water with some salt. Let it boil briskly till the stalk is tender, then take it up with a slice, to avoid breaking the head. Drain and serve it up. Broccoli boils best in a deep pan, as the heads then lie close to each other. It makes a good supper dish, with a taste like asparagus, but it must always be sent up hot to BROCCOLI: To Pickle. Choose such as are hard and ripe, and take off the leaves and stalks. Set a pan half full of water, with salt in the proportion of J lb. of the one to 1 quart of the other; put in the broccoli, and when it boils take it up and spread the vegetable upon a cloth to dry before the fire twentj-four hours. After this lay piece by piece in jars and cover them with the following pickle:—To 1 quart of vinegar add 1 oz. of black pepper, ^ oz. of powdered ginger, as much salt and horseradish sliced, with a few capsicums or a little Cayenne. Put these ingredients into a jar, stop it close, and let them steep three days by the fire. V/htjn cold pour the liquor over the broccoli. BROCCOLI SALAD. Boil it like asparagus, lay it in a dish, and beat it up with oil, vinegar, and salt. Garnish with nasturtiums. BRODUM'S NERVOUS CORDIAL is a tonic and stomachic mixture composed of equal quantities of tinctures of gentian, columba, car- damoms, and bark, compound spirit of lavender and wine of iron. A small wine-glass is a suf- ficient dose, and should not be often repeated, for it is inebriating. BROILING. The amateur of a broil, who would secure a chop or steak cooked to per- fection, is recommended to wend his way to the neighbourhood of London's Royal Exchange, where the art and mystery of that summary process of savoury cooking has long attained the ultimation of excellence. There the fire burns with never-ceasing brightness, the gridiron has not time to cool, and the impatient com- mercialist, to whom time is property, is never doomed to wait. Certain it is, that a chop or steak is not often eaten in perfection at the table of a private family, though there is no sufficient reason why this should be so ; for, as in boiling, the difficulties of the art vanish wliere attention is not wanting. The process is more simple than that of any other method of dress- ing meat; the operation is quick, and the ob- ject under the hand and eye of the cook, from the moment of its being put upon the gridiron to that of its completion. The cook must pre- When ready it should be clear and bright, so free from black coal or smoke that the chop or steak may comefi'om the gridiron without blem- ish, or taint of sulphur or smoke. The best fuel for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke, as little smoke is emitted from either even on commencing the fire, and when well ignited it is entirely free from it. Coke added to a brisk coal fire also burns brightly, and is well suited for the operation ; though with care a proper fire may be made of good sea-coal. Certain unqualified declairaers upon broil hold various though, at the most celebrated chop-houses, the cooks, unless expressly desired otherwise, con- fine the cut to somewhat more than half, yet less than the thickness of three quarters of an inch. This adjustment of the proportion of the stratum of the delicious rump is, moreover, according to the statute law of the thrice-learned conclave — the Beefsteak Club, amongst whose members, from the epoch of its original founder, George Lambert and his distinguished convives, to the present day, may be numbered the most ac- complished gormands of this renowned land of cheer. There is this, amongst other disadvan- tages, in cutting too thick a steak the outside is likely to be scorched to horny hardness before the interior is half cooked. Hence, to say nothing of the miser}' of those who have not the ad- vantage of capacious mouths, the disappointed epicure must either wait until it is put again upon the gridiron, or, instead of eating it rare, be constrained to eat it raw. No gridiron should be used but those with fluted bars, which, form- ing channels, the greater part of the fat, which otherwise falls into the fire and scorches the steak, is drawn off in a gutter to the bottom. The gridiron should be thoroughly heated and the bars rubbed with beef or mutton suet pre- viously to putting on tlie steak, to prevent its being marked by or adhering to the bars. A vigilant eye should be kept upon the steak to watch the moment for turning it, which is repeatedly done during the process. Broiling- tongs of convenient size should be used, with which, by a little practice, the steak may be turned with ease and despatch* The cook must have her dish thoroughly heated to receive the broil when done, and the cover hot to place upon it instantly. Even when she has accomplished her task, if the servant who is to take it to table loiters on the way, the steak will have lost its zest. A steak or chop, then, should be briskly cooked, speedily conveyed to the table, and served with despatch. It may be either a delectable treat to the accom[)lished amateur of good eating, or a dish scarcely endurable to tha voracious appetite of a famished hunter.BllO [ no ] BRONZING. Bronzing metals is effected as follows :—The terra is sometimes used to signify the production of a metallic appearance of anj' kind upon such objects. The objects are first covered with a coat of size or oil varnish, and when nearly diy, bronze powder, the powder of Dutch foil, gold leaf, mosaic gold, or precipi- tated copper, is applied with a dry brush or dusting-bag. A white metallic appearance is given to plaster figures by rubbing them over with an amalgam of equal parts of mercury, tin, and bisnmth, and then applying a coat of var- nish. The iron-coloured bronzing is effected by applying finely-pulverised black-lead or plum- bago. A bronze appearance is given to iron objects by plunging them into a solution of sul- phate of copper, and allowing them to remain there until covered with a thin coating of copper. Copper coins, medals, &c., may be bronzed in the following manner:—Dissolve 2 parts of ver- digris and 1 part of sal ammoniac in vinegar; boil the solution, strain it, and dilute with water until it has only a weak metallic taste, and on further dilution it lets fall no white precipitate. The solution is to be boiled, and then poured upon the objects to be bronzed, previously well cleaned and placed in a copper vessel. This vessel is to be put on the fire, and the solution kept boiling until the objects have acquired the proper colour. The Chinese are said to bronze their copper vessels by applying a mixture of 2 parts of verdigris, 3 of cinnabar, 5 of sal am- moniac, and 5 of alum, made into a paste with vinegar. This is repeatedly applied with heat until the wished-for colour is produced. Bronzinr) of gun-barrels, dc, is effected by applying certain solutions which produce a thin film of oxide over the surface. This effect may be produced by inclosing the barrels in a space filled with the va})our of muriatic acid, or by moistening their surface with diluted muriatic or nitric acid. Chloride of antimony, or butter of antimony, is frequently used, and answers better than the foregoing; it is mixed with an equal quantity of olive oil, and rubbed over the iron previously heated; it is then exposed to the air until the desired bronzing is effected, when it is carefully cleaned, and polished with wax, or covered with a varnish of shellac. The following solution is used for the same purpose : —Sulphate of copper (blue copperas), 1 oz.; sulphuric ether, 2 ozs_.; water, 4 ozs. Mix, and apply to the metal previously scoured bright.— [Grny). See Alabaster. ' BROOM BUDS : To Pickle. Gather the buds before thej'^ grow yellow on the top; mix palt and \vater until completely melted ; then put in the buds ; stir them every day till they 'sink to the bottom and keep them closely covered. BROOMS. For out-of-door work none are so good as the ling, or heather broom; hnt whether made of that or of birch twigs, they should always have a piece of stout string or wire fastened round them at about six inches from the end to keep the sprays moderately close together, and they should be soaked in water before using to render them pliant. The best brush for our carpeted floors is a long-handled one, with rounded ends, the hairs very stiff, and about as long as those in a clothes brush. This, at all events, will suffice for the purpose six days out of the seven ; so that only once a week, in- stead of every day, the use of the genuine carpet broom may be permitted. Two house brooms should always be provided, one for the sleep- ing apartments, which should be kept upstairs, and one for the kitchen; and these, indeed all brooms, should have round ends. We deprecate those which are usually seen with ends sharp and square, that seem to have been invented expressly to chip the paint from the skirting- boards. Whalebone is too frequently manu- factured into brooms, which are sold as hair. It is not easy for an inexperienced eye to de- tect the fraud. The chief differences between hair and whalebone are, that the former is elastic, while the latter, if bent, retains the bend; that hair is round and whole to the end ; whalebone, on the contrary, looks merely shred, and the points are split. A hearth broom, for a common sitting-room, should always be composed of black hair; for the obvious reason that, being fre- quently used, it so often would require to be washed if the hair were white. A hearth brush should always be provided for the kitchen; a servant then will have neither excuse nor pre- tence to make use of the long-handled broom to sweep the bars of the grate—a practice too fre- quently adopted, to the speedy destruction of the utensil. For lofty staircases a TurJcs head is used, in order to detach cobwebs from corners that are too high to be reached by means of the usual house bi'oom. This gigantic round-headed brush is at least twelve feet long in the handle, and is not a requisite in the generality of houses. Those with telescope handles are best, being more easily put away. When a back kitchen or scullery is paved with bricks, a birch or heath broom will be found quite as efficient and far less expensive than one made of hair. See Carpkts. BROSE. Brose is an article of diet which is made from oatmeal. The process consists in pouring boiling water upon oatmeal till of the consistence of hasty pudding, stirring them together, and flavouring with salt. The meal is, consequently, very imperfectly cooked ; and, however well it may agree with the stomach of a hardy north-countryman, we apprehend it will seldom be equally-suitable tp those of a mor«BRO BRO [ 171 1 delicate people. If, instead of boiling water, the fat skimmings of soup be poured upon the oatmeal, that vaunted Scotch dish,/ai brose, is the rich and indigestible result. We mention this as a caution to those who may be tempted at any time to try the dish. It requires extra- ordinary power to digest it without inconve- nience. See Beef Bkose. BROTH, a liquor in which the flesh of animals has been boiled, and which is rendered palatable by the addition of herbs, &c. If other ingredients be used, such as rice, pearl-barley, oatmeal, &c., it is then generally called soup. It is a common error to act as if broth is more easily digested than solid food. And though we are countenanced in this opaiion by the most enlightened physicians of the age, yet we fear that old customs and deep-rooted preju- dices will continue to prevail, while supported by so many old women besides those of the faculty. Perhaps nothing but experimental conviction of the contrary can produce a change of sentiments imbibed with the mother's milk. Mutton broth, veal broth, and chicken broth are such comfortable things when the appetite is disordered and the stomach fastidious, that they are generally administered in all states of fever, without any regard to the nature of the disease, or the constitution of the patient. In this preposterous manner the stomach is inundated and the bowels are drenched till all their tone and vigour are irrecoverably destroyed. Indeed, from the slight degree of attention paid to the subject of diet, an accurate observer may be led to conclude that the stomach is destined for a certain time to serve the purpose of a laboratory, where the effect of medicines is to be ascertained before the vessel to be used in this chemical process has acquired sufficient vigour to with- stand the attack. Yet such is the infatuation of the multitude that they would rather en- courage the prosperous commerce in emetics and purgatives than listen to suggestions which tend to confute spurious notions, and, by cor- recting their former errors, would eventually deprive them of many favourite cups and dishes. Thus we are not vain enough to flatter ourselves with producing such a change on the prevailing manner of living as to banish either teas or broths to their proper places—the apothecaries' shops—and to substitute in their room more wholesome articles of nutriment; though we are firmly persuaded, from reason and daily experience, that the physical order of things has also been perverted in the present age, and tliat the swallowing of drugs is not a primary but a secondary object in the cure of diseases. BROTH: To Clarify. Put on the broth in a clean stewpan ; break the white and shell of an egg, beat them together, put them into the broth, and stir it with a whisk. When it has boiled a few minutes strain it through a tammy or a napkin. BROTH, FAT. Boil part of a round of a leg of beef with other meat; take out the gravy and broth, strain it through a napkin, boil them a second time, and take out the broth again, keeping both these sorts apart. The first will be good to put to capons, turkey poults, veal, and other forcemeats, to be served in white soups. Capon or veal broth ought to be used to soak young pigeons for bisque, and with the broth of the bisques a cullis may be made for soup d la reine or d la royale. The broth of the forcemeats will serve to make a cullis for the same sorts of meat; as young turkeys and pullets, knuckles of veal, and other sorts of meat that ought lo be forced and parboiled. The second sort of broth is to be put into brown soups, or ducks, teal, rabbits, wood pigeons, pheasants, &c., or of vegetables, roots, &c., and the brown ingredients will serve to thicken them, and are to be mixed with the same broth. BROTH, FISH. Take tench, carp, pike, and eels; prepare them for boiling, cut them in pieces, and put them into a kettle of water, with salt, butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, Let it boil an hour and a half; then strain it through a napkin and divide it into three lesser kettles. Into one of them put mushrooms, and strain them through a sieve, with a cullis, a sliced lemon, and some fried wheaten flour. BROTH OF FRAGMENTS. When you dress a large dinner you may make good broth, or portable soup, at very small cost, by taking care of all the trimmings and parings of the meat, game, and poultry you are going to use. "Wash them well and put them into a stewpnn with as much cold water as will cover them ; set your stewpan on a quick fire ; when it boils take off all the scum, and set it on again to simmer gently ; put in 2 carrots, 2 turnips, a large onion, 3 blades of pounded mace, and a head of celery; some mushroom parings will be a great addition. Let it contitme to simmer gently four or five hours; strain it through a sieve into a clean basin. This will save a great deal of expense in buying gravy-meat. BROTH, MEAGRE. Set on a kettle of water, put in 2 or 3 crusts of bread, and all sorts of good herbs; season with salt; put in butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it an hour and a half; then strain it through a sieve or napkin. This will serve to make lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soupe de saiUe, &c., with herbs. BROTH OF ROOTS. Take a quart of peas, boil them till tender; bruise them to ^[ ] BRU BRO mash., put til em into a boiling vessel that will hold 4 gallons of water; hang it over the fire for an hour and a half; then take it off and let it settle; then take a lesser kettle, and strain the clear puree into it through a sieve. Put into it a bunch of carrots, half a bunch of pars- nips, a bunch of parsley roots, 6 onions, a bunch of pot herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and season it with salt. Boil all these together; then add a bunch of chervil, another of sorrel, and 2 spoonsful of the juice of onions. This broth is of use to simmer all sorts of soups made of vegetables. BROTH FOR THE SICK. Have Hlb. of a neck or loin of mutton ; take off the skin and the fat, and put it into a saucepan; cover it with cold'water (it will take about 1 quart to 1 lb. of meat), let it simmer very gently, and skim it well. Cover it up, and set it over a moderate fire, where it may stand gently stew- ing for about an hour, then strain it off. It should be allowed to become cold, when all the greasy particles will float on the surface, and, becoming hard, can be easily taken off, and the settlings will remain at the bottom. BROTH, WHITE. Boil a fowl, and when it is done enough take it up, and put it into a dish; then boil your cream with a blade of mace, and thicken it with eggs; put in the marrow of one beef bone, and take some of the broth and mingle them together; put to it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thicken on the fire. Take the hot fowl out of the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, and serve it. BROWN. See Dyeing. BROWN COLOURING (forMabe-dishes). Take 4 ozs. of sugar and beat it fine ; put it into an iron frying-pan or earthen pipkin; set it over a clear fire, and when the sugar is melted it will be frothy; put it higher from the fire until it is a fine brown ; keep it stirring all the time ; fill the pan up with red wine ; take cai'e that it does not boil over; add a little salt and lemon; put a little cloves and mace, a shallot or two ; boil it gently for ten minutes ; pour it in a basin till it is cold, then bottle it for use. BROWN ROUX (for Thickening). Put into a nicely-tinned saucepan about 1 lb. of fresh butter; melt it slowly and dredge in flour till it becomes a paste, carefully stirring it all the time. Put it for a few minutes upon a quick fire, and then return it to where there is less heat, and stir it till it assumes a light brown colour, when it may be put into a jar These thickenings keep for some time. BROWNING. It is a convenient article to colour those soups or sauces of which it is sup- posed their deep brown complexion denotes the strength and savouriness of the composition. Burnt sugar is also a favourite ingredient witli the brewers, who use it under the name of essentia Lena to colour their beer; it is also employed by the brandy-makers in considerable quantity to colour brandy; to which, besides enriching its complexion, it gives that essential taste and fulness in the mouth which custom has taught brandy-drinkers to admire and prefer to the finest Cognac in its genuine state. When em- ployed for culinary purposes this is sometimes made with strong gravy or walnut catsup. Those who like a gout of acid may add a little walnut pickle. Put 1 lb. of pounded lump sugar and 1 table-spoonful of water into a clean iron saucepan ; set it over a slow fire, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a bright brown colour, and begins to smoke; then add to it 1 oz. of salt, and dilute it by degrees with water till it is the thickness of soy; let it boil; take off the scum, and strain the liquor into bottles, which must be well stopped. If you have not any of this by you, and you wish to darken the colour of your sauces, pound a tea-spoonful of lump sugar, and put it into an iron spoon with as much water as will dissolve it; hold it over a quick fire till it be- comes of a very dark brown colour. Mix it with the soup, &c., while it is hot. BRUNSWICK BLACK is a black varnish used for giving a powerful polish to grates and other iron articles. It is formed by melting together -1- lb. of common asphaltum, 1 pint of linseed oil, and ^ pint of spirit of turpentine. Apply it hot with a brush. BRUNSWICK MUM. Take 83 gallons of clear water that has been previously boiled to the reduction of the third part; then brew it with 7 bushels of wheaten malt, and 1 bushel each of oatmeal and ground beans. When tunned the hogshead must not be full, and on it begin- ning to work put in 3 lbs. of fir and birch tops, three handsful of carduum benedictus, a hand- ful or two of rose leaves, and a handful and a half each of burnet, betony, avens, marjoram, pennyro)-al, and mother-of-thyme, two or moie liandsful of elder flowers, 3 ozs. of bruised car- damoms, and I oz. of bruised barberries. The herbs and seeds are not to be put into the cask till the liquor has worked for some time, after which it should be suffered to flow over as little as possible. Lastly, fill it up on its ceasing to ferment, and when done put in 10 new-laid eggs, unbroken or cracked, stop it up close, and at the end of two years it will be fit for use. To make mum like ale, barley malt is substi- tuted for wheat. BRUNSWICK TART (1). Pare and core with a scoop 8 or 10 golden pippins ; put them into a stewpan with 1 gill of sweet wine and 4 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, a little cinnamon and mace. Stew them over aBUG BEU [ 173 ] slow fire till the apples are tender. When cold put them into a very light paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUNSWICK TART (2). Make a crust as for a VoLAN Vbnt ; pare and core with a scoop 8 or 10 golden pippins; put them into a stew- pan, with 1 gill of sweet wine and 4 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, a small stick of cinnamon, and a blade of mace. Stew them over a slow fire till the apples are tender; set them by. When cold place them in the paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUISES, or Contusions. If violent on the head, knee, or hip, a surgeon had better be consulted, but if slight the only application needed is a rag kept moistened with a warm mixture of 2 parts of water to 1 part of vinegar. BRUSHES required for household purposes are of various kinds, viz., clothes, shoe, nail, tooth, crumb, bottle, scrubbing, loaded rubbing for floors, black-lead, furniture, dusting, filter- ing-stone, and water-closet brushes. The wooden part of brushes is generally of oak or elm, which is cut to the proper size by a large knife, fastened down to a block, with a staple at one end, in such a manner that it is moveable up and down ; at the other end is a handle. The wood to be cut is held in the left hand, while the knife is worked with the right. The knife is always kept very sharp, and by its make and mode of using the hardest wood is readily reduced to any shape and size. This wood, when formed, is drilled with as many holes as necessary, and into these holes the hair is put. The hair made use of by brush-makers is hogs' bristles, vast quantities of which are yearly imported from Russia and Ger- many ; but whalebone, split very fine so as to resemble bristles, is very generally substituted, particularly in the black-coloured br jshes, where it is often mixed with the black hair. Some brushes are made of whalebone entirely; these are cheaper, but not so durable. In choosing brushes observe that the hair is fast bound, and that it lies close together. If it is not close bound and the hair ajtpears to fly out it will never work well; and, besides, it will come out and disfigure the work, as may sometimes be seen on paint. Brushes in which the hair is fastened with silver wire are superior to those fastened with copper or iron wire, especially when they are to be used in water. Brushes for the hat-maker, as well as some other trades, are fastened with cord and wooden pegs in- stead of wire and the usual cements, as they require to be frequently dipped in a boiling, though weak solution of sulphuric acid, mixed with water. There are brushes of various sorts, sizes, and shapes, but the structure of them all is the same or nearly so. When the bristles are sorted, combed, and picked, a certain portion is taken and tied in the middle with string, fine copper or iron wire, and then doubled. In this double state they are fastened into the wooden stock, with hot cement made of melted glue, pitch, or rosin. The ends of the hair are next cut off", and the surface made smooth and uni- form. Common hearth brushes and hair brooms are made in a slighter way. As soon as the stock is brought to the proper shape it is drilled, and the bristles inserted in the manner above described. In some brushes the wires are visi- ble on the back ; in others the backs are smooth, there being thin slices of wood glued over the w.'res. The scrubbing-brush used to dry-rub oaken floors is generally loaded with lead at the back. BRUSHING. Seo Apparel. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. Sprinkle some slices of cold, boiled, salted beef with pepper; fry them with a bit of butter to a light brown colour. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry, and chop it snmll; take the beef out of the frying- pan, and lay the cabbage in it; sprinkle a little pepper anc^ «alt over; keep the pan moving over the fire for t few minutes. Lay the cabbage in the middle o the dish, and the beef round it. BUCKBE.vN, or Marsh Trefoil (Me»y- nnthes trifoliata). This is common in marshy soils, by the sides of rivers, and similar wet situations. The leaves are vei'y bitter and are said to be used by fraudulent brewei's, 1 oz. giving out as much bitterness to the wort as ^ lb. of hops. It is said to be effectual in curing sheep of the rot if they be compelled to eat it. A strong infusion of the leaves pro- motes perspiration violently, and has been given with benefit to the extent of a pint a day in cases of rheumatism and dropsy. It is also said to be very beneficial in scorbutic com- plaints, and removing inveterate eruptions. A drachm of the leaves dried and powdered causes vomiting and purging. BUCKTHORN [Rhamnus catharticvs). This tree or bush is common in hedges ; it flowers in May and June, and ripens its fruit in September or the beginning of October. The berries when recent are about the size of a pea, green before they are ripe and black when ripe, nearly round, a little flattened on the summit, smooth, shining; parenchyme juicy, green, becoming of a deep violet red, and surrounding four seeds, oval, obtuse, trigonal, brown, smooth, and curvated. Their smell is unpleasant and their taste nau- seous and bitterish. In the market the fruit of some other trees, as the blackberry-bearing alder {Eliamnus fravgula) and the dogberrj' tree, have been frequently mixed with or substituted for those of buckthorn. This abuse may be dis- covered by opening the berries; those of buck- thorn have almost always four seeds, of the alderBUG BUG [ 174 ] two, and of the clogteny only one. Buckthorn lerries bruised on white paper stain it of a green colour, which the others do not. The juice when first expressed is green, hut soon becomes red, in consequence of the formation of acetic acid by fermentation. Those who sell the juice to the apothecaries are said to mix it with a large proportion of water. Sap green is pre- pared by reducing it to an extract with the addition of an alkali. Buckthorn berries have a faint disagreeable smell and a nauseous bitter taste. They were long in considerable esteem as cathartics, and celebrated in dropsies, rheumatism, and even in the gout. They generally occasion gripes and sickness, dry the mouth and throat, and leave a thirst of long duration. The dose is about 20 of the fresh berries in substance and twice or thrice this number in decoction ; 1 oz. of the expressed juice or 1 dracbm of the dried berries. —[Duncans Dispensatory.) BUCKTHORN SYRUP. Gather the ber- ries in the heat of the day, and set in an earthen vessel in the oven ; squeeze out the juice; and for each peck of berries put 2 lbs. of Lisbon sugar, and boil them together a quarter of an hour. Let it cool, and then bottle it. BUCKWHEAT, or Brank, may be given to hoi'ses and to poultry, but in small quantities, for this grain is very heating. Buckwheat meal very readily fattens cattle and pigs. The flour is fine and white, but, being deficient in gluten, does not make good fermented bread. It serves well, however, for pastry and cakes; crumpets made of it, and eaten with butter, are consumed largely in Holland. A hasty pudding is also made of it with milk, and eaten with sugar. Buckwheat is most fruitful in the saccharine principle, even much more so than barley, than which also it can be raised at considerably less expense; it is, therefore, certainly worth the while of both the maltster and the distiller to give buckwheat a fair trial, should it ever be sufli- ciently cultivated in this country to aff'ord them an opportunity of doing so, and there is no doubt that it will be so cultivated when actual experiment shall have given evidence of its emi- nent usefulness. In many parts of Germany, where buckwheat constitutes almost the sole food of the peasantiy, and forms a considerable and highly-rehshed portion of the diet of the more wealthy, it is likewise the basis of their beer, which is of fine flavotir, genei'ous, and wholesome. In the distilling of German gin it likewise enters as a principal ingredient. At Dantzic, celebrated for its liqueurs, especially for the goldenicasser, termed by the French eaU' de-vie de Dantzic, the preference is given, in the manufacture of these delicious liqueurs, to the spirit produced from buckwheat, a considerable quantity of whick grain is therefore consumed by the distillers of that city. BUDRAM, or Welsh Blanc-maNge. To 2 gallons of bruised oats add 4 gallons of watei-; put them in an earthen pot, and cover the mouth slightly with a coarse cloth, stirring round occa- sionally, and place it on the hob or in the vicinity of the fire. In a short time fermentation will begin. After it has stood four or five days raise some of the mixture in a fine sieve, and strain through any quantity desired. Set this on the fire to boil, and, when of a sufficient consistency, pour it into a dish or into blanc-mange moulds to cool. It forms a very cool, palatable, and wholesome food, eaten with milk, cold, and its acidity will not disagree with the most delicate stomach. It is slightly aperient, and exceed- ingly congenial in warm weather. Were the preparation of it as expensive as blanc-mange, it would doubtless deservedly be prized; and though forming the principal diet of farm ser- vants and labourers in South Wales and in many parts of Scotland, it is scarcely known in Eng- land. It is obtained at a small e.xpense, and with little trouble, and only requires a trial to he appreciated. BUFF COLOURS. SeeBYE^va. BUG. The common bed-bug [Cimex lectu- laris) is generally found in old household stuff, in the cracks of walls, or crevices of floors, and in the joints of bedsteads. It has inhabited European houses from the time of Dioscorides, but was probably first introduced into England in the fir timber imported from America for the purpose of rebuilding London after the great Fire of 1G66, as the insect was first found in the newly-erected edifices, and afterwards became known throughout the country from London as the centre of its existence and prevalence, not having, even at the present moment, reached some of the remoter parts of the kingdom, and commonly attacking the newly-arrived visitors to the metropolis with great fury and preference ; and we believe that many of the new houses erected within these few years in the north-west end of London, are infested with beetles, ants, and other annoyances of vermin, according to the circumstances of the nature of the wood em- ployed in the carpentry of the house, as well as dependently on the location and character of the foundation on which the building rests. It likewise harasses young pigeons and other birds, and is very similar to another kind of bug which is found on swallows. The same is said by Dr. Fleming to be destroyed by the Cimex personatus, or black bug; and in character it is closely allied to the bug generally existing in a flat form under the bark of trees. The female bug commences laying her eggs in the beginning of summer. They are of a tolerable comparative size, whitiah[ 175 1 BUN in colour, and covered at first with a glutinous substance, which afterwards dries and hardens, and by its means each egg becomes generally- attached and fastened to a small hair-like stalk, or to any other object with which it comes in contact. The female lays fifty eggs at a time, and the usual periods for depositing them are the months of March, May, July, September; and thus every female bug that lives through the season may produce two hundred young ones. Three weeks are required for the hatch- ing of the eggs, at the end of which time the young bugmal?e3 his appearance under the form of a large, lively larva, or grub, nearly resembling his parent, except in size, the structure of the feelers, and a few minor differences; and having undergone the usual transformations, becomes in about three months a perfect insect. There have been for no vermin, perhaps, a greater number of specifics prescribed and ad- ministered than for bugs; while the greater number of them have, unfortunately, been found on trial to fail in the certainty of their eradica- tion, and we should, therefore, feel a reluctance to add to the number of these proposed reme- dies, and a doubt of the efficacy of the new ones we have to add to the list, had not the circum- stances, under which their perfect success has been tested, been of a character so highly favour- able to the production of these disgusting ver- min, and every other method previously adopted and resolutely practised failed to remove them. The first remedy is a saturated solution of alum; it being only necessary to reduce common alum to powder, and dissolve as much as possible of it in hot water, until the powder remains un- dissolved at the bottom. This strong alum- water is then to be applied hot, by means of a brush, to every joint and crevice of the room which could harbour the insects. Get 9 lbs. of alum, and having bruised or powdered it, dissolve it in 3 or 4 quarts of boiling water, letting it remain in a warm place, and stirring frequently until the solution is completed. After washing and scouring the suspected furniture and floors all over with soap and water, take a brush, and apply the alum-water to every part, especially the cracks and crevices; and for the walls add alum to the whitewash. The second remedy is, perhaps, even more effectual, but has objections to its use on account of the strong odour which for a few days it diffuses on evaporation, and that is, the common spirit of naphtha of com- merce, now so much employed for a variety of other purposes, and to be procured at a cheap rate. This is to be applied in its ordinary cold state, in the same manner as the alum-water. It need scarcely be added that extreme vigilance and cleanliness must form the indispensable accompaniment of any and every process for the secure exemption from the bug, or any other species of vermin of an odious and insidious character.—[Magazine of Domestic Economy ) BUG BITES. iSWAdder. BUGLOSS (Anchusa officinalis) was formerly admitted among medicinal plants, and the slight bitterness in the flowers may render them some- what tonic; but if they had not been given in wine by ancient herbalists they would not have been for their merits included among the four cordial flowers, BULLACE CHEESE (with the Skins). Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar on a hot hearth or in a saucepan of water. Pour off some of the juice, and to every 2 lbs. of fruit weigh ^ lb. of sugar. Set the fruit in a pan over the fire; let it boil quickly till it begins to look dry; take out the stones, add the sugar, stir it well, and simmer it slowly for two hours; then boil it quickly half an hour. The jam may then be poured into potting pans. BULLACE CHEESE (without the Skins), Bake or boil the fruit as above, but, instead of taking out the juice, beat the bullaces through a coarse sieve; then proceed as before, crack the stones, and boil the kernels with the jam. The sugar must not be added until the juice has evaporated. BULLACES : To Presf.rve. Prick the fruit, throw it into scalding water for a minute, take it clear from the water, and strew over it powdered lump sugar. The next day pour off the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it over the bullaces, and let it stand a day cr two. Boil the syrup again, put in the fruit, and boil them together (be careful not to mash them), and then put the preserves into jars; when cold put bnuidy papers. To 1 lb. of i'ruit allow i, lb. of sugar. BULLOCK. See Bkf.f. BUNION. This chiefly differs from a corn iu being larger and always on the ball of the great toe. It commences hy a thickening of the skin and then a bag forming in the skin attended by inflammation, and the forming of serum, or limpid matter. If the pressure causing the thickening is removed, and all causes of irritating the part avoided, the inconvenience is speedily removed. Otherwise inflammation increases, and leeches, poultices, and the lancet to- allow the escape of the matter are necessary. If the abscess does not speedily heal nitric acid should be carefully applied to its inner surface; but all this should be done by a surgeon, for wounds about the joints of the feet often end in ampu- tation and even lock-jaw. The commencement of a bunion generally takes place in youth. Children complain that their shoes pinch them across the foot, on the side of the great toe joint, which soon, if not attended to, begins to enlarge,[ 1-6 3 BUN BUN and frequently to inflame; it becomes stiff, and they cannot walk without pain. A bunion plaster should immediately be applied, which is of the same kind as that which we have described below, but larger than for corns. Indeed the circle, or hole, which is required to admit the enlargement on the joint will be 'found the size that is required for the corn plaster, that is, about the circumference of a shilling. A foot which is disfigured by a bunion will always be found to take an unsightly direction towards the ends of the toes: the great toe of the right foot, for example, turning towards the next, and in time pressing against it and causing corns. To remedy this, and to assist the of&ce of the plaster, a piece of cotton wool, or, better still, several thicknesses of doeskin fastened to- gether should be insinuated between the large and second toe, at the end, as this tends to lessen the pressure of the shoe at the joint. Considerable relief may be obtained by binding a strip of common adhesive plaster a quarter of a yard in length, and about a quarter of an inch wide, round the great toe and second toe, just above the ball of the foot, sufficiently tight to permit the patient to walk with ease. This will strengthen the joint and prevent the ball of the foot enlarging. It is far better to wash the feet every morning with a piece of flannel and yellow soap and warm water, than to soak them at night; tlie inflammation of the bunion may be thus gradually reduced. It is also a good plan to place a piece of soap plaster, or common diachylon plaster spread on thick, soft wash- leather, all over the bunion or corn ; this relieves from the pressure of the shoe. The late Dr. Warren recommended soaking the feet in mus- tard and water, or merely rubbing the bunions with flour of mustard and water, taking care not to raise a blister. The application for a few times has been known to give considerable relief. BUNS. See American Buns. BUNS, BATH. See Bath. BUNS, COMMON. Rub 2 ozs. of butter into 2 lbs. of flour, 4 ozs. of sugar, a little Jamaica pepper, and a few caraway seeds. Put 1 or 2 spoonsful of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste; set it by the fire to rise. They will bake quickly on tins. You may add nutmeg. BUNS, CROSS. To the above mixture put oz. of ground allspice, cinnamon and mace mixed, and when half proved press the form of a cross, with a tin mould, in the centre, and finish as above. BUNS, RICHER. Put 4 lbs. of fine flour in a wooden bowl; set a sponge of it with 1 gill of yeast and 1 pint of warm miik ; then mix with it 1 lb. of sifted sugar, lib. of oiled fresh butter, coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small quantity of each pounded fine. Roll the paste into buns, set them on a baking-plava rubbed with butter, put them in a moderate oven to prove, then wash them with a paste- brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a good colour. BUNS, SCOTCH (Christmas). Take 4 lbs. of stoned raisins, 2J lbs. of currants well cleaned and dried, i lb. of blanched almonds, of candied orange and lemon-peel ^ lb. each, 4 lbs. of flour, and 22 ozs. of butter. Then rub the butter with the flour till well mixed together; add a little warm water and ^ pint of good fresh yeast, and work it into a light, smooth paste ; cut off nearly one-third of the paste to form the sheet or case, and lay it aside. With the rest work up the fruit, sweetmeats, and spices; make it into a round form like a thick cheese. Roll out the sheet of paste, lay the bun in the centre, and gather it all round, closing it at the bottom by wetting the edges of the paste and cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Turn it up, and run a wire or small skewer through from the top to the bottom every here and there, and prick the top with a fori?. Double and flour a sheet of grey paper, and lay the bun upon it; bind a piece round the sides, also doubled and floured, to keep the bun in a proper shape. Bake it in a modei-ate oven. BUNS, SCOTCH (Rich). Take 8 lbs. of flour, 1 pint of yeast, 2 lbs. of butter made into a dough; put it in a warm place to rise. Have 41bs. of stoned raisins, 4 lbs. of well-cleaned currants, 2 lbs. of orange-peel, I lb. of citron, 2 lbs. of blanched sweet almonds, all cut small; i oz. of nutmeg, 1 oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of cinnamon, 1 oz. of corianders, J oz. of ground aniseed, J oz. of caraway seed. Mix all well together; separate two-thirds of the dough and mix the fruit and spices with it. Mix them well in. Roll out the other third into a sheet sufficiently large to cover the fruit-dough; lay it on it, work it out with the hands into a round shape till it is three inches thick; draw up the paste all over and make it meet in the middle; turn it over upon a sheet of soft brown paper that has been floured, and bind it up ydth a paper band rubbed with oiled butter to prevent it sticking. Prick it well, put it in a very hot oven. It will be known when it is done enough by thrusting a knife through the centre ; when the knife comes out quite clean it is baked. Brush the top over with cold water when it is taken out of the oven. It should not be cut for two days. BUNS, SEED. Take 2 lbs. of plain bun dough, and mix in 1 oz. of caraway seeds, butter the insides of tart pans, mould the dough into buns, and put one into each pan ; sot therr. to rise' in a warm place, and when sufficientlyBUR BUN [ 177 ] proved, ice tlieni with the white of an egg beaten to a froth; lay some pounded sugar over that, and dissolve it with water splashed from the icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. BUNTINGS. Having singed, blanched, and trussed the birds, lard and fry them; put them into a stewpan with some good gravy or broth, and when tender add sweetbreads cut in pieces and fried, a few mushrooms and morels, and 10 or 12 blanched chestnuts. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put into another pan i lb. of butter, a handful of flour, 2 onions, and 1 pint of gravy. Brown them, and then put in the birds, &c., and stew the whole together some time. Take it off and set it to cool; line a saucepan, having buttered it well, with thin slices of bacon; cover them with forcemeat half an inch thick. On this place the buntings, the breast downwards, with the rest of the ragout; take away the bacon and onion, and squeeze the juice of a lemon. Cover the whole with a layer an inch thick of forcemeat, press it close and smooth it with a knife, brush it over with egg, strew bread- crumbs over, and bake it an hour. When wanted for table loosen it from the saucepan with a knife, and turn it on a dish. Squeeze the juice of an orange on it and serve. BURGLARIES. Against the practised burglar, shutters, bars, bolts, locks, or, indeed, fastenings of any kind avail but little. An old convict burglar stated that what most baffled him was: 1st, a small dog in the lower part of the house ; 2nd, a light in the house ; 3rd, bells on a spring handle fixed inside to the shutters and doors. BURGOUT, SCOTCH. This dish possesses the grand qualities of salubrity, pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fact, a sort of oatmeal hasty pudding without milk, much used by those patterns of 'combined industry, frugality, and temperance—the Scottish peasantry; and this, among other examples of the economical Scotch, is well worthy of being occasionally adopted by all who have large families and small incomes. It is made in the following easy and expeditious manner:—To 1 quart of oatmeal add gradually 2 quarts of water, so that the whole may smoothly mix; then, stirring it continually over the fire, boil it together for a quarter of an hour; after which take it up, and stir in a little salt and butter, with or without pepper. This quantity will serve a family of five or six persons for a moderate meal. BURGUNDY PITCH is the resin obtained from the common spruce-fir [Pines abies). It is used in the formation of various plasters. The usual Burgundy pitch plaster. The fol- lowing is the formula directed by the London Medical College; but, of course, smaller quan- tities in similar proportions may be mixed to- gether for family use:—Take of Burgundy pitch. 2 lbs.; frankincense, lib.; yellow resin and yel- low wax, of each 4 ozs.; expressed oil of mace, 1 oz.; olive oil, and water, of each 2 ozs. fluid. To the pitch, resin, and wax melted together, add first the frankincense, and then the oil of mace, olive oil, and water. Mix the whole,, and boil down to a proper consistence. This is a very common and useful domestic application, when a continued local stimulus is wanted, without much risk of exciting blisters or pustules. Some irrit- able habits are, however, unable to support it. This plaster is a very useful application in the catarrhal complaints of infants, and even of adults ; and in slight affections of the liver, and rheumatic pains of the trunk of the body. It is generally worn for several days, or until it drops off, in consequence of the perspiration confined beneath it. BURGUNDY WINE. The wines of Bur- gundy are ranked under three different names, distinguished by marks peculiar to each. The wines of Basse-Bourgogne are less spirituous, less full-flavoured and fragrant than those of the Cote d'Or. They are brisker, and pre- serve for a long time a weak portion of the roughness of the Bordeaux wines. The wines of Haute-Bourgogne possess all the qualities of perfect wine. In these the body does not injure their delicacy. Their lightness does not arise from want of strength, warmth, or flavour, and the spirit does not render them too intoxicating. Wines of Maqon differ in having less perfume. Their substance is more thick and less delicate, without being clammy. Wines of L'Yonne. The plants generally cultivated are, Le Pineau, black and white ; Le Tresseaii, Le Rongain, and Le Gamine. This last is a great bearer, but spoils all the wine. It would be well if the order of Charles IX., forbidding the planting of infame Gamme, were revived. In the district of Sens and Gorgny are also cultivated Le Saimioreau, Le Metier, and Le Gros. Red Wines of the First Quality. Dane- moine, near Tonnerre. Here is situated the famous spot called des Olivotes. The wines are of a good colour, much body, and particularly spirituous, and are at the same time light and delicate. They have also seve and bouquet. They should be bottled after three years, and will keep a long time. The country of Ton- nerre has many distinguished cms, as those of Pitoy, de Perriere, and des Preaux. Auxerre. Tho best vineyards are upon the mountain, called La Grande Cote d'Auxerre. It is covered with vines, and planted with the Pineau Noir. Les Clos de la Chainette and de Migrenne hold the first rank. The first produces heady wines, light and delicate, with a seve and bouquet. TheBUR BUK second wines are not so choice, but have more body and spirit. Tiiey ai'e reported to bear exportation better than any other, and to have been frequently sent to England, and always into Italy, without suffering from change. Ked Wines of the Second Quality. La Ciivee Clairion produces wines possessing the qualities of those of La Chainette. La Cuvee Boivin wines are comparable with those of Migrenne. Les Cuvees Judas, Pied de Rat, Eosoir, and Quetard occupy the first rank. Ejnneuil wines differ little from those of Ton- nerre. Les Coteaux, called La Poche, La Haute- Perriere, Le Buisson, Bridenne, and Chausoin are particularly distinguished. Wines of a pale colour are made, called vins gris, light and delicate, but heady. Irancy, a canton of Coulanges, pro- duces wines of good colour, full-bodied, and gener- ous : Palotte is distinguished. The Benedictines found so much quality in the wine of La Palotte that they mixed it with the wine of La Chainette, to put it into a state to bear exportation. The crus, called du Paradis, de Bergere, de Vaux Chasses, and des Cailles are inferior to La Pa- lotte, but give excellent wines. Danemoine has also growths, called Les Marguentes and Les Corbemoreau Coulanges. La Vineuse has still vineyards of reputation; the most esteemed is that du Seigneur. The owner has kept the ancient plant Le Franc Pineau. Few others have followed his example, and by rooting out this vine, and substituting others more pro- lluctive, they have destroyed the reputation of the wines. Eed Wines of the Thied Quality. Fince- lotte, near Irancy, produces wines of the same kind as those of Irancy, but inferior. Auxerre again appears as furnishing wines of the second growths of La Grande Cote, and in the choice from other slopes in this district full-bodied and gener- ous wines, but less delicate than the first. The best are the wines du Tureau, du Moutardoin, de St. Nitace. At Avalon many good wines are produced, amongst which are distinguished those de la Cote d'Annay, de Rouvre, and du Teau, particularly the vineyard called Le Champ Gachot. Vezelay and Oivry produce wines of a good quality; the best in the vineyards are called Le Clos at Vezelay, and La Girande at Givry. These wines are stated to bear particularly well the passage by sea. They become sometimes thick and of a bad flavour, but, suffered to rest three or four months, they recover their clear- ness and quality. In this class may also be reckoned the vineyards of La Belle Fille at Jussy, St. Jacques at Joigny, du Chateau at Tronchoil, and La Vieille Plante at Pontigny. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. Cheney, Volichere, Tronchoil, Molosme, near Tonnerre, and some other vineyards, give good wines. Cravant, canton of Vermanton, wines are of deep colour, body, and strong gout. Jussy wines are of the kind of Coulanges and La Belle Fille. Vermanton wines are light, agreeable, and soon ripe. The vineyards of Bertry, La Vaux Maine, Nandigion, Les Plaites-Hautes, and La Grande Cote bear the highest reputation. Joigny wines are light, dehcate, and very pleasant, but are accused of quickly attacking the head. Those of La Cote St. Jacques, Migrenne, and St. Michael are the best. The vineyards of St. Bris, called LaPoire, Les Chaussans, La Chaise, Les Perprauts, La Voie Blanche, and Blamoy furnish wines of a good colour, full body, and good flavour. Arcy-sur- Cure has wines of the first growths like those of Coulanges, and nearly resembling them in qua- lity. At Pontigny, three leagues from Auxerre, the produce in general is only common wines; but one vine, called La Vieille Plante, furnishes wine which unites the seve and bouquet of Bordeaux with the other qualities of Burgundy. Vegennes, Juney, St. Martin, Commissay, and some other vujeyards, give wines of good colour and flavour, and are very firm. Ville-Neuve-sur- Yonne, St. Julien du Sault, and many communes with Joigny, produce good wines, which, when well-chosen and in good season, keep well and improve. Paron, near Sens, has the only yine- yard of any reputation. Veron produces wines of a good colour, and they soon become ripe. The other wines are more or less common, and are only sent to Paris. White Wines of the First Quality. Ton- nerre, Les Cotes de Vaumorillon, and des Gri- sees give wines full of body, delicacy, and spirit. Chablis, four leagues from Auxerre, produces wines much esteemed, the best of which are ranked amongst the second in the countty. Above all other wines they keep their trans- parent whiteness. They are spirited without being heady, have body, delicacy, and bouquet. The growths most in request are:—1. Le Clos. This wine, strong in spirit, is a little harsh the first year, but becomes very agreeable and keeps well. 2. The growths of Valmur and Grenolles. These wines have more sweetness and delicacy than those of Le Clos; but having lost the quality called nioustille, they are less spirituous, and do not keep. 3. Vaudesir, Bouguereau, and Mont de Milieu give very fine wines, and of the most perfect transparency. In order to come to their highest degree of quality these wines should be kept two years in cask and one in bottle. They will keep many years. White Wines of the Second Quality. Many vineyards of the canton of Chablis pro- duce wines which difier little from those above, viz.. La Cote Delchet, La Fourchaume, part of the Cotes de Troene, de Vaucompin, de Blanchot, and de Fontmay, Tonnerre has some crus whichC 179 3 BUR BUR may figure here, Les Charloups, Les Bridaines, Les Boutoirs, and La Maison Rouge. These wines are sparkling and agreeable, preserve a long time their moustilte, become spirituous by age, and always keep well. Chablis is the second cuvee of this vineyard, amongst which are distinguished Le Chapelot, Vauvilion, part of Bouguereau, and La Preusse. Vaulovent, Vossegros, Le Bas du Clos, &c., give agreeable wines when not mixed with those of the lowest crus. Champs and St. Bris give good wines, particularly Les Cuvees de la Poire, de Blamoy, de la Voie Blanche, and des Chaussans. These take an amber colour by age. White Wines of the Third Quality. Vi- vier, Bera, and Hey are agreeable vins ordinaires. Bossy, Serigny, Tissey, Vegannes, Bernoud Die, Tanlay, &c., furnish wines of good flavour, which keep well. Milly, Maligny, Poinchy, Villy, Chiche, Ligny Chatel, Polly, Chemilly, Courgy, &c., furnish vim ordinaires and vins communs, of which some are good. Wines of the Cote d'Or. This department owes its name to a chain of little mountains which reach from Dijon and Chalons, and in the districts of Beaume and Dijon the wines called les vins fins de Haute-Bourgogne are produced. In good seasons these wines unite all the quali- ties of perfect wine. They want no mixture nor preparation to reach the highest degree of per- fection. The operations which in other coun- tries are called soins qui aident la qualite, are hurtful to the wines of the Cote d'Or. They have their peculiar bouquet, which is not brought out under three or four years. The introduction of aromatic or other wine changes them. Even the mixture of two wines of the first class destroys the bouquet, and reduces them to the second class, and even to the third. The red wines join to a beautiful colour much perfume and a deli- cious taste; they are at the same time full-bodied, light, delicate, and spirituous, without being too lieady. The white possess the same qualities. They are mellow, and grown old of an amber colour. 25,000 hectares in the department of the Cote d'Or, and 10,000 in the district of Chalons-sur-Saone, together with 35,000, pro- duce 800,000 hectolitres. The inhabitants con- sume 320,000; the rest is exported. The plants in cultivation are red grapes, Le Noirien and Le Pineau, which last grows in the vineyards which produce the finest wines. Le Gibaudot, Le Melon Noir, and Le Gamme produce the vins ordinaires and vins communs. The white are, Le Chaudenay, which makes the best wine; Le Melon Blanc, Le Narbonne, or Chasselas, and Le Gamine as in red. This last produces only inferior wines. The vineyards are con- sidered in the country as divided into three Cotes: La Cote de Nuits, and some of the district of Dijon; La Cote de Beaume, comprising all the district of Beaume with the exception of the canton of Nuits; and lastly, La Cote Chalonnaise,^ containing all the vineyards of the district of Chalons-sur-Saone. Red Wines of the First Quality. The crus forming this first class are, excepting Le Chambertin, situated in the canton of Nuits, three leagues north-west of Beaume. They are ranked in the following order:—La Romance Conti, in the district of Vosne, which is three quarters of a league from Nuits, and four leagues from Dijon. The wine is remarkable for its fine colour, ai'oma, spirit, and delicious flavour. The real wine is seldom procurable, as the vineyard consists of only 172 ares of ground, producing on an average not more than 10 or 12 pieces or demi- queues. Le Chambertin, two leagues and a half from Dijon, occupies 25 hectares, and produces yearly from 130 to 150 pieces of excellent wine, which joins to a fine colour much seve and rich- ness, a perfect gout and the sweetest bouquet. Le Richebourg differs from the Romanee Conti in being a little more coloured, less fine, and delicate. It is distinguished by a great deal of seve and bouquet. Le Clos Vovjeot, three leagues from Dijon, produces wines very much like the preceding, but more spirituous. The products of different parts of this clos vary in quality. The higher parts give a wine which is very fine and delicate; the lower parts, and those which border upon the road, produce much inferior wines. La Romanee de St. Vivaut, so called as having belonged to a convent of that name, furnishes wines of the same kind as that of the Romanee de Conti, but inferior in quality. The wines of La Tdche are nearly similar to the preceding, perhaps superior, and moreover can be kept a long time. The wine of Le St. Georges at Nuits is much like the Chambertin. It is, however, inferior in quality ; it has more colour, flavour, body, and even richness than those we have cited, but they are preferred for their beauty and flavour. Gorton d'Aloxe, canton of Beaume. Its wine is of the same kind as that of St. Georges. It has a little more richness, but is less palatable; it is very highly coloured, full-bodied, and strong, keeps a long time, and bears sea voyage well, acquiring by age much seve and bouquet. Besides these celebrated crus there are other vineyards the wines of which approach the quality of the above; namely, Le Clos de Premeau, Le Porets at Nuits; Le Musigny, Les Bonnes Mares, and Les Veroilles at Chambolle; Le Clos du Tart and Le Clos-a-la- Roche at Morey; Le Clos Morjot and La Matroie, Le Clos St. Jean at Cliassagne ; La Perriere at Fixin. These being little kno\vn sell for less, although, comparable in quality. The wines which bear exportation by sea the best are.BUR BUR [ 180 ] Le Gorton, Le Chani'bertin, Le St. Georges, and La Perriere, when produced in a good season. Red Wines of the Second Quality. After those above mentioned comes Fosne, three leagues from Nuits. The wines of this vineyard are in general the finest and most delicate of La Cote Nuitoune. The best are those called Echojeaux and La Grande Rue. They follow immediately those of La Tache and Romance St. Vivaut at Nuits, three leagues north of Beaume. After the product of St. Georges all the wines of the first quality of Nuits are of equal merit, and in commerce go under the name of vins de Nuits de premiere qualite. They cannot be drank until the third or fourth year, but support well carriage Dy land or by sea. Premau, near Nuits, already mentioned, has moreover some wines which rank with those of the first quality of Nuits. Cham- bolle, a league from Nuits. This vineyard is surnamed the Volnay de la Cote de Nuits. Its wines have a little more body and spirit than Le Volnay, and keep better. Volnay, half a league south-west of Beaume, produces the ■finest and most agreeable wine in the district of Beaume, and even of all France. It has, more- over, seve and a charming bouquet. The crus most distinguished are Les Caillerets, Les Cham- pans, La Chapelle, and Chevrey. Pomard, three- fourths of a league from Beaume. The quality of its wines differ little from those of the pre- ceding, only they have more colour and body. Le Clos de la Gomarenne, La Vigne (called La JRugien), and that des Epeneaux are the best. Beaume. The grounds around this town furnish the most wines, both of the first and second quality; they differ little from the Volnay and Pomard. Some even rival the best of these vineyards. The wines of La Cote de Beaume have the reputation of being the most francs de goiit of all Burgundy. The crus most in repute are Les Greves, Les Feves, Le Clos de Mouches, du Roy and Les Clos Morey, sl league and a half from Nuits. The wines of this commune are not very inferior to a great part of those of Nuits. Some are superior, as before cited—Le Clos de Tart and Le Clos-a-la-Roche. Savigny, near Beaume. In this very extensive vineyard much wine is produced, the major part of the third and fourth classes. There are some privileged quarters, the products of which are little inferior to the first quality of Beaume; as La Dominode, Les Vorgelesses, Les Marconney, and Les Jairons. Meursaidt produces in its vineyards Les Sante- nets and Les Petures: wines like those of Les Caillerets, but with more body and keep better. The wines called Les Cras have all the fine qua- lities of Volnay. Red Wines of the Third Quality. Gevrey, two leagues from Dijon or La Cote de Nuits. Its crus, the most esteemed after those of Chambertin, are St. Jacques, de la Chapelle, des Vervilles, and des Mazey. They approach -those of Nuits in quality. Chassange wines are agreeable and fine; but their taste less franc. The same privileged locality produces wines scarcely inferior to those of the first class ; such as Le Morjot, and particularly its Clos et la Maltrou and Le Clos St. Jean. Aloxe, a league from Beaume. Its wines are full-bodied, fine, spirituous, and have some bouquet. The best vineyards are, Les Pougets, La Charlemagne, and Les Bressantes. They are little inferior to the wine of Corton. Savigny, near Beaume, fur- nishes wines which are of the kind and quality of the second pressings of Beaume; also ordi- nary wines of the first quality are made, but they do not keep. Blagny, in the district of Pu- ligny, gives fine wines and of good quality. Saute- nay, canton of Nolay, near Beaume. This vine- yard produces wines of good flavour, which keep a long time. The classes called Les Gravieres and Le Clos de Tavanne close the list of delicate wines. They resemble the second pressings of Beaume, Pomard, and Volnay. Chenove, near Dijon. The crus which can appear in this class are, Les Clos du Roi and Le Chapttre. Their wines have a good flavour, are very firm, and acquire by age much quality and a pleasant bouquet. The wines called de seconds cuvee, produced upon the lands of Vosne, de Nuits, de Volnay, de Pomard, de Beaume, de Chambolle, and de Morey, ought to appear in this class as wines demi-fins. The same vineyards also furnish vins ordinaires of the first and second quality, which are often sent out as vins fins in the countries where those of the best growths are not properly appreciated. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. Mer- curey, canton of Souches. Under the wines of Mercurey are included those of Touches, Estroy, and. Bourgneuf. They are distinguished amongst the wines of the Cote Chalonnaise by their pleasant flavour, lightness, and perfume. They are the most natural flavoured of all this district, and keep a long time. The best are the most esteemed amongst the ordinary wines of the first quality. All the wines of the Cote Chalon- naise have little richness, but are of a dry flavour, which distinguishes them from those of Beaume, under which name they often appear in com- merce. Givry, two leagues from Chalons, has privileged crus superior to the first classes of Mercurey, viz., Les Boichevaux, Le Clos Salo- mon, Le Cellier, La Barude, and les vins rouges. The wines are very full-bodied, spirituous, and well flavoured. The other crus furnish some ordinary wines of the first quality, and many others of the second and third. The territory of Dijon contains some esteemed vineyards In the first rank are those of Marcs d'Or, which are ordinary wines of the first class. The crus[ 181 ] BUR BUR Les Ponneaux are wines like the above, but in- ferior in quality. Monthelie, canton of Meur- sault, upon the Cote de Beaume. This vineyard has some slopes which produce wines of this kind and quality, and are equal to the second pressings of Volnay. Amongst the others many good ordinary wines of the first and second quality are found. Meursault. The wines of this place, called Passetoiis Grains, are sound, very full-bodied, and fit to re-establish weakened wines. When old (three or four years in the cask, and some months in bottles,) they are very good as ordinary wines—some of the first, some of the second quality. Fixin, Fixey, and Bro- clion, district of Dijon, produce very good ordi- nary wines, for the most part rather of the first than second quality. La Perriere produces fine, full-bodied wines. St. Martin, near Chalons. The wines are full-bodied, and keep long; they are deteriorated by introducing bad plants. Les Chassieres: ordinary wines of the first quality. Pully, three leagues from Chalons, also ordinary wines of the first quality. Monbogre, two leagues from Chalons. These wines are of a deep colour, which gain much by age. Their merit is their strengthening weak wines, and from this they are called les medecines de la cote Chalonnaise. Red Wines of the Fifth Quality. The wines composing this class are:—l.The second, third, and fourth pressings of all the first four classes. 2. All vineyards which only give ordi- nary wines inferior to those cited. Montagny, Chenove, Buxey, St. Vallerin, and Saules are known as the vineyards of Cote de Buxey. Jambles, canton of Givry, St. Jean de Vaux, and St. Marc produce much common wine, high coloured, and of good body; but without spirit, and harsh and coarse. The vineyards of the dis- trict of Chdtillon-sur-Seine only produce common wines. Semur produces ordinary wines of the second and third quality, amongst which those of Havigny are quoted as good. White Wines of the First Quality. Pur ligny, canton of Nolay. Upon this land the Mont Racket is situated, producing the superior wines, called, under three denominations, accord ing to their excellence, vin de Mont Eachet ami, Le Chevalier Mont Eachet, Le Bdtard Mont Eachet. The first is a perfect wine, uniting all qualities; the others partake of these, but not in the same degrees. White Wines of the Second Quality. Meursault produces wines of great repute, and often sold for the Mont Rachet. The Coteau la Perriere is renowned. The vineyards La Com- belle. La Goutte d'Or, La Genevriere, and Les Charnies produce wines of the same kind. White Wines of the Third Quality The vineyard Eougeot and many others of Meursault give wines of the first class, which only differ by slight shades. The farm of Blagny, upon the territory of Puligny, gives wine? which sell as high as the best qualities of Meursault. The white wines of Haute-Bourgogne are fit to be bottled at the end of a year or eighteen months. As they grow old they take an amber colour, without altering their quality or clearness. From this colour the Goutte d'Or of Meursault is named. When bottled they become thick and troubled, but suffered to rest they recover their clearness, bouquet, and good flavour. White Wines of the Fourth Quality. The second qualities of Meursault, amongst which La Bar re is distinguished. White Wines of the Fifth Quality. The third qualities of Meursault take the first rank. Montagny, Chenove, Buxey, St. Vallerin, and Saules furnish light, sparkling, well-flavoured wines, which keep their liqueur a long time, and, if bottled in March, sparkle like Champagne. Bougeron, canton de Chagny: wines nearly similar to the third qualities of Meursault. Givry, in the part of its vineyards called Le Champ Paurea, a like wine, but less light and spirituous. The other vineyards produce ordi- nary wines, drank in the cabarets of the country, or mixed with inferior red wines. BURNET {Poterium sanguisorhd). This plant has a pleasant flavour, and is frequently used in cool tankards and salads, as well as in the following preparations :— BURNET SAUCE. Wash some bumet very clean and pick it cai'efully leaf by leaf; put 1 tea-spoonful of salt into ^ pint of boiling water; boil the burnet about ten minutes ; drain it on a sieve, mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depends upon the bumet being minced very fine. Put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it, by degrees, about i pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the burnet will add to its thickness. Never pour burnet and butter over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. BURNET VINEGAR. Burnet is in best season from Midsummer to Michaelmas. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the fresh green leaves of burnet, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days. If you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let them steep fourteen days more. BURNS AND SCALDS. In all accidents from burns and scalds the part injured should be immediately plunged into cold water, or it should be pumped upon. The ease and benefit obtained by these means will be sudden and ser- viceable. After the use of water for a due length of time, the injured parts may be covered with linen rags moistened with the same, and streamsBUT BUR [ 182 ] of air, by means of bellows, may be passed over them, until a strong sense of cold arises. By this simple process, adopted immediately after the accident, a large piece of skin that has been burned to the appearance of charring, and sur- rounded by a high degree of inflammation, has been perfectly cured in a very short time, with- out either ulceration or sloughing taking place, the crust coming off diy, and leaving a sound surface. The application of ice has also been much recommended by Sir James Earle, and other eminent practitioners. The following lini- ment has been in use for a length of time in the practice of St. Thomas's Hospital, in cases of burns or scalds, by smearing the parts over with a feather dipped in it:—Take olive oil, 3 ozs.; lime-water, 4 ozs. Mix them for use. In all probability it might be more advisable, in pre- ference to this, to use cold water, by means of linen cloths dipped in it, or either of the follow- ing, as long as the parts are occupied by heat and inflammation, viz.:—Take rectified spirit, S ozs.; lime-water, ^ pint. Or, take solution of acetate of lead, 1 drachm; spirit of camphor, 3 drachms; distilled water, 1 pint. The following is also a good application, used cold, where the skin is not broken in burns or Bcalds, keeping the parts constantly moistened with it, by means of fine linen cloths. Take lime-water, 6 ozs.; proof spirit, 3 ozs. Equal parts of lime-water and milk are also used to allay the heat and inflammation consequent upon burns and scalds ; and to alleviate the pain and procure rest, as well as in those cases where the nervous system has received a severe shock, opiates, in sufficient doses, may be given. The after-treatment will depend much on the circum- stances of the case itself. Should the burn be deep, and, of course, the part killed, the basil- icon is the best application until the parts begin to show signs of suppuration; but, should the parts immediately round the injured part be much inflamed, we are in the constant habit of using the bread-and-milk poultice until it sub- sides. When the inflammation is reduced to a healthy degree, we return to the basilicon, or to the cerate, until the part sloughs out. After this has taken place we either use Turner's cerate, or the basilicon, or simple cerate, as the wound may seem to require. We use the first where the discharge is too abundant; the second, where it is deficient; and the third, where the sup- purating process is going on kindly. In extensive bums the patient almost always complains of a sensation of cold. When this is the case a free dose of laudanum should be given, and he should be placed in an atmosphere of a moderate temperature. The wound should be opened only when necessary. Should much re- action take place, all stimulating substances, as liquor, animal food, or broths, should be with- held ; and, in some few instances, even bleeding and purging are necessary. BUSHEL. Our market gardeners and re- tailers of fruit, potatoes, &c., generally vend their commodities as if the Act of Parliament, 5 and 6 Will. IV. c. 63, did not exist. By this statute selling by heaped measures is forbidden- under a penalty of not more than 405. for every such sale. Section 8 provides, that as some articles heretofore sold by heaped measure are incapable of being stricken, and may not incon- veniently be sold by weight, all such articles may henceforth be sold by a bushel measui'e, corresponding in shape with the bushel pre- scribed by the 5 Geo. IV. c. 74, for the sale of heaped measure, or by any multiple or aliquot part thereof, filled in all parts as nearly to the level of the brim as the size and shape of the articles will admit ; but nothing herein shall prevent the sale by weight of any article hereto- fore sold by heaped measure. The 5 Geo. IV. c. 74 thus referred to, enacts, by section 7, that for potatoes, fniit, &c., the bushel shall be made round, with a plain and even bottom, be ] 9^ inches from outside to outside, and capa- ble of containing 80 lbs. weight of water. By Act of Parliament a standard gallon contaiiis 10 lbs. of pure water, and 8 of such gallons are a bushel. Besides this, the only legal bushel, we have several local bushels vaiying in their size. At Abingdon and Andover a bushel con- tains 9 gallons; at Appleby and Penrith a bushel of peas, rye, and wheat contains 16 gallons, and of barley, big, malt, and oats, 20 gallons; at Carlisle a bushel contains 24 gallons ; at Chester a bushel of wheat, rye, &c., contains 32 gallons, and of oats as much as 40; at Dorchester a bushel of malt and of oats contains 10 gallons ; at Falmouth the bushel of stricken coals is 16 gallons, and of other things 20, or usually 21 gallons; at Kingston-on-Thames the bushel contains 8J gallons ; at Newbury, 9 gallons; st Wycomb and Reading, 8| gallons; and at Stam- ford, 16 gallons. Such irregularities are pro- ductive of much inconvenience. See Baskets. BUTCHERS' BROOM {Ruscus aculeatus). The roots and berries are purgative. The seeds are roasted and substituted for cofi'ee. BUTCHERS' MEAT. See Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, and Poek. BUTLER. This is usually the head man- servant of a gentleman's establishment, compara- tively few having the general supervisor, called the hov^e steward. We must confine ourselves to a mere enumeration of his duties. The cellarage, or management of the wine and beer cellars, devolves upon him, and to direct the brewing ; he arranges the tables for all meals, directs the servants waitinghe has the plate under his[ 183 3 BUT BUT care; where no valet is kept lie has to keep his master's clothes in good order, carry them to his dressing-room, and arrange his wardrobe. After breakfast he removes the tea-tray; but the footman takes away the um and clears the table. He then cleans the plate and locks it up, after which he breakfasts with the housekeeper, unless all the servants breakfast together before the family. He then attends to his master's dress- ing-room, and gives out such clothes to the foot- man as require brushing, and gives such directions respecting his master's linen as may be necessary. He then dresses to be ready to attend upon company, to receive cards from the footman, and announce visitors. For luncheon, after the under-butler, or footman, has laid the cloth, the butler arranges the table, and provides such wine and beer as may be needed ; if there be company he remains in the room. For dinner the under-butler, or footman, lays the cloth and carries up the plate delivered to him by the butler, who then arranges the table. He also carries up the first dish, and places all the dishes npon the table, as the other servants bring them from the kitchen. He does the same for every course, and does not leave the room until he has placed the wine and dessert upon the table. He then takes tea mth the housekeeper, whilst the under-butler, or footman, prepares for the parlour tea; but if the bell rings during the dessert the butler answers the call, and also during the whole evening. He carries up the tea-tray assisted by the footman; he hands the tea-cups and the footman the bread and butter, &c. Sup- pers are now rarely taken, but when they are, and also at balls and routs, the butler manages them the same as at dinner. When there is no valet he sees that the gentlemen's slippers and the bed candles are properly provided. Finally, he examines and locks up the plate; brings from his master's dressing-room such things as will have to be brushed ready for the morning; sees that the windows and doors are fastened; that the menservants are in bed, and then retires to his ovra room. A butler's wages vary from £30 to £80, out of which he finds his own clothes and washing. His perquisites are his master's cast-off clothes, ends of wax candles, and soiled playing cards. BUTTER. Butter is the product of milk, which forms important articles of food in every country. The same quantity of milk that sells for 6^. yields about 4d. if made into butter, and only Sd. when made into cheese. The milk of the cow yields moi-e than twice as much cream as ewe's milk; but this is best adapted for making cheese. Cheese-making is best carried on in summer; butter in winter. The average produce of a grass-fed cow is about 5 gallons per day, from tlie cream of which about 22 ozs. of butter may be made. Cows yield more milk when milked three times a day than when milked twice ; and the milk of some cows yields more cream than that of others. The cream yielded by the last half of the milking, if the udder is properly emptied, is not less than eight, and sometimes sixteen times as much as that yielded by the first half of the milking. Water added to milk causes it to throw up a larger quantity of cream than if unmixed, but the cream is of inferior quality. Milk cari'ied to a distance before it is set for cream, or any other way shaken, yields less cream, and is also thinner. Cream which has not acquired some degree of sourness before it is churned requires in summer long churning, and is generally tough and gluy; and, in winter, butter will scarcely form unless heat is applied. Cows in summer should be milked three times a day at least; early in the morning, at noon, and just before nightfall. If this be not done the greatest possible quantity of milk will be far from being obtained from them. The milk is secreted in the udder very much in proportion to the quantities required, as we see in the case of dogs, cats, pigs, and other animals, which produce more young than one at a time; and we know that a cow by scanty milking can very soon be put dry. It is, therefore, of the utmost consequence that the whole of the milk secreted be at each meeting carefully drawn away. The cows should be as little driven as possible before milking; and their teats should be washed clean with water by means of a sponge before the process commences. It may be laid down as a general rule that 18 lbs. of milk will yield 1 lb. of butter; and that this is the produce of a single cow per day during summer, and half that quantity in winter. Some, however, will furnish twice or even thrice this quantity. The effects of feeding, treatment, management, and the idiosyncracy of particular animals are here astonishingly great. When brought into the dairy the milk should be strained through a fine sieve, and then poured into pans or troughs about four inches deep. From twelve to twenty hours in summer, and about twice as long in winter, should be permitted to elapse before the milk is skimmed after it has been put into the milk-pans. If on applying the tip of the finger to the surface nothing adheres to it, the cream may be properly taken off; and during the hot summer months, this should always be done in the morning before the dairy gets hot. The cream should then be deposited in a deep pan, placed in the coolest part of the dairy, or in a cool cellar where free air is admitted. It is customary to stir the cream frequently with the view of encouraging a slight degree of acidity, which is deemedBUT BUT [ 184 ] necessary to the production of butter; but it is well kuown tliat excellent butter can be pro- duced from perfectly fresh cream. In hot weather churning should be performed, if possible, every other day; but if this is not convenient the cream should be daily shifted into a clean pan, and the churning should never be less frequent than twice a week. This work should be performed in the coolest time of the day, and in the coolest part of the house where there is a free draught of air. Cold water should be applied to the churn, first by filling it with this some time before the cream is poured in, and then by immersing it in water to the depth of a foot or so during the operation, provided we use the pump-churn ; or by applying wet cloths to it, if we use the barrel-churn. Such means are generally to prevent the too rapid acidification of the cream, and formation of the butter. The winter season and cold weather, of course, require an opposite practice ; but we can hardly be too cautious in the application of heat; for the common practices of wrapping the churn in a warm cloth, plunging it into hot water, adding warm milk to the cream, or placing the churn near the fire, all tend to injure the butter. The best way, perhaps, is to heat the churn by filling it with boiling water before the cream is put in, and to place it in the warmest part of the house, but not close by a fire. The temperature should be as near 55° as practicable, and ought not to exceed 60°. The operation of churning ought to be moderate, equable, and uninterrupted; for if we stop or relax in our exertions the butter will go back, as it is called; and if the motion be too quick and violent the butter will be soft and of a white colour, besides imbibing a very disagreeable flavour. This, in some districts, is known by the phrase bursting the churn. Machinery of an ingenious and con- venient construction is in some districts now employed, and found to have the advantage not only of abridging labour, but of securing a more regular and uniform motion. When the operation is properly conducted the butter, after some time, suddenly forms, and is to be carefully collected and separated from the buttermilk. But in doing this it is not sufficient merely to pour off this milk or ■withdraw the butter from it; because a certain portion of the caseous and serous parts of the milk still remains- in the interstices of the butter, and must be detached from it by wash- ing if we would obtain it pure. In washing butter some think it sufficient to press the mass gently bet^7ixt the hands; others press it strongly and frequently, repeating the washings till the water comes off quite clear. The first method is preferable when the butter is made for imme- diate use fi'om new milk or cream, because the portions of such adhering to it, or muced with it, contribute to produce the sweet, agreeable flavour which distinguishes new cream. But when our object is to prepare butter for keeping we cannot repeat the washings too often, since the presence of a small quantity of milk will, in twelve hours after churning, cause it sensibly to lose its good qualities. But when the butter is soft, especially in hot weather, it should be allowed to lie during ten or twelve minutes in the cold water to acquire better consistency before being washed. The process of washing butter is usually nothing more than throwing it into an earthen vessel of clear, cool water, working it to and fro with the hands, and changing the water till it comes off clear. A much preferable method, however, and that which we believe is now always practised by those who best under- stand the business, is to use two broad pieces of wood instead of the hands. This is to be pre- ferred not only on account of its apparently greater cleanliness, but also because it is of decided advantage to the quality of the butter. To this the warmth of the hand gives always more or less of a greasy appearance ; and butter washed by means of the v,-ooden flappers, as they are called, will always fetch at market a higher price than if the hand had been employed. The influence of the heat of the hand is greater than might at first have been suspected. It has always been remai'ked that a person who has natm'ally a warm hand never makes good butter. After washing the butter should be cut and sliced in every possible direction with a serrated or rough-edged knife, in order to bring out from it the smallest hair, bit of rag, strainer, or any- thing that may have chanced to fall into it. It is then to be spread in a bowl, and such a quan- tity of salt added as maj' be judged proper. If the butter is to be used immediately, or kept only for a short time, a small proportion will be sufficient; and in this state it is usually deno- minated fresh butter; but if it be intended to be kept long, or transported to a distance, an ouuce or two of salt will be requked to the pound of butter. The salt used in curing butter should be of the purest kind, well dried, and broken down, but not completely pulverised; and it must be so thoroughly worked in as to be equally incorporated with the mass. When butter is to be sold on the spot, or in the neighbouring markets, it is divided into rolls of 1 lb. or \ lb., or into lumps of 24 ozs., called dishes in some parts of England; but when it is to be kept or can-ied to a distance quantities of 84 lbs., 56 lbs or 28 lbs., are put up together in casks, usually called tubs, firkins, or half-firkins. When the butter has been sufficiently im- pregnated with salt by being spread out in thin layers, sprinkled with it, and thoroughly wrought,B U T BUT I :i85 ] it is tlien to be gently pressed into a tub or firkin, whicli must not, however, be filled quite up, but room left at the top to receive a layer of salt half an inch or an inch in thickness. lu seven or eight days the salted butter detaches itself from the sides of the firkin, shrinks, and occasions interstices. These, if allowed to re- main, would injure the butter by admitting the contact of the air. They are, therefore, to be filled up with a saturated solution of salt in water or brine strong enough to carry an egg ; the butter then to be covered by a new layer of salt, and the head of the vessel put on. Before the butter is put into the firkin care must be taken that the latter—which, if new, should be of clean white wood, and carefully washed in- side with hot brine—be well seasoned; and this is effected by exposing it for two or tliree weeks to the air, and frequently washing. The readiest method, however, is by the use of unslaked lime, or a large quantity of salt and water well boiled, with which it should be scrubbed several times, and afterwards thrown into cold water, to remain three or four days till v:anted. It should then be scrubbed as before, and well iriased with cold water; and before receiving the butter every part of the inside of the firkin must be carefully rubbed with salt. Indeed, the surest of all methods to preserve butter from spoiling, after it has been properly salted, is to keep it constantly immersed in a saturated solu- tion of this substance. An excellent composition for preserving butter may be prepared by mix- ing 1 part of saltpetre, 1 part of common salt, and a parts of sugar. This thoroughly wrought into the butter will keep it sweet a very long time, and communicate to it no salt or disagree- able taste. Some use a mixture of i oz. of dry salt finely pounded, 2 drachms of sugar, and a drachms of saltpetre to every pound of butter. As butter made in the winter is generally pale or white, and its richness at the same time inferior to that which is made during the sum- mer months, the idea of excellence has been associated with the yellow colour. Means are, therefore, employed by those who prepare and sell butter to impart to it the yellow colour where that is naturally wanting. Various sub- stances have been used for this purpose, but they must all be of the resinous class, or such as are soluble in oils. Extractive matters, and such as are soluble only in water, alcohol, &c., as beet-root and cochineal, give no tinge to butter. The substances most commonly employed are the root of the carrot and the flowers of the marigold. The juice of either of these is ex- pressed and passed through a linen cloth. A small quantity of it (and the proportion neces- sary is soon leartied by experience) is diluted with a little cream, and this ihixture is added to the rest of the cream when it enters the churn. So little of this colouring matter unites with the butter that it never communicates to it any peculiar taste. Many other colouring matters have been employed, as saffron and the seed of the asparagus. Beet, the marigold, and carrot are certainly the best, and it is the latter that is chiefly used by the best farmers. Alkanet root will give every shade of colour to butter, from the lightest rose to the deepest red, by augment- ing or diminishing the proportions of it. Though the milk of the cow, when fed on rich pasture during the summer months, is almost always found to produce butter of a rich yellow colour, this is by no means the case with every animal. The goat, the sheep, the mare, and the ass, fed on the same pasture in the same season, produce milk which yields butter always more or less white. When a cow has recently calved her milk is much yellower than usual, but this soon goes off. Some counties or districts are particularly famous for the excellency of their butter. That which is made in Essex, and well known under the name of Epping butter, is the most highly esteemed of any in London and its vicinity. In the more restricted use of this appellation it is only applied to the butter made from the milk of cows which are fed in Epping forest during the summer months, where the leaves and some par- ticular plants are thought to contribute to its superior flavour. In Somerset, butter of nearly the same excellency is made, but brought to market in half-pounds instead of pounds. The Cambridgeshire salt butter is held in the highest esteem, and the London cheesemongers, by wash- ing and detaching the salt from it, often sell it at a high price for fresh butter. It is made nearly in the same way as Epping butter, and, when salted, put up in firkins of 56 lbs. York- shire and Suffolk butter is very little inferior to that of Cambridgeshire, and is often sold in London for such. Uttoxeter, in Staffordshire, has long been famous for good butter. The London cheesemongers have a sort of factory there for this article. It is bought by the pot, of a cylindrical form, weighing 14 lbs. The superior excellence of the butter produced in the Highland districts of Scotland is well known. The same delicately-flavoured kind is said to be made on the mountains of Wales, and the heatbg and commons of England. Some of the best Irish butter brought to London, after being washed and repacked, is sold as Dorsetshii'e and Cambridgeshire butter. The salt butter of Hol- land is superior to that of any other country, and forms about three-fourths of all the foreign im- ported into Britain. Frauds and abuses of various kinds are prac- tised in the salting uud packing of butter, to in-BUT BUT [ 186 ] crease its bulk and weight. Pots are frequently laid with good butter for a little way at the top, and with bad at the bottom. Sometimes the butter is placed in upright rolls, touching one another above, so as to form a uniform surface, but receding so as to leave empty spaces below. Sometimes tallow or hog's lard is found to con- stitute no small proportion of what the purchaser deemed good butter. BUTTER, ALMOND. Put 1 pint of cream on a slow fire, with 8 eggs well beaten and strained; stir them one way till they are ready to boil; put in a glass of rich, sweet wine, and continue stirring till it comes to a curd. Strain off the whey, pound the curd with 9 ozs. of almond paste and 3 ozs. of sugar, put it into potting-pans, or turn it out of moulds. To be eaten with bread as sweet zests. BUTTER BISCUITS. Make a paste as for Sweet Biscuits, and when you have put in the flour pour over it 8 ozs. of melted butter after it has cooled a little; mix them together a short time with a wooden spoon, and put it into buttered moulds, which must only be filled three parts, as the paste puffs up considerably, and would rise from the mould without care. BUTTER, BLACK. Use 3 lbs. of fruit (currants, gooseberries, raspberries, and cherries) to 1 lb. of coarse sugar, and boil till quite thick. It must waste to half the quantity. BUTTER, BORDERS OF. Take ilb. of fresh butter, work it up well with a knife, mix- ing with it either of the following colouring materials :—For rose colour, a little infusion of carmine or any vegetable red; green, spinach- juice ; yelloiv, an infusion of saffron; violet, a little Prussian blue added to the red ; orange, the red and yellow joined together. Take some of either colour, and spread it equally over two saucepan-lids, laying it about three-eighths of an inch in thickness. Place the lids on pounded ice, and when the butter is congealed remove it with the blade of a knife, and lay it on a napkin; then, with a tin paste-cutter, or stamp of what- ever figure you may choose, cut the butter, and place the figures in borders according to your fancy. Take care to dip your stamp in cold water frequently, as that will enable you to keep the edges of the butter sharp. BUTTER CAKES. See Cakes, Butter. BUTTER, CLARIFIED. Set it before the fire, and when it melts (if it has the least taint put into it a very nice well-browned toast or some lumps of charcoal; stir it about some time in it) let it settle. Do not strain it un- less it is absolutely necessary, as it would require a sweetmeat sieve, and that only tends to waste. Pour it clear off into a jar, let it cool, and put on a fitted cover with a bit of linen to prevent the introduction of air; if salt it may or may not be washed before it is melted according to the uses to be made of it. BUTTER, CURLED. To an iron hook in the wall tie two comei-s of a strong napkin; make a knot with the other two ends, so as to be able to pass a stick through it. Put into this napkin ^ lb. of butter, and twist it tightly over a dish, into which the butter will fall in very small and pretty strings to serve for a side-dish. BUTTER DROPS. Take three eggs, leave out half the whites; J lb. of flour; ^ lb. of sugar; J lb. of butter; two spoonsful of rose water; a little mace and seeds. BUTTER, FAIRY. Beat the yolks of two hard eggs in a mortar, with a large spoonful of orange-flower water, and 2 spoonsful of fine sugar; beat all to a fine paste. Add an equal quantity of butter, fresh from the chum, and force all together through a fine strainer, full of little holes, into a plate. BUTTER AND FENNEL. Wash some fennel very clean, and pick it leaf by leaf; put 1 tea-spoonful of salt into i pint of boiling water; boil the fennel about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve; mince it quite fine; and bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depends upon the fennel being minced very fine; put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it, by degrees, about i pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the fennel will add to its thickness. Never pour fennel and butter over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. BUTTER, FRESH: To Keep. To keep fresh butter, when fresh brought in, cover it with a sheet of white paper, and put it in a dark place, which must be free from mouldiness or confined air. Print no more at a time than what is to be used, as the more surface is exposed, the more liability there will be to spoil. The Scotch, after making excellent butter, often spoil it by print- ing it, and putting it into a weak pickle of salt and water. The surface, in a day or two, becomes clear and rancid, and, were it left long enough in the salt and water, though repeatedly changed, the whole mass would become equally corrupted. If fresh butter is in the least tainted, either in smell or taste, filter some charcoal or lime-water; boil in a wooden or earthen spoon and basin; put the butter in the water; spread it thin, but do not work it much; lay a bit of white paper, or turn a sweetmeat sieve over it; leave it some hours; taste if it is recovered; if not, leave it all night; work it in milk or water; beat and make it up. BUTTER, MELTED. If it is melted to make up different sauces, which is by far the easiest way where there is much to do, the butter ought to be fresh^ or washed from the salt, and melted with very little liquid. Use a very littLBUT t 18T ] BUT milk, and as much flour as it will liquefy; add the butter in pieces, and keep turning it round in one direction, and in one direction only, till perfectly smooth: this -will save the trouble of rubbing flour and butter together for each sauce, and waiting for its cooking; and, with glaze-stock and cream, willeuable the cook, in a short time, to serve as many different sauces as she may have occasion for:— Dust a little flour over Jib. of butter; put it into a saucepan with about a wine-glassful of water; stir it one way constantly till it is melted, and let it just boil (a round wooden stick is the best thing to stir butter with in melting). If the butter is to be melted with cream, use the same proportion as of water, but no flour; stir it con- stantly, and heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil. To oil butter, cut about i lb into slices ; put it into a small jar, and place it in a pan of boiling water. When oiled pour it off clear from the sediment. BUTTER, MELTED (French). Mix in a stewpan, with :|lb. of fresh butter, 1 table-spoon- ful of flour, a little salt, i gill of water, i spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it on the fire, stir it, and let it thicken, but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste of the flour. BUTTER, MELTED (with Water). Break the butter into small lumps with as much water as will make it the richness required, from ^ gill to 1 pint to 1 lb.; dust in the flour; the more flour the more water required ; turn it one way till perfectly smooth and the flour well cooked, as nothing is so bad in sauce as ill-cooked flour. Should the butter oil, which will happen either from inattention or from being ill washed, it must be again put upon the fire, and well worked by lifting it with the spoon and letting it fall, —what the French call vanner. This must be done at the moment of serving, as it will soon return to oil. BUTTER, MONTPELIER. Put the yolks of 12 hard eggs into a mortar with I scalded green shallot, 6 anchovies, a handful of capers picked and washed, 6 pickled cucumbers, some pepper and salt. Pound all these well together until they form a paste ; then add the yolks of S raw eggs, bruising them with a pestle, and then gradually pour upon and mix with your ingredients 1^ lb. of oil of olives, and a little vinegar, until the whole becomes of the con- sistence of new butter; then pass it through a sieve. If your butter is not sufficiently green yoix must add a little spinach-juice. Montpelier butter is commonly used for cold entrees. A little garlic may be added according to taste. BUTTER MOULD. The wooden stamps for forming small pats of butter are well known. One represents a swan, the butter moulded in •which will keep itself erect upon the water in the butter-glass or dish. The mould is usually made of box-wood, and may be purchased at the turner's. In using it the interior should bo wetted with cold water; the butter next pressed in, the mould then opened, and the perfect swan taken out, and set upon a flat piece of butter, to keep it upright in the water, when it forms a very pretty table ornament. BUTTER, ORANGE. Peel 6 oranges and boil the skins till they are clear; pound and rub them through a sieve; beat the yolks of 20 eggs and 4 whites ; put them into 2 quarts of boiling cream; stir it one way till it comes to a curd. Strain, beat it in a mortal", and put in as much orange-rind as will give it a sufficient relish, and sweeten it; put it in a mould or in small pots. This may be made of artificial cream, and baked as cheesecakes, adding wine or brandy. BUTTER AND PARSLEY. Wash some parsley very clean, and pick it carefully leaf by leaf; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water; boil the parsley about ten minutes ; drain it on a sieve; mince it quite fine and then bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depends upon the parsley being minced very fine; put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it by degrees about half a pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the parsley will add to its thickness. Never pour parsley and butter over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. BUTTER, PICKLE FOR. To 3 gallons of water add 4|- lbs. of good brown sugar, 1^ oz. of saltpetre, 1 oz. of carbonate of pot- ass ; put them into an iron pot and let them come to a boil; take off the scum; when cold it is ready for use. The butter should be salted in the usual way and well worked; then made into rolls of 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. each. Have little bags of coarse muslin ; tie each roll in a bag and put them in a large stone jar or clean firkin; when the pickle is entirely cold pour it over and put a plate on the top, with a weight on it to keep the butter under; tie it up close and keep it in a cold place. When a roll is wanted take it out of the bag and slice it off for table use. It should be put on little plates, and each covered with a saucer to exclude the air. If the butter is good when put up in the fall, it will keep till you can get grass butter in the spring. The jars for this purpose should not have been previously used for pickles. BUTTER, PRESERVED. Take 2 parts of the best common salt, 1 part of good loaf sugar, and 1 part saltpetre; beat them well together. To 16ozs. of butter, thoroughly cleansed from the milk, put 1 oz. of the above composition ; work it well, and put it in pots when quite firm and cold.BUT [ 188 3 BUT BUTTER, SALT: To Feeshen. To every pound of butter put 1 quart of new milk and a little anotta; churn them together till the milk breaks ; wash and make up. The butter gains 8 ozs., and is equally good, and perhaps better than winter fresh butter. If the butter were first washed with water to take out the salt, the buttermilk would be then fit for use. If it does not answer so well, which we are not aware of, use the salt buttermilk for making potato-cheese, even should there be pigs, as the whey, if boiled, will be of more service to them than the raw milk. It will also make good pudding. BUTTER, SALT: To Preserve. When the winter store of salt butter arrives the first thing to be done is to turn out the whole mass from the tub, or whatever it is sent in, and with a clean knife to scrape the outside; then wipe the tub with a clean cloth, and either sprinkle it all round with salt, or make a mild brine of salt and water boiled; allow it to get cold, and put it in a tub; then replace the butter, and keep the lid on to exclude the air. From a waat of proper cleanliness in the dairymaid in the first instance the outside of the butter which comes in contact with the vessel acquires a ran- cid taste, which gradually affects the whole mass unless the above-named precautions are used. BUTTER SAUCE. Pound a few cloves and garlic, pass them through a double-hair sieve into an earthenware pan; add some good olive oil; stir them together until they form a lump like butter. Salt it to your taste. BUTTER SAUCE (Burnt). Fry some butter; when it begins to smoke throw in some chopped parsley. When suffiaiently done add pepper, salt, and vinegai-. BUTTER, SQUIRTED, is a very pretty supper garnish for a dish, but requires to be very delicately used. It may be squirted lightly and handsomely as a garnish over lobster or crab, salad, ham, eggs, anchovy, or other zests, or in small, delicate tufts round any cold dish of sliced meat or collars, interspersed with parsley, fried crumbs, or lightly all over salmagundi; for these several purposes, and manj' others, it may be coloured and turned out in stars or flowers. It is a beautiful ornament to a table when used with taste, as it may also be flavoured with any sauce or spice, so as to take oS the buttery taste and raise the zest, coloured a deep yel- low, open like lace or spiral work over a white cold pillar with saifrjned eggs ; but if not done tastefully it becomes vulgar, and so with other things. Butter is sometimes used in garnishing dishes in the form of animals, fir trees, shells, Ac, which is not suitable. There are some things that will not be taken out of their sim- plicity without suffering in themselves and hurt- ing the eiiects of others. BUTTER AND SWEET HERBS. Take some chervil, half the quantity of pimpernel, chives, tarragon, and cress ; scald and chop the whole very small; then mix it with some good fresh butter. BUTTER, TAINTED : To Purify. Wash the butter through several waters, and put it on the fire in a melting-pan, and when it boils, which must be very slowly, skim it well; toast a slice of bread very brown, and leave it in the butter, or a stick or two of charcoal; leave it to simmer till it loses its taint. BUTTER, THICKENED. Melt what quantity of butter you may require ; be careful not to colour it; beat up the yolks of eggs and then pour them to the butter, beating them all the while. Put them on the fire ; add a little lemon-juice. BUTTER, TURNIP FLAVOURED: To Prevent. The week previous to giving cows turnips, when churning, save 2 or 3 quarts of buttermilk; the earthen pot in which the cream is itsually collected should be scalded, dried, and put before the fire to make it quite hot; when hot put the buttermilk into it, in order to make it sour: the morning and evening cream to be put to it, and then kept till churn- ing. A small quantity of saltpetre is then put into the cream. The same quantity of butter- milk to be saved every time after churning, and the same process repeated. The turnips to be well cleaned, tops and roots cut off, and no de- cayed turnips to be used on any account. When Swedish turnips are used we have found a pincli of pounded saltpetre, thrown into the pan when the milk is strained after milking, completely to prevent any disagreeable taste in the butter. BUTTERCUPS [Ranunculus acris). This, and all the other species of ranunculus, except the water crowfoot [R. aquatilis), are more or less acrid and poisonous. Mr. Hogg, in his " Natural History of the Vegetable Kingdom," says :— R. bulbosus, acris, sceleratus, fiamniula, awi- comus, thora, arvensis, and many others, have very powerful acrid properties ; and their fruits, when green, appear to be the parts in which this acridity is most intense. If the fresh-bruised leaves are applied to any part of the body a more or less active inflammation will soon appear, followed with hard swellings, which will speedily become a true blister. Recourse may, therefore, be had to these plants, as is the case in Norway and the Highlands of Scotland, when cantharides cannot be obtained, or when the irritant action of these on tender parts would be injurious. Taken internally the juice or extract of Ranun-. cuius acris causes an intense inflammation of the digestive organs, and if the dose has been con- siderable, it is a true acrid poison, followed by very serious results, and even death. The juice[ 189 ] BUT BUT of E. hulbosus applied to the nostrils causes sneezing, and a portion of the root has been found to act beneficially on the gum of an aching tooth. Haller informs us that the Swiss hunters chew B. alpestris as a restorative after fatigue, and as an antidote to giddiness ; and Withering states that in the case of poison having been taken, R.flammula, which produces instantaneous vomiting, is preferable to any medicine. With the juice of B. thora the Swiss hunters were wont formerly to poison their darts, by means of which the wounds inflicted on wild beasts were speedily fatal and incurable. The dis- tilled water of B. sceleratus is eminently acrid, and, when cold, deposits crystals, which have been found to be utterly insoluble, and of an inflammable nature; yet, notwithstanding its poisonous properties, it is eaten when cooked by the shepherds of Wallachia. BUTTERMILK is an excellent food for weak stomachs and children, yet it is generally given to the pigs. Fresh buttermilk, eaten with sugar and bread, is more agreeable than fresh cream, as it does not cloy; but it is not good with fruit; because, unless the stomach is extremely strong, it will turn immediately into a strong acid. Sometimes, however, a consump- tive patient's stomach is very strong, or rather requiring that sort of nourishment, yet it will not be so beneficial as if eaten separately in small quantities, this ailment requiring a con- stant feeding. If these milks are much sweetened with syrup, or capillaire, the patient will, in that case, be able to take more sugar, which is so renovating. Milk in every simple form cannot be too highly recommended as food for infancy, childhood, invalids, and old age. BUTTERMILK PUDDING. Having warmed 3 quarts of new milk, turn it with 1 quart of buttermilk. Drain the curd through a sieve, and when dry pound it in a marble mortar, with about ^ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a grated roll, also a grated nutmeg, 6 bitter almonds, 4 ozs. of warm butter, 1 tea- cupful of cream, the yolks of 5 and the whites of 3 eggs, 1 glass of wine, and another of brandy. Bake in small cups or basins well buttered, and if the bottom is not browned use a salamander. Serve them hot and with pudding-saiice. BUTTONS AND BUTTON-HOLES. But- tons upon shirts, and upon all other articles of wearing-apparel, should be put on with' great firmness and security, as it is no slight annoy- ance if, on putting on a fresh garment, one or more buttons should be found wanting. For the Bake of sti-ength, as well as of neatness, great care should be taken with the cutting and over- casting of button-holes. V/hen going to make a button-hole, fold the material in which it is to be made, to see that it is periectly even; then turn in the raw edges all round, double it, and tack it together slightly; cut it exactly to a thread, and its length must be proportioned to the size of the button which it is intended to receive. If you should have a row of button-holes to make, as in a waistcoat, for instance, when they would require to be all exactly even, then have a pair of those scissors which are made for the purpose; it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to cut several button-holes exactly even, regular, and alike, with common scissors. After you have cut the hole, hold it straight along the fore-finger of the left hand, and, confining it in that position by the thumb and middle finger, begin on the side farthest from the point of the finger, and work it from left to right, that is, from the thumb to the point of the finger ; put your needle in at the back, and bring it out in front, four or five threads below the edge. To make the stitch for forming the head of the button-hole, make the stitch by putting the needle through the loop of the thread before it is drawn close, keeping the hand upwards, so that the loop may lie along the edge of the button-hole. The needle must always be put in at the back, and never at the front of the loop. Leave between the stitches one thread. When the stitches are as near the end as pos- sible, take two stitches, as in common sewing, across to the other side, and then work two looped stitches at the end, and in the same direction as that in which the button-hole is cut. It is called barring. As the chief faults in a button-hole are its gaping and tearing at the corners, those faults are guarded against by this mode of working the ends, which require particular firmness and strength. Instead of barring, the button-hole may be worked completely round. The first side of the button-hole having been worked, work the other side in the same manner. For the following notes on the various kinds of buttons we are indebted to that excellent little book "The World in its Workshops :"— The fabrication of the gilt button preceded that of the covered, or Florentine, as it is technically called, and required a considerable amount of ingenuity to keep pace with the adaptation of tastes, which the caprices of fashion are ever and anon in the process of generating; but a greater amount of ingenuity was evoked when the covered button came into general use, as the old method of covering bone moulds by the hand with a needle and thread was superseded by the use of dies and the screw-press. The latter process not only effected a complete change in the manufacture of covered buttons, but it ma- terially enlarged its power, both in the variety and the extent of its productions. The first patent taken out for making covered buttons by dies and pressure-stands was in the name of Mr. B. Sanders, who removed from Birmingham toBUT BUT [ 190 ] Broomsgrove in order that he might conceal the process from the prying eye of his manu- facturing contemporaries ; but as he soldered iron shanks to the back of his covered buttons, it -was some time before the public became reconciled to them, from the general dislike to that form of shank. On the expiration of his patent, in 1828, Mr. Sanders cut away the iron shank, and substituted the present flexible or woven shank, for which he attempted to establish a patent; but the objections against it were so strong that it was refused, as the flexible shank, made of catgut, had been in use fifty years pre- ceding, the manufacturers of the gilt buttons having applied it. The rejection of this patent had the effect of opening the trade to the town of Birmingham, which has since become so im- portant, not only from the number of hands it employs, but also from the almost constant demand which it creates for ingeniously con- structed machinery. The material of which buttons are made is somewhat various, which gives rise to a sub- division of labour resembling other branches of manufacture. There is the well-known gilt button, plain and figured ; there are plated, silk, Florentine, and other covered buttons; pearl, horn, shell, bone, wood, glass, and porce- lain buttons. Most of these are made at Bir- mingham. We shall briefly describe the process of making a gilt button. The metal is a com- pound of copper, &c., rolled out to certain dimensions, and cut into blanks by the screw- press. Females generally, almost universally, perform this operation. Take, for instance, what is called a shell button, which is hollow, and made of two pieces of metal, one for the front and the other for the back. The button requires two blanks, one called the shell and the other the bottom. The shell is pressed to a convex shape by a machine similar in prin- ciple to the punching-press, but having a curved, polished surface to act upon the metal instead of a punch. The blanks, as they come from the punching-press, have a rawness of edge which re- quires to be smoothed to fit them for their after- appearance. This is done by turning them in a lathe. In order to bring the two parts of a shell button together they are subjected to the action of a die and punch, so peculiarly ad- justed that the edge of the shell becomes bent over and lapped down upon the bottom, securing the two together in'a way at once firm and neat, without the employment of any agent whatever. The surface of the button has sometimes a device upon it, which is produced by means of a die worked by the foot. The man places a button on the lower die, raises a heavy weight, to the lower part of which the upper die is attached, and allows it to fall with great force, by which the button becomes indented with the figure of the die. The shanking is rather a singular process. The shank is not made upon the pre- mises, being a distinct occupation; the machinery to twist that simple bit of wire is very expensive, therefore must be worked on a great scale to become profitable; so that one shank-twister supplies several button-makers. The shanks are made of brass wire, and vary from eight to forty gross per pound weight. The blank, or body of the button, being ready to receive the shank, a woman takes up the latter, and places it in the proper position on the button; at the same time she takes up a little piece of bent iron, capable of acting as a spring-clasp, which holds the shank tightly to the button; she then puts a piece of solder at the foot of the shank, which, when finished, is placed on an iron plate, and exposed to a heat in the furnace sufficient to melt the solder, and unite the shank firmly to the button. This process is performed with great celerity. The mode of silvering is as follows : The but- tons, after being thoroughly cleansed in an acid solution, are put into an earthen pan containing a dry mixture of silver, common salt, cream of tartar, and other trifling ingredients. The but- tons are well worked up with this mixture, and in the course of a minute or two the whole are coated with a clear and equable surface of silver. The gilding is rather complicated. It is neces- sary, also, to observe the distinction between yellow and orange gilding, the former being affected in colour by the previous use of a mixture called similor, made of zinc and mer- cury. Take an orange all-over, for example. When properly cleaned, they are placed in an earthen pan with quick-water and gold amal- gam, which chemically act upon each other. The gold is mixed up into a kind of paste with mercury, which, however, will not act upon the button unless a thin film of mercury be pre- viously deposited on the surface, and the quick- water, or gilder's aquafortis, a solution of nitrate of mercuiy, is used for that purpose. When mixed together in a pan, a chemical action is produced between the copper of the button and the mercury of the quick-water, and the required result ensues. The next object is to get rid of the mercury, which is effected by placing the buttons in an oven, and subjecting them to a strong heat, which causes the mercury to evapo- rate ; a careful arrangement of flues being adopted to carry the latter to condensing cham- bers, where it resumes its metallic form. Then succeeds the burnishing process, which is effected by placing each button upon a lathe, when the workman applies to it a blood-stone, which pro- duces a brilliant surface in a few seconds. We are indebted, in a great measure, to the Messrs. Elliott & Son for the preceding details, havingBUX BUT [ 191 J minutely examined their large and well-arranged establishment at Birmingham, where we received every courtesy and attention. In the same establishment we also observed the process of manufacturing Florentine buttons. Two circular bits of iron, a bit of pasteboard, a bit of thick canvass, and a bit of lasting or silk, are cut out by stamping each circular disc, and the mode of fixing these bits together is somewhat curious. There is no glue, riveting, screwing, plaiting, or other mode of fastening; all being fixed and adjusted by stamping or pressure. Within the outer cloth covering is an iron casing called the shell; within this is a disc of paper, then one of cloth, and at the back of all a disc of iron, having a hole in the centre, through which some of the canvass is forced, as a means for sewing the button on the garment. All these are placed, in their proper order, in a die, and a descending punch, worked by a press, first fixes the cover to the shell, and then these two to the other three bits, curling up the edges of the two discs of iron in such a way as to enable them to clasp all the five bits firmly, and to hide all imperfections on the edge. The internal mechanism of the presses, some of them being invented by Mr. Elliott himself, is exceedingly ingenious and effective. There are a great variety of covered buttons; but the main features in the manufacture are the punching out of separate little discs, and the fixing of these by pressure. We believe we are indebted to the same firm for the white linen buttons, one of the recent novelties of in- dustrial art. They consist of a tin or white metal ring, over which a disc of linen is stretched, and the mode of fixing them together by the press is singular and ingenious. All these operations are performed with incredible rapidity by females; and although to put together a single button fourteen pair of hands and a number of machines are employed, a set of fourteen buttons can be sold for Id. or Hd. One of the most recently-invented methods of making covered buttons has been patented by Messrs. Chatwin and Sons, of Birmingham. The ingenuity is not the only recommendation of this new mode; it is also more economical in the use of material than the one it is fast super- seding. The covering for the front of the button is kept down by turning over the circumference of the shell upon which it is placed, then the latter is forced through a machine which fixes the covering upon its surface, instead of placing the covering between the back and front parts, according to the ordinary method. There is a saving of about one half the silk in this in- vention. These manufacturers have also intro- duced another improvement which is equally deserving of notice. A braiding, or edged border, is made round the button, which not only adds to its appearance, but protects the surface from so readily wearing out. A great improvement has also been effected in the de- signs for woven fabrics used in the manufacture of buttons. Ten or twelve years ago the woven figure of a flower for the centre of a button would have comprised merely the outline of two or three leaves and a small dot in the centre ; but the weavers of Spitalfields have been stimu- lated to such an extent, that in the woven designs for small buttons even the minutest point, or mark of the pencil, is now preserved, whether it be in satin or terry velvet. In this branch of manufactures ingenuity keeps pace with the growing wants of the age, as may be observed in the covering of nails for the general ornamentation of furniture, the old brass-headed nail being now but little used. These covered buttons are a great improvement, as they corre- spond with the material to which they are affixed, and prove that a more refined and subdued taste is gradually introducing itself. The manufacture of the pearl button is simple yet interesting. The button is placed in a lathe, and after passing through four or five operations is considered finished. The material of which it is made is brought from the Eastern Archi- pelago, principally from the coast of China. It resembles a large oyster-shell in almost every respect, and is found in considerable quantities in the eastern seas, being formerly brought home as ballast. But since the shell has been applied to the manufacture of buttons, a ton of them is worth about £19. The waste is considerable in the processes of the manu- facture of this kind of button. The horn- button is a distinct branch of manufacture. The hoofs of oxen, principally derived from South America, are boiled and cut into certain forms, which are punched with a screw-press into little circular pieces. These pieces are then dyed with logwood, which gives them a blue-black appearance, after which they aro sub- jected to a heavy pressure with a die, which stamps upon their surface a pattern. The dies in all the button-manufacturing establishments form a large item in the plant, their weight of metal, irrespective of the expense of cutting them, amounting in some instances to several tons. BUXTON WATER. Buxton, so celebrated for its medicinal springs, is a considerable vil- lage, situated in the north-western side of the county of Derby, on the borders of Cheshire, from which it is separated by a chain of lofty hills, intersected by deep ravines. The summits of these hills are bare, and their sides but thinly covered with verdure, giving to the face of the surrounding country a bleak and barren charac-CAB BUX [ 19^ ] ter, notwithstanding the fertility and beauty of the valleys. The climate is ungenial—the winter being severe, the spring tardy, and the sumnaer uncommonly rainy. With all these imperfections Buxton still possesses some advantages for the invalid, from the excellence of its accommoda- tions and roads; from the dryness of its soil, composed principally of limestone, which allows exercise immediately after rain; and from the turbulence even of its atmosphere, which pre- vents every mischief arising from stagnation of air. It has been long noted for its warm springs; and from the i-emains of Roman antiquity which have been discovered near it, it was probably in repute among the Romans. These springs issue to the day through small fissures in a hard, calcareous freestone. They are numerous, and supply a sufficiency of water for the la'^'ge con- sumption occasioned by the numerous baths, and the other purposes for which it is employed. The original fountain is St. Ann's Well, which is inclosed in an elegant stone building. The other springs are precisely similar in quality, and are received into a number of beautiful and convenient baths, both public and private. By evaporation to dryness Dr. Pearson found in a gallon of Buxton water only 14J grains of residuum, of which he estimates If grain to be muriate of soda, 2J grains to be sulphate of lime, and 10^ grains to be carbonate of lime. It had often been observed that in this spring a quantity of elastic fluid was discharged with the water, and that a portion escaped from the water itself on exposure. This was supposed to be carbonic acid; but Dr. Pearson ascertained it to be nitrogen gas, or azote, mixed with a little atmospheric air, the volume of air amount- ing to about l-64th of the water. Buxton water is thus remarkably pure, and differs from common spring water only in its temperature and the small quantity of azotic gas which it holds in solution. In sensible properties it cannot be distinguished from com- mon spring water, heated to the same tempera- ture. It is quite clear and colourless, does not become turbid on exposure to the air, leaves no deposit, and is entirely devoid of smell or taste. Its temperature in the gentlemen's bath is in- variably 82°. As this heat is several degrees below that of the human body, there is a slight shock of cold felt on the first immersion into the Buxton bath ; but it is succeeded almost immediately by a pleasurable and soothing glow. On account of the slightness of this shock this bath is well adapted to renovate the strength of delicate habits, and to prepare them for the mors powerful i-emedy of sea-bathing. For this pur- pose it should be used two hours before dinner, and gentle exercise in the open air should be taken after it. Buxton water is employed largely both in external and internal use. As an internal remedy it has afforded considerable relief in defective digestion and derangement of the ali- mentary organs, consequent upon a life of high indulgence and intemperance, and in painful affections of the kidneys and bladder connected with the formation of calculus. It appears to produce various effects on the bowels; not un- frequently a diarrhoea, or looseness, succeeds, for a few days, its use; but more commonly consti- pation follows. The former is a salutary symp- tom, and must not be checked. The latter is injurious, and must be removed by aperient medicines, especially in those habits where the action of the alimentary canal is naturally slug- gish. Two glasses of about a third of a pint each, before brealifast, with a little gentle exer- cise interposed between, and the same quantity repeated between breakfast and dinner, form a proper course of Buxton water, which must be continued according to the duration of the disease. 0. CABBAGE: To Boil. Having cut your cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of water, with a handful of salt. When it is tender drain it on a sieve, but never press it. Savoys and greens are boiled in the same manner, but they should always be boiled by themselves. A tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda in the water makes them of a good green colour. You may, if you please, chop it and beat it with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. CABBAGE AND BACON. Blanch a cab- bage, cut it in quarters, and put it into a stew- pan, with a piece of streaked bacon ; season it, moisten with water, and give it a boil; then let it stew over a moderate fire. When done dress the cabbage on a dish, with the bacon over it; reduce the liquor, and add to it a little butter, worked with some flour, and then serve it over the bacon and cabbage. CABBAGE BOILED AND STEWED. Cabbages are generally siraply tied round and' boiled. If you wish to stew them, cut a cabbage into four; boil it a quarter of an houi", with a piece of streaked bacon cut into bits, and the rind on. Afterwards change it in cold water, squeeze it well, and tie each quarter, that it may keep its form. Then stew it with some stock, salt, and pepper, a bunch of parsley and green onions, cloves, a little nutmeg, 2 or 3 roots, and the meat you intend to serve with it. When both the meat and cabbage are done wipe off the grease, and dish it for table (the streaked bacon on it), and serve with a sauce of good cullis, agreeably seasoned. The different pai'ta[ 193 I CAB CAB of meat that cabbages are best boiled with are veal tendons, breast of beef, a bit of round of beef, pork chitterlings, a shoulder of mutton boned and tied into a round, or a trussed capon. Whatever meat the cabbage is stewed with should be previously boiled a few minutes in water to take off the scum. CABBAGE AND CHEESE SOUP. Cut a large cabbage into quarters, and after blanch- ing boil it in water; when three parts done add ^ lb. of butter and the requisite seasoning. Grate ^ lb. of Grujere or Parmesan cheese. Prepare, also, some very thin slices of bread, and, two hours before dinner, make the soup in the following manner:—Take a metal or earth- enware tureen that will stand the fire and that can be used at table; first put into it a layer of grated cheese, then one of cabbage leaves, previously boiled and dried on a clotli; next some of the slices of bread, then those of cheese, commencing again with cabbage, &c., alter- nately, the upper layer of all being of sliced cheese. Having thus filled the tureen within two fingers' width of the top pour on its contents about ^pint of water in which the cabbages, after being blanched, were boiled, making the cabbage broth penetrate to the bottom of the tureen by piercing its contents several times with a knife; then place the tureen on a stove of moderate heat, letting the soup simmer, without stirring, for more than an hour. When the soup is ready for table the cabbage broth will have been all absorbed; some persons, consequently, add more hot broth to it at the moment of serving; but the ti'ue method of serving it d la Provengale is to send it up dry, using with it at table only the finest oil. CABBAGE CREAM. Put a gallon of milk over the fire, and skim it as long as any froth rises; then emj)ty it into eight or ten bowls as fast as you can without making any froth; then set them in a place where the wind may blow upon them. When the milk has rather cooled gather off the cream with your hands, gather it together, and lay it on a plate. When you have laid four or five layers one upon another, then dip a feather in rose water and musk, and stroke it over it; then sift some fine sugar and grated nutmeg over it, and lay on three or four layers more ; then set all the milk on the fire to boil again, and when it rises up distribute it as you did before in your bowls, and use it in the like manner. Do this four or five times, laying on the cream as before, one upon another, till it is as high and round as a cabbage. Let one of the bowls stand, because it will be thickest and most crumpled, and lay on that last on the top of all Strew pounded loaf sugar over the whole and serve. CABBAGE, FLEMISH. Cut a cabbago into quarters, parboil, and then change it into cold water ; squeeze it, take out the heart, and tie it round ; then stew it with a piece of butter, some good stock, seven or eight onions, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt and coarse pepper. When almost done put in some vinegar, and when the whole is sufficiently cooked take a crust of bread rather larger than the palm of your hand, fry it in butter, and put it in the bottom of the dish, upon which place the cabbage and sausages, with the onions round, taking care that the fat be well dried off tho whole ; then skim the sauce, add a little cullis to it and serve it, neither too thick nor too thin. Pour over the whole. CABBAGE, GERMAN. Take some very small-headed cabbages, and, after blanching, cut them up rather small, and turn them a few times over the fire in a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of melted butter or lard. When nearly done moisten with a little giavy or jelly broth, and serve with bacon or sausasfes. CABBAGE AND MILK^SOUP. Boil a large white-hearted cabbage in water; when half done put to it J lb. of butter, seasoning to your taste. When it is well boiled take out three parts of the water, substituting the same quantity of boiling milk; pour it into the tureen after it has once boiled up, putting the cabbage into the tureen also. Serve quick. CABBAGE PUDDING. Take 2lbs. of beef suet, as much of the lean part of a leg of veal; take a little cabbage and scald it; then bruise the suet, veal, and cabbage together in a marble mortar. Season them with mace, nut- meg, gingei". a little pepper and salt, some green gooseberries, grapes, or barberries—in winter some verjuice. Mix them all well together with the yolks of 4 or 5 eggs well beaten; wrap up all together in a green cabbage leaf; tie it in a cloth. An hour will boil it. CABBAGE RAGOCT. Scald one cabbage cut in quarters (Savoys are best); drain the water quite out, tie them with packthread, and braze in a good braze. Serve with a fine thick cullis sauce, well seasoned with pepper. CABBAGE, RED (Flemish). Take two red cabbages and cut them in quarters ; take out the hearts and cut them in pieces; blanch them, then put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a bay leaf, an onion stuck with cloves, some salt and pepper; stir them about, so that the cabbage may be well mixed with the butter. Place your stewpan on the fire, put fire upon the lid of the stewpan; let it simmer three or four hours; turn the cabbage frequently, and be careful not to let it burn. When the cabbage.is done take out the bay leaf and onion; add a little more butter, and serve hot.C ] CAB CAB CABBAGE, RED (Pickled). Slice your cabbage thin; then lay it in salt for twenty-four hours, strain it very dry, and put it in a stone jar with allspice, mace, and ginger. Boil your vinegar, and put it on boiling hot; tie it very close, repeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit for use. CABBAGE, RED (Stewed) (1). Boil your cabbage for a short time, then take out the heart, and cut it into pieces; then put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, and let it stew over a moderate fire, stirring it very frequently whilst dressing to mix it well with the butter. CABBAGE, RED (Stewed) (2). Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stewpan with a small slice of ham and i oz. of butter at the bottom, ^ pint of broth, and 1 gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. CABBAGE, RED (Syktjp of). Cut and wash a large red cabbage, put it into a stewpan, and boil it in water three or four hours till there remains no more than a pint of liquor; put the cabbage in a sieve, squeezing it till you have expressed all the juice; let it settle and pour it off clear; then put 1 lb. of honey into a saucepan with a glass of water; let it boil, skimming it often. When the honey is very clear put it to the cabbage juice, and boil them together till of the CMisistence of syrup, like all others. CABBAGE SALAD. Boil a Savoy cabbage in water; drain, and dress it as you would a salad, with salt, pepper, some Provence oil, and vinegar, adding one or two anchovies and a few capers. It may be served either hot or cold. CABBAGE SOUP. Put into your pot a few pounds of sliced beef and bits of ham ; let it catch a little ; then add weak broth or water, and all sorts of roots, a cabbage tied and well scalded, a bit of pickled pork, a bay leaf or mignonette. If you would garnish this soup with any wild fowl, boil it in the same pot, and garnish the dish with the cabbage and the pickled pork, cut in pieces. CABBAGE SOUP (German). Cut in small pieces and wash the heart of a fine cabbage, and set it over a slow fire in a little butter. When the pieces begin to feel tender and the butter is a little reduced, add some stock and veal gravy in equal quantities ; skim carefully, and when the soup has become of a brown colour throw in little round and thin pieces of bread. Season to your taste, and serve. CABBAGE, STEWED Blanch two mid- dling-sized cabbages in water with a little salt, when they have been twenty minutes in the boiling water take them out and put them into cold water; then let them drain; after this take out their hearts; then cut very small -^Ib. of veal and ^Ih. of bacon; add some salt, whole pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and allspice, all weU pounded; then add the yolks of 7 or 8 eggs, and mix the whole well together with the veal and bacon; put some of this stuffing into each of your cabbages, in the place of the hearts and tie them up with packthi'ead. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and slices of veal, a little ham, 3 carrots, 4 onions, a little thyme, a bay leaf, and 2 cloves ; then put in the cab- bages, cover them with bacon, and moisten with stock, adding a little salt and pepper; let the whole simmer for an hour and a half; then let them drain on a napkin, and extract the gravy from them by gently pressing them; then untie and arrange them on a dish ; glaze them, and serve a Spanish sauce all over them. If you do not happen to have any Spanish sauce ready make a light roux, and moisten it with the liquor in which your cabbages were dressed. Strain it through a silk sieve, and then pour it over the cabbages. CABBAGE, STUFFED. Blanch a large Savoy cabbage, and then put between its leaves some forcemeat, made of any cold meat you may have in the house, adding an equal quantity of sausage, some pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a small handful of boiled rice. When you have put into the cabbage as much stufi&ng as it will contain tie it well with packthread. Next make a roux with some butter, flour, and stock, properly seasoned; beat up the cabbage in this roux, being careful that it does not break. Keep adding stock from time to time, so that the cabbage may always be covered. When it is perfectly done serve it in a deep dish in its soup. CABBAGE IN SURPRISE. Take a good whole cabbage, and, having boiled it a quarter of an hour, put it into cold water and squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves; then care- fully take out the heart, and supply the place with parboiled chestnuts and sausages, replacing the leaves in such a manner as to conceal that which is within; tie the cabbage with packthread, and stew it in some stock, a little salt, and coarse pepper, roots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. When done draw, and serve with a good butter sauce. CABIN. In these days some members, if not all the members, of a family, usually have occasion to undertake a long sea voyage, and as it is usually quite a new mode of life, we will, from experience, detail what we know to be most desirable in fitting up a cabin for the occnsinnCAB CAE C 195 ] Our details are from experience during Indian voyages in sailing ships, but they are equally applicable for voyages to New Zealand and Australia. The poop-cabins are considered to be the best. They are those of which the flooring is on a level with the quarter-deck, and they are usually fitted up more elegantly than the others. Of these the most desirable are the two stern- cabins, for they have windows which rarely re- quire to be closed, even in the stormiest weather. They are the most fashionable, and, in addition to the advantage of elevation, insuring a some- what freer circulation of air, they are kept more out of the reach of the waves which break against the sides of the ship. In the largest class vessels on the outward- bound voyage, when they are usually very lightly freighted, the two stern-cabins on the gun-deck are the most comfortable. On the homeward- bound voyage it is different, for then, the vessel being generally deeply laden, the windows of the lower stern-cabins are brought so near to the waves that the dead lights are necessarily put in during all rough weather. They are the largest, coolest, and most quiet; their superior coolness to those above them is caused by the latter protecting them from the direct rays of the sun; and their greater quietude arises from their having, like those above, no thoroughfare past them; and also because the upper cabins, I having for their ceiling the floor of the poop, which is the chief promenade of the ship, are liable to constant noise from the feet of the i walkers ; and when it is scoured with the holy- stone the noise is stunning. Of the side cabins on the gun-deck those nearest to the stern are to be preferred; for although the passengers in those about mid- ships are somewhat less sensible of the vessel's pitching, yet they are very much more incom- \ moded by the noise of the crew, the stench of the animals, &c. Besides, it is the ship's heel- I ing over before a side wind that is generally far more inconvenient than the pitching. As to the preference to be given to the starboard or larboard sides of the ship, the wind, in the out- ward passage, is mostly on the latter until the Cape is past, after which it is chiefly on the starboard side; consequently, it is wise to select the latter, for it will be found, towards the end j of the voyage, that every possible means of ' keeping the passengers cool is desirable. When expense is a secondary consideration for a married couple two cabins are very much to be preferred. In an outward voyage choose the two stem-cabins on the gun-deck; and during the homeward passage one of the stem and one of the awning-cabins on the upper deck, one to be fitted up as abedrootu, the other as a parlour. The cabin being secured the next point is how to fit it up. For a single man a swing cot or a sofa is the first necessary; we recommend the former, because it accomodates itself to all positions of the ship, whereas on a sofa the sleeper will often awake in the morning, if it be placed as it should be—athwart ships—with his legs far above the level of his head, and, consequently, with the latter aching. A cabin chair, lamp, looking-glass, swing-tray, foot-bath, and washhand stand, are all that he will abso- lutely require, for the lid of the latter, when closed, will serve for a table. The floor should be covered entirely with oil cloth; it is much more cleanly than carpet, much cooler, and is not so slippery or difficult to walk upon. A sofa is a very great comfort, as is a chest of drawers; and the latter, so con- structed as to divide into two, will travel on land as conveniently as two trunks. A table, constructed so as to serve as a desk when de- sired, and fitted up accordingly, is also extremely useful. If a married couple occupy a cabin we re- commend two swing cots as well as a sofa; for a cot is not difficult to get into, and is incom- parably the most comfortable place of rest. Two cots swing very readily in the stern cabins. A book-shelf or shelves, in proportion to the number of books, should be screwed up athwart the ship, for a vessel never pitches sufficiently to dislodge a book so placed; whereas, if the shelves are parallel to the ship's length, every time she heels over, so that the books are on the more elevated side, they will fall from their places, unless secured in a way which renders reference to them difficult. A sofa should be fixed athwart the ship, for it is veiy easy to lie with the head at whichever end is highest. If it be placed fore and aft, that is, lengthways of the ship, the sleeper will be rolled on to the floor when the sofa is on the elevated side, or must be secured by a sideboard, which greatly increases the warmth of his rest ing-place. The importance of avoiding even this slight increase of temperature cannot be conceived by those who have not been becalmed in the vicinity of the equator. A cot is always slung from hooks fixed into the Jbeams of the cabin fore and aft. It must be remembered always to have the lashings as short as possible, for the longer these are, the more freely the cot swings to and fro. If economy be an object do not employ an outfitting warehouseman more than is absolutely necessary, either to supply your wardrobe or to furnish your cabin. For the latter purpose, devote a day to going to the East India Docks, while the ship is lying there, and you will find nimierous little upholsterers who live chieflyCAB [ 196 ] CAB by furnisliing cabins; and will there tave the advantage of not only selecting what best suits your purpose and taste, but you will obtain the articles for one-fifth less than would be charged by an outfitter. After you have made your purchases the upholsterer will accompany you on board, and not only receive directions, but offer suggestions as to the arrangement of the furniture. The best rule to follow in judging of the linen necessary for each person is, to multiply the number required weekly of each article by 20— the probable number of weeks the passage will occupy—and this will leave some to spare on arrival; for although you may very soon get a few articles washed, yet it is some days, perhaps, before the linen can be obtained from the ship. If you touch and remain at the Cape a few days, it is easy to get washed a few clothes which may be requisite; for although it would be dangerous to trust linen to a washerwoman unrecommended, yet any respectable person in Cape Town will procure for the inquirer a trust- worthy person, and we have found them punctual in delivering the linen on the day appointed. It is right to observe, however, that from the short time which can be allowed, it cannot be bleached, and, consequently, is invariably of a bad colour. In addition to the body, bed, and toilet linen usually required by each person, there are some articles which must be added. These are 6 pairs of mosquito-drawers, which are very comfort- able to sleep in dui'ing the hottest period of the "voyage; 12 pairs of Irish linen, or white jean trousers—if flannel is worn next the skin, which should always be the case, the first is to be pre- ferred; 12 ditto jackets; 12 ditto waistcoats; 2 suits (jacket, waistcoat, and trousers) of blue camlet, to wear during the voyage. These are of the greatest use. One bag for dirty linen, or, which is better, deep baskets, such as those made in India, with the lid fastening down with a padlock, and usually to be met with at shops near the East India Docks. For packing clothes in, of course sny strong b'jxes may be employed ; but, if any have to be purchased, it is best to have the bullock-trunks, which may be obtained at any outfitting ware- house ; a looking-glass, with a sliding wooden guard ; 3 lbs. of Windsor soap ; 6 lbs. of short wax candles; a'Wooden bucket and rope to draw water for bathing ; a tin japanned water-can with a cover, to get the ship's allowance each day of fresh water for toilet purposes, and three or four boxes of lucifer matches. If a child be of the party and a lamp is required all night, 1 gallon of lamp-oil in a tin bottle, and a lamp- feeder must be taken, as well as double the number of lucifer matches. Several brass hooks fixed around the cabin will be found very con- venient. The following are the highest prices that will have to be paid, if the articles be bought at the upholsterers' near the docks :— £ s. d. Swing cot and screws - • -10 0 Mattress, bolster, pillow - .-1150 Two blankets and one quilt - -10 0 A bullock trunk • - . . 1 15 0 A looking-glass - - .-090 Sofa, with drawers under, and chintz cover - - - - --550 Pillow, counterpane, and blankets, as before Washhand-stand and pewter service 2 0 0 A leather brush-case and blacking - 1 5 0 Cabin lamp - -- - - - 0 12 0 Folding chair 0 8 0 Foot-bath 0 7 0 Bucket and rope - - .-050 Swing tray 0 10 0 Mahogany chest of drawers, brass- bound, dividing into two parts .500 Book-shelf 0 7 0 Those who intend to become housekeepers in India should take out with them table cutlery and china, for everything of this description is enormously dearer there than in England. CABOBS, BALL. Pound the meat, fat and lean, with a sufficient quantity of onions, garlic, curry powder, pepper, and salt. Mix all well together, make it up into balls, and fry them in butter. Serve them in a heap upon buttered or carried rice, or in a curried sauce on fried bread or parsley, or almost in any way, with plain boiled rice in another dish. CABOBS, CURRY.' Cut the meat into small, equal pieces, and thread them upon silver skewers, intermixed with garlic and onions; rub them over with ginger, sprinkle with vine- gar, dust them over with a little curry powder, and fry them in butter. CABOBS OF OYSTERS. Any of these different things must be properly cooked by themselves, excepting the fruit, which must be used raw. Make them as nearly of a size as possible, and thread them alternately in proper mixtures upon silver skewers in the following manner :—An oyster, a bit of liver, a bit of sweetbread, and so continue till the skewer is filled; or truffle, tongue, liver, calf's foot, mushroom, cockscomb, sturgeon, palate, morel, crayfish, sweetbread. To any of these may be added: apple, artichoke bottoms, cucumber or dried fruits, in which case a little sugar is to be added or Parmesan. This is an excellent dish, made up nicely of little remains that could not be presented alone; besides, there is no trouble, as they are all properly cooked. Hang these cabobs on a bird S})it, and baste them with butter and proper seasoning; or dip them in egg and butter, and baste them with crumbs mixed with truffle or mushroom, parsley, burnet. ICAK CAC [ 197 ] onion, garlic, or any other powder. Fry them in butter. Dish them in parsley over spinach in any rich sauce, or stick tliem into cold dressed dishes as a garnish. CACAO. Cacao, or chocolate, a kind of cake or hard paste the basis of which is the pulp of the cacao, or chocolate-nut, a production of the West Indies and South America. The cacao tree (Theobvoma cacao), both in size and shape, somewhat resembles a young cherry tree, but separates into four or five stems. The leaves are about four inches in length, smooth, but not glossy, and of a dull green colour. The flowers are saffron-coloured and beautiful. The fruit resembles a cucumber in shape, but is furrowed deeply. Its colour while growing is green, but as it ripens it changes to a fine bluish red, almost purple, with pink veins ; or, in some of the varieties, to a delicate yellow or lemon. Each of these pods contains from twenty to thirty nuts, or kernels, which in shape are like sweet almonds, and consist of a white and sweet pulpy sub- stance in a parchment-like shell. These are the cacao or chocolate-nuts. Plantations of cacao are numerous on the banks of the river Mag- dalena, in South America. They are usually formed in morassy situations, and are sheltered from the intense heat of the sun by larger trees, which are planted with them. There are two principal crops of cacao in the year: the first in June, the second in December. As soon as the fruit is ripe it is gathered and cut in slices, and the nuts, which are at this time in a pulpy state, are taken out and laid in skins or on leaves to be dried. They have now a sweetish, acid taste, and may be eaten like any fruit. When perfectly dry they are put in bags for exportation. Previously to being formed into chocolate these nuts are generally toasted, or put over the fire in an iron vessel, after which process their thin external covering is easily separated. The kernel is then pounded in a mortar, and subsequently ground on a smooth, warm stone. Sometimes a little anotta is added, and, with the aid of water, the whole is formed into a paste. This is put while hot into tin moulds, where in a short time it congeals, and in this state it is chocolate of the shops. In South America and Spain other modes are adopted; the chocolate is mixed with sugar, long pepper, vanilla, cinnamon, cloves, almonds, and other ingredients, according to the taste of the respective customers. Edwards was of opinion that the cakes of chocolate used in England were made of about one-half genuine cacao, and the remainder of flour or Castile soap. That from Caraccas is considered the best. By the natives of South America the chocolate-nuts are used as food. A white, oily matter, about the consistence of suet, is also obtained by bruising them and boiling tho pulp. The oil is by this means liquefied and rises to the surface, where it is left to cool and congeal that it may be easily separated. This, which is called batter of cacao, is without smell, and when fresh has a very mild taste. Its principal use is as an ingredient in pomatums. From the nuts, when slightly roasted, oil is sometimes obtained by pressure. CAJEPUT OIL. This is obtained by distil- lation from the dried leaves of the cajeput tree (Melaleuca cajeputi), a native of the Molucca Islands. It is green, very limpid, smells like camphor, and has a pungent taste like that of cardamoms. It is highly stimulating, and is ad- ministered in hysteria, epilepsy, flatulent colic, and paralysis of the tongue. The dose is from 1 to 4 drops on a lump of sugar. In acute rheumatism and the gout this ethereal oil has been known to afford immediate relief, when the affected part has been anointed with it, as it has a remarkable tendency to open the pores. It is also highly beneficial in violent headaches when applied to the temples or inhaled through the nostrils. But its most remarkable efi"ect is in that painful complaint—the toothache. From whatever cause this affection may proceed, whether from a carious or hollow tooth, rheu- matic acrimony, catarrh, &c., the cajeput oil has generally been found efBcacious in removing it, if dropped on lint and placed in the cavity of the tooth, or even around the gum. Hence it deserves to have a place in the medicine chest of every private family. In acute rheumatisms, however, we would observe that it ought to be administered with circumspection; but, when applied in painful chronic disorders, or paralytic complaints, its use may be attended with salutary consequences. CAKES. In the manufacture of cakes it is indispensable that all the ingredients should be heated before they are mixed; for this pur- pose everything should be prepared an hour before the time it is wanted, and placed near the fire or upon a stove—the flour thoroughly dried and warmed ; the currants, sugar, caraway seeds, and anything else required, heated in the same way ; butter and eggs should be beaten in basins fitted into kettles or pans of warm water, which will give them the requisite degree of temperature. Without these precautions cakes will be heavy, and the best materials, with the greatest pains, will fail to produce the desired results. Have your pans buttered, your sugar and flour sifted and weighed, your butter washed and weighed, your eggs counted ready to bo broken, the spices and fruit all ready. Uso wooden or earthen in preference to tin vessels to make your cake in. Put your eggs into cold water some time before[ 198 ] CAK CAK breaking them. They will heat to a finer froth and in a shorter time when cold. In summer put them into water with a little ice. It is better to beat them in a cold place rather than a hot room. All cakes are decidedly lighter if the whites and yolks are beaten separately. It is well always to require this to be done. Beat the yolks well, adding gradually the sugar, where there is no butter to be used. But if butter is needed, work your butter to a cream, adding from time to time the sugar, until the quantity is used, then the yolks weU beaten, and lastly, the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Eveiy one will, we think, be sufficiently repaid for the time and trouble in so doing, by the finer quality of their cake. In mixing your cake do not use the hands if possible to avoid it, particularly in warm weather; the warmth of the hand will be apt to make your cake heavy. A wooden spatula cr spoon should be kept for this purpose alone. All cakes not made with yeast should be baked as soon as possible after they are mixed, as the ingredients are very liable to separate. Sugar should be rolled with a rolling-pin to a powder on a clean bread-board, and sifted through a fine hair sieve. Crushed white or loaf sugar must be used for sponge and pound cakes. Brown sugar, coarse grained, but clean, vfill answer for plum-cakes, and some of the cup and loaf cakes. Still these last are nicer made of crushed sugar. It can be purchased ready- powdered at the stores. Firkin butter should be cut in small pieces, well washed and drained before using it, or the cake will be heavy. Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar beaten in a mortar (marble if you have it) to a paste; then mixed with either wine, cream, or a little milk, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. The best way to give the lemon flavour to cake or custard is, to rub a piece of sugar some time over the rind of a fresh lemon ; the hard sugar tears the cells in which the oil of the lemons is inclosed, and the oil is attracted into the pores of the sugar. As the sugar is discoloured scrape it off with a knife, and it is well, perhaps, to dry this sugar before using it in delicate cakes. This can be kept in jars or bottles. Any oil or essencs to be added to cake should be dropped upon a lump of sugar, and then put into the dough to dissolve. Black or white plum-cakes require less butter and eggs for having yeast in them, and eat equally light and rich. If the dough be only of flour, milk, water, and yeast, it becomes more tough and is less easily divided than if the butter be first mixed with these ingredients, and the dough afterwards set to rise. Fresh eggs are required for nice white cakes. Sponge cake, Savoy biscuit, pound cake, and ladies' finger cakes should never be attempted without fresh eggs. Eggs kept in lime, or in any other preparation, will answer for simpler mixtures. Fruit is the last article to be added to cake, and immediately before putting it into the oven. Cask raisins should be washed before they are stoned, as also box raisins, unless very fresh. To stone them, cut them once or twice, and remove the stones. Some persons chop them very fine. It is well to prepare currants before they are needed. Wash them well in warm water, rub them between the hands, and then drain off the water. Continue to do this till the water is clear. Drain them in a cullender, spread them on a cloth on the table, and rub them dry with a cloth ; finish drying them in a vei7 gentle heat. If they are added to cakes or puddings damp they will make it heavy. Buttered paper should be put in the bottom and sides of pans when the cake requires a long baking; and paper not buttered is good for other cake to prevent burning. If the oven is too hot place a sheet of paper on the top of the cake to prevent the top from burning. The heat of the oven is of great importance in baking cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick the batter will not rise. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if the heat has become slack, the eake will be heavy. To know when it is well soaked take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, or a clean straw, plunge it into the centre, and di-aw it out instantly, and if there should be the least sticki- ness the cake is not cooked, and should be immediately returned to the oven. Saleratus or soda should be always kept, rolled and sifted, and when used for hot cakes should be dissolved in a very little warm, not hot water. Some people keep saleratus dissolved ready for use. Put as much saleratus in a bottle as will dis- solve when filled with water, using 2 table- spoonsful of the liquid instead of a tea-spoonful of powder. This answers better for hot cakes than for cup or loaf cakes. When eggs are broken be exceedingly careful that none of the yolk becomes mingled with the white. A very little of the yolk will sometimes prevent the wliite from foaming well. Take a cup, break the shell on it, allow the white to fall into it, and put the yolk in a bowl; transfer the white with an egg-beater or a loug-bladed knife. Hold the knife almost parallel with the dish ; give a quick, sharp stroke thi'ough the whole length; beat them in a cool place till you can cut the froth, or till it slides from your knife in one mass. It is better not to stop beating, when once begun, until you have finished, as it will become liquid, and cannot be restored; your cake will be heavy. 1CAE CaK [ 199 ] These directions are given to be applied to «a.ch of the following recipes, and are now given to avoid the useless repetition in each recipe. CAKE, ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat to a cream i lb. of fresh butter, and mix with it the same quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and 4 well-beaten eggs; add flour till thick enough to roll out; cut the paste into ob- long pieces about four or five inches in length; with a paste-cutter divide the centre into three or four strips; wet the edges, and plait one bar over the other so as to meet the centre ; throw them into boiling lard or clarified suet. When fried of a light brown, drain them before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, with or with- out grated loaf sugar strewed over them. CAKE, ABERFRAU. See Abeefeau. CAKE, ALBANY. Sift 3 lbs. of flour into a pan. Stir together 1 lb. of fresh butter and 1 lb. of brown sugar. Mix together 1 pint of West India molasses and ^ pint of rich milk. Have ready 1^ lb. of seeded raisins cut in two, and well dredged with flour to prevent their sinking. Beat 5 eggs very lightly, and mix them gradually with the milk and molasses, adding 1 glass of brandy and 1 table-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon. Add the mixture gradually to the beaten butter and sugar alternately with the flour, a little at a time of each; next stir in a small tea-cupful of strong, fresh yeast; then sprinkle in the raisins; lastly, stir in a very small tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, or a still smaller portion of saleratus, dissolved in as much lukewarm water as will cover it. Stir the whole mixture long and hard; cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise. When quite light butter a deep tin pan, put in the mixture, and bake it in a loaf. It will require very long and steady baking. Like all others that have yeast in them this cake is best when fresh. CAKE, ALLIANCE. Prepare your ingre- dients the same as described in the receipt for Parisian Cake ; then add J lb. of well-washed dry currants, 4 ozs. of muscatel raisins, 1 oz. of preserved cedrat, cut into small strips, 1 oz. of candied orange, cut in the same manner, and a glass of Spanish wine, or a glass of rum. Mix the whole together, and finish the same as for Parisian Cake, and let it bake three hours. This cake is very good eaten cold, but is much nicer cut into rather thin slices, and just browned by broiling, then placed upon a dish, and marked all over with powdered sugar. CAKE, ALMOND. See Almond Cake. CAKE, ANISEED. See Aniseed. CAKE, APPLE. See Apple Cakes. CAKE, BABA. See Baba. CAKE, BAIRN BRACK. To 3 lbs. of dried flour allow 1 lb. of fresh butter, 1 lb. of good brovm sugar, S ozs. of caraway seeds, 8 well- beaten eggs, 8 table-spoonsful of fresh yeast, and some grated nutmeg. Dissolve the butter in 1 pint of milk, so as to make the whole into a dough, not very stiff; work it well; cover it with a cloth, and set it before the fire to rise. When well risen bake it in a buttered tin. When it becomes dry it may be toasted, and eaten with butter. CAKE, BANBURY. See Banbury Cakes. CAKE, BATH. Rub into 2 lbs. of flour 1 lb. of butter, and mix with 1 pint of milk, a little warmed, J pint of fresh yeast, 4 well-beaten eggs, and 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Cover it, and let it stand before the fire to rise for three quarters of an hour. Make it into thick cakes about the size of the inside of a dinner plate; bake them in a quick oven; then cut them into three, that the middle slice, as also the top and bottom, may be well buttered. Serve them very hot. CAKE, BOLAR. Take 1 lb. of flour dried in a slow oven, 2 spoonsful of yeast, soma almond milk, and water, to mix for a sponge. When raised beat up f lb. of clarified butter, 3 eggs, and f lb. of sugar well beaten till the' spoon comes clean away; then add cinnamon powder, candied orange and lemon. Bake in earthen basins well buttered. Keep it before the fire till put in the oven. CAKE, BOLAR (Dutch). Make as above, without sugar; then prick holes with a sharp- pointed knife, and while it is hot pour in J lb; of clarified sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or orange flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are previously put in the cake. Ornament your cake with harlequin sugar-plums. This was a favourite cake of Queen Charlotte. CAKE, BONNET. Boil in i pint of water for ten minutes a bit of cinnamon and lemon- peel ; strain, and mix it with 3 table-spoonsful of flour, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes; add a bit of butter the size of a wal- nut. When cold mix in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, a little salt and pepper; beat it well; drop a dessert-spoonful of the mixture into boiling lard, then drain them upon the back of a sieve, and when served throw over pounded loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pepper a little preserve may be dropped upon each be- fore the sugar is thrown over. CAKE, BOSTON. Put 1 lb. of powdered white sugar into a deep pan, and cut up in it 1 lb. of fresh butter. Stir the butter and sugar together till perfectly light; then add a powdered nutmeg, a table-spoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon mixed together, and a large wine- glass of excellent brandy. If the brandy is of bad quality it will give the cake a disagreeable taste ;• if very good it will highly improve the flavour, and also add to the lightness of theCAE CAE [ 200 ] cake. Sift into a pan 1 lb. of flour; in another pan beat six eggs till very thiclc and smooth; stir them gradually into the butter and sugar alternately with the flour, and a pint of licli milk or cream, a little of each at a time. Have ready a level tea-spoonful, not heaped, of pearl- ash or saleratus (or a full tea-spoonful of bi- carbocate of soda), dissolved in as much warm water as will cover it. Add this at the last, and then give the whole a very hard stirring. Butter a large square pan, put in the mixture, set it immediately into the oven, and bake it thoroughly. It requires very long baking. A thick, square Boston cake will scarcely be done in less than three hours. At the end of the first hour increase the heat of the oven, and also at the second. When cool sift powdered sugar over it, and cut it into squares. If properly made, and well baked, following exactly the above directions, this cake will be found excel- lent, and will seem fresh longer than any other, the milk keeping it soft. Milk turned sour is very good for Boston cake, as by stirring the dissolved pearlash or soda in the milk the acidity will be entirely removed, and the alkali rendered more effective in increasing the lightness of the cake. Still great care will be necessary in baking it. The best confectioners make this cake every day without failure. CAEE, BOURNEVILLE. Work about ^Ib of flour, with 5 or 6 whole eggs, some finely- chopped lemon-peel, a few drops of orange-flower water, a spoonful of plain water, and a little salt; then let it rest about an hour. You will put about as much butter as paste, and work it afterwards well together. Bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you think proper with sugar, nonpareils, or colours. CAEE, BREAD. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough when making white bread, and knead well into it 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of Lisbon sugar, and 8 ozs. of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of 1 oz. of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream im- proves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. CAEE, BREAEFAST. Rub Hlb. of butter into i peck of flour, 3 lbs. of currants, | lb. of sugar, ^ oz. of mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg together, a little salt,' 1 i pint of warmed cream or milk, J pint of brandy, 5 eggs, 1 pint of good ale-yeast. Mix them well together. Bake it in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good a quarter of a year. CAEE, BRIDE. See Bbidecake. CAEE, BUTTER. Beat a dish of butter with your hands to a cream; add 2 lbs. of sifted sugar, 3 lbs. of dried flour, and 24 eggs. Leave out half the whites, and then beat all together for an hour. When you are going to put it in the oven add J oz. of mace and nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds and currants if you think proper. CAEE, CARAWAY. Mix i lb. of sifted loaf sugar with 1 lb. of flour and J lb. of butter; add some ground caraway seeds, according to taste ; make it into a stiff paste with 3 well- beaten eggs and a little rose water; roll it out thin, cut it into round cakes, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon floured tins in a quick oven. CAEE, CHANTILLY. Bake a rice cake in a mould ; wben cold cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Putin a tliick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of raspberry jam, and then yut on a high whip. CAEE, CHEESE (Curd). Boil in 2 quarts of cream the well-beaten yolks of 4 and the whites of 5 eggs ; drain ofl' the whey gently, and mix with the curd grated nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, 3 table-spoonsful of the best rose water, as much white wine, 4 ozs. of pounded loaf sugar, and the same quantity of butter (beaten to a cream) and of pounded biscuit. Mix all these ingredients well together, and stir in ^ lb. of currants. Bake it in a large tin, or in patty pans lined with paste ; or it may be baked in a dish previously buttered. CAEE, CHESHIRE. Beat for half an hour the yolks of 8 and the whites of 5 eggs. Add i lb. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, I lb. of dried and sifted flour, and the grated peel of a small lemon. Beat all well together, and bake in a floured tin. CAEE, CHOCOLATE. Scrape down 3 ozs. of the best and purest chocolate, or prepared cocoa. Cut up, in a deep pan, -J lb. of fresh butter; add to it 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, and stir the butter and sugar together till very light and white. Have ready 14 ozs. of sifted sugar, a powdered nutmeg, and 1 tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, mixed together. Beat the whites of 10 eggs till they stand alone; then the yolks till they are very thick and smooth. Then mix the yolks and whites gradu- ally together, beating very hard when they are all mixed. Add the eggs by degrees to the beaten butter and sugar, in turn with the flour and scraped chocolate, a little at a time of each; also the spice. Stir the whole very hard. Put the mixture into a buttered tin pan with straight sides, and bake it at least four hours. If nothing is to be baked afterwards let it remain till the oven becomes cool. When cold ice it. CAEE, CINNAMON. Make a nice paste with the proportion of ^Ib. of fresh butter to[ 201 ] CAE CAE 1J lb. of sifted flour, and roll it out thin into a square sheet. Have ready a mixture of brown sugar, fresh butter, and a large portion of ground cinnamon, all stirred together very lightly. Spread this mixture thickly over the sheet of paste; then roll it up as you would a rolled-up marmalade pudding. After it is rolled up cut it down into pieces or cakes of equal size, and press them rather flat. Have ready over a fire a skillet or frying-pan with plenty of fresh butter boiling hard. Put in some of the cakes, and fry them brown. As fast as they are done take them out with a perforated skimmer; drain off the butter, and lay them on a hot dish. Then put in more cakes till all are fried. They should be eaten warm, first sifting powdered white sugar over them. CAKE, COCOA-NUT. Cut up and peel some very ripe cocoa-nut. Lay the pieces for a while in cold water. Then take them out, wipe them very dry, and grate very fine as much as when grated will weigh half a pound. Powder ^ lb. of the best loaf sugar. Beat 8 eggs till very light, thick, and smooth; then stir the grated cocoa-nut and the powdered sugar alternately into the pan of beaten egg, a little at a time of each, adding a handful of sifted flour, a pov/dered nutmeg, and a glass of sweet wine. Stir the wliole very hard. Batter a square tin pan, put in the mixture, set it im- mediately into a quick oven, and bake it well, seeing that the heat is well kept up all the time. When cool cut it into squares. Have ready a thick icing, made of powdered sugar and white of egg, flavoured with rose water or extract of roses. Ice each square of the cake all over the top and sides. You may bake it in a loaf, or in a deep, circular pan. Ice the whole surface and ornament it. For a large cake, baked in a loaf, allow 1 lb. of grated cocoa-nut, 1 lb. of sugar, 16 eggs, 2 hand ful of flour, and 2 glasses of wine. It will require very long baking. CAKE, COMMON. Rub into 1 lb. of flour ilb. of good butter; mix with two well-beaten eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of fresh yeast, as much warm milk as will make the flour into a very thick batter. Let this remain near the fire, covered with a cloth, for an hour. Then mix into it 6 ozs. of good brown sugar, and 9 ozs. of well-cleaned and dried currants ; let it stand again for half an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for an hour. CAKE, CREAM. Sift some double-refined sugar; beat the whites of 7 or 8 eggs; shake in as many spoonsful of sugar ; grate in the rind of a large lemon; drop the froth on a paper, laid on tins, in lumps at a distance; sift a good deal of sugar over them ; set them in a moderate oven; the froth will rise; just colour them. You may put raspberry jam, and stick two bottoms together. Put them in a cool oven to dry. CAKE, CURRANT. Take i lb. of cleaned and dried currants, the same quantity of dried and sifted flour, ^ lb. of pounded sugar, ^ lb. of fresh butter, 4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, both well beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pounded cinnamon. Then beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar, and then the eggs and the flour. Beat these well for twenty minutes ; mix in the currants and grated nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round form upon buttered paper, or bake them in small tins in a quick oven. CAKE, DRY. Rub 1 lb. of butter into 1 lb. of flour and 1 lb. of sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked all night in orange or rose water). Whip the whites of 8 eggs to a snow; beat the yolks of 6 eggs with a little brandy; mix this very well; butter the pans ; only half fill them. They are baked in half an hour in a brisk, not a scorching oven. They will keep half a year. If agreeable make them with, currants ; put f lb. CAKE, DUTCH. Take 5 lbs. of flour, 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, i lb. of sugar, and something more than a pint of milk; put into it f lb. of butter; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a pint of good ale-yeast; pour in the butter and milk, and make these into a paste, letting it stand a quarter of an hour before the fire to rise ; then mould and roll it into cakes, pretty thin ; prick them all over, or they will blister, and bake them a quarter of an hour. CAKE, FAMILY. Take rice and wheat- flour of each 6 ozs., the yolks and whites of 9 eggs, 4 Ih. of lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and i oz. of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the same time in a quick oven. This is a very light cake, and is very proper for young people and delicate stomachs. CAKE, FRENCH. Take a quart of sifted flour, make a sponge, add to it 1 oz. of salt, 2 ozs. of sugar, 1^ lb. of butter, and 12 eggs; mix the whole well together ; work up your paste ; if it is too stiff moisten it with a little milk; then leave it to stand for half an hour; then add to it t lb. of butter and give it four turns, the same as puff"-paste. Put your cake into a mould, lay it very thick, cut the edges in the form of a lozenge, gild it, put it into a baking- tin, ornament it, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. CAKE, FRUIT. See Cake, Peach. CAKE, GUM. Take gum tragacanth, let it lie all night in rose water till it is dissolved; have double-refined sugar, beaten and seared, and mix your gum and sugar together; make it up into a paste, then roll up some plain and some with herbs and flowers ;^by-the-by, you may use[ 202 J CAK CAK the juice of the herbs and flowers only;—sweet marjoram, red roses, marigold, cloves, gilliflowers, and bluebottle berries, all clijjped from the white. When you have made all your colours ready, have to every one a little rolliug-pin and a knife, or else the colours will mix. First lay a white and then a colour ; then a white again, for two colours will not do well; so roll them up, and cut them the size of a sixpence ; but in what form you please, minding they are rolled very thin. CAKE, HEART. With your hand work 1 lb. of butter to a cream; then put to it the yolks of 12 and only the whites of 6 eggs well beaten; 1 lb. of dried flour, 1 lb. of sifted sugar, 4 spoonsful of good brandy, and 1 lb. of currants washed and dried before the fire. As the pans are filled put in 2 ozs. of candied orange and citron, and continue beating the cake till you put it into the oven. This quantity will be sufficient to fill three dozen middling-sized pans. CAKE, HONEYCOMB. Boil your sugar to a candy height; then put in your flowers, which must be cut. Have little papers with four corners ready ; drop some of the candy on the papers ; take some of them off when ready, and if they are rightly done they will look full of holes like honeycombs. CAKE, HYDE PARK. Take 2 lbs. of flour. 4 ozs. of common sugar, and ^ oz. of caraway seeds pounded; then set a sponge with | gill of yeast and a little warm milk ; when it, works take some boiling milk, add to it 5 ozs. of fresh butter, mix it up lightly, and let it be some time ; then roll it out, cut it into any form, and bake it in a moderate oven. CAKE, ICE-CREAM. Stir together till very light J lb. of powdered sugar and J lb. of fresh butter. Beat 6 eggs, and stir into them i pint of rich milk. Add gradually the eggs and milk to the butter and sugar, alternately, with i lb. of sifted flour. Add a glass of sweet wine and some grated nutmeg. When all the ingredients are mixed stir the batter very hard; then put it into small deep pans or cups that have been well buttered, filling them about two- thirds with the batter; set them immediately into a brisk oven and bake them brown. When done remove them from the cups, and place them to cool on an inverted sieve. When quite cold make a slit or incision in the side of each cake. If very light and properly baked, they will be hollow in the middle. Fill up this cavity with ice-cream, carefully put in with a spoon, and then close the slit with your fingers to prevent the cream running out. Spread them on a large dish. Either send them to table immediately, before the ice-cream melts, or keep them on ice till wanted. CAKE, LEMON. Put 3 spoonsful of rose water or orange-flower water to the whites of 10 eggs and beat them an hour; then put in 1 lb. of powdered and sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon. When mixed add the juice of half a lemon and the yolks of 10 eggs beaten smooth. Stir in f lb. of flour, butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Orange cakes are made in the same manner. CAKE, LIQUORICE. Take hyssop and red rose water, of each -J pint; ^ lb. of green liquorice, the outside scraped off, and then beat with a pestle; put to it J lb. of aniseed and steep it all night in the water; boil it with a gentle fire till the taste is well out of the liquorice; strain it, put to it 3 lbs. of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle fire till it becomes of the thickness of cream; take it off and put to it ■^Ib. of white sugar-candy seared very fine; beat this well together for at least three hours, and never suffer it to stand still; as you beat it you must strew in it double-refined sugar finely seared, at least 3 lbs. Half an hour before it is finished put in ^ spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in orange-flower water. When it is very white then it is beaten enough. Roll it up with white sugar, and if you want it perfumed put in a pastil or two. CAKE, MADISON. Pick clean 2 lbs. of sultana raisins (those that have no seeds) and cut them in half. If you cannot procure the sultana, use the bloom or muscatel raisins, removing all the seeds. When the raisins are cut in two, dredge them thickly on all sides with flour, to prevent their sinking or clodding in the cake while baking. Sift into a pan If lb. of flour, not more. Cut up 1 lb. of fresh butter iuLo a deep pan, mix with it 1 lb. of white lump sugar finely-powdered, and stir them together till they become thick white cream. Have ready a tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and a table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and mix these spices gradually into the beaten butter and sugar, alternately with the flour and a pint of rich milk (sour milk will be best). Add at the last a very small tea-spoonful of pearlash or of bicarbonate of soda, dissolved in a large wine-glass of brandy. Give the whole a hard stirring, and then put it immediately into a deep, circular pan, the sides and bottom of which have been first well greased with fresh butter. Set it directly into a well-heated oven, and let it bake from five to six hours, according to size. It requires long and steady baking. When cold cover it, top and sides, with a thick icing, made in the usual way of beaten white of egg and sugar, and flavoured with rose water or lemon. CAKE, MAGDALEN (sometimes called Maudlin). Take the same weight of flour, sugar, butter, and eggs ; (in geneial 8 eggs are sufficient for an entremet); put in a little salt 4CAE CAE [ 203 ] and the rasped peel of a lemon; work this paste a little till you have put all the butter into it. Melt a little butter in a stewpan and skim it well; pour a little into each mould and then drain it, leaving, however, a drop at the bottom, to facilitate the removal of the cake. Sift some ashes over a baking-sheet, put the small moulds into it, and then put the paste into each of them, about half the depth, to give it room to rise. Bake them in a moderate oven. When done turn them out on a clean sheet of paper, and put them again into the oven for a few minutes. By changing the form of the mould you produce a dish of a different appear- ance ; and by occasionally emptying the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity either cream or sweetmeats, you make what is called stuffed Magdalen cakes. CAKE, MAUDLIN. See Cake, Magdalen. CAKE, MOLASSES. On a bread-making day, when the wheat-bread has risen perfectly light, and is cracked on the surface, take as much of the dough as will fill a quart bowl, and place it in a broad pan. Cut up I lb. of fresh butter, and set it over the fire to warm and soften, but do not let it melt to an oil. When quite soft mix with it \ pint of West India molasses, a small table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the finely-grated yellow rind of a large orange or lemon, adding also the juice. Have ready 3 well-beaten eggs, and add them gradually to a mixture. It must form a lump of soft dough, but not too thin to knead with your hands. Knead it well on a pasteboard for a quarter of an hour. Butter some tin pans; put an equal portion of the dough into each; cover them, and set them in a warm, but not hot place for a quarter of an hour before baking; then bake the cakes well. Instead of small pans you may bake the whole of the dough in one large one. This cake should be eaten the day it is baked, fresh, but not warm. All sweet cakes in which yeast is an ingredient are best and most wholesome when fresh, as the next day they become hard, dry, and comparatively heavy. CAKE, MONTROSE. Of dried and sifted flour, pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh butter, 1 lb. each will be required ; also 12 well- beaten eggs, f lb. of cleaned and dried currants. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar; add the eggs by degrees, and then the flour and cur- rants, with 2 table-spoonsful of brandy, 1 table- spoonful of rose water, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat all well together for twenty or thirty mi- nutes, when it is to be put in small buttered tins, half filling them, and baking them in a quick oven. The currants may be omitted. CAKE, NUNS'. Take 4 lbs. of very fine flour, and mix with it 3 lbs. of double-refined sugar, finely beaten and sifted; dry them by the fire till your other materials are prepared; take 4 lbs. of butter, beat it in your hands till it is very soft, like cream. Beat 34 eggs, leave out 16 whites, and take out the treads of all; beat the eggs and butter together till it appears like butter, pour in 4 or 5 spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, and beat it again; then take your flour and sugar, with 6 ozs. of caraway seeds; strew it in by degrees, beating it up all the while, for two hours together; put in as much tincture of cinnamon or amber- gris as you please ; butter your hoop, and let it stand three hours in a moderate oven. CAKE, OATMEAL. One only should be made at a time, as the mixture dries quickly. Put two or three handsful of meal into a bowl and moisten it with water merely sufficient to form it into a cake; knead it out round and round with the hands upon a pasteboard, strew- ing meal under and over it (it may be made as thin as a wafer, or thicker, according to taste), and put it on a hot iron plate, called a griddle. Bake it till it is a light brown on the under side ; then take it off, and toast that side before the fire which was uppermost on the griddle. The toaster is such as is commonly used for heating smoothing-irons, having a back to sup port the cake. To make these cakes soft they must not be toasted before the fire, but both sides done quickly on the griddle. CAKE, OXFORD. Mix i table-spoonful of salt with I peck of flour, ^ oz. of cinnamon, \ oz. of nutmeg, 1 drachm of cloves, and as much mace, all finely beaten and sifted with the salt. Add f lb. of sugar, and work well, but gradually, l\\h. of fresh butter into the flour. It will take three quarters of an hour in work- ing up. Then put in 1 quart of cream, 1 pint of ale-yeast, 1 gill of mountain wine, and 3 grains of ambergris, dissolved in the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs, with 1 gill of rose water. Mix the whole with the flour, and knead it into a paste; lay this some time before the fire, then put in 1 lb. of stoned and minced raisins and 3 lbs. of cui-rants, and put the cake into a gentle oven for three hours. When done frost the top with rose water and the white of an egg beaten together; sift over it plenty of fine sugar, and set it in the oven to dry. CAKE, PARISIAN. Take H lb. of finely- sifted flour; make a sponge; then add 4 drachms of fine salt, 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, IJlb. of fine butter, and a glass of cream. Mix the whole well together, spread it out thin, and strew it over with vanilla chopped very small; then mix the whole well together again, after which mould your cake. Finish Avith paper bands, &c.,the same as for all other cakes, and ornament it according to your own fancy;CAE [ 204 ] CAE tlien let it bake for two hours and a half or three hours in a brisk oven. This cake should be eaten cold. CAKE, Px\RLTAMENT. Put into a sauce- pan 2 lbs. of treacle, and when it boils add i lb. of butter, and pour it upon 2 lbs. of flour; add a little alum and a bit of pearlash about the size of a nut, and 1 oz. of ginger. Work it well with the hand till quite smooth; let it stand a day and a night, then roll it out very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. CAKE, PEACH. Pick clean and wash 1 quart of dried peaches, and let them stew all night in as much clear water as will cover them. In the morning drain off most of the water, leaving only as much of it about the peaches as will suffice to prevent them from burning after they are set on the fire. It will be best to have them soaked in the vessel in which you intend to stew them. Keep them covered while stewing, except when you take off the lid to stir them up from the bottom. When they are quite soft, and can be mashed into a smooth jam or marmalade, mix in ^ lb. of brown sugar, and set the peaches to cool. In the meantime soften i lb. of the best fresh butter in J pint of warm milk, heated on the stove, but not allowed to come to a simmer. Sift 1 lb. of flour into a pan; pour in the warm milk and butter (first stirring them well together), and I wine-glass of strong, fresh yeast. Mix the whole into a dough ; cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise. When quite light and cracked all over the surface flour your pasteboard, put the dough upon it, mix in a tea-spoonful of sub- carbonate of soda, and knead it well; set it again in a warm place for half an hour. Then divide the dough into equal portions, and make it up into round cakes about the size in circum- ference of the top of a tumbler; knead each cake; then roll them out into a thin sheet. Have ready the peach jam, mashed very smooth ; with a portion of it cover thickly the half of each cake. Fold over the other half so as to inclose the peach jam in the form of a half- moon ; bring the two edges closely together, and crimp them neatly. Jjay the cakes in buttered square pans, and make them brown. When done grate sugar over the top. These cakes are nice for children, being very light, if properly made and baked. They are by no means rich, and are good substitutes for tarts. Similar cakes may be. made of stewed apples, flavoured with lemon and sweetened, or with raspberries, or any other convenient fruit stewed to a jam. CAKE, PEPPER. Take 1 gill of sherry and oz. of whole white pepper; boil them together for a quarter of an hour; then strain the pepper and put in as much lump sugar as will make it a paste. Then drop it into shapes on a tin plate, and then let them dry without heat. CAKE, PLUM (Campagxe). Take 4 pints of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, and put into it 1 oz. of fine salt, 2 lbs. of butter, 6 eggs, and 3 glasses of water. Beat up the butter with the eggs, the salt, and the water; then mix the flour with the butter; mix up your paste lightly, and give it four turns with the rolling- pin, the same as in making puff-paste. After this working up, form your cake, sprinkling the table with flour, place it upon a pan, press it down till it is about three inches thick; then surround the cake with a band of stout paper, and, to prevent the paste from extending, place over the first band of paper several smaller ones, wetted with the yolk of egg beaten up; place these bands of paper half upon the cake and half in the pan. Your cake, being thus pre- pared, gild it, and with the point of a knife describe upon it all sorts of figures, according to your taste. Put it into a quick oven and let it bake for three hours. This cake is better cold than hot. CAKE, PLUM (Plain). Take 3 lbs. of flour, a little ale-yeast, 1 pint of milk, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, and a little allspice; make into dough before you put in the plums, and work in as many as you please. CAKE, PLUM (Rich). Take 4 lbs. of the finest flour well dried and sifted ; 6 lbs. of the best fresh butter ; 7 lbs. of currants well washed, picked, and rubbed very clean and dry ; 2 lbs. of Jordan almonds blanched and beaten in a marble mortar, with sack and orange-flower water, till they are very fine. Take 4 lbs. of eggs, leave out half the white?, and add 3 lbs. of double-refined sugar beaten and sifted in a lawn sieve, with mace, cloves, and cinnamon, of each J oz.; 3 large nutmegs beaten fine ; a little ginger ; of sack and brandy ^ pint each ; sweet- meats to your liking ; lemon and citron. Take a large broad pan, beat the butter to a cream before any of your ingredients go in, minding to beat it all one way or it will turn to oil ; put in the sugar, beat it well, and work in your almonds. Let your eggs be well beaten, put in, and beat all together till it looks white and thick; put in tho brandy, sack, and spices, and shake your flour in by degrees; when your oven is ready put in the currants and sweetmeats and put it into your hoop. It will take four hours baking in a quick oven. CAKE, PLUM (Vanilla). Take li pint of flour, make a hole in the middle,put in 6 drachms of sugar grated very fine, 3 drachms of white salt, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 lb. of butter, and a glass of good cream, and stir up the same as for Cam- PAGKE Plum Cake. Spread your paste overCAK CAK [ 205 ] very tliin, sprinkle it with a piece of vanilla grated very fine, then form your cake and pro- ceed the same as for Campagne Plum Cake. CAKE, POLISH. Take some puff-paste and form it into a crust J inch thick ; cut it into square pieces, moisten the surface of them, and gather up the four corners of each and press them together. Have ready some small round moulds, dip them in warm water, and put them through the middle of the cakes ; then put them in the oven. When they are three parts done take them out, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; then let them finish baking. When done take out the moulds, and fill with whatever sweetmeat you think proper. CAKE, PORTUGUESE. Blanch and pound ^Ib. of almonds; mix with them the juice of 3 oranges with their peel very finely chopped up ; put this preparation into a pan and add to it some powdered sugar, 2 ozs. of very fine flour, and the yolks of 6 eggs. Beat up the whites, and mix them also with the other ingredients ; then take a long mould or paper case, butter it, and put in your preparation. Let it bake in a moderate oven. When done cut them into small squares or lozenges, glaze them, and put them in a stove to dry. CAKE, POTATO CHEESE. Pound in a mortar 5 ozs. of potatoes with 4 ozs. of fresh butter, and the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel and juice of half a lemon, 3 well beaten eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy ; mix all well together. Line the patty pans with paste, fill them three parts full, and bake them in a moderate oven. CAKE, POUND. Take of dried and sifted flour, sifted loaf sugar, fresh butter, cleaned and dried currants, 1 lb. each, and I'i eggs; then whisk the yolks and the eggs separately, while another with the hand beats the butter to a cream ; and as the froth rises on the eggs add it to the butter, and continue so doing till it is all beaten in; mix the flour and sugar together and add them by degrees. The last thing mix in the currants together with a glass of brandy. It will require to be beaten during a whole hour. Bake it in a buttered tin. CAKE, POUND (Ginger). Cut up in a pan I lb. of butter ; mix with it 1 pint of West India molasses, and 1 tea-cupful of brown sugar. If in winter set it over the fire till the butter has become soft enoagh to mix easily with the molasses and sugar; then take it off, and stir them well together. Sift into a pan 1 lb. of flour. In another pan beat 5 eggs very lightly. Add gradually the beaten eggs and the flour to the mixture of butter, sugar, and molasses, with 2 large table-spoonsful of ground ginger, and 1 heaped tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Then stir in 1 glass of brandy, and lastly, I small tea-spoonful of saleratus or subcarbonate of soda melted in a very little milk. Stir the whole very hard, transfer the mixture to a buttered tin pan, and bake it in a moderate oven from two to three hours, in proportion to its thickness. This cake will be much improved by the addition of 1 lb. of sultana or seedless raisins, well dredged with flour to prevent their sinking, and stirred in gradually at the last. You may add, also, the yellow rind of a lemon or orange grated finR. CAKE, POUND (Rice-flouk). Weigh 1 lb. of broken-up loaf sugar of the best quality. Upon some of the largest lumps rub off the yellow rind of 3 large, ripe lemons, that have been previously rolled under your hand, on a table, to increase the juice. Then powder fine all the pound of sugar. Cut up into a deep pan 1 lb. of the best fresh butter; mix with it the powdered sugar, and stir them together with a wooden spaddle till perfectly light. Squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer into a bowl; mix with it half a grated nutmeg, and add to it the butter and sugar. Sift 1 lb. (or 1 quart) of rice-flour into a pan; beat 12 eggs till they are smooth and thick ; then stir the beaten egg and the rice- flour alternately into the butter and sugnr, a little of each at a time. Having stirred the whole long and hard, put the mixture into a buttered tin pan that has straight or upright sides; set it im- mediately into a well-heated oven, and bake it thoroughly. It will require four or five hours, in proportion to its thickness. When done it will shrink a little from the sides of the pan, and a twig from a corn-broon or a wooden skewer, plunged down to the bottom of the cake, will come out dry and clean. When cool ice it, adding a little rose water or lemon-juice to the icing. Heap the icing first on the centre of the top, and then, with a broad-bladed knife (dipped occasionally into a bowl of cold water), spread it evenly all over the surface of the cake. Instead of lemons you may use, for flavouring this cake, the yellow rind of 2 oranges grated on the sugar, and the juice of 3 mixed with the spice. Orange rind being stronger and more powerful to the taste than that of lemon, a small quantity of it will suffice. You may bake the above mixture in little tins, like queen cakes, taking care to grease theni with fresh butter. Tins mixture will make a nice pudding, using only | lb. of rice-flour, but the above quantities of all the other ingredients. Bake it in a china or hand- some white ware, as it must go to table in the dish it is baked in. CAKE, POUND (Seed). Take 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of finely-powdered sugar, 1 lb. of butter, 8 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, as much caraway seeds as you like. First beat up the butter to a cream with your hands, beating it one way lest' it on; then by degrees beat in your eggs, sugar.CAE [ 206 ] CAK and flour, till it goes to the oven. Bake it in a quick oven, and it will take an hour and a quar- ter in baking. CAKE, QUEEN. Beat 1 lb. of butter to a cream with some rose water; 1 lb. of flour dried; 1 lb. of sifted sugar; 12 eggs. Beat all well together; add a few currants, washed and dried; butter small pans of a size for the pur- pose ; gi'ate sugar over them; they are soon baked. They may be done in a Dutch oven. CAKE, RATAFIA. Take i lb. of sweet almonds, and as many bitter ones; blanch and beat them in orange-flower water, rose water, or common water. Sift 1 lb. of fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds. Have ready the whites of 4 eggs; mix the same with the almonds and sugar; put the whole into a preserving-pan, set it over a fire, and stir it till it is hot; when it begins to cool form it into small rolls, and cut them into thin cakes. Dip your hands in flour, and shake them over the cakes, giving them a light touch with the finger; put them on sugared papers, and sift some fine sugar over them, when you put them into a slow oven. CAKE, RICE. Whisk 10 eggs for half an hour; add to them i lb. of flour of rice, i lb. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of 3 lemons. Mix this into i lb. of fresh butter, previously beaten to a cream. Bake the cake in a buttered tin. CAKE, RICE (Sweet Dish). Wash well and drain J lb. of rice; boil 1 quart of fresh cream with the peel of 1 lemon, and when nearly cold take it out, and put in it the rice; place the saucepan over a slow fire, and when the rice has swollen add a little salt, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar. When the rice is quite tender add the yolks of 8 eggs, and mix in gradually the beaten whites, with a good bit of fresh butter, and pour it into a mould ; turn this round that the butter may equally cover every part of it; then pour out the butter, and strew over the inside a layer of grated bread with a paste-brush or a slip of paper, sprinkle all over it some of the clarified butter, add more grated bread, pour in the rice, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with or without a garnish- ing of preserved raspberries, cherries, or currants. CAKE, RICH. To 2i lbs. of dried and sifted flour allow the same quantity of fresh butter, washed with rose water, 2 lbs. of finely- pounded loaf sugar, 3 lbs. of cleaned and dried currants, 1 grated nutmeg, ^ lb. of sweetmeats cut small, I lb. of blanched almonds pounded with a little rose water, and 20 eggs, after these the rest of the ingredients, mixing in at last the currants, with a tea-cupful of brandy, and nearly as much orange-flower water. This mixture must be beaten together rather more than an hour, then put into a cake-pan which has previously been buttered and lined with buttered paper; fill it rather more than three quai-ters full. It should be baked in a moderate oven for three hours, and then cooled gradually, by at first letting it stand some time at the mouth of the oven. CAKE, ROSQUELLE. Take i lb. of sweet almonds, with a few bitter ones, blanch and pick them; then pound them very fine, and when nearly pounded enough, put in about ^Ib. of Lisbon sugar, by degrees; when the whole is well blended, take it out of the mortar. Then have some puff-paste rolled out very thin; roll out your almonds in lengths as long as the paste is broad, which lay on the paste and turn the end over; lightly egg it, to join it together; then with the gigging iron cut it across, each about three inches long ; put them in the oven, and when nearly done, glaze them, the same as other pastry. CAKE, ROYAL. Put a very little lemon- peel, shred fine, into a stevvpan, ■with 2 ozs. of sugar, a small pinch of salt, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a glass of water, and 4 or 5 spoonsful of flour. Stir it over the fire till the paste becomes thick and begins to ad- here to the stewpan; then take it off, put in 1 egg, and stir it in the paste till it is well mixed. Continue to add an egg at a time till the paste softens without much liquid ; then put in some dried orange flowers, and 2 bitter almond biscuits. CAKE, SAFFRON. Take i peck of flour, 1^ lb. of butter, 3 ozs. of caraway seeds, and 6 eggs; beat J oz. of cloves and mace together very fine with ^oz. of cinnamon; beat lib. of sugar, 2 table-spoonsful of rose water, saffron sufficient to your taste, 1^ pint of yeast, and 1 quart of milk. Mix all together lightly with your hands thus:—First boil the milk and butter; skim off the butter, and mix with it the flour and a little of the milk, stir the yeast into the rest, and strain it; mix it with the flour, put in your seed, spice, rose water, tincture of saffron, sugar, and eggs. Beat all up with your -hands very lightly, and bake it in a hoop or pan, minding to butter the pan well. It will take an hour and a half in a quick oven. You may leave out the seeds if you please. CAKE, SALLY LUNN'S. Take 1 pint of milk quite warm, J pint of thick small beer- yeast ; put them into a pan with flour sufficient to make it as thick as a batter; cover it over, and let it stand till it has risen as high as it will, i.e., about two hours ; add 2 ozs. of lump sugar, dissolved in J pint of warm milk, i lb. of butter rubbed into your flour very fine. Then make your dough the same as for French Rolls, &c.; let it stand half an hour, then make up[ 207 ] CAK CAK your cakes, and put them on tins. When they have stood to rise bake them in a quick oven. Care should be taken never to put your yeast to water or milk too hot or too cold, as either extreme will destroy the fermentation. In summer it should be lukewarm, in winter a little warmer, and in very cold weather warmer still. When it has first risen, if you are not prepared, it will not hurt to stand an hour. CAKE, SAVOY. Put 14 whole eggs on one side of the pair of scales and their weight in fine sugar on the other side ; take out the sugar and 7 of the eggs, and balance the remaining 7 with fine flour; then put the flour aside, break the eggs, putting the yolks apart from the whites. Add to the yolks the sugar you have weighed, a little grated lemon-peel, and some dried, chopped orange flowers. Beat them all up together for half an hour; then whip the whites of the eggs, put the flour you have weighed to them, then gradually mix the whole together, stirring the ingredients with the whisk as you mix them. Have ready a cake ring, butter it, put the cake in it, and set it in an oven moderately hot a full hour and a half. When done turn it carefully out upon a dish. If it is of a fine golden colour serve it simply, but if it is of too deep a colour ice it with veiy fine sugar, the white of an egg, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat well together with a wooden spoon till the icing is very white. The cake should not be served until the ice is per- fectly dry. CAKE, SEED. Take 1 lb. of lump sugar well beaten and sifted, 12 ozs. of flour well dried, 2 ozs. of ground caraway seeds, 8 eggs well beaten; then put in your sugar; beat them first well together; add your flour and caraways. Beat them all well together. Butter your cake but not too much, and then bake it. CAKE, SEED (Irish). Beat to a cream 8 ozs. of fresh butter and ^ pint of rose water at a time. By degrees mix into it 1 lb. of sifted loaf sugar, and then 9 well beaten eggs; add 12 ozs. of flour and 3 ozs. of flour of rice dried and sifted, J lb. of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter almonds, 1 tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, and 1 oz. of caraway seeds. Beat all these well together. Bake it in a cake-tin, which must be buttered and lined with paper, also buttered. It will require about one hour and a half to bake in a quick oven. It may be made without the almonds or the essence of lemon. CAKE, SEED (Rich). Take 5 lbs. of fine flour, well dried, and 4 lbs. of single-refined sugar beaten and sifted; mix these together and sift them through a hair sieve; then wash 4 lbs. of butter in 8 spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, mashing the butter with your hands till it is like cream ; beat 20 yolks and 10 whites of eggs, and put to them 6 spoonsful of sherry wine; put in the flour by degrees, and keep stirring it with your hand all the time. You must not begin mixing it till the oven is almost hot, and after it is mi.xed let it stand some time before you put it into the hoop. When you are ready to put it in the oven, put to it 8 ozs. of candied orange-peel sliced, with as much citron, and 1^ lb. of caraway comfits; mix them well and put it into the hoop. It must be a quick oven, and two or three hours will be sufiicient to bake the cake, after which you may ice it if you please. CAKE, SHORT. Dissolve i lb. of fresh butter in as much milk as will make 1^ lb. of flour into a paste, roll it out about J inch thick, and cut it into large round cakes. Do them in a frying-pan and serve them hot. They are eaten with butter. CAKE, SHREWSBURY. Having beaten i lb. of butter to a cream, put in i lb. of flour, 1 egg, 6 ozs. of loaf sugar beaten and sifted, i oz. of caraway seeds mixed into a paste and roll them in. Cut them round with little tins, or a small glass, prick them, lay them on sheets of tin, and bake them in a slow oven. CAKE, SPONGE (1). Weigh 10 eggs and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of 6 in flour; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. CAKE, SPONGE (2). Take the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 12 eggs, 12 ozs. of finely- pounded loaf sugar, the same of dried and sifted flour; then with a horn spoon beat the yolks of 10 eggs, add the sugar by degrees, and beat it till it will stand when dropped from the spoon. Put in at separate times the two other eggs, yolks and whites ; whisk the 10 whites for eight minutes, and mix in the lemon-juice, and when quite stiff take as much as the whisk will lift and put it upon the yolks and sugar, which must be beaten all the time. Mix in lightly the flour and grated peel, and pour it all gradu- ally over the whites. Stir it together and bake it in a buttered tin or in small tins. Do not more than half fill them. CAKE, SPONGE (Rice). Put 12 eggs into a scale, and balance them in the other scale with their weight in broken loaf sugar. Take out 4 of the eggs, remove the sugar, and balance the remaining 8 eggs with an equal quantity of rice-flour. Rub off on some lumps of the sugar the yellow rind of 3 fine large ripe lemons; then powder all the sugar; break the eggs one at a time into a saucer, and put all the whites into a pitcher, and all the yolks into a broad, shallow, eftnhen pan. Having poured the whites[ 208 ] CAK CAE of egg from tlie pitcher tlirough a strainer into a rather shalh)\v pan, beat them till so stiff that they can stand alone ; then add the powdered sugar gradually to the white of egg, and beat it in well. In the other pan beat the yolks till veiy smooth and thick; then mix them gradu- ally, a little at a time, with the white of egg and sugar. Lastly, stir in by degrees the rice- flour, adding it lightly, and stirring it slowly and gently round till the surface is covered with bubbles. Transfer it directly to a buttered tin pan; set it immediately into a brisk oven, and bake it an hour and a half or more, according to its thickness. Ice it when cool, flavouring the icing with lemon or rose. This cake will be best the day it is baked. CAKE, SPONGE (in Small Pans). Take 12 eggs with the weight of them in sugar, and the weight of 6 of them in flour; beat the yolks with the sugar, the whites alone; season with nutmeg or grated lemon-peel; put all to- gether, adding the flour at last. Stir it quickly after the flour is added, as it will make it heavy to beat it much ; grease several small pans and pour it in. Bake with a quick heat and they will be done in half an hour, or less, according to the size. They are pretty iced. CAKE, STRAWBERRY. Sift rather less than a quart of flour into a pan, and cut up among it ^ lb. of the best fresh butter, or mix in 1 pint of butter, if it is soft enough to measure in that manner. Rub with your hands the butter into the flour till the whole is crumbled fine. Beat 3 eggs very lightly, and then mix with them 3 table-spoonsful of powdered loaf sugar. Wet the flour and butter with the beaten egg and sugar, so as to form a dough. If you find it too stiff add a very little cold water. Knead the dough till it quits your hands and leaves them clean. Spread some flour on your pasteboard, and roll out the dough into a rather thick sheet. Cut it into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler, or something similar, dipping the cutter frequently into flour to prevent its sticking. Butter some large, square iron pans or baking sheets; lay the cakes in, not too close to each other ; set them in a brisk oven, and bake them light brown. Have ready a sufficient quantity of ripe straw- berries, mashed and made very sweet with powdered white sugar. Reserve some of your finest strawberries whole. When the cakes are cool, split them, place them on flat dishes, and cover the bottom piece of each with mashed straw- berry, put on thickly ; then lay on the top pieces, pressing them down. Have ready some icing, and spread it thickly over the top and down the sides of the cakes, so as to inclose both the upper and lower pieces. Before the icing has quite dried, ornament the top of every cake with the whole strawberries—a large one in the centre, and the smaller ones placed round in a close circle. They are delicious and beautiful cakes, if properly made. The strawberries, not being cooked, will retain all their natural flavour. In- stead of strawberries, you may use raspberries. The large white Antwerp raspberry is the finest, if to be eaten uncooked. CAKE, SUGAR. Take i lb. of dried flour, tlie same quantity of fresh butter, washed in rose water, and Jib. of sifted loaf sugar; then mix together the flour and tugar, rub in the butter, and add the yolk of an egg, beaten with a table- spoonful of cream; make it into a paste ; roll and cut it into small, round cakes, which bake upon a floured tin. CAKE, TEA. With 1 lb. of flour rub i lb. of butter; add the beaten yolks of 2 and the white of 1 egg, J lb. of pounded loaf sugar, and a few caraway seeds. Mix it to a paste with a little warm milk, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand before the fire for nearly an hour. Roll out the paste, and cut it into round cakes with the top of a glass, and bake them upon floured tins. CAKE, TRIFLE. See CnAKTiLLY. CAKE, TWELFTH. Take 2 lbs. of sifted flour, 2 lbs. of sifted loaf sugar, 2 lbs. of butter, 18 eggs, 4 lbs. of currants, ^ lb. of almonds blanched and chopped, ^ lb. of citron, 1 lb. of candied orange and lemon-peel cut in tliin slices, a large grated nutmeg, ^ oz. of ground allspice, ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and corianders, J oz. of each, and 1 gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stewpan, in a warm place, work it into a smooth cream with the hand, and mix it with the sugar and spice in a pan for some time; then break in the eggs by degrees, and beat it at least twenty minutes ; stir in the brandy, and then the flour, and work it a little ; add the fruit, sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all together lightly. Have ready a hoop cased with paper, on a baking-plate; put in the mixture, smooth it on the top with your hand dipped in milk; put the plate on another, with sawdust between, to prevent the bottom from colouring too much; bake it in a slow oven four hours or more, and, when nearly cold, ice it with icing. This mixture would make a handsome cake, full twelve or fourteen inches ovei'. CAKE, WASHINGTON. Take If lb. of sugar, the same of flour, | lb. of butter, 8 eggs, 1 pint of milk, and mix them as a pound cake. Just as it is ready to bake dissolve a tea-spoon- ful of saleratus in a little sour cream, and stir in. Season with nutmeg and rose brandy, or essence of lemon. Bake it as a pound cake. Some persons put in a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice iust before baking. CAKE, WATER. Take 3 lbs. of powdered sugar, and 4 lbs. of sifted flour; mix tJie HourCAL CAK [ 209 ] aticl sugar together on a clean dresser, willi half water and half whites of eggs, and as many caraway seeds as you think proper. Mix all together so as to make a vei^ fine paste that you can roll on the dresser, and the thinner the better; cut out the shape you like with a tin cutter (round and scalloped is the most common, but vary the shape to your own fancy); roll them very thin, and tliey will be the crisper, for, if they are not crisp, tliey are not worth eating ; put them on a sheet of paper, and put them into a rather slow oven, and, if you think it too hot, put as many sheets of paper as you think fit, to prevent them fi'om being burnt. Bake them very little, so as just to change the colour of them, and butter the sheet of paper you put them on, that they may come off easily. CAKE, YEAST. Take 1 lb. of flour ; 2 lbs. of currants, washed and picked; I lb. of Lisbon sugar; J lb. of citron and can- died orange-peel, cut into slices; cinnamon and mace, a small quantity of each, pounded and sifted. Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, put in 1 gill of sweet wine and a little warm milk. Mix all together, fill a hoop with it, let it remain till it rises, and 1)^116 it CAKE, YORKSHIRE. Take 2 lbs. of flour, and mix with it 4 ozs. of butter, melted in 1 pint of good milk, 3 spoonsful of yeast, and 2 eggs. Beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead it and make it into cakes. Let them rise on tins before you bake. CAL DUMACHU CALDE. Cut the breast out of 2 chickens, and pound the remainder. Put the pounded meat with the gizzards to simmer two hours in 2 quarts of water. Prepare one of the breasts by pounding it well; strain the liquor, of which there ought to be at least 3 pints; add the pounded meat, by rubbing it with a little of the soup; put in the other breast whole, some fried onions, the livers, gizzards, and J spoonful of curry powder, acid and salt. More curry or Cayenne may be added, accord- ing to taste. CALASH. This is a kind of hood for ladies to wear over their heads, when going to evening parties. Supposing it to be wished of black silk, buy f yard of the silk, and the same quantity of pink sarcenet for lining; 3| yards of black ribbon, f inch wide, for the runners ; 1 yard of pink for strings, 2 inches wide ; 2 small canes, 27 inches long, the size of a thick bonnet-wire, and a sheet of white wadding. Cutoff the selvage way \H inches of the silk, and of the strips left make the curtain and horseshoe—the former must be 12^ inches long and 4 J- inches wide ; the latter 5 inches wide, and 4i inches high. Now quilt the lining 6J inches deep; viz., lay the wadding. split in halves to make it thin, on the pink sarcenet, and run it in stripes crossways with fine silk, If inch one way, and 2 inches the other. Join the outside and inside tog.iiher by bringing the black over the lining enough to admit one of the canes, and make a running for the other close to it. Now measure 4| inches, and begin the first numers (they must be all ^ inch wide); leave 2 inches, and make the second; leave If inch, and make the third. Gather up the end, leaving 3 inches plain on each side, quilt your horseshoe (the black one), cord it round, and put it in, lining it afterwards that all the raw edges may be covered. The curtain must be quilted half way up to make a border of a diamond and a half. Line it, and make a narrow runner at the bottom (the lining should be a little wider than the out- side, to form, or rather cover the joint, and make the runner at the bottom of the hood); put it on, leaving 3^ inches on each side from the front. Make eyelet-holes in the middle of each runner, at the top of the hood, and also below the horseshoe ; put in your narrow ribbon and the canes, draw it up the size you like, which will just allow three good bows and ends at the top, and one at the back ; put in the strings, and turn up the hood in front 2 or 3 inches, and you will have made a pretty and truly comfortable hood, or calash, for evening wear. CALCAVALLA. See LisnoN Wines. CALENDERING is the process by which a glazed surface is put upon silks, stuffs, linens, and calicoes. It used to be done by rubbing the surface with a very smooth round flint pebble, but now by pressing the fabric between two heated iron rollers. Calico is always calen- dered before being printed, and so are all goods after being scoured or dyed. Household furniture and wearing-apparel must be very valuable to render it worth the expense of being calendered. Calamanco is a fine woollen stuff highly calendered. CALF'S BRAINS (in Aspic). Prepare your brains a.s for poelees. Put some lukewarm aspic in a mould, lay it about an inch thick, let it cool and congeal, and then, having cut the brains into four parts, place them on the aspic in a thin layer, and pour on them a sufficient quantity of nearly cold aspic to fill the mould, and place it till the jelly quits the side, or dip the mould in ice. When properly set, and it is wanted for table; heat a cloth, and rub your mould with it into w'arm water; turn it out with ' gi'eat care, and if any pieces of the jelly should be spilt on the dish suck them up by means of a reed. CALF'S BRAINS (in Black Buttf.b). Clean, soak, and blanch 3 or 4 calves' brains;1 CAL C 210 ] CAL put them into a saucepanful of boiling water, vdth a little salt and i glass of vinegar. Let them remain in this till cold, which will make them firm. Cook them in a good marinade for three quarters of an hour, and when ready to serve pour some black butter into the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. CALF'S BRAINS (Breaded). Prepare them as for plain boiling; soak them for two hours in vinegar; take them out, and roll them in eggs beaten to a thick snow; cover them with bread-crumbs, and either broil or fry them. CALF'S BRAINS (Fkied). Prepare and dress the brains as for poelees, then cut them into 6 pieces, and put them into a basin, with salt, pepper, and vinegar till just before they are wanted, when they should be drained. Put them into batter, not too hot, and fry them. Drain them again, and place them on a dish round a pyramid of fried parsley. CALF'S BRAINS (in Jelly). Put some jelly in a plain round mould and set it in ice, and as soon as the jelly is well set tuni it on the table-dish, which must be placed over pounded ice. Put on the jelly a whole calf's brain ; cover it entirely with iced Montpelier butter; on this lay 3 more brains boiled very white. Ornament the top with pieces of jelly, garnish your dish with a border of jelly or coloured butter, and serve. CALF'S BRAINS (with Oysters). Blanch and clean the brains, then wipe them dry, dip them in the yolks of eggs, and roll them in bread-crumbs; fry them in boiling lard till of good colour; drain them very dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham, cut in small, round pieces. CALF'S BRAINS (Plain). Take the brains from 2 calves' heads; clean and soak them in warm water; boil them in good stock, or con- somme. Sei-ve either cold or warm. CALF'S BRAINS (Scalloped). Cut some calf's brains into 12 pieces, and put into a sauce- pan mushrooms and truffles, tossed up in a little white wine; reduce them to a jelly, and then add 2 spoonsful of Allemande and ] spoonful of veloute. Boil these, and put to them a little butter, parsley, and lemon-juice; put in the brains, mix them all together, and put them into scallop shells; cover them with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese; pour a little melted butter over, and brown them. CALF'S BRAINS BLANC-MANGE. When the brains are well cleansed and soaked place them on 2 slices of bacon and 2 slices of lemon in a stewpan, with a glass of stock. When suf- ficiently done take them out, and when cool cut them into strips, and pour over them white sauce-cream, boiled with the yolks of eggs, or any other cream-sauce you please. CALF'S BRAINS AND CRAYFISH. Boil the brains in a little stock; drain, and place them on a dish so tliat the end of each piece may meet in the middle. Take the tails and claws from as many crayfish as you please, a7id place one between each piece of the brain. Put one in the middle, with the tail and claws on. Pom: over the brains either butter of crayfish, or tomato sauce. CALF'S BRAINS MAGNONAISE. Clean and soak five calves' brains in cold water for some hours ; drain, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt, and i glass of tarragon vinegar. Having boiled tliem a quarter of an hour, take out the brains carefully, and put them in a pan of cold water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon ; lay in the brains, and on them sliced lemons; cover the whole with bacon and buttered paper; add a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions stuck with cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the brains. When it boils set the stewpan by the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour. Let the brains cool in their liquor, and then drain them on a napkin; divide each brain in half; trim and place them en couronne on the table-dish; garnish them with a border of jelly, and in the spaces between each half brain lay a crescent of jelly cut with a paste-cutter, 2|^ inches in dia- meter. Pour into the centre of the crown a sauce magnonaise, either white or d la ravigoUe, and serve. CALF'S BRAINS PASTY. Cleanse and scald the brains, then blanch some asparagus tops with a little parsley and butter. When cold put them into the pasties, with the yolks of 6 hard eggs and some forcemeat. Put them into the oven, and when done lift up the upper crust, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, butter, and gravy. CALF'S BRAINS SALAD. Prepare and dress calf's brains as for Magnonaise ; place them also en couronne on a bed of lettuce, cut small, and dressed as usual; garnish each piece of the brains with lettuce, and arrange a border of eggs, lettuce, hearts, and anchovies cut in slips. When about to serve it pour over the brains, or into the middle of them, a sauce magnonaise d la ravigotte. CALF'S CHAWDRON (German). Make a gratin with Swiss cheese rasped, bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, and a little cullis; place it in a table-dish over hot ashes, that it may catch at the bottom; then put in the chawdron, boiled, cleared of the fat, cut in pieces, and previously mixed with sauce Robert. Garnish the dish with small onions boiled in broth and bits of bread fried in butter; pour on it a little butter, melted[ 211 3 CAL CAL ■witli a spoonful of mustard. Strew bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and colour it in the oven. Wipe the dish free from fat, and serve with clear, relishing sauce. CALF'S CHAWDRON AND ANCHO- VIES. Melt some butter in a stewpan, and toss in it some small sliced onions ; add a little stock or veal broth; put into this the chaw- dron properly prepared, and cut in pieces with salt, pepper, tarragon, and herbs. When they are flavoured pour them into a buttered mould, and place on them 6 anchovies, -washed and split in 4 pieces, in the forms of crosses. Cover the whole with caul, and bake in a moderate oven. CALF'S CHAWDRON AND CHEESE. Toss up the chawdron with a bit of butter, and some small onions, with ^ glass of stock. Cut some Gruyere cheese into thin slices, melt it, and baste it with veal gravy, mixed with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs. Pour over this the chawdron and sauce, and brown it. CALF'S CHAWDRON FRITTERS. Cook a prepared chawdron with salt, parsley, scallions, garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and 2 or 3 cloves. When sufBciently done drain it, and clear away the fat; cut it small, and marinade it one hour in butter, 2 spoonsful of vinegar, parsley, scallions, shallots (all minced), salt, and pepper. Warm the marinade, then take out the chawdron and its seasonings, and roll them up by degrees, making the herbs, &c., stick to them. Dip them in egg and bread, and fry them. CALF'S CHAWDRON PIE. Make a ragout with a chawdron (previously boiled), mushrooms, parsley, shallots, garlic, 1 glass of white wine and cuUis. When quite done cut the chawdron in slices, and put it with the sauce into a baked puff-crust. Skim the fat off, and add pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. CALF'S CHAWDRON PUDDING. Pre- pare your chawdron, and cut into small piecoe of the size of a nut. Season with salt, pepper, tarragon, scallions, spices, and pork fat cut small. You may add some godiveau and the crumb of bread boiled in milk, and beaten up ■with yolks of eggs. Soften some pieces of caul in warm water, lay them open on the table, and fill them with the above mixture. Form them to any shape you please, and bake them. When crisp they are ready to serve. Pour on them blond or veal gravy. CALF'S CHI-TTERLINGS. Cut into dice some bacon, a calf's udder, and the fat that comes from the chitterlings and calf's chawdron. Put them all into a stewpan, with a bay leaf, shallot, pepper, and salt; toss them up, take off the pan, and thicken it with 4 or 5 yolks of eggs and some bread-crumbs. Keep it warm and fill the chitterlings with it; tie up the other end and boil them; let them cool in their own liquor. When wanted boil them over a moderate fire. CALF'S CHITTERLINGS (Stewed). Cut a calf's chitterlings lengthways in slices about 1 inch wide. Take some ham, bacon, white part of chickens, and cut them in the same way. Put them into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, and spice; then, having cleansed the skins, cut and tie them, fill them with slices ; line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, pepper, salt, bay leaf, and an onion. Lay in the chitterlings, cover them with bacon and veal, pour in 1 pint of white wine, put the lid down quite close, and stew them with fire, above and below, for some time; then take out the puddings, and broil them in buttered papers. CALF'S EARS (Braised). Scald, blanch, and clean the ears thoroughly from the hairs, and braise them in the following manner:—Put some good stock into a small saucepan, svith i pint of white wine, i lemon sliced (witbout the peel), a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and some roots. Stew the ears in this, and cover them with bacon. When done serve with sauce piquante or d la ravigotte. CALF'S EARS (in Marinade). When you have prepared the number of ears you require, boil them in some blauc, and then throw them into cold water. When well drained cut each ear into 3 or 4 pieces ; put them into pickle made of vinegar, salt, and a bag of herbs ; drain again, and dip each piece into batter, and fry of a good colour. Before you place them in a dish they must be drained a third time. Garnish with fried parsley. CALF'S EARS (in Peas). When you have properly prepared four ears cook them in a little clear stock, lemon-juice, salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley, cloves, garlic, and a laurel leaf. When done serve them with a ragout of peas prepared as follows :—Put 1^ pint of peas, with a bit of butter, a little parsley, green onions, and a pincli of flour; moisten with gravy and stock into a saucepan, over a gentle fire, until sufBciently done ; put in a lump of sugar about the size of a walnut, a little salt, and a spoonful of cullis. Pour the whole over the ears. CALF'S EARS (Stuffed). Scald two or three pairs of calves' ears, and having blanched, cool and singe them; fill each ear with a good stuffing, and press it in well; dip the ears in egg, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Serve with clear gravy. _ CALF'S EARS AND CHEESE. Prepare six ears, and boil them with i glass of white wine, 1 glass of good stock, salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, garlic, 2 cloves, half a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and a bit of butter. As soon as they are done take out the ears, and let them drain; make a stuffing with a handful of dried bread-crumbs,[ 212 ) CAL CAL 1 pint of milic, and a little grated Gruyere cheese. Stir them over the fire until they thicken. When cold add a little butter, and the yolks of 4 raw eggs; beat all up together, and fill the ears, and dip them into hot butter. Cover them with equal quantities of bread-crumbs and grated cheese mixed together; place them in a dish and brown them. Serve without sauce. CALF'S EARS, RAGOtT OF (with Mush- EOOMs). Prepare and dress the ears the same as for IN Marinade, and when done drain and place them on your dish for table. Trim and toss up some mushrooms in butter, to which add 4 large spoonsful of veloute, and the same of consomme. Reduce this to half, thicken it with the yolks of 2 eggs, and pour it over the ears. CALF'S FEET (Boiled). Clean and skin the feet well, take out the large bones, boil them till tender, and serve with salt, pepper, vinegar, and sweet herbs. CALF'S FEET (Fried). Divide four calves' feet each in half, and boil them in flour and water; then soak them in butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, vinegar, garlic, shallot, parsley, green onions, thyme, and laurel. After they have laid some hours in this take them out, cover them well with flour, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. CALF'S FEET (Stewed). Divide each foot into 4 pieces; put them to stew with i pint of water, with a potato, an onion peeled and sliced thin, pepper, and salt. Simmer these ingre- dients for two hours gently. CALF'S FEET BLANC-MANGE. Pick all the black spots from two boiled feet; slice them into a stewpan, with ^ pint of mountain wine, and rather more water. Let them stew gently. Add the yolks of 3 eggs, beaten and strained, with J pint of cream and a little flour, a little lemon-peel and juice; sweeten with fine sugar, and strain into a dish. When nearly cold stick on the top some jar raisins, scalded to make ^hem plump, almonds blanched and cut into filips, citron, lemon, and orange-peel sliced. It may be put in a basin. When cold turn it out. CALF'S FEET BROTH. Boil the feet in as much water as will make a good jelly; then strain, and set the liquor on the fire again, with a little mace in it. Put about i pint of sack to 2 quarts of broth. Add ^ lb. of currants. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs, mix them with a little of the cold liquor, and thicken carefully over a slow fire ; put in a little salt, and then sweeten to your taste ; stir in a small piece of butter, and, just before you take it off, put to it the juice and peel of a fresh lemon. CALF'S FEET JELLY (1). Take the fat and bones from eight calves' feet, and soak them in water for Vn-ea or four hours; then boil them in 6 quarts of water, skimming often. When reduced to a third strain, and set it by to cooL When cold take every particle of fat from the top, and remove whatever may have settled at the bottom. Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it 2 quarts of white wine, mace, cin- namon, and ginger or not, as you please. Beat up the whites of 12 eggs with 3 lbs. of fine sugar; mix these well with the jelly; boil it gently, adding the juice of 2 lemons, and then strain it for use. CALF'S FEET JELLY (2). Wash and set on the fire in cold water the four feet of a calf, observing when they begin to boil to skim it well. Set them by the side of a hot stove to boil gently for several hours. When all the bones are sepa- rated pass the liquor through a silk sieve into a large basin or pan. When cold and a jelly, take all the fat from the top; wipe it well off with paper that not the least particle remain; then set it on the fire again to boil, skim it well, take it off, and let it stand while you beat up the whites of 6 eggs in a large stewpan, to which put a very small bit of lemon-peel, the juice of 4 lemons, clarified sugar to sweeten to your taste, and a bottle of Bucellas wine. Mix them well together, and examine the jelly that no fat may remain. If there should take it off the fire, and pour it in the stewpan with the wine and other things; set it on the fire, and continue stirring it till it boils, and let it boil very gently for three or four hours. Have your jelly bag washed very clean, place it in the stand over a large basin, and when the jelly is ready run it through several times till it looks clear and bright. When all is through set it over the fire once more till you see the white scum rise; skim that off, and when the jelly begins to boil it is ready to put into the mould. You may garnish your jelly as you fill it up with different kinds of grapes, &c., placed in the mould. CALF'S FEET FIE. Boil the feet in 3 quarts of water, with 3 or 4 blades of mace, gently till reduced to half, then take out the feet and drain them. Lay a good crust in a dish, and when you have boned the feet put half the meat in it; strew over ^ lb. of stoned raisins; lay on the rest of the meat; skim the liquor they are boiled in; sweeten, and add to it ■J pint of white wine. Pour all into a dish, cover it with crust, and bake it an hour and a half. CALF'S FEET PUDDING. Mince 1 lb. of calf's feet fine, first taking out the fat and the brine ; mix with it 1^ lb. of shred suet, the crumb of a small grated roll, the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites of 3 eggs well beaten, sufficient to moisten it, and sugar to your taste. Boil it nine hours. Serve with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. CALF'S HEAD. With a sharp knife cut all[ 213 ] CAL CAL the meat entire from the bone, cut out the tongue, and carefully take out the brains ; lay thera all in cold water for two or three hours. Mince very small 2 lbs. of lean veal and 1 lb. of beef suet, with the grated crumb of a penny loaf, some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix them well together, and bind it with the yolks of 4 eggs beaten up; re- serve as much forcemeat as will make twenty small balls. Wash the head clean, wipe it dry, and put the forcemeat into the inside. Close it, and tie it firmly with tape; put it into a stewpan with 2 quarts of gravy, ^ pint of white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover it closely, and let it stew gently. Boil the tongue, cut it into thin slices. Mince the brains with a little parsley and a table-spoonful of flour; add some pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg; beat 2 eggs, and mix with the brains. Drop it with a spoon in small cakes into a pan of boil- ing dripping, and fry them of a light brown colour. Fry the forcemeat balls, and drain them •with the cakes upon the back of a sieve before the fire. When the head has stewed till it is sufficiently tender put it into a dish, and take off the tape. Strain the gravy, and thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour of rice, and a little bit of butter. If not well seasoned add more salt and pepper ; put in the tongue, make it all hot, and pour it over the head. Garnish with brain cakes, forcemeat balls, and cut lemon. CALF S HEAD(Collaeed). Scald the skull of a fine head; clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil tender enough to remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper well mixed, season it high with these; put a thick layer of parsley, then a quantity of thick slices of ham, or a fine-coloured tongue skinned, and yolks of 6 eggs stuck about it. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can; put a cloth round and tie it with tape. Boil, and lay a weight on it. CALF'S HEAD (Collared like Brawn). Scald the head till the hair comes clean off; then cut it in two and take out the brains and eyes. Wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till the bones come out. Slice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even. Throw a handful of salt on them, and roll it up quite close as other collars. Boil it two hours. When cold lay it in a brawn pickle. CALF'S HEAD (Fricassee). If the head has been browned pare it off and prepare a fricassee sauce, with a little well-seasoned white stock of any kind ; put in the meat only to simmer, and finish it with egg and cream. To this may be added sweetbreads, kidneys, lights nicely simmered jn mace, butter, and lemon zest, mushrooms, oysters, &c. This is an elegant dish, with the tongue larded and roasted in the middle, with red or green forced tomatoes, chillis, intermixed wilh crayfish, or tufts of fine-coloured, rasped ham round the dish; or rounds of bacon the size of half-a- crown, with rasped lemon on them, make a beautiful garnish. Garnish should always be appropriate. CALF'S HEAD (Fried). Cut a cold calf's head into middling-sized pieces and put into a jar; pour on them a marinade; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour, drain them, dip each piece in batter, and fry them. Do not let the oil or lard they are fried in be too hot. CALF'S HEAD (German way). Take a large calf's head, with a great part of the neck cut with it; split in half, blanch it, and take out the jaw-bone. Lay slices of bacon at the bottom of the stewpan, then thin beefsteaks, with pepper, and salt; put in the head. Pour beef gravy over it; add a large onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it close and let it stew on a stove. Make a ragout with 1 quart of beef gravy, ^ pint of red wine some sweetbreads, parboiled and cut in slices, some cockscombs, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, and morels; stew them till tender. When the head is done put it into a dish, take out the brains, the eyes, and the bones; slit the tongue, and cut it into small pieces; do the same with the eyes, and chop the brains ; put these into a baking-dish, and pour some of the ragout over them ; then put the head, and pour the rest of the ragout over it, and melted butter, and over that scrape Parmesan cheese. Colour it a fine brown in the oven. CALF'S HEAD (Hashed), Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side nearly from the bone, and lay it in a small dish. Wash it over with the yolks of 2 eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, all mixed together previously. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts may be equally brown. In the mean- time slice the remainder of the head and the peeled tongue. Put a pint of good gravy into a pan with an onion, a small bunch of herbs, consisting of parsley, basil, savory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme, a little salt and Cayenne, a shallot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor; boil this for a few, minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. Add some fresh or pickled mushrooms, a few truffles and morels, and 2 spoonsful of catsup. Beat up half the brains and put them to the rest, with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some shred parsley,OAL [ SU ] and an egg; fry this in little cakes of a fine gold colour. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and fry the same way; also some good force- meat balls, and garnish the dish with them. CALF'S HEAD (Roasted). Cleanse the head well; bone and dry it. Make a seasoning of pepper, salt, beaten mace, nutmeg, cloves, and some fat bacon, cut very small and grated; strew it over the head; roll it up, skewer, and tie it with tape. Roast, and baste it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour. You may add mushrooms and oysters. Serve the head with this sauce. CALF'S HEAD (Roasted with Oystees). Prepare a head as for boiling; take out the tongue and brains, and parboil them; blanch the tongue, and mince both with a little sage, beef suet, or marrow, a few oysters, 4 or 5 egg yolks beaten, salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg, and grated bread. Parboil and dry the head, fill the scull and mouth with the above ingredients and oysters, tie it up, and roast it. Preserve its gravy, and put it, with some white wine, nutmeg, oysters, and sweet herbs minced, over a chafing- dish. Add butter, lemon-juice, and salt, and beat it up thick. Dish the head, and serve it with the sauce over it. CALF'S HEAD (Russian). Simmer it in sugar and water till the bones come out; keep the cheeks whole, and cut the remainder in pieces; put it, all but the cheeks, again into the stock; stew till it becomes a jelly. When there is just time to cook raisins put them in whole, nicely cleaned and rubbed in a cloth. Vinegar and more sugar, if necessary, are added to give it an agreeable taste. The tongue and brains are served up separately with a little of the gravy, thickened and seasoned with port wine and a very little whole pepper. CALF'S HEAD (Soused). Scald and bone a calf's head, and soak it for seven or eight hours, draining the water twice; dry it well. Season with salt and bruised garlic ; roll it up, bind it very tight, and boil it in white wine, salt, and water. When done put it with the liquor in a pan, and keep it for use. Serve up either whole or in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. CALF'S HEAD (Stewed). Wash a calf's head perfectly clean for an hour in water, and then bone it with the greatest care. Take out the tongue and eyes; chop up 2 lbs. of veal and the same of beef suet, with thyme, lemon- peel, and 2 anchovies, and a nutmeg and 2 stale rolls grated. Mix these together with the yolks of 4 eggs, I pint of fresh mushrooms, the yolks of 6 eggs chopped fine, and i pint of stewed oysters; put this forcemeat into the head close, and tie it up tight. Put it into a stewpan with 9 quarts of gravy and a little mace; cover the pan close, <Mid let it stew for two hours. In the meantime beat up the brains with shred parsley, lemon-peel half a grated nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg; fry half these in little cakes with the forcemeat balls, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy the head was boiled in, and boil in it ^oz. of truf- fles and morels, and a few mushrooms. Add the remainder of the brains, stew all together for a minute or two; then pour it over the head, and lay the fried brains and forcemeat balls round ; fry a few oysters, and place them on the head. Garnish with lemon. CALF'S HEAD (Stuffed). Bone a calf's head with great care; let the eyes remain in their proper places ; soak it, and then having blanched it, lay it in cold water; dry and singe it. Make some godiveau, and when about three parts done put in 2 spoonsful of reduced veloute, and rather more spice, shred parsley, and shallots than usual. Fill the head with this, and press it into its original form; sew it up, and rub it all over with lemon. Take a clean, fine cloth, spread thin slices of bacon over it, lay the head in them, wrap the cloth round, and tie it up tight. Put it into a brais- ing-pan, take a bit of butter, some grated bacon, 4 carrots, 5 onions, 3 cloves, 3 bay leaves, a little thyme, 2 sliced lemons, leaving out the seeds and the white. Set these over the fire, and when they become dry moisten them with 2 bottles of white wine. Add salt and pepper. Boil this sauce, and put it into the braising-pan with the head, winch should simmer three hours, with the fire above and below. At the end of that time feel the head with your finger, and if it be still firm, let it remain some time longer. W^hen sufficiently done take it out by the ends of the cloth, untie, and let it drain. Dish it, and pour on it the following ragout:—Put 4 ladles- ful of grande Esjiagnole, a bottle of white wine, and 2 ladlesful of consomme into a saucepan, and reduce it to half; then strain it into another sauce- pan, in which are some balls of godiveau, arti- chokes cooked as ablanc, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut in pieces, and crayfish. Keep this hot until the head should be sent to table, when the ragout must be poured over it. CALF'S HEAD (Surprise). Raise the skin, and as much meat as you can, from half a calf's head; make a forcemeat as follows:—Beat up in a mortar ^ lb. of veal, 1 lb. of beef suet, i lb. of fat bacon, the crumb of a small loaf, sweet herbs, shredded parsley, cloves, nutmeg, mace, salt, and Cayenne pepper. Bind these to- gether with the yolks of 4 eggs; stuff the skin with this, so that it may appear as if the bones were in; tie and skewer it tight, and put it into a deep pan, with 2 quarts of water, i pint of white wine, a little mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 anchovy, 2 spoonsful of walnut and mushroom catsup, the same of lemon pickle.CAL CAL [ 215 ] salt, and pepper. Cover the whole with a common paste, and bake it in a quick oven. When done, lay the head in a soup dish; take the fat from the gravy, and strain it into a stewpan. Add to it a bit of butter rolled in flour, and when it has boiled a few minutes, the yolks of 4 eggs and i pint of cream; pour this over the head. Garnish with boiled forcemeat balls, truffles, morels, and mushrooms. CALF'S HEAD PIE. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with 2 onions, a little isinglass, or a calf's foot, a bunch of herbs, mace, salt, and pepper, in 3 pints of water. Keep this when very good to put in the pie. Half boil a head, cut it into square bits; put a layer of ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first fat and then lean, with forcemeat balls and hard eggs, then ham, and so on till the dish is full. The pieces must not be too close. Season to your taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pour in some of the above-mentioned broth, and cover it with crust. Bake in a slow oven, and when done pour into it as much broth as it will possibly hold, and do not cut it till quite cold. CALF'S HEAD RAGOCT. Wash a calf's head, which, to make this dish in the best style, should have the skin on, and boil it. Boil one half of it all but enough, so that it may be soon quite done when put into the hash to warm.' Boil the other half quite tender, take out the bones, aod score it superficially. Beat up an egg, put it over the head with a paste-brush, and strew over it a little grated bread and lemon-peel, and thyme and parsley chopped very tine, or in powder, then bread-crumbs, and put it in the Dutch oven to brown. Cut the other half head into handsome slices, and put them into a stewpan with 1 quart of gravy or turtle sauce, forcemeat balls, egg balls, 1 wine-glassful of white wine, some catsup, &c. Put in the meat, let it warm together, and skim off the fat. Peel the tongue, and send it up with the brains round it as a side-dish; or beat them up in a basin with 1 spoonful of flour, 2 eggs, some grated lemon-peel, thyme, parsley, and a few leaves of very finely-minced sage. Bub them well together in a mortar, with pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg; fry them a very light brown. Dish up the hash with the half head you browned in the middle, and garnish with crisp or curled rashers of bacon, fried bread sippets, and the I31*9/1 H C9.1i63 CALF'S HEAD, PIQUANTE FOR. Pound 1 table-spoonful of capers, and 1 of minced parsley, as finely as possible; then add the yolks of 3 hard eggs, and rub them well together with 1 table-spoonful of mustard. Bone 6 anchovies and pound them, rub them through a hair sieve, and mix with 2 table-spoonsful of oil, 1 of vinegar, 1 of eschallot ditto, and a few grains of Cayenne pepper. Rub all these well together in a mortar till thoroughly incorporated; then stir them into ^ pint of good gravy or melted butter, and put the whole through a sieve. CALF'S HEAD, SAUCE FOR. Garlic vinegar, I table-spoonful; mustard, brown sugar, and black pepper, 1 tea-spoonful of each, stirred into i pint of oiled melted butter, CALF'S HEART (Roasted). Fill the heart vrith the following forcemeat:—J lb. of beef suet chopped small, grated bread, parsley, marjoram, lemon-peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Lay a veal caul or a sheet of paper on the stuffing to keep it in itSrplace. Put the heart into a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn it frequently till thoroughly roasted all round. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour melted butter over it. CALF'S KIDNEYS. Chop the kidney and some of the fat, season it with pepper and salt, and make it, with egg and bread-crumbs, into balls, which fry in lard or butter. Drain upon a sieve, and serve with fried parsley; or the lean of cold veal may be substituted for the kidney. CALF'S LIVER (Broiled). Slice it, sea- son with pepper and salt, and broil nicely. Rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve it hot or cold. CALF'S LIVER (en Ceepine). Cut two large onions into dice, and toss them over the fire with a bit of butter; mince a calf's liver and f lb. of beef suet; then put them into a mortar with the onions, some dried bread-crumbs, i pint of milk, salt, pepper, mushrooms, 4 yolks of eggs and 4 whites whipped. Pound these well together. Place slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, and over them a pig's caul pre- viously soaked in cold water, squeezed quite dry with the hand. Put all the pounded materials in this; wet the edges with the white of an egg to make them unite; place a sheet of paper over it, and cover the pan close. Stew it gently in hot cinders half an hour, then drain the fat from it, wipe the caul carefully with a linen cloth, and then place it in your dish. Serve with clear sauce, adding to it a little verjuice. CALF'S LIVER (Etouffade). Lard across as for roasting; put it into a braise in which there is garlic and basil, besides the other sweet herbs, stock, and wine. Let it boil, skim, cover with bacon and paper; put on the cover, and set it upon a hot hearth for two hours. Strain, and reduce some of the sauce; thicken with flour and butter. Lemon-juice, anchovies, or catsup may be used. CALF'S LIVER (Gbilled). Cut the liver into thin slices, which put on the gridiron, sprinkling them with salt and pepper, and turn- ing them occasionally. Take them off before[ 216 J CAL C AL they are much done, and serve by two slices, the one above the other, putting between each a piece of butter rolled in chopped parsley. CALF'S LIVER (Hashed). Take 2 lbs. of liver, i lb. of fillet of veal, i lb. of beef, i lb. of fresh pork, ^Ib. of bacon, a piece of beef marrow the size of a walnut, an oniun, a clove of garlic, parsley, chives, chervil, and a few mushrooms. Mix, and chop them small, together with a clove pounded, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Add also ^ lb. of sausage-meat, cover it with slices of bacon, shape it into a round form, and put it into a Dutch oven upon a buttered dish. It requires two hours' baking. Serve with a roux mixed with its own gravy. You may if you like spread it with crumbs of bi'ead, or use it as forcemeat in paste. CALF'S LIVER (Roasted). Lard a calf's liver with streaky bacon. Roast, and baste it frequently with its own gravy. CALF'S LIVER (Saute). Cut a calf's liver in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and make each slice of an oval form. When thus prepared season them with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs. Put ^Ib. of butter into your tossing-pan, and warm it; then lay in your liver, and, as soon as one side is brown, tmn it and do the other. When all are done put them into a saucepan, take the butter from the tossing- pan, and put into it a glass of Champagne and 4 ladlesful of Espagnole; reduce them to half, strain it over your liver, and heat the whole together. ■ Dish the liver en couronne, and pour the sauce over. CALF'S LIVER (Scalloped). Take a very nice white liver, and cut it in slices pared in the shape of hearts. Then stew some fine herbs, parsley, shallots, and rriushrooms, for a little time; toss up the liver in it over a gentle fire; season it, and when done on one side turn it on the other. Dish the liver; put a little flour with the herbs, moisten them with a little gravy and broth, and let them stew for ten minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and cover the liver that you have dished m miroton. CALF'S LIVER (Stewed). Cut a very good calf's liver into slices an inch thick, melt some butter in a frying-pan, and then put in the liver and brown it well on both sides; season it well. Take it from the pan, and set it to stew with the butter and chopped parsley, scallions, shallots, garlic, and a little flour. ' Moisten it with ^ pint of wine. Give the sauce a boil, and when ready to serve add a little vinegar. CALF'S LIVER (Stuffed). Take a very fine calf's liver, and lard it with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with 4 sorts of spice, pepper, salt, shrfid parsley, and onions. Lay slices of bacon at the bottom and round a braising or etewpau. Put in the liver, with 4 .carrots, 4 onions, one of them stuck with clones, 3 bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, salt, and a bottle of white wine. Cover it with bacon and paper, and place it over a stove. When it boils cover the stove, put the pan on again, with ashes on. the lid, and let it simmer for two hours. When done strain the liquor, and put 4 spoonsful of it with 4 of poivrade. Reduce them to half, and pour this sauce over the liver. CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. Pare and trim the bacon, and fry it, and in its fat fry the liver in thickish slices, floured. Then lay both in a dish, and pour over them gravy made as follows:—Empty the pan, and put into it a small piece of butter, a little broth or water, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and warm to gether. Garnish with fried parslev. CALF'S LIVER A LA BOURGEOISE. ■ Cut a calf's liver in slices, and put them in a stewpan, with shallot, parsley, and green onions cut small, and a piece of butter. Sliake it over the fire, and dredge it in a little flour. Moisten with a tumblerful of water, and as much of white wine, salt, and pepper. Boil it for half an hour. When quite done, and the sauce nearly consumed, put in the yollis of 3 eggs, previously beaten with 2 spoonsful of vinegar Thicken it over the fire, and serve. CALF S LIVER A LA BRAISE. Lard a calf's liver with bacon, seasoned with garlic, fine herbs, salt, and pepper. Put it into a stewpan, with ^ pint of water, some slices of bacon, part of a calf's foot, a bunch of parsley, onions, thyme, and bay leaves, salt, pepper, and spices, an onion stuck with cloves, and w glass of wine. Cover the stewpan perfectly close. When it begins to boil cover the fire with hot cinders, and let the liver continue stewing gently by it three or four hours. To prevent its burning lay sticks on the bottom of the pan, and put the liver on it. Skim oflf the fat, and strain the sauce. Serve cold in its own jelly. CALF'S LIVER CAKE. Mince and pound together a calf's liver, ^ lb. of suet, and ^Ib. of bacon ; then mix them with some chopped onions and mushrooms tossed up in butter, the yolks of 6 eggs, the whites well whisked, salt, pepper, and a glass of brandy. Line an iron saucepan with slices of bacon; place the above preparation and some sliced truffles on them, and cover the whole with bacon. Put the saucepan on a gentle fire, with ashes on the lid. When done take it off; let it cool in the saucepan. Dip it in boil ing water; loosen the cake, turn it on a dish, and remove the bacon from it. Sprinkle it with raspings, and serve it. CALF S LIVER CAKE (Cold). Pound a calf's liver, an equal quantity of bacon, and a fourth part of boiled ham; pass them throughCAL CAL [ 217 ] a quenelles sieve into a pan, with a cold boiled calf's udder, an equal propoi'tion of tongue a rScadate, truffles, and mushrooms, cut into , dice. Mix with them 8 eggs, a glass of brandy, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Finish your cake as above, and bake it four hours in a moderate oven. Let it cool before you turn it out. Remove the bacon, trim and glaze the cake with veal jelly, with which garnish your cake. CALF S LIVER CAKE (Hot). Pound a calf's liver and an equal quantity of calf's udder as above, put them into a pan, cut some onion into dice, scald and toss it up in a little butter and consomme, and when cold mix it with the liver, udder, mushrooms, truffles, and more udder cut into dice. Stir in 8 eggs, one at a time. The whole being well mixed, put it into a plain round mould well buttered, cover it with a round piece of buttered paper, and let it stand in a bain marie, with hot ashes under and above, for two hours. When ready to serve turn it on a dish for the table; drain away the water; glaze it. Serve it hot with a pepper sauce. CALF S LIVER A L'lTALIENNE. Cut a calf's liver in thin slices, with parsley, scal- lions, mushrooms, half a clove of garlic, 2 shal- lots, all chopped fine, half a bay leaf, thyme, and. basil pounded. Put a layer of the liver at the bottom of a stewpan, then salt, pepper, oil, and some of the above seasoning; then another laj er of liver, season as before, and so on till you have used all your liver. Stew it for about an hour, and then take it out with a skimmer. Clear away the fat from the sauce, and put in a. bit of butter and a little verjuice or vinegar; thicken it over the fire, stirring it constantly. Put the liver into this to heat again, and then serve. CALF'S LIVER PUDDING. Cut part of a calf's liver into dice; mince the rest with hog's fat; season with salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, pounded cinnamon and cloves, and sweet herbs, and bind them with the yolks of 6 eggs and 1 quart of cream. Put them into skins like black-puddings, and boil them over a slow fire in white wine, with salt and bay leaves. Let them cool in this liquor, and when wanted broil, and serve very hot. CALF S PLUCK. The pluck comprehends the heart, the lights, and spleen. Cut these in pieces, soak them well in cold water, and blanch them; then put them in a stewpan, with a little butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; add a little flour, and moisten it with stock. When done and well flavoured, put to it the yolks of 3 eggs diluted with milk; thicken it over the fl^e, and when ready to serve put in a little verjuice. CALF'S STOMACH. This is used for curdling the milk in the manufacture of cheese. After being well washed with water let it be soaked in vinegar for two hours, then well dried, and hung up in a bag in a dry place until required. See Rknnkt. CALF'S TONGUE must hang till tender; lard and season it moderately, and boil it. It may be dressed in any form, and served with what sauce you please. CALF'S "tongue (with Satice Piquante). Soak 8 calves' tongues, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour; then cool, trim, and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Put the tongues in a braise, or stew them with carrots, onions, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and a ladleful of stock. They will require three hours' cooking. When done take off the skins, glaze, and place them round a dish with an oval crouton in the centre. Ser~ve with sauce piquante. CALF'S TONGUE AU MIROTON. Pre- pare and lard as above. Braise it. When done and cold cut it in slices. Put it in a stewpan with mushrooms and sweet herbs, moistened with veal gravy or blood. When done add a little vinegar. CALICO, so called from Calicut, in Hin- dostan, formerly celebrated for its cotton man- ufacture, is the name applied in England to uudyed cotton cloth. In America it is applied to cotton cloth dyed with no more than two coloui's. White calico, in England, is also called cotton cloth; remnants of this sewn together are called fents; a superior kind is called long cloth; a stouter kind is named duck, and double varp is still stouter and much used for night shirts. Calico shirting is used for day shirts, and a superior kind of this is denominated patent twist. For bedding s/teeUji^r calico is preferable to linen, especially in cold weather, and at all times for persons liable to cramp. In buying calico examine whether the threads are straight and evenly woven, for if not it is inferior. Buy the undressed, if you can, other- wise purchase half a yard, and wash it, for the limy dressing put on by the manufactui'er often prevents the quality being ascertained until the dressing is removed. Before sewing glazed cotton, when so stiff as to impede the needle, rub a cake of white soap over it three or four times, after which the needle will pass through it freely. For restoring the colour of calico see Bleach- ing. Printed calico furniture is very liable to fade if exposed to a strong light. It should be shaded, therefore, by keeping the blinds or shutters closed as much as can be conveniently. Cx\LOMEL, or Subchlokide of Mercury, is without smell, tasteless,and of an ivory colour, which deepens by exposure to the light. This mercurial preparation is more extensively andCAL L 218 3 CAM more usefully employed than almost any other article in the whole range of the materia medica. It is capable of curing syphilis in every form, provided it does not run off by the bowels; and in obstructions and liver affections it is in well- regulated doses a most valuable remedy. When combined with certain diuretics it is diuretic; and in sudorific arrangements it is sudorific. It, moreover, imparts force to many of the mild, and moderates the severity of drastic medicines. Whenever we wish a strong and permanent impression to be made on the alimentary canal, and through it on the neighbouring viscera or the system generally, calomel, by universal consent, is adopted for such a purpose. In larger doses it is one of the most efficient purga- tives which we possess, especially in combination with other cathartics; it appears to be particularly ehgible in the diseases of children; and it is singular that infants can generally bear larger doses of it than adults. JJose, as an alterative, from | gram to 1 gram, night and morning; as a purgative, from 2 grains to 10 grains, or in some cases even to 15 grains or 1 scruple. It must be given in a pill, its in- solubility and specific gravity render any other form ineligible. CALVES' TAILS must always be scalded; if for fricandeaux lard and braise them; they may then be served with any sauce, and in any way you choose. CALVES' TAILS (en Tekrine). Divide seven or eight calves' tails at the joints, toss them up in some butter, taking care not to colour them; theu add 4 small spoonsful of flour, mix them well, and put in 4 ladlesful of consomme, and stir the ragout till it boils. Skim it well, put to it a small basket of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and some scallions. When it is about three parts done skim off all the fat, and when quite done take out the pieces of tails and the mushrooms with a spoon with holes in it, and put them into another saucepan. Add to the sauce a ladleful of veloute, and when properly reduced strain it over the tails. Poach some veal quenelles, put them into your tureen ; toss up some shoulder of veal kernels, and veal sweet- breads cut in pieces, in a little butter, and having drained them, put them also into the tureen. Thicken your ragout with 5 yolks of eggs, stir them in over the stove, but do not let it boil. As soon as you find it sufficiently thick pour it into the tureen over the quenelle and other articles, which must be kept hot. CALVES' TAILS AU BLANC. Prepare some calves' tails as en Tebeine, and having mixed the flour with them, moisten with water. Put to them a bunch of parsley and scallions, 2 bay leaves, mushrooms, salt, and a little pep- per. Skim as directed in the above-mentioned recipe, add some small onions, and let it simmer, but not boil. When ready to serve thicken it with the yolks of 4 eggs. This ragout may be made brown as well as white; it is coloured with a roux. CALVES' TAILS AND CABBAGE. Scald calves' tails and pickled pork; scald also a good savoy for about half an hour. Take it out, press aU the water from it, cut it in quarters, tie it, and braise all together in stock, with slices of bacon, spices, and herbs. When done take them out and clear away the fat. Serve with good thick cuUis. CAMBRIC, a very fine linen fabric, made from flax. It was originally made at Cambray, in the Netherlands, and thence derived its name. It is manufactured chiefly in Ireland, near Bel- fast. French cambric is beautifully silky ; it is imported in pieces yards long. Cambric pocket-handkerchiefs are of three sizes, viz., 5-8tbs, 3-4ths, and 7-8ths of a yard square. IScotck cambric is made of cotton. CAMLET was so called from being formed of the hair of the camel, but now it is a stuff made of wool, silk, and sometimes of hair, especially that of goats combined with the first- mentioned substances. In some the warp con- sists of wool and silk, and the woof of hah\ The real oriental camlet is made from the hair of the Angora goat. There are no camlets made in Europe of goats' hair alone. France, Hol- land, Flanders, and England are the chief places where this manufacture is carried on. Those of Brussels are allowed to be of the finest quality, and those of England stand next in repute. These articles are of various kinds, which are denominated figured camlets, watered camlets, waved camlets, &c. Camlet formerly was much worn, and its warmth rendered it very appropriate for ladies' winter clothing. It resists wet better than any unprepared stuff. CAMOMILE {Anthemis noUlis). The flowers of this plant ai'e among the standards of domestic medicine. They possess the tonic and stomachic qualities usually ascribed to simple bitters, having very little astringency, but a strong odour of the aromatic and penetrating land, from which they are also judged to be carminative, emme- nagogue, and, in some measure, antispasmodic and anodyne. They have been guccessfully em- ployed for the cure of intermittents, as well as of fevers of the irregular, nervous kind, accom- panied with visceral obstructions, for which we have the authority of Sh- John Pringle. That camomile flowers, in doses from i drachm to 2 drachms, may be effectually substituted for Peruvian bark in the cm-e of intermittent fevers, appears from the testimony of several respectable physicians, and to which we may add that of Dr. CuUen, who says, " I haveCAM [ 2 9 ] CAM employed these flowers, and, agreeable to the method of Hoffman, by giving several times during the intermission from | drachm to 1 drachm of the flowers in powder, have cured intermittent fevers. I have found, however, that the flowers were attended with this incon- venience, that, given in a large quantity, they readily run off by stool, defeating thereby the purpose of preventing the return of paroxysms ; and I have found, indeed, that, without joining with them an opiate or an astringent, I could not commonly employ them." These flowers have been found useful in hysterical affections, flatulent or spasmodic colics, and dysentery, but from their laxative quality. Dr. CuUen tells us, they proved hurtful in diarrhoeas. A simple, watery infusion of them is frequently taken, in a tepid state, for the purpose of exciting vomiting, or for promoting the operation of emetics. Ex- ternally, the flowers are used for fomentations, and they are an ingredient in enemas. One cupful of cold camomile tea (1 oz. of flowers to 1 quart of hot water) taken before breakfast, is an excellent strengthener of the digestion. In applying camomile flowers as a fomentation, pour only enough boiling water upon them to soak them thoroughly, then roll them up in flannel and apply them. They remain hot a long time. Dr. Schall states that camomile flowers, taken either as an electuary or as tea at night, are a certain preventive of the night- mare. CAMOMILE DROPS are formed of 1 pint of rectified spirit of wine, and 1 oz. of essential oil of camomile. Given ia doses of from 5 to 20 drops it acts as a stimulant to torpid stomachs. Camomile pills are formed of the flowers pov/- dered and made into a, mass with lenitive electuary. CAMP DISH. Take any joint of mutton, put it into a pot with a good many onions cut small, and as many vegetables as can be obtained to add to it, 2 table-spoonsful of vinegar, and 5 of port wine. Season it with black and red pepper. Add 1 spoonful of flour, and, if at hand, 4 dessert- spoonsful of Harvey's sauce, and essence of ancho- vies. Cover the meat with water, and let it stew an hour and a half. It should be stirred fre- quently to prevent it from burning, as there should be only sufficient water to cook it. CAMP PUDDING. Put into a saucepan i pint of water, J- lb. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of brown sugar, and add the peel of half a lemon or orange. Let it j ust come to a boil, then take it off, and stir in I lb. of sifted flour. Mix it per- fectly smooth, and when cold beat in 4 well- beaten eggs. Half fill 12 yellow tea-cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, sugar, and butter, in a sauce tureen. CAMP VINEGAR. Take a head of garlic cut in shces, ^ oz. of Cayenne, a large glass of soy, and 1 of catsup or walnut pickle, some spirit of cochineal, and 1 pint of distilled vinegar. Shake it often during five or six weeks, and strain or filter it for use. It ought to be kept in small, well-sealed bottles. CAMPHOR when produced naturally is from such trees as Cinnamomum camphora and Dryo- balanops camphora, but it is prepared artificially in large quantities from oil of turpentine by forcing through it muriatic acid gas. In do- mestic purposes it is used for keeping away moths and other insects from clothes and dried specimens of natural history objects. Mixed ■with copal it renders it more easily soluble in spirit of wine and essential oils. It gives out white light when mixed with the mealed gun- powder of fireworks. It is an ingredient in the best sealing-wax. As a medicine it is preferable in the form of mixture, since it is very liable in the solid state to excite nausea, and, from swim- ming on the contents of the stomach, to occasion pain at its upper orifice. If a larger dose be re- quired than that which water can dissolve, an addi- tional proportion may be suspended by means of sugar, almonds, yolk of egg, or mucilage, for which purpose three times its weight of gum arabic is required. If camphor be first dissolved by tri- turation in a very small portion of oil it readily mixes with mucilage of gum arabic, and may then be conveniently blended with liquids. It has also the propeity of uniting with gum resins, and of converting them into permanently soft and uniform masses. Hence they may some- times be conveniently applied for difi'using it in water. It may be formed into pill-masses by stiff mucilage, fetid gums, or by a confection. In moderate doses it exhilarates without raising the pulse, and gives a tendency to perspiration, and under certain conditions of the body, when opium fails, it promotes sleep. As its effects are transient its dose should be repeated at short intervals. Camphor is said to correct the bad effects of opium, mezereon, Spanish flies, and the drastic purgatives and dim'etics. Dose, 2 grains to 1 scruple. In excessive doses it occasions anxiety, vomiting, fainting, and delirium; these violent effects are best counteracted by opium. CAMPHOR JULEP. Take of camphor, 1 drachm ; rectified spirit of wine, 10 drops ; double-refined sugar, i oz.; boiling distilled water, 1 pint. Rub the camphor first with the spirit of wine, then with the sugar; lastly, add the water by degrees, and strain the liquor. In hysterical and other complaints, where camphor is proper, this julep may be taken in the dose of a spoonful or two as often as the stomach will bear it.CAN [ 220 J CAM CAMPHOR MIXTURE. Put 10 drops of spirit of wine on ^ drachm of camphor; rub them together in a marble mortar, tlien gradu- ally add, stirring at the time, 1 pint of water. Strain it through linen. CAMPHOR OIL, for rubbing on polished fireirons, is made by warming in ^ pint of sweet oil i oz. of camphor, broken into small pieces. Shake it until the camphor is dissolved, and keep it in a bottle well corked. CAMPHORATED SPIRIT, or Spirits op Camphor. Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in 1 pint of rectified spirits. This solution is chiefly employed as an embrocation in bruises, palsies, the chronic rheumatism, and for preventing gan- grenes. The above quantity of camphor, dis- solved in I lb. of the volatile aromatic spirit, makes Ward's essence. CANADA BALSAM, or Canadian Turpen- tine, is obtained from the balm of Gilead fir {Pinus halsamea). It is no more than a very fine, pale, liquid turpentine, and, mixed with half its weight of common spirit of turpentine, it makes a very good colourless varnish for card fire-screens, &c. CANAPES. Cut some slices of bread about an inch thick, and, having taken off the crusts, form the crumb into whatever shapes you may think proper, such as hearts, squares, lozenges, &c. Fry them in good olive oil to a nice colour, and drain them. Take some anchovies, hard eggs (the yolks and whites separate), gherkins, capers, &c.; chop them small, place them on the fried bread (having previously seasoned them with salt and vinegar), and pour over the whole. Serve this as a side-dish. CANAPES (with Pistachios). Make the canapes according to the above directions. When glazed whip up the white of an egg with 1 oz. of fine sugar; cover the canapes with this, and then mark them with pistachio nuts chopped small. Garnish them with apple jelly. The canapes may be glazed or marked with any. sort of sweetmeat or jelly you may think proper to use. CANAPIES. Cut some pieces of the crumb of bread about 4 inches long, 3 inches wide, and 1 inch thick. Fry them in boiling lard till of a light brown colour; then put them on a drainer, and cut into slips some breast of fowl, anchovies picked from the bone, pickled cucumbers, and ham or tongue. Then butter the pieces of bread on one side, and lay upon them alternately the different articles till filled. Trim the edges, and put the pieces (cut into ■what form you please) upon a dish, with slices of lemon round the rim, and serve in a sauce- boat a little mixture of oil, vinegar, C^.yenne pepper, and salt. CANARY. This wine is made in Canaria, one of the Canary Islands, close to the north- west coast of Africa. It is of the Malmsey character, but not so full-bodied as Teneriffe. CANARY, ARTIFICIAL. Fill a cask that has contained good Malaga wine with spring water, and for each gallon of water put G lbs. of bruised Malaga raisins, and over eveiy 20 gal- lons sprinkle a handful of calx wine. Close the cask, cover it with cloths, and let it stand four or five days in a warm place to ferment; then open it, and should the raisins float press them down ; cover it again, and let it stand a month, looking at it, and pressing down the raisins as above, every four or five days. At the month's end tap the vessel a few inches above the bottom, and if the liquor is properly flavoured draw it off into another Malaga cask, and to every 20 gallons add 1 pint of brandy, 1 quart of Alicant wine, and 2 eggs well beaten, and let it stand till ready for drinking. A little loaf-sugar may be added if not sufficiently sweet. Put into the whole a small quantity of white wine or good cider to made it brisk. CANCER. It is quite true that we have heard from medical men, who acknowledged themselves unable to cure this distressing dis- ease, that, from personal observation, they know a blacksmith, Hear Reading, in Berkshire, who has cured numerous cases. We record this, but are bound to add that we know of no surgeon who advocates anything but the eai-Iiest possible submission to an operation. If a hard, indolent tumour, usually seated in some of the glands of the breast, but frequently occurring on the lips, and other parts, even internally, becomes large, unequal, of a livid, blackish, or leaden colour, and is attended with violent pain, it gets the name of an occult cancer. When the skin is bi'oken, and a sanies or ichorous matter, of an abominably fetid smell, is discharged from the sore, it is called an open or ulcerated cancer. Persons after the age of forty-five, particularly women, and those who lead an indolent, sedentary life, are most subject to this disease. A cancer is an ulcer of the very worst kind, with an uneven surface and ragged and painful edges, which spreads in a very rapid mannei', discharges a thin, acrimonious matter that excoriates the neighbouring skin and has a very fetid smell, and which is usually preceded by a hard oi scirrhous swelling of the part, if glandular. This disease is often owing to suppressed evacuations. Hence it proves so frequently fatal to women of a gross habit, particularly old maids and widows. It may likewise be occasioned by excessive fear, grief, anger, melancholy, or any of the depressing passions. Hence the un- fortunate, the choleric, and those persons who devote themselves to a religious life in convents or monasteries are often afflicted with it. , ItCAN C 221 ] CAN may also be occasioned by the long-continued use of food that, is too hard of digestion or of an acrid nature ; by barrenness, celibacy, indo- lence, cold, external injui-ies, friction, pressure, or the like. Women often suffer from the last of these by means of their stays, which squeeze and compress their breasts so as to occasion great mischief. Sometimes the disease is owing to an hereditary disposition. This disorder seems often very trifling at the beginning. A hard tumour, about the size of a hazel-nut, or perhaps smaller, is generally the first symptom. This will often continue for a long time without seeming to increase, or giving the patient great uneasiness ; but if the consti- tution be weakened, or the tumour irritated by pressure or improper treatment of any kind, it begins to extend itself towards the neighbouring parts, by pushing out a kind of roots or limbs. It then gets the name of cancer, from a fancied resemblance between these limbs and the claws of a crab. The colour of the skin begins to change, which is first red, afterwards purple, then bluish, livid, and at last black. The patient complains of heat, with a burning, gnawing, shooting pain. The tumour is very hard, rough, and unequal, with a protuberance, or rising, in the middle. Its size increases daily, and the neighbouring veins become thick, knotty, and of a blackish colour. The skin at length gives way, and a thin shar-p ichor begins to flow, which corrodes the neighbouring parts till it forms a large, unsightly ulcer. More occult cancers arise and communi- cate with the neighbouring glands. The pain and stench become intolerable, the appetite fails, the strength is exhausted by a continual hectic fever. At last a violent discharge of blood from some part of the body, with faintings or con- vulsion fits, generally put an end to the patient's life. The diet ought to be light but nourishing. All strong liquors and high-seasoned or salted provisions are to be avoided. The patient may lake as much exercise as he can easily bear, and should use every method to divert thought and tmuse his fancy. All kinds of external injuiy are carefully to be guarded against, particularly of the affected part, which ought to be defended from all pressure, and even from the external air, by covering it with fur or soft flannel. One misfortune attending the disease is, that the patient often conceals it too long. Were proper means used in due time a cancer might often be prevented; but after the disorder has arrived at a certain height it generally sets all medicine at defiance. When a scirrhous tumour is first discovered the patient ought to observe a proper regimen, and to take twice or thrice a '.veek a dose of the common purging mercurial pill. Some blood may also be let, and the part affected may be gently rubbed twice a day with a little of the mercurial ointment, and kept warm with fur or flannel. The food must be light, and an English pint of the decoction of woods or sarsaparilla may be drank daily. To allay pain and irritation, and, probably, thereby retard the progress of the disease, opium may be given internally, and likewise applied externally, mixed with the different preparations of lead used as sedatives and discutients. Take cerate of superacetate of lead, 1 oz.; opium, in powder, ^ drachm ; mix them for an ointment. Or take a plaster of the oxide of lead, and apply it to the tumour. Much may be done in all incipient scirrhous tumours by repeatedly blister- ing the part, having first had recourse to the frequent applications of leeches, occasional pur- gatives, and a cooling diet. Should the tumour, however, not yield to this treatment, but, on tlie contrary, become larger and harder, it will be proper to extirpate it either by the knife or caustic. Indeed, whenever this can be done with safety the sooner it is done the better. It can answer no purpose to extir- pate a cancer after the constitution is ruined, or the whole mass of humours corrupted by it. This, however, is the common way, which makes the operation so seldom succeed. Scirrhous tumours are often removed with perfect safety, and thereby prevented from degenerating into true cancer, when extirpation is not delayed too long; but after a tumour of this description has ulcerated, thereby assuming the cancerous character, and has afforded an opportunity fox* an absorption of the matter into the system, there is every reason to suppose that a complete cure seldom, if ever, is effected. When the cancer is so situated that it cannot be taken away, or, if the patient will not submit to the operation, such medicines as will mitigate or relieve the most urgent symptoms may be used. Dr. Home says that half a grain of the cori'osive sublimate of mercury, dissolved in a proper quantity of brandy, and taken night and morning, will often be of service in cancers of the face and nose. He likewise recommends an infusion of the solanum, or nightshade, in cancers of the breast. But the medicine most in repute at present for this disease is hemlock. Dr. Stork, physician, at Vienna, strongly re- commended the extract of this plant as very efficacious in cancers of every kind. The doctor says he has administered it in hundreds of cases, and often with manifest advantage. He advises the patient, however, to begin with very small doses, as 2 or 3 grains, and to increase the dose gradually till some good ef?'ect be perceived, and there to rest without further increase. From 2 or 3 grains at first the doctor says he hasCAN CAN [ 222 ] increasGd tlie dose to 2, 3, or 4 drachms a day, mi finds that such doses may be continued for several weeks without any bad consequences. The regimen which the doctor recommends during the use of the medicine is, to avoid farinaceous substances not fermented, and too acrid aromatics. He says good wine will not be hurtful to those who are accustomed to it, nor a moderate use of acids; and adds that the patient should live in a pure, free air, and keep his mind as quiet and cheerful as possible. The doctor does not pretend to fix the time in which a cancer may be resolved by the use of hemlock, but says he has given it for above two years in lai'ge doses without any apparent benefit; nevertheless the patient has been cured by per- sisting in the use of it for half a year longer. This is at least encouragement to give it a fair trial. Though we are far from thinking the hemlock merits those extravagant encomia which the doctor has bestowed upon it, yet, in a disease which has so long baffled the boasted powers of medicine, we think it ought always to be tried, at least during the occult or scir- rhous state. Deadly nightshade and henbane are medicines of the same class with hemlock, and the timely use of them has sometimes proved advantageous in glandular tumours and indura- tions that are likely to become cancerous. These have also been employed with others of the narcotic class, in external applications, as well as the hemlock. When used in this way tho leaves may be boiled in milk, so as to form a decoction sufficiently strong with which the part is to be frequently fomented. The powder of hemlock is by some preferred to the extract. They are both made of the fresh leaves, and may be used nearly in the same manner. Dr. Nicholson, of Berwick, says he gradually increased the dose of the powder from a few grains to half a drachm, and gave nearly four drachms of it in a day with remarkably good effects. The hemlock may also be used externally either as a poultice or fomentation. The sore may likewise be kept clean by injecting daily a strong decoction of the tops of leaves into it. Few things contribute more to the healing of foul, sordid ulcers of any kind than keeping Ihem thoroughly clean. This ought never to be neglected. The best application for this purpose seems to be-the carrot poultice. The root of the common carrot may be grated and moistened with as much water as will bring it to the consistence of a poultice. This must be applied to the sore and renewed twice a day. It generally cleans the sore, eases the pain, and takes away the disagreeable smell, which are objects of no small importance in such a disorder. In every species of open cancer the air should be excluded as much as possible. A donblfl covering of oil-silk may therefore be applied over the dressings. Wort, or an infusion of malt, has been recom- mended, not only as a proper drink, but as a powerful medicine in this disease. It must be frequently made fresh, and the patient may take it at pleasure. Two, three, or even four English pints of it may be drank every day for a con- siderable time. No benefit can be expected from any medicine in this disease, unless it be per- sisted in for a long time. It is of too obstinate a nature to be soon removed ; and, when it admits of a cure at all, it must be brought about by inducing an almost total change of the habit, which must always be a work of time. Setons, or issues in the neighbourhood of the cancer, have sometimes good effects. A cancerous ulcer of the tongue has been cured by nitric acid and opium, which had resisted various remedies. Take diluted nitric acid, 1 oz.; honey, 2 ozs.; pure watei', 2 pints; mix. Three table- spoonsful are to be taken frequently throughout the day. An opiate was given at night; and the acid, to prevent it from corroding the teeth, was directed to be sucked through a tube. In fourteen days after the exhibition of this medi- cine, healthy granulations were seen to shoot out from the bottom of the ulcer, which gradu- ally healed from this time; and in the course of three months, although half the tongue had been in a state of ulceration, was perfectly healed. Nothing was applied to the diseased part, but a lotion composed of the extract of hemlock, rectified spirit and water, to which little or no ef&cacy was ascribed. As a topical application in external cancer, such as of the lip, breast, &c., lint dipped in a solution of borax and applied to the ulcerated surface, removing it as often as it becomes dry, has been frequently attended with a good effect. Take solution of subborate of soda, 3 drachms; extract of henbane, 2 drachms ; distilled water, made warm, 8 ozs. Make a lotion to be applied to the part affected. When all other medicines fail recourse must be had to opium as a kind of solace. This wiU not, indeed, cure the disease, but it will ease the patient's agony, and render life more tolerable while it continues. To avoid this disorder people ought to use wholesome food; to take sufficient exercise in the open air; to be as easy and cheerful as possible; and carefully to guard against all blows, bruises, and every kind of pressure upon the breasts or other glandular parts. CANDIED FRUITS AND FLOWERS. The first step in this process is to clarify the sugar, which is done thus:—Take the finest kind, break it into large lumps, and put it into aCAN CAN [ 223 ] preserving-pan. If for syrup, add 1 pint of cold water to each pound; if for candying, 2 wine- glassesful to the pound will be sufficient. Seat the white of an egg, add it to the water, mix it well, and pour it over the sugar—1 egg is enough for 12 lbs. of sugar if it is fine, or 2 if it is coarse. When the sugar is nearly melted stir it well, and put it over a gentle fire. Do not stir it after the scum begins to rise. Let it boil five minutes, take it off the fire, let it stand a minute or two, and then take the scum carefully off. Put the pan again on the fire, and, when the syrup begins to boil, throw it in a little cold water, which should be kept back for the purpose. Boil till the scum rises, draw it off the fire, and skim it as before; repeat this till quite clear, and it is then fit for use. It is by long boiling that the different degrees are acquired which the confectioner re- quires {see Clarifying). A simple method of candying is to lay some fruits from syrup into a clean sieve, to dip it quickly into hot water, and then put the fruit into_ a fine cloth to drain; sift over it refined sugar, and dry on sieves in a moderate oven. A little powdered alum dis- solved in water, and put into the syrup of pre- serves, when a full quantity of sugar, will some- times prevent their candying. The only secret in storing preserves is to exclude the air from them, and to set them in a dry place, not placing the pots on each other. All fruits for preserving should be gathered in dry weather; but as tl)is is not always practicable, much inconvenience may be obviated by boiling the fruit for jellies and jams long before the sugar is added. By so doing the watery particles will evaporate, and the presei-ve will be better flavoured by the sugar not being too long on the fire. Fruit intended for candying must be first preserved and dried in a stove before the fire, that none of the syrup may remain in it. Sugar intended for the use of candying must be thus prepared :—Put into a tossing-pan 1 lb. of sugar, with ^ pint of v/ater, and set it over a very clear fire. Take off the scum as it rises ; boil it till it looks clear and fine, and take out a little in a silver spoon. When it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your spoon, it is boiled enough for any kind of sweetmeat. Then boil your syrup, and, when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. It is a great mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into too thick a syrup, especially at the first, as it withers the fruit, and both the beauty and the flavour are thereby destroyed. CANDIED ALMONDS. Blanch lib. of the best almonds, and Cut them very thin length- ways ; put them into 1 lb. of clarified sugar to crisp them ; stir them over the fire till boiled to souffle; then take them off, and keep stirring till the sugar is dry, like sand; then sift it, so that the almonds may be left, divide them into four parts to colour them differently, the first part red, the second yellow, the third green, and the fourth left white as they come from the sugar. To colour the first soak a small quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and lay your almonds in it; do the same with a little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and spinach-juice for the green. Place the coloured almonds on a sieve in a stove. When dry mix all together, adding the white ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould will require to souffle, put it in, and when the almonds are quite dry garnish the surface of the sugar with them. Do not, how- ever, lay them too thick, and just press them down with a fork. Put the mould into a moderate oven for five hours, then drain it well, and in another two hours it may be taken from the mould. CANDIED BARBERPJES. Take the bar- berries out of the preserve, and wash off the syrup in warm water; then sift over them some fine sugar, and set them in an oven, often moving them, and strewing sugar upon them until they are dry. CANDIED CHERRIES. The cherries must be gathered before they are ripe. Prick and stone them. Boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. CANDIED CINNAMON. Soak cinnamon in water for twenty-four houi's, and then cut it in pieces about an inch long ; prepare some sugar to grand lisse, and give the cinnamon a boil in it. Drain and dry it in a stove to the proper consistence; then put it in the moulds with sugar boiled to souffle, and when half cold dry it. Before the candy is removed from the moulds they should be laid on one side for some time. Keep them in paper in a drv place. CANDIED CITRON. Pare " the citrons very tliin and narrow, and throw them into water (these are called faggots); then cut the citron into slices of any thickness you think proper; take out the inner part with great care, 60 as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the faggots into boiling water; when tender drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clari- fied sugar to souffle ; then put in the rings and boil them together. Take it from the fire, and when a little cool rub the sugar against the side of the preserving-paia with the back of a spoon. As soon as it becomes white take out the rings with a fork very carefully, one by one, and lay them on a wire grate to drain. Boil, and proceed with the faggots in a similar way. When taken out cut them into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, and lay them also on a wire to drain. CANDIED FLOWERS. Take the best double-refined sugar, break it into lumps, and dip it piece by piece into water; put them intoCAN CAN [ 224 ] a vessel of silver, and inelt thera over the fire. When it just boils strain it, set it on the fire again, and let it boil till it draws in hairs, which you may perceive by holding up your spoon ; then put in the flowers, and set them in cups or glasses. When it is of a hard candy break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you please. Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, and it will look like sugar-candy. CANDIED FRUITS. When finished in the syrup put a layer into a new sauce, and dip it suddenly into hot water to take off the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite ■white. Set it on the shallow end of the sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. CANDIED GINGER. Put 1 oz. of ginger, grated fine, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar into a pre- serving-pan with as much water as will dissolve it. Stir them well together over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil; then add another 1 lb., stirring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set them in a warm place; to dry, and they will be hard and brittle, and look white. CANDIED GREENGAGES. Whenfinished in the syrup put a layer into a clean sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water to take off the syrup that hangs about it; then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar, sift this all over every part of the fruit till it is perfectly white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully CANDIED LEMON-PEEL. Take some lemon-peels and clean them well from the pulp, and let them lay two days in salt and water; then scald and drain them dry; boil them in a thin syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer them till the sugar candies about the pan and peels. Then lay them sepa- rately on a hair sieve to drain; strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to dry in a slow oven. CANDIED NUTMEGS. Take IJIb. of double-refined sugar, ^ quartern of damask rose water, and a very little gum arabic; boil these to a candy height. Let your nutmegs be first soaked in water; then put them into an earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep them very closely covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks, and they will be of a rock candy. CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. Take some orange-peel and let it soak in several waters till it has lost its bitterness ; then boil it in a solu- tion of double-refined sugar in water till it be- comes tender and transparent. CANDIED PLUMS. Choose your plums of a nice shape and good size ; cut them in halves, lay them on a large shallow dish, strew powder sugar over, and put them into a moderate oven tightly closed; in half an hour's time take them out, and place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. CANDIED ROSES. Crisp two handsful of rose leaves in some clarified sugar, which boil to fort souffle; then take the pan from the fire, pour the contents on a sieve, let the syrup run from the leaves, rubbing the latter in your hands, and then dry them in a stove. Boil your sugar again to soufHe, adding a little carmine to colour it. Have a proper mould ready, pour the sugar into it, and put the flowers on it; push them down lightly with a fork, that they may be completely covered with the sugar; place the mould in a moderate oven or stove for five days, then drain off the syrup ; lay a sheet of paper on the table, and turn the candy quickly out of the mould. CANDIED VIOLETS. Pick off the stalks from some double violets ; boil some sugar to soufHe, put in the violets, and keep them in till the sugar again boils to souffle; then rub the sugar against the sides of the pan until it is white; stir all together till the sugar leaves the violets, and then sift and dry them. See Candled Fruits and CLARrFViNO. CANDLES. These souixes of light are made of tallow, composite (which is some fatty sub- stance with much arsenic added), spermaceti, and wax. The wicks are formed of threads of cotton, sometimes straight, sometimes plaited, and at other times interwoven with veiy fine wire. Candles are made by merely dipping the wicks into melted fat, or by pouring this into moulds around the wick. For the following particulars we are chiefly indebted to the "Magazine of Domestic Economy:"—Mould candles are made of fine mutton suet, mixed with a certain proportion of ox tallow, to give the candles gloss, compactness, and consistence. The dips are made of a coai'ser material, con- sisting of the grosser and more rancid fats, that form together the substance or commercial com- modity, composed of all kinds of fat and animal grease and drippings, and denominated' tallow. To prepare the tallow for candle-making it is first sorted, by separating the finer parts from the coarse. Each is then cut into small pieces, and melted separately. The sooner the melting takes place after the fat is separated from the slaughtered animal the better, because the mus- cular fibre and other animal matters mixed w.th it tend to make it putrefy. The best mode ofCAN [ 225 3 CAN melting tlie fat is by steam let in round the pan containing it. This is usually done by the great candle manufacturers, but inferior tradesmen employ the naked fire. In this case the flame should not come in contact with the bottom of the pan, but only play round the upper part of its sides. Those who apply the fire to the bottom of the vessel injure the tallow and produce only inferior candles. After the fat has melted, by a continued application of the heat, the membranous and fibrous matters gradually col- lect on the surface, and form what, in domestic establishments, is called cracklings, being the residuary substance obtained by melting fat, suet, or hog's lard, in a saucepan. These crack- lings from tallow, after being subject to powerful pressure to extract all the fat, form the hard cakes known by the name of greaves, used as food for dogs. When all the fat is expressed from the greaves the melted tallow is strained through a sieve into another vessel, where it is cleansed with boiling water, with which it is beaten and well stirred up. The mixture being then allowed to settle, the foul water subsides, and the purified tallow floats at the top. The tallow is now carefully baled out into small tubs, where it concretes and is ready for use. The wicks employed for candles, as well as lamps, are made of cotton, a substance which appears the best calculated for the purpose. It is rather singular that, notwithstanding the per- fection attained in our cotton manufactories, the best wicks should be those imported from Turkey^ These are cotton rovings formed into wicks by several skeins, according to the size desired, being wound off together into clews, and cut to the lengths required for the different kinds of candles. The mould candles are thus manufactured:— The moulds are hollow cylinders of pewter sur- mounted by a sort of hollow conical inverted cup, with a small hole at the apex. This cup is soldered to the tube. A dozen of these moulds, more or less, are fixed to a wooden frame with the apex of the cup downward, the other end terminating in a sort of trough common to all the moulds. Sometimes, however, in small manufactories, the ends of the moulds are left independent of each other, and without a trough. The wicks are first placed in the moulds ; this is effected in the following manner :—The wick being first fastened to the lower part of the frame, a hooked wire is introduced into the mould at the bottom, made to go through it, and to pass out at the little hole in the apex of the cup. The looped end of the wick is then placed upon the hook of the wire, which is drawn back, carrying the Vv'ick with it. On this ap- pearing at the end of the mould the hook is removed, and a short wire passed through tlie loop, and across the diameter of the mould, to keep the wick stretched, and to make it retain its place in the exact centre of the internal cir- cumference of the mould. This being done the melted tallow, at a proper temperature, is run into a cistern furnished with a stopcock. This being turned the tallow is let from the cistern either into the trough common to the moulds attached to the frame, or, if there be no trough, into each mould separately. When these are about half full the stopcock is turned, and the supply of tallow ceases for a time, until the workman has been enabled to pull the wick quite tight in each mould, as well to secure it from curling, as to stretch it again if already curled. This being done the stopcock is opened once more, and tallow admitted into the moulds until they are quite filled. The frame is now laid aside to cool. The loose tallow on the frame and edges of the mould is then scraped off with a small wooden instrument, a tool like a bodkin being passed through the loop, the other end of the wick is cut, and the candle is drawn out of the mould. The dip candles are formed more easily. The wicks are first dipped into melted tallow, rubbed with the hands, and then allowed to harden. The wicks thus stiffened are suspended verti- cally by means of their loops in rows upon wooden frames attached to a cross-beam or lever which can be raised or depressed, by depressing or raising the other extremity, the axis resting ill a mortise cut in an upright and fastened with a peg that enables it to command a semicircular motion. The action of the apparatus resembles that of a see-saw used by children. By depress- ing the frame the stiffened wicks are dipped into a cistern of melted tallow, an operation repeated each time the tallow hardens until the dipped candles have acquired a certain weight, which is indicated by the machine itself. When sufficiently dry they are removed by running the loops off a stick that fastens them to the frame ; they are then ready for inspection and sale. Mould candles recently made are neither so good in quality, nor so white, as those which have been kept some time—a circumstance which accounts for the superiority of candles made by manufacturers with extensive premises and large capital. Keeping bleaches the tallow; but artificial bleaching is practised by those chandlers who require a prompt sale, and is effected by exposing the candles to the night air and dew. Candles, however, to be very good should not be used till they are from thrco to six months old—a circumstance which shows the advantage of laying in a stock for domestic consumption. The stearine or composite candles, in which we include cocoa-nut and others, like those of was, le- <iCAN [ 226 ] CAN quire no snuffing. The wicks are made of cotton yam, twisted rather hard and coiled round straight iron rods or wires. They are then inserted in the candle moulds, and the metal rod left in them. When the candle is made and quite cold, the rod is drawn from it, leaving through the wick a hollow, cylindrical aperture that admits the air into the interior, which causes the wick itself to he burnt to ashes—a consummation never ob- tained in common candles, because the white flame of Cie wick takes the lion's share of the atmospheric air in contact with the flame, the red flame inside seizing upon what remains, so that, in ordinary candles, the wick cannot ob- tain sufficient air to make it consume. No other cause than this defect, arising from the absence of air to support the combustion of the wick, need be assigned for the necessity of snuf- fers, not one of the varieties of which, even with the newest improvements, is free from the in- conveniences of soil and disagreeable odour. To the uninitiated it probably will be accept- able to know that, after many years of pi'actical attention to this, among other household mat- ters, our decision is in favour of short sixes (moulds) for domestic purposes; the social circle, whether workers, writers, or readers, being better accommodated with light from candles of that size and height than from those called long sixes, which look poor and thin in proportion to their length, or than from long fours, which should be reserved, unless twos be preferred, for parties. Tall candles not only look well, but throw a cheerful light towards the ceiling of a room, and shed a radiance on all beneath them. When a branch is used short fours will be found a good size. We do not like the composition candles, either as respects their appearance, which is dark, heavy, dirty, and opaque, nor as regards the manner of their burning, which is exceed- ingly disagreeable. They flicker, the snuff burns long, curls down, and falls over; and the ma- terial itself, the candle, gutters during a whole" evening incessantly, forming long, unsightly pendants that, hardening as they descend, pro- ject away from the base of the candle and drop in all directions, to the injury of silk dresses, handsome carpets, keys of the piano, &c. Our own taste inclines to the delicate semi-transpa- rent spermaceti. Kitchen candles should be tens (dips), they will be found the most economical size; for although twelves include two more to the pound, they burn out very quickly, and cause more waste ; for ser- vants will not be scrupulous to burn candles to y the ends if they are to be troubled with those / ends frequently. Eights are a very respectable size, too large and good to be swaled about, in gusty nights, through halls and passages, and up and down flights of stairs. Some families will not allow candles iu their kitchens; but lamps are expensive, though safe; and unless several servants be kept, the family be small, and the domestics steady, they are not to be advised. Lamps are pleasant for a library; we have known several families who have resumed the use of candles, after having burned lamps in the social sitting-room. They are more expensive, and much more troublesome than the old- fashioned mould candle. Our calculation is that a lamp costs as much as three caudles. We have tried all kinds of night-lights, and give the preference decidedly to the useful rush; of these there are two sizes which we always make use of—tens for the winter months, and twelves for the summer. No night-light is so certain or so safe, if it be placed in a deep tin to contain water, within the usual painted guard. In the event of a person being obliged to bm-n a candle through the night, instead of a rush, it will be merely necessary to place the candle so crooked in the water tin candlestick that the end of the black snuff project beyond the flame; the oxygen of the air will then act upon it, and cause it to be consumed; thus waste will be prevented, and the candle burn away without guttering. It is scarcely necessary to add that a rushlight may be stopped from burning, at any required time, by passing two pins across so as to pierce the wick ; in the height of summer a twelve will thus suffice for two nights. Child's night - lights are safe and good, but are more expensive than rushlights. If you are without a rushlight, and would burn a candle all night, unless you use some pre- caution, it is ten to one an ordinary candle will gutter away in an hour or two, sometimes to the endangering the safety of the house. This may be avoided by placing as much common salt, finely powdered, as will reach from the tallow to the bottom of the black part of the wick of a partly bui-nt candle, when, if the same be lit, it will burn very slowly, yet yielding sufficient light for a bed-chamber; the salt will gradually sink as the tallow is consumed, the melted tallow being drawn through the salt and consumed in the wick. Candles are a very expensive article in housekeeping, but much money may be saved by their careful management. Carry them steadily that they may not gutter dowm; and see that no pieces are left in the candlesticks to be melted away when they are cleaned. Carefully save all such pieces, and never let a whole candle be cut for the kitchen while any of these remain, nor suffer it to burn in the socket. If the servant have occasion to leave the kitchen for any length of time, she should put o«t the candle while she is gone, and not let two or three be bm-ning at once when one is sufficient.[ 227 3 CAN CAN Candles, especially of tallow, improve by being kept, but tbey must be kept in a cold, dry place. A warm store-closet would render it cheaper to buy the candles as needed. The wick of a candle merely acts a mechanical part, supplying the melted tallow, or other fatty material, to the flame; but it is essential that the wick should be of a correct size. If too small it will not carry up the melted portion fast enough, and, consequently, the candle gutters. If it be too large the combustion, or burning, of the oil in the middle is not complete, owing to deficiency of air there, and, as a consequence, the candle smokes and produces smuts. Dr. Fyfe, after numerous careful experiments, gives the following as the relative cost to pro- auce an equal amount of light:— Aigand gas-flame .... I'OO Solar lamp . . . . , . 3-OU Naphtha 200 Solar oil in Argaud lamp . . . 3-98 Whale oil 5-00 Sperm oil 8 00 Tallow candle (two wicks) . . . 12-70 Cocoa-oil candle . . . . . 1310 Tallow candle (one wick) . . . 13'50 Composite 14'50 Palm 18-90 Wax 25 90 Diaphane 27-10 Margarine 28-40 Spermaceti 2920 Composition ...... 29-20 According to this table composition candles are nearly thirty times as costly as gas for pro- ducing an equal intensity of light. The following directions to the " Footman,'* published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman, are not sufficiently attended to:—In putting candles into candlesticks care should be taken to set them, upright. To do this take the bottom of the candle in the left hand, and the wick between the finger and thumb of the right; in this manner put it into the noz- zle of the candlestick, but not push it in too tight. While you thus hold it by the wick, turn the candlestick round every way, and you will see whether it stands upright; if it does force it down tightly to the bottom. If the candle be too large at the bottom, take it out and scrape it downwards with a knife whilst you hold it upright by the wick. The candle should not be handled, as it will take off the gloss and make your hands smell, nor should this business be done near a fire. If caiadles be laid down upon any place before they are put into the candlesticks, it should be a place free from dust and dirt, that they may not be soiled; and when the candles are carried up do not forget the snuffers and tray, unless those candles are used that require no snuffing. If a candle be not put in straight and it be tight in the socket, never attempt to bend it or pull it out from above, unless you mean to break it; but take out the socket, and push it out with your finger from below, holding it with your other hand. When candles require snuffing take them of? the table, leaning them to the snuffers, and cut the wicks up to a point, that they may yield a clear light, but never so close as to make them gutter. Take care to close the snuffers, so as not to drop the wick or cause a smell. CANDLESTICKS. In cleaning these a large old tea-tray is very useful to prevent soiling the table with grease, but if there be not such a thing, a piece of stout brown paper or paste- board must serve. Have a piece of soft fire- wood cut to an edge, like a knife; use it for iron, tin, or japanned candlesticks, to scrape off the rough grease. The remainder of the grease melt off by the application of boiling water; then wipe them clean with cloths kept for the purpose, and the tin candlesticks polish with a leather and some dry whiting. In cleaning silver, plated, or German-silver candlesticks, first re- move the short pieces of candle that may have been left to burn in the chamber candlesticks, or in the kitchen upon save-alls ; and then, should there be any grease in the sockets, re- move it with the piece of wood used for the common candlesticks. Having washed them with hot water and soap, and wiped them clean and dry, polish them with whiting and wash-leather, the same as other silver or plated articles. CANDYING. See Candied. CANNELONS. Make a stiff paste with a little melted butter, 1 or 2 spoonsful of water, some rasped lemon-peel, 1 egg, ^ lb. of flour, and half that quantity of sugar; roll it very thin. Make a little cane of card paper, butter it well on the outside, and wrap it in some of the paste. Bake it a few minutes; take out the card, and fill the paste with currant jelly, or any other jelly or sweetmeat you please. CANNELONS (with Filberts). Mince i lb. of filberts, and mix them with 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, and a very little white of egg; prepare the cannelons as above ; just before you put them into the oven roll them in filberts, so as to cover them with them; take care to return each to its place in a baking-plate. Put them in a moderate oven, and colour them a good yellow. Finish as above. CANNELONS, FRIED. Roll out some puff- paste very thin and long, moisten the surface lightly, and place along it, at equal distances, email quantities of apricot, peach, or any other marmalade. Spread it about two inches and a half long, but not more than half an inch ii. width ; turn the remainder of the paste over it, press down the edges, and then cut the canne-CAO CAN [ 228 ] Ions, leaving a quarter of an incli each way. Press the paste together all round, to keep in the preserves, and when all are cut put them in a pan and fry them. When done drain them in a napkin, and sprinkle them with powdered sugar. CANNELONS, ICED. Eoll out some puff- paste thin, about eighteen inches square, and cut it into twenty-four strips. Have by you as many pieces of beech-wood turned, about six inches long, and three quarters of an inch in diameter, a degree less at one end than at the other. Butter these pieces of wood, and, having moistened your strips of paste, wind one round each of them, beginning at the smallest end, so as to form a sort of screw, four inches in length. Lay them on baking-plates pretty distant from each other; dorez, and put them into a hot oven. When of a nice colour sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. As soon as you remove them from the oven take out the pieces of wood, and lay them on a cool slab. When wanted for table fill them with apple or any other jelly you may choose. CANNELONS, MERINGUES. Whip the whites of 2 eggs, and, having mixed tbem with 2 spoonsful of powdered sugar, mark the canne- lons. When baked crush ^ lb. of fine sugar, and roll the cannelons in it; replace them a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. The marking of these cannelons may be varied, according to the taste, with pistachios, dried currants, &c., the former cut in pieces, the latter well washed, diied, and mixed with an equal quantity of sugar. CANTHARIDES, or Spanish Fly. See Blister. CANVASS of fine texture is the coarsest fabric made from flax, coarse canvass being made from hemp. There are now made, however, canvasses of silk, worsted, and even of gilt wire, for working upon with floss silk, or very fine lambs' wool. It is sometimes desirable to make canvass waterproof, and in such case the canvass should have spread over it, by means of a hot flat iron, a mixture of 2 parts rosin and 1 part lard. When cold it may be painted any colour desired. CAOUTCHOUC, called, also, India-ruller, from its usefulness in rubbing out black-lead pencil marks, is the dried sap of Siphonia elastica, Ficiis elastica, and other tropical trees. If ex- posed to the air in thin films it soon dries, losing from one-third to'one-half of its weight, and leaving caoutchouc of the usual appearance. By the natives of South America it is applied in successive coats to the surface of clay models of bottles and of animals, and dried over fires, the smoke of which communicates to it a dark colour. While the caoutchouc is still soft various lines are drawn upon it with a blunt tool, which remain permanently impressed. When the whole has become dry the clay is crushed and shaken out of the bottles. The elasticity of caoutchouc is its most re- markable property; pieces of it may be stretched, after being soaked in warm water, to seven or eight times their original length, without being torn, or having their contractile power destroyed; and bottles of it may, by means of a condensing syringe, be expanded to many times their original dimensions. If a bottle be soaked in weU-washed sulphuric ether until quite soft, it may be inflated by means of the mouth till it has become so thin as to be transparent, and sufficiently light to ascend when filled with hydrogen gas. If dried in this state it will not again contract, and thin sheets of caoutchouc may be thus formed. A bottle has been thus expanded till it was six feet in diameter. In ether caoutchouc readily dissolves, and on the evaporation of the ether it remains un- changed in any of its properties. For this purpose the ether is washed by agitating it in a bottle with twice its bulk of water. The bottle is allowed to remain inverted till the ether has separated from the water and risen to the sur ■ face, and the water is then allowed to run out. leaving the ether in the vessel. This process is to be repeated three or four times, when about one-third of the original quantity of the ether will remain. The caoutchouc is to be boiled in water for a couple of hours, and then placed with the ether in a well-closed vessel, and in the course of a few days it will dissolve com- pletely. The volatile oils dissolve caoutchouc, but on evaporating generally leave it in a glutinous state. If, however, alcohol be added to its solu- tion in oil of cajeput, the caoutchouc separates in a semi-fluid state, and by exposure to the air regains its firmness and elasticity. Naphtha or petroleum, rectified into a colourless liquid, dissolves it, and upon evaporation leaves it unchanged. In South America the natives have long made waterproof boots of caoutchouc, and by imbuing cloth with the milky juice of the hhve have rendered it impervious to moisture. In Europe caoutchouc is also used extensively in the manufacture of waterproof cloth. For this purpose it is usually dissolved in naphtha, the oil distilled from gas-tar, and spread upon the surface of a piece of the cloth upon which a similar piece is then extended, and the whole passed between a pair of rollers. Thus the fabric consists of two pieces of cloth with a layer of caoutchouc interposed, and unitiug them to- gether. The cloth thus prepared is so imper- vious to moisture and to air, that floating or h^'drostatic beds for invalids are formed of it,CAO CAP [ 229 ] and even beds and cushions are rendered elastic by inflating them. Caoutchouc is used in the manufacture of braces, of some surgical instruments, and of many other articles for which its elasticity renders it adapted. It is also cut by machinery with great rapidity into very fine thread, to which a still greater degree of tenuity is given by stretching it, as it is wound tightly upon bobbins, where it is allowed to remain till its contractile power is lost. This thread is woven into a variety of ornaments and elastic fabrics. Pieces of caoutchouc may be joined together by moistening their edges with a solution of it either in ether or naphtha; or if the pieces are boiled in water until quite soft they may be made to unite by merely pressing tightly to- gether. The well-known macintoshes are made by uniting two webs of cloth together by means of caoutchouc dissolved in naphtha, and pressing them between rollers. Gloves are made at Leicester and Notting- ham' with India-rubber knitted into the wrist; and stockings with the same material at the top, to serve in lieu of garters. In India this ma- terial has been in some cases used as a substi- tute for leather in solaiers' belts and other parts of their accoutrements. About sixteen years ago a method was introduced of employing India- rubber, combined with other materials, as a substitute for corks for bottles. In the first place, fibres of wool are felted or worked into a cylindrical mass. This cylinder is cut up into pieces the proper length for corks, and the corks so made are coated with a thin sheeting or cover of India-rubber. The corks so made are said to close the bottle air-tight, and yet to be removed easily. Another mode of applying this substance in respect to its elastic property is for pavements for stables, lobbies, and halls. The idea of sub- stituting this kind of pavement for that made of stone seems to have arisen from the desira- bility of providing a flexible and yielding foot- ing for horses in the stable. Some of the stables at Woolwich Arsenal are paved in this way; so likewise is the Admiralty Courtyard, and the carriage-entrance court at Windsor Castle. For all such purposes as these the India-rubber is combined with other materials. A project has been started for building boats of cork and India-rubber in such a way that they shall be too light to sink and too elastic to fall to pieces in case of being thrown against a rocky shore. The elasticity of this substance has also caused it to be proposed as a material for the lining of vessels to prevent accidents from gun- shot splinters, and for hammock-nettings and bulwarks to protect the crew from shot. The imperviousness to water — the other principal quality possessed by India-rubber—is rendered available by using a solution of the gum as a varnish or coating to the substance to be protected. When cloth is saturated with a solution of caoutchouc it becomes not only waterproof but aii'-proof, and is then applied for such purposes as air-beds and cushions. Its water-resisting power is that which makes it available for clothing, and for safety-boats, and other like contrivances. For all such purposes as these the gum requires to be brought to a melted state before using; and many recent inventions have had for their object the best mode of effecting this solution. Besides the life boats other forms of vessels have been de- vised, having India-rubber among their com- ponent materials. In 1839 pontoons were made of India-rubber cloth, and floated on the Serpentine, two of them bearing a platform on which forty men stood. In the next following year a boat made of India-rubber cloth was floated on the Neva at St. Petersburg, and another on the Hudson in America, both bearing several persons. The canvass for soldiers' tents in France is sometimes saturated with the solu- tion of this gum, and rick-cloths are occasion- ally so treated in this country. CAPER SAUCE (for Fish). Take some melted butter, into which throw a small bit of glaze ; and when the sauce is in a state of readi- ness throw into it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. CAPER SAUCE (French). Take some capers, cut them small. Put some essence of ham into a small saucepan, with a little pepper; let it boil, then put in the capers; let them boil up two or three times, and pour it into a boat. CAPER SAUCE (for Meat). Take some capers, chop half of them very fine, and put the rest in whole. Then chop some parsley with a little grated bread, and put to it some salt. Put them into butter, melted very smooth, let them boil up, and then pour them into a sauceboat. CAPER SAUCE : To IwrrAXE. Boil some parsley very slowly, to let it become of a bad colour, then cut it up, but do not chop it fine. Put it into melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and then serve. CAPERS. Capers are the unopened flower- buds of a low shrub, called Cappai-is spinosa, which grows from the crevices of rocks and walls, and among rubbish in the southern of France, in Italy, and the Levant. In the south of France the caper bush is very common. It grows wild upon the walls of Rome, Sienna, and Florence, and when trained against a wall flourishes even in the neighbourhood of Paris. It is cultivated on a large scale between Mg"*-CAP [ 380 ] CAP seilles and Toulon, and in many parts of Italy. In the early part of the summer it begins to flower, and the flowers continue successively to appear until the commencement of winter. The huds are picked every morning before the petals are expanded, and as they are gathered they are put into vinegar and salt. When a sufBcient quantity is collected they are distributed, ac- cording to size, into different vessels, again put into vinegar, and then packed up for sale and exportation. CAPILLAIRE (1). Capillaire is made from the fern called maiden-hair [Aspleniutn adian- tum nigrum), which has a light and agreeable fragrance, but so extremely volatile that the greatest part of it is dissipated during the pre- paration of the syrup. To preserve the odour of the capillaire, when your syrup is sufficiently done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up ; then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite cold; then pass it through a bolting-cloth to separate it from the leaves of the capillaire:—Take 1 oz. of the capillaire from Canada, put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it 4 pints of boiling water, leave it to infuse for twelve liours over some warm ashes ; strain it, and let it run into a vessel. It will give you a strong tincture; add 4 lbs. of sugar. Put the whole into a preserving- pan, put it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg; continue the boiling. When your syrup is perU put some fresh capillaire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your syrup, whilst boiling, upon it. Cover your pan carefully, and let it cool. When your syrup is cold you may flavour it as you please. Put it into bottles, cork them, and tie down with bladder. CAPILLAIRE (2). Take some good capil- laire, chop it up, not very small, put it upon a sieve. Pour upon it some boiling water, and then let it infuse for ten hours in a vessel well covered. Strain this infusion, and put into it. some sugar boiled to cracking consistence. For 3^ pints of syrup you must use 2 good ozs. of capillaire, 4 pints of water, and 4 lbs. of sugar. Powder sugar is the best, as it prevents syrups from candving. CAPILOTADE. Cut up a cold roast fowl; then take a good slice of butter, and some shred mushrooms and potherbs. Fry these till they are about to turn-brown with a tea-spoonful of flour; then add to them a large glass of white wine. Let the whole simmer together for a quarter of an hour. Next put in the pieces of fowl, and heat them up for a few minutes. Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread; and just before you serve pour into the sauce- pan 2 table-spoonsful of oil, taking care that it does not boil, and stir it up well with the sauce. CAPON. A capon, if alive, will have a thick fat rump, a fat thick belly, and a fat vein under its wing on the side of its breast; and if young it will have a short spur and a smooth leg ; but if old a sharp spur ; but see the spur be not cut, pared, or scraped small, and if you have any doubt press it upon the breast with your thumb, and if the thumb go in easy it is young, but if old it is hard. If alive see it is not bruised upon the breast with car- riage, or have any sore or wen about it. If it be pale about the head and have a short comb, then it is young, but if red about the head it is not a clean capon. CAPON (with Crayfish). Stew a capon a la braise; then make a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and the tails of crayfish; toss it up with a little melted lard, moisten with a good deal of veal gravy, and thicken it with a cuUis of crayfish. Then take up your capon, let it drain, then put it in a dish, and pour your ragout over it and serve. You must be careful not to let your ragout boil after you have put in your cray- fish cullis ; for, if it should, it will turn ; there- fore, only keep it over hot embers. CAPON (the Italian way). Boil some rice in mutton broth till it is very thick, adding salt and sugar; then boil some Bologna sausages very tender, mince them very small, add some grated cheese, sugar, and cinnamon, and mix the whole together. Then, your capon being boiled or roasted, cut it up, lay it on a dish with some rice, strew over it some of the sausage, cinnamon, grated cheese, and sugar, and lay on the yolks of raw eggs. Thus make two or three layers, lay some eggs, butter, or marrow on the top of all, and set it over a chafing-dish of coals, or in a warm oven. CAPON (with Oysters). Dress a capon d la braise, then simmer some mushrooms and truffles in some veal gravy over a stove, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham. Give some oysters two or three turns in their own liquor over the fii'e, to blanch them, but do not let them boil. Take them off, clean them well, and put them into the ragout you have prepared. Set it over the fire to heat, but do not let it boil. Take up the capon, let it drain, lay it in a dish, pour the ragout over, and serve it hot. CAPON (with Rice). Cover a capon with a thin layer of bacon, and put it in a saucepan with lib. of rice, half under and half over the fowl; fill up the saucepan with stock, and salt to your taste. Put the whole over a slow fire with some charcoal on the lid of the saucepan. When the rice has absorbed all the stock serve it under the fowl. CAPON: To Fricassee. Take a capon, either roasted or boiled, cut it up, and take the pinions from the wings and the brawn from the joints. Being thus prepared put it into a pan;CAP [ 231 ] CAP take the yolks of 5 eggs, some minted thyme, and sliced nutmeg; mix them well together, and put them into the pan with clarified butter, half hot, and fry them till they are brown, then turn them out. Put the yolks of 3 eggs, an onion cut in quarters, anchovies, and a little grated nutmeg, into some white wine, strong broth or gravy; then pour out what liquor is in your pan, and put to it a ladleful of butter. Put this layer into your pan, and keep it continually shaking over a slow fire till it thickens (if it is too thick it may be thinned with white wine) ; then put your fowl into a dish, and pour in your sauce. Garnish it with slices of lemon and hard yolks of eggs chopped small, and serve. CAPON, BOILED. Draw your capon, wash it, and fill the inside with oysters. Cut a neck of mutton in pieces, boil it, and skim it well; put in the capon, and when it boils skim it again. Take care that you have not more broth than will just cover the meat. Then put in about a pint of white wine, some whole pepper, cloves, and mace. About a quarter of an hour before it is finished put in 3 anchovies carefully washed and boned. You may also, if you think proper, add parsley and sweet herbs. When it is sufficiently done put some sippets, then place the capon in the middle, and squeeze either an orange or lemon over before you serve. CAPON, LARDED (with Lemon). Let your capon be first scalded; then take a little dust of oatmeal, to make it look white, 1 pint of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 or 3 dates cut longways, some currants parboiled, a little whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a nutmeg. Thicken it with almonds; season with sugar, verjuice, and a little butter; then lard the capon with thick lardings of bacon and preserved lemon, and boil it. When done place it in a deep dish, and pour the stock over it. Gar- nish with preserved barberries and sippets. CAPON PASTY. Roast the capon"; let it be cold. Take the flesh from the bones, and slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions whole. Add to the flesh of the capon 4 sweetbreads and |- pint of oysters. Season them with salt, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, and thyme minced. Lay a sheet of paper or paste in your pasty-pan; lay the thighs and pinions at the bottom, and strew them over with sliced onions; then put in the flesh of the ca- pon, the sweetbreads, and the oysters cut in halves. Over these strew a handful of chestnuts boiled and blanched; then put butter over them. Close up your pan, and bake it. When done add gravy, good stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and grated nutmeg. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Tiurkey may be done in the same manner. CAPON PUDDING. Roast a capon, take out the meat of the breast, mince it small; then cut some pig's feet very thin, put them into a saucepan with a couple of roasted onions, then pound them in a mortar, with sweet herbs and shred parsley, seasoned with spices and mixed with the whites of 2 or 3 eggs beaten. Beat up the yolks of 12 eggs in 1 quart of milk, boil it to a cream; then mix all together and just warm it over the fire ; put these into skins, and do the same as you do with marrow puddings. Blanch them in water and milk, with slices of onion. When you use them spread a sheet of paper over the lard, lay it on a gridiron, broil your puddings on it over a gentle fire, and serve them. CAPON, ROASTED (with Sweet Heebs). When you have drawn the capon put your finger between the skin and the flesh to loosen it. Grate some bacon (the quantity of 2 eggs), and add to it 1 truffle, 1 mushroom, a little parsley and garden basil. Season these well with salt, pepper, and spices. Mix these well together, and put them between the skin and flesh of the capon, and sew up the end; then lard the capon with slices of veal and ham, putting a little sweet herbs, salt, and pepper between ; then wrap it up in sheets of paper, and put it on the spit to roast. By the time it is roasted have ready a ragout of veal, sweetbreads, fat livers, mushrooms, trufHes, morels, artichoke bottoms, asparagus tops in their season, which should be tossed up with a little melted lard and strengthened with a good gravy. Take off the fat and thicken it with cuUis of veal and ham. Place your capon on a dish, pour your ragout all over, and serve. CAPON SOUP. Truss a capon for boiling, leave on the pinions, and truss them nicely, put it in a pot with a bunch of sweet herbs, well seasoned, and 2 onions, 1 stuck with 2 cloves. Moisten with good stock; skim it well. When there is just time to cook the rice wash it, take up the fowl, and drop it into the boil- ing soup, with i lb. of prunes or raisins. Add a little beef juice to colour it. Unskewer and dish the capon; cover it with liver, egg, celery, fricassee, mushroom, oysters, or cream and lemon sauce, and serve it' as a remove to the soup. CAPONS, ROASTED. To eat tender they should be killed at least two days before they are dressed. You may judge of their ripeness for the spit by the ease of pulling out the feathers. The same general directions are to be followed as in roasting a turkey, only a full- grown fowl will take no more than an hour and a quarter, one of a middling size an hour, and a chicken from thirty to forty minutes. Pork sausages fried are a good accompaniment, or the fowl may be stufted with the same ingre- dients as a turkey, in which case the neck andCAR C 232 J CAP rump must be tied close. Some persons add the liver to the forcemeat, and others rub it up with the flour and butter to thicken and enrich the gravy. If the liver is not so appropriated, put it under one pinion, and the gizzard, after scoring it and dipping it in melted butter, with Cayenne and salt, under the other. Cover these appendages with paper buttered. Let your fowl be well browned. CAPSICUM is the name of several species of South American plants, known by their hollow pods, of a shining red or yellow colour, which contain many small, flat, and kidney- shaped seeds. The principal species are heart or bell pepper [Capsicum grossum), Guinea pep- per {Capsicum annuum), and bird pepper [Capsi- cum baccatum). In hot climates, as the East and West Indies, and some parts of South America, the fruit of these plants is much used for culinary purposes. It is eaten in large quantities both with animal and vegetable food, and is mixed, in greater or less proportion, with almost all kinds of sauces. The Cayenne pepper used in cookery is made from the different species of capsicum. This fruit, when ripe, is gathered, dried in the sun, and tli«n pounded; and the powder is mixed with only a, certain portion of salt, and kept for use in closely-stopped bottles. It is very generally used as a poignant ingre- dient in soups and highly-seasoned dishes. Its taste is extremely acrid, and it leaves a durable sensation of heat on the palate, which is best removed by oil or butter. When taken in small quantities Cayenne is a grateful stimulant, and, in medicine, it is both used externally and in- ternally, to promote the action of the bodily organs when languid and torpid, and it is said to have been found ef&cacious in many gouty and paralytic cases. The Guinea pepper, or annual capsicum, is considered most hardy, and in the South of Europe its fruit is eaten green by the jieasants at their breakfasts, and is preferred by them to onions or garlic. The fruit of all the species may be used in domestic economy, either as a pickle, or, when dried before a fire, and ground to powder in a common pepper-mill, as Cayenne pepper. CAPSICUMS : To Pickle. Gather the pods with the stalks on before they turn red, cut a slit down the side with a penknife, and take out all the seeds, but as little of the meat as possible; lay them in a strong brine for three days, changing it every day; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, and lay another over them till they are quite dry. Boil vinegar enough to cover them, put in some mace and nutmeg beaten small; put the pods into a glass or jar, and when the liquor is cold pour it over. Tie a Madder and leather over them. CAPSULES are small spherical or pear- shaped bags of gelatine dried, filled with the medicine intended to be taken, and then closed up. They can thus be swallowed whole, and the nauseous flavour of the medicine is not per- ceived. Balsam of copaiba is thus taken, and each capsule contains about twelve grains of it. CARAGEEN MOSS. The sea-weed, called by botanists Chondrus crispus, but commonly known by the name of Carageen moss, has long been esteemed by the peasants on the western coast of Ireland as a dietetic remedy for various diseases, more especially for consumption, dy- sentery, rickets, scrofula, and affections of the kidneys and bladder. Dissolved by being boiled in water it forms a thick mucilage more pure and agreeable than that produced from any other vegetable, and the jelly made from it is found to agree better with the stomach than any of those prepared from animal substances. A decoction of the moss made by boiling ^ oz. in 1^ pint of water or milk until reduced to a pint is recom- mended as food for children affected with scrofu- lous and rickety diseases, such as are delicate or weakly, and for infants brought up by hand, or after weaning. As an article of diet for invalids generally it is superior to isinglass, sago, and tapioca, being highly nutritious; bland, and easy of digestion. Directions for using the moss medicinally. Steep Joz. of moss in cold water for a few minutes, then withdraw it, shaking the water out of each sprig, and boil it in a quart of new or unskimmed milk until it attains the con- sistence of warm jelly. Strain, and sweeten it to the taste with white sugar; or should milk disagree with the stomach the same proportion of water may be used instead. The decoction made with milk is recommended for breakfast to consumptive patients, and that with water will be found a most agreeable kind of nourish- ment taken at intervals during the day, the flavour being varied with lemon-juice and peel, Seville orange-juice, cinnamon, bitter almonds, or any other substance most congenial to the palate. The decoction in water is also taken for the relief of cough at any time in the course of the day when it is troublesome, and it is for this purpose simply sweetened with honey or sugar, or the syrup of poppies, syrup of squills, or the honey of roses, as the case may indicate. In dysentery either the decoction in milk or water may be administered with equal advantage, and, in addition to the sweetening matter, if a tea-spoonful of the tincture of ratanhy be mixed with each cupful of it tone will thereby be given in the intestines, at the same time that nourishment will be conveyed to the system, and irritation prevented. A large tea-cupful of the decoction may be taken three or four times a day.CAR [ 233 ] CAR CARAMEL. Break into a small copper or brass pan 1 lb. of refined sugar ; put in 1 gill of spring water, set it on the fire. When it boils skim it quite clean, and let it boil quickly till it comes to the degree called crack, which may be known by dipping a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, and letting it drop to the bottom of a pan of cold water, and if it remains hard it has attained that degree. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and let it remain one minute longer on the fire, then set the pan into another of cold water. Have ready moulds of any shape; rub them over with sweet oil; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and throw it over the mould in fine threads till it is quite covered. Make a small handle of caramel, or stick on two of the small gum-paste rings by way of ornament, and place it over small pastry of any description. CARAMEL BISCUIT-BASKETS. These are delicate and beautiful. Stick drop biscuits with caramel in any form of basket; they are beautiful in oval and round basins contracted at the top, or with a lying over edge, without any ornament, filled with caramelled fruit. These are elegant for undressed, stylish family dinners. CARAMEL BURNT SUGAR. This is made with a piece of sugar of the size of a nut, browned in the bottom of a saucepan ; then pour upon it a glass of broth, little by little, while you move it about. Caramel may be used with the feather of a quill to colour meats, such as the upper part of fricandeaux, and to impart colour to sauces. Caramel made with water in- stead of broth may be used to colour compotes and other entremets. _ CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the quan- tity of sugar you may require, and boil it to caramel. Have ready some cases of double paper; pour in your sugar to the thickness of half an inch, and trace on its surface the forms you wish it to have. When cold break it ac- cording to those marks. This conserve may be coloured and flavoured according to the fancy. CARAMEL COVER (for Sweetmeats). Dissolve 8 ozs. of double-refined sugar in 3 or 4 spoonsful of water, and 3 or 4 drops of lemon- juice ; then put it into a copper untinned skillet. When it boils to be thick dip the handle of a spoon into it, and put that into a pint basin of water; squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps and is brittle when it is cold it is done enough, but only let it be three parts cold; then pour the water from the sugar, and, having a copper mould oiled well, run the sugar on it in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover. If on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the water, and re- turn it again to the skillet, and bojl it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright, light, gold colour. It makes a most elegant cover. CARAMEL CROQUANT. Take a copper croquant top, and butter it all over; then have some syrup boiling in a stewpan; let it boil till it comes to caramel, take the pan off, dip a three- pronged fork into the syrup or from the spout of the pan, and you will see strings hang on the fork. Move the fork backwards and forwards over the croquant until you quite cover it thick. Have your little dish of sweetmeats under, take this croquant off the mould, and when cold put it over the sweetmeats, and handle it very lightly. CARAMEL FRUIT. Every kind of pre- served or fresh fruits may be caramelled, as well as all kinds of nuts, gum paste, figures, &c. Before the caramel is prepared have the fruit or what is to be caramelled quite ready, which saves time as well as waste. For this purpose if the fruit that is to be done is preserved, the sugar must be washed off with warm water, and the fruit dried in the sun or stove ; it must be free from blemish and whole. Stick to each a small twig, and arrange them. If dipped into white of egg, dried, and then caramelled, they will keep longer. Butter a marble slab slightly, and when the caramel has attained its point give it a few more boils, and allow the heat to fall a little ; then let two quickly proceed to dip in the fruit, and arrange it on the marble slab. If a great deal is to be done a third may remove the fruit to wire grills, and put them in a stove, the mouth of the oven, or in the sun. Fresh fruit must be picked large and fine, and arranged with twigs, and laid some time in the sun or in a hot room, where the surface- ipoisture may be dried off. Proceed, then, as above. Put bunches of small fruit, barberries, or grapes, which may be done with the grape so^ distant as to be spread or be laid lightly over pne another; or if in larger bunches they must be hung, which may be easily done by tying the bunch, and hanging them over a dish to receive the droppings of the sugar. CARAT. This was in ancient times a weight the 24th part of 1 lb., French ; but at presenij is only used as a mode of expressing the amount of gold contained in any article composed of that metal. If that article is said to be twenty- four carats fine, it ought to be all gold ; if twelve carats fine, it ought to be of an alloy containing half its weight of gold, and so on. CARAWAY BRANDY. Steep 1 oz. of cara- way seeds and 6 ozs. of loaf sugar in 1 quart of brandy. Let it stand nine days and draw it off. CARAWAY CAKES. To 1 lb. of flour add 3 lb. of fresh butter, 8 spoonsful of good yeast, 4 spoonsful of rose water, the yolks of 3 eggs, as many caraways as you please, 4 ozs. of sugar.[ 234 ] CAR OAR and some ambergris. Knead all into a paste, malce it up into any forms you please, and when they come out of the oven strew powder sugar. CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some fine caraway seeds, sift all the dust from them, and have a large copper preserving-pan about two feet wide, and with 2 handles and 2 pieces of iron, made as a ring on each side; then you must have a pulley fixed to a beam, and a cord with a hook at each end, so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let it sling; then have some fine starch, as white as you can get, and just soften it. Boil some syrup a quarter of an hour and mix it with starch ; take some gum arable, put it into some water, then put that into another pan, and make it just warm. Have an iron pot with a charcoal fire under the large pan, but not too hot; only just keep the pan warm. Have a large tub to put your pot of fire at the bottom, and your large pan must be on the top; put the caraway seeds into your pan, add a large ladleful of gum arable, rub them with your hands till you find they are dry ; then put a ladleful of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan of fire until you find they are all dry. Put the gum only three or four times to them at first, then the starch and sugar, and boil your syrup more when you find they coat with it, and not so much starch. When you have dried them seven or eight times put them into your sieve. Put them into the stove, do them the next day, and so successively for six or seven days. CARAWAY PUFFS. Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a solid froth ; add to them some sifted sugar and some caraway seeds pounded very fine. Put in the mixture with a spoon, in pieces about the size of a shilling, as high as you can, on sheets of damp wafer-paper, and bake them in a slack oven. CARAWAY WATER. Take 3 gallons of proof spirits and ^ gallon of water; add to them i lb. of bruised caraway seeds, distil and sweeten the juice with 1^ lb. of brown sugar. CARBONATE OF POTASH is useful for correcting acidity of the stomach, and is not so weakening as carbonate of soda. It may be taken in doses of from 5 to 30 grains. One of the most pleasant of effervescent draughts is made by dissolving 20 grains of carbonate of potash in the third part of a tumbler of water, and 17 grains of citric acid in another third. When dissolved mix the solutions, and drink while effervescing. If tartaric acid, instead of citric is used, 18 grains are required. CARBONATE OF SODA may be used for the same purposes as stated of carbonate of potash. If employed in making an effervescent draught, 10 grains of citric or 11 grains of tar- taric acid are required for 20 grains of the carbonate. A tea-spoonful of either of these carbonates should be added to the water in which cabbages, peas, kidney beans, or other vegetable desirable to have of a green colour are boiled. As much of the dry powder of these carbonates as would lie upon a threepenny piece will, if put into the tea-pot, render the hardest water efficient in drawing out the strength of the tea. To soften the water—that is, to decompose the calcareous salts which otherwise would take the soda fx'om the soap and cause its fatty portion to curdle, and thus waste it—washerwomen use a coarse subcarbonate of soda. Housemaids ought to use it and sand for scorning floors or other woodwork not painted. For washing, into 1 gallon of water put a handful of soda, and f lb. of soap. Boil them together until the soap is dissolved, and then pour out the liquor for use. This mode of preparing this detergent for washing will be found far preferable to the usual mode of putting the soda into the water, or of adding, as is usual, a lump to the water in the boiler, in consequence of which so many ironmoulds are produced in many kinds of clothes. In the washing of blankets this mode of proceeding will be found admirable, and render them beautifully white. CARBUNCLE. See Abscess and Boils, where much is suggested applicable to the ti'eat- ment of this collection of matter, which differs from them chiefly in having a greater tendency to gangrene, or mortification, as it is popularly termed. In carbuncle there is great heat and pain on some part, very frequently the back of the neck, where a pimple soon appears attended by excessive itching. The tumour inci'eases in size, becomes purple, a dark matter is discharged, and a slough appears ; several openings appear; a green, ofi'ensive matter is discharged, and gangrene comes on. This is the progress of the disease if not timely checked, and to do so we recommend this treatment, given by Dr. Macaulay, in his " Dictionary of Medicine :"— The tumour is to be treated with fomentations and emollient poultices, till there be a con- siderable degree of softness about it, and when this is the case it should be very freely opened, to allow the matter and sloughs to escape. Two deep and free incisions, crossing each other, are to be made in the carbuncle from side to side of it, and it is astonishing to see how soon these extensive wounds heal. Extensive though they be they are quite necessary; and nothing can be more injurious, or tend more to lengthen out the disease, and even to induce a fatal termina- tion, than the insignificant openings which form of themselves, which only allow the thinner matter to escape, while the sloughs are confined within, and unhealthy actions are going on. Large poultices are to be continued for some time, and as the discharge is copious and filthy,CAE, CAR C 235 ] they should be changed three or four times a day. This treatment is to be continued till all the sloughs have separated, and till the sore below put on a healing action. We are then to apply any mild dressing spread on lint. Atten- tion is to be paid to general symptoms. We are to keep the bowels open by proper laxatives, to give antimonial medicines in order to keep the sldn moist, and freely to use bark and wine to obviate gangrene and debility. The carbuncles which we meet with in this country, though sometimes bad enough, and when occurring in unhealthy constitutions of great danger, are yet mild when compared with the carbuncles that occur in warm climates. CARDAMOM COMFITS. Procure your cardamoms at the chemists', and they will be in a shell; put them into the oven to dry the skins and they will break; pick all the seeds from them, put the seeds into a large comfit pan, and have a fire under, the same as for others. Mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and finish them the same as caraway comfits. CARDAMOM SEEDS are produced by a plant named by botanists Alpinia cardamomum. They are an ingredient in all good curry powder. They are carminative and stomachic, and prove grateful adjuncts to bitter infusions. They are principally employed to give warmth to other remedies. Dose of the powder, 6 grains to 1 scruple. Cardamom seeds should be kept within their husks, or their virtues will soon be considerably impaired. They are frequently mixed with grains of paradise, which are much hotter and more spicy, but less aromatic in their flavour. CARDAMOM WATER. Take pimento, caraway, and coriander seeds, and lemon, of each 4 ozs.; 3 gallons of proof spirit, and a sufficient quantity of water. Distil, and sweeten it with 1| lb. of sugar. CARDINAL. Cardinal is old Rhenish wine mulled. CARDOONS (in Batter). Having prepared the cardoons, marinade them in vinegar, salt, and pepper. Prepare a nice, light batter, dip them into it, and fry them a light brown. CARDOONS (in Cheese). Add to the sauce in which the cardoons are cooked grated Parme- san or Gruyere cheese, and put it over them when placed in the dish; cover them with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and pour melted butter over the whole. Colour it in the oven, or with a salamander. CARDOONS (Fried and Buttered). You must cut them about six inches long, and string them, then boil them till tender; take them out, have some butter in yoiu- stewpan, flour them, and fry them brown. Serve them in a dish, with melted butter in a cup. CARDOONS (with Marrow). Take a few pieces of beef marrow, all of a size, and put them to disgorge in warm water, to draw out all the blood. When thoroughly disgorged blanch and stew them in a little water, with a little salt, and a few slices of lemon to keep it white. When done put it into the essence, which is nothing but Espagnole reduced. Drain the fat, and do not forget to put a little sugar, which is requisite in all dishes of cardoons, as it makes them much better. CARDOONS: To Dress. Cut them in pieces six inches long and put them on a string; boil till tender, have ready a piece of butter in a pan, flour and fry them. They may also be fried in bundles and served as asparagus, boiled on a toast, and butter poured over. CARDOONS, PUREE OF. Boil some cardoons in a blanc, and cut them into small pieces. Have ready 3 large spoonsful of veloute and 6 of consomme, in which put the cardoons ; set them on the fire till reduced to a paste, and then pass tliem through a bolting. Keep your puree as thick as purees usually are, but, if too thick, put in a little cream. Add a bit of jelly about the size of a walnut. Keep it hot without boiling in the bain marie. CARDOONS, SPANISH. Cut them into lengths of three inches (be careful to use those which are hollow and green); boil them for half an hour; put them into lukewarm water to cleanse them from their slime ; then dress them in some stock, with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little verjuice, and a little butter. When done put them into a cullis with some stock. Cook them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. CARDOONS, STEWED. Cutthem in pieces, take off the outside skin, and wash and scald them. Put them into a stewpan, add stock enough to cover them, boil till three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced; then add a little bechamel, and stew them gently till done. Serve with sippets of fried bread round the dish, and the cardoons in the centre. CARDS. These, whether for visiting, invita- tion, or returning thanks, cannot be too plain. Embossed cards, or fancy ornamented printing upon them, are not suggestions of good taste. When a black edge is necessary do not let it be excessively broad. When the family called upon are from home a gentleman should leave one card for the lady of the house, and another for the gentleman; but a lady should leave only one. A card must also be left for each visitor in the house to whom the compliment of a call is intended. When a visit of condolence is paid, even to intimate friends, it is usual to send up your card. It is held very courteousCAR CAR C 236 ] if that card is black edged. Fashion varies as to wedding cards, but plain, unostentatious ones are never out of fashion. No one to whom, wedding cards have not been sent ought to call upon a newly-married couple. CARD WORK: To Varnish. Dissolve a little isinglass in hot water, and strain it through fine muslin. Brush over the cardwork with this liquid size. When quite dry brush over it a second and a third time even, if necessary. A small brush, called a size brush, is the best for applying it, and a similar brush for the varnish. A very delicate touch is required in applying the first coat of size to avoid making the colours of the paintings on the cardwork run. The varnish may be that mentioned under Canada Balsam, Copal, and Varnish. CARMINATIVE, DALBY'S, is formed of the following ingredients :—Mix together car- bonate of magnesia, 2 scruples; oil of pepper- mint, 1 drop; oil of nutmeg, 3 drops ; oil of aniseed, 3 drops ; tincture of castor, 30 drops; tincture of asafcetida, 15 drops; tincture of opium, 5 drops ; spirit of pennyroyal, 15 drops. Add of peppermint water 2 ozs. fluid. Shake before using the bottle in which the mixture is kept. A small tea-spoonful is a dose. CARMINATIVES are medicines employed to remove flatulency and its attendant pains. Such are ginger, cardamom, peppermint, and other aromatics. If they do not give relief they should not be repeated without medical advice, for they may tend to bring on inflammation. Even dill or anise under such circumstances may be injurious to infants, for dill seed kills the bullfinch, anise kills the canary, and parsley seed the parrot. See Aromatics and Anti- spasmodics. CARMINE is one of the most beautiful reds used by the artist. It is prepared from cochi- neal, and employed in water-colour drawings, in tinting artilicial flowers, and for rouge. Liquid carmine is carmine dissolved in spirits of harts- horn. CARP. Though this fresh-water fish is very tenacious of life, and will exist a very long time out of watej:, yet as it must unavoidably waste in a foreign state of nature, it is best when killed as soon as caught. The freshness of a carp may be known by the colour of its gills, and the diSiculty of opening them. CARP (German way of Cooking). The Germans take a liv6 carp of about 3 lbs., and bleed it into a stewpan, then scale and take out the entrails, which, with the exception of the gall, they convert to food. Having opened the maw and washed it, they cut the roe in pieces, of which, with the rest of the internal parts, they make a soup, either rich or maigre, according to circumstances. In the former case thev use gravy or strong beef broth, with herbs, spicery, and flour for thickening. When the dish is for maigre days, as Lent, they take the broth made of some other fish, and pass it through a sieve, adding thereto a bundle of sweet herbs, and a due seasoning of spices. This is the first dish, and for the second, or stew, they slit the carp quite through the head to the tail along the backbone. When the head is cut off", with a good shoulder, the largest part of the body con- taining the bone is divided into three pieces, which, with the half of the head, are put into the blood in the pan, and dressed as before directed, either with a glass or two of Rhenish wine, or double the quantity of ale, a Uttle grated gingerbread, and sometimes only a small portion of vinegar, adding sweet herbs and spicery according to taste. This dish is usually sei-ved with lemon-juice. The third dish con- sists of the remaining half of the head and body, divided in the same manner as for the stew, and dredged with flour, then dried brown and crisp in oil or clarified butter. CARP : To Bake. Clean a brace of carp, and lay them in a buttered pan; season with doves, nutmeg, mace, black and white pepper, sweet herbs, an onion, and an anchovy; then pour ^ in a bottle of white wine, and send them to the oven. Let them bake an hour, and when done lay them in a dish, which must be set over some boiling water, and kept covered. Pour the liquor in which the fish were baked into a saucepan, boil it a few minutes, strain it ofi", and add thereto i lb. of butter rolled in flour. Let it boil, and keep it stirring. Squeeze in half a lemon, and put in some salt; pour the sauce over the carp, lay the roes round the dish, and garnish with .slices of lemon. CARP : To Boil. In killing the fish save the blood, and have ready some good beef gravy seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and onions. Having boiled the carp and strained the gravy, put the fish into it; then set it on a slow fire for fifteen minutes, and thicken with a large bit of butter rolled in flour. Or, make your sauce thus:—Take the liver with 3 anchovies, a little parsley, thyme, and an onion; chop them all together; then take i pint of white wine, 4 spoonsful of vinegar; add thereto the blood. Stew the whole gently, and put it to the fish, which has been boiled in water, salt, and 1 pint more of wine. Care must be taken that it is not done too much after the addition of the sauce. CARP, BOILED (in Wine). Take the liver of the carp clean from the guts, 3 ancho- vies, a little parsley, thyme, and onion. Chop these together, and take ^ pint of Rhenish wine, 4 spoonsful of vinegar, and the blood of the carp. Stew them gently together, put it to the carp, which must first be boiled in water with ^[ 337 ] CAR CAR little salt and i pint of wine; but after the carp is put into the sauce let it not be done too much. CARP, BROILED. Clean your carp, cut off the tail and fins ; put into the body a piece of butter worked up with sweet herbs; sew up the opening, and make some notches on both sides about i inch deep, rub it with a piece of fresh butter, and cover it all over with crumbs of bread and parsley chopped very fine. Broil it over a gentle fire, and sei-ve with whatever sauce you think best. CARP, BROILED (with Caper Sauce). Having scalded and drawn one or more carp, let them soak on a dish with a mixture of salt, pepper, and oil; then take them out, and broil by a moderate fire. When done serve with caper sauce. CARP A LA CHAMBORD. Clean, scale, and wash a fine carp; skin it and lard it all over with small pieces of bacon, tie it together by the head and tail, put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich or maigre marinade, and let it boil until the bacon is coloured. Dish your carp, and garnish with forcemeat balls, veal sweet- breads, crayfish, toasted bread, artichoke bot- toms, boiled with the cai-p. Reduce the sauce made with the liquor in which the carp has boiled, add two spoonsful of Spanish sauce, then pour it over your fish. CARP AU COMMISSAIRE. Scale, clean, and take out the gills, and skin a fine carp ; lard it all over with small pieces of bacon. Make a farce of sweetbreads, truffles, fat livers, bacon with chicken, or any other poultry. Cut up the whole into small dice, stuff your carp, and sew up the opening fast. Put into a stew- pan 2 slices of bacon, and 2 slices of veal; wrap your carp in a sheet of paper, and put it into the stewpan on the slices of bacon and veal, and cover your carp with 2 more slices of veal. Let the whole sweat over a gentle fire, and when the veal begins to colour, pour into the stewpan a bottle of Burgundy and a pint of rich bouillon, salt, pepper, tarragon. Let the whole boil slowly for three hours. When the carp is done serve it upon a dish over hot water. Strain the sauce through a sieve, reduce it to a proper consist- ence, and pour it boiling over your fish. It is usually glazed with veal gravy, consomme, reduced to a good jelly, and of a fine, clear, golden colour. Garnish your dish with cray- fish, sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, or any other garniture the season may afibrd. CARP A LA DAUBE. Scale and clean a fine carp : if it is old it must be skinned. Lard it, and put it into a fish-kettle with some rich bouillon, 1 pint of Champagne, salt, pepper, coriander, and the-juice of a lemon. Let it boil till the sauce is reduced to a proper con- sistence. Serve it hot. CARP, ENTR£E of. Take a fine caj-p, clean and scale it; chop up some parsley, scal- lion, shallots, tarragon, and other fine herbs ; work in a piece of butter, and when the whole is well mixed together, put it into the body of the carp. Put it into a vessel sufficiently long to let it lay at full length. You must, be- fore you put your carp into your vessel, line the latter with a layer of onions cut in slices, and 2 cloves of garlic, a little Seville orange-peel, salt, pepper. Add 1 pint of wine, or 2 pints, according to the size of your fish. Add 1 or 2 glasses of fish bouillon, or, in case you have not any rea3y, you may substitute boiling water. Cook it over a slow fire for two or thi-ee hours. When it is sufficiently done take it out, and place it on a dish. Strain the sauce through a sieve, and if it is too thin reduce it, then pour it over your fish. CARP, FARCE OF. Take the flesh of two carps, which should be chopped, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve. Soak some crumbs of bread in some good milk; have a few mush- rooms and a little parsley chopped fine. Set the herbs to sweat in a little butter over a slow fire; then let them cool in a hair sieve. Next put the bread, which has been soaked and squeezed properly, with the flesh of the carp, that has been rubbed through a tammy, into a mortar, with a lump of butter of about the same bulk as the flesh of the carp, and season with pepper, salt, allspice, the whites of 3 or 4 eggs, and eggs' whites and yolks together. Farces with butter require more eggs than those with udder. Yet before you put more than three you must try to roll some of the farce in a little flour, and to poach it in boiling water. You then taste, and add to the seasoning if required. When completely done rub it through a sieve, and let it cool in the larder, and use it when you have occasion. This farce is used for petits pates of carp. CARP, FARCE OF (Baked). Take a fine carp, scale and empty it; then detach one side of the fillet without injuring the head. Take this flesh and that of another carp of a smaller size, and make a farce in the following manner:—Take the crumb of two penny loaves, soak it in cream or milk, then squeeze it, and put it into a mortar with an equal quantity of the flesh of the carp, nearly as much fresh butter, a little chopped parsley, and a few mushrooms fried in a little butter, salt, pepper, and spice. When all these ingredients have been pounded in a mortar add a couple of eggs, and continue pounding for a long time; then take a little, and throw it into boiling water, and taste. If it be too delicate—which means too thin—addCAR CAR [ S38 3 an egg more, pound it again, and rub it through the sieve a quenelles, and fill up the cavities in fillets of carp, giving it the shape of a fish. Take care, however, to give it a good shape. Next let it be done thoroughly in the oven, and serve it with caper sauce under it. CARP, FRIED. Lay the fish, after wash- ing it, to dry, then flour and fry it of a light brown. Do the same with crusts of bread and the roe. On taking out the fish set it to drain, and prepare the anchovy sauce, with lemon- juice. Garnish with bread, the roe, and slices of lemon. CARP PIE. Scrape olf the scales, and gut and wash a large carp clean. Boil an eel till almost tender; pick off all the meat and mince it fine with an equal quantity of bread-crnmbs, a few sweet herbs, lemon-peel cut fine, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; an anchovy, I" pint of oysters parboiled and chopped fine, and the yolks of 3 hard eggs cut small. Roll it up with \ lb. of butter, and fill the belly of the carp. Make a good crust to cover the dish, and lay in the fish. Save the liquor of the eels; put into it the eel bones, and boil them with a little mace, whole pepper, an onion, some sweet herbs, and an anchovy, till reduced to ^ pint; then strain it, add to it \ pint of white wine and a piece of butter about the size of a hen's egg, mixed up with a very little flour. Boil it lip, and pour it into the pie ; then put on the lid and bake it an hour in a quick oven. CARP, RAGOUT OF. Draw and scale your carp; then broil it with stuffing over it; cut it in pieces. Put it into n, stewpan with some butter, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, all cliopped up, a pint of white wine, some salt and pepper. When it is sufficiently stewed serve it with a thick sauce. CARP, ROASTED. Stuff a carp with a farce made of butter, bread-crumbs, fine spices, capei's, anchovies, parsley, and gi'een shallots, all finely chopped; lard it with fillets of fresh anchovies, first soaked to take out the salt; tie- it to a skewer, and then fix it to the spit. Cover it over with two or three doubles of paper well buttered, and baste it with white wine, boiled with some butter, two laurel leaves, and a clove of garlic. Serve with what sauce or ragout you think proper. CARP ROES (in Aspic). Prepare an aspic as directed for Cockscombs in Aspic, and fill it with carp roes boiled and well seasoned. CARP ROES (Dutch fashion). Boil a dozen small white onions scalded in ^ pint of wliite wine, a faggot of sweet herbs, a good bit of butter, pepper, and salt. When three parts done put scalded cai'p roes into it, and finish the boiling. They require no longer than time enough to finish the onions very tender. Re- duce the sauce pretty thick; put the roes into the middle of the dish, and the onions round. Mix a little spinach juice with the sauce to give it a pale colour, or a strong green if you think proper. Serve the sauce upon the onions only, or in the bottom of the dish, and the rest upon it. Garnish it round with fried bread. Carp roes are also dressed as a chicken fricassee, with mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, and white liaison sauce. CARP ROES (English fashion). Boil some roes about a quarter of an hour in some good jelly broth, seasoned with pepper and salt. When ready to serve add a bit of butter rolled in flour; simmer it a moment without boiling; add a lemon, squeeze, and let the sauce be of a middling consistence, neither very thick, nor clear and thin. CARP ROES (Fricasseed). Put into a stewpan in a little butter a dozen small mush- rooms, a slice of ham, the squeeze of a lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Stew it a little time on a slow fu-e, then add a little flour, and as many cai-p roes as you think proper, with a little good broth. Stew them a quarter of an hour, and season them with pepper and salt when you put in the broth. When all is ready thicken it with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, some cream, and a little chopped parsley. CARP ROES (Fried). Scald them as usual. When they are well drained marinade about an hour with lemon-juice and a little salt. Drain, and flour them to fry in a very hot fiiture to give them a good brown colour. Drain upon a sieve or with a cloth. Squeeze an orange over, and garnish with fried parsley. CARP ROES A LA BELLEVUE. Scald the roes in warm water, and prepare a stewpan with thin slices of bacon and a slice of ham; add to this a scalded sweetbread, a faggot of sweet herbs, onions cut into hoops pretty thick, a glass of white wine, whole pepper, and a little salt, or none, if the ham is not very fresh. When the sweetbread is almost braised enough put the roes to it, a little broth, and about two dozen crayfish tails picked. Simmer to- gether about a quarter of an hour; then put the sweetbread into the middle of the dish with 2 or 3 of the onion rings upon it, which you baste with white of eggs, to make them stick the better. Fill them with crayfish spawn boiled a moment in good cuUis, and the roes and cray- fish tails round separately. Add some good rich cullis to the sauce, make it pretty thick, strain it in a sieve, and pour it upon the roes only. CARP ROES, CAISSES OF. Blanch thirty well-washed carp roes; drain them ; put into a Btewpan a piece of butter, some champignons, parsley, shallots, all chopped fine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice. Do these lightlyCAR CAR [ ] over the fire, taking care not to let them colour; add the carp roes to them, and let them simmer a minute. Make a round caisse, at the bottom of which lay a gratin; oil the caisse well, and put it on the gridiron over hot ashes ; place the roes on the gratin, and broil them thus. When done take them from the caisse, and dish them. CARP EOES, PIE OP. Make a farce as follows :—Take 1 lb. of pike or carp, and pound it well; then put with it J lb. of panada, and pound it again; add 1^ lb. of fresh butter, grated bacon or calf's udder. When it is all mixed add the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 spoonsful of fine herbs, 8 drachms of spiced salt, 1 spoon- ful of veloute, and J lb. of por-ided anchovies. Take a score of carp roes and a very fine tur- bot, cut them in pieces, weigh them, and put spiced salt proportioned to tlieir weight. Slightly warm 2 lbs. of fresh butter with 2 spoonsful of shallots, 4 spoonsful of parsley, champignons and truffles shred fine. Prepare your pie as usual. Garnish the bottom and sides with the farce, and lay it on some of the turbot. Season them with spiced salt, -and mask them with a spoonful of butilfer and sweet herbs, and a little of the farce ; then lay five of the carp roes, seasoned and masked as above, then the turbot, and so on till the dish is filled. Put in what- ever spice and farce which may remain, and over the whole lay slices of bacon. Cover the pie, and bake it for three hours and a half. When done remove the top, and pour in melted butter and sweet herbs CAEP ROES, RAGOtT OF. Soak slices of ham and veal about half an hour on a slow fire; then add a good bit of butter, with mush- rooms, 2 cloves, a faggot of sweet herbs, a little basil, a glass of white wine, a little veal gravy, and cuUis. Boil these till the veal is done, skim the liquor, and take out the veal and ham. Scald the roes of carp in hot water, and then boil them in this cullis about a quarter of an hour, skimming it well. It ought to be as thick as very good cream. Season it with pepper, salt, and a lemon squeezed. When ready serve it as an entremet. You may make it in maigre, but in that case you must have fish for the cullis instead of ham and veal. CARP SAUCE. Cut up a carp in large bits and put it into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, 2 onions, 1 carrot, and half a parsnip. Soak it till it catches a little ; then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little culUs, a faggot of parsley, chibbal, a clove of garlic, two of spices, and laurel leaf. Simmer for an hour, skim it very well, and strain it in a sieve. CARP, STEWED. Bleed a brace of mid- dling-sized fish in some claret or red port, and stir the whole well all the time. After cleaning and scalding, but not washing the carp, put them into a stewpan, cover them with water, and throw in a handful of salt, some whole pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a large onion, a little horseradish, and lemon-peel, with some white wine vinegar, and stew them slowly. When done take the pan off and cover it close. Then, for sauce, take some of the liquor in which the fish were stewed, and add to it 2 anchovies, some whole pepper, powdered mace, horseradish, lemon-peel, and a small onion. Boil the whole till the anchovies are dissolved, and put in the blood and wine with 2 spoonsful of rich gravy. When it boils up strain off the liquor, and, having thickened it with flour and butter, pour it over the carp. Garnish with slices of lemon, fried sippets of bread, and barberries. In Ger- many a substitute for wine is made of strong ale or beer, with grated gingerbread, and some colouring. CARP, STEWED (with Wine). Take a carp, being well cleaned, crimp it two or three times, set it in a stewpan with some good coii- somme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, a few peppercorns. Let it stew gently be tween two fires till well done ; then take it out and lay it on a dish. The liquor must stew, with 3 table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, till tolerably thick. If not quite smooth squeeze it through a tammy; put in the juice of a lemon with a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour it over the fish, which must be garnished with veal forcemeat. CARPETS. These coverings for floors are of many kinds. Turkey carpets are woven with a long pile made entirely of wool; Persian, also long-piled, but some of the richest have floss silk mingled with the wool. Brussels is composed of wool woven on strong linen threads ; the best weigh If lbs. per yard. Wilton is Brussels with the worsted loops cut so as to form a short pile Royal Wilton, or velvet pile, has a still longer pile. Axminster is of linen threads and tufts of worsted woven upon them. Tliey are usually in one piece to fit the room. Kidderminster is woven of woollen threads only, and is not durable. Scotch is much the same. Dutch is yard-wide, like the Kidderminster, but stronger. Veneti-an is on hemp, cotton, or woollen threads, but well covered with the wool of the woof, and very durable. Carpeting is rather a momentous branch of household furniture. In our cold climate we require the floors of all the rooms and passages to be covered; and, even at the cheapest rate, it is the cause of considerable expense. Carpets in sitting-rooms, where the flooring is not of oak, are generally made to cover the whole room and to fit into all the corners and recesses. This is the handsomest way of laying them down;CAR CAR [ 240 ] but it Ib not by any means the cheapest, nor is it really required. The waste of cutting carpets to fit the room exactly is in some cases excessive, and when the material is expensive the loss is serious. Cheap carpeting, neat drugget, or cocoa-nut matting, according to the style of the room, may be laid down so as to fill up the re- cesses, and occupy the floor of the room like a border, and the carpet itself, made either square or oblong, may then be laid down in the centre to cover the edges of the under-carpet, which should be nailed neatly and closely with small tacks to the floor. The boards should be laid as even as possible beneath the carpet; wherever there is any inequality in the boards the carpet will wear out; and any appearance of this should im- mediately be attended to and the carpet moved. Sheets of paper laid over the floor before putting down the carpet greatly preserve it. If it is a square, it can very easily be turned in the room, that each part may be equally worn ; for there are always portions of a sitting-room, such as the fire place, doorway &c., where more wear and tear takes place : and if the carpet is neg- lected, these spots will soon begin to look pale and threadbare. In family rooms where there are young people, and children especially, it is a good plan to lay down neat pieces of drugget wliere the chief traffic takes place ; these can be taken up and shaken with ease and replaced when worn out or stained. It is better to recon- cile oneself to what we might at first consider " so ugly," than to be worried and vexed at boys coming in with dirty shoes, or to see a nice carpet soiled and spoiling with indifference. It is very ti7ing, to say the least of it, when we have few servants, and those none of the best, to see the marks of shoes and spots of grease injuring a nice new carpet, or hurrying an old one faster than it ought to go. In families where comfort and economy are more studied than display, cocoa-nut matting makes a most useful covering for the floors of sitting-rooms, instead of carpeting. It is very strong, clean-looking, easily brushed and shaken, pretty, and cheap. The pattern of the matting- carpet in use is cross-bars of narrow red stripes, the efi'ect being extremely good. Spots of grease are easily removed with hot water and a flannel; dirt from shoes dries and brushes off as easily, and although it is rather more porous than some carpets are, yet it is so light that it can very conveniently be rolled up to admit of the floor being swept, which is a troublesome operation in the case of heavy, cumbrous carpets. This matting is admirably adapted for passages, halls, &c., because of its durability, and it has a much handsomer look, also, than the common matting. It is thick and warm to the feet in sitting-rooms during the winter, and looks clean and cool in summer. The most beautiful of all carpets for dining-rooms are Turkey carpets; but they are so very expensive that they are quite beyond the reach of persons of small income. There is an English manufacture in imitation of them, which is much less expensive, and the soft, velvety texture is attained; but the quiet, sub- dued colouring of the real Turkey carpet is very superior to the bright, startling reds and greens of the imitation. This defect, however, is of little moment, and time will improve them. There is such an endless variety of kinds, and patterns, and coloui's in carpets, that it is not possible to give an opinion as to the best and prettiest. Quiet colours and patterns are always the most elegant. We have admired carpets extremely in imitation of matting, then two or three shades of rich brown, in leafy pat- terns on a light ground, have a very beautiful effect. Bunches of flowers, if not too gaudy, form a beautiful carpet for the drawing-room. Stair carpeting should be strong, and, to assist the wear, a piece of old carpet or baize should be laid under it at the edge of every step. This protects it a good deal, and prevents its getting thin so soon as it would otherwise do. A neat strip of brown holland laid over the middle of the stair-carpet preserves it from quickly wearing out, and has a ciean and neat appearance if regularly washed before it look dirty, or a piece of dark baize or drugget will answer the same purpose, and in towns is preferable on account of the washing. For the landing-places matting may be used. In bedrooms Carpets should never entii'ely cover the floor, or be nailed down; they should admit of being easily moved and very frequently shaken. Dust and flue accumulate so quickly that if the corners of the rooms are filled up by the carpet, or it is laid down under chests of drawers and other heavy furniture, it is not possible to remove the dust properly without very great trouble and care, and inexperienced or careless housemaids will, of course, neglect this matter. When carpets can be quickly taken up there need be no dirty corners, so disgraceful to the servant and so offensive to the mistress. Nothing is so marked a proof of a dirty house- maid as a collection of flue in the corner of a room, or under sofas, wardrobes, &c., where the eye of the spectator is not supposed to intrude. The tables, mirrors, grates, &c., may be as bright as day, but if there are dirty corners there is a dirty housemaid. Carpets sometimes require to be cleaned with a carpet broom, but this should be done very seldom; it scrapes off the nap and ruins them. A clean hand-broom should be kept expressly for brushing them every morning; it is more trouble and fatigue, perhaps, to the servant, butCAR [ 211 ] CAR ,'iot very much, and a good active housemaid will not regard it. It sweeps off the dust and litter from the surface without injuring the fabric, and makes the carpet last immeasurably longer. The brush must not be used for any other purpose, and should not be quite so soft as hand-brooms usually are. A clean dust-pan should also belong to this branch of the service ; whatever is employed that is not strictly clean will soil the carpet in one way, while intended to clean it in another. Crumb-cloths are fre- quently laid under breakfast and dinner-tables, but they are cold to the feet, and either look rumpled and untidy, or are liable to tear the carpet, or catch the foot if pinned down. It is a better plan to have the crumbs removed after each meal with the carpet hand-broom and dust- pan ; and if any little spot of grease appears, it should be immediately removed. Carpets are such expensive articles of furni- ture, and the appearance of a room is so much destroyed if it is covered by one that is dirty or tattered, that pains should be taken to preserve them in a neat state as long as possible. We sometimes see them covered entirely with linen, but it has such a cold, comfortless look, so like a state apartment, that there is no possibility of feeling at ease in the room. Baize or drugget has a much warmer, more hospitable air, and answers the same purpose. On entering a room covered over with linen a shivering formality seizes us, and the comfort and ease of an English home seems, for the time, to vanish. Dirty carpets must be taken up, well beaten, and laid down again. Next every spot of grease must be removed, and this is effected by the following process :—Scrape and pound together, in equal proportions, magnesia in the lump, and fullers' earth. Having mixed these substances well together pour on them a sufficient quantity of boiling water to make them into a paste. Lay this paste as hot as possible upon the grease spots upon the carpet, and let it dry. Next day, when the composition is quite dry, brush it off, and the grease spots will have disappeared. The liquid for washing the carpet must now be prepared in the following manner:—In each 2 gallons of boiling water dissolve 1 oz. of yellow soap and 1 drachm of soda. As soon as it is cool enough for the hand to be immersed in it without iuconvenience or pain, a pail of it must be placed upon the carpet near the spot where the washing is to begin. Near it must stand a second pail filled with clean, hot water. The operator now dips a clean flannel into the detergent liquid, soaks it well, and begins to wash the carpet. The instant the dirt is re- moved, and before the carpet can dry, it must be washed over again with abundance of clean, hot water, for which purpose another clean flan- nel must be used. Thus each portion as it is washed with the detergent liquid must be finislied with the clean water, which should remove every drop of the compound liquor; the flannel rinsed and must be wrung dry, and the carpet wiped with it as dry as possible. In this manner the whole surface of the carpet must be gradually washed and rinsed, not more than two or three square feet of the surface being done at a time. Let the carpets so washed have plenty of time to dry, setting the windows open when the air is dry and the weather fine. When perfectly dry the carpets should be well wiped over with a mixture of ox-gall and water made pretty strong. For this purpose a clean flannel must be provided, and care must be taken that it is not made too wet by the ox-gall liquid. This process restores the colours, giving them their original brightness. Hearth rugs and stair- carpeting may be treated in the same manner, with the only difference that these may be spread and washed upon a table. CARRARA WATER is merely lime-water strongly impregnated with carbonic acid, in the same manner as soda-water. It is taken with much benefit by some persons who are troubled with either acidity of the stomach, or certain forms of calculous disease. It is called Carrara water, because the springs about that town in Italy, so famous for its statuary marble, contain much carbonate of lime, or chalk. CARROT CAKE. Take a dozen large and very red carrots ; scrape and boil them in water with a little salt. When done drain them, take out the hearts, and rub the rest through a bolt- ing-cloth ; put them in a stewpan and dry them over the fire. Make a creme pdtissiere with about ^ pint of milk, and when done mix it with the carrots. Add a pinch of minced orange- flower pralinee, | lb. of powder sugar, 4 whole eggs; put in one at a time the yolks of 6 more and i lb. of melted butter. Mix all these in- gredients well together ; whip up 6 whites to a froth, and stir them in by degrees. Butter a mould and put some crumb of bread in it. In a minute or two turn out all the bread, and three quarters of an hour before the cake is wanted pour this preparation into the mould and balce it. Serve it hot. CARROT FRITTERS. Beat two or three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon; add to \ them 6 eggs and a handful of flour; moisten them with either cream, milk, or white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all well together, and fry in boiling lard. When of a good colour take them off, and squeeze on them the juice of a Seville orange, and strew over fine sugar. CARROT GARNITURE. Cut fine carrots into pieces about an inch in length, in the form BCAR [ 242 ] CAR of mushrooms, garlic, or anything else you may like; blanch them in boiling water and salt and butter, take them out and put them into a stew- pan with stock or consomme and fine sugar. Stew it to a glaze, and if your sauce be not thick enough, add a little butter mixed with flour, herbs, and sauce tournee. Serve with fried CI'lists CARROT MARMALADE. This head- ing will no doubt excite curiosity, which will not probably decline when we state that the carrot marmalade was invented by a celebrated English physician, as an excellent confection to be used at the breakfast-table by persons of a scorbutic habit:—Take any quantity of carrots, those to be had in the months of September and October are the best. Wash them thoroughly in cold water, and cut off tlie tops and tails. Then scrape them well, wash them again, and dry them. Cut them into pieces about two inches in length, dividing the whole cir- cumference into four parts, if the carrots are large, and into two or three if they are small, taking care to throw away any part that is de- cayed. Put these bits into a pan with as much water as will prevent the bottom of the pan from burning its contents, cover them close, and let them stew over a moderate fire until they are tender and fit for the purpose we are now going to mention. Mash them thoroughly, and pass them through a hair sieve. Then prepare and clarify a syrup, using for every pound of pulp 1 lb. of sifted sugar and | pint of water. Clarify it, and boil it up until it adheres to the spoon. Put in the pulp, boil it up according to rule, evaporating the moisture until it forms a fitting marmalade, then put it into pots. This marmalade will keep any length of time. We have seen some of it two years old which was excellent. _ CARROT PUDDINGS. Boil a large carrot «till tender, then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit powder, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, a pint of cream, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange-flower water or rose water, a quarter of a nu.tmeg, and 2 ozs. of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste; turn it out and serve with ?ugar over. CARROT RAGOUT. Cut some carrots about two fingers in length, sharpening them round; boil them a quarter of an hour in water, and then put them in a stewpan with some good stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When done add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the ragout with any dish you please. CARROT SAUCE. Cut the red part of a small carrot into dice, boil them in a little of your best stock gravy till they come to a glaze, then add cullis according to the quantity required. CARROT SOUFFLE. Make a thick puree of carrots, and instead of broth use water, in which put a great deal of sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter. Let all this boil till very tender, then put in the yolks of 6 eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send to table beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with the rest, and put it into the oven. CARROT SOUP. Put some beef bones with 4 quarts of the liquor in which beef or a leg of mutton has been boiled, 2 large onions, I turnip, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan, and stew for three hours. Have ready 6 large carrots, scraped and cut thin; strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth; then boil the pulp with the soup, which must be as thick as pea soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the car- rots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used; add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. CARROT, STEWED. Half boil the carrots, then scrape them nicely, ajid cut them into thick slices. Put them into a stewpan with as much milk as will barely cover them, a very little salt and pepper, and a sprig or two of chopped parsley. Simmer them till they are perfectly tender, but not broken. When nearly done add a piece of fresh butter rolled in flour. Send them to the table hot. Carrots require long cooking. CARROTS: To Boil. They should be washed and cleaned well, but not scraped. An hour will suffice to boil young and early ones, which should be dressed whole; but old ones ought to be cut in two, and will take from an hour and a half to two hours and a half. When done rub off the outside with a coarse cloth, slice them into two or four lengths, according to the size. Try them with a fork. Cold carrot with cold beef is much relished by many persons. CARyiNG: Beef, Bkisket of. This is always boiled, and cut in the direction a h quite dovai to the bone. The outside slice, which should be taken off pretty thick, ought never to be offered to any one. The fat cut from this slice is firm and gristly; a softer kind may be found underneath.[ 243 ] CAR CAR CARVING: Beef, Buttock of, is always boiled, and requires no figure to point out how it sliould be carved. A thick slice should be cut off all round the buttock that your friends may be helped to the juicy. The outside thus cut off thin slices may be cut from the top; but as it is a dish that is frequently brought to table cold a second day it should always be cut handsomely and even. When a slice all round would be considered too much the half, or a third, may be given, with a thin slice of fat. On one side there is a part whiter than ordinary, by some called the white muscle. In Wiltshire and the neighbouring counties a buttock is generally divided, and this white part sold separately as a delicacy; but it is by no means so, the meat being coarse and dry; whereas the darker co- loured parts, though of apparently a coai'ser gi-ain, are of a looser texture, more tender, fuller of gravy, and better flavoured, and men of distinguishing palates ever prefer them. Beef, Edge or Aitch-bone of. As the out- side suffers in its flavour from the water in which it is boiled the dish should be turned towards the carver as here represented, and a thick slice should be first cut off the whole length of the joint from a to b. The soft fat, resembling marrow, is on the back below the letter c, and the firm fat should be cut in thin, horizontal slices at the point d. The upper part is certainly the handsomest in appearance, fullest of gravy, most tender, and encircled with fat. However, some prefer the under side, which is lean. The skewer at a should be drawn out before the meat is sent to table, or, if one is actually necessary, a silver one should be substituted. Beef, Ribs of. The best manner of carving this joint is to cut across the bone, commencing in the centre, and serving fat from a, as marked in the engraving of the sirloin. Another way is to carve the slices from a to c, commencing either in the centre of the joint or at the sides. When the bones are removed and the meat formed into a fillet, it should be carved as a round of beef. Beef, Sirloin of. The under part of the sirloin should be first served, and carved across the bone. lu carving the upper part the same directions should be followed as for the ribs, carving either side or in the centre, from a to c, and helping the fat from c. CARVING: Calf's Head. It should be cut along the cheek-bone, in the fleshy part, in the direction c b, from which two or three handsome slices may be obtained. Part of the throat sweet- bread is situated in the fleshy part at the end of the jaw-bone; this is cut in the line c d, and e<?!teemed the best part in the head. The eye considered by some as a very tit-bit, and, to take this from its socket a, the point of your carving-knife should be forced down on one side of it, taking care, whilst cutting round, to keep the point of the blade slanting towards the inside, by this means detaching the meat from the bone. The palate is found on the under side of the roof of the mouth; by lifting the head up with your left hand it may easily be separated from the bone. Some good meat may be cut from the under side, covering the under jaw, and some fat pared from the ear. Th& brains and tongue should be served in a separate dish. The thick part of the tongue is best. Fish. See Fish. Ham. This may be cut three ways, but the most common method is, to begin in the middle, by taking long slices perpendicularly to the bone from the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at once, and, by cutting aCAR CAR [ 244 ] small hole on the top of the ham at c, and taking thence in succession thin circular slices, the gravy is preserved and the meat kept moist. The best and most economical way is to begin at the hock end, and proceed onwards. When used for pies, ham should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. CARVING : Lamb, Fore-quaeteb op. Take the shoulder from the breast and ribs, by passing the knife in the direction bed, keeping it to- wards you in a horizontal position, that the meat may not be cut too much from the bones. If it is grass lamb and the shoulder is large, lay it in another dish. Squeeze the juice of a lemon, or half of a Seville orange, on the other part, and eprinkle thereon a little pepper and salt. Then divide the gristly part from the ribs in the direction e c, and help either from that or the ribs, according to taste. Mutton, Haunch of. This is the leg and loin, so cut as to resemble a haunch of venison, and, of course, is to be carved in the same manner. Mutton, Leg of. A boiled leg of mutton should be sent up to table as hei-e represented, i.e., lying upon its back. The shank, which should be broken and bent for the convenience of putting into a less pot or vessel to boil, is not broken and bent in a roasted joint. Of course, it should be wound round, after it is taken up, with half a sheet of writing-paper, and so sent to table that the carver in taking hold of it may not grease his hands. Accord- ingly, when he wishes to cut it on the under side, it being too heavy a joint to be easily turned with a fork, the shank should be held with the left hand; the carver will then be enabled to turn it readily, and to cut it where he pleases with the right. A leg of wether mutton (which is by far the best flavoured) is known by the kernel, or round lump of fat just above the letter a. When a leg of mutton is first cut, the carver should turn the joint. towards him as it here lies, the shank to the left hand : then, holding it steadily with his fork, he should cut in deep on the fleshy side, quite to the bone, in the direction a to c, cutting right through the kernel of fat, called the pope's eye, which many are fond of. The thickest and most juicy parts of the leg are fi-om the line a c upwards to b, but many prefer the part which is about the shank or knuckle, especially when boiled; this part is by far the coarser. The fat of this joint lies chiefly on the ridge at a. There is one bone that can be readily sepa- rated from the leg of mutton; it is called the cramp bone, and is to be cut out by holding the knuckle in the left hand, and cutting down at the point d, then passing the knife under the cramp bone in the direction of d to g. CARVING: Mutton, Loin of. Cut the joints into chops, and serve them separately, or cut slices the whole length of the loin, or run the knife along the chine-bone, and then slice it, the fat and lean together. Mutton, Neck of. It should be prepared for table as follows :—Cut off the scrag, have the chine-bone carefully sawn off, and also the top of the long bones (about an inch and a half), and the thin part turned under. Carve in the direction of the bones. Mutton, Saddle of, sometimes called a cMne of mutton, the saddle being two necks, but, as the two necks are now seldom sent to table to- gether, the two loins are called a saddle. A saddle of mutton is a genteel and handsome dish. It consists of the two loins together, the back-bone running down the middle to the tail. Of course, when it is to be carved, you must cut a long slice in either of the fleshy parts on the side of the back-bone, in the direction a b. If sent up with the tail it may be readily divided into several pieces, by cutting between the joints of the tail, which are about the distance of an inch apart. Mutton, Scrag of, when roasted, is very fre- quently separated from the ribs of the neck, and in that case the meat and bones may be helped together.CAR [ 246 ] CAR CARVING : Mutton, Shoulder of. This joint is full of gravy wheu properly roasted, and has many nice cuts. It is first cut in the hollow part from a to b, and the knife should pass down to the bone. The best fat is on the outside edge, and should he cut in the direction e in thin slices. When many persons are at table, and the hollow part a Z> is cut out, some nice slices may be ob- tained on each side of the bladehone from c to d. The space between two dotted lines is the region of the bladebone, and cannot be cut across. Pig, Roasted. The cook commonly divides the body before it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. First separate a shoulder from the carcase on one side, and then the leg, in the direction a b e. Then part the ribs into about two helpings, presenting them with an ear or a jaw, and plenty of sauce. The joints may be divided into two each, or pieces may be cut from them. The ribs are esteemed the best, but some persons prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Pork, Leg of. The leg, when sent to table, should be placed with the back uppermost, and the crackling be removed. If sufficiently baked this may be done with ease. The meat should be served in thin slices, cut across the leg, the crackling being served with it, or not, according to taste. The boues are cut into pieces as they are scored by the butcher. CARVING: Poultry. See Poultry. Tongue. This must be cut ci'ossways, and in the line a b, taking a slice from thence j the most tender and juicy slices are about the centre, or between the line a b and the root. For the fat, and kernel with it, cut off a slice of the root on tlie right of the point at the bottom. See Fish, Poultry, and Game. Veal, Breast of. That part which is called the brisket is the thickest, but it is gristly. Insert your knife about four inches from the edge of this, at a, and cut through it to b, to separate the ribs therefrom. Then ask which part is chosen. The sweetbread will be found at c. Veal, Fillet of. This part corresponds with the round of beef. In helping the guests it is usual to ask whether the brown is preferred. The slices should be cut thin and even. Cut deep into the stuffing, and add thereto, in help- ing, some of the fat. Veal, Knuckle of, is always boiled, and esteemed for its fat and tendons about the knuckle. A handsome slice can be carved only across the fleshy part. About this part is some delicate fat, and cutting in the direction two bones will be divided. Between these fine, marrowy fat is to be found. Veal, Loin of. This joint is sent to table served as a sirloin of beef. Having turned it over, cut out the kidney and the fat. Return it to its proper position, and carve it as in the breast of veal from b to d. Help with it a slice of kidney and fat. The kidney is usually placed upoq a dry toast when removed from the joint. Veal, Shoulder of, is sent to table with the under part placed uppermost. Help it as a shoulder of mutton, beginning at the knuckle end.CAS CAR [ 246 ] CARVING: Venison, Haunch of. Have the joint lengthways before you, the knuckle being the fui'thest point. Cut from a to 6, but be careful not to let out the gravy; then cut along the whole length from a down to d. The knife should slope in making the first cut, and then the whole of the gravy will be received in the well. The greater part of the fat, which is the favourite portion, will be found on the left side, and care must be taken to serve some with each slice. CASCARILLA BARK is obtained from the Croton eleutheria. It is in curled pieces, or rolled up into short quills ; its fracture is smooth and close, of a dark brown colour; odour, light and agreeable. When burning it emits a smell resembling that of musk, which at once dis- tinguishes it from all other barks. It tastes moderately bitter, with some aromatic warmth. Its active constituents are partially extracted by alcohol and water, and completely by proof spirit. It is carminative and tonic, and is an excellent adjunct to cinchona, rendering it by its aromatic qualities more agreeable to the stomach, and increasing its powers. It is valuable in dys- pepsia and flatulent cholic, in dysentery and diarrhoea, and in the gangrenous thrush peculiar to children. It is most efficacious in substance ; it may, however, be given in the form of infusion or tincture. Boiling dissipates its aromatic principle ; the extract, therefore, merely acts as a simple bitter. Dose of the powder, 12 grains- to ^ drachm. CASHMERE WOOL is obtained from about the roots of the long hair of the Thibet goat. Even in Cashmere this wool sells at the rate of 24 lbs. for forty shillings. The wool is spun by women, and coloured afterwards. From it are formed the world-'-enowned Cashmere shawls. On one of these shawls, if full-patterned, four weavers will be employed for six months, and even on a plain shawl two weavers will be occupied for the same long period. The needle is oc- casionally used in the production of the patterns, but Vigne observes that, "if the pattern be worked with the needle the shawl is far inferior in every respect to those in which the pattern is woven in," and that "an excellent pair (the shawls being always made in pairs) of the former description may be purchased in Cashmere for 150 rupees (about a6l5) whereas an equally good pair of the usuleh (the real), or the latter kind, could not be procured for less than 700 or 800 rupees." The process is exceedingly slow, the weaving of a pair of shawls, or, as some writers have it, of a single shawl, often employing three men with a clumsy, old-fashioned loom for a period of six months; and owing to the numer- ous heavy duties charged upon the shawls between leaving the loom and reaching a pur- chaser in this country, the price of real Cash- mere shawls of the best quality is very high. They have frequently been sold in London at from 100 to 400 guineas each, and in one in stance, when the import duty, which has since been greatly reduced, amounted to 80 per cent, on the value, as much as 500 guineas were demanded for a single shawl. The peculiar softness of Cashmere shawls appears to be in some degree attributable to the processes of washing to which they are subjected after weaving. "The best water for this use," observes Vigne, " is found in the canal between the lake and the floodgates at the Drogjun. Some ruins, in large limestone blocks, are lying on the washing-place, and in one of these is a round hole about a foot and a half in diameter, and a foot in depth. In this the shawl is placed, and, water being poured over it, it is stamped on by the naked feet for about five minutes, and then taken into the canal, by a man standing in the water : one end is gathered up in his hand, and the shawl swung round and beaten with great force upon a flat stone, being dipped into the canal between every three and four strokes." The shawls, if coloured, are then dried in the shade, as the hot sun would injure the colours, and about ten days afterwards the same process is repeated, though for a less time. White shawls, however, after being treated in like manner, are spread in the sun and bleached by sprinkling water upon them ; and the alternate washing and beating, and drying and bleaching in the sun is repeated three times, soap being occasionally used in the second washing and stamping. " There is something in the water of the canal," observes Vigne, " which certainly communicates to the shawl a softness which cannot be given to those manufactured at any place in the plains of Hindostan. At the same time," he adds, "those made in Paris or at Nor- wich would be, I think, as soft, were it not for the greater closeness of texture consequent on their being made by a machine instead of the hand. For the same reason," he proceeds, " it is well known that the calico made in India is much softer and is much more durable than that made in England." The water is readily found near the surface of the ground, is bad tasted,CAS CAS [ 247 ] and, Vigne believes, brackish. Old shawls that require cleaning, and sometimes also new ones, are washed by means of the freshly-gathered root of a parasitical plant called kritz. A pound of this is bruised and mixed with about three pints of water, to which is added a piece of pigeon's dung, equal in size to a turkey's egg, beaten up in about an equal quantity of water. The shawl is saturated with this liquor, stamped upon, washed with the hand, and then steeped in the canal. Vigne gives further particulars respecting the mode of producing a fine pale yellow colour by the fumes of sulphur, and various other matters relating to the manu- facture of and trade in Cashmere shawls, and an enumeration of the various kinds of fabric produced in the looms of Cashmere, and states that a cloth called silling is manufactured from the shawl wool in Yarkund and China which resembles a coarse English kerseymere in texture. Various attempts have been made to naturalise the Cashmere shawl goat in this and other European countries, but as the pe- culiarities of its wool appear to be dependent upon climate, the perfect success of any such attempt is problematical. The wool itself has also been imported as a raw material, and Dr. Ure, in the "Dictionary of Arts," article Cash- mere, gives an account of the various plans adopted in France for working both the imported wool and that produced in France from a breed of Thibet goats imported in 1819, into shawls in imitation of those of Cashmere, in which plans the Jacquard loom has been employed to great advantage.—(Supplement to Penny Cyclopadia.) CASSAVA. See Tapioca. CASSEROLE. Take H lb. of Carolina rice; wash it thoroughly in several waters (warm), and then put it into a saucepan at least four inches in diameter. Moisten it with stock in this pro- portion :—If the rice lies an inch thick let the stock come two inches above it, and 4 ladles- ful of fowl skimmings. Place the saucepan on a hot stove. When the rice boils set it on the side, and skim it; then put it on hot ashes ; cover, and let it boil slowly for fifteen or twenty minutes ; stir it. Let it boil as before. In twenty or twenty-five minutes stir it again. If by this time the rice is perfectly soft take it off, but if not add a little more liquid, and continue boiling until it is so. Place the saucepan aslant on the side of the stove, that the fat may drain away, and be taken off easily. As soon as the rice is lukewarm work it into a firm, smooth paste with a spatula. It can hardly be worked up too much, as every grain of rice ought to pass under pressure. If necessary add more stock, a veiy little at a time. When the paste is thus thoroughly worked up form your casse- role of it, first laying it in a heap four or five inches high and seven inches in diameter. Do it with the hand as you would a raised crust. Make the ornaments of the outer surface with the point of a knife, or by carrots cut up for the purpose, taking care that the decorations be de- tached from the mass of rice at least an inch. Attention to this particular will not only add to the beauty of the form, but to the colour also, as the I'aised parts will be lightly coloured, while the ground will be quite white. When properly formed mask the whole surface with clarified butter, and place it in a hot oven for an hour and a half, by which time it will be of a fine clear yellow. Take off the top of your casserole, clear away all the rice inside that does not adhere to tlae crust, which ought to be very thin, and mix it with bechamel, Espa- gnole, or whatever other sauce may be proper. Put it in again, and then fill your casserole with such ragouts as your fancy may dictate. Glaze the surface of the outer ornaments, and serve it. CASSIA, CANDIED. Pound a little musk and ambergris with as much of the powder of cassia as will lie on two shillings. Having pounded them well together, take ^ lb. of fine sugar and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height; then put in your powder, and mix well together Butter some pewter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. CASSIA, RATAFIA OF. Take lib. of cassia, ^ lb. of bitter cherries, J lb. of cassia leaves, and -J- drachm of cinnamon. Bruise the first two, cut up the leaves, and pound the cin- namon ; infuse these ingredients in 3 quarts of brandy for three weeks. Dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in 1 quart of water and mix with the liquor, and let it stand some time longer; then strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. CASSIMERE is said to be a corruption of the word Cashmere; but kerseymere is derived from the mere, or small lake, of the village of Kersey, in Suffolk, where the cloth so called was first manufactured. See Cloth. CASTILE, or Spanish Soap, is made chiefly in Spain, because the inferior olive oil of which it is made can be obtained there at a low price. This soap is formed of that oil and soda. It ought to be quite hard, brittle, and white. The mottling is caused by impurities. In large doses it is purgative, in smaller ones it is decomposed in the sto.mach, and its alkali is carried to the kidneys. In this way it may act beneficially in some calculous diseases, or it may produce its effects by correcting any acidity which may prevail, for the weakest acid is capable of decomposing soap, and of uniting with its al- kaline base. A solution of soap in lime-water was long regarded as one of the strongest sol- vents of urinary calculi that could be adminis- tered with safety, but the result of such a mix-[ 248 ] CAS C A T ture IS nn iusoluble soap of lime and a solution of soda. In habitual constipation and in biliary obstructions it is frequently prescribed, in con- junction with rhubarb, or some bitter, in which cases it can only act as a laxative, or as a chemical agent, in increasing the solubility of the substance with which it is united. It has been also given in solution as an antidote to metallic poisons, and it is often successfully injected as a clyster, in unrelenting and habitual costiveness. As an external application it is used in the form of liniment. It is much used in forming pill-masses. CASTOR OIL is obtained by pressure from the kernels of the seeds of the Ricinus coin- munis. This is a mild purgative : ^ oz. pui-ges without pain; 1 oz. rather violently, but seldom disorders the stomach ; 1 drachm, or at the most 2 drachms, is a dose sufficient for an in- fant. No purgative is so useful where the patient is subject to an accumulation of bile; if given once or twice a week it will prevent its gather- ing. It is also useful in complaints of the kidneys, and in bilious diarrhoea. In the dry bellyache and Devonshire colic it is the best and only purge: ^oz. every four hours, witVi 10 drops of the tincture of opium ; or it may be made into an emulsion in the following form : — Take castor oil, 1 oz.; mucilage of gum arabic, 1 oz.; tincture of senna, 1 oz.; mint water, 4 ozs.; tincture of opium, 40 drops. Blend the oil with the mucilage, pour the mint water on gradually, and keep stirring it; then add the other articles in the same manner. The fourth part may be taken for a dose every four hours. Castor oil, indeed, is so mild in its operation that it may be given to infants; and like all other oils it is a good vermifuge, or wcrm-expeller. In colic, calculous complaints, gravel, iliac passion, obstinate costiveness, piles, dysentery, &c., it is not only the mildest, but the best aperient. It may be taken as prescribed in the abosje emulsion in any aromatic water, such as peppermint, &c. Its taste is by no means <iisagreeable, and in all cases as a purga- tive it may be prescribed; it ought to have the preference given to it, not only from the mild- ness with which it operates, but from its efficacy. CAT. The domestic eat is a variety of the wild species Felts mtus. It does not seem to have been a native of this country, for so highly was this animal prized about nine centuries since that Hovvel Dhu, who reigned over Wales and died in 948, had a law especially regulating its price, and punishing those who stole it. His law enacts :—" That the priceofii kitten, before it could see, was one penny; .until it caught a mouse, two ipennies ; and when it commenced mousing, four pennies." It was then required " to be perfect in its senses of seeing and hear- ing, have all its claws perfect, and, if a female, to be a good nurse ; if the animal failed in any of these specified qualifications, the seller was to forfeit to the purchaser the third part of its value. If any person stole the cat that guarded the gi'anaries of the Prince, he was to forfeit a milch ewe, with its fleece and lamb; or in lieu of these, as much wheat as when poured upon the cat, suspended by the tail, her head touching the floor, would form a heap high enough to cover the tip of the former." The domestic cat, when suffered to retire tc thickets, easily returns to a wild state. Its colour is uncommonly diversified; but the most beautiful varieties are the reddish Spanish cat, and that of Angora, with long silken hair. A tame cat generally attains the age of about twelve years. The female breeds in the first year, though it grows till eighteen months old; she usually produces from four to six. blind kittens after a gestation of fifty-five days. The flesh of animals or fish is the most agree- able food to cats, for they partake of vegetable aliment only from necessity. As they chew with difficulty frequent drink is indispensably requisite to the preservation of their health. There are, however, some plants of which they are excessively fond, and when indulged with them present a variety of whimsical gesticula- tions. Of this nature is the valerian root, and the herb called nep or cat-mint (the Nepeta cataria). On the contrary, they shun other vegetables as tkeir mortal enemies, for instance, the common rue, or Huta graveolens. Any sub- stance rubbed with the leaves of this plant is said to be perfectly secure from their depi'edations. Cats enjoy a warm temperature and a soft couch ; moisture and filth, as well as water and cold, are equally repugnant to their nature ; hence they are continually cleaning themselves with their paws and tongue. Another peculiarity is the purring of these animals, when they are cajoled or flattered by passing the hand over their backs. This singular noise is performed by means of two elastic membranes in the larynx, or the upper part of the windpipe. Their hair is so electric that the expanded skin of a cat makes an excellent cushion for the glass cylinder, or globe, of an electrifying machine. From the intestines of these animals are manu- factured the celebrated Roman strings for the violin. With respect to their peculiarities we tihall remark that cats possess a very acute sense of both smell and sight. By the structure of their eyes, which sparkle in the dark, they are better enabled to discover objects of prey, such as mice and rats, at night than in the daytime. Hence they ought not to be luxuriously fed if kept for the destruction of those vermin. It is, however,CAT [ 249 ] CAT to be regretted that this useful domestic crea- ture is one of the most deceitful companions. Constantly bent on theft and rapine the cat is e compound of cunning and dissimulation, seizes every opportunity of doing mischief, and flies from punishment when detected. It is, there- fore, not a little surprising that many elderly ladies are so partial to these quadrupeds that they will even suffer them to sleep in the same bed—a practice fraught with considerable danger, as the exhalation of cats is extronely detrimental to the lungs; besides which they are liable to hydrophobia, as well as the more faithful dog. With regard to preserving the health of the cat, it is desirable that it should be known that grass is very conducive to their healthfulness. In towns a few grains of wheat, sown in a back yard, will afford a crop of leaves highly service- able for this purpose. When a litter of kittens has to be destroyed, remove tliem one by one at intervals of two or three days ; otherwise tumours are liable to be caused in the udder of the mother. When a cat is seized with delirium it rushes about vio- lently, and then retreats into some dark corner. Slit both the ears slightly with a shaj-p pair of scissors to obtain a discharge of blood, and give a tea-spoonful of common salt dissolved in twice that quantity of water. If a cat vomits a yellow fluid, attended by diarrhcea, it has the distemper. Give the salt as above directed, and then a small tea-spoonful of beef marrow, to allay the irrita- tion of the stomach. In violent diarrhoea give a tea-spoonful of thickish whitening and water, to which five drops of laudanum have been added. Lady Cust, in her little work, " The Cat," gives the following directions how to administer medicine to this animal:—Roll gently the sick cat in a large cloth, such as a table-cloth, care- fully including all the claws of both the front and back, so as to resemble a mummy, leaving only the head out. Then place it upright be- tween the knees of a sitting person, place another cloth under the jaw to keep that clean, and then with a gloved hand open the mouth wide, but gently, at one effort, holding it open and pouring the medicine from a tea-spoon down the open throat; a very little at once, not to cause choking, but letting it be comfortably swallowed in very small quantities. Do not put the spoon into the mouth, as the cat will bite it and spit out the contents, but pour it from the small spoon. Then with a sponge and chilled water wipe off the least impurity from the mouth and chin, rub it dry with a clean cloth, and unswathe the patient, and put it in a quiet, warm, comfortable place for about an hour and a half. Do not give food or drink during that time, or the medicine will return again; as in human beings, it is ne- cessary to watch the effect of your medicine. You must make a temporary hospital of some unused, uncarpeted room, with a fire, as warmth is half the cure, and every creature in illness ixsquires it more than at other times. Have a comfortable bed for your patient, leave a dish of water in case of thirst (where it would not be pernicious), and do not allow any one but your- self to enter, d& quiet and sleep are nature's own and best remedies; without them there is no cure. CATAPLASMS are applications of a moist, pulpy consistence employed in medicine for vari- ous purposes under the commoner name of/Jowi- tice. In inflammation of the eyes: alum, 1 scruple; conserve of roses, H oz.; beat up with the yolk of an egg. In gangrene and fetid ulcer: linseed, ^Ib.; prepared cliarcoal, 3 ozs.; hot water, enough to bring them to a proper consistence. In open cancer: boil 2 handsful of hemlock leaves in 1 pint of water; then strain and add linseed or oatmeal to thicken. Carrot poultice: boil lib. of carrots in a sufiicient quantity of water until they become soft; extract the juice and beat them into a pulp, and make a poultice, adding the juice again ; for scorbutic ulcers or foul can- cerous sores. Linseed-meal poultice: hot water and linseed-meal, equal parts ; smear the surface with oil or hog's lard before applied to promote suppuration. Also, crumbs of bread, linseed- meal, and hot milk, for the same purpose. Effer- vescent or yeast poultice: wheat-flour, 1 lb.; fer- mented yeast, |pint. Mix, and expose to a gentle heat until it begins to ferment; applied on gangrenous parts. To alleviate pain: soak bread in a boiling decoction of poppy heads, and apply it. The bread poultice made with port wine will be found a beneficial application in gan- grene. Sir Astley Cooper, in his lectures, relates a case of a girl who lately had a gangrenous sore where a variety of applications were tried without effect. The port-wine poultice was at length applied, the immediate efficacy of which was so apparent that, though her life had been despaired of the last time Sir Astley saw her, the sore was brought into such a healthy state that there were great hopes of her recovery. The port-wine poultice is also recommended, by the same eminent surgeon, as the best local application to gangrene caused by injuring the toe in cutting corns. Mustard poultice: take mustard seed and linseed, of each powdered, | lb., boiling vinegar, as much as is sufficient; mix, so as to make a cataplasm. Mustard cataplasms, or sinapisms, as they are also denominated, may, in the low state of such acute diseases as palsy and malignant fevers, be applied to the soles of the feet. CATARRH, or Cold. This is a disease arising generally from a sudden diminution of[ 250 ] CAT CAT insensible perspiration, by exposing the body to a damp or cold air after having been for some time under the influence of a warmer tempera- ture. It is at first attended with an increased secretion of mucus from the glands and mem- branes of the nose, eyes, throat, windpipe, &c.: hence a defluxion of a thin, acrid humour, which irritates those glands and membranes, occasions some difficulty of breathing through the nose, with a sense of fulness, and, sooner or later, produces all the usual symptoms of a common cold. To prevent a cold. It is not right, in the beginning of a cold, to make the room where you sit warmer than usual, to increase the quan- tity of bed-clothes, to wrap yourself in flannel, or to drink large draughts of piping hot barley- water, boiled up with raisins, figs, liquorice-root, and the like. This is the right way to make the disorder worse. Perhaps there would be hardl}"- such a thing as a bad cold, if people, when they find it coming on, were to keep cool, to avoid wine and strong drinks, and to confine themselves for a short time to a simple diet, as potatoes or other vegetables, with toast and water. We have known instances of heat in the nostrils, difficulty of breathing, with a short, tickling cough, and other symptoms, threatening a violent cold, go off entirely, in consequence of this plan being pursued. We have found the pulse beat from twelve to twenty strokes in a minute less, after a person at the onset of a cold had continued quiet three quarters of an hour in a cold room. It is not only warmth suddenly applied that will throw any part of the body, after it has been starved or benumbed, into violent action, and bring on inflammation; strong liquors will do the same When you come out of a very cold atmosphere you should not at first go into a room that has a fire in it, or, if you cannot avoid that, you should keep for a considerable time at as great a distance as possible, and, above all, refrain, from taking warm or strong liquors when you are cold. This rule is founded upon the same principle as in the case of any part of the body being frost-bitten. If it were brought to the fire it would soon mortify, whereas, if rubbed with snow, no bad consequences follow from it. Hence, if the following rule was strictly ob- served—when the whole body, or any part of it is chilled, bring it to its natural feeling and warmth by degrees—the frequent colds we ex- perience in winter would, in a great measure, be prevented. The application of the flesh-brush to the neck and hands is, with this view, of great use. On the other hand, the practice, after a cold is caught, of making the room the person sits in warmer than usual, increasing the quantity of bed-clothes, wrapping himself up in flannel, and, particularly, drinking a large quantity of barley-water, gruel, or tea, almost boiling hot, by way of diluting, as it is called, and forcing a perspiration—all this will infal- libly make the disorder worse, in the same man- ner as confining inoculated persons in warm rooms would make their smallpox more violent. Symptoms. When a person in cold weather goes into the open air, every time he draws in his breath the cold air passes through his nos- trils and windpipe into the lungs, and,, conse- quently, diminishes the heat of these parts. As long as the person continues in the cold air he feels no bad effects from it, but, as soon as he returns home, he approaches the fire to warm himself, and very often takes some warm and comfortable drink "to keep out the cold," as it is said. The inevitable consequence is, that he will first perceive a glow within his nostrils and breast, as well as over the whole surface of the body. Soon afterwards a disagreeable dryness and huskiness will be felt in the nostrils and breast. By-and-by a short, dry, tickling cough comes on. He feels a shivering, which makes him draw nearer to the fire, but all to no pur- pose; the more he tries to heat himself the more he becomes chilled. All the mischief is here caused by the violent action of the heat; and the complaints, which are thence produced, might, with more propriety, be called heats rather than colds. Cure. In regard to the cure of a common cold it depends on attention to temperature, diet, and medicine. In the early stages of a catarrh rather a cold temperature, at least one not exceeding from 40° to 50°, is the most likely to be salutary. The covering of the body also, both by day and during the night, should be as light as the external temperature will admit of. Put the feet in very hot water. A rigid attention to regimen is not necessary, whenever a slight cold occui's ; but if it increases or continues for any length of time, stimulating food is to be avoided, in particular wine and spirituous liquors; the solid food should be light and easy of digestion, and the liquid cooling, as toast and water, or acidulated soda-water. The best medicine and the most simple upon the first appearance of a cold is the following :— Draughts for colds:—Take of tartar emetic [an- timonium tartarizatum), 4 grains ; of pure cold water, 2 pints. Dissolve the tartar emetic in the water by trituration ; of this solution, from i pmt to i pint may be talcen every five or six hours. Or, take solution of acetate of ammonia, i oz.; camphorated mixture, 1 oz.; solution of tartarised antimony, 18 drops ; syrup of marsh- mallows, 2 drachms. Mix. them as a draught; to be given every four hours. CATCHUP. See Ketchup.CAT CAU [ 251 ] CATHARTICS. See Aperients. CAUDLE (1). Make a fine, smooth gruel of half grits. When boiled strain it; stir it at times till cold. When wanted for use add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with some nutmeg, accord- ing to taste. You may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoonful of brandy or lemon-juice. CAUDLE (2). Boil up i pint of fine gruel, with a bit cf butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capUlaire, a piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. CAUDLE, BROWN. Boil the gruel the same as for White Caudle, with 6 spoonsful of oatmeal, and strain it; then add 1 quart of good ale, not bitter. Boil it, then sweeten it accord- ing to your taste, and add i pint of white wine. When you do not put in the white wine let it be half ale. CAUDLE, COLD. Boil a quart of spring water. When cold add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, 6 spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and 1 oz. of syrup of lemon. CAUDLE AND FLOUR. Rub smooth 1 dessert-spoonful of fine flour into 5 large spoons- ful of the very purest water. Put over the fire 5 spoonsful of new milk, and add to it 2 bits of sugar. The instant it boils pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire for twenty minutes. CAUDLE, RICE. Mix some grated rice with a little cold water, and then pour it into boiling water. When of a proper consistence add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon. To a quart of this put a glass of brandy. Boil all smooth. CAUDLE, WHITE. Mix 2 spoonsful of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon-peel. Stir it often, and let it boil fully twenty minutes. Strain and sweeten it, add a little white wine, nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice. CAULIFLOWER: To Dress. Cut off the stalks, but leave a little green on. Boil them in spring water and salt. They are soon done, but they must not boil too fast. They may also be dressed in milk and water, without salt. CAULIFLOWER A LA GENOISE. After the cauliflowers are boiled and are cold sprinkle them with Gruyere and Parmesan cheese grated; put them in a dish, buttered and strewed with cheese. Cover the cauliflowers with a thick white sauce, mixed with grated cheese. Sti'ew bread-crumbs on this; then pour butter over, then more bread-crumbs. Put the dish on hot ashes, and brown the tops. CAULIFLOWER, LOAF. Trim and pre- pare a fine cauliflower; then put it into cold water, and drain it. Line the bottom of a stew- pan (of the size of the dish you intend to use) with slices of bacon, and place the cauliflovrer on them with the head downwards. Make a stuffing with a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, all chopped small, salt, pepper, and 3 eggs. When these are all w-ell mixed together put it into the open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing it with the hand. Sea- son it well, and stew it with some stock. When the sauce is consumed turn the cauliflower out carefully on the dish, take away the bacon, and pour over it some cullis, with a little butter, and serve. CAULIFLOWER POTAGE. Take two cauliflowers, boil and drain them, pressing them a little; then thicken a little bechamel maigre with the yolks of 6 eggs, and add i lb. of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Put in the cauliflowers, and when cold divide them into pieces about the size of a pigeon's egg; roll them in flour, and fry them in clarified butter. Drain, and put them in your soup-tureen, and pour over them some rich consomme. Serve it with grated cheese in a separate dish. CAULIFLOWER RAGOUT. Pull two small and one large cauliflowers into pieces, and stew them in a rich brown cullis, seasoned with pepper and salt; put them on a dish, and pour cullis over them. Garnish with sprigs of cauli- flower boiled very white. CAULIFLOWER A LA REINE. Make a sauce with a little ham and fillet of veal cut iu dice, a little butter, chopped parsley, shallots, and a clove of garlic. Let it stew over the fire a little while, then add a few spoonsful of jelly broth, and J pint of cream. Reduce it to a good thickness. Strain part of it into your dish, and place the cauliflower, properly pre- pared, therein; pour the remaining sauce over that. Garnish with bread-crumbs and small bits of butter, and brown it in the oven. CAULIFLOWER SALAD. When you have prepared and boiled the cauliflowers drain and let them cool. Cut them in pieces. Sea- son them with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and eat them as any other salad. CAULIFLOWERS AND BUTTER. Pre- pare two cauliflowers, and when they are drained cut them in pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some salt, and lemon-juice. Let them boil a little at first, then simmer; take care they are not done too much. Take them out, and cover them with a sauce made with butter, worked with flour, the yolks of eggs, and a little cream. CAULIFLOWERS AND CHEESE. Make a sauce with cullis, a bit of butter, and pepper, but no salt. Put iu a dish some grated Par- mesan or Gruyere cheese; place the cauliflowers (previously washed, picked, and boiled) on this.CAU OED [ 25Q ] Pour the sauce ove'-, and cover them with slices of Parmesan cheese warmed, to make them adhere to the cauliflower. Colour it with a salamander. CAULIFLOWERS, FRIED. Pick, wash, and throw them into boiling water, with a little salt, and when three parts done take them out, drain, and put them into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper, and vhiegar. Beat them up in this, and then fry them in a batter made as follows :—3 spoonsful of flour, 2 eggs, a little salt, some oil, and a tea-spoonful of brandy. CAULIFLOWERS AND GRAVY. Blanch and drain the cauliflowei's ; heat them up in a little veal gravy or blond. When done plac(} it on a dish, and add any other gravy you may think proper. Be careful not to break the cauliflowers. CAULIFLOWERS, PICKLED. Cut the cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them into boiling water for a quarter of an hour; then lay them on cloths to drain. Put them in a jar with cloves and salt, and cover them with the best vinegar. CAUSTIC is a descriptive term applied to any substance which destroys the texture of the skin or flesh to which it is applied. Thus nitric acid (aquafortis) when used for destroying warts is a caustic. The term, however, is usually employed to denote the lunar caustic (nitrate of silver). It should be generally known that this is the best of applications to chilblains. It should be rubbed over them as soon as they make their appearance, and it speedily drives them away. CAVEACH, or Pickled Mackerel. Pound and mix together 2 ozs. of Jamaica pepper, ^ drachm of mace, 1 drachm of allspice, and \ lb. of salt. Add to this a large nutmeg grated. Now empty your mackerel, and cut them cross- wise into four pieces, cutting off and throwing away the heads, but carefully preserving the livers, and melts, and roes, in the portions in which they remain in their respective slices. Cover and rub each piece of fish well with the mixed seasoning; put pepper, salt, a little butter, and some anchovies. When nearly cold roll them up into balls about the size of an egg. Moisten them with egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, and fry them of a good clear colour. Serve them with made-gravy. CAVIARE. Caviare is made in Russia from the roe of sturgeons, belugas, and many other fish. The roe is separated from the skin which incloses it, salted, and after eight days, pepper and finely-minced onions are added. It is then dried, and serves as a relish with toasted brea.'l or bread and butter. The best caviare is from the Crimea. CAVIARF* ITALIAN. Rub down some garlic in a mortar with olive oil, add lemon and fins vinegar to taste with the caviare, and mix all well together. Spread it upon bread a-ud butter, as toast for breakfast. The caviare mast be grated. CAYENNE, ESSENCE OF. Put h oz. of the pepper into \ pint of w'hite wine or brandy. Let it steep a fortnight, and then pour off the clear liquor. This is excellent seasoning for soups or sauces. CAYENNE PEPPER. Take ilb. of long red capsicum. Let it be chosen thick-skinned, and of a fine red. Dry it well in the shade. Separate and take off the stalks, put them into a mortar, with one-fourth of their weight of salt, and beat them with an iron pestle. Let care be taken that the mortar is covered well with a skin, as it is dangerous if it gets into the eyes. See Capsicum. CECILS. Mix over the fire for a few minutes the following ingredients : — Minced meat of whatever kind you please, bread-crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon-peel, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little butter, and some atichovies. When nearly cold roll them up into balls about the size of an egg, moisten them with egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, and fry them of a good clear colour. Serve them with made- gravy. CEDRAT is the name the French apply to the citron. To 6 ozs. of citron-peel add 1 gallon of rectified spirit. Distil over 3 quarts, and to these add 1 lb. of the finest loaf sugar. See, also. Citron. CEDRAT BLANC-MANGE. Grate the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar in the usual way until 6 ozs. of sugar have been used. Blanch and pound 1 lb. of sweet almonds, moistening them with water. When perfectly smooth dilute them with 5 glasses of water, put in by degrees; then pour them in a napkin, and, squeezing it, express the milk of almonds from them. Divide this into 2 equal parts, with one of which mix 6 ozs. of sugar, with the cedrat, and with the other portion mix the same quantity of plain sugar. As soon as both are dissolved strain them, and put in each ^ oz. of isinglass. Your mould being placed in ice pour into it the white blanc mange to tlu-ee quarters of an inch in depth. As soon as that is set pour in an equal quantity of the other, which ought to be of a clear yellow. When that also is set pour in some white, and so on alternately till the mould is full. CEDRAT CONSERVE (1). Prepare i lb. of sugar to the ninth degree ; put about 1 oz. of grated cedrat to it, and mix them. When the sugar is half cold add a little lemon-juice, mix them well with a wooden spoon, warm the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases aiad©CEL [ 253 ] CED for the purpose. When it is cold cut it in cakes of what size you please. CEDEAT CONSERVE (2). Rub the rind of a good sound cedrat on a piece of lump sugar, scraping it as you proceed ; dissolve this sugar in lemon-juice. Boil sugar, 1 lb. for each cedrat, to fort perle, then put in the cedrat and lemon, and proceed in the usual way. If you have not fresh cedrat the preserved cedrat must be used as follows :—Pound half or a quarter of one of these fruits, pound or pass it through a sieve, and mix it with sugar boiled as above and lemon- juice. CEDRAT CREAM. Rasp the rind of a cedrat on a piece of sugar weighing lOozs., scrape off the surface and rasp again, as usual. Infuse this sugar in boiling milk, cover, and let it stand till nearly cold; then mix it gradu- ally with 10 yolks, 1 whole egg, and a grain of salt. Strain and finish as usual-. CEDRAT CREAM A LA FRANgAISE. Rasp the rinds of two cedrats on 10 ozs. of sugar, which mix with the yolks of 8 eggs and a grain of salt. Add gradually 5 glasses of milk nearlv boiling, stirring it constantly. CEDRAT, DISTILLED CREAM OP. In- fuse the rinds of 4 very fine cedi'ats in 3 quarts of the best brandy and 1 pint of water; close the vessel tight, and let it stand several days. At the end of that time distil it in a bain marie. If the brandy is of the proper strength, the 3 quarts will yield 2 of the liquor, to which put lbs. of sugar, dissolved in 3^ pints of water. Pass the whole through a straining-bag, or filter it through paper. Oil of cedrats is made in the same manner, with the addition of l^lb. more sugar and i pint of water. CEDRAT, DRIED. Take some preserved cedrats, either whole or in quarters; wash them in a little warm water. Boil some syrup in another pan till it comes to blow; take a large spoon, and rub it well to the sides of the pan till it comes white. Dip your cedrats in, take them out, and put them on wires over another pan. Let them drain well, then put them into a hot stove for one day, till the candy dries all round them. When well dried put them into boxes, and lay a paper between every layer of CEDRAT, ICE-CREAM. Take 2 large spoonsful of essence of cedrat, put them into a basin, squeeze in 3 lemons, and add 1 pint of cream. Be careful that all the essence is melted; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it accord- ing to custom. CEDRAT ICES. Take a piece of loaf sugar, and have a fresh and sound cedrat, which you must grate over a piece of paper on the piece of loaf sugar, scraping with a knife what sticks upon the sugar of the skin of the cedrat, when you have taken off the rind of the cedrat, by rasping or grating it on the sugar. Take a little clarified sugar, boiled very fine, which add to the raspings or gratings of the cedrat, with what quantity of juice of lemon you think requisite for the quantity of ices you intend making, and a little water. Pass the whole through a sieve; then ice it, and finish the same as all other ices. ' CEDRAT, MADELEINE'S. Cut 2 ozs. of preserved cedrat into small equal-sized pieces, which mix with the paste when about to be put into the mould. No other odour must be put in. CEDRAT PEEL, JELLY OF. Take fib. of lump sugar, grate on it the peels of 2 cedrats ; as the sugar becomes coloured scrape it off with a knife and grate it again, and so on until all the peel is gone. Dissolve the scraped sugar in 2 glasses of water, and, with the juice of 4 lemons, pass it through a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a small preserving-pan. Boil it to a caramel height, to colour the jelly. Mix this, the fruit, the syrup, and 1 oz. of isinglass together, and finish in the usual way. CEDRAT PUDDING. Cut the crumb of a roll into slices, and pour over them 2 glasses of boiling milk. Set it on the fire, and stir it constantly till it becomes a very spongy paste; then rub it in a mortar with 6 yolks and 2 whole eggs. Put this paste into a saucepan with J lb. of sugar, on which the zest of a cedrat has been rasped, 2 ozs. of bitter macaroons, 3 ozs. of dried currants, 3 ozs. of raisins, stoned and cut in half, 6 ozs. of marrow shred fine, ^ glass of Madeira, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. When these ingredients are well mixed together pour them into a butter mould, and bake it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. CEDRAT WATER. Take the yellow rind of 5 cedrats, 1 gallon of proof spirits, and 2 quarts of water. Digest the whole in a vessel closely stopped for twenty-four hours ; then draw off 1 gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. CEDRAT WATER (Ice). Take 4 ozs. ot essence of cedrat, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of 3 lemons, 2 gills of syrup, and i pint of water; then pass it through a sieve,- and freeze it rich, and if you have it in the shape of the cedrat, after you have filled your mould, close it well, and cover it with half a sheet of brown paper, before you put it in the ice. CELERY. This root is generally put into soups, but very little is sufficient, as the flavour is much stronger than that of other vegetables. When blanched it is eaten raw; and as a salad with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and mustard. CELERY CREAM. Put i pint of cream[ 254 ] CEL CEL and 1 pint of milk into a stewpan, with neai'ly I lb. of sugar, and let it boil till a third is con- sumed. Take 2 heads of celery, let them boil in the cream just time enough to flavour it. Strain the cream, and beat up with it the yolks of 5 eggs, a little flour, and set it in hot water over the fire, taking care it does not boil. If you wish to serve it cold put in neither eggs nor flour, but when the cream is strained and is lukewarm, mix it with rennet. Strain, and put into a dish for table, set it over hot embers, put a cover over, and hot embers on that, and let it remain till the cream is set. Keep in a cool place till ready to serve. CELERY, ESSENCE OF. Steep ioz. of bruised celery seed in i pint of brandy or proof spirit, and let it stand a fortnight. A few drops will be sufficient to flavour a pint of broth, or pea and other soups. CELERY, FRIED. Blanch the heart and white leaves of celery, and stew it in a little stock. Dry it in cloths. Cut it in pieces, and dip them in good plain batter, and fry them. Sprinkle salt over them when you serve. "CELERY FRITTERS. Take about a dozen heads of celery, and cut them six inches above the roots, which must be rounded. Wash them well; blanch them for a quarter of an hour, then let thera cool and draip Tie them up in four packets. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, and put on them your celery, a bunch of herbs seasoned with salt and moistened with the skimmings of the pot; cover them with bacon and paper. Stew them, and when done drain and press them; then soak them in brandy and sugar; dip them in batter, and fry them. Drain, glaze, and serve them. CELERY, GARNITURE OP. For this purpose the heart and white leaves must only be used. Brown in a stewpan a little fat and a spoonful of flour. Add a small quantity of stock, parsley, salt, and pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in the celery and some gravy, and reduce them over the fire. CELERY AU GRATIN. Take a dozen heads of white celery, trim off the stringy parts, and cut the rest in pieces about the size of a shilling. Boil them tender, and then stew them in good consomme, with a bit of butter, a little sugar, and salt. When nearly done drain and toss them up in some bechamel, with the yolk of an egg. Put them in a dish, and with a spoon sprinkle some clarified butter on that, and then bread-cjumbs. Again brown it with a salamander. CELERY, PUREE OF. Cut the whitest parts of several heads of celery, and blanch them in water to take out the bitter taste. Let it cool and drain; then put it into a stewpan with a little consomme and sugar. Let it stew for an hour and a half, and be reduced till no moisture remains, then mix it with 4 spoons- ful of bechamel or veloute. Strain the whole through a tammy, and put it in the bain marie. When ready to serve put in a little thick cream. CELERY, RAGOUT OF. Cut the white part into lengths, and boil it till tender. Fry, and drain, and flour it; put it into some rich gravy, a little red wine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and catsup. Boil it up. CELERY SAUCE (1). Cut a dozen heads of fine celery into pieces about the size of a shilling. Blanch, and put them into a small stewpan, with consomme enough to cover them, a small bit of butter, a little sugar and salt. Lay a round paper over the whole. Let them stew gently till nearly done, then shake them up in bechamel sauce. CELERY SAUCE (2). Cut boiled celery into pieces two inches long. Put them into a stewpan with some veal gravy which tastes strong of spices and herbs ; thicken it with fib. of butter rolled in flour, and |pint of cream. Boil it up, and squeeze in some lemon- juice. CELERY SAUCE (Brown). Cut into lengths as before. Boil, and drain it; put it into some good gravy, with a little flour mixed in smooth, a little catsup, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Boil all up togethei-. CELERY SOUP. Neatly trim and wash two dozen heads of fine celery; split each in two, and put them to blanch in a large stew pan of water, with plenty of salt. When tender drain them on a sieve, and stir the soup over the fire, with about 3 ozs. of butter, and a very little sugar and salt When the butter begins to look clear, mix in a ladleful of consomme; when that has boiled for a few minutes, and the celery is perfectly? mashed, stir in 3 table-spoons- ful of sauce tournee, and when this is well boiled rub the whole through a tammy; add a pint of strong consomme, and nearly as much thick cream. Put it into a soup pot, set it on the fire to boil half an hour before you want it, and skim it. Serve it with celery cut round, blanched, and stewed. If you wish the soup to be brown instead of white use Espagnole, and no cream. CELERY, STEWED. Boil till tender the white part and cut it in pieces ; stir some cream over the fire with 2 yolks of eggs ; put in the celery, salt, pepper, mace, and grated lemon- peel ; shake all together, but do not let it boil. CELERY ON TOAST. Cut some weU- buttered toast into pieces about three inches square, lay on them celery, stewed according to the above receipt, and serve at table. CELLAR. We shall first confine our re- marks to the wine cellar, but they are equally ap- plicable to that in which beer is kept. It should I[ 255 ] CEL CEL be properly ventilated, and, as repose is a grand requisite in the preservation of wines, a cellar under the house ought always to be preferred to one under the street; it must be kept constantly clean, free from cobwebs, and care must be taken that cats cannot enter and deposit their filth in it. Any unpleasant smell in the cellar when wines are bottling is calculated to spoil them, so delicate are the finer kinds, and so susceptible of combining with any offensive odours in the atmosphere. The cellar ought to be of an equal temperature all the year round. If damp it is very injurious to their quality. In this case they ought to be ranged in the bins, at least three inches from the wall, and the first layer on pieces of wood, so as not to touch the ground; and, if the cellar be very damp, the roof and walls ought to be covered with lead (that of the tea chests will do), so that all the humidity may be col- lected, and a channel ought to be made to carry it off out of the cave. Count Chaptal, in his "Art of Making Wines," thus expresses him- self in the care to be taken in the choice of a cellar:— 1. The ventilators ought to be to the north, as the temperature is then less variable than when the openings are towards the south. 2. It ought to be deep enough for the tem- peratm'e to be always the same, namely, between 55° and 60°. 3. The moisture ought to be regular without being excessive. When too damp the paper, corks, and casks become mouldy; if too dry the casks will give way, and the wine will exude. 4. The light ought to be moderate ; a strong light dries too much, and absolute darkness, or nearly so, rots everything. 5. The cellar ought to be free from all shocks. Motion, sudden agitation, or the shaking by the passage of carriages in the street, stirs up the lees, which incorporate again with the wine and remain suspended in it, and thereby often turn the wine sour. Thunder, and all sudden shocks, are calculated to produce the same effect. 6. Green wood, vinegar, and all matters sus- ceptible of fermentation, ought carefully to be kept at a distance from the cellar. 7. The sun's rays, if they enter a cellar, change the temperature and alter the proper- ties of the wine. 8. Hence a good cellar ought to be several fathoms under ground, its opening towards the north, and out of the way of streets, roads, workshops, sewers, currents of water, water- closets, wood cellars, &c., and vaulted. If the cellar be very damp the wine in wood ought to be placed at a considerable distance from the ground, which must constantly be swept clean. The casks must be examined from time to time, and especially at the equinoxes; the staves may appear quite good at the top, while the bottom staves are quite rotten. The humidity may be lessened by increasing the air apertures, and by the method we have already laid down. When the cellar is of a proper temperature the ullage in a hogshead of wine will not be above two or three glasses a month; but, if the cellar be too dry, the evaporation will sometimes be as much as two bottles a month. The cellar may be rendered less dry by lessening the admission of air. Very damp cellars in marshy ground, and in- fected by bad smells, will spoil all French wines, even those in bottle. Cellars covered with sand are very good for wines in bottle. A good brewer, cellarman, &c., will take delight in the well ordering of his cellar. At- tention must be paid to cleanliness, both in his person and business; everything in the cellar, consequently, should be kept in due order. The brewer or cellarman to the nobleman or gentle- man who maintains a large establishment should occupy himself every morning in the cellars. The following duties are incumbent:—During the summer months have the beer cellars and stairs cleanly washed weekly, and particularly under the casks. Empty the tap-tubs daily into a cask kept for the purpose of containing the slops and grounds, for the cellars, on open- ing, should always smell pure and sweet. By attention to these ofiices the cellars are not only pleasing to enter, but the beer is kept fine and cool during the hot months; whereas, by inat- tention to cleanliness, a filthy cellar will cause the beer to turn sour. During the winter months scraping and sweeping out the cellars once a week will be sufficient. Observe, all cellars in the winter cannot be kept too close and warm, for without great attention to this point the liquors cannot thrive. The following necessaries should be provided for cellars to large establishments. Those fami- lies who brew on a small scale will apply their uses according to their proportionate conve- nience :—Suitable shot, and lead canister with holes at the bottom, and two cloths to wash bottles to be kept in the bottle-rack. Two suitable tubs for washing bottles only, with a form to stand on. Six strain cocks, bungs, corks, vent-pegs, and a mallet. A pair of pliers to draw pegs, and a cork-drawer. A leather boot to buckle on the knee, to contain the bottles v/hilst corking them, for if the bottle breaks the boot saves the liquor. A strong, heavy mahogany cork-driver. Six strong prickles, to be kept in a dry place. Coarse linen to put under the bungs; the old hop sacks will serve. Six tin spouts the size of a beer-cock, made at the lower end as broad as a banker's shovel at the bottom for the beer to work through from[ 256 ] CEL OEM the top cork-hole, -with brown paper round tlie top. A strong iron skewer to raise bungs with. A middle-sized cooper's gimlet, the size of the small spigots and faucets. A quire of strong brown paper to put round cocks, and another quire to make hop-bags with. Two large, sti'ong sponges to clean the outsides of the casks, &c. A pair of slings to grapple the casks with to take into the cellars, for rolling them will cause dirt to hang about them, &c. A pair of strong folding steps. Half a dozen mahogany spigots and faucets, about the size of the little finger, to be had of the best turner (being much supe- rior to pegs, which are wasteful) to try all liquors if they are fine, &c. A strong hammer and an iron driver, such as coopers use to drive down the hoops with, which have loosened from tubs, casks, &c. Two split sticks for cellar candlesticks. Six iron-bound tap-tubs, and brush to clean them with. A whisk for the yeast, wine finings, &c. A 6-gallon tub for the yeast, and pour the beer from it daily, then whisk the yeast up in the tub, and it will be fit for use. Delft labels to hang on the tops of all the liquor bins, as claret, Champagne, sheriy, Calcavalla, porter, cider, perry, port, Rhenish, &c. A pewter crane, and valinch. Four or six ice pails for wines, &c., in summer. A wine basket made to hold bottles that are crusted on their sides to bring from the cellar in that position. A raising-jack to raise wine in casks upon their stands. A flogger to beat up the wine bungs with. Two strong iron-bound pails. A Gun- ter's gauge-rule. A stamped bushel measure, to measure the malt, with a strike. A small cooper's adze. A pair of steelyards, or scales, to weigh the hops, with stamped lead or iron ■weights, to be kept dry. Two tin funnels, to put in spare bottles when bottling off. A large wood, ditto, for all beers. Two low stools to sit on. A leather apron with a pocket before for pegs, &c., and bib to button up on the waist- coat. A flannel bag, with hoop on top, made as a jelly-bag, to run the lees of all wine through. A common corkscrew. An iron-bound wine-can for fining wines in. A hoe, a spade, six good stiff birch brooms, and the same number of strong rag mops. The use of the iron skewer is to raise up the bung by degrees, first giving it vent, for drawing it up with the hands is a dangerous operation. Have a large cupboard made and fixed in the cellar, or near it, m a dry spot, to hold most of the small tools, so that everything may be at hand when wanted. Such tools as are too large for the cupboard may be kept in the brew- house. CELLAR BOOK. This should always be kept. In this let ewerj dozen of wine brought in be entered; and beneath it be left space enough to record how and when each bottle of it is used. See Wine. CEMENT, ARMENIAN, or Diamond Ce- ment, so called because used by the Armenian jewellers for fixing diamonds and other jewels in their places. It is thus made:—Isinglass, 1 oz.; distilled water, 6 ozs. fluid. Boil these together until reduced to 3 ozs. of liquid, mea- sured, then add IJoz. fluid of strong spirits of wine, say 60° above proof. Boil the whole to- gether for a couple of minutes; strain it, and, while hot, add to it first ^ oz. of a milky emulsion of gum ammoniac, and then 5 drachms fluid of an alcoholic solution of mastic. This is veiy ef- fectual for mending broken glass and china, and fastening the loose leaves of books. It must be kept well-stopped, and, when required to be used, the bottle in which it is be placed in hot water until its contents are quite liquid. Make the fragments of china or glass quite hot before using the cement. CEMENT, BOTANY BAY (fob Broken COARSE Red Earthenware. Melt together 2 ozs. of Botany Bay resin, and very finely- sifted brickdust. Apply whilst quite hot, and the earthenware to be heated also. CEMENT, CHINA (for Mending coarser Earthenware), is made by smearing the edges of the pieces with the white of an egg, sprink- ling over this quicklime, previously pounded and sifted very fine, and then pressing the surfaces of the fractures together. This does not resist moisture. CEMENT, FRENCH (foe Fixing Botani- cal Specimens, Artificial Flowers, etc.). Half an ounce of gum arable, 8 ozs. of water thickened with starch, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice added. It keeps well. CEMENT, GUM, or Gum Water. This is usually made with gum arable, but gum traga- canth is far superior for the purpose. Put ^oz. ■ of the best gum tragacanth into 4 ozs. of water, and let it stand by the fire until completely rendered a jelly ; then add 1 oz. of gin, and thin it with this spirit whenever needed. It keeps for mouths, and is excellent for pasting paper. CEMENT, JAPANESE, or Rice Glue. Mix thoroughly rice-flour into a thick paste with a little cold water, then add very gradually (stirring all the time), boiling water, until it is of the thickness desired. Then boil for a minute in a clean pipkin. This very white and trans- parent cement is much used for joining pieces of ornamental paper-work. CEMENT, MARINE (for Joining Wood). Dissolve I oz. of shellac, and the same quantity of caoutchouc, in naphtha, separately, and then mix them together. The less naphtha employed the stronger the cement. It resists water. CEMENT, TOOTH (for Stopping Decayed[ 257 ] CEM CHA Tseth). Sandarach, 1 drachm; mastic, drachm; amber, 4 grains; sulphuric ether, i drachm. Mix in a stoppered bottle, and make them dissolve by a very gentle heat. CEMENT, WATERPROOF (fob Damp Walls). Two quarts of tar, with the addition of 2 ozs. of kitchen grease, are boiled in an iron pot during a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile a quantity of slaked lime and finely-powdered glass are passed separately through a hair sieve, and then mixed in the proportion of two parts of lime to one part of glass. A sufficient quan- tity of the boiled tar is now added to this mix- ture to render it of the consistency of thin plaster. It must be observed that, when prepared for a wall, no more should be mixed at a time than will cover a square foot, because the cement hardens so speedily that it is soon too hard for use. The same caution must be observed when it is applied to unite marble, Portland stone, or any other fractured building material. Care must likewise be taken to exclude from the ce- ment the least wet or moisture, by which it would otherwise be spoiled. On a damp wall a coating of this cement is to be laid about an eighth of an inch in thickness; but if the wall be wet a second coating of the same thickness must be added, when no't a drop of moisture will pass through. The composition has the quality of being imperviable to wet or dampness of any kind. When it has acquired its extreme of hard- ness, which it does in about three weeks, a stucco of lime, hair, and plaster of Paris, may be put over it, or it may be covered and papered like any other wall. In damp kitcliens the cement may be spread upon the floor, if necessary ; in- deed, a floor may be formed of it, and it will prove an effectual preservative against damp or wet. CEPHALIC. See Asarabacca. CERATE is a fatty preparation used for applying to wounds. It is rather harder than an ointment, because it has more wax in its composition, but is softer than a plaster, which has still more. CERATE, GOULARD'S (a Cooling Ap- plication FOR Burns and other Inflamed Excoriations). Solution of superacetate of lead, IJoz.; wax, 2ozs.; olive oil, ^pint; camphor, J drachm. Melt the wax with half of the oil; take them off the fire ; add gradually the acetate of lead, stirring constantly until cool. Lastly, dissolve the camphor in the remaining oil and stir it in. CERATE, LIP, or Lip Salve, fob Dry OB Chapped Lips. Spermaceti, ioz.; white wax, 3 drachms ; oil of sweet almonds, 4 ozs.; alkanet root, f oz.; attar of roses, 15 drops. Tie the alkanet in a muslin bag ; melt the other ingredients together in an earthern pipkin ex- cept the attar; then put in the bag of aiianet, squeeze it until the cerate is sufficiently co- loured ; then remove, and when nearly cold stir in the attar. CERATE, RESIN, or Yellow Basilicon (fob Dressing Ulcers and Wounds). Yellow resin, 1 oz.; beeswax, 1 oz.; olive oil, I oz. Melt the resin and wax, then add the oil, and strain while very hot through a linen cloth before the fire. CERATE, SIMPLE (for Healing Chaps AND Softening the Skin). Olive oil, 1^ oz.; white wax, | oz.; spermaceti, i oz. CERATE, TURNER'S (for Ulcerations and other Wounds of the Skin). Prepared calamine (impure carbonate of zinc), | oz.; sim- ple cerate, 2i ozs. Mix them thoroughly. CHABLIS WINE. See Burgundy Wines. CHAIRS, like all other articles of furniture, vary so in fashion that we shall not enter upon this subject, but shall merely offer some relative, desultory remarks. Square seats are liable to many objections, when considered with respect to their influence on the health of the aged, infirm, and especially persons afflicted with the piles, or troubled with ascarides. For these a round or blunt triangular form of a chair, re- sembling the shape of a saddle, would be far preferable, and more conducive to the alleviation of their complaints. The reason is obvious, be- cause the thighs and legs, when compressed, occasion an additional irritation on a part which is already in a preternatural state of excitement, or, perhaps, subject to chronic inflammation, as is frequently the case in the hemorrhoids. Nor do we advise those patients to accustom themselves to rest upon very soft cushions or pillows, except such as are tightly stuffed with horsehair, dry mosses, or chaff. Hence we are of opinion that the studious, and all those who are engaged in sedentary employments, if they regard their health and convenience, should employ either round, wooden chairs, slightly concave, or such as we have before ventured to suggest. We always experience a feeling of satisfaction on entering rooms belonging to the olden time, where the quiet, comfortable-looking chairs and sofas seem to receive us with ease and hospi- tality, very different from the smart ostentation of the gay furniture of the present day. The old arm-chairs of the past century, once covered with damask or worsted work, instead of being replaced with the ornamented, light, expensive chairs of modern taste, if covered entirely with neat chintz, ai'e warm and comfortable both in appearance and reality; and being strongly and usefully made—as is the case with all old furniture—will last for years to come. If the covers are lined, made to fit well, and fixed by strings to the seat of the chairs, they wiUCHA CHA [ 958 ] wear a long time, and can be washed, with care, several times. It is best to choose for this purpose a stout good chintz, the colours of which should be the least likely to fade. We have seen chair covers made of brown hollaud and bound witli coloured braid ; they were extremely neat and pretty at first, but they quickly soiled and lost their colour so much in washing, that they were soon obliged to be removed. Some- times these old-fashioned chairs are to be met with at brokers', a good deal dilapidated as to paint and stuffing, but otherwise fit for service. A very trifling expense would put them in re- pair as regards the cushioning ; and then, with well-made covers, they would look well in any drawing-room. Sofas may be covered in the same way; and thus much expense will be spared, and a handsome,, comfortable appear- ance attained. Old chairs are often purchased to be covered with worsted work. This is very well as a fancy or amusement, but there is no economy in it. When the work is completed (which, even in worsted, is no trifling expense), it must be mounted, and the chairs handsomely painted to receive it. When this is all done you have furnished your room at some cost. Dining-room chairs are almost always made of mahogany, and the seats covered with morocco or hair cloth; the latter is the cheapest. They ought to be stuff'ed with horsehair ; but there is so much imposition practised in things of this kind, that purchasers should examine the chairs so as to discover whether they contain horsehair or straw, which is occasionally substituted. Some- times at sales very inferior articles are bought; and what appeared at first a bargain turns out to be a dear purchase. In furniture of this kind it is better not to select that which is very cheap if possible, as there is generally some mischief lurking under a bargain. If the frames are made of unseasoned wood, they will soon shrink, and the chairs will be rickety. We are much pleased with what are called lee- liive chairs. They will not, of course, do for dining or drawing-rooms; but for the snug sitting- room, where families always love to congregate and feel at ease, they are most comfortable. For the cottage residence, also, they are very suitable, simple-looking, unexpensive, and easy to rest in; and, if neatly finished, would be quite pretty enough for any person of moderate tastes. If chintz covers wei-e fitted to them they might please the more fastidious eye without much adding to expense. The black leather-work of chairs, settees, &c., may be restored by first well washing off the dirt with a little warm soap and water, and afterwards with clean water. The brown and faded portions may now be re-stained by means of a little black ink, or preferably hlack reviver. and, when this has got thoroughly dry, they may be touched over with white of egg, strained and mixed with a little sugar-candy. When the latter is nearly dry it should be polished off with a clean, dry brush. A similar process will revive ladies' and gentlemen's dress boots and shoes. CHALK so abounds in England that the whiteness it gives to some of her cliffs and soils obtained for her the classical name of Albion, or the ivliite country. Its uses, when burnt so as to form lime, and as a manure, are well known. Precipitated chalk, which is chalk in the state of a very fine powder, is the best basis of tooth powder. It is also excellent for removing acidity in the stomach, simply mixed with a little water. In diarrhoea, in conjunction with opium, it is also valuable, after removing all irritating matters from the bowels by a pur- gative. From its absorbent powers it is a good external application to ulcers discharging their irritating matter. Dose, from 10 grains to 2 scruples. See Whiting. CHALK, FRENCH. This is also called soapstone, from its peculiar unctuous feel to the touch, and its power to remove grease spots. It owes these properties to the magnesia and alu- mina it contains. To remove grease spots, scrape a little of the French chalk upon them, put a piece of paper over that, and press upon it with a hot iron. CHALK STONES are so called because they somewhat resemble half-dried mortar. They are lumps which form about the joints of gouty patients. They sometimes occur about the head when that part has been long afilicted with acute riieumatism. They frequently excite ulceration, and, when they protrude through the skin, may be removed, but an operation of this kind is rarely resorted to. They do not contain any chalk, but are formed of a peculiar salt, urate of soda, which is found also in other calculous secretions of the human body. CHALYBEATES are preparations of iron used in various disorders arising from debility. Females especially should not take these pre- parations, except under medical advice. Chaly- beate mineral waters, as those of Bath, and that numerous description of them, similar to the cold chalybeate waters of Tunbridge, are also much in request. A grain of sulphate of iron, in a pint of water, forms a tolerable imita- tion of them. Aided by the ordinary natural powers, chalybeates are useful in nervous and in other such chronic affections. Pills. Take of cai'bonate of iron, 4 scruples; extract of gentian, ^ drachm ; syrup of orange, as much as is sufficient. Make 24 pills ; three may be taken every morning and night. Or, take of sulphate of iron, 2 scruples; extract of[ 259 ] CHA CHA cinchona, 4 scruples. Make 24 pills, of wliich three should be given twice a day. Confections. Take of carbonate of iron, 6 drachms; ginger powdered, 2 drachms; confec- tion of orange, 1 oz.; syrup of ginger, as much as is sufficient. Make a confection, of which take the quantity of a nutmeg two or three times a day. Or, take of confection of red rose, loz.; ammoniated iron, 3 drachms; compound powder of cinnamon, 2 drachms; syrup of saffron, as much as is sufficient. Make a confection; to be taken as the preceding. Mixtures. Take of tincture of muriated iron, Q drachms fluid ; distilled water, 6 ozs. fluid. Mix them ; a large spoonful to be administered two or three times a day. Or, fake of tincture of ammoniated iron, \ oz. fluid; distilled water, 6 ozs. fluid. Mix them ; it may be taken as the preceding. Or, take wine of iron, 3 ozs. fluid. Two tea-spoonsful to be given three times a day in anv proper fluid. CHAMBER LIGHT. See Candles. CHAMBORD. This is a ragout made of cock's combs, cock's kidneys, fat livers, and fowl's eggs. The combs must be scalded as follows:—Put them into a towel with coarse salt; then, holding eaih corner of the towel, dip the part containing the combs into boiling water, leave it in for a minute, and then take it out and rub the whole together, to take off the first skin that is about the combs, and open your towel. If the combs be not sufficiently skinned dip them into boiling water the second time; but they must not get too firm, as that will pre- vent their whitening. When properly skinned pare the little black points, that the blood may be taken out. Put them into a pint of w"ater, and let them lay on a corner of the stove with very little fire for two hours ; then blanch and put them into a little blanc. Take care not to do them too much. The kidneys must not boil as they would break. Boil the eggs a little to take off the first skin ; throw the whole into blanc, and when the combs are done have ready some Espagnole and a pint of Madeira, both re- duced and then mixed together with large mush- rooms turned, and some small quenelles which have been poached separately. Mix all together and drain the ragoiit, the combs, the kidneys, and the eggs. Put the whole into the sauce with the penelles ; stir gently, not to break the latter; season it well. Add to the above a garnish of soft roes of carp, some good-sized crayfish, and 2 spoonsful of essence of anchovies. To poach the quenelles two must be used, fill one with the farce which has been levelled all round with a knife dipped into boiling water; with the other spoon, which is also lying in boiling water, take the quenelles, and put them into a buttered stewpan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. A small quantity of salt is required in the water. CHAMOMILE. See Camomile. CHAMPAGNE. The wines of Champagne are too well known to require any eulogy. The vineyards of the department of Marne are those only which furnish the famous wine. Some crus of the department of Aitbe produce red wines justly esteemed ; those of Haute-Marne are less exported. The wints of the department of Ar- dennes are of inferior quality, and do not leave the country ; they are called Mezieres, Bethel, Rocroz, Sedan, and Vouziers. The vine is only cultivated in the districts of Bethel, Sedan, and Vouziers. CHAMPAGNES. The wines of La Maine are the object of con- siderable commerce with all France and foreign countries. The vine is cultivated in the five districts, but it is in those of Eheims and Eper- nay that the celebrated vineyards are found. The white wines particularly have contributed to this reputation by their delicacy, their agree- able flavour, and, perhaps, still more by that sparkling which they preserve even in extreme age, and which, if not so highly esteemed by connoisseurs, is at least most sought after by the generality of their consumers. The red wines are also distinguished by much fineness, deli- cacy, and agreeableness. The plants most generally cultivated are, for the red: Morillon, Fineaii, Meunier, and Fromentes; these last two kinds are met with most commonly in the vine- yards of the proprietors. White : Plante d'Or and Epinette alone fill the best crus, but the growers frequently plant the white Gouais, which they call Marmot, and the fruit of which they employ only for wines for their own use. Those who cultivate vineyards in repute never sell the produce of these grapes, lest they compromise the honour of their vineyard. The white and black grapes are cultivated indiscriminately in the vineyards intended to furnish white wines. This mixture contributes to the perfection of wines of this kind, and particularly to the sparkling. The last best resist the frost and rains frequent at the season of the vintage; they ripen more readily, which is very advan- tageous when the weather is cold; but in the hot seasons the excess of ripeness makes the colouring matters susceptible of dissolution after the first pressure, and tinges the liquor. The wines drawn from these grapes preserve better their limpidness and whiteness; they are more full-bodied, and possess more aroma than those made with the white. They have likewise more spirit, and, consequently, less fit to become sparkling. The white grapes, on the contrary, pro- ducing light wines, which sparkle very strongly,CHA CHA [ 260 ] it results tliat the best wines are made with the red and white grapes mixed in different propor- tions. However, there are cantons where few black grapes are found, and yet the wines are much esteemed. In making the white wine without tinge from black grapes much precaution is used. Not only the ripest and soundest bunches are chosen, but also all the dry berries are picked off, and the unripe and rotten. They are placed in large baskets, which are carried on horseback to the press, and carefully covered with a cloth, in order to weaken the action of the sun, and avoid fermentation. The operation of pressing is made with all possible celerity; and this only two or three times, as long as the liquor pi-eserves its sweetness and clearness, or until it acquires more firmness and strength, or until it takes a tinge. The produce of these first pressings gives the choicest wine ; those subse- quent furnish the wines known in the country by the name of vins de taille, which are slightly coloured, of a good flavour, and more spirituous than the first. They generally, in a tenth or twelfth proportion, enter into the sparkling wines drawn from the vineyards of the fourth class. The wines obtained from the last press- ings without being precisely red are sufficiently coloured so as not to be considered as white; they are used advantageously to give strength and quality to the common red wines. The grapes intended for making the vin rose are gathered with the same precaution as for the white, and are treated in the same manner at the press; but previous to the carrying them thither they are stripped fi-om the branch, and slightly pressed in the vessels appropriated to their use, and remain there a sufficient time for the commencement of a fermentation, which, by dissolving the colouring particles, gives to the rest the rosy tint which is desired. Sometimes for this purpose a liquor is used, known by the name of vin de Fismes. It is drawn from elderberries boiled with cream of tartar. A few drops of this liquor suffice to tinge with a rose colour a bottle of white wine, without alter- ing its flavour or wholesomeness. The colour is most beautiful, and keeps a longer time than that obtained from wine suffered to ferment. , The high price of the sparkling wines comes, not only from the quality of the wines chosen to make them, and- the infinite pains required before they are finished, but also from the con- siderable losses to which the proprietors and dealers are exposed in this kind of speculation, and the strange phenomena which determine or destroy the sparkling quality. As to losses the owners count in general fifteen to twenty in a hundred, sometimes even thirty or forty. To this must be added the diminution which takes place as the wine is separated from its deposits by decanting, an operation which is performed at least twice. The phenomena which cause or destroy the sparkling are so surprising that they cannot be explained. The same wine drawn the same day into bottles from the same glasshouse, put down in the same cellar, and placed in the same heap, sparkle to such a height in such a division, whilst it sparkles much less, or not at all, in another position near such a door, or under such an air hole. Wines also which have sparkled perfectly lose this upon the change of season. All these accidents together cause the dearness of the sparkling wines; they are so varied and extraordinary that the most experienced dealers cannot always foresee or prevent them. The quality of the bottles, ou, perhaps, the degree of fire which they undergo, contributes to diminish or preserve the sparkling. We are as- sured that this phenomenon extends even to the drinking glasses, and that in some all the fermentation is instantly lost, whilst it is pre- served in others filled at the same time. The ■wine intended for sparkling should be bottled in the March following the vintage. The fermentation generally begins in the month of May, and continues all the summer; it is par- ticularly strong in June during the flowering of the vine, and in August when the fruit begins to ripen. At these times the greatest loss in the bursting of bottles takes place, and it is not safe to pass through a cellar without being guarded with a mask of iron wire. The work- men who neglect this precaution are severely wounded by the splinters of bottles. The fer- mentation diminishes in autumn, and seldom any heavy losses happen in the second year Amongst the wines prepared for sparkling there are some -which take only a slight fer- mentation ; these are called creynans, drive out the cork with less force, and sparkle less in the glass. Their effervescence forms a scum of froth, which covers the liquor and disperses in a few moments. They have the advantage over the bright sparkling in preserving more vinous qualities, and being less sharp. Their price is higher, as being sought for by many connoisseurs ; and, owing their quality only to one of the strange phenomena in the wines of Champagne, they cannot be obtained in great quantity. The best red wines are produced upon the north side of the declivities of the Marne, which ai-e called the montagnes de Eheims. The vines, although exposed to the north and east, furnish well-flavoured wines. They are divided, accord- ing to their quality, into the wines of La Mon- tague, of Basse-Montagne, and of terre de St. Thieri-y. These wines are in general fit to be[ 261 ] CHA C HA bottled at the end of one year. Those of a good quality keep well from six to twelve years. Red Wines of the First Quality. Verzy, Verzenay, Mailhj, and St. Basle, near Rheiros, produce the best wines, called de la Montague. They have a good colour, body, spirit, and, more- over, much fineness, aroma, and bouquet. Bouzy, at the extremity of the chain of hills, furnishes wines which have all the qualities of the pre- ceding, and are distinguished by their delicacy. Le Clos de St. Thierry, one league north-west of Rheims, produces wines which unite the colour and bouquet in the wines of Burgundy to the lightness of those of Champagne. Red V/ikes of the Second Qoai.ity. Haute- Villiers, Mareuil, Dissy, Fierry, andEpernay, upon the declivities of the Mame, are more celebrated for white than red wine. Taissy, Liides, Ckigriy, Rilly, and Villiers-Amand, upon the mountains, from one league to three leagues and three quar- ters from Rheims, furnish wines partaking of all the qualities of the first class. Cumieres, near Epernay, upon the slopes called de la riviere Marne, is reputed for red wines more fine and delicate than those of the mountain of Rheims, but less body; and so forward that in a hot season they come so soon to their maturity as seldom to keep above three or four years. Red Wines of the Thied Quality. Ville- demange, Ecueil, Chameny, amongst the vine- yards de la Basse-Montagne, give wines of a good quality, which will keep ten or twelve years. St. Thierry, Irigny, Chenay, Douillion, Villefrancqueux, Hernonville, and some other crus of that part called the lands of St. Thierry, produce red wines much sought after, of a deep colour and a very pleasant flavour. Avenay, Champillon, and Damery produce also good red wines, but inferior to the preceding. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. Vertus, three leagues and a half south of Epernay, wines of a good colour, body, and spirit, and very good flavour; not firm during the first year, but gain much by age, find keep long. Mardeuil, Mon- telon, Moussy, Vinay, Chaveau, and Mancy, two leagues from Epernay, give wines more deli- cate, more agreeable, and forward than those of Vertus. Chamery and Pargny, two leagues from Rheims, furnish wines of the same kind as the preceding. Vanteuil, Reuil, and Fleury-la-Bi- viere, two leagues and a quarter from Epernay, wines resemble those of Montelon, but lighter. Amongst the vineyards which produce the vins eommuns are those of Chatillon, Romery, Vineelles, Cormoyeux, Villers, Auilly, Vandieres, Verneuil, and Froissy, as giving the best. The vineyards of Sezanne, and all those of the dis- tricts of Chalons and Vitry-sur-Marne, produce only wines of a low quality. White Wines of the First Quality. Sil- lery, canton of Verzy, two leagues from Rheims, produces the most esteemed wine. It has an amber colour and a dry taste (its characteristics), body, spirit, and a charming bouquet. It has the property of keeping tho mouth fresh, and can be drank in a large quantity without harm; it is generally served iced. Sillery itself, being in a plain, contains but few vines ; they grow on the sides of Verzenay, which is contiguous ; it is there the very best wines called Sillery are produced. Before the revolution the sei- gneur of this uoniain possessed upon the decli- vities of Verzenay, Mailly, and Ludes, a great extent of ei;cellent vines, furnishing wines of the same kind, and of equal reputation with those of Siilery. The greater part of these has been sold to rich proprietors, who still cultivate them with the same care. The wine of Sillery is less sought after in France than in foreign countries; it is particularly esteemed in England. Ay, five leagues south of Rheims, the first of the vineyards, called de la riviere de Marne, furnishes the best sjjai'kling wines. They are fine, spirituous, sparkling, and have a beautiful bouquet, more light and more mellow than those of Sillery. In France they are often preferred, although they have neither the colour nor tho flavour, neither are they so spirituous or sto- machic. Mareuil, near Ay, produces wines not differing from the last, and pass in commerce as viiis dAy. Haute-Villiers, four leagues from Rheims, formerly furnished wines which equalled or surpassed those of Ay; but as many of the vineyards have fallen into the hands of persons who do not cultivate them with the same care, their produce, though good, is now placed only in the second class. Pierry, three quarters of a league from Epernay, has wines little inferior to those of Ay. They are drier, keep a longer time, and are distinguished by a marked taste of Pierre-d-Fiisil. Dissy makes wines which partake of all the qualities and character of those of Ay. The wines of Epernay are in general inferior to those of Ay ; however, soma wines, and particularly those du Closet, produce some equal in quality. White Wines of the Second Quality. The vineyards of Cramant, Anise, Oyer, and Le Menil, from one to three leagues from Epernay, are in general planted with white grapes, which succeed better than the red. Their wines are sweet, very fine, light, and agreeable. MixeJ with those of Ay, and others of the first quality, they furnish sparkling wines possessing all their qualities. This mixture is necessary in hot seasons, because the wines of the first crus of Marne being made with black grapes are less apt to sparkle than those from the white, and these latter insure the fermentation. The wines called Ptysannes are principally found amongstCHA [ 262 J CH A these four crus, which are so much esteemed as aperitives, and ordered for diseases of the blad- der. They are bottled at the end of the year, after the vintage. Wines of the same name are made in the vineyards of Ai/, Piernj, Mareuil, and Sillery; but this Ptysanne has more body and spirit, is drank iced like the wines of Sillery, and is in high estimation. White Wines of the Third and Fourth Quality. The sloping hills well exposed to the sun, with good plants and carefully cultivated, generally produce very good wine. The others are of an inferior quality, and must be reckoned in the fifth quality. White Wines of the Fifth Quality, Chouilly, Montlielon, Gmuves, Mancy, Molins, Maugrimaud, near Epernay ; Beaumont, Villers- aux-Noeucs, near Rheims, produce wines light and agreeable, but weak, which only last a year. When the season is very hot the best are used in the preparation of sparkling wines of the third class, by adding about a tenth of vin de taille d'Ay or Mareuil: giving them body makes them keep better. The environs of Ancerville, Vitry-sur- Marne, and Sezanne, produce wines small, dry, and without flavour, which will not keep, and are all consumed in the country. The principal commerce of Champagne wines is made at Rheims, Anise, and Epernay. The last town is advantageously placed in the midst of the vine- yards, on soil favourable for good cellars ; they are hollowed in a limestone rock, are large, and well calculated for the keeping of wine. Those of M. Moet are particularly remarkable for their extent; they form a kind of labyrinth which requires a guide; the walls are covered to the height of six feet with bottles regularly arranged (400,000 bottles). Few travellers pass without visiting them, and even sovereigns have had the curiosity of going to see them. DE LA HAUTE-MARNE. Red Wines of the First Quality. Au- bigny, a canton of Prauthoy, five leagues from Langres, produces wines of a light red colour, much delicacy, and a very pleasant bouquet. Mont Sangeon, five leagues from Langres: its wines keep well, and only differ from the pre- ceding in a little less delicacy. Red Wines of the Second Quality. Vaux, Riviere-les-Fosses, Prautay, and many other communes, make wines of good quality. The vineyards of Joinville, four leagues from Vassy, St, Urbin, and some slopes of the vineyards of Chdteau-Vilain, of Creancy, and Essey les-Ponts, in the district of Chaumont, furnish a small quantity of wines, light and agreeable, but which have neither the value nor bouquet of those of the first class. The environs of St. Dizier produce a gi-eat quantity of small wines. The proprietors are accused of increasing their colout by black wines and elderberries, and archil, called brinbelles. de l'aube. The vine occupies 30,000 hectares of land, and produces, on an average, 617,000 hec- toliti'es, half of which is consumed in tho country. The plants generally cultivated are, Le Pineau, red and white ; Le Fromenteau, violet and white ; Le Gouais, and Le Gamine. Red Wines of the First Quality. Les Riceys, composed of three hamlets, all situate in a narrow valley three leagues from Bar-sur- Seine, are surrounded by slopes which produce very good wines. The vineyards of the three are of equal reputation. The \dnes are brisk, very spirituous, and well flavoured, -with a nice bouquet and much aroma; they require to ba kept two years in cask to arrive at maturity. The best slopes are La Foret, Les Roties, Tronchoit, Boudier, Rotier, Foiseid, and Chenepestor. Bo- luot-sur-Laigne, near the Riceys, produces simi- lar wines, amongst which those of the side called Vaux are the best. Avirey and Bagneux-la-Fosse, in the same canton, produce wines which ap- proach near to those of Riceys. The most cele- brated vineyard is called Yal des Riceys, at Avi- rey. The wines from these vineyards are gene- rally sent into Flanders, Picardy, and Normiandy. Red Wines of the Second Quality. Bar- sur-Aube, Bar-sur-Seine, Bouilly, Laine-aux-Bois, aniJavernau, produce vins ordinaires, very plea- sant, but unfit for exportation, Gye, Neuville, and LandreviUe, district of Bar-sur-Seine, pro- duce a great quantity of common and coarse wines, of a deep colour, and bearing exportation. On the side called Gravilliers, at Neuville, the plant Pineau is cultivated, and produces wines little inferior to those of the Riceys. Ville- naxe, near Nogent-sur-Seine, is surrounded by large vineyards, which produce much common wine. White Wines. Riceys, already cited for red ^\'ine, produces white much esteemed, lively, sparkling, very spirituous, and well flavoured. Bar-sur-Aube: the wines in this district are good, though with little spirit, and keep well. Rigny-le-Teron, district of Troyes, produces small white wines, tolerably good, and bearing ex- portation. CHAMPOOING is a rubbing and pressing of the muscles to remove rheumatic and other pains from them. Those who frequent Brighton know this process as conducted at Mahomed's Baths. The following description of the mode adopted by the savages of the Tonga Islands shows the origin of this treatment. If, during the day, a chief or other person of I'ank feels fatigued with walking or any other exercise, haCHA [ 263 ] CHA lies down, and has one or more of tBe following operations performed upon him by some of his attendants, viz., toogi-toogi, mili, or fota. Of these terms the first implies a constant and gentle beating with the fist; the second, a rub- bing with the palm of the hand; and the third, a compressing and grasping of the integuments with the fingers and thumb. These operations are generally performed by females, and all con- tribute, we are assured, materially to relieve pain, lassitude, and fatigue, producing at the same time a soothing effect upon the system and disposition to sleep. When performed for the purpose of simply relieving fatigue or lassi- tude, the legs and feet, it would appear, are the parts generally operated upon; but, in cases of local pain, the part affected, or its immediate neighbourhood, perhaps, is selected. Thus, in headache, the skin of the forehead and the scalp in general are subjected to the fota, and often, we are told, with great effect. Sometimes, also, in cases of fatigue, a proceeding some- what different from any of these is adopted, three or four little children being employed to trample upon the body all over with their feet, to the relief and great comfort of the patient, who lies stretched naked on the ground. CHANGE OF AIR. The advantages which attend change of air in the treatment of various diseases have been ascribed by many physicians to the exhilarating impressions thus produced upon the mind, and to the simultaneous change of habits which usually takes place upon such occasions. We are willing to admit the ex- tensive and powerful operation of such causes in the treatment of diseases in general, but more particularly in those cases in which the digestive organs constitute the source of the derangement; for such affections are influenced by the state of the mind to an extent to which it would be diffi- cult to assign a limit. It therefore follows that, in the recommendation of a place of resort for invalids, various circumstances are to be taken into consideration : it is no less important to furnish amusement for the mind than to provide salubrious air and wholesome food for the body. A continual change of residence is, perhaps, better adapted for insuring our object than a protracted stay in any one place. The genial excitement which a succession of novelties pro- duces on the mind, to say nothing of the advan- tages which necessarily arise from the exercise of the body, is more likely to insure exhilaration and cheerfulness, and to break down the associa- tions which continued disease will always engen- der, than a monotonous residence in a watering place, where, after the first few days, the patient becomes familiarised with the objects around him, the spell by which he is to be cured is broken, and his mind is watching every pulsa- tion, in order to discover some indication of that returning health which he so anxiously antici- pates. This truth is beautifully illustrated by an anecdote related by Sydenham, and will go farther in establishing the importance of the principle we are desirous of enforcing than any argument which it is in our power to adduce. This great physician, having long attended a gentleman of fortune with little or no advantage, frankly avowed his inability to render him any farther service, adding, at the same time, that there was a physician of the name of Robinson, at Inverness, who had distinguished himself by the performance of many remarkable cures of the same complaint as that under which his patient laboured, and expressed a conviction that, if he applied to him, he would come back cured. This was too encouraging a proposal to be rejected : the gentleman received from Syden- ham a statement of his case, with the necessary letter of introduction, and proceeded without delay to the pface in question. On arriving at Inverness, and anxiously inquiring for the resi- dence of Dr. Robinson, he found, to his utter dismay and disappointment, that there was no physician of that name in the place, nor ever had been in the memory of any person there. The gentleman returned, vowing eternal hostility against the peace of Sydenham, and, on his arrival at home, instantly expressed his indignation, in no very measured terms, at having been sent so many hundred miles for no purpose. " Well," replies Sydenham, "are you better in health?" " Yes ; I am now perfectly well, but no thanks to you." " No," says Sydenham, " but you may thank Dr. Robinson for curing you. I wished to send you a journey with some object of interest in view; I knew it would be of service to you. In going you had Dr. Robinson and his wonder- ful cures in contemplation, and in returning you were equally engaged in thinkmg of scolding me." There was more wisdom and address in such a scheme than in that which is said to have been practised by Hippocrates, who sent his patients from Athens with no other object than to touch the walls of Megara, and then to return. CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to a caramel height; place them round the inside of a dish; then cut more ratafia cakes into squares, dip them also into sugar, and pile them cornerways on the row, and so on for two or three stories high ; line the inside with wafer paper, and fill it with sponge biscuits, sweetmeats, blanched almonds, or some made-cream; put trifle over that, and garnish the froth with rose leaves, coloured comfits, or caramel sugar thrown lightly over the top. CHAPPED HANDS. The chapping orC H A CHA [ ''264 ] hacking of the skin of the hands, lips, and face, is usually to be avoided by protecting them from sudden changes of temperature, and by Aviping them quite dry after wetting them. The alkali in strong soaps also promotes chapping. Any sort of soap must, therefore, be used spar- ingly by those whose skin is addicted to chap- ping ; and if the water is unchilled (in fact, it should have been boiled), a little sweet oil and barley or oatmeal made into a paste, will answer all the purposes of soap unless the hands are very dirty. Should such be the case the paste may be used after the soap to prevent the effects of the soda. Washing the sore part with vinegar or lemon-juice and water has been found effica- cious ; afterwards applying cold cream, made of six parts of oil of almonds to one part of sper- maceti, with a small piece of white wax to give it consistency, and cold water, added drop by drop whilst melting, in about the same propor- tion as the oil. The following balsams and salves are also recommended :—To 2 tea-spoonsful of clarified honey add a few drops of lavender water ; anoint the affected parts frequently, and the hands before going to bed, covering them all night with gloves. Use warm milk and water for washing. Or, to 2 ozs. of clarified honey add 1 oz. of white wax, ^ oz. of myrrh, and | oz. of silver litharge. Mix these ingredients over a slow fire, adding milk of roses, eau de Cologne, lavender water, or any perfume you choose: keep m a jar or box for use. This is easier prepared than the honey paste of the perfumers, which is of so great repute for preserving a delicate skin, and made as follows:—Oil of almonds, 2 parts ; honey, 1 part; almond paste, 1 part. The honey, after clarifying, is added to the almond paste, and well kneaded together; the oil is then added by degrees, and also a small portion of yolk of egg, previously beaten up. When thoi'oughly in- corporated it is fit for use, and may be perfumed to taste with a few drops of essential oil. CHAR. Cleanse the chars, cut off the fins, tails, and heads, and lay them in rows in a long baking-pan, first seasoning them with pepper, salt, and mace. When done let them stand till cold. Pot them, and put clarified butter over. CHARCOAL is wood burnt under sand, or in some other mode which excludes the air, so that only the volatile parts of the wood are driven off. It is a black, inodorous, insipid, brittle substance; it is capable of destroying the smell and taste of avariety of vegetable and animal substances, espe- cially of mucilages, oils, and of matter in which extractive abounds; and some medicines are said to be even deprived of their characteristic odour by remaining in contact with it, as valerian, galbanum, balsam of Peru, and musk. The use ot charring the interior of water-casks, and of wrapping charcoal in clotlis that have acquired a bad smell, depends upon liiis property. For the same reason it furnishes a very excellent tooth powder, for which purpose that which is obtained from the areka nut, or from tlie shell of the cocoa- nut, is to I e preferred. Lardner's prepared charcoal consists of chalk finely powdered 3 ozs., rendered grey by the addition of charcoal or ivory black 1 oz. It is antiseptic, and has been administered internally to correct the putrid eructations which sometimes attend dyspepsia; but in order to pro- duce this effect it should be newly prepared, or such as has been preserved from the access of air, for it operates by absorbing the putrid gas, as well as by checking the decomposition of the undigested element. Dose, 10 grains to 1 drachm. Charcoal, when mixed with boiled bread, forms a very valuable poultice for foul and gangrenous sores. In a state of impalpable powder it is said to be effectual as a styptic. Dr. Odier in- forms us that the ce\ehra.tedpowder of Faynard, for stopping hemorrhage, was nothing more than the charcoal of beech-wood finely powdered. Charcoal is prepared for the purposes of medi- cine and the arts from a variety of substances, such as burnt sponge, which consists of charcoal with portions of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and subcarbonate of soda. It has been highly commended in glandular swellings of the throat and scrofulous complaints, in the form of an electuary, or in that of a lozenge, and it has been lately asserted that it owes its power to the presence of iodine. Vegetable ethiops, from the fucus vesiculosus, or bladder wrack, is used as the preceding. Besides the great advantage which charcoal affords to the artist and manufacturer, it has lately been employed with considerable success . 1. In correcting the burnt empyreumatic taste of ardent spirits ; 2. In depriving rancid oil of its disagreeable flavour; and 3. In restoring putrid meat. For these useful purposes, however, it is fit only when kept in close vessels im- mediately after it has been prepared, so that it may absorb no acidity or fixed air from the common atmosphere. When employed in the two first-mentioned cases it should be previously reduced to powder, a very large quantity of which is required for the rectification of distilled liquor, but a smaller proportion for purifying animal or vegetable oil, so that even the common train- oil may be rendered fit for being burnt in chamber lamps. From the great attraction which charcoal possesses for any kind of oily matter, or for that invisible something formerly called phlo- giston, it is excellently adapted to become an extensively useful agent in various branches of the arts. Charcoal renders the crystals of tartar very white and pure when employed in pre-CHA CHA [ 265 ■) paring them; the marine and nitrous acids are decomposed by being distilled upon it; the red juices of vegetable fruits are deprived of their colour without losing part of their acidity; brown, rancid oils are rendered sweet and clear by agitating them for some days with charcoal in powder; it changes the smell of putrid vegetables to that of a pure volatile alkali, and produces the same effect on fresh meat. By boiling charcoal in powder with honey the pure saccha- rine parts of the latter are said to be separated, and the honey to become a well-tasted sugar. Vinegar concentrated by freezing, and distilled from a large portion of powdered charcoal, is extremely strong, pure, and fragrant. Corn- spirit merely shaken with charcoal loses its bad flavour, and if honey be added it becomes a sweet and pleasant liquor. Even the tainted flavour of ardent spirits, when impregnated with any vegetable oils, may in a similar manner be destroyed ; and if the spirit be distilled the residuum is said not to be browii, so that no inconvenience will arise from carrying the dis- tillation too far. There are considerable differences in the charcoals of various vegetables with respect to their habitude to fire. The very light charcoals of linen, cotton, some fungi, &c., quickly catch fire from a spark, and soon consume; the more dense ones of woods and roots are set on fire with greater difficulty, and burn more slowly. The charcoals of the blackberry-bearing alder, of the hazel, willow, and lime tree are the most proper for making gunpowder and other pyro- technical compositions. For the reduction of metallic calces those of heavier wood, as oak and beech, are preferable, because these appear to contain a larger proportion of the inflamma- ble principle, and perhaps in a more fixed state. Considered as common fuel those of the heavy ■woods afford the greatest heat, and require a most abundant supply of air in order to keep them burning. On the contrary, the charcoals of the light woods retain a glowing heat till they are consumed without a strong draught of air; the bark usually crackles while burning, which is seldom the case with the charcoal of the wood itself Charcoal is likewise of considerable service to different artists for polishing brass and cop- per plates after they have been rubbed clean with powdered pumice-stone. Horn plates may be polished in a similar manner, and a gloss afterwards given them with tripoli. Coals of different substances are also used as pigments; hence the bone and ivory-black of the shops. Most paints of this kind are not only incor- ruptible, but also possess the advantage of a full colour, and work freely in all the forms where powdery pigments are employed; but they ought to be carefully prepared by tho- roughly burning the substance in a close vessel, and afterwards reducing the coal to a fine powder. In drawing outlines the artist avails himself of pieces of charcoal, the marks of which may be easily rubbed out. For this purpose the smaller branches of a tree, such as the willow and vine, are usually preferred, and which, after being freed from the bark and pith, afford the best drawing-pencils. CHARD AU GRAS. Blanch and dress the chards as celery; boil them quickly in watei% with salt and a little butter; drain, and put them in a stewpan, with butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and blond. When nearly done add a little verjuice or vinegar. Thicken the sauce, and serve quite hot. CHARD A LA VENITIENNE. Prepare the chards in the same manner as Chard au Gras, and finish in the same manner as for Cardoons tn Cheese. CHARLOTTE (I). Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apple into the dish in layers till the dish is full, strewing sugar and bits of butter between. In the meantime soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole in warm milk ; over this place a plate and a weight, to keep the bread close upon the apples. Let it bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish you should use ^ lb. of butter for the whole. CHARLOTTE (2). This may be made with any kind of fruit you please, and is eaten hot. If apples are used pare, core, and cut about a score of them in small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with some water, a good piece of fresh butter, powdered sugar, pounded cinna- mon, and grated lemon-peel, and stew till the ■water is dried up ; then set them to cool in an earthenware vessel. Cut some very thin slices of crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh butter, and lay them neatly all over the bottom and round the sides of the stewpan; then pour in the apples, leaving a hole in the middle, in which put apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with bread sliced thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a hot oven, bake it an hour, and turn it out. CHARLOTTE A LAPARISIENNE. Take ^Ib. of well-glazed spoon biscuits and a small case of green pistachio biscuits, ■which must be cut in thin slices, and then formed into lozenges; arrange these at the bottom of a plain octagon mould in the form of a star, and with the re- mainder cover the sides of the mould, placing them upright, and the glazed sides next to the mould. Fill the interior with a \3Lni\\a, fromage iavarois, but do not put it in till the momentCHE GHA C 266 ] before it is sent to table. Cover tbefromage with biscuits, and surround the mould with pounded ice for about forty minutes; then turn it on a dish for table. CHARTREUSE. Prepare some apples, and place them in a dish like Apples a la Tubque in a puree; pare, quarter, and trim a dozen nonpareils, stew them in sugar as for a compote. Warm some currant jelly and apricot jam , dip the quarters alternately into each, and place them on the apples according to your taste. Warm the whole very gently. CHARTREUSE ALAPARISIENNE. Boil 8 fine truffles in some white wine, and when cold skin and cut them lengthwise with a root cutter ^ inch in diameter ; then take 100 cray- fish tails, or carrots prepared as for Chartreuse Printanier ; trim, and lay them at the bottom of a buttered mould; on them place the trufSes round the side of the mould, so as to form an ornamental border of some open, pleasing pat- tern, the spaces between the truffles being filled with the filets mignona of chickens, previously browned in butter and properly trimmed. On the top of this border lay a crown or ring of the crayfish tails to correspond with the bottom, and cover the whole, to the thickness of an inch, with a quenelle farce pretty firm; then fill the middle with a hlanquette of fowl, v^eal or lamb sweetbread, a ragout, or anything else you may think proper, leaving f inch of space at the top, which must be filled with a farce, Cover the whole with a buttered paper, and put it in the bain marie for an hour and a half. When turned out of the mould make a crown of small champignons, lay this on the top near the edge, and lay in the centre a single champignon; round this place 8 filets mignons in the form of CHARTREUSE PRINTANIER, Scrape 2 bunches of carrots and 2 of turnips, and then cut them into pieces about 2 inches long and f inch in diameter, and throw them into cold water. Blanch them, and then separate them. When cold put them into some good stock, with a small quantity of sugar, and set them on the edge of the stove till nearly done, when they should be placed over a hot stove. In the meanwhile take the trimmings of car- rots and turnips, a dozen onions, with a few cloves, 6 heads of celery, and 2 lettuces; moisten them with some good stock, and let the whole simmer gently, skimming it well until the vegetables are thoroughly done ; then strain the liquor from them, and when it has stood a little time strain it again, so that it may be quite clear; then stir up with some Espagnole. Take 3 small cabbages cut into quarters, blanch them over each quarter, and season them with a little salt. Tie them up, and put them in a stewpan lined with ham and bacon, with a sausage, a piece of bacon, two small partridges larded, parsley, and gi-een onions. Season the whole, and cover it with slices of bacon. Moisten it with consomme, and let it stew over a gentle fire for two hours. Whilst the above is cooking drain the carrots and turnips, and place them according to your fancy into a buttered mould, so as to cover the sides and bottom completely; then drain the cabbages in a cullender, and press the other ingredients in a napkin. Trim the bacon, and cut the sausages into thin slices. Lay the cab- bages lightly in a mould, then the bacon and sausages like a cord; then place the partridges breasts downwai'ds, and bacon and sausages on them, and fill the mould, making the top quite flat, with the cabbages. Lay a buttered paper over the whole, and put it into the bain marie for an hour. Before it is turned from the mould let it drain well. When ready for table the dish and chartreuse may be ornamented in various ways according to fancy. CHEESE. This well-known condiment is the curd formed in milk when coagulated by certain substances, and then pressed and dried for use. There are many different methods of making cheese, but the difference in quality and in flavour depends more on the district in which the cheese is made than in the mode of manu- facture. In some districts whatever mode be practised good cheese cannot be made. Cheese from new milk fresh from the cow is the best making, or one meal Gloucester cheese, of which two sorts ai'e made—thin or single cheeses, about eight to the 112 lbs., and thick or double, about four to the 112 lbs. The single cheese is mostly made from April to November; the double only in May, June, and the beginning of July. In general the milk in winter is not rich enough, and the cheeses made late in the summer do not acquire speedy firmness. The liquid for coagulating milk is called rennet or runnet. A calf's stomach-bag, or maw, is washed clean and salted thoroughly in- side and out. In two or three days, the salt left on it having run, it is hung to drain for two or three days, I'esalted, put into ajar, and covered with paper pricked with pin-holes. It may be used in a few days, but is best when kept for twelve months. When prepared for use a hand- ful of sweetbrier leaves, of dog-rose leaves, and of bramble leaves, as also two or three handsful of salt, are boiled in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour, and when quite cold the salted maw is added. Besides rennet, cheese may be sepa rated from warm milk by many vegetable and mineral acids. Sugar and gum arable are often used, and neutral salts and others effect the purpose, and are preferred in many countries.C 267 ] CHE r HE In making ctieese the milk warm from the cow is first coloured by rubbing down on a stone some annotto, about 1 oz. for each expected 112 lbs. of cheese, and mixing it with the milk. The rennet is then added, about one-third of a pint to fifty gallons of milk. As soon as the milk is curdled the whey is strained off, the curd broken small, put into a vat, and pressed gently for two hours; then turned, pressed again for six or eight hours, again turned, rubbed on both sides with salt, pressed again for twelve or four- teen hours, and finally dried on a board, being turned every day. In large cheeses the sides are pierced with iron skewers, to allow the whey to escape during the pressure, which is very moderate, upon a medium of 1^ cwt. dead weight. Colour is given with annotto root, turmeric, or marigold, but uncoloured cheeses are generally preferred. Cheese is set for curd at 90° to 90°. If too cold the curd is soft, and retains its whey ; if too hot it is hard and tough. One and a half to three Lours are allowed for coagulation after mixing with the rennet. The curd is then worked with the hands and arms for three quarter* of an hour. When freed from the whey it is pierced for two or three hours. It is then put iuto the press, salted, and set to sweat. Somet'mes yolks of eggs are mixed with tlie curd before pressing. Cheshire cheese, famous all over Europe, is made from herds of from 100 to 400 cows in rich pastures, sometimes 2 cwt. or 3 cwt. to a single cheese. The curd is hard if set too warm, and then requires breaking up with the hand, and the green whey got rid of. Gloucestershire has hitherto been the principal seat of this manufacture, but North Wiltshire begins to take the lead. Cheddar cheese is of this kind, and esteemed the choicest sort, but the quantity made is very small. Cheshire Cheese. In general only two meals or milkings are put together, and some- times when milk is scarce three, four, or even five meals. The cold milk being creamed, one- third or half is made scalding hot, and half is then added to the remainder .if the cold milk, which has in the meanwhile been coloured by a piece of annotto tied up in a linen rag, soaked all night in warm water, and then well rubbed nito the milk until the bag has given out all its colour. The other half of the scalded cheese is mixed with the cream, and both the parcels added to the milk warm from the cow. This melting of the cream, as it is called, is thought to be the best method of uniting two or more meals of milk. Cbeam Cheese is made by adding cream to new milk. Of this kind is Stilton cheese. The cream of the night's milk is added to the morn- ing's milk, along with the rennet. The curd is not broken, but put into a sieve to drain, and very gently pressed. When the cheese is suf- ficiently firm it is put into a wooden ring, and kept on a dry board. A thicker sort of this cheese is called Gotten- ham cheese. DuNLOP Cheese, of Scotland, is also made from the evening meal of milk, warmed, mixed with the morning meal, and the rennet added imme- diately. No colouring is used. The whey as it gathers is ladled off, the curd drained, and even pressed with a light weight. It is then cut up by a knife with three or four blades, salted, mixed by the hand, and pressed by a heavy stone of from 10 cwt. to 20 cwt., being frequently taken out and examined. When all the whey is pressed the cheese is taken out, turned, and rubbed frequently with a coarse cloth. The usual size is from 30 lbs. to 60 lbs. in weight. Lincolnshire Cream Cheese, called in Lon- don neiv cheese, is made in the same manner as Cream Cheese. It is pressed with a 2-lb. weight, and sold when only a few days old. York cream cheese is thus made :—The curd, when turned out of the sieve, is cut into a square cake or tile, placed on rushes, covered with them, and pressed with ^ lb. weight. It can only be kept in a cool place, and for a few days. The whey left in the curd becomes acescent, and this acidity is agreeable to some palates. Cheese made from new iitilk mixed with shim milk. The half-covered milk Gloucester cheese is of this sort. It is usually marked with a heart, to distinguish it from the best-covered milk cheese, and is often called Warwickshire cheese. Skimmed Milk Cheese. This cheese is only made in those districts where butter is the chief object of the dairyman, and the milk is used after it has been skimmed, as in Essex and Suffolk. The English cheese of this kind has seldom a good flavour; but, although it is gene- rally nearly as hard as horn, it is much easier of digestion than some of the soft cheeses. The Dutch round cheeses which belong to this class are of fine flavour. CHEESE : To Make. Pour out the milk, as soon as brought warm from the cow, into the cheese tub ; add a sufficient quantity of rennet to turn it, and cover it over with a cloth. This will make what is called one-meal cheese. Let it stand till it is completely turned; then cut the curd with a cheese knife or skimming-disli into uniform pieces. Cover up the tub, and allow it to remain about twenty minutes. The pieces having settled, ladle off the whey gently, gather and press the curd towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass through the fingers; then break the curd as small as possible, and salt it to taste, either in the proportion of a hand-CHE [ 268 ] CHE ful of salt for every 6 gallons of milk, or about ^ oz. to about lib. of curd. If the cheese be made of two meals of milk, unless iu very hot weather, a portion of the creamed milk of the first meal should be made scalding hot, and poured back into the cold; then, when well mixed, it should be poured into a cheese tub, and the second meal of milk added warm from the cow. If, however, the milk be too hot, the cheese will be tough, as the tender- ness of the curd depends upon the coolness of the milk. In making very rich cheese the whey should be allowed to run off slowly, for if forced it might carry off much of the fat of the cheese. This happens more or less in eveiy mode of making cheese. To collect this superabundant fat the whey is set in shallow milk-pans, and an inferior kind of butter, called uheij butter, is made from the cream or fat skimmed off. If the cheese be coloured the substance used for colouring should be mixed with the milk at the time the rennet is put in. If herbs, as chopped sage, be added they are mixed at the same time. CHEESE: To Preserve. Cheese may be preserved for several years in a perfect state by the following process :—Select the cheeses free from cracks or bruises of any kind in the rind, and, after brushing them clean to remove the white mould that comes with them from the dairy, rub them over with a coating of melted fat inclosed in bladders, or pieces of parchment made pliable by soaking in water. Over this lay a coating of powdered quicklime, which will adhere to the wet covering, and after becoming dry prevent the intrusion of insects. This is an excellent plan to prepare cheeses for exportation to warm climates or for a sea voyage. CHEESE: To Select. To select good cheese is a department of marketing that re- quires great judgment. A nice palate and a sensitive nose are the two chief requisites ; but the eye is a necessary organ, not only for de- tecting what escapes the inquiry of the senses, as mites, decay, &c., but with good judges it will usually tell a prime cheese from an in- different one by the texture and colour alone. In choosing this necessary article attentiofi must be paid to the appearance of the rind. Cheshire cheese from a good dairy is in its prime at two years,- provided it has been well kept. A damp storehouse produces decay, and fills it with mites. Cheese, even of the finest quality, is apt to deceive those unacquainted with the article, both in taste and smell, when judging by the taster, or when first cut, as it will frequently possess a strong and unpleasant flavour, although, in a few days after being cut, exposure to the air will render it pure and agreeable to the smell and taste. It is hence the custom with expe- rienced caterers to lay iu a stock of Cheshire cheese, and to keep it in a dry cellar, in saw- dust, in a box, by which in two or three months it improves and is fit to cut. It is then well to divide it into half, or take a fourth, according to its size. Spread butter on the part to be reserved, and keep it iu a dry place; that for use should be exposed in the larder on the cheese shelf three or four days, then it will be ready for table. A certain worthy alder- man and vintner, famed for his knowledge of the larder, for many years was accustomed to put Cheshire cheeses in a sack, cover them with a basket, and bury them under his summer stock of coals, and in the winter, as they re- duced, he used to say, " Now is the time for ray old Cheshire." No cheese of equal flavour, per- haps, was eaten iu the city of Loudon. We speak of Cheshire, par excellence, as the most piquant and fine flavoured of English cheese, although the modern gormands are pleased to designate the Stilton cheese the British Parmesan. Good Stilton, howevei', is a treat for the most refined palate, and is generally preferred at the tables of the great, even by those whose au- thority few will be hardy enoagh to dispute. Stilton cheese made in May or June is usually served at table at Christmas. If made at a capital dairy, however, it is in better order at ten or even twelve months, or, if well managed, even at a later period. it is customary with certain tavern-keepers to produce an artificial ripeness of Stilton to please those pseudo-connoisseurs, their vain cus- tomers, who boast loudly of their superior taste in these matters when in the chair, and who verify the couplet of the inimitable poet:— " Doubtless the pleasure is as great In being cheated as to cheat." Mine host manages the matter thus:—A Stil ton with a rugged and picturesque coat is tapped, and in the aperture is inserted a small piece of mite-touched old Cheshire. In three weeks or a month it is ripe enough, and relished by the convives with its concomitant—a glass of port— as a honne-houche fit for the gods ! Certain epicures are accustomed to make a conical excavation on the top of a Stilton, and to pour therein from two to four glasses, or even more, of port, claret, or Madeira wine, which, being absorbed for thi-ee weeks or a month, they maintain, improves its flavour. There is no dis- puting with a variety of tastes. On some occa- sions an accidental flavour may be thus attained which may be palatable; but, on the authority of one of the best judges of these matters, we venture to say that many a prime Stilton hasCHE CHE [ 2C9 ] been spoiled by such whimsical practices ; and we are assured, as well by the dairyman and cheesemonger, as the first cooks, that the finest Stilton is that which ripens without any arti- ficial aid. North Wdtsliire cheeses have long acquired de- served celfclirity, being rich and of fine flavour. These are fit for the table at nine months old; but, if carefully kept, they are in perfection p.t twelve months. Double Gloucester is also a cheese in great repute, and if made at a good dairy is in prime order from nine to twelve months. This makes an excellent Welsh rarebit, and is capital for a stew if carefully kept in a cheese-toaster. Single Gloucester, which, when successfully made, is of a fine delicate flavour, is generally used at the taverns for a Welsh rarebit. It is fit for table in five or six months. Derby cheese, however, when from the best dairies, being of a delicate flavour and agreeable texture, is pre- ferred to all others by the cognoscenti for toasting. A Welsh rarebit, capitally cooked, of Derbyshire cheese is served with eclat at the best appointed tables. Cheddar cheese is also in high esteem et the best tables. It is in its prime from nine to twelve months. Dunlop cheese, made in the parish of Dunlop, in Ayrshire, is in high esteem at the first Scot- tish tables, and is considered a handsome present to an English family ; and due honours are paid to the Ayrshire dairies as often as it is set upon the English board. Of crea^n cheeses there are various sorts, for which the English dairies are famed. Amongst others the Cottenham, when in its prime, is of delicious flavour. The Bath cream cheese is also delectable, and others which are eaten equally new, particularly those from a certain town in Bedfordshire, the name of which we do not recollect. These, and many more of excel- lent quality, are thin in form. The Stilton is also a cream cheese, though among the thickest that come from an English dairy. Of foreign cheese the Parmesan, which, being first made at Parma, in Italy, hence derives its name, still maintains pre-eminence over all others. The manufacture of this cheese was formerly con- fined to the dairies of Parma and Piacenza, and where, for a long period, the best was made. Of late, however, the district of Lodi is most celebrated for this cheese. The Gruyere, from Switzerland and Rochefort, made of ewes' milk, and the Neufchdtel, from France, are cheeses served as delicacies upon an English table; but the true English Cheshire is held superior to all these, even by the learned gastronomists of Paris. " In having the care of the cheese for the parlour, or for the family in general," says an anonymous writer, "let a broad hanging shelf be hung, either in the wine or strong beer cellar, as neither rats nor mice can get at the cheese." If you keep cream cheeses put them between two plates or dishes to ripen, with some fresh leaves from the garden, and turn them every morning; and for all other cheeses have a rack or two made in the cellar, for it will be a means of improving them daily. A large space in the rack should be left for Cheshire, brickbat, dolphin cheeses, &c.; and nothing more improves them, or makes them go farther than putting three or four on each pipe or cask of wine, and brushing and turning them every week; but if there are no casks of wine put them on the tops of the strong beer casks. Cheese even of an inferior quality', if thus managed, will become much richer, fine, and mellow. It must be turned alternately. The cheese should not be brought from the rack to the parlour but at the moment it is wanted, and should be returned to the rack as soon as taken from the table. Be careful to use those that are ripe and mellow first. Cheeses of all sorts ai-e known to be the best which have smooth, thin coats, and those chosen which are the heaviest; for although they may be of the same size, yet they differ materially at that point, as all fat, good cheese is the heaviest. The round Dutch cheese, of the best quality, and not too salt (which is a common failing with them) is not unfrequently used for toasting, and with success. This, and other cheeses made of skim milk, are considered best for that purpose, and eat richer and more agreeably to the palate than even the best North Wiltshire, indubitably one of the richest of English cheeses. The fatty richness of this material constitutes not the desired properties for toasting, as the inferior cheeses are, when toasted, found to be richer, softer in consistence, less ropy, and superior in flavour than even Stilton. Cheeses that become tainted with mites are recommended by a Derby- shire lady well acquainted with the operations of tbe dairy to be wiped, and put into a pot in which mutton has been cooked, whilst the water is yet hot, and made to boil a few seconds; then to be taken out, immediately wiped, dried, and put away in a dry place. CHEESE, BRAISED. Put some wine, either white or red, into a chafing-dish, mix it with a little mustai'd and Cayenne, set it over a lamp or a hot table, and slice in some very rich cheese, or if the cheese is not very rich put in a little butter; stir it as it melts to incorporate it. Have ready nice soft fried toast in a hot- water plate, and spread the cheese upon it, or dress it at table. CHEESE, BRICKBAT. Take 2 gallons of new milk. I quart of good cream, and 2CHE CHE [ 270 ] spoonsful of rennet. When the curd is formed break it a little, put it into a wooden bowl tho shape of a brick, press it a little, and so dry it. In six months it is ready for use. To be made in September ; if sooner it will not keep. CHEESE, CHEDDAR. There have been, and there are still, many imitations of Cheddar cheese, but the only genuine cheeses which bear this cognomen are made by the following process at Cheddar, near Wells, in Somerset- shire. When we say at Cheddar we mean on the farms contiguous to this little town, whence the cheese derives its name. The rennet is also added to the milk in the same way as in Cheshire; but there is no colouring matter used, the Cheddar owing its deviation from the white to no other aid than its own richness. The evening's milk being skimmed in the morning, the cream which it yields is mixed with the morning's milkings, both raised to a temperature of from 80° to 90° of Fahrenheit, according to the season. The rennet is then put in, and the cheese tub covered and placed in a tolerably warm situation. When the coagulation is complete the curd is broken with a dish or a bowl, and as much whey taken from it as can be baled out. The whey is strained through a sieve, and the bits of curd that remain in the sieve returned to the cheese tub. The curd is now submitted to pressure in the tub, much in the same manner that Cheshire cheese is pressed at first. When it has undergone several pressings and turnings in the vat, and sundry perforations to drain it of every drop of whey, the curd is broken and fully salted, and again pressed and again broken. From 3 lbs. to 5 lbs. of fresh butter, according to the size of the cheese, are now worked into the curd, which is immediately put into a clean vat with a cheese cloth round it, having the end drawn over the upper surface and tucked in at the side of the vat. It is next taken to the great press, whei'e it is turned very often in the space of an hour and a half that it remains there, the cloth being changed each time that the cheese is turned. Being now transferred to a finer cloth, it is covered with a couple more cloths, so that there may be three or four folds round it, and again put into the press, where it remains forty eight hours. No further pressure is now applied; but the cheese is taken from the press, washed in whey, and put into cloths to dry. When it becomes quite dry it is laid on a shelf in the cheese room, and turned every day until it begins to ripen, when it is fit for the salesman. CHEESE, CHESHIRE. In the cheese- making districts of Cheshire the milk is set together very warm, when the curd will be firm. It is then cut crosswise with a knife, in lines about an inch apart, about the depth of the knife-blade, so as to allow the whey to rise between the lines. The curd is then broken uniformly small with a skimming-dish, and left with a cloth over it an hour to settle. Next cut the ' curd into pieces of about an inch square, put it into a cloth, and then into a large wooden drainer, with a cover fitting inside it. Set it before a good fire, and first put oa the cover about half a hundredweight, so as to press the curd moderately. In twenty minutes take out the curd, cut it still smaller, and press it as before, and twenty minutes after cut and press it again. Then put the curd into a tub or pan, cut it as small as birds' meat, and salt it; next put it in a cloth of thin gauze into a chessel or hoop, set it before a fire twelve or fifteen hours, and then put it into the press, taking it out from time to time, and giving dry cloths, till, by the pressing, the cloths come off quite dry. If the last cloth be of a finer texture, dipped in warm water and wrung out, it will give the cheese a finer skin or rind. Having taken the cheese out of the press, lay it on a dry shelf; at first turn and rub it daily with a dry cloth, and, as the cheese becomes firm, turning and wiping t\Yice a week will hs sufficient. The following are good propor- tions :— 6 drachms of aunotto to a cheese of SOIbs. to 22 lbs., and 8 ozs. or 9ozs. of salt. Seventy quarts of milk will make a cheese of the above weight, or about 3 quarts for each pound of cheese. CHEESE, CRAB. Cut some thin slices of any rich cheese, as Cheshire, double Gloucester, &c., and press them well with a knife until you can spread the cheese like butter; then mix up with it mustard, common and chilli vinegar, Cayenne pepper, salt, essence of anchovies, and any other fish sauce you think proper. Mix all together thoroughly to a thick pulp. CHEESE, CREAM. To every quart of new milk add a gill of cream; make the mixture moderately warm, and put to it just rennet enough to turn it. When the curd comes lay a cloth in the vat or mould, for which the bottom of a sieve may be used, but it should be of the exact size of the intended cheese. Then letting out the curd with a skimming-dish fib up the mould, turn the cloth over it, and set il to drain as the curd settles. Keep filling ii more with a gentle pressure till the whey k wholly extracted, and there is sufficient sub- stance left for the cheese; then turn it out into a dry cloth, and press it with a moderate weight, not exceeding two pounds. At night turn it into a clean cloth, and next morning slightly sprinkle it with salt, after which, if it is diy enough, lay it on a bed of fresh nettle, straw.[ 271 ] CHE CHE berry or ash leaves, and cover it with more of the same. Shift and turn it twice a day, re- newing the leaves for a fortnight, when it will be fit to eat. If wanted sooner it may be kept in a warm place between two pewter dishes, covered with leaves as before. CHEESE, CREAM (Ickd). Boil 1 pint of good cream, then put ^ lb. of sugar to it, about a dozen of sweet almonds pounded, a little preserved orange flowers or orange-flower water, and rasped lemon-peel; boil together a few minutes. When you take it off the fire add 5 yolks of eggs beaten up, and stir it continually till they are well mixed with the cream ; strain it in a sieve, and put it into the icing-pot. When it is pretty much iced work it well to put it into cheese moulds ; ice it again, and serve as usual. It is also done with coffee and choco- late in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened with 4 or 5 yolks of eggs, as directed in the first, and moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. CHEESE, CREAM (Iced a la Botje- geoise). Boil 1 pint of very good thick cream with I" pint of milk, the yolk of a,n egg, and f lb. of sugar. When it has boiled up five or six times take it off the fire, and flavour it with any aromatic, either orange flower, bergamot, or lemon. Pour the jDreparation into tin moulds to ice; put these moulds into little pails, having first put at the bottom of your J ails some ice well pounded, with some salt or saltpetre, and place ice and saltpetre all round the moulds till it reaches the top of the moulds. When the cheese is iced and you are ready to serve it, dip your moulds in warm water, to loosen your cheese from the moulds, and then turn your cheeses into a dish. They fchould be eaten the moment they are served. CHEESE, CREAM (Whipped). Chop very fine a piece of green lemon-peel, and put it into an earthen pan with 1 J- pint of good thick cream and a piece of gum dragon about the size of a pea powdered. Whip your cream, and as the whip rises take it off with the skimmer, and put it in an osier basket. If the basket is not very close you must put a piece of muslin m it. When the cream is all whipped, and it is suf- ficiently drained, serve it on a dish with powdered sugar over it. CHEESE, CREAM, AND MARMALADE. Boil 1 pint of cream, mix with it a few spoons- ful of any kind of marmalade you please, and a little dried, preserved lemon-peel chopped fine. When it is but just milkwarm put some rennet to it, and serve it with pounded sugar over it. CHEESE, CREAM, A LA PRINCESSE. Boil 1 pint of cream with 1 pint of milk, k grains of salt, a little grated lemon-peel, a little coriander, a little cinnamon, and 3 ozs. of sugar. Let the whole boil until reduced to half; then take it oif the fire, and when it is lukewarm throw into it a piece of rennet a little larger than a pea, mixed with a spoonful of water; pass the cream through a sieve, and then put it over some warm ashes. When the curd is produced, put it into a little osier basket to drain, and when it has taken the form of a cheese turn it into a dish. CHEESE, CURD (Florentine). Break to pieces 2 lbs. of cheese curd, take 1 lb. of blanched almonds finely pounded, with a little rose water, J lb. of currants, clean washed and picked, some stewed spinach cut small. Sweeten it with some sugar. Mix it all well together. Lay a puff-paste in the dish, put in the ingre- dients, cover it with a thin crust rolled and laid across. Bake it in a moderate oven; it takes an hour. The top crust may be cut any shape. CHEESE, CURD, PUDDING. Take the curd from a gallon of milk turned with rennet; drain off the milk completely, and beat it in a mortar, with ^Ib. of fresh butter. Strain to this the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 3 eggs, well beaten; add 2 Naples biscuits, or half a small roll grated, and sweeten the whole. Put it into a buttered tin, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done turn it into a dish, and garnish with citron, candied orange-peel, and blanched almonds cut in slips. Sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve it with melted butter and a little sack. CHEESE, EGG. Boil 3 quarts of new milk with 1 pint of cream, loaf sugar, cinna- mon, mace, and lemon-peel. When it tastes well of the seasoning strain it through a sieve, and beat 8 eggs with the juice of 3 lemons and 1 orange; put them in the milk pretty hot; stir it on the fire till it becomes curds; cool it, and pour it in a thin cloth laid on a sieve to drain; then press the curd into a mould for the purpose with holes in. Let it drain two hours, then turn it on a dish, and pour a cream on it. CHEESE ENTREES. Parmesan cheese should be made use of for entrees, and it should be grated, and the meat or fish with which it is served should be dressed d la braise or en ragout. Very little salt must be used in the sauce or meat, as Parmesan is in itself very salt. Put into the bottom of the dish in which you are going to serve your meat some of the sauce you intend to use with your meat, then strew with grated cheese. Place your meat upon this, pour over the remainder of your sauce, and cover the whole with Parmesan. Then put it in an oven, or under a baking-pan to brown, and serve it with thick sauce. CHEESE, FONDUE OF. Make a sort of pap with I pint of cream, or good milk and potato-flour; add a little salt. When the papCHE [ 272 J CHE is boiled enougli put to it 4 yolks of eggs, i lb. of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cbeese; and lastly, 4 wbites of eggs whipped to a snow. Stir the whole well together. Next pour the pap into a mould, and place it over a mould covered with a lid, and fire on top. It will be done enough in ten minutes, when it should be thickly served and eaten. CHEESE, FRESH. Take 2 quarts of raw cream, and sweeten it with sugar. Boil it, then put in some damask rose water; keep it stirring that it may not burn. When it is thickened and turned take it off the fire; wash the strainer and cheese vat with rose water; roll your curd back- wards and forwards in the strainer to drain the whey from it; then put the curd, with a spoon, into the vat. As soon as it is cold slip it into the cheese dish with some of the whey, and serve it up. CHEESE, FRIED. Cut it in slices, with double the quantity of sliced apples the same size; powder them with sugar; dip the cheese in a mixture of egg, butter, salt, and mustard ; put a slice between two slices of apples, dip them into egg, fry, and serve very hot. Cheese is excellent in plum batter. It is generally served in Cheshire with plum-pie or tarts. CHEESE FRITTERS. Put some milk, butter, and mild cheese into a saucepan. Add to these ingredients flour, and afterwards eggs and sugar. Make all into a paste, of which form your fritters. Fry them of a nice colour, and serve them sprinkled with sugar. A small quantity of orange flowers may be added. CHEESE, ICED (as Butter). Boil for a few minutes 1 pint of cream with some rasped lemon-peel and 1 good spoonful of orange-flower water. When taken off the fire add 12 yolks of eggs well beat up, and mix together without boil- ing. Sift through a sieve, and put into an icing- pot to freeze, working it the same as ices. It must be iced in such a manner that you may take it with a spoon to serve, like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clear ice between to look like crystals. CHEESE, ICED, A LACHANTILLY. It is prepared the same as Cream Cheese, Iced, and put to ice in moulds. Beat up 1 pint of cream to a froth, add rasped lemon-peel, 1 lb. of pounded sugar, and 1 spoonful of orange-flower water. Serve the froth upon the cheese, raised as high as possible. You may, if you choose, ice the fi-oth a little. - CHEESE, ICED, AND MARMALADE. They are made in the same manner as Cream Cheese, Iced, when the cream and eggs are well mixed, and a sufficient quantity of what marma- lade you please, to give it the proper taste of the fruit desired. CHEESE, ITALIAN. Take 1 pint of cream and 1 tea-cupful of sherbet. Sweeten it to the taste; whisk it up, and put it into a hair sieve, with a piece of muslin over, to drain till next day. Turn it out into a dish; strew it over with candied lemon shred fine, or almonds blanched and split. CHEESE, LEMON. Take 1 quart of cream and i pint of sherbet; grate into it the rinds of 2 lemons; add the juice of 3 lemons strained, and sugar to the taste. Whisk it twenty minutes, then lay a thin cloth in a sieve, and pour it in. The next day turn it carefully out of the cloth, and garnish with candied or preserved orange sliced thin, or nonpariel comfits. The above quantity makes a large dish. CHEESE, MARIGOLD. Pick the freshest and best coloured petals of marigold flowers, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice. Put this into milk at the same time with the rennet. The milk being set and the curd produced break it as gently and equally as you possibly can; put it into the cheese vat, and press it with a gentle weight, there being such a number of holes at the bottom of the vat as will let the whey easily out, or else let there be a spout to carry off the whey, though the holes will be the best. They must be finished the same as all other cheeses. CHEESE, MITES IN (To Destroy). Pour on each side of the cheese ravaged by these insects a sufficiently soaking coat of melted mutton suet boiling hot, an application that not only arrests any further destruction from that source, but also prevents the too rapid decaying action of the air. We have seen a cheese on which this experiment was tried on one side only; the coated side was still in a state of perfect preservation, while the unprotected side was perforated and scooped out nearly to the middle of the cheese by the unchecked activity of the mites. CHEESE, MONTMORENCY CREAM. Boil 1 pint of cream with 2 ozs. of sugar; when it boils take it off the fire and let it cool; when cool put in ^ tea-spoonful of orange-flower water. Whip the cream, and as the cream thickens take it off with a skimmer, and put it on a basket with a fine cloth laid over it. Continue to whip until there is no longer any cream remain- ing. Let it drain, and serve it on a plate. CHEESE EN NEIGE. Put into an earthen pan 1| pint of very thick cream, a piece of gum tragacanth about the size of a large pea, in powder, and a little fresh lemon-peel grated. Whip the cream well, and as the froth thickens take it off with a skimmer, and put it into a small osier cheese basket. If the basket is not closely made, put in the bottom of it a little piece of muslin or fine linen. When the cream is all whipped and skimmed let the cheese drain.CHE [ 273 j CHE turn it over into a deep dish for table, sugar it, and serve. CHEESE, PARMESAN. Parmesan cheese is made of two meals of skimmed—the evening's meal having stood about eighteen hours, and the morning's about six hours. The mixed milk is heated in a copper boiled to 82° Fahr. ; a lump of rennet, the size of a walnut, for 66 gallons, is tied up in a cloth, and worked through it into the warm milk, which is then turned from the lire, and left for an hour to coagulate; after which the curd is stirred up for atiother hour, broken much smaller by a stick stuck all with wires, and left to settle. Part of the whey is taken out, the boilei' turned again over the fire, i oz. of saffron is added to colour it, the milk made nearly to boil, keeping it well stirred, and occasionally examining some of the curd between the finger and thumb. When the curd feels sufficiently firm the boiler is removed from the fire, three-fourths of the whey ladled out, and 3 or 4 gallons of water dashed against the boiler to cool it. A cloth is slid under the curd, and it is placed in a tub to drain ; it is then put into a hoop, and pressed with a half hundred weight for an hour. The cloth is then taken away, and the cheese placed again in the hoop for two days; after which the two cheeses are placed on one another, changing them every other day for a month in summer, and six weeks in winter, during which period they are sprinkled over with salt at each lime of turning them. The cheeses are then scraped clean, turned every day, and rubbed iioquently with linseed oil to keep off insects. They are never sold until six months old. After the curd of Parmesan cheese is removed irom the boiler all the whey is added to the buttermilk of the morning's meal, which has been churned in the meanwhile, an acid added to coagulate it, and thus a cheese called mas- chopino is made. The fatness of cheese can- not be ascertained by its appearance, but by toasting it, as some cheeses, apparently fat, dry up by heat; while other dry and hard cheese, when toasted, becomes fat. A cow ought to produce her own weight and value in cheese by the year: 4-50 gallons of cows' milk ought to produce 430 lbs. of cheese. CHEESE, PARMESAN FONDUE. Put 1 lb. of butter and ^ lb. of potato flour; stir them well together, add to them 5 or 6 glasses of good cream nearly boiling, 1 lb. of Parmesan grated; ^ lb. of Gruyere cheese grated, a small spoonful of mignonette, and a spoonful of powder sugar. Set it over a moderate fire, stir- ring it constantly ; add the yolks of 15 eggs and a large plateful of whipped cream well drained, then the whites whipped firmly. Pour this preparation into small paper cases as quickly as possible, aud bake them fifteen or twejity minutes. CHEESE, PARMESAN (Ice Cream) Take 6 eggs, ^ pint of syrup, and 1 pint of cream ; put them into a stewpan and boil them until they begin to thicken ; then rasp 3 ozs. of Parmesan cheese. Mix the whole well together, and pass it through a sieve; then freeze it according to custom. CHEESE PASTE. Make a paste with a cream cheese and flour, a little butter, 3 or 4 eggs, both yolks and whites, and some good cream. You must judge of the quantity of flour according to the quality of the cheese and the consistence you would have the paste. CHEESE PATTTES. Beat up some yolks of eggs, mustard, cheese, wine, or cream and butter; fill some baked patties, and put them in the oven. Serve them very hot after the company is seated. Ramakin paste may be served in patties. CHEESE. PLOMBIERE. Take ilb. of sweet and 4 bitter almonds ; beat them to a fine paste, which put into 1 pint of boiling cream, having previously infused in it 2 pinches of crisped orange flowers. Pour this cream on 9 yolks of eggs and J lb of powder sugar. Place it over a gentle fire, stirring it constantly until it begins to thicken, and taking great care not to let it boil. Pass it through a bolter, and when cold put it in a sabotiere and ice it. When about half set add a small Chantilly cheese, then finish icing, and when wanted for table lay about a dozen orange or ivy leaves on a dish. Lay the cheese on them like a rock, drop apricot mar- malade over it here and there, and serve it. CHEESE OF POTATOES. Cheese of fine quality is manufactured from potatoes in Saxony. After having collected a quantity of potatoes of good quality, giving the preference to the large white kind, they are boiled in a cauldron, and after becoming cool they are peeled and reduced to a pulp, either by means of a grater or a mortar. To 5 lbs. of this pulp, which ought to be as equal as possible, are added 1 lb. of sour milk and the necessary quantity of salt. The whole is kneaded to- gether, and the mixture covered up, and allowed to lie for three or four days, according to the season. At the end of this time it is kneaded anew, and the cheeses are placed in little baskets, where the superfluous moisture is allowed to escape. They are then allowed to dry in the shade, and placed in layers in large pots or vessels, where they must remain fifteen days. The older these cheeses are the more their quality improves. Three kinds of them are made. The first, which is the most common, is made, according to the proportions above indicated; the second with 4 parts potatoes and[ 274 ] CHE CHE 2 parts curdled milk ; the third with 2 parts of potatoes aud 4 parts of cow or ewe milk. These cheeses have this advantage over every other kind, that they do not engender mites, and keep fresh for a great number of years, provided they are placed in a dry situation, and in well-closed vessels. CHEESE, POTTED. Add to lib. of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese 3 ozs. of cold fresh butter, a little sifted mace, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. Mix all well in a marble mortar, put it into small pots, cover it -with clarified butter, and set the pots in a cold, dry place. CHEESE, POUNDED. Cut 1 lb. of good mellow Cheddar, Cheshire, or North Wiltshire cheese into thin bits ; add to it 2 ozs., and if the cheese is dry 3 ozs., of fresh butter ; pound and rub them well together in a mortar till it is quite smooth. CHEESE PUFFS. Beat in a mortar a pint of cheese curd (strained from the whey) very fine, with 1^ spoonful of flour, 3 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet. Lay a little of this paste in veiy small round cakes on a tin plate. If the oven is hot a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to bake them. Serve them with pudding sauce. CHEESE, RAMAKIN. Take an equal quantity of Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, heat it fine with some fresh butter, 2 ozs. to 1 lb. of cheese ; then add the crumb of white bread soaked in cream, 3 well-beaten yolks of eggs, and 1 white. Stir all together, and bake it in the dish you intend to serve it in a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. CHEESE, ROASTED. Grate 3 ozs. of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 ozs. of bread grated, and 3 ozs. of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar with a dessert- spoonful of mustard, a little salt, and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces ; lay the paste thickly upon them, put them into a Dutch oven covered with a dish till hot through. Remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. CHEESE, SAGE. Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice. Mix it with rennet in the mill, more or less, according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer till it is pressed t\To inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours, salt it, and turn it every day. CHEESE, SAGE (with Figures). Provide 2 cheese vats of the same size, and set the milk to turn in 2 vessels; one part with rennet alone, and the other part with rennet and sage juice. These must be made as you would make two dis- tinct cheeses, and put into the presses at the same time. When both these cheeses have stood in the presses for half an hour take them out, and cut some square pieces or long slips out of the plain cheese, and lay them bj"^ on a plate; then cut the same number of pieces out of the sage cheese, of the same figure and size, and im- mediately put the pieces of the sage cheese into the places you cut in the plain cheese, and the pieces that you took out of the plain cheese into the places you cut in the sage cheese. The pieces should be cut out by a tin plate made into figures of sevei'al shapes, by which the pieces can be cut out so exactly that they will fit without any trouble. When you have done this put the cheeses in the press again, and finish like other cheeses. The greatest cai'e must be taken that the curd is very equally broken, and that both cheeses are pressed as equally as possible before the figures are cut out, or else, when they come to be pressed for the last time, the figures will press unequally and lose their shapes. The cheeses should be made about two inches thick ; if they are thicker it will be more difficult to make the figures regularly. After they are made they must be frequently shifted and turned on the shelf, and often rubbed with a coarse cloth. They will be fit to cut in about eight months. CHEESE SANDWICH. Take two-thirds of grated Cheshire cheese and one of butter, a little cream, and a small proportion of made mustard; pound them in a mortar; cover small slices of bread with this, and lay a slice of bread over each ; press them gently together, and cut them in small pieces. A little Cayenne pepper may be added. CHEESE, SNOW To 1 pint of cream put the juice of 3 lemons and the rinds of 2 grated, 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water, and sugar to the taste. Whisk it about a quarter of an hour until it thickens ; then put it into muslin in a small sieve. Let it stand until the next day, then turn it out on a glass or china dish. CHEESE SOUFFLE. Take 3 ozs. of flour and 2 ozs. of butter, put them in a stew- pan with 1 egg ; mix them together with 1 pint of milk, and set it on the fire till it begins to boil; if too thick add a little more milk ; then break in the yolks of 5 eggs, aud 1 gill of thick cream. When these are well mixed stir in gently about 2 ozs .of grated Parmesan cheese aud a very little pepper and salt. Beat the whites of the eggs, with the addition of three, and finish as for Souffle. When this light batter is put in paper cases it is called fondue au frontage. CHEESE SOUP. Take a soup dish that will bear the fire, aud spread over the bottom of it Gruyere cheese cut small, with pieces of fresh butter strewed about it. Cover this with thin[ 275 ] CHE CHE slices of bread, and lay cheese, butter, and bread alternately until you have enough, taking care to finish with the cheese and butter; moisten these with layers of stock, and let them simmer until it is burnt to the bottom, and the liquor is evaporated. When about to send it to table add more stock, with a little pepper, and let the pottage be rather thick than otherwise. CHEESE SOUP (Maigre). If you wish to make it en maigre prepare some soup maigre, taking care that there is a larger proportion of cabbage in your soup than of any other vege- table. When it is made and strained through a sieve season it with a little salt. Take the dish in which you mean to serve it, and place it be- fore the fire; then take ^Ib. or fib. (according to the quantity of soup you intend making) of Gruyere cheese, grate one half of it, and cut the other half into small slices ; put a little grated cheese with some small pieces of butter in the bottom of your dish, cover it with some small slices of bread ; then put a layer of sliced cheese, then a layer of sliced bread covered with grated cheese; then bread and small pieces of butter, and so continue till your dish is filled. Moisten the whole with some of your soup, then let it soak over a chafing-dish until all the soup is absorbed; then dilute it with the rest of your soup, and season with pepper. This cheese soup should be served rather thick. CHEESE, STEWED. Cut small into a stewpan Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, \ lb. of each; then add 1 gill of Lisbon wine, 1 table- spoonful of water, and, if approved, 1 tea spoon- ful of mustard. Mix them over a fire till the cheese is dissolved; then have ready a cheese plate, with a lighted lamp beneath; put the mix- ture in, and serve up directly. Send it with some fresh-toasted bread in a toast-rack. CHEESE STEWED IN CREAM (Scotch). Put some cream, mace, salt, and a piece of nice fresh butter into a silver chafing-dish. Grate or slice the cheese very thin into it. Set it on a hot table or lamp ; the heat ought to be very moderate. Stir it constantly till it is well in- corporated, and serve it over a lamp. If made tViin with the cream, prepared macaroni may be added, which makes an elegant top dish for a family dinner, second course, or for a side centre at a dressed dinner. CHEESE, STILTON. The best season for making this rich cheese is from July to October. Add the cream of the preceding evening to the morning's milking, and mix them well together, great attention being paid to the even tempera- ture of both, as the quality of the cheese rests much upon this part of the process. To make it in perfection as much depends on the manage- ment of the cheese after it is made as upon the richness of the milk. The rennet should be very pure and sweet. When the milk is coagulated do not break the curd, as in making other cheese, but take it out whole, drain it on a sieve, and press it very moderately. Then put the curd into a shape of the form of a cylinder (ten and a half inches deep, and eight inches over), and turn it four or five times a day into clean cloths. When it is sufficiently firm bind a cloth or tape round it to prevent its breaking, and set it on a shelf. It should be occasionally powdered with flour, and plunged into hot water. This hardens the outer coat, and assists the fermentation or ripening. CHEESE AND TOAST. Cut a slice of bread about half an inch thick. Pare off the crust, and toast it very slightly on one side so as just to brown it, without making it hard or burning it. Cut a slice of cheese (good, fat, mellow Cheshire cheese or double Gloucester is better than poor, thin, single Gloucester), a quarter of an inch thick, not so big as the bread by half an inch on each side; pare off the rind, cut out all the specks and rotten parts, and lay it on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster. Care- fully watch it that it does not burn, and stir it with a spoon to prevent a pellicle forming on the surface. Have ready good mustard, pepper, and salt. CHEESE, TOASTED, or English Rarebit. Cut a slice of bread, toast it, soak it in red wine, and put it before the fire. Cut some cheese in very thin slices, and rub some butter over the bottom of a plate. Lay the cheese upon it, and pour in two or three spoonsful of white wine and a little mustard; cover it with another plate, and set it on a chafing-dish of coals two or three minutes, then stir it till it is well mixed. When it is mixed enough lay it upon the bread, and brown it with a salamander. CHEESE, TOASTED, or Scotch Rarebit. Cut the bread very nicely, crust and brown, but do not harden it; cut the cheese rather more than half the thickness of the bread. Put it into the cheese-toaster, rubbed with butter, with boiling water under. Stir the cheese to prevent its burning. There are silver and white cheese- toasters, filled with small pans for dividing the cheese. CHEESE, TOASTED, or Welsh Rarebit. Take a slice of bread and toast it on both sides ; toast a slice of cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and with a hot salamander brown it, and rub some mustard over it. CHEESE, TOASTED (with Onions). Peel some onions, cut them in two, and boil them a little, changing the water once; then chop them and put them in the oven, with a little pepper, salt, and butter; cover them, and let them stew till tender. When sufficiently done spread them on a dish, and cover them well[ 276 ] CHE CHE with good toasting cheese, cut in thin shces without the crust. Toast it rather quickly, and serve it un hot. CHEESE, WELSH, or Gallimaufry. Mix in a mortar any kind of cheese with butter, mustard, and wine, or make it without butter if it is objected to, and with any flavoured vinegar. This makes excellent zests or sandwiches. CHEESECAKES. Cheesecakes should be put into the oven immediately they are made, otherwise they will become oily and look dis- agreeable. The oven should be of a moderate heat; for if too hot it will burn the cakes, if too slack they will be heavy. CHEESECAKES (1). Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk. When turned drain the curd through a coarse sieve, gently break the curd, and rub in ^\h. of butter, Jib. of sugar, nutmeg, and 2 Naples biscuits grated, the yolks of 4 eggs and the white of 1 egg, ^oz. of almonds, | lb. butter, and I lb. suet, well beaten in a mortar, with 2 spoonsful of rose water, and 4ozs. of currants. Put in the curd, and mix all together. CHEESECAKES (2). Put some curd from the dairy into a mortar, with a bit of fresh butter, a little salt, the yolks of 3 eggs, and the white of 1 egg; rasp the peel of a lemon over some sugar, and put this also into a mortar; add 4 macaroons and a bit of sugar. Pound the whole together, and when very fine take it out of the mortar. Butter any quantity of tartlet moulds, according to your company; spread some puff-paste over the dresser, cut with a round cutter as many pieces as you have moulds, and put a spoonful of the preparation to each ; bake next in a pretty hot oven, and serve up hot with powder sugar. Sometimes you may glaze them with a salamander. CHEESECAKES, COMMON. Beat 8 eggs well while a quart of milk is on the fire, and when it boils put in the eggs and stir them till they come to a curd; then pour it out, and when it is cold put in a little salt, 2 spoonsful of rose water, and fib. of currants, well washed; put it into puff-paste and bake it. If you use tin patty pans to bake in, butter them, or you will not be able to take them out; but if you bake them in glass or china only an upper crust will be necessary, as you will not want to take them out when you send them to table. CHEESECAKES, COURT. Boil a bit of butter in a little water and a little salt; thicken it with as much flour as it will take, stirring it on the fire constantly until it becomes quite a paste; then mix some eggs with it one by one, to make it almost as liquid as a thick batter, and mix some good cream cheese with it. Bake it in good puff-paste, coloured with yolks of eggs, and serve it up either hot or cold. CHEESECAKES, CURD. Beat i pint of good curd with 4 eggs, 4 spoonsful of cream, some nutmeg, a little brandy, and i lb. of cur- rants. Sugar to the taste. CHEESECAKES, ST. DENIS. Mix a spoonful of flour with a fresh cream cheese, well drained, commonly called curds, a little salt, a proper quantity of eggs, and finish the same as for Court Cheesecakes. CHEESECAKES, FINE. Warm 1 pint of cream, add to it 5 quarts of milk warm from the cow, with some rennet; give it a stir about, and when the curd is come put it into a linen bag or cloth. Drain it well away from the whey, but do not squeeze it too much; put it into a mortar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Add to the curd ^Ib. of sweet almonds, blanched and beaten extremely fine, and -^^Ib. of maca- roons, or Naples biscuits beaten very fine; then put the yolks of 9 eggs beaten, a nutmeg grated, two perfumed plums dissolved in rose or orange-flower water, and |lb. of fine sugar. Mix all well together. Melt IJlb. of butter, and stir it well in; wet 1 lb. of fine flour with cold water, roll it out, put into it by degrees 1 lb. of fresh butter, and shake a little flour on each coat as it is rolled. The perfumed plums may be omitted or not, according to your taste. CHEESECAKES, FRENCH. Take some of the petits choux paste, made with water, mix with it some cream cheese that has been curdled cold, and then proceed in the usual way. CHEESECAKES, HARRISON. For the paste use 1 quart of fine flour, or more, 1 lb. of butter rubbed into the flour, with J lb. of sugar beaten fine, and 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water; make it into a paste, and lay it in the patty-pans for the curd. Take the yolks of 12 eggs, and beat them in 1 pint of very thick cream. When the cream boils up put in the eggs ; take it off, and put it in a cloth over a cullender; whey some new milk with rennet for the other curd. When you temper them together take lib. of currants, fib. of butter, i lb. of sugar, J oz. of nutmegs, 4 spoonsful of rose water, and bake them quick. CHEESECAKES, RICH PASTE FOR. Dry 1 lb. of the finest flour, mix with it 3 ozs. of refined sugar; then wash ^ lb. of butter with your hand till it comes to a froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work with it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of 3 eggs and the whites of 2 eggs. If too limber put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty- pans, and fill; a little more than fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out have ready some refined sugar; beat up the white of an egg as thickly as you can, ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a veryCHE [ 277 ] CHE fine, flaky crust; but if for mince pies, or any Bweet things, it should be washed. CHELSEA PENSIONER. A remedy for the rheumatism is well known under this name. It is said to be the prescription of a Chelsea pensioner by which the late Lord Amherst was cured. The following are its component parts :— Take gum guaiacum, 1 drachm ; powdered rhu- barb, 2 drachms ; cream of tartar, 1 oz.; flour of sulphur, 2 ozs.; 2 nutmegs finely powdered. 'To be made into an electuary with 1 lb. of clarified honey. Two large ppoonsful to be taken night and morning. CHELTENHAM SALTS. A factitious compound has been long vended as a popular purgative under this name. It is formed by triturating together the following salts :—Sul- phate of soda, 120 grains ; sulphate of magnesia, 66 grains; muriate of soda, 10 grains ; sulphate of iron, i grain. As a purgative it is very effi- cacious, and superior, probably, to that which is actually obtained by the evaporation of the Cheltenham water itself; for, notwithstanding the high pretensions with which this latter salt has been publicly announced, it will be found to be little else than common Glaubers salt. This fact has been confirmed by the experiments of Mr. Richard Phillips, who observes that the " real (Cheltenham salts contain no chalybeate property, but are merely sulphate of soda, mixed with a minute quantity of soda, and a very small portion of common salt." It could not be imagined that the salt should contain oxide of iron, even in a state of mi.-sLure, much less in combination, for carbonate of iron is readily decomposed by ebullition, and the oxide of iron is precipitated before the salt can be crystallised. A preparation, under the name of Thomson's Cheltenham salts, is accordingly manufactured in London by evaporating a solution consisting of sulphate of soda and subcarbonate of soda. Efflorescence of real Cheltenham salts. The preceding salt deprived of its water of crystal- lisation. Efflorescence of real magnesia Cheltenham salts, made from the waters of the chalybeate magnesia spa. This is asserted to be a subsulphate from nature, which combines both a pure and a sub- sulphated magnesia in its composition; " but," says Mr. Phillips, " neither nature nor art has ever produced such a combination. In truth it consists of Epsom salt, with small portions of magnesia, and muriate of magnesia or muriate of soda." Murio sulphate of magnesia and iron. The preparation thus named by M.r. Thomson was found by Mr. Phillips to consist of Epsom salt, deprived of part of its water of crystallisation, and discoloured by a little rust of iron, and con- taining a small portion of muriate of magnesia. CHELTENHAM WATER. The chalybeate saline spring, to which the town of Cheltenham in Gloucestershire owes its celebrity, is called the original or Old Spa, from its being the first well there discovered about a century ago. Its temperature in the morning is generally above 53° or 54°, and at noon, in the hottest season, 6° or 7* higher. When freshly drawn its water appears tolerably clear, but not per- fectly transparent. To the taste it is saline, bitter, and chalybeate, but not brisk nor pun- gent. Its solid contents in a wine gallon are the following:— Grains Sulphate of soda and magnesia (Glauber's and Epsom salts) .... 480 Oxide of iron . . . , . . 5 Muriate of soda (sea salt) ... .5 Sulphate of lime 40 Carbonate and muriate of magnesia . 25 555 Cubic inches Carbonic acid gas . . « . 30 36 Azotic and hepatic gases . » . 15'18 45-54 This analysis was made by Dr. Fothergill in the year 1788. Although the water of this well had generally a strong flavour of sulphuretted hydrogen gas many years ago, yet it has not discovered any indication of it for several years past. Its medical virtues depend entirely on the purgative salts and iron which it contains, aided by the diluting principle of the water. The iron strengthens the stomach, while the salts operate on the bowels. Cheltenham possesses numerous other wells of various characters. Some differ widely in properties from the Old Spa, while others re- semble it. The best example of this is the chalybeate, strong saline well in the long pump room, situated in Montpellier ground. The water of this pump, when first drawn, is perfectly transparent, is without smell, and has a strong refractive power. To the taste it is chalybeate, distinctly saline, and slightly bitter. Its tem- perature was 53° at 29'5 barometrical pressure the temperature of tne air being 65° Fahr. Its specific gravity was as 2 039 to 2-036. On pouring the water fresh from the pump from one tumbler into another, an,d leaving it ex- posed to the air, it separates a number ol exceedingly minute air bubbles, which adhere to the inner surface of the glass. Exposed to the open atmosphere for eight days it sufi'ered no material change. The abundance of this spring is such that it yields upwards of 800 gallons of water in twenty-four hours at every season of the yeai;..CHE [ 278 J CHE Its constituent parts are the following : — Contents in a gallon Grains Muriate of soda. _ . . . . 219-75 Sulphate of magnesia . • • • 98'25 Sulphate of soda .... 80-01 Muriate of magnesia . . . . 40-00 Muriate of lime 36-00 Carbonate of iron . , • . . 7-1 Sulphate of lime • . . . 85-01 56C-17 Cubic inches Carbonic acid gas .... 12-07 Oxygen gas 4-03 Atmospheric air. . . . . l'2l 17-31 This analysis shows that it holds in solution several of the most active ingredients of mineral waters, and approximates nearly in composition to that of the Old Spa. Its medical character is similar in every respect, for it has a speedy operation on the alimentary canal, anSt produces evacuations without griping, or leaving any languor or debility. It is probably on this account, and from the salutary influence of the chalybeate, that it may be employed uninter- ruptedly for a considerable length of time, and that, during its use, the digestive organs will be strengthened, the appetite improved, and the constitution invigorated. The sensible effects sometimes produced by this water on first taking it are a degree of drowsiness and headache; but these symptoms soon go off spontaneously, even previously to the operation of the bowels. When taken in too small a quantity to affect the intestinal canal, it will generally determine pretty power- fully to the kidneys. Thore is m advantage attending this water in common with all pur- gative waters, that it may be used in most cases at once without any preparation of the body. There are, however, some conditions of the system in which the water will distress the stomach and head, unless the bowels have pre- viously been excited to action by preparatory medicines. Invalids in the habit of using calomel may take 2 or 3 grains of it at bed- time, and a dose of the water at the well next morning to work it off. Three doses of calomel thus taken to act as purgatives,, with an interval of several days between each, will commonly be sufficient to prepare the body for a course of this water. The season for drinking it is during the whole of the summer months, and the time of day found by experience to be the best is early in the morning, when the water contains most iron, and the stomach is empty. Notwithstand- ing some valetudinarians drink it at bedtime, for the purpose of its remaining all night in the bowels, that it may more completely cleanse them in the morning after exercise. The dose ought always to be moderate on first using it, and the quantity increased according to the effects produced on the body. It will, conse- quently, depend very much on the age, sex, con- stitution, and disease of the invalid, and whether it is intended gently to augment the natural evacuations, or to act as a brisk cathartic. A small tumbler containing about 6 ozs. of the water will, in general, be a sufficient dose at the commencement of the course. This quan- tity may, however, be repeated, if required, after walking a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes ; and may in two or three days be augmented to two glasses, holding 12 ozs. each, called well pints. When the water disturbs the stomach, instead of passing off freely, Cheltenham salts should be added to one of the glasses. These salts are kept in a state of solution at all the wells, for the purpose of strengthening the water when it is not sufficiently active of itself. The symptoms of nausea, flatulence, and vomiting, which sometimes occur from its use will be relieved by peppermint drops, ether, or a tea-spoonful of the simple tincture of carda- moms, taken with the water or after it. When it continues to cause headache or giddiness the water should be warmed or exposed to the at- mosphere for a few minutes before it is drank, to dissipate the aerial principle; and after drink- ing it the invalid should walk about in the open air The temperature of the water is of some importance. In its cold state it braces the stomach and cools the body, while in its warm it relaxes. Invalids should, therefore, endeavour to habituate themselves to the use of it in the coldest state, except in those cases where warmth is required; then some of the water, which is kept on purpose by the pumper, heated, should be added to each dose. The duration of the course necessarily varies with the nature of the disease and the effects of the water on the constitution. The diet should be light and nutritive. Flatulent food, malt liquors, and acid fruits, which are apt to disorder the stomach and bowels, and to occasion griping and habitual purging, should be carefully avoided. Daily exercise in the morning and regular habits of life are indispensably necessary. From the medicinal powers of this water, and the known importance of the due performance of the functions of the alimentary canal in the establishment of health, it is obvious that it is applicable to a vast number of miscellaneous diseases of a chronic kind, and many of which are highly difficult of cure.[ 279 3 CHE It has been found of essential service in subduing stomach complaints, the effects of gout or rheumatism, and other causes, by di- minishing the effects of acrimonious matters in the intestines ; by removing the load of undi- gested food from the debilitated organs; and by bringing the body to a regular solutive state, v\'ithout weakening the digestive powers. It is highly useful in suppressed menstruation, in removing glandular obstructions, especially of those affecting the liver and the other organs connected with it; in leucorrhoea, in nervous and hypochondriacal diseases, and in checking the progress of incipient dropsies, which so often proceed from them. Persons who, from a long residence in a hot climate, or from indulgence in the luxuries of the table, are suffering under derangement of the hepatic system, marked either by excess or deficiency of bile, and a morbid condition of this secretion, will derive much benefit from a course of this water judiciously administered. It has relieved a variety of scrofulous dis- orders in different parts ; inflammations of the eye and eyelids ; and, from the sympathy exist- ing between the bowels and skin, it has been equally salutary in old ulcers and discharges of the legs, and in several cutaneous diseases, which, in popular language, are called scurvies. Various parts of the human body, particularly the intestines, are infested with worms, which, by means of their living principle, resist the powerf il solvents of that cavity. This water will be found advantageous in expelling them, not only by its purgative quality, but also by its ferruginous impregnation, which is to them poisonous. Its tendency to keep the body in a solutive state renders it a convenient remedy for habitual oostiveness, and for its general consequence, the piles. In short, it is indicated in all cases requiring a continued and moderate alvine evacuation. CHEMISES. There is considerable variety in the formation of women's inner garments. Ac- cording to this variety it will require from 25 to 2 7 yards of yard-wide lin en or calico to make twelve plain chemises of a full medium size, or such as are sufficiently large for most persons. Some persons like to have their sleeves made full, cut either straight or angularly, and set into stitched 'bands, like those of petticoats. Sometimes a three-cornered bit is added across at the shoul- ders, a button being sewn on at the joining in of the sleeve, and the angular point of the piece just mentioned secured to it, so as to pass over and cover the strap of the stays. Others, again, prefer their chemises to be cut out round the neck, and trimmed, or else to be cut with lap- pets. If the former method be adopted a rather smaller quantity of linen will suffice, as some of the gussets may be cut from the pieces sloped out. Some persons put two full breadths of linen into a chemise; and, should the material be only seven-eighths wide, this may occasion- ally be desirable. Kespecting the length of the chemise, some calculate it from the chest only, and add the narrow strips which form the shoulders. This is a very economical mode, and, when lappets are not considered essential, it answers very well, especially for children. For a person five feet two inches in height one chemise will require 2^ yards; for a dozen, 30 yards. First cut off 15 yards, and divide it into 12 breadths. Then take a slip of 5| inches wide off the other 15 yards, which slip is to be made into sleeves and gussets. The remainder of the 15 yards from which have been taken the slip divide into 12 breadths. Then take one whole breadth, and one breadth that has had the slip taken off, and sew the two together to form the body of the chemise. If the selvages are good sew them together; if not simply turn them in, and sew on the right side, and then make a sew-and-fell seam of the other edges. Having finished the two seams open the work, and pin the seams together, so that they may come in the middle of the chemise. Then measure 8 inches at opposite corners of the cloth ; fold it like a gore, and cut it across; then open it, and pin the pieces together. The top will be 16 inches, and the bottom will be considerably wider. Then sew and fell the cross seams, leaving I yard or 9 inches for the armhole. Each shoulder must be sewn and felled 4^ inches. The remaining part must be either cut down for lappets, or cut round for the bosom, as may be preferred. Each sleeve must be cut off 11 inches from the slip, and the gusset must be 4 inches square. If the chemise be made with lappets it must have a gusset of an inch square in each corner. Before sewing it take a gore off from the top on each side, and slope it to a point. These gores must be added to the lower part of the chemise, by which means seams on the shoulders are rendered unnecessary. A gore could be taken off one side of the full length before sewing the linen, and sewn on the other side ; or the linen could be cut into separate breadths, and every two breadths sewn together like a bag. Then place the seams together; pin them correctly; fold the linen diagonally from one end to the other in the proper proportions; and then proceed to the cutting out. This is considered the best way. CHEMISES, NPGHT. For grown-up per- sons yard-wide linen or calico would take, for half a dozen full-sized chemises, cutting them from two full breadths of cloth, about 23 J yards.CHE CHE [ 280 ] Cut off 18 yards for the six bodies, each body to be 3 yards in length. Then cut off 3 yards for the sleeves, each sleeve being J yard long; and 1 yard for the collars, each collar also being I yard long; J yard for wristbands, each wrist- band being 9 inches in length; 12 inches for sleeve-gussets, the gussets being 6 inches square each; and for shoulder-straps 10 inches. For neck-gussets, cut in half, 4t} inches. Instead of shoulder-straps and gussets sometimes pieces are let in on the shoulders, which gradually widen from those points to the neck. For grown persons the bosoms of night chemises should be cut down like shirt bosoms; and the bosoms, collars, and wristbands should be trimmed. It is preferable to make children's night chemises open at the back of the neck, and they should have the collars put on accord- ingly.—{Finchley Manual.) CHERRIES, BOTTLED. Gather your fruit before it becomes too ripe, and put it into bottles; fill them up as close as you can, and seal the corks. Place the bottles in a bain marie, and as soon as the water begins to boil lessen the fire, and a quarter of an hour after take the water out of the bain marie. CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Bruise a few cherries, mulberries, and raspberries, so that you may obtain from them ^ pint of clear juice, which mix with 1 pint of brandy and rather more than lib. of sugar, and dissolve it; put some fine cherries into bottles, cut the tails about half way, and pour on them the juice, brandy, &c,, which must cover the fruit. The cherries preserved in this way may be glazed with caramel, sugar, or white glaze, if you wish to serve them in a dessert. CHERRIES, COATED. Take half a dozen cherries that have been preserved in liquid, one of which must have the stalk on; drain them, cut them in half, and when the stone is taken cut place them round the one with the tail (which must not be cut), so as to form one large cherry. Cover it with fine powder sugar, and dry it in a stove or oven. CHERRIES, COMPOTE OF. Cut off the stalks of cherries about half way, and throw them into cold water; when the water is well drained from them put them into clarified sugar boiled to grande perle'; let them boil up over a quick fire five or six times; then take the preserving-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and skim When cool put them into com- potiers. CHERRIES, CONSERVE OF. Stone lib. of cherries, take the seeds from 2ozs. of red currants, and place them in a silver vessel over a moderate fire until the fruit is reduced to J lb. Boil 1^ lb. of sugar to the degree grande casse, throw the fruit into it, and stir them well together till it begins to puff up. You may then put the conserve into paper cases. - CHERRIES, DRIED. Arrange some sound, ripe cherries, with their stalks on, upon little hurdles made for the purpose. Take care not to place one upon another, and put them in a cool oven (just after the bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. When cold tie up in little bunches, and keep them in a dry place. CHERRIES, FRENCH. Hang morello cherries by the stalks singly in the sun to dry, in a place free from dust. When quite dry cut them from the stalks, and place them one by one in glasses ; cover them with powder sugar, and fill them up with white wine. Set them in a stove to swell, and then they are fit for use. CHERRIES, SYRUP OF. The best cherries for this purpose are black, sour ones. Take out the stones and express the juice into an earthen pan, where it must stand, in a cool place, for twenty-four hours to clear. At the end of that time pour the juice gently into a pan, and add to it, for each pound of juice, 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, and 2 drachms of cin- namon previously infused in a glass of water. Wrap the cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put it, with the water, into your pan; boil all together for half an hour, skimming it care- fully. When sufficiently done take out the cin- namon, strain the syrup till quite clear, and when cold bottle it. CHERRIES FOR TARTS. Prick some morello cherries with a needle, each three or four times, and let them stand in a dish with powder sugar sifted over them. The next day boil some sugar to a syrup, and whilst hot put the fruit into it. When it has remained in it twenty-four hours take it out, and boil the syrup again till very thick; then put in a little brandy, and add the cherries. When cold put them into glasses, and keep them in a cool place. CHERRIES EN TIMBALE. Take the stones very carefully from 2 lbs. of good, red, fleshy cherries; add to them the kernels, and put them, with some clarified sugar, into a sugar-pan, and boil them gently till very thick; then put them into a basin, and mix with them the juice of 2 lemons and a little clarified isinglass. Set this on ice, and, j ust before you serve it, put it into a timbale paste previously prepared. CHERRY. Cherry trees, exclusively of their delicious fruit, afford, by their plentiful leaves, an excellent article of food for fattening hogs. They also exude a gum in some respects equal to gum arabic, and which is so extremely nu- tritive, that above a hundred men were kept alive, during a siege, for nearly two months,[ 281 ] CHE CHE with no other sustenance than that produced by gradually dissolving a little of this gum in the mouth. The wood is hard and tough; it is used by turners in the manufacture of chairs, and stained to imitate mahogany. From the ripe black cherries the Swiss distil a very agreeable liquor, or ardent spirit, marasquina, by the sale of which to the French and Ger- mans they annually derive considerable profit. For preserving this fruit during the winter we communicate the following recipe, inserted in Hochheimer's German work on " Domestic Economy:"—" Take, in the proportion of 2lbs. of sour cherries, ^Ib. of fiae loaf sugar, and 1 pint of white wine vinegar; boil the two last, and skim off the impurities from the top ; then let the liquor stand till it becomes lukewarm. Meanwhile, prepare a coarse powder, consisting of 2 drachms of cinnamon and 1 drachm of cloves ; break the stalks of the cherries in the middle, 80 as to leave half of their length for the jar, into which they must be carefully put in layers, strewing a little of the spice between each stratum, pouring the liquor above mentioned on the top, and securing the whole from the access of air." With respect to their physical effects, cherries may be divided into sweet, subacid, and pulpy. The first kind, though the most palatable, are the least wholesome, as they readily ferment, and produce flatulency in weak stomachs ; the second are the most antiseptic; an^ the third the most nourishing, but digested with some difficulty.: Hence we would preferably recom- mend the subacid cherries as an excellent article of domestic medicine in the true scurvy, in putrid fevers, and the dysentery, as likewise to those persons who are liable to obstructions in the alimentary canal. With this intention they, may be eaten in considerable quantities, and frequently from ^Ib. to lib. each time, but particularly on an empty stomach. Nor will they be found less salutary to constitutions whose bile is vitiated, whose stomach is troubled with foul eructations, and who are afflicted with offensive breath. All such persons should eat them freely. For similar reasons dried cherries form an excellent article of diet in acute or inflammatory disorders, where they should be used both in substance and in decoctions, which are equally cooling and antiseptic. CHERRY BRANDY (Black). Pick and bruise 8 lbs. of black maroons and the same quantity of small black cherries ; let them stand for two months in a cask with 6 gallons of brandy, 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, and 1 quart of sack, well stirred together. At the end of that time it may be diawn off and bottled. CHERRY CAKES. Cut lib. of tart paste in half, and roll it out thin; chop preserved cherries into small pieces, and drop them on the paste; egg them round carefully, turn the paste over them, and press them gently together; then with a gigging-iron cut them into half circles, prick, and wash them over with egg. Bake them on a well-buttered tin in a quick oven, CHERRY CORDIAL. Place layers of black cherries and powder sugar alternately in a stone jar that is broader at the bottom than at the top until quite full; then pour on them spirits of wine in the proportion of half a pint to two gallons ; stop it as closely as possible, and bury it for six months, when it may be strained and bottled. Keep it tightly corked. CHERRY FRITTERS. Cut some large sheets of wafers into pieces large enough to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain the latter on a sieve, and then wrap them one by one in the wafer, one piece at the top and one piece at the bottom. Having slightly wetted the wafers, press the edges together, lay them on a sieve without touching each other, and leave them to dry. Make a light batter, in which put brandy. Madeira, and melted butter; dip the cherries in this, drain, and fry them to a nice colour in a moderately hot pan; then drain them again, sprinkle fine sugar over, and serve them. CHERRY FRITTERS ALA DAUPHINE. Pick fib. of fine cherries, and boil them five or six times with J lb. of powder sugar: take out the cherries, drain them, and boil the sugar a la nappe; then put in the cherries again, and leave them to cool. In the meantime roll out lib. of brioche paste; make your fritters as directed for Fritters a la Dauphine, and put five or six cherries in each. Fry them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve them quickly. CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and stalks from 2 lbs. of ripe cherries, bruise, and set them on the fire with a little water and ^ lb. of sugar. When they have boiled pass them through a hair sieve into a.i earthen pan. Pound a hand- ful of kernels, and put them in a basin with the juice of 2 lemons ; add to the cherries lib. of sugar au petit lisse, and strain on them the lemon-juice and kernels. Mix the whole to- gether, and put it in a sahotiere with pounded ice. Work the cherries up with it well until it has set, and then place it in glasses. CHERRY JAM. Having stoned and boiled 3 lbs. of fine cherries, bruise them, and let the juice run from them ; then boil together ^Ib. of red currant juice and ^ lb. of loaf sugar; pu the cherries into these whilst they are boiling, and strew on sugar. Boil all together very fast for half an hour, and then put it into pots. When cold put on brandy papers. CHERRY JELLY. Having taken the stalks and stones from 2 lbs. of dark red, fleshy cher-[ 282 J CHE CHE ries, put them in a basin, pound the kernels, and squeeze the juice of 4 lemons through a tammy. Mash the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting iu first half a pot of currant jelly, then the kernels, and lastly the lemon-juice; mix these together well; then, having boiled and skimmed 1 pint of thick clarified sugar and isinglass, put the cherries into a jelly bag, pour the sugar, &c., over them; run it through till quite clear. If not sufiiciently sweet add more sugar; if the contrary add more lemon-juice. Wet the mould, set it in ice, and fill it with the jelly. Do not turn it out till the last minute. CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take 3lbs. of sweet almonds, S^lbs. of sugar, and lib. of cherries; pound the almonds to a paste, and mix it with sugar boiled to petit boulet; then, having stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out the juice of the cherries, add to it the rest; stir it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring con- stantly until the paste is properly done; then finish it in the usual way. CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose the ripest, largest, best red-coloured cherries you can meet with, and take of them double the weight of the sugar you intend to use ; stone and tail, and then put them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring them till reduced to half. Clarify and boil your sugar to petite casse, then add the fruit to it, and stir it until you can see the bottom of the pan. The marmalade is then sufiiciently done, and may be put into pots. CHERRY PASTE. Take 2 lbs. of morello cherries, stone them, press out the juice through a sieve (they must be boiled first), and put it into a skillet over the fire to dry a little; mix lib. of sugar, boiled to grande plume, with this, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. When the paste is of good consistence put it into moulds, and dry it in a gentle oven. CHERRY PUDDING. Make a plain batter pudding and stir in picked cherries, taking care not to break them. The batter must be made thicker, and with more eggs, than for plain boiling. Tie it in a cloth, and boil it as any other pudding. CHERRY RATAFIA. Take the stones and stalks from the quantity of cherries you intend to use, and put a few raspberries with them; bruise and put them into a jar, and let them stand for four or five days, stirring the pulp two or three times eaeh day; then press out all the juice, measure it, and to every three pints of it put a quart of brandy; add to these five pints 3 handsful of kernels pounded, and \\Vo. of sugar. Infuse in the same jar a handful of coriander and a little cinnamon. Let it stand seven or eight days, stirring it every day ; then filter it, put it into bottles, and cork them well. CHERRY TARTLETS. Take the stones from l^lb. of sweet cherries, and give them a few boils in Jib. of powder sugar, but no water. Prepare your tartlets in the usual way, and, having drained the fruit, put it in, and mask the tartlets with the syrup reduced. CHERRY WATER. Take 1 lb. of Kentish cherries, and pound them in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them. Take the cherries and kernels, put them into a basin, and add 4 gills of syrup; squeeze 4 lemons in, and add a sufficient quantity of water. Make it to your taste, pass it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. CHERRY WINE. To make five pints of this wine take 15 pounds of cherries, 2 lbs. of currants, and bruise them together; mix with them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole (the cherries, currants, and kernels) into a barrel, with of sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel must be quite full. Cover the barrel with vine leaves, with sand above them, and let it stand till it has done working, which will be in about three weeks; then stop it with a bung, and iu two months' time it may be bottled. CHERVIL is principally used in soups and stuffing, and is generally preserved with other herbs as follows:—Take of sorrel, chervil, beet, purslane, and cucumbers if in season, quanti- ties according to your liking; wash them well, and mince and press them in your hand to squeeze out all the water. Put them into a kettle, with water, some butter, and salt, and boil them till the water is entirely consumed. Take them out, and when cold put them into pots, and cover them with warmed butter. When you want to use these herbs put them into some stock that has very little salt in it. If they are required for a farce or garnish boil them a minute or two in some butter, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs and milk. When so prepared they may be served under hard eggs or broiled fish. For sauce it must be chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and mixed with melted butter. CHERVIL SAUCE. Put a few mushrooms, parsley, chibbal, shallots, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a few tarragon leaves, in some melted butter, and let them soak for some time ; then add a little broth, white wine, pepper, and salt. Reduce it to a proper thickness, but do not skim it. When done put in some chervil, scalded and chopped, and heat it all up to- gether. CHESTNUT. Its wood, if kept dry, is ex tremely durable. This ornament to the country is, at the same time, of great utility for domestic purposes. It excels the oak in two respects, namely, that it grows faster, and that the sapCHE [ 283 ] CHE parts of the timber are more firm and less liable to corruption. The shoots from the stubs being numerous and luxuriant, it makes an excellent underwood, and is of great service for hop-poles, as it may be cut when about eighteen or twenty years old, and will continue productive for nearly thirty years. Being greatly superior to elm for door jambs, and several other pur- poses of house carpentry, it is considered as nearly equal to the oak itself; but, on account of its possessing a precarious brittleness, which renders it unsafe for beams, it ought not to be employed in any situation where an uncertain weight is sometimes to be supported. All writers agree that the wood of the chestnut is peculiarly excellent for casks, as it neither shrinks nor changes the taste or colour of the liquor. It is also converted into various articles of furniture, and, when stained, may be made to resemble in beauty and colour the finest mahogany. This improvement is effected by rubbing it over, first with alum-water, then laying on with a brush a decoction of logwood chips, and lastly, a decoction of Brazil-wood. Besides these various uses to which this tree may be applied, its fruit affords an agreeable addition to our winter dessert. If properly managed a sweet and nutritious bread may be prepared from it, especially when mixed with a small proportion of wheaten or other flour. In its wild state it is called the horse chestnut, and, independently of its beauty as an ornamental tree, its mealy nuts supply not only an excellent food for fattening deer and hogs, but are like- wise of great service in whitening cloth and the manufacture of starch. The nuts must be first taken out of the outward green prickly husks, and the brown rind carefully pared off", so as totally to eradicate the sprout or growth. They are next to be rasped, or grated fine, into water, and the pulp thus produced should be washed as clean as possible through a hair sieve. This washing is repeated twice through fine sieves, constantly adding pure water, to prevent any starch from adhering to the pulp. The last process is to strain it with a large quantity of water (about four gallons to a pound of starch) through a fine gauze, muslin, or lawn sieve, in order to clear it entirely of all bran or other impurities. As soon as it subsides the water is to be poured off, and the remaining substance mixed up repeatedly with clean water till the latter becomes perfectly colourless. It should then be drained off till it is nearly dry, and set to bake, either in the usual mode in which starch is baked, or spread out before a brisk fire, care being taken to prevent it from horning, or turning into a paste or jelly; which, as soon as it becomes dry, acquires the solidity and hardness of horn. CHESTNUT CREAM. Roast and then pound a quarter of a hundred chestnuts with a small quantity of milk; to this add the yolks of % eggs, 1 pint of milk, |-lb. of powder sugar, and about 1 oz. of butter. Boil these together for some minutes, then strain it, and set it by to cool. CHESTNUT CROQUETTES. Roast 50 fine chestnuts, pick them, and take away all those parts that may have become coloured. Set aside 12, and divide each into half; pound the remainder with 2 ozs. of butter, and rub the paste through a sieve into a stewpan, with a glass of cream, 2 ozs. of butter, the same of sugar, and a grain of salt. Put it on a moderate fire, stirring it one way. In two minutes add to it the yolks of 6 eggs, and re- place it on the fire for one minute, when the cream will have some consistence; pour it on a buttered baking-dish, spread it out, and cover it with paper. When cold inclose each half chestnut in double its size of the cream, roll it in the hollow of your hand to make it per- fectly round, and then roll in crumb of bread, grated extremely fine. All the croquettes being thus formed, beat up 5 eggs, add a pinch of salt, dip the croquettes in this, drain, and then roll them again in bread-crumbs. Make them quite smooth in the hollow of your hand, and fry them in lard, or whatever else you please. Move the croquettes with the point of a skewer, and when done take them out with a skimmer ; drain them well, sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them in a pyramidal form. CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a marmalade of boiling chestnuts in water, and, rubbing them through a sieve, pound them ; and to |lb. of this add J lb. of any other fruit marmalade. Mix them well up with an equal weight of sugar, boiled to grande plume; put it into your moulds, and bake it as cherry or any other paste. CHESTNUT PIE. Glaze the quantity of chestnuts you may require with orange flowers, and lay them in layers in a crust made of almond paste; cut lemon-peel into fillets, and stick them into the interstices; cover the whole with very clear apple jelly. CHESTNUT PUDDING. Put a dozen and a half of chestnuts into a skillet or saucepan of water, and boil them a quarter of an hour; then blanch and peel them, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little orange-flower or rose water and white wine, until they are a very fine paste ; then beat up the yolks of 12 eggs, with half the whites, and mix them well; grate half a nutmeg, a little salt, and mix them with 3 pints of cream and ^Ib. of melted butter; sweeten to your palate, and mix all together. Put it over the fire, and keep stirring it until[ 284 ] CHE CHE it is thick. Lay a pufF-paste all over the dish, pour in the mixture, and bake it. When you cannot procui'e cream take 3 pints of milk, beat up the yolks of 4 eggs and stir it into the milk; set it over the fire, stirring all the lime until it is scalding hot; then mix it in the room of the cream. CHESTNUT PUEEE. Slit the peel of some fine new chestnuts, and fry them in a little butter till the peel comes off; then let them boil in some consomme and sugar. Add half a dozen spoonsful of Espagnole when nearly done, and then rub the whole through a tammy. This sauce, being apt to get too thick, must be kept rather liquid. CHESTNUT SOUP. Half roast about seventy or eighty chestnuts in hot ashes, and then take off the outer , and second skins. Boil them in some good beef or rich fowl stock. When well done pound those which have broken in the boiling, and press them through a sieve, moistening them with stock as a puree. Keep the unbroken chestnuts to place round the dish as a garnish. CHESTNUTS: To Keep. Pierce the skins of the chestnuts as if for roasting, and then put them into bottles, and boil them up in the bain marie. When you wish to use them throw them one by one into cold water, then sprinkle salt over them, and broil them. CHESTNUTS AU CARAMEL. Roast chestnuts as for the table; take off the skins, dip each in the whites of eggs beaten, and then roll them in powder sugar. Lay them sepa- rately on paper to dry in a moderate oven. They may be cut into different forms if you think proper, and glazed either white or brown. CHESTNUTS GLACES. Having taken the outer skin from some fine chestnuts blanch them in some boiling water, with two spoonsful of flour, until they are sufficiently tender to allow a pin to pass through them easily; then take them one by one from the saucepan, clear away the inner skin, and throw them into cold water. When all are done drain them, and simmer them a minute or two in some clarified sugar; then add a little lemon-juice, and put them into a stove till the next day. Di'ain them again, and boil the sugar about ten or twelve times, and set it by. When lukewarm put in the chestnuts, and place the whole in the stove again. When ready to finish drain the chestnuts a third time, sprinkle them with sugar, and dry them on slates. CHESTNUTS AND PLUM PUDDING. Having roasted thirty-six chestnuts choose from among them ten that are perfectly white, and cut them in halves; take from the remainder a quarter of a pound, and beat them, with an equal weight of fresh butter, to a paste; rub them through a horsehair sieve, and add to them 3 ozs. of rice flour, 6 yolks of eggs, and 2 whole eggs; 14 ozs. of veal suet, shred; J lb. of sugar, the same of bitter macaroon, and the same of stoned raisins; the 20 half chestuuts, each cut into four pieces; half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, grated nutmeg, and half a glass of rum or arrack. CHESTNUTS, RAGOtT OF. When the chestnuts are properly prepared put them into a saucepan with half a glass of white wine, 2 spoonsful of cullis, a little stock and salt, and boil until reduced to a thick sauce. Be care- ful not to break the chestnuts, but they must be thoroughly done. CHESTNUTS, ROASTED. They should be placed on the fire, in a pan with holes, to roast, first slitting or cutting a notch in the skins to prevent their flying off. When done serve them in dessert, on a napkin, as hot as possible. Some boil the chestnuts instead of roasting them, as the skins are then clearer, but the nuts are not quite so mealy. The better way is to boil them in plenty of water, and when nearly done take them out and roast them. CHESTNUTS, STEWED. Cut a notch in the skins of about fifty chestnuts, and put them into a stewpan with a little butter; shake them over the fire; and when the skin is quite come off let them simmer in some consomme. Turn them about occasionally till nearly dry; then add a little Espagnole, and simmer them gently in that for a shoit time. If it should be too thick you may add more consomme. Salt it to your taste, and put in a few mushrooms stewed. Great care should be taken not to break the chestnuts. Serve them with roasted turkey, stewed beef, &c. CHETNEY, ENGLISH. Three pounds of very sour apples must be peeled, cored, and pounded to a mash; ^ lb. of green mint leaves chopped fine; the juice of 2 lemons; i lb. of chillies or the bird's eye, if to be had fresh from the plant; ^ lb. of salt, and i lb. of onions. All to be pounded in a stone or marble mortar to a paste, and then pressed hard into pots. CHETNEY, INDIAN. Take 2 lbs. of green tamarinds after they are stoned; 2 lbs. of green or unripe mangoes ; 2 lbs. of ginger roots, fresh; 2 lbs. of onions or garlic; 1^ lb. of raisins, and 7 pints of strong vinegar. Pound well the first four ingredients, peel off the skins of the onions or garlic, put all into a jar that will hold them with the vinegar, and expose it to the sun, well secured from bad weather, for one month. CHEVREUIL SAUCE. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan with chopped parsley, shallots, thyme, mushrooms, and a few spoons- ful of gravy or brown stock; let them simmerL 285 ] C H 1 CHI elowly about a quarter of an hour, and tlien add butter enough to absorb the flour, and continue stirring it a few minutes longer. Put in 1 pint of stock, and stir it till the ingredients have boiled a little together ; then take off the pan, squeeze in some lemon-juice, and add ] tea- spoonful of pulverised lump sugar, with a small portion of pepper and salt to give it poignancy. CHICKEN POX. Commonly, after symp- toms of fever, an eruption appears, first on the back, and which consists of small red pimples. On the second day they assume the appearance of vesicles, containing a colourless or yellowish fluid. On the third the pustules arrive at maturity. The vesicles being subsequently ruptured, thin scabs are formed, without the appearance of purulent matter. About the fifth day from its commencement the eruption disap- pears, no indenture being left behind. This disease, which is derived from specific infectious matter, affects persons but once in their lives. It usually appears on the eighth or ninth day from the reception of the contagion. It may be known from small pox, which it much resem- bles, by the eruption not being preceded by for- midable febrile symptoms, nor by such as are uniformly of some extent; also by the pustules generally appearing first on the back, coming earlier to maturity, containing nothing but a yellow watery fluid, and drying or forming in- crustations on the fourth or fifth day. These distinguishing marks are the more essential, as, by an error m this respect, reliance might be placed on a fallacious security. Matter, too, from want of just discrimination, has been doubtless not unfrequently taken from the eruption, with the view of inoculating for the small pox. thereby subjecting those undergoing the process to the subsequent depredation of a formidable infection. The chicken pox, being a mild disease, always terminates favourably. The remedies suited to it are vegetable diet, some lessening of the in- fluence of heat, together with that of the other natural powers. Simple purgatives will be re- quired. CHICKEN BROTH. Boil the breast of a chicken in a quart of water. Take off the skin, and when the meat is cold pound it to a paste in a marble mortar with a little of the liquor; then season with a little salt, grated nutmeg, and a small bit of lemon-peel. Boil this com- pound gently for a few minutes till it acquires a proper consistency. Having thus prepared what is called chicken panada, which is of itself very nourishing, take the body and legs of a fowl, and, having removed the skin and rump, boil them in the water that was left of the former, and if there is not enough add as much as will be sufficient, with a blade of mace, a slice of bread, and ten or twelve whole pepper- corns ; then simmer till the broth has a pleasant taste. Beat ^ oz. of sweet almonds with a tea- spoonful of water very fine. Boil it in the broth, which must be strained, and when cold have the fat taken off. CHICKEN BROTH, PECTORAL. Pre- pare a chicken in the usual way, and put it into a saucepan with 2 ^ pints of water, 2 ozs. of pearl barley, the same of rice, and 2 ozs. of the best honey. Boil all together, skimming well for three hours, until it be reduced to two-thirds. CHICKEN, BUTTERED. Cut the chicken in quarters ; wash them in milk and water; simmer in as much milk as will cover them, with an onion stuck with cloves, zest, parsley, and salt for fifteen or twenty minutes. Mix a little of the liquor with ^ lb. of butter, some rich cream, nutmeg, and the yolks of 2 eggs. Work the sauce, and put in the chicken, but do not let it boil. This dish looks well in a deep dish or rice border, garnished with sliced lemon. CHICKEN EN CAPILOTADE. Put into a stewpan a little butter and flour; add mush- rooms, parsley, and shallots, cut small; dilute these with equal quantities of stock and red or white wine. When the sauce is well boiled skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces and put it into this sauce, and stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkms cut in thm slices. CHICKEN AND CAULIFLOWERS. Chop up the livers of two middhng sized chick- ens, and mix with them parsley, scallions, a bit of butter, salt, and pepper. Put this into the bodies of the chickens, which must be trussed like turkey poults; parboil them with a bit of butter or lard, then wrap them in bacon or buttered paper, and roast them. When done serve them with sauce made of cullis, butter, salt, and pepper, boiled up. Garnish with plain boiled cauliflowers. CHICKEN A LA CENDRE. Stuff a couple of chickens with a rich farce, lard, and prepare them as for roasting. Line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon, onions, cairots, &c.; place the chickens in it, and let them stew in their own gravy for five or six hours over hot ashes. Keep the stewpan closely covered. When done serve them in their own liquor; but if that should be too thick put in a little stock or veal gravy. Boil it up two or three times. CHICKEN AND CHEESE. When the chickens are drawn and trussed cut them along the back, and flatten them; toss them up in a stewpan with a bit of butter, half a glass of white wine, the same of red wine, parsley, scallions,- 2 cloves, half a clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and very little salt andCHI CHI [ 286 ] pepper. Stew them gently for about an hour; then take out the chickens, and put in a bit of butter, the size of a walnut, worked into some flour, and thicken this over the fire. Pour part of this sauce on a dish, and upon tbe sauce a handful of Gru3'ere cheese grated, as there is underneath. Put the dish in a baking-pan, with fire above and below. When of a good colour serve it quite hot. If the cheese be very salt the chickens must be dressed previously without salt. CHICKEN CHJSINGATE. Having taken off the feet, beat the breast bones of your chickens flat, without breaking the skin ; flour, and fry them in butter. When of a nice brown take all the fat from the pan, leaving in the chickens, over which lay 1 lb. of gravy beef cut in thin slices; another piece of beef, also cut thin; some mace, cloves, pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour a quart of boiling water over the whole, cover it quite close, and let it stew. In a quarter of an hour take out the chickens, but let the gravy continue boiling, and when very rich strain it; then put it again into the pan, with a little red wine and a few mushrooms; then put in the chickens, and when they are hot dish them up and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with slices of lemon and broiled ham. CHICKEN AND CRAYFISH. Having boned two or three middling-sized chickens, roll them up, making them pointed at the neck, and braise them with the same number of crayfish for an hour. Then wipe off the fat, and put them on a dish in the following manner :—Put the pointed or neck part of the tail of a crayfish on the dish, place the body on a chicken, and the claws at the side. Prepare the sauce as usual, and pour it over the whole. CHICKEN CURRY. Take the skin off, and cut up a chicken, and roll each piece in curry powder and flour (mix together a spoonful of flour to ^-oz. of curry); fry two or three sliced onions in butter. When of a light brown put in the meat, and fry them together till the meat becomes brown ; then stew them together with a little water for two or three hours. More water may be added if too thick. CHICKEN FRITTERS. Make a batter with 4 eggs, some new milk, and rice flour; to this add a pint of cream, powder sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, fresh lemon-peel gi'ated, and the white parts of a roasted chicken shred small. Set all these together on a stove, and stir well for some time. When done take it off, roll out the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fry them. Strew sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them hot. CHICKEN, GELATINE OF. Bone a nice plump chicken very carefully. Cut some ham and truffles into slips of an equal thickness, and as nearly of a length as possible; cut the chicken also into fillets, and add a few slices of veal. I'orm a sort of bed of these in the skin of the chicken, so that, when cut, the slices may be chequered. Season with all sorts of spices ; close the skin ; form it of a proper shape ; sew up the back, and stew it, covered with slices of bacon, parsley, onions, thyme, a bay leaf, a clove, a liLtie spice, carrots, two onions, and some slices of veal; then mix a little broth and a small quantity of calf's foot jelly When the jelly has boiled an hour take it off, and let it cool in the liquor. If this dish be sei'ved hot pour over it any brown sauce; it is, however, better served cold. Take some of the liquor, beat the whites of two or three eggs, and mix them with the cold jelly, after having skimmed off the fat; then put the whole over the fire again, and stir till the liquor is white; then let it boil gently. Next take the jelly from the fire, and lay it aside, with a cover and fire over it, when quite clear. Strain it through a cloth, and let it cool, to be used when wanted. If served cold more pepper and salt must be used. CHICKEN AND HAM (Potted). Season some pieces of chicken with mace, cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about three bom's in a close-covered pan with some water; then pound them quite small, moistening either with melted butter or the liquor they were baked in. Pound also some ham, and put this with the chicken in alternate layers in potting pans; press them down tightly, and cover them with butter. CHICKEN LOAF. Bone a chicken very carefully, and fill it with a ragout of sweetbreads. Make it as nearly as possible of the original form, tie it up in bacon, and wrap a cloth round it. Boil it in some white wine, stock, and sweet herbs. Serve it with Espagnole. CHICKEN A LA MARMOTTE. Boil some carrots and parsnips, cut into shapes, with some small onions, in a little broth. In the meantime cut some mushrooms and pickled cucumbers into dice, and stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, parsley, cloves, stock, salt, and pepper. When they have boiled slowly for a little time add a spoonful of cullis, the carrots, &c. Boil them up together, and serve over roasted chickens. CHICKEN MILK. Boil i pint of water ; beat up the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 oz. of powder sugar, a little orange-flower water, and salt; mix these well until the egg begins to whiten; then add the boiling water, stirring it very quickly, and drink it as hot as possible. CHICKEN AND YOUNG OYSTERS. Fill your chickens with young oysters cut small, truf- fles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. Blanch[ 287 3 CHI CHI about two dozen young oysters, and toss them up in some melted butter, with chopped herbs and olive oil. When they have been cin the fire a quarter of an hour add a little white wine and ^ glass of good stock. Thicken it over tbe fire for another quarter of an hour, and when the chickens are ready to serve pour the sauce on them. Garnish the dish with oysters and some lemon. CHICKEN PIE. Cut a couple of chickens into pieces, and season each piece with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Line a dish with puff paste, and put a layer of forcemeat on it; then put in the chickens, with some sweetbreads cut in pieces, seasoned ham sliced thin, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms quartered, the yolks of hard eggs chopped, fresh mushrooms, cocks- combs, and asparagus. Add a little water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake it. When done pour in some rich gravy, thickened with flour and butter. If the pie is to be eaten cold the truffles, morels, and mushrooms must be omitted. CHICKEN PIE (with Bacon). Season your chickens with pepper, salt, and mace. Put a piece of butter into each of them, and lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards. Lay a thin slice of bacon over them, which will give them an agreeable flavour. Then put in a pint of strong gravy, and make a good puff paste. Put on the lid, and bake it in a moderately heated oven. CHICKEN PIE (with Ham). Season some slices of boiled ham, and lay them on a puff paste about half an inch thick. Then season some pieces of chicken, and place them on the ham, with the yolks of some hard eggs and a few truffles and morels. Cover these with more slices of ham, seasoned as before; put some gravy in, and a puff crust on the top, and bake it thoroughly. If to be eaten hot more gravy may be added when done. CHICKEN PIE (with Parsley). Skin and cut up a chicken, season the pieces with salt; pick and scald some pai'sley, and when squeezed quite dry cut it, and lay it in the pie- dish, then the pieces of chicken, parsley, and chicken again, until the dish is full. Put new milk nearly to the top of the dish; cover and bake it. When done take out some of the milk, and add in its place a pint of scalded cream. CHICKEN PIE (Sweet). Having broken the bones of four chickens, cut them in pieces, season them with mace, cinnamon, and salt, and put them into a dish, with the yolks of 4 hard eggs cut in quarters ; 5 artichoke bottoms; of sun raisins stoned, citron, lemon, eringo root, marrow, and currants, 8 ozs. of each ; 4 slices of lemon, peeled, with 50 balls of forcemeat; cover the whole with rich puff paste, and bake. Boil I pint of white wine with the yolks of 2 eggs ; sweeten, and put it to the pie when baked. Serve quite hot. CHICKEN PUFFS. Minte the breast of a chicken, some lean ham, half an anchovy, a little parsley, shallots, and lemon-peel; season these with pepper, salt, Cayenne, and beaten mace ; set them on the fire a few minutes in a little bechamel; roll out some puff paste thin, cut it into square pieces, and lay in some of the above mixture ; turn the paste over, and fry them in boiling lard. Serve them on fried parsley. CHICKEN RICE PUDDING. Parboil a fine fowl, and cut it up. Boil till soft and dry 1 pint of rice ; and while warm mix with it 1 large table-spoonful of fresh butter. Beat 4 eggs very light, and then mix them gi'adually with the rice. Spread a coating of the rice, &c., over the bottom and sides of a deep dish; place on it the pieces of parboiled fowl, with a little of the liquid in which it was boiled, sea- soned with powdered mace and nutmeg; add some pieces of fresh butter rolled in flour and a little cream; cover the dish closely with the remainder of the rice; set the pudding imme- diately in the oven, and bake it brown. Cold chicken or turkey cooked the day before may be used for this purpose. The pudding may be improved by the addition of a few very thin, small slices of cold ham or smoked tongue. CHICKEN, ROASTED. Be particularly careful in drawing your chickens ; when done cut off the claws, and truss them for dressing Put them down to a good fire, and singe, dust, and baste them with butter; when they are done enough froth them, and lay them in your dish. Serve them up with parsley and butter poured over them, and gravy and mushroom sauce in boats. A large chicken will take half an hour ; a small one twenty minutes. CHICKEN SALAD. Cut cold roast fowl into small long pieces, taking off the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, at the bottom of the salad bowl; put the chicken on it, with all sorts of salading, gherkins, hard eggs cut in quarters, and anchovies cut in slips ; season with the usual salad dressing. Instead of a lettuce parsley and scallions, cut small, may be used. CHICKEN SALAD A LA REINE. Roast four fine plump chickens, and when cold cut them in pieces ; toss them up in an earthen pan with salt, oil, vinegar, parsley, and an onion or shallot cut small; cover them with paper, and leave them in this for some hours. Boil 8 eggs, as nearly the same size as possible, hard, and cast them in, taking off the shells. Wash 6 lettuces, take off the leaves, keeping the hearts quite small; cut the leaves as finely as you can, season them as for common salad, and lay them on a table dish ; then having drained] [ SS8 CHI CHI the chickens, and separated them from the parsley, &c., lay the legs on the lettuce leaves en couronne, in the centre of which place the ■\vings; on the legs put the rumps and two of the breasts ; on these the fillets as closely as possible, laying them alternately flat and up- right ; on the top of the fillets the two breasts that remain. Be careful in keeping this dish as high and upright as possible. Cut the hard eggs each into eight pieces, put them round the dish as a border, and between every piece up- right place a lettuce heai't, and on the top of all lay half of an egg with the lettuce heart in the middle. Then mix together a good pinch of chervil, some tarragon and pimpernel leaves, scalded and shred small, salt, pepper, oil, ravi- gotte vinegar, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. Amalgamate the whole well, and pour over it CHICKEN SAUSAGES. Make two farces, one of bread crumbs, roasted breast of fowl, calf's udder, marrow, baked onions, parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, all chopped very fine, mixed together with a spoonful of brandy, a little cream, and the yolks of 5 eggs. Make the other of scalded sweetbreads, livers, and mushrooms, and season both with spices, salt, and pepper. Split a couple of chickens through the backbone, and lay in each half some of the first-mentioned farce; roll them up, tie, and braise them with a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and some bacon. When done let them cool; then put the rest of the farce round them, wrap them in caul, dip them in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and bake them. Strain, and mix some cuUis and lemon-juice with the liquor in which the chickens were braised, and serve it with them. CHICKEN SCALLOPS (with Cucumbers). Cut scallops from the fillets of four chickens, put them into a pan with some clarified butter, sprinkle them with salt, and serve them with the following sauce:—Pare and slice some green cucumbers, and lay the larger slices, having taken out the seeds (such as are the size of half a crown), in salt and vinegar for a little while; then drain them on a clean cloth, and let them stew gently with some sauce tournee, a small bit of sugar, and a little salt. When done drain them again. In the meantime mince a few cucumbers, and put them, with the parings, into butter, and sweat them till melted. Mix this with the slices, and boil them gently till all the butter is extracted; then reduce it, mix it with some bechamel, and strain it through a tammy. When the scallops are wanted toss them up over a stove, drain the butter, add a little cream, and put them into the sauce. Garnish with the cucumbers drained. CHICKEN WATER. Take a cock or large fowl, and flay it; then bruise it with a hammer, and put it into a gallon of water, with a crust of bread. Let it boil half away, and strain it off". CHICKENS. Chickens, if they have been pulled dry, will be stiff when new; but when stale they will be limber, and their vents appear green. If they have been scalded or pulled wet, on rubbing the breast with the finger and thumb you will ascertain whether they are new by their feeling rough and stiff, whereas if they are smooth and slippery it is a sign that they are stale. A young capon may be known by the smoothness of the legs, and the shortness and bluntness of the spurs. A true capon is ascertained by a fat vein on the side of the breast, a thick belly and rump, and a short and pale comb. If it be new it will have a close, hard vent; but if stale the vent will be open and loose. CHICKENS (Scotch way). Cut your chickens into quarters; put them into a sauce- pan with only just water enough to cover them, a bunch of parsley, some chopped parsley, and a little mace ; cover them closely down. When it boils add six eggs well beaten. When the chickens are done take out the parsley, and serve them in a deep dish with the sauce. CHICKENS: To Boil. After you have drawn them lay them in skimmed milk for two hours, and truss them. When you have properly singed and dusted them with flour cover them closely in cold water, and set them over a slow fire. Having taken off the scum, and boiled them slowly five or six minutes, take them off the fire, and keep them closely covered for half an hour in water, which will do them sufficiently, and make them plump and white. Before you dish them set them on the fire to heat; then drain them, and pour over them white sauce, which you must have made ready in the following man- ner :—Take the heads and necks of the chickens, with a small bit of scrag of veal, or any scrags of mutton you may have by you, and put them into a saucepan, with a blade or two of mace and a few black peppercorns, an anchovy, a head of celery, a slice off the end of a lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put to these a quart of water, cover it closely, and let it boil till it is reduced to half a pint. Then strain it, and thicken it with J lb. of butter mixed with flour, and boil it five or six minutes. Then put in 2 spoonsful of mushrooms, and mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 tea-cupful of cream and a little nutmeg grated. Put in your sauce, and keep shaking it over the fire till it is near boiling; then pour it into your boats, and serve it up with your chickens. CHICKENS : To Broil. Slit your chickens down the back, season them with pepper andCHI CHI C 289 ] salt, aad lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and at a great distance. Let the insides continue next to the fire till they are nearly half done, then turn them, taking care the fleshy sides do not burn, and let them broil till they are of a fine brown. Have ready good gravy sauce, with some mushrooms ; garnish them with lemon, and the livers broiled, the gizzards cut, slashed, and broiled, with pepper and salt. Or you may make the following sauce :—Take a handful of sorrel, and dip it in boiling water; then drain it, and have ready i pint of good gravy, a shallot shred small, and some parsley boiled very green. Thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and add a glass of red wine; then lay your sorrel in heaps around the chickens, and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with sliced lemon. CHICKENS A L'ANGLAISE. Truss and roast them till three parts done, and before they are coloured dish up. Pour on them melted butter mixed with parsley, garlic, tarragon cut small, and a little flour. Serve very hot. CHICKENS, ARTIFICIAL. Make a force- meat with the white meat of chickens or some veal or lamb, a piece of fat bacon, a shallot (all minced very small), parsley (also chopped), a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Work this up into the shape of a chicken, and stick into it the feet of the bird; bind it well together with egg, cover it with bread crumbs, place them on but- tered tins, and bake them. Serve either with or without gravy. CHICKENS A LA BELLEVUE. Bone two nice chickens, and fill them with a ragout made as follows :—Boil some small onions in stock till about three parts done, then stew with a little melted lard, two slices of peeled lemon, truffles, mushrooms, livers cut small, and sea- soned with pepper and salt, for about half an hour; do not use them till cold. Wrap the chickens in thin slices of bacon rubbed with pepper and salt, and add shallots and parsley; over these double paper buttered. Broil them slowly; when done wipe off the fat, and serve with sauce d la Belleviie. CHICKENS AU BLANC-MANGER. Boil I pint of cream with a bay leaf and a little coriander for a short time ; then add to it i lb. of sweet almonds beaten. When well strained beat up the yolks of 4 eggs in a little cream, and put it to the former; place it on the fire again, and keep stirring ; mix in by degrees the breast of a roasted fowl minced with beef marrow, and seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. With this blanc-manger fill two chickens boned, and sew them up; scald, and then braise them with bacon, milk, herbs, &c. When they are done prick them, that the fat may drain out; wipe, and serve them vnth sauce a la reine. CHICKENS ALA BRAISE. Take a couple of fine chickens; lard them, and season them with pepper, salt, and mace. Put a layer of veal in the bottom of a deep stewpan, with a slice or two of bacon, an onion cut in pieces, a piece of carrot, and a layer of beef ; then put in the chickens with the breasts downwards, a bundle of sweet herbs, after that a layer of beef, and a quart of broth or water. Cover it closely, and let it stew very gently for an hour. In the meantime get a ragout made thus :—Take two veal sweet- breads, cut them small, and put them into a saucepan, with a very little broth or water, a few cockscombs, truffles, and morels cut small, with an ox-palate. Stew them together, and when your chickens are done take them up, and keep them hot; strain the liquor they were stewed in, skim off' the fat, and put it into your ragout. Add a glass of red wine, a spoonful of catsup, and a few mushrooms; then boil all together, with a few artichoke bottoms cut in four, and asparagus tops. If your sauce is not thick enough put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and when properly done lay your chickens in the dish, and pour the ragout over them. Gar- nish with lemon. CHICKENS A LA BROCOLIERE. Take out all the bones except those of the legs, which must be tnissed over the breast something in the form of a chairman's strap. Give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil or butter, with some sliced lemon. Put them and the butter and lemon into a pan, with a few slices of ham and veal; cover them with bacon, parsley, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt. When these have stewed together a quar- ter of an hour put in a glass of wine, and finish. Skim and strain the sauce, thicken it with cuUis, and serve it on the chickens. CHICKENS EN CAISSE. Truss two pre- pared chickens with the legs in the body, leave on the wings, and flatten the chickens a little. Soak them in sweet oil, with parsley, scallions, shallots, and garlic, all whole, and seasoned with salt and pepper; make a case of paper, put in the chicken and the above ingredients, cover them with slices of bacon and paper, and cook them over a clear but slow fire, or in a baking- pan. When sufficiently done take out the herbs and bacon, serve them in the paper, and drop a very little verjuice on them. CHICKENS EN CAISSON. Cut the white part of two chickens into fillets, and marinate them with oil, salt, pepper, sweet herbs chopped, &c. Make some little cases of white paper, and put a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of each; lay in the fillets, strew in some truffles sliced, and moisten with coa- V[ 290 ] CHI CHI somme or stock; put the cases in a baking-pan, and bake them. When done put them on a dish with the other parts of the chickens (which must be trussed with tlie head under the skin of the breast), and pour over the whole some veal gravy and some lemon-juice. CHICKENS A LA CHEVALIERE. Choose two fat chickens, raise the white part, lard it, and heat it; then cut it up, and, having warmed some butter in a stewpan, put the pieces into it, and leave them on the fire a minute or two, and toss them (still over the fire) until they are hard; sprinkle them with flour well mi.xed with butter; add some hot stock, 4 spoonsful of well-skimmed veloute, parsley, seal lions, and pepper, and let it boil. When nearly done put in some equal-sized onions, peeled, and skim it. On serving take out the parsley, place the pieces of chicken on a dish, and strain the sauce over them, having thickened it with the yolks of 3 eggs. CHICKENS A LA CREME. Stuff and roast your chickens, and when you take them from the spit rub them with butter, cover them with bread crumbs, wrap them in slices of bacon, and bake them a short time. Serve with well- thickened cream sauce. CHICKENS, CROQUETTES OF. Re- duce 2 spoonsful of veloute or sauce tournee, and add to it the yolks of 4 eggs; put to this the white meat of a chicken minced very small, and well mixed with the sauce ; take it out, and roll it into balls about the size of a walnut; roll them in bread crumbs, giving them an elongated form; then dip them in some well-beaten egg, bread them again, and fry them of a light brown. CHICKENS WITH ENDIVE. Having picked and washed a dozen heads of endive, blanch them. When they have drained on a sieve for a few minutes rub them through it with a wooden spoon ; then let them drain again an hour or two, and stir them well into a stew- pan with a little butter. When it begins to fry add some consomme, reduce it, put some cream sauce in, and boil it till thick; then mix in the yolks of 2 eggs ; place this in the middle of the dish, and, having prepared your fillets, arrange them on the endive with bechamel sauce. CHICKENS A L'EXCELLENCE. Make a ragout as follows :—Slice a J lb. of pickled pork, and let it stand over the fire in some water till nearly done; then add to it some fat livers, truffies, shallots, and parsley chopped, whole pepper, and 1 glass of white wine; thicken with the yolks of 2 eggs. When cold put some of this under the skins of two fat chickens, and the remainder into the body; give them a turn or two in the frying-pan in some lemon-juice; then wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the meantime put some slices of bacon, ham, veal, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and a spoonful of oil into a stewpan closely covered for half an hour; then add 1 glass of white wine, the same of stock, and braise them an hour and a half; skim and strain it; put some shallots, butter, and flour to it, and serve it on tlie chickens. CHICKENS, FRICASSEED. Skin your chickens, and cut them into small pieces, after which wash them in warm water, and thoroughly dry them with a cloth; season them with salt and pepper, and put them into a stewpan with a little water, a large piece of butter, a bunch of thyme and sweet marjoram, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon pickle, a glass of wine, an anchovy, and a little mace and nutmeg. When the chickens have stewed till they are tender take them up, and lay them in your dish. Thicken your gravy with butter rolled in flour, and strain it. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and mix them with a gill of rich cream; put this into your gravy, and shake it over the fire till it is quite hot, but do not suffer it to boil. Poui- this over your chickens, and serve them up. Garnish with sliced lemon. CHICKENS, FRICASSEED (White). Skin, cut up your chickens, and lay them in warm water; then stew them till tender in water, with lemon-peel, white wine, an anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, and sweet herbs ; take out the chickens when done, strain the liquor, and put a very little of it to a ^ pint of cream, 4ozs. of butter, and a little flour; stir it over the fire till the butter be melted ; then put the chickens in again; add some grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, lemon-juice, and mushroom powder. Shake all over the fire, and serve very hot. CHICKENS, FRIED (German Way). Lay them in a marinade of lemon, parsley branches, allspice, and salt; let them lie in it an hour; drain, and shake them in a cloth with flour. When the fat is ready put them in, and give them a fine colour. Dish them upon any nice sauce, and fiy six eggs or any other garnish, and dish over them, or serve upon fried parsley. CHICKENS HISTORIES. Preimre chick- ens as for roasting, and having given them a turn or two over the fire in a little butter, with the addition of lemon-juice to preserve their whiteness, take them out and wipe them clean; peel a large onion carefully, and cut it in thin slices so as to preserve the rings, of which take two or three, dip them in the white of egg, and place them on the breasts in such forms as you may think proper; lay in these rings prepara- tions of any colour you please, basting the chicken with white of egg to make the colour adhere properly; then cover them with thin[ 291 ] CHI CHI slices of bacon, and braise them for an hour. Take off the bacon carefully, add culhs to the sauce, skim, and strain it over the chickens. CHICKENS, HORLY OF. Singe and cut up two fat chickens the same as for a fricassee; put the pieces into ajar, season them with salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, 2 bay .leaves, and the juice of 2 lemons; wash and peel a dozen large onions as nearly of the same size as can be; cut them into slices of an equal thickness, making use only of the outer skins. About half an hour before they are wanted drain your pieces of chicken, sprinkle them well with floui", and put them into a moderately heated pan. When they are of a proper colour and sufB- cienily done lay them on a clean cloth to drain ; then make your pan very hot, and, having well floured the onion rings, fry them also of a good colour; drain them on a cloth; dish the chickens en brusson, with the onions on the top and a hot aspic underneath. CHICKENS IN JELLY. Lard a couple of chickens with bacon rolled in spices and sweet herbs, and boil them with a knuckle of veal, i pint of white wine, cloves, parsley, shallots, thyme, bay leaf, and coriander. When done take out the chickens, and let them cool ; then skim and strain the liquor, and boil it a short time with a lemon sliced, and a raw egg to clarify it. When that is done strain it through a napkin. Place the chickens in a pan just hig enough to hold them, wash them over with the white of egg, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and colour them if you think proper. Let the chickens lie with the breasts downwards, and cover them with the jelly. When they are wanted place the pan a minute or two in hot water, and turn the chickens over gently. CHICKENS, MAROQUIN. Choose two fine fat chickens, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil; let them cool, and dry them thoroughly. MakeastuBBiig with the livers, truffles, streaked bacon, butter, salt, pepper, herbs, &c., all chopped small, and unite them with the yolks of two eggs ; fill the chickens with this, and put some under the thighs and ■wings ; place slices of bacon over it so that the stuffing may remain in the proper place; put two large slices of bacon over that, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them. You may serve them either with crayfish, butter, or blond. CHICKENS EN MATELOTE. Cut a couple of chickens into quarters, and put them into a stewpan lined with bacon and small onions. After they have been in a short time add to them an eel cut in pieces, a small fish, and a dozen crayfish, with salt, pepper, bay leaves, and morels; moisten the whole with equal quantities of stock and white wine ; cover the stewpan, and let it stand over a moderate fire for three hours. Place all the pieces on a dish, and garnish it with crayfish or dried crusts put alternatelv, and pour the sauce over it. CHICKENS IN A MINUTE. Cut a chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter; add to it some mushrooms, parsley, and scallions ; sprinkle flour over, and shake it; moisten it with stock or water and white wine. When it has boiled once take it from the fire, and put in the yolks of one or two eggs and a little vinegar or lemon-juice. CHICKENS WITH ONIONS. Put some slices of bacon, oil, salt, and plenty of small onions in a stewpan. When the latter are half done pour over them a pint of stock, a little white wine, fennel, parsley, &c. The whole being nearly done put in a couple of pale-roasted chickens, stew them about a quarter of an hour, and serve them with the sauce reduced. CHICKENS WITH PARMESAN. Braise a couple of chickens as usual, and when nearly done add to them some stock, white wine, cullis, and butter; season according to taste. When sufficiently done strain some of the sauce into your dish, and grate into it Parmesan cheese; place the chickens in this, and pour over the remainder of the sauce; grate more Parmesan on, and bake it. CHICKENS AND PEAS. Blanch and cut in slices ^ lb. of bacon, melt Jib. of butter, put in the bacon, and give it a little colour. When the roux is a fine white put in the cut-up chickens, with a little stock; mix it well, season it with parsley, young onions, half a clove of garlic, and a clove. Let it boil, and put in a pint or quart of peas; cook it over a strong fire with the cover off; skim; dish the fowls; if the sauce is too thin reduce. CHICKENS, PULLED. Cut off the legs, rump, and side bones of a cold chicken, and pull all the white parts into shreds without the skin; toss them up in a little cream, flour, butter, pounded mace, pepper, salt, and lemon- juice ; stir them together till the butter is melted ; then lay it in a dish, place the rump in the middle, and the legs at each end, having previously seasoned and broiled them. CHICKENS EN REDERIGOTES. Cut the chickens into quarters, and take out all the bones ; make a farce of fat livers, veal, parsley, pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; put some of this upon each limb, put several of them together, cover them ■with the same, wrap them in paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When done take off the paper very carefully, so as not to remove the farce from the chicken; place it on a hot dish, and pour blond over it. CHICKENS A LA REINE. Cut all theCHI CHI [ m ] meat from some cold roasted chickens, which may have been served before, and take out the breast bone ; mince the meat, and make it into a farce with cream, suet, grated bacon, parsley, shallots, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; unite these with the yolks of four eggs. Stuff the chickens with this as if they were whole; smooth them with a knife dipped in the white of egg; cover them with bread crumbs, and bake them. When of a nice brown colour pour sauce a la reine over, and serve. CHICKENS AU EfiVEIL. Stuff two chickens with the livers, parsley, scallions, and 2 tarragon leaves, all chopped and mixed together with butter, and, having parboiled them in a little fat or butter, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the meantime put the butter in which the chickens were parboiled into a stewpan, with 2 carrots, 2 onions sliced, garlic, cloves, thyme, and basil; stew, but do not let it be coloured ; put in a glass of white wine and another of stock; stew them together for half an hour, and then strain it. Then take some salad herbs, such as tarragon, pimpernel, chives, chervil, and cress, of each according to your taste, so as altogether to make half a handful; chop them very small, and infuse them in the above sauce on hot ashes for half an hour ; then strain it, press the herbs quite dry, and add to it a bit of butter worked with flour, salt, and pepper ; thicken, and serve it with the chickens. CHICKENS A LA ROMAINE. Lard a fine fillet of veal; make a hole at one end large enough to contain a small stuffed chicken, sew it up, and put it into a stewpan, with a few slices of veal and ham, some parsley, shallots, two cloves, basil, stock, and a little pepper; simmer it over a slow fire. When done skim and strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and spread it over the fillet of veal with a feather; then put some cullis to the remains of the glaze, straia it over the meat, and serve. CHICKENS IN SAVORY JELLY. Cut the meat of two roasted chickens into fillets the size of a shilling. Prepare some savoiy or aspic ielly by putting the whites of 4 eggs in a stew- pan, about 3 spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt; beat them up with a fork, pour in 2 quarts of good consomme, and stir it over the fire continually till it boils; then take out the spoon, and let it simmer till reduced to half. Run it gently through a jelly bag, throw in a little chopped tarragon and chen-il, and half fill a mould with the jelly. When nearly set place the chicken neatly round, and when quite set fill it up. When the whole is' quite stiff dip the mould in warm water a minute, and turn out the jelly. CHICKENS, STEWED. Half boil them in as much water as will just cover them; tTien take them out, cut them up, and take out the breast bones. Put them into your stewpan with the liquor, and add a blade of mace and a little salt; cover the pan closely, and set it over a slow fire. Let it stew till the chickens are done enough, then put the whole into your dish, and send it to table. CHICKENS STEWED WHOLE. Having trussed a pair of fine fat chickens, with the liver under one wing and the gizzard under the other, fill the inside with large oysters, secured from falling out by fastening tape round the bodies of the chickens. Put them into a tin butter- kettle with a close cover. Set the kettle into a larger pot or saucepan of boiling water (which must not quite reach to the top of Ihe kettle), and place it over the fire. Keep it boiling till the fowls are well done, which they should be an hour after they begin to simmer. Occasion- ally take off the lid to remove the scum, and be sure to put it on again closely. As the water in the outside pot boils away replenish it with more hot water from a tea-kettle that is kept boiling hard. When the fowls are stewed quite tender remove them from the fire; take from them all the gravy that is about them, and put it into a small saucepan, covering closely the kettle in which they were stewed, and leaving the fowls in it to keep warm. Then add to the gravy 2 table-spoonsful of butter rolled in flour, 2 table-spoonsful of chopped oysters, the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs minced finely, half a grated nutmeg, 4 blades of mace, and a small tea-cup- ful of cream. Boil this gravy for about five minutes. Put the fowls on a dish, and send them to table, accompanied by the gravy in a sauce-boat. This is an excellent p/ay of cooking cllicl^GTlS CHICKENS, STUFFED. Boil a pint of milk with a handful of bread crumbs until very thick. When cold beat it up in a mortar with chopped parsley and onions, thyme, a bay leaf, butter, the yolks of four eggs, pepper, and salt. Stuff two chickens with this, sew it in, and roast the chickens with rashers of bacon. Serve with the following sauce:—A bit of butter rolled in flour, some stock, vinegar, a chopped anchovy, a few capers, salt, and nutmeg, thickened over the fire. CHICKENS AND TARRAGON. Blanch some tarragon leaves for a quarter of an hour, then throw them into cold water, and when well drained chop them very small, and mix a fourth part of it with the minced livers of two chickens, a bit of butter, salt, and pepper, and stuff the two chickens, dra^vIl and trussed, with it. Put them into a stewpan with some butter, and do them up in it; then lay some bacon on the breasts, wrap them in paper, and roast them.CHI [ 293 j CHI tn the meantime put the rest of the tarragon into a saucepan, with a bit of butter worked into flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, J a glass of meat gravy, 2 spoonsful of stock, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. Thicken it over the fire, but do not boil it, lest the eggs turn. Serve this sauce over the chickens. CHICKENS AND TOMATO SAUCE. Mix together in a stewpan a little butter, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg, a sufficient quan- tity to put in two chickens ; tie it in, lay thin slices of lemon on the breast of the chickens, and lay them in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of bacon ; cover them with the same, and stew them with fire above and below for three quarters of an hour. When done drain them in a cloth ; untie them, and serve with tomato sauce. CHICKENS AND TONGUES. Boil half a dozen young chickens, a cauliflower, spinach, and six pigs' tongues peeled. Place the cauli- flower in the centre of a dish, the chickens round it, and beyond them the tongues, with the roots outward; lay the spinach in small heaps between each tongue. Garnish the whole with toasted bacon. The cauliflower should be boiled in milk and water, and kept quite whole. CHICKENS AND TRUFFLES. Wash and pare some tnxffles, and turn them over the fire with a bit of butter and i lb. of grated bacon. Fill a chicken with this mixture, and truss it so that none of the stuffing can escape. Tie a slice of bacon and some paper on the breast; roast it, and serve with truffle sauce. CHICKENS AND VEGETABLES. Cut some young and tender artickokes in quarters; take out the choke, and cut off the ends of the green leaves. Blanch, and boil them in stock with slices of lemon. When nearly done drain them, and do them up in a stewpan with some butter, parsley, scallions, shallots, stock, a little oil, salt, pepper, and fennel; reduce this sauce, and, having boiled or pale roasted two chickens, pour it over, and place the artichokes round them. Instead of artichokes the following vege- tables may be used : chards, sorrel, spinach, lettuce, cucumbers, French beans, morels, peas, or salsafy. CHILBLAINS. Small, shining, painful tumours affecting the fingers, toes, and nails. From a whitish appearance at first they in- cline to a bluish cast, attended by excessive itching. They sometimes terminate in ulcera- tion. Should they break on the palms of the hands they are called chaps; when in the heels, \ihes. The cause is exposure to cold, with sudden transition to heat. Children are those chiefly afflicted. The seat of the disorder, the shining appearance of the inflammation, together with the evident cause from whence it proceeds, will easily distinguish chilblains from any other disease. This is sometimes a transient affection ; oftenei it is of considerable duration, and, continuing during the winter, only departs when the tempe- rature becomes mild. Sudden and considerable change from cold to heat must be avoided by those liable to this complaint. The feet and hands ought to be defended with woollen coverings. The ulcerated parts may be dressed as common sores. Chilblains should be rubbed, as soon as perceived, with warm spirits of rosemary, to which a small quantity of the oil of turpentine has been added, after which pieces of soft lint, moistened with a mixture of camphorated spirits, or opodeldoc, 1| oz., and tincture of Spanish flies, 2 drachms, may be constantly applied. When the swellings break, and discharge a thin matter, or ulcerate, poultices and emollient ointments may be applied for a few days, but these should not be long used, from their apt- ness to produce proud flesh, which may be kept under by means of pressure, or occasionally touching it with the lunar caustic, or equal parts of the nitrated ointment of quicksilver and spermaceti ointment. See Ammonia (Murtate of) and Caustic. CHILDREN. The following excellent direc- tions are from the pen of the late Dr. Davis, physician to the Royal Dispensary for Children. Food and feeding. Maxim : " Ever keep in mind that it is generally right to be sparing in the quantity of food ; tor over-feeding, as well as feeding improperly, is highly injurious."—A child in health will I'equire only breast milk for four months ; but if weakly, and the mother's milk is small in quantity, it will stand in need of a small cup of beef tea daily. At the end of four months it should be fed twice a day, once with bread and milk, or biscuit powder and milk, and once with light broth and bread arrowroot, or rice. At eight or nine months it should be fed three times in twenty-four hours, and then more solid food should likewise be given daily, as a bread or rice pudding, or a boiled eas.. For an infant taken early from the breast the diet should principally consist of cow s milk warmed, and poured on bread first soaked in water, and of light broth with bread or rice. If the child has a purging the milk should be boiled. After the first year animal food in sub- stance may be given twice a week to children. To those four or five years old animal food may be allowed daily, and bread and milk night and morning. Particular care is, however, neces- sary not to give nutriment in large quantities to children who take but little exercise, or to those who are weakly, for in such an excess, or even a great variety of food, is apt to produce worms, convulsions, rickets, slow fever, scrofula, and purging. The acid change of food is a common cause of disease in children. If a /CHI [ 294 ] CHI child at the breast be repeatedly attached with the gripes and falls away, change the diet from inilli to one consisting of broths, beef tea, and light puddings; and to aid in preventing a re- turn of the gripes exercise the child well in the o])en air. In this case it will be proper, also, for the mother to live chiefly upon animal food. If this should not be effectual apply for medical assistance. In general the use of spices in children's food is to be reprobated, and in ill- ness the diet of all children should be as light as possible. In fever drinks containing nourish- ment, such as barley water, toast and water, thin mpioca, and rice water will be proper, taken cold in summer and warm in winter. In obsti- nate purgings children must have rice, arrow- root, and also hartshorn shavings boiled in beef tea, or beef tea thickened with baked flour, or sago and thick milk; and much good has been derived from putting a flannel roller round the body when the purging resists these means. Dress and dressing. Maxim: " Over clothing and clothing improperly make a child tender and subject to cold,"—A child requires fewer clothes than a grown-up person; a short shift and a flannel waistcoat tied behind, with a short petticoat sewed to it, and a short gown, rather stouter in winter than in summer, are all the body dress that a child requires; more clothes only make it tender, chilly, and subject to colds, unless it is weakly, and then a flannel shirt is sometimes useful. Until an infant reaches the seventh or eighth month it is best without shoes or stockings; neither can its petticoats be too short. The whole dress of children, whatever may be their age, should be perfectly loose and easy, so as to allow of free motion to the limbs. It is highly beneficial to expose the legs, arms, and breasts of healthy children to the open air. Exercise and sleep. Maxim: " Never prevent a child from attempting to walk, however young it may be."—When a child seeks to put its feet upon the ground let it do so, but do not force it to walk. This effort at exeicise is both plea- sant and serviceable to a child; it is proper to encourage it in this, and as it grows up regu- larly to exercise, but to avoid fatiguing it. Amuse and employ a child, but never suffer it to be still when it is right for it to be in motion and actively employed. In exercising any child, however, avoid fatiguing it, and particularly a sickly one. A weakly child ought not to be al- lowed to stand or walk long together; therefore it should be alternately carried in the arms, drawn in a vehicle, and invited to walk. The practice of placing children on the damp ground after fatiguing them with long walks cannot be too much reprobated. Until the third year most children require an hour's sleep in the middle of the day, after which they should be invarial^ly exercised till they begin to be tired, and may be put to rest at seven o'clock. In summer let them rise at six, and in winter at seven. Air. Maxim.: " It is indispensably requisite to bear without inconvenience the vicissitudes of the atmosphere."—A free and continued ex- posure to the open air is of the utmost conse- quence to children's health; the sooner infants are taken into it the faster they will thrive. In the air they grow up strong, less subject co colds, disordered bowels, convulsions, and rickets —complaints so frequent among those children who are reared in nurseries. Not only the face, but the legs, thighs, and arms should be freely exposed to the air. Even in confined streets in the populous districts of the metropolis it is of infinite service to keep the children out of doors, and the poor should set open the bed- room windows and doors of their habitations. Those children who have been properly exposed to the air from birlh may be safely exercised in it, if healthy, at all seasons. Cold bath and bathing. Maxim: " Frequent bathing is conducive to cleanliness; it imparts vigour to the muscles and nerves, and promotes alacrity and cheerfulness of mind."—In a striking manner does the cold bath preserve and promote the health of the infant race. It is proper to begin the practice of dipping in warm weather, and to continue it through every season after. The cold bath is ^aot only a serviceable applica- tion to children in health, but to those that are sickly also, especially the rickety. It may be resorted to thrice a week. A sudden dip, twice repeated each time of using the bath, will be sufficient. The more delicate and weakly re- quire the chill to be taken off the water the first and second time of going into it. If the shock of a cold bath appears too powerful for the constitution, partial bathing with salt water, or wiping the body with a sponge dipped in it, may be substituted, and is often highly useful. Sea bathing is preferred for those having the evil, that is, scrofula. Immediately after bathing let the child be wrapped in a blanket and well dried, and if it be disposed to sleep allow it to do so ; if not, it may be dressed and suffered to run about. Weakly children using the cold bath may wear a flannel shirt. Although the warm bath is rarely employed except in disease, yet both the cold and the warm bath are reme- dies against eruptions on the skin, by washing off those salt and acrid particles which are left upt,u it by perspiration. Excoriations are effec- tually obviated by frequently washing the parts of the body subject to them with cold water. Rules adapted to the infant state. 1. Use a child early to the boat or spoon—in case of[ 295 ] CHI CHI illness, or failure of milk from the breast in the mother. 2. Keep an infant dry and warm—to preserve health, promote growth, and obviate chafing. 3. Feed an infant in an upright posture—to give uniform distention to the stomach, and thus to obviate indigestion and gripes. 4. In the art of suckling it is proper to take a child frequently from the breast fpr a minute or two—to obviate too rapid a distention of the stomach, which occasions puking, or acidities. 5. Expose an infant early to the air—to strengthen and enable it to withstand colds, and to obviate purging. 6. Attend invariably to cleanliness in au infant—to prevent diseases of the skin, slow fever, rickets, and decline. 7. Let an infant's dress be loose and easy, and free from pins—to avert accidents, glandular obstructions, and impediments to growth. 8. Place an infant, when asleep, on the right side—to favour the descent of the food into the bowels, and to obviate indigestion, 9. Attend strictly to plaintive cries—by this means you may trace the first causes of illness, for a child will never cry if well and at ease. 10. Wash a strong child in cold water, and dip it thrice a week ; wash a weak one in warm water—to refresh, promote healthy perspiration, and prevent diseases of the skin. 11. Encourage a child to stretch and thrust out its limbs, and to crawl about—to teach it active habits early, to strengthen it, and promote the circulation. 12. Rub a young child night and morning all over with the hand—this exercises it, and promotes the circulation of the blood. 13. Comb a child's head, and wash it fre- quently with soap and water—to prevent scald head and painful eruptions behind the ears and on the neck. 14. If a child has cut four teeth, if it is in good health, and its bowels are regular, wean it at nine months, without any previous prepara- tion—do this to obviate numerous inconveni- ences both to the mother and child. 15. If a child has been lately weaned and is attacked with hooping cough, or any other severe disease, it may require the breast again—it will be thus supplied with the diluting nutriment ■which it would then stand in need of. Or, should a weaned child, to which is offered suit- able food, fall off in its health, decline, and pine away, it may be prudent to procure for it a good breast of mills, and to let the child suck again— to obviate an exhausting fever, which will inevitably prove fatal. N.B. Tills rule, however, must not be in- variably adopted, and ought always first to have tt physician's sanction. 16. An infant should have three or four stools daily of a bright orange colour—a devia- tion from this appearance denotes acidities and indigestion, requking the prompt interference of a physician. Rides adapted to childhood. 17. If a young child takes but little exercise give it but little solid food, increasing it in proportion to the exercise taken—to obviate thirst, fever, head- aches, and glandular obstructions. 18. Should a child's breath smell it is com- monly a symptom of a disordered stomach or of worms. Should its belly grow large, its com- plexion become pale, and skin soft, disease has already commenced. In either of these cases the child will require good open air, and not only domestic but medical management. 19. In a jit untie the clothes, raise the head, wipe away all froth from the mouth, and keep it open, pressing down the tongue, and drawing it forward at the same time. Let the child be first quickly exposed to cool fresh air, and its face sprinkled with cold water; then gently rub, with a warm hand, the belly, back, and limbs; apply a succession of warm flannels to them, or resort to a warm bath, and put warm tiles under the armpits; strike the soles of the feet smartly with a piece of flat wood; tickle the nostrils and inside of the ear with a feather or toothpick. To au infant give five drops of hartshorn in a little water; to a child two years old, ten drops in a little water. N.B. Remember, though no signs of life ap- pear, it is necessary for two hours to act up to these directions. Caution. Do not suffer the head to hang back, nor to lean forward upon the chest. Cautions adapted to infancy and childhood. 1. Never let an infant sleep alone in cold weather —for fear of suspending the breath and the circulation of the blood. 2. Never let an infant sleep the whole night on the mother's arm—for fear of suffocation. 3. Never awaken an infant out of a sound sleep by rough means-—for fear of producing fits or a purging. 4. Avoid the use of tight bandages, especially round the body—for fear of producing fits, ob- structions in the bowels, or decline. 5. Avoid giving Godfreys cordial. Daffy's elixir, or any other warm anodyne—for fear of producing fits, fever, or palsy, a common consequence of quack medicines indiscreetly given. 6. Avoid giving any quack medicine—for fear of bringing on decline or sudden death. 7. Avoid feeding infants in the night—for fear of bringing on the gripes, from over dis- tention of the stomach. 8. Avoid warm nurseries and close air—forCHI CHI [ 296 ] fear of making a child delicate, weakly, and susceptible of cold. 9. Avoid carrying a child always on the same arm—for fear of making it crooked. 10. Never confine a child's limbs by wrapping its clothes tightly round it, especially at night—■ by inaction of the muscles and retention of moisture the child will become weak and sickly. 11. Avoid exposing an infant to the open air in a cold season when its bowels are dis- ordered, or if it has shortness of breathing, with fever and cough—for fear of bringing on high inflammation. 12. Never allow a child's food to be chewed —it is not only a nasty practice, but if the nurse has a sore mouth or gums she may com- municate disease. 13. Never provoke violent laughter, nor dis- regard violent crying—for fear of a fit in either case. 14. Never wash a child with milk, with a view to heal a chafed part—milk will inflame, and cold water will heal it. CHILLI VINEGAR. This is commonly made with the foreign bird pepper; but you will obtain a much finer flavour from infusing 50 fresh red English chillies, cut in half or pounded, iu 1 pint of the best vinegar for a fortnight, or i oz. of pepper. Many people cannot eat fish without the addition of an acid and Cayenne pepper: to such palates this will be au agreeable relish. CHILLI WINE. Poimd and steep 50 fresh red chillies in ^ pint of brandy, white wine, or claret for fourteen days. Tiiis is a..bonne louche for the lovers of Cayenne, of which it takes up a larger proportion of its flavour than of its fire, which, being instantly diffused, is a very useful auxiliary to warm and finish soups, sauces, &c. CHIMNEY: To Peevent Smoking. It fre- quently happens, that the smoking of chimneys is occasioned by their being carried up narrower at the top than below, or in a zigzag form, or in angles. Indeed, in some instances this is owing to accidental causes, but, for the most part, it must be attributed to those above men- tioned. When chimneys are constructed in a pyramidal or tapering form, especially if the house be of a considerable height, there is much reason to apprehend that they will smoke ; the air of a room, being rarefied, is forced into the funnel of the chimney,- and receives from the fire an additional impetus to carry up the smoke. Thus it is evident that, as the smoke ascends, the impelling force is lessened; it moves more slowly, and consequently requires a greater pro- portion of space to circulate through; whereas, in the usual way, it has less room, from the sides of the chimney being gradually contracted. Al- though this method of constructing chimneys may not meet with general approbation, because it is supposed that, the wider a chimney is at the top, the more liberty the wind has to blow down, yet, on the other hand, it is obvious that, from the structure of the chimney and from other causes, the wind, having no resistance to overcome, must necessarily return, and thus facilitate the free egress of the smoke. In the usual manner of building pyramidal chimneys, when a current of air rushes downwards the wind and smoke are in a manner confined, and, as the resistance is less from below, the smoke bursts out into the room. Hence the reverse method before suggested has proved effectual after every other expedient had failed, and even in a house standing in the most disadvantageous situation, namely, under a lofty mountain to the southward, from which blasts were blown down upon it. A vent was carried up without angles as perpendicularly as possible, being made several inches wider at the top than at the bottom; the funnel was contracted in a throat directly above the fireplace, and widened gradually upwards. Since that time the house has not only ceased to smoke, but, when the doors stand open, the draught is so strong that it will carry a piece of paper up to the top of the chimney. The ad- vantage of erecting chimneys after this mode is so evident that we venture strongly to recom- mend its adoption; for, independently of their being exempt from smoking, and contributing to purify the atmosphere by the rapid current of air continually circulating through the apart- ment, it will prevent large quantities of soot from accumulating, and, consequently, remove every apprehension of their taking fire. Various other experiments have been made with a view to prevent or cure smoky chimneys. Of these we shall enumerate only the two fol- lowing, which deserve particular notice. The first is, not to suffer the height of the mantel to exceed one-third of that of the room, and to carry the jaumbs and breast upright at least to the ceiling, when they should be turned or sloped as easily and gradually as possible. The jaumbs from the hearth to the mantel should describe the form of a curve, and the lower part of the mantel a broad horizontal plane; the distance from the inside of »the breast to the back, on each side of the throat, being from ten to four- teen or sixteen inches, according to the size of the chinmey. This mode of reducing smoky chimneys, we are informed, has repeatedly been found successful. Another method, which is attended with but little expense, consists in setting the grate, if a Bath stove, eleven or twelve inches distant from the fender, and in cutting away the back of the chimney, so as to leave a space of two inches between the back ofCHI [ 297 ] CHI the grate and that of the chimney. If the grate be of the common form the sides should be filled lip with brickwork, and faced with Dutch tiles. By this construction the air that passes behind the back of the grate will impel the smoke with an increased velocity, and thus prevent it from bwrsting into the room. Smoky chimneys are frequently occasioned by their being so very narrow as scarcely to admit of sweeping them. This evil may be remedied by adopting the following mode, which has been used for time immemorial in Edinburgh, Glasgow, and other cities in the north, and which effectually answers the end intended. Procure a rope for the pur- pose twice the length of the height of the chim- ney, to the middle of which is to be tied a bush (of broom, furze, &c.), sufficiently large to fill the chimney. Put one end of the rope down the whole passage, and, if tliere be any windings in it a bullet or round stone is to be tied to the extremity of the rope, and the wood end of the bush introduced after the rope lias descended into the chamber, where a person must pull it downward. By the elasticity of its twigs the bush sweeps the sides of the chimney as it de- scends, and carries the soot with it. Should it be necessary for the man at the top, who has hold of the other end of the rope, to draw the bush up again, the person below must turn the latter, so as to send the wood end uppermost, before he gives notice to the assistant at the top to pull it upwards. Chimneys thus cleaned never require one-tenth part of the repairs ren- dered necessary where they are swept by chil- dren ; for, as these are obliged to work them- selves up by pressing their knees and feet on one side and their backs on the other, they not unfrequently force out the bricks that divide the chimneys. This is the chief cause why, in aiany houses of the metropolis, a fire in one apartment always fills the adjoining ones with smoke, and sometimes even the neighbouring house. Whole buildings have often been burnt down from this concealed cause, as a foul chim- ney, taking fire, communicates it by these aper- tures to empty apartments, or to such as were filled with lumber, and in which it was thought unnecessary to make any search after the fire liad been extinguished in the chimney where it first began. CHIMNEY ON FIRE. To extinguish this speedily throw two or three handsful of common salt, or one handful of flowers of sulphur, on to the fire in the grate, and keep the air from entering the fireplace as much as possible by closing the doors and windows of the room, and by holding a piece of carpet before the entrance to the chimney. The more effectually you can prevent the access of air from below, the sooner the fire in the chimney will go out. Stopping the top of the chimney is not so effective—air does not come down to the fire. CHINA : To Clean. The best material for cleaning either porcelain or glass ware is fullers' earth; but it must be beaten into a fine powder, and carefully cleared from all rough or hard particles which might endanger the polish of the brilliant surface. Soft soap will do as well as fullers' earth. For mending broken china see Cement. CHINA ALE. To 6 gallons of ale made of malt add J pint of china root thinly sliced, and the same quantity of coriander seeds bruised; hang this in a tiffany or coarse linen bag in the vessel till it has done working, and let it stand a fortnight before it is bottled. CHINA CHILD. Mince 1 pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put 2 onions, 1 lettuce, 1 pint of green peas, 1 tea-spoonful of pepper, 4 spoonsful of water, and 2 or 3 ozs. of clarified butter into a stewpan closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved add a little. CHINCO'UGH. See Cough, Hooping. CHINE. This is a thick slice cut out of the back of a large fatted hog. It is salted, and usually served with turkey. CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 1 oz. of double-refined sugar with | oz. of butter and a little water, set it by till cold, and then add to it an egg well beaten. With this make 4 ozs. of flour into a very stiff paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, lay it in a set of tins the form of a temple, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold take the paste from the tins, and join each piece together according to the proper forms with isinglass and water. The lower part, of course, ought to be stronger than the top, in order that it may sustain the weight of the whole. The pieces also must be cut as exactly as possible to the shape of the tins. CHING'S WORM LOZENGES. These consist of yellow and brown lozenges; the former are taken in the evening, the latter the suc- ceeding morning. The Yellow Lozenges. Saffron, J oz.; water, ^ pint. Boil and strain. Add calomel, ^ lb.; white sugar, ]41bs.; mucilage of traga canth as much as may be sufficient to make a mass, which roll out of an exact thickness, so that each lozenge may contain one grain of calomel. The Brown Lozenges. Calomel, 7 ozs. ; resin of jalap, lbs.; white sugar, 9 lbs.; and mucilage of tragacanth enough to make a paste. Each lozenge should contain half a grain of calomel. CHINTZ is a printed calico, having in its pattern at least five colours. Chintz furnilureCHI [ 298 ] CHO may be cleaned in the following manner without injuring the colours:—Grate raw potatoes, washed and peeled, to a fine pulp; add water in the proportion of a pint to a pound of pota- toes ; pass the liquid through a coarse sieve into a vessel, where it is to remain till the fine white starch subsides to the bottom. Pour off the clear mucilaginous liquor, which is to be used for cleaning. To perform this process spread the article to be cleaned upon a table, which should be covered with a linen cloth; dip a sponge in the potato liquor, and apply it till the dirt is removed; then wash the cloth in clean water several times. The coarse pulp which does not pass the sieve will do to clean worsted curtains, carpets, or other coarse furni- ture ; and the white starch that subsides may be employed for starching, or instead of arrow- root. Some use the whole of the pulp and water for the scouring, and others slice the potatoes, and rub them on the stuff as if it was 6oap. I It is sometimes desirable to clean the chintz without unfastening it from the chairs and sofas to which it is nailed. In such cases the follow- ing plan may be adopted:—Wash the chair and sofa covers with soap and warm water, applying it by the aid of a flannel, until all the dirt is removed from them. Whilst wet sponge the covers with a strong solution of salt in water, with a very little bullocks' gall added. Set the chairs and sofas in an airy place to dry. CHIPS, APPLE. Pare and chip the apples, boil them quickly till tender, drain them well, prepare just as much thick syrup as will cover them, boil them quickly till very clear, scald them for three or four successive days, lay them separately, and put them into a stove ; turn, and sift sugar over them. Quinces are done in the same way. CHIPS, APRICOT. Pare the apricots, and slice them very thin crosswise; lay them into the preserving pan, sifting sugar over them as they are laid in ; leave them on a very slow fire for twenty minutes, that the sugar may melt and heat about them; cover them up, leave them till the next day, and put them again on the fire till they become clear; take them up, and spread them on sieves; sift sugar over them, and put them to dry in the sun or oven. Pears are done in the same way; but they ought not to be over ripe. CHIPS, PEACH. Prepare the peaches, cut them in chips, ihake a syrup, and boil them in it till clear; set them aside till the next day, and boil them again. This must be done three or four times. Lay them on wire grills, sift sugar over them, put them in the stove till dry, and pack them in papered boxes. CHITTERLINGS. Take the large gut t)f a pig, and, after having well washed it, cut it into pieces of the length you would wish the chitterlings to be; soak the pieces in a quart of vinegar and water, mixed with thyme, bay leaf, and basil; then chop some of the basil quite small, and mix it with some finely-minced pork. Season the whole with salt, fine spices, and a single aniseed ; then fill the pieces of gut about three parts, as if quite full they will burst in cooking; tie the ends, and boil them in milk and water, throwing in some salt, thyme, bay leaves, basil, and a little flare. When done let them cool in their liquor, and then broil them. CHITTERLINGS PIE. Prepare and cook the chitterlings; mince them finely with the yolks of 6 hard eggs, i lb. of marrow, and a little rasped ham, bacon, or both; season it with white spices, lemon zest, and salt; cover a dish, and put in the meat. It may be covered with paste or crumbs; if crumbs, they must be y/eW covered with tlie yolks of eggs and butter. It is excellent simply with suet and spices; it may be made, however, as rich as sweetbreads, white meats, or any other dish of the same kind. CHITTERLINGS, VEAL. Scald a calf's chawdron and some udder about fifteen minutes, and then cut them into fillets, with 1 lb. of pickled pork. Mix these together, "and add a few chopped shallots, salt, fine spices, 4 spoons ful of cream, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Finish as CHITTKRLtNGS. CHLORIDE OF LIME is very valuable as a disinfectant, as well as for bleaching and removing the stains of fruit, wine, or other vegetable colour from white linen or cotton fabrics. Either this or the chloride of soda is the basis of " Henry's Bleaching Liquid." To destroy contagious or bad-smelling exhala- tions a little of the solution may be sprinkled upon the boards, or poured on a plate, in the place to be purified. For bleaching with it, and for removing stains the same directions apply, see Bleaching. CHOCOLATE. Chocolate is a preparation of the seeds of cacao {see Cacao), which are roasted, pounded, made into a paste, and fla- voured with sugar, vanilla, &c. It is then cast in moulds and dried. It is highly nutritious, and forms the portable soup of travellers between the tropics. The French confectioners make delicious lozenges of it, and the consumption in France, Spain, and Italy is great. {See Cacao.) This forms the common breakfast throughout Spain, and is there made by chipping a portion of the cake, and leaving the chips in water a whole night to soften. It may then be slowly warmed along with either water or milk, working it all the time with the mill, which is a small[ 299 ] CHO CHO inoveabTe pole passed through the lid of the chocolate pot, and furnished with a headpiece, in order to mix the chocolate equally by turning the mill rapidly between the hands and without intermission, thus to prevent its becoming clotty, Care, however, should be taken not to let it boil, for in that case the vegetable oil which is con- tained in the nut will be extracted from it, and appear on the surface. The flavour is better retained by making it in water than milk. Do not grate it, but cut the quantity for each cup into two or three pieces. To 1 oz. of choco- late put li oz. of boiling water ; boil it over a brisk fire, and reduce it to a thii'd; put this third into good cream, but do not boil it again. It is useless to stir it more than two or three times during the boiling. Chocolates which contain any farina and much sugar are heavy and unwholesome. CHOCOLATE : To Make (1). According as you wish to make this beverage either with milk or water, put a cup of one or the other of these liquids into a chocolate pot, with 1 oz. of cake chocolate. Some persons dissolve the chocolate in a little water before they put it into the milk. As soon as the cream or water begins to boil mill it. When the chocolate is dissolved and begins to bubble take it off the fire, letting it stand near it for a quarter of an hour; then mill it again to make it frothy; afterwards serve it out in cups. CHOCOLATE: To Make (2). Simmer the chocolate on a slow fire in the proportion of 2 ozs. to each cup; stir it about a good deal with the chocolate mill, and when it is properly dis- solved and thickened add the yolk of 1 egg beat up to the proportion of four cups, or the whites equally beat up and the firs'-, froth thrown away; mix it first with a little of tht, chocolate, which add to the rest, and mill it very well to incorpo- rate together; this will make it of a proper con- sistence and of a proper froth. It is best made a day or two before using. If you keep it ready made any time boil it a moment every other day; sweeten it according to taste. CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take lib.of chocolate finely g-rated, and Hlb. of the best sugar finely sifted; soak some gum dragon in orange-flower water, and work them into what form you please; the paste must be stiff; dry them in a stove. You may write devices on paper, roll them up, and put them in the middle. CHOCOLATE BISCUITS. Take Jib. of chocolate, and put it on a tin over a stove to make it warm ; then put 1 lb. of powder sugar in a basin, and when the chocolate is quite warm and soft put it in with the sugar, and mix it well with the whites of about 8 eggs. If you find it too thin add some more powder sugar to bring it to a paste, so that you can roll it into lumps the si^e of walnuts; let yonr oven be of a moderate heat; put three papers under them, let the oven just raise and make them crisp and firm, and let them be quite cold before you take them from the paper. CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGER. The day before you want the blanc-manger take 4 calves' feet, singed but not skinned, and 8 or 10 pigs' feet ; boil them slowly, with, frequent skimming, in 4 quarts of water till the meat drops from the bones ; then strain the liquid through a sieve into a broad tin pan, cover it, and set it away in a cold dry place. Next day it should be a solid cake of clear jelly. Then scrape off all the fat and sediment, cut the jelly into small bits, put it into a porcelain pre- serving pan, and melt it over the fire. Have ready 6 ozs. or more of cacao or chocolate that has been scraped finely, and melted over the fire in a pint of boiling cream, with 6 ozs. of powdered loaf sugar. When the chocolate, cream, and sugar have boiled together five minutes, after coming to a boil mix them with the melted jelly, and let the whole come to a boil again; then boil them together five minutes more, stirring it occasionally. Next put it into moulds that have been set all night in col(? water. Do not wipe the moulds, but leave them damp. Stir their conteiits well, and when the blanc-manger is thickening so that it is hai'd to stir set the moulds on ice, or place them in the cellar in pans of cold water. When the blanc-manger is quite congealed and is very firm turn it out of the moulds, first setting them in lukewarm water, and serve it up on china dishes. CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put Jib. of chocolate over a fire to dissolve it, and, having boiled 2 lbs. of sugar to forte perle, put a spoon- ful or two into the chocolate, stir it till it forms a thin paste, then pour it on the sugar, and boil both together to caramel. In the meantime melt a little butter, skim, and pour it off clear into a basin; lake a spoonful of it, and rub it with your hand over a marble slab or table; on this pour the chocolate and sugar; then take two ends of a sword-blade, one in each hand, and press lines an inch apart all down it; cross then in like manner, so as to mark the sugar in small squares all over, doing it as quickly as posbible, lest the sugar should cool before you have done; then pass the sword-blade between the marble and the sugar, and lay under the latter sheets ol paper ; when cold break it into pieces according to the marks, and wrap each square in paper. CHOCOLATE BOUCHfiES (Ladies'). Make your ladies' bouchees as directed (see that article}, but lay them rather more of an oval form. When baked take them from the papers.[ 300 ] CHO CHO Put 2 ozs. of very fine sugar, sifted, and 8 ozs. of chocolate, grated, into a pan with the whites of 1^ eggs ; stir it with a silver spoon for eight or ten minutes, and, having filled the bouchees with marmalade, mask them with this mixture. As you do them strew crystallised sugar over them, and place them carefully on a baking plate covered with paper. When all are done put them in the oven for five or six minutes, and serve them when cold. CHOCOLATE CAKES. Grate 3 ozs. of vanilla chocolate, and mix it with ^ lb. of sifted sugar, diluted with a little white of egg. Pre- pare and finish your calces as directed. CHOCOLATE WITH CHEESE. Whip 1^ pint of rich cream. Melt Jib. of chocolate that you have previously rasped or pounded; add a little water to it. Wlien melted mix with it a little isinglass and a little sugar ; then mix that with the whipped cream ; fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Do not neglect to whip it over ice till you find the mixture begins to freeze ; then put it into the mould, and sur- round it with ice. CHOCOLATE CHEESE (Bavarian). Dis- solve ^ lb. of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water, and boil it for five minutes, stir- ring constantly. When perfectly dissolved add a glass of good cream (also boiling), 6 ozs. of powder sugar, and 6 drachms of clarified isin- glass. When well mixed strain it off into a bol in ice; stir it with a silver spoon, and, as soon as it begins to take, mix some Chantilly cheese, and finish as usual. CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take 2 ozs. of chocolate, and beat it small with a little warm water over the fire. When it is dissolved and reduced to a paste pour it upon 1 lb. of masse- pain, or sweet paste, to which add some cinna- mon or vanilla at discretion. Mix the whole well together, then spread it over some wafer shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. If the paste does not appear deep-coloured enough you may colour it with bolus Armeniacum. CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. Dissolve 2ozs. of good chocolate in a little water; put it into a skillet, with i lb. of sugar boiled to perle. Keep the sugar stirring, and when it boils put the conserve into moulds. CHOCOLATE CKEAM (1). Scrape down i lb. of the best chocolate; put it into a marble mortar; pour on by degrees as much boiling water as will dissolve it, and beat it well for about a quarter of an hour; then sweeten it with 4 table-spoonsful of powdered loaf sugar. Add gradually pint of rich cream. Mill it with a chocolate mill or a little tin churn, or beat it hard with rods. As the froth rises take it off, and lay it on the inverted bottom of a sieve that is placed in a deep pan. When done take the liquid that has drained through the sieve, and put a portion of it in the bottom of each glass ; then fill the glasses with the froth, heap- ing it high on the top, and set it in a cool dry place till wanted. CHOCOLATE CREAM (2). Boil a vaniUa bean in | pint of milk till the flavour is well extracted : then take out the bean, wipe it dry, and put it away. It may be used a second time for a slight vanilla flavouring. Scrape down J lb. of excellent chocolate, and mix it with the vanilla milk. Put it into a chocolate pot or a saucepan, and pour on it H pint of rich milk. Set it on a fire or on a bed of hot coals, and boil it slowly, stirring it till the chocolate is entirely dissolved and thoroughly incorporated with the milk. Beat 6 eggs very light, and stir them gradually into the mixture, continuing to stir, lest it should curdle. When the egg is all in, and it begins to boil up, take it off, and when cool enough transfer it to glasses, or to a bowl. CHOCOLATE CREAM (French). Dissolve J lb. of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water over a slow fire ; then pour into it, one at a time, the yolks of 8 eggs; add ^ lb. of sugar and 4 glasses of boiling milk. Stir it constantly over a moderate fire till the cream thickens, then boil it up once, and strain it. When nearly cold add 6 drachms of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. CHOCOLATE CREAM (Whipped). Dis- solve i lb. of the best chocolate in i glass of boiling water over a moderate fire; then let it cool. Add to it J lb. of powder sugar, and mix it with whipped cream. CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take li lb. of chocolate, put it on a pewter sheet or plate, and set it in the oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put it into a copper stewpan, with f lb. of powder sugar. Mix it weU over the fire ; take it off, and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles. Put them on white paper, and, when they are all on, take the sheet of paper by each corner, and lift it up and down so that the paper may touch the table each time, and by that means you will see the drops come quite fat, about the size of a sixpence. Put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are on the paper; then shake them off, and you will see all the chocolate drops covered with sugar nonpareils. Let them stand till cold, and they will come off well; then put them in a box papered. CHOCOLATE FLOATING ISLAND. Take the whites of 2 eggs, and mLx them with 2 ozs. of chocolate scraped. Pile it on a thin custard or jelly. CHOCOLATE FROTHED. Put ilh. of chocolate to a glr^s of water over a slow fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon until perfectlyCHO [ 301 ] CHO dissolved ; then take it off, and add 6 yolks of eggs, 1 pint of double cream, and f lb. of powder sugar. Pour the whole into a pan, and when cold whip it up as directed. CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. Take any quantity of chocolate, and melt it over the fire in a small pan. When melted pour it into that in which you are going to make the cream; break your yolks of eggs into it (4 eggs to every pint of cream); add some pounded loaf sugar over it; keep stirring continually. Add your cream little by little, stining and turning it till the whole is mixed properly together ; set your pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon till you see your composition is nearly boil- ing ; then take it off immediately, for, from the moment you set your composition over the fire till that it offers to boil, it has time to in- corporate well and thicken sufficiently without need of boiling, and should you let it boil you would risk the turning of your cream into whey on account of the yolks of eggs, which would do too much. Take great care, likewise, that your cream is fresh and sweet, for otherwise as soon as warm it will turn into curds and whey; there- fore be careful. Stir it continually from the time you set it on the fire till you take it off; then put it in the sahotiere to make it congeal after the usual manner. CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 3 ozs. of chocolate, warm it, and mix with it ^ gill of syrup and ^ pint of water ; mix it well, and freeze it thickly. CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Put i lb. of chocolate on a tin plate over a coal fire, and when it is dissolved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoonful or two of sweet almond paste made as for macaroons, stir it in well, and then pour it on the remainder of the almond paste, in which you have mixed a tea-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon or vanilla, or both ; beat them together well in a mortar, lay them on paper, and bake them for three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. CHOCOLATE WITH MILK OR WATER. Divide 1 lb. of chocolate into twelve parts ; take as many parts as you wish to make cups of chocolate; put it into a chocolate pot, with an equal number of cups of water; let your chocolate dissolve, mill it, and then put your chocolate pot on a gentle fire; let it boil slowly, keeping it constantly stirring; immediately before it is served mill it. To make chocolate with milk you must divide your pound of chocolate into sixteen parts. CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. For 4 bottles of brandy take 1 lb. of the best chocolate, and chip it in small bits; add a little salt, 2 cloves, and a little cinnamon. You must infuse all in the brandy, with 2 bottles and 1 pint of water, and whites of eggs; then filter it through paper. CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a little chocolate, which put in a pan over the fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon ; when it is melted take \ lb. of loaf sugar pounded in a mortar and sifted, which dissolve in a little clear water. When that is done put in your chocolate. If you find the paste too thick add a little water, enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity that you may take it up on a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a sixpence; let them dry natural!} in a cupboard, and wnen dry take them off the papers and put them in boxes. CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. Melt |- oz. of gum dragon in a little water till it is quite dissolved and thick; sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a mortar with a quarter part of white of egg, a chocolate cake bruised, and ^ pint of fine powder sugar mixed by degrees, and adding either more or less sugar according as the paste is malleable : it must be pretty firm. Form it into what flowers or designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any kind of corn or beans, &c. CHOCOLATE PUFFS. . Take i lb. of chocolate, grated, and 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, beat finely and sifted, with the whites of 2 eggs; make a paste, and have ready some more sugar to strew on the tins ; turn the rough side upwards, and bake them in a slow oven. You may form the paste into any shape, and colour it with different colours. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. Take i lb. of chocolate, which cut as small as you can, and melt it on the fire in a little water. When it is entirely melted throw it into the souffle pre- paration. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE (Petit). Having grated \ lb. of chocolate, put it on a sheet of paper, and lay it at the opening of the oven for five minutes. In the meanwhile dilute 6 ozs. of sifted sugar with the white of 1 egg; then add to it the chocolate. When the mixture is very firm add a little more white of egg, and conclude your operation in the usual way. CHOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. Take 2 ozs. of chocolate, and break it into a little warm water ; put it on the fire, and when quite dissolved mix it with I lb. of marchpane paste, to which may be added vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up well, then spread it on wafer paper in what forms you please, and bake them in a moderate oven. If the sweetmeats be not suffi- ciently dark coloured add a little bole ammoniac. CHOCOLATE TART. Put 2 spoonsful of fine flour in a stewpan, with the yolks of 6 eggs; reserve their whites, mix these with some milk, add \ lb. of rasped chocolate, with a stick ofCHO [ 30!2 J CHO cinnamon, some sugar, a little salt, aud some rasped green lemon-peel; let them be a little time over the fire, after which put in a little preserved lemon-peel cut small, and, having tasted whether it has a fine flavour, let it cool. When cold mix this with the reserved whites of eggs, and beat up to a froth. When you use it put it into patty pans, and put either puff or tart paste over them. Ice, and bake in a moderate oven. CHOCOLATE WINE. Take 1 pint of sherry, or 1^ pint of port, 4J ozs. of chocolate, 6 ozs. of fine sugar, and ^ oz. of white starch or fine flour; mix, dissolve, and boil all these together for about ten or twelve minutes; but if jour chocolate is made with sugar take double the quantity of chocolate and half the quantity of sugar. CHOLERA MORBUS. This is a violent purging and vomiting of bilious matter, attended with gripes, sickness, and a constant desire to go to stool. It comes on suddenly, and is most common in autumn. There is hardly any dis- ease that kills more quickly than this when proper means are not used in due time for removing it. In warm climates it is met with at all seasons of the year, and its occurrences are very fre- quent ; but in England and other cold climates it is apt to prevail most during the autumnal months, when there is excessive heat, or sudden transitions from heat to cold ; and the violence of the disease has usually been observed to be greater in proportion to the intenseness of the heat—circumstances which induce the belief that cholera morbus is the effect of a warm atmosphere producing some change in the state of the bile, which may consist either in the matter of the bile being rendered more acrid, or its secretion being preternaturally increased. In some instances the disease has been observed to proceed from an obstructed perspiration, and food that passes readily into the acetous fer- mentation, &c., though these causes might not give rise to it without the predisposition acquired by preceding great heat, succeeded by sudden transitions of cold, particularly in the evenings. It is occasioned by a redundancy and putrid acrimony of the bile; food that easily turns rancid or sour on the stomach, as butter, bacon, sweetmeats, cucumbers, melons, cherries, and other cold, unripe fruits. It is sometimes the effect of sti'ong acrid purges or vomits, or of poisonous substances taken into the stomach. It may likewise proceed from violent passions or affections of the mind, as fear, anger, &c. It is generally preceded by heartburn, sour eructations, and flatulencies, with pain of the stomach and intestines. To these succeed uausea, excessive vomiting, and purging of green, yellow, or blackish-coloured bile, witb distention of the stomach and violent griping pains. There is likewise a great thirst, with a very quick and unequal pulse, and often a fixed acute pain about the region of the navel. As the disease advances the pulse often sinks so low as to become quite imperceptible; the ex- tremities grow cold or cramped, and are often covered with a clammy sweat; the urine is obstructed, and there is a palpitation of the heart. Violent hiccuping, fainting, and con- vulsions are the signs of approaching death. At the beginning of this disease the eflbrts of nature to expel the offending cause should be assisted by promoting the purging and vomiting. For this purpose the patient must drink freely of diluting liquors, as whey, butter milk, warm water, thin water-gi'uel, barley water, linseed tea, or, what is perhaps preferable to any of them, very weak chicken broth. This should not only be drunk plentifully to pi'omote the vomiting, but a clyster of it given every hour in order to promote the purging. In addition to these means flannel cloths wrung out in a warm decoction of poppy-heads slightly bruised, with the addition of about one-fourth of the spirit of camphor, may be applied to the region of the stomach, renewing them as often as they become cold, or opium in the form of an external embrocation. Take spirit of cam- phor, I oz.; tincture of opium, 1 oz. Make an embrocation, to be frequently rubbed over the seat of the stomach. After these evacuations have been continued for some time a decoction of toasted oat bread may be drunk to stop the vomiting. The bread should be toasted till it is of a brown colour, and afterwards boiled in spring water. If oat bread cannot be had, wheat bread, or oatmeal well toasted, may be used in its stead. If this does not put a stop to the vomiting, 2 table- spoonsful of the saline julep, with 10 drops oi laudanum, may be taken every hour till it ceases. The vomiting and purging, however, ought never to be stopped too soon. As long as these discharges do not weaken the patient they are salutary, and may be allowed to go on, or rather, ought to be promoted. But when the patient is weakened by the evacuations, which may be known from the sinking of his pulse, &c., re^ course must immediately be had to opiates, as recommended above, to which may be added strong wines, with spirituous cinnamon waters and other generous cordials, or large doses of diluted sulphuric acid, which is said to abate the irritation of the stomach more readily than even opium. Warm negus, or strong wine whey, will likewise be necessary to support the patient's spirits and promote the perspiration.[ 303 1 CHO CUD His legs should be bathed in warm water, and afterwards rubbed with flannel cloths, or wrapped in warm blankets, and warm bricks applied to the soles of his feet. The application of a blister to the stomach will sometimes put a stop to the vomiting. In very severe cases the external application of nitric acid has been suggested as a counter- irritant, as a considerable time may elapse before the blister begins to irritate—a practice that has been adopted in that aggravated form of the disease developed in Hindostan. When the violence of the disease is over, to prevent a relapse it will be necessary for some time to continue the use of small doses of laudanum. Ten or twelve drops may be taken in a glass of wine at least twice a day for eight or ten days. The patient's food ought to be nourishing, but taken in small quantities; and lie should use moderate exercise. As the Etouiach and intestines are generally much weakened an infusion of the bark or other bitter in small wine, sharpened with the elixir of vitriol, may be drunk for some time. Take tincture of gentian, 1 drachm; infusion of cas- carilla, l|-oz. Make a draught, to be taken three times a day. CHOLODRl'CE, or Iced Soup. Boil 1 quart of the juice of mainnated cucumbers with sufficient dough to make a paste; when it is cold stir into it 1 quart of curded milk. Boil also in water a young beet-root chopped finely, and put it into the above soup with some -of its liquor to colour it; cut 4 hard-boiled eggs into slices, and chop finely some chives and fennel, some meat of crayfish, and slices of cucumber. Serve this soup without bread, but with pieces of ice in it. You may leave out the beet-root, and use instead chopped sorrel stewed in butter. CHOPS. See Lamb, Mutton, and Pork. CHOUCROUTE. Put some shred cabbage in a pan, and sprinkle it with the seeds of fennel, cumin, a few juniper berries, and salt; add a little vinegar, and set the whole in a stove. CHOUX. Put 1 pint of water into a stew- pan, with I lb. of fresh butter, the rinds of 2 lemons grated, \ lb. of sugar, and a very little salt. As soon as the water begins to boil add as much flour as the liquor will imbibe. When the paste becomes very thick keep stirring it with a spoon until it is quite done, and then let it cool. After that break into it a sufficient number of eggs to make the paste soft, taking care that it be firm enough to allow you to work it up with the hand, when it may be formed according to fancy. This paste may be glazed, and garnished either with almonds or pistachio nuts. When baking the choux be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. CHOUX A LA DARTOTSE. Proceed as abo,-e, but instead of flour put in the yolka of 6 eggs and the whites of 3 eggs; then add the pounded ratafia, some orange flowers, and 1 gill of warm cream. When all these ingredients are well mixed together drop them in lengths about the size of a finger; egg, and bake them. Before they are entirely done sift a little sugar over them, and when quite done glaze them with a salamander. Serve them hot. CHOUX A LA MECQUE. Put 2 glasses of milk and 2 ozs. of fresh butter into a stew- pan, making them into a paste with a proper quantity of flour. Having dried it a few minutes, add 2 ozs. more of butter and half a glass of milk, and dry it again a little. Take it from the stewpan, and stir into it 2 eggs and 2 ozs. of powder sugar. When well mixed together add 9 more eggs, 1 spoonful of whipped cream, and a grain of salt; lay the choux in a spoon about three inches long, dorez aul mask them with sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. These choux may be flavourei according to taste with orange, lemon, cedrat, &c., by grating either of these fruits on the sugar employed in naaking them. CHOVVDER. Lay some slices cut from the fat part of a belly piece of pork in a deep stew- pan ; mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the pork; bone and cut a fresh cod into thin slices, and place them on the pork; then put a layer of pork, and o:i that a layer of biscuit; then alternately the other materials, until the pan is nearly full; season with pepper and salt, and put in about 1^ pint of water. Lay a paste over the whole; cover the stewpan very closely, and let it stand, with fire above as well as below, for four hours; then skim it well, and place it in a dish; pour a glass of Madeira, made hot, over it; also some Jamaica pepper, stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters. Brown the paste lightly, and lay it over the whole. CHUB, BOILED. Put as much beer, vinegar, and water into a fish-kettle as will cover the fish, a good quantity of salt, and some fennel. Scald and cleanse a chub, and when the water boils put in the fish. When it is sufficiently boiled lay it on a board to drain, and let it lie for an hour. Put it into a pewter dish over a chafing-dish of coals, with melted butter, and serve it very hot. CHUB, BROILED. Scald a chub, cut off the tail and fins, wash it well, and slit it down the m.iddle; make two or three cuts on the back with a knife, and broil it on a wood fire. Baste it all the time it is broiling with fresh butter, salt, and thyme shred finely. CHUB, ROASTED. Scale and thoroughly[ 304 ] CID CIN cleanse a chub. Wash it, staff it with sweet herbs, and then tie it to the spit with splinters. Roast it; keep basting it with vinegar and butter well seasoned with salt. CIDER. See Cyder. CINCHONA. See Baeks. CINDERS. Great waste of fuel occurs if these are not looked after. They should be sifted from the mere ashes of the grate, and be mixed with an equal portion of small coal. Com- bined they make an excellent fuel. An excellent cinder sifter for housemaids is made like a slop- pail with a sieve inside. For the parlours and bedrooms this may be employed, prevent- ing much dust and trouble, for the sifting is done in the room where the cinders are formed. Cinder or Dust-hole. This, whether large or small, ought, if possible, to have a northern exposure, and always to be furnished with a door, which ought to fit so tightly as to exclude smells. Attached to every dwelling there ought properly to be two dust or refuse holes, one for vegetable and animal matters, dust, ashes, &c., which are convertible into manure, and another (which may always be of much smaller size), for broken earthenware, glass, stones, &c., which are of no use, except for the bottoms of roads or walks, or for grinding into powder, to be used for forming Roman cement or anticorrosion paint. Bones, also, should, if possible, be kept apart in every house, because, when broken and fer- mented, they make a most valuable manure. As few materials thrown into the dust-hole pro- duce more offensive and dangerous smells than recent bones, from the decomposing animal matter remaining on their surface, wherever it is determined to keep them apart it will be well to throw some sifted ashes from the fireplaces of the house in along with them, because the ashes, by absorbing the decomposing matter, prevent it from giving out an offensive smell. In whatever way the dust, ashes, bones, and vegetable refuse of a house are kept, as little moisture as possible ought to be admitted with them, as this promotes putrefaction. See Ash-pit. CINNAMON, CANDIED. See Candied Cinnamon. CINNAMON, CONSERVE OF. Bruise 4 drachms of cinnamon, and dilute it with a little clarified sugar or syrup of mallows. Boil 2 lbs. of sugar to petite casse, throw in the cinna- mon, and stir it well; then take it from the fire, and when the sugar begins to whiten pour the conserve into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. CINNAMON DRAGfiES (Common). Infuse ^Ib. of gum dragon in as much water as will cover it. The next day put the infusion into a mortar, stir it well with a pestle, and Ihe longer it is stirred the whiter it will beoome. In rather more than a quarter of an hour add to it the caked sugar which was removed from the preserving pan, and which must be well pounded and sifted; also 1 lb. of powder sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and by degrees 2 or '6 lbs. of flour; moisten the whole occasionally with water. When the paste is of a proper con- sistence place it on a slab or pasteboard, knead it well for a short time, roll it out in sheets not thicker than the eighth of an inch, cut it into slits the same size as the cinnamon, and put them on a paper or sieve in a warm place for some days; then boil some common sugar to perle, and sugar the slips of paste as above directed. Instead of the fine powder, flour is sufficient until the last two layers, when the pow- der may be used to give them whiteness. When of the requisite size lay them on sieves to dry. In a few days they may be curled and coloured, which is done in the same manner as coriander seeds. Observe fine-sugared cinnamon is always white. CINNAMON DRAGfiES (Sugared). Soak i lb. of the best cinnamon (in stick) for twelve hours in water to soften it; at the end of that time cut it into slips, and lay them on a sieve in a warm place for some days. When quite hard and dry boil some fine sugar to the degree grande perle; have ready a quantity of fine pow- der, pour over it one or two large spoonsful of the syrup, and shake it so that all the cinnamon may be wetted; then take a handful or two of the powder, and strew it over the wet cinnamon; shake it again, that the powder may adhere to the cinnamon. After this swing the pan back- wards and forwards, by which means the cinna- mon rolls about in every direction; continue this motion till it becomes dry; then moisten and powder them as before. Swing the pan again, and when dry repeat the process a third, fourth, and fifth time, or more, until the cinnamon is of a proper thickness; those which are to be twisted or curled should not be so thick as the others. Be equally particular in removing the sugar, as it cakes to the bottom of the pan. CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in highly rectified spirits of wine, in the proportion of ^ drachm of the former to 1 oz. of the latter. CINNAMON ICE. Infuse some cinnamon in hot water for an hour, and give it a boil; add to the infusion a pint of water and i lb. of sugar. Stir them well together, then put it into the sahotiere, and surround it with ice and salt. Stir it with a flat pewter spoon till it begins to freeze, then put the mixture into your mould, and keep it in ice till ready to serve. CINNAMON PARFAIT AMOUR. ForCIN [ 305 ] CIT 4 bottles of brandy you must take 4 ozs. of cin- namon of the best quality, 30 cloves, 13 corian- der seeds, and a little salt, mixed together in brandy; let them infuse for eighteen hours ; you are to take from the still as much as you can, 2i: lbs. clarified in 2| bottles of water, with the whites of 2 or 3 eggs well beaten together, mixed with the spirit, and filtered through blotting- paper. After you have mixed the spirit take care to cork your bottles well. CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve ioz. of gum dragon in a glass of water, strain it through a lawn sieve into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of a proper consistence. Form it into such figures as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. Keep them in a dry place. CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 1 lb. of marchpane paste, and dilute it with as many whites of eggs as will make it spread easily with a knife. Add to this a spoonful or two of prepared bole ammoniac, which will give it a fine red tinge, and -I oz. of cinnamon powder. When all these ingredients are well mixed cut some wafer paper into such forms as you may think proper, and lay them on the paste about the thickness of the eighth of an inch. Place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done they may be finished in the following manner: — Boil some sugar in orange-flower water to la plume, and, as you take the sweet- meats from the oven, dip a hair pencil into the syi'up, and brush them over. This dries almost immediately, and considerably improves the look of them. CINNAMON, SYRUP OF. Put 5 ozs. of good cinnamon into a previously heated glass cucurbit, or any delft or earthenware vessel capable of resisting fire; pour into it 2 lbs. or a quart of nearly boiling water; close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours. At the end of that time draw off the infusion without expressing the cinnamon ; add to it 2 lbs. of sugar coarsely pounded, and boil the whole to grande perle; then take it from the fire, and when about half cold the flavour may be improved by the addition of a few drops of spirit of cinnamon. CINNAMON TINCTURE. Bruise 3 ozs. of fine cinnamon, and pour on it a quart of the best brandy. CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and sift 6 ozs. of sugar, and put it with an equal quan- tity of melted fresh butter, the same of flour, i oz. of powdered cinnamon, and a small egg. Stir these up in an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but not too clear paste. Make an iron plate quite hot, rub it well with butter, and lav on it a spoonful of the paste. Fry it, and when brown on both sides roll it over the hot iron round a small stick; do this until all the paste is used. CINNAMON WATER. Bruise 2 lbs. of good cinnamon, and steep it, with J lb. of citron and orange-peel, and \ oz. of coriander seeds, in 3 gallons of Malaga sack for two days ; then distil it. Dissolve sugar in rose water; put it to the cinnamon water, and bottle it. CITRATE OF POTASS. Take carbonate of potass, \ oz. and 4 scruples; citric acid, ^oz.; sugar, 2 drachms ; essence of lemon, 2 drops. Mix the above well in a mortar, and keep it dry in a bottle. Thirty grains in a glass of water will make a pleasant beverage. CITRIC ACID is the cause of the grateful sourness in the orange and lemon. One ounce of the crystals dissolved in 1 pint of water is about equivalent to I pint of lemon juice: the solution, however, if kept, is liable to spontaneous decomposition. The following table of equivalents may be found of practical use:— Equivalent Proportions of Concrete Citric Acid and Lemon, Juice necessary for the Neutralisation of Al- kaline Sails. Citric Acid. Lemon Juice, a scrotle of Alkalies. 10 grs. 15 grs. 25 gra. 3 fluid drachms 4 fluid drachms 7 fluid drachms 4 Carbonate of \ Potass 5 Sub - Carbonate i of Potass < Sub - Carbonate \ of Ammonia The juices of many other fruits besides the lemon and lime will furnish the citric acid in abundance, and may be obtained from them by a similar process ; e.g., Vacciiiium oxycoccus, the cranberry; Primus padus, the bird-cherry; Dulcamara solatium, the berry of the night- shade ; Cynosbatus, or Rosa canina, the hip, or fruit of the wild brier. There are many plants whose juices contain combinations of the citric and malic acids in considerable abundance, such as Fragaria vesca, the wood strawberiy, and the common raspberry; Ribes riibrum, the red gooseberry; Vaccinium myriillus, the bil- berry ; Gratccgus aria, the hawthorn; Prunus cerasus, the black cherry, &c. This fact is interesting, since the juices of such fruits have been long known to possess the property of dissolving the tartareous incrustations on the teeth. Lemonade powder is made by mixing very exactly, by rubbing in a mortar, 32 grains of citric acid with 1000 grains of fine loaf sugar which has been previously pounded and sifted through a tamis sieve. Two drops of essential oil of lemons should be incorporated with the powdered sugar before this is mixed with theI 306 ] CIT CIT acid. If any quantity is made it must be kept in a well-corked, dry bottle, in a dry, -warm place. CITEINE OINTMENT is one of the most effectual of applications for curing the inflam- mation and ulceration occurring so commonly about the roots of the eyelashes, and along the edge of the eyelid. A little of the ointment should be warmed and rubbed at bedtime well about the roots of the eyelashes, either by the point of the finger or by means of a camel's hair brush. It is really a nitrate of mercury ointment, and is prepared by dissolving 1 drachm of mercury in 2 drachms of nitric acid, and then mixing and beating together in a glass mortar this solution with 9 drachms of olive oil and 3 drachms of hog's lard which have been previously melted together. CITRON, AMERICAN. Pare a sufficient number of citron melons, and cut each melon into four thick quarters. Weigh them, and put them overnight into a tureen, or a large white- ware pan or basin. Prepare some very weak brine, allowing a table-spoonful of salt to a quart of water for every pound of citron. Pour the salt and water over the citron, cover it, and let it stand all night to draw out the sliminess. Prepare some alum water, allowing to each quart of water a bit of alum about the size of a grain of Indian corn. In the morning drain the citron from the brine, and wash every piece in alum water, which will green and clear it. After it has lain half an hour in the alum water drain the citron, and put it into a porcelain preserving kettle, allowing for every 4 lbs. of citron a large i pint of clear fresh water. There must be water enough to cover the citron and keep it from burning. Add to every 4 lbs. the yellow rind of a large lemon, grated or pared off very thin, and cut into shreds. Set the kettle over a clear fire, and boil it slowly till the citron is tender enough to be easily pierced through with a large needle; if it seems to be boiling dry add a little more cold water. When all are quite tender take out each piece sepa- rately with a fork, spread them out on a large dish, then strain and measure the liquid, and to each pint allow 1 lb. of the best double- refined loaf sugar; not the sugar that is sold ready powdered, as this is so adulterated with ground starch that it has little or no strength, and sweetmeats made with it are sure to spoil unless four times the usual quantity is put in. Having broken up the loaf sugar add it to the liquid in the preserving kettle, and let it boil, skimming it well, till it becomes a thick, rich, jelly-like syrup. It will most probably be boiled Bufliciently in half an hour. Next put in the pieces of citron one at a time, and boil them ten minutes or more in the syrup till it has thoroughly penetrated them. Afterwards take out the citron, spread it on a dish to cool, and transfer the syrup to a large pitcher. When cold put the citron into glass jars, and pour the syrup over it. Cover the tops with white paper dipped in brandy, and tie closely over each another covering of bladder that has been pre- viously soaked in water. The covers of lac- quered tin that belong to glass jars seldom fit perfectly tight, and are not to be trusted without another covering over them. This will be found a very fine sweetmeat. To dry it in imitation of foreign citron select some of the finest pieces, spread them on a dish, and set them for three days in the hot sun, turning each piece several times a day. Then make a hole near the end of each piece, run a twine string through them, and hang them on lines across an open sunny window. When sufficiently dry put them in tight jars or boxes, and keep them for use as citron in cakes or mince pies. Preserved citron may be candied after it has been five or six months in the syrup by taking out the pieces, spreading them on a dish, and boiling the syrup again till it is as thick as possible. It may require some additional sugar. Then pour it on the citron, and when it has grown cold, and has dried on the pieces, put them into a jar. When giving the citron its first boiling in the lemon-peel and water you may add to every 4 lbs. of citron ^ oz. of ginger root (if green and teniSer it will be better), or else a few pieces of preserved ginger. To increase the lemon flavour rub off upon some lumps of sugar, before you make the syrup, the yellow rind of two or three other lemons. CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citrons very thin and narrow, and throw them into water ; these are called faggots. Then cut the citron into slices of any thickness you think proper; take out the inner part with great care, so as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the faggots into boiling water; when tender drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clari- fied sugar to souffle ; then put in the rings, and boil them together. Take it from the fire, and when a little cool rub the sugar against the side of the preserving pan with the back of a spoon. As soon as it becomes white take out the rings with a fork very carefully one by one, and lay them on a wire grate to drain ; boil, and proceed with the faggots in a similar way. When taken out cut them into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, and lay them also on the wire to drain. CITRON CHEESECAKES. Boil 1 pint of cream, and when cold mix with it S eggs well beaten; then boil them together until they become a curd. Beat a few blanched almond^CIT CIT [ 307 1 in a mortar with a little orange-flower water; put them to the curd, and add some Naples biscuits and green citron chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake in tins. CITRON CREAM. Boil 1 pint of cream with I oz. of isinglass, a little cinnamon and lemon-peel, and a bay leaf. When the isin- glass is dissolved strain the cream into a deep dish. Cut citron into thin slices, and put them in when the cream is nearly cold; take care the citron does not fall to the bottom, though the cream should cover it. Serve it quite cold. CITRON MELONS (Preserved). Take some fine citron melons, and pare, core, and cut them into slices; then weigh them, and to every 6 lbs. of melon allow 6 lbs. of the best double-refined loaf sugar, and the juice and yellow rind (pared off very thin) of 4 large fresh lemons; also ^ lb. of race ginger. Put the slices of melon into a preserving kettle, and boil them half an hour or more till they look quite clear, and are so tender that a broom twig will pierce through them; then drain them, lay them in a broad pan of cold water, cover them, and let them stand all night. In the morning tie the race ginger in a thin muslin cloth, and boil it in three pints of clear spring or pump water till the water is highly flavoured; then take out the bag of ginger. Having broken up the sugar, put it into a clean preserving kettle, and pour the ginger water over it. When the sugar is all melted set it over the fire, put in the yellow peel of the lemons, and boil and skim it till no more scum rises; then remove the lemon- peel, put in the sliced citrons and the juice of the lemons, and boil them in the syrup till all the slices are quite transparent, and so soft that a straw will go through them, but do not allow them to break. When quite done put the slices, while still warm, into wide-mouthed glasses or white-ware jars, and gently pour on the syrup. Lay inside of each jar upon the top of the syrup a double white tissue paper, cut exactly to fit the surface. Put on the lids of the jars, and paste thick paper over them. This will be found a delicious sweetmeat, equal to any im- ported from the West Indies, and far less ex pensive. We recommend it highly. Citron melons are brought to Philadelphia market in *the month of August. CITRON, MOCK. Cut the citrons longways into quarters; scrape out the seeds and inside ; preserve and candy them. Care must be taken of all fruits kept in syrup. If there is any froth on them they must be boiled up, and if they are very frothy and sour the syrup must be first boiled, then put on the fruit, and boiled all together. CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ends of the citrons, take out the middle, with all the Reeds ; boil them in some water, and when quite tender take them from the fiie and throw them into cold water a moment; then, having pressed them in a cloth to get the water out, pound and sift , them. To every J lb. of this marmalade put J lb. of clarified sugar; simmer them together, stirring constantly until well mixed ; then put it into moulds, and place it in a stove to dry. CITRON, PRESERVED. Lay some white citrons cut in pieces in salt and water for four or five hours; then, having washed them in cold water, boil them; when tender, drain, and lay them in as much clarified sugar as will cover them. The next day drain off the syrup and boil it; when quite smooth and cold put it on the citrons; let them stand four-and-twenty hours, then boil the syrup again, and put in the citrons. The third day boil both together, and put them into moulds to candy. CITRON, PRESERVED (Liquid). Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, so that the inside may take the sugar as well as the outside, and put them over the fire in some water; whenever they are near boiling put cold water to them. As soon as the citrons rise to the top take them out and throw them into cold water. They must then be put on the fire again in the same water, and boiled gently until tender; then take tiiem out, and put them in cold water. After this boil them seven or eight times in clarified sugar; pour the whole into an earthen pan, and let it stand. The next day drain the fruit, and boil up the syrup twenty or thirty times ; add a little more sugar, and pour it over the citrons ; do this for three successive days, increasing the degree to which you boil the sugar daily, so that at the last boiling the degree may be d la perle. The fruit may then be put into pots. / CITRON PUDDING. Mix together 1 pint of cream and the yolks of 6 eggs ; add to this 4 ozs. of fine sugar, the same of citron shred finely, 2 spoonsful of flour, and a little nutmeg. Place this mixture in a deep dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. CITRON RATAFIA. Pare 7 or 8 citrons very thin; cut the peel into small pieces, and put them into a jar with 3 pints of brandy, and let them infuse for three weeks; then add to this I lb. of sugar boiled in ^ pint of water, and well skimmed ; let it stand twelve or fifteen days, when it may be bottled. CITRON, SYRUP OF. Put into a china bowl alternate layers of fine powder sugar and citron pared and cut in very thin slices, and let them stand till the next day; then drain off the synip, and clarify it over a gentle fire. CITRON WATER. Bruise 18 ozs. of good citron-peel, 9 ozs. of orange-peel, and \ lb. ofC LA CIT [ 308 J Dutmegs; put them into 3 gallons of proof spirits, and distil it; then add 2 lbs. of double- refined sugar, and bottle it. CITRONELLE EATAFIA. For 2 quarts of the best brandy take the zests or rinds of 12 fine sound lemons, 2 drachms of bruised cin- namon, 1 oz. of coriander, and 2 lbs. of sugar dissolved in 1J pint of water. Infuse the whole for a month ; then strain and bottle it. CITRONELLE A LA VENISE. ' For 16 pints of brandy zest 12 fine lemons, which put to infuse as has been directed often, and distil in the same manner. Never forget, in distilling for 24 pints of brandy, to add 4 pints of water, and for 12 pints 2 pints of water, and 10 pints of water for the syrup, with 2 lbs. of sugai*. The whole is conducted as directed above. CIVET is a perfume obtained from the animal of the same name, and known to na- turalists as Viverra civetta. CIVET OF HARE. Cut tip a hare, and beat it up in a stewpan with a slice of butter and a bunch of herbs ; shake in some flour, and moisten with a pint of white wine and some stock, adding salt and pepper. When done, if you have any of its blood put it in; then thicken the sauce over the fire. It should be of a very dark colour. Some cooks add small pieces of bacon and young onions browned over the fire in butter to this stew, as also the blood and liver of the hare, reducing till the sauce becomes very thick. CIVET OF SLICES OF HARE. Take a roasted hare that has been served at table, and cut off all the meat in small slices; then bruise the bones, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter half the size of an egg, some sliced onions, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and 2 cloves; shake these ingredients a few times over the fire, adding a little flour; moisten the whole with 1 glass of stock and 2 glasses of red wine, and season with pepper and salt. Let it boil till half is consumed; then strain and put in the slices of hare, with a little vinegar, letting them heat, but not boil. CLARET. See Bordeaux Wines. CLARET, ARTIFICIAL. Distil in a cold still one part of clary water, half a part of red- streak cider, and put them with 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins beaten in a mortar, and 1 lb. of the fat mother of claret in a close vessel to ferment. When it has stood a fortnight draw it off, and for every gallon put | pint of mulberry, black- berry, or gooseberry juice, and 1 pint of spirit of clary; to the whole put 3 spoonsful of flour, the whites of 2 eggs, 1 drachm of isinglass, and 2 lbs. of syrup of clary. Mix the whole well together, and let it stand. When quite clear bottle it. CLARET RAGS are used for colouring jellies, confectionary, and the outside of cheese. They are made by soaking clean pieces of linen in mulberry juice, or the lees of any deep red wine, drying them and storing until required. CLARIFIED SOUP. Put into a pan from 8 to 10 lbs. of beef for boiling, with water suf- ficient to cover it, and let it boil slowly for three hours. Keep the pan lid on, and be careful to take off all the scum that rises. When done strain the broth. The dumplings, which are served in the tureen with the broth, are made as follows:—A quarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, 3 eggs well beaten and strained through a sieve, a little powdered mace, with some salt worked lightly into it, and as much flour as will make it into a light paste. Roll the dumplings in your hand about the size of an egg; take a sufficient quantity of the soup to boil the dumplings in ; let it be boiling when the dumplings are put in, and in ten minutes they will be ready. Add as much more of the soup as may be required to send it to table. The beef must be sent up as any other meat, and the following horseradish sauce, served in a butter tureen, to eat with it:— Gi'ate any quantity of horseradish you please, boil it in cream to the thickness of bread sauce, and send it up quite hot. This sauce is a fine relish to boiled beef in general. CLARIFYING is the act of clearing or fining liquids from heterogeneous or feculent ingredients. For this purpose the whites of eggs, blood, and isinglass are usually employed; the first two for clarifying liquors while boiling hot, the last for those which are to be fined when cold, as wine, ale, &c. The whites of eggs are beaten up into a froth, mixed with the liquor, and united with the impure particles floating on it, which soon indurate, and are carried up to the surface in the form of an insoluble scum. Blood operates in a similar manner, and is principally used in the processes of refining salt and sugar. Great quantities of isinglass are consumed in fining turbid wines. A solid piece, about J oz. in weight, is put into a cask of wine, where it gradually dissolves, and forms a skin \ipon the surface. This pellicle at length subsides, carrying down with it the fecu- lent matter that floated on lie wine. Other vintners previously dissolve the isinglass, and, having boiled it down to a gelatinous consist- ence, mix it with the liquor, strongly agitate the cask, and then let it stand to settle. It deserves, however, to be remarked, that wines treated in this manner are tainted with a very putrescent animal substance, and cannot be wholesome. CLARIFYING SUGAR. The first process which sugar undergoes in the hands of the confectioner is that of clarification. It is con-CLA CLA [ 309 ] ducted on the same principle as the refining of sugar, although not carried out in every par- ticular. For every 6 lbs. of sugar required to be cla- rified take 1 quart of water, the white of 1 egg, and about half a tea-cupful of bullocks' blood. Less than 1 pint will be sufficient for 112 lbs.; but if very fine, transparent, and colourless syrup is required, use either charcoal finely powdered or ivory black instead of the blood. Put the white of the egg in the water, and whisk it into a froth ; then add either of the articles mentioned and the sugar; place the pan con- taining the ingredients on the stove fire, and stir them well with a spatula until the sugar is dissolved and is nearly boiling. When the ebullition commences throw in a little cold water to check it. This causes the coarser parts to separate more freely, by which means •Ihe whole of the impurities attach themselves in the clarifying matter used. Continue this for about five minutes, using about 1 pint of water for every 6 lbs. of sugar, or more, until you consider the whole of the dross is dis- charged, and there remains a fine clear syrup; then place it by the side of the stove, and care- fully remove with a skimmer the scum which has formed on the top. It may also be taken off as it rises ; but we find it is the best method to let it remain a short time after it is clarified before it is removed, otherwise, if you take it off as it rises, part of the syrup is also taken •with it. When either the charcoal or ivory black is used it must be passed through a filtering bag, made of thick flannel in the shape of a cone, having a hoop round the top to keep it extended, and to which strings are sewn, that it may be tied or suspended in any convenient manner. That which runs out at first will be quite black, and must be returned again into the bag. Con- tinue this operation until it runs fine and clear. If a little lime—about a spoonful—or any other alkali is added to the sugar, with the water, &c., it will neutralise the acid which all raw sugars contain, and they will be found to stand much better after they have been manu- factured, by not taking the damp so soon. Tbis is not generally done by the trade; but it will be found beneficial if practised. Loaf Sugar is clarified by mixing the whites of eggs with water, without any other assist- ance ; for, having been previously refined, it does not require those auxiliaries again to sepa- rate the coarser parts unless it is of inferior quality, or an extra fine syrup, as for bonbons and other fancy articles, is required. When it is necessary to have a very fine, sparkling grain break your lump into small pieces, and put them in a preserving pan, with a suffi- cient quantity of water to dissolve it, in which has been mixed the white of an egg and pow- dered charcoal, as for raw sugar, following those instructions already given. After the sugar has been di-ained from the bag pass some water through, to take off any which may be left in the charcoal, which you can use for dissolving more sugar. The scum should always be reserved, when charcoal or ivory black is not used, to mix with articles of an inferior quality. The best refined loaf sugar should be white, dry, fine, of a brilliant, spai'kling appearance when broken, and as close in texture as possible. The best sort of brown has a bright, sparkling, and gravelly look. East India sugars appear finer, but do not contain so much saccharine matter; yet they are much used for manufac- turing the best sort of common sweetmeats, when clarified, instead of loaf sugar. Degrees of Boiling Sugar. This is the principal point to which the confectioner has to direct his attention, for, if he is not expert in this particular, all his labour and knowledge will be useless; it is the foundation on which he must build to acquire success in his under- takings. There are seven essential points or degrees in boiling sugar. Some authors give thirteen, but many of these are useless, and serve only to show a critical precision in the art, without its being required in practice. However, for exact- ness, we admit of nine, viz.:—1. Small thread, or Petite lisse. 2. Large thread, or Grande lisse. 3. Little pearl, o'c Petite perle. 4. Large pearl, or Grande perle. 5. T]ie blow, or Souffle. 6. The feather, or Grande plume. 1. Ball, or Gros boulet. 8. Crack, or Casse. 9. Caramel. This last degree derives its name from a Count Albufage Caramel, of Nismes, who discovered this method of boiling sugar. The three purposes for which sugar is clarified are Syrup, Crystallisation, and Candy. SvRUP. Under this head are comprised the degrees from the small thread to the large pearl, for at these points the sugar is kept in a divided state, and remains a fluid of an oily consistence. A bottle which contains 3 ozs. of water will contain 4 ozs. of syrup. The method of ascertaining those degrees, according to the usages of the trade, is as follows. Small thread, or Petite lisse. Having placed the clarified syrup on the fire, let it boil a little ; then dip the top of your finger in the boiling syrup, and, on taking it out, apply it to the top of your thumb, when, if it has attained the degree, on separating them a -^imall string will be drawn out a little distance about as fine as a hair, which will break and resolve itself into a drop on the thumb and finger. Large thread, or Grande lisse. Continue tlie[ 310 ] CLA. boiling a little longer, repeat the same operation as Detore, and a larger string will be drawn. Little pearl, or Petite perle. To ascertain this degree separate the finger from the thumb as before, and a large string will be drawn, which will extend to nearly the distance the fingers may be opened. Large pearl, or Grande perle. The finger may now be separated from the thumb to the greatest extent before the thread will break. Crystallisation. This takes the degrees of the blow and feather. The particles of the sugar being now brought together within the sphere of their activity, the attraction of cohe- sion commences, whereby they attach themselves together, and form quadrilateral pyramids, with oblong and rectangular bases. This is generally but improperly termed candy, thereby confound- ing it with the degrees at which it grains, also termed candy. This certainly seems "confusion worse confounded;" but, if things are called by their proper names, many of those seeming diffi- culties and technicalities may be avoided which tend only to confuse and embarrass the young practitioner, without gaining any desired end or purpose. If it were generally classed into the degrees of crystallisation the true meaning and use would at once be explained and understood by the greatest novice. The nature and principle of this operation are these. First, as in the case of syrup, when the water has absorbed as much sugar as it is capable of containing in a cold state, by con- tinuing the boiling a further portion of the solvent (water) is evaporated, and the sugar remains in excess, which, when exposed to a less degree of heat, separates itself, and forms crystals on the surface and sides of the vessel in which it is contained, and also on anything placed or suspended in it. But if it is exposed too suddenly to the cold, or disturbed in its action by being shaken, or if the boiling has continued too long, the crystals will form in'e- gularly, by the particles being brought in too close contact, and run too hastily together, form- ing a mass or lump. To obtain this part in perfection the boiling should be gradual, and continued no longer than till a few drops let fall on a cold surface show a crystalline appearance, or after being removed from the fire a thin skin will form upon the surface. It should then be taken from the fire, and placed in a less hot but not cold place, and covered or put into a stove or closet to prevent the access of cold air. A few drops of spirits of wine added when the sugar has attained the proper degree will conduce to a more perfect crystalline form, scarcely attainable by any other means, as it has a great afifinity with the water, thereby causing the sugar to separate itself more freely. It must be used with caution, as too much will cause it to grain. To ascertain the degree of lloiv, or souffle, continue the boiling of the sugar, dip a skim- mer in it, and shake it over the pan; then blow through the holes, and, if small bubbles or air bladders are seen on the other side, it has ac- quired this degree. The feather, or Grande plume. Dip tlie skim- mer again into the sugar, blow through the holes as before, and the bubbles will appear larger and stronger. Or, if you give the skim-r raer a sudden jerk, so as to throw the sugar from you, when it has acquired the degree it will appear hanging from the skimmer in fine long strings. Candy. Sugar, after it has passed the degree of feather, is of itself naturally inclined to grain, that is, to candy, and will form a powder if agi- tated or stirred; for, as the boiling is continued, so is the water evaporated until there is nothing left to hold it in solution; therefore, that body being destroyed by heat, which first changed its original form to those we have already enume- rated, as this no longer exists with it, it natu- rally returns to the same state as it was in before the solvent was added, which is that of minute crystals or grains, being held together by the attraction of cohesion, unless, as before stated, they are separated by stirring, &c. The sugar, being evaporated by boiling from the state of feather, leaves a thin crust of crys- tals round the sides of the pan, which shows it has attained the candy height; and this crust must be carefully removed as it forms with a damp cloth or sponge, or the whole mass will candy if suffered to remain. To prevent this is the chief desideratum, all further proceedings for which specific rules will be given in their proper places. The remaining degrees can be ascertained after the following manner. The ball, or Gros houlet. Provide a jug of clean cold water, and the stem of a clean tobacco pipe or a round stick. First dip the pipe or stick in the water, then in the sugar, and again in the water; take cff the sugar which has adhered to it, and endeavour to roll it into a ball between the finger and thumb in the water: when this can be done it has attained the desired degree. If it forms a large hard ball, which will bite hard and adhere to the teeth when eaten, it is then termed the large ball, et contra. The crack. Follow the directions given for ball. Slip the sugar off from the pipe or stick, still holding it in the water; then press it between the finger and thumb If it breaks short and crisp, with a slight noise, it is at the crack. Caramel. To obtain this degree it requires care and attention, and also to be frequently tried, as it passes speedily from the crack to theCLE CLA C 311 ] caramel. Try it as before directed, and let the water be quite cold, or you will be deceived. If on taking it off the pipe it snaps like glass with a loud noise it has attained the proper degree. It will also, when it arrives at this point, assume a beautiful yellow colour. After this it will speedily burn, taking all the hues from a brown to a black; therefore, to prevent this, dip the bottom of the pan into a pail of cold water as soon as it comes to caramel, as the heat which is contained in the pan and sugar is sufficient to advance it one degree. Also be careful that the flame of the fire does not ascend round the sides of the pan, which will burn it. In boiling sugar keep the top of the pan partially covered from the time it commences boiling until it has attained the ball or crack; the steam which rises being again thrown on the sides, prevents the formation of the crust or crystals. To prevent its graining add a little of any sort of acid when it is at crack. A table-spoon- ful of common vinegar, 4 or 5 drops of lemon juice, or 2 or 3 drops of pyroligneous acid—any of these will have the desired effect. This is termed greasing it; but remember, too much acid will also grain it; neither can it be boiled to caramel if there is too much. A little butter added when it first commences boiling will keep it from rising over the pan, and also prevent its graining. About as much cream of tartar as may be laid on a sixpence, and added to 7 lbs. of the sugar, or equal quantities of cream of tartar and alum in powder, added when the sugar boils, will also keep it from candying. If sugar is poured on a slab that is too hot it is very apt to grain. This is frequently the case after several casts have been worked off in rotation; therefore, when you find it inclined to turn, remove it to a cooler spot if possible, and do not handle it any more than necessary. Sugar that has been often boiled or warmed is soon acted upon by the atmosphere, whereby it becomes clammy, and soon runs, as it is weakened by the action of the tire. Acid causes the same effect. If it has passed the degree you intended to boil it at add a little water, and give it another boil. CLARY FEITTERS. Beat up 3 eggs with 1^ spoonful of cream; then add a little ratafia, 3 spoonsful of flour, nutmeg, and sugar to the taste. Wash and dry thoroughly some clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them. Garnish with Seville oranges, and serve them with melted butter. CLARY PANCAKES. Make a batter with 3 eggs, 3 spoonsful of flour, 1 pint of milk, and a little salt. Pour this batter in a thin layer on boiling lard, and on that a few well- washed and dried clary leaves, over which pour some more batter, and fry them, CLARY, SPIRIT OF. Take 1 quart of the juice of clary; clary flowers, clove gilly- flowers, archangel flowers, flowers of the lily of the valley, and comfrey flowers, of each 2 lbs. ; put these into 2 gallons of sack, and let them steep all night; then distil it in a glass still with a very gentle fire, and let the still be very well pasted to keep in the spirits. Put sifted sugar candy into the bottle you draw it in, and let it drop through a bag of ambergris. CLARY WATER. Put 2 quarts of fresh clary flowers, with 1 quart of borage water, into an earthen jar, which place in a large vessel of water over the fire. When it has stood an hour take out the flowers, and put in the same quantity of fresh flowers; in another hour take these out and throw in fresh, and so on for seven hours; then add 1 gallon of fresh flowers, 2 quarts of sack, and sweeten it with 2 lbs. of white sugar candy pounded ; distil it, and if necessary add more sugar candy. CLARY WINE. To 15 gallons of water put 45 lbs. of sugar, and, having boiled and skimmed it, put a small quantity of it to J pint of yeast; add a little more by degrees, and let it stand an hour ; then put both together, pour it on 12 quarts of clary flowers, and let it work. As soon as it has done bung it up for four months. Draw it off, and add 1 gallon of brandy ; stop it closely for six or seven weeks, and then bottle it. CLEAR STARCHING. For the following very full and correct directions we are indebted to the " Magazine of Domestic Economy." Clear starching, to be well done, requires very careful previous washing, and, in the case of lawns, muslins, and similar fine articles, they must be washed the way the selvage runs, to prevent fraying, in very clear hot water. Very hot water is apt to give them a yellow tinge. Strain the water before using it through a clear cloth into a pan; then take a small quantity, or according to the extent of the wash, of the best soap, put it upon a clean stick, and beat up a lather. When the lather has been thus pre- pared let the foulest of the light articles be put in one by one to soak out the dirt. They are then, while the water is still warm, to be washed out one by one, which prevents tearing. When well washed let them be squeezed very hard between both hands, so as to press out all the foul suds, and with the same view, when rinsing them out, shake them open into the pan they are put into. Now prepare a second lather similar to the first, and let the water in this be considerably hotter, though not quite scalding hot. Into this lather let the articles be put one by one as before, letting them stand a little,CLE ■[ 312 ] CLE but washing them out as before while the water is warm, and squeezing them hard when taken out. Prepare a third lather with water scalding hot, but not boiling, as that is apt to render the things yellow. Then put a small quantity of powder blue into a cup, with about as much water as will wet it, shaking the cup about to mix it, when it is to be poured into the scalding water, and stirred about till it is sufficiently blue. Then a lather is to be made of it with soap as before, tlie yellowest articles being put in first, and tlie whole covered with a clean cloth. They may either be washed out whilst warm, or be allowed to stand all night, for all the foulness ought now to have disappeared, and standing in the water will tend to clear them. In washing these articles out of the last lather the blue ought all to be washed out; then they must be laid in cold spring or pump water. If there be not sufficient time to starch them all at once let no more be done than there is time to finish, because lying in the starch will make them look yellow, and they may remain in the spring water till there is leisure to go on with the starching, provided this be not longer than two days, for fear of mildew. It is not considei'ed proper to boil fine articles, as it not only wears them soon out, but is apt to give them a yellow tinge. Fine articles should not have soap rubbed upon them, because the washing and rinsing them to get out the soap cause them to fray. Rinsing. In order to rinse fine articles before starching put some spring or pump water into a clean pan, and, putting a small portion of blue in a cup wetted with a little water, shake it so as to mix it, and put it into the water in small quantities, stirring it about with the hand. Into this water put the whitest of the fine articles one by one, previously squeezing them hard. Tvra or three will be enough at a time, for, if many be put in, the blue will settle upon them, and make them appear clouded and marbled. When any blue does settle in this manner acci- dentally let the parts be rubbed lightly by hand in the water, and it will not be difficult to get it off. If any of the finer articles be yellow a greater portion of blue added to the rinsing water will be advantageous. After rinsing out the articles let them be squeezed one by one between the hands very hard, for if any water be left in they will not take the starch. Then pull them out one by one with very dry hands, double them, and lay them on a clean dry cloth previously to the operation of starching. Some people starch the articles in the dry state, but this is not only apt to fray them, but makes them yellow and stiff. Starching. For caps, muslins, and other fine articles, prepare the starch by taking 1 pint of spring or pump water to J lb. of starch, and a little gum arable or isinglass may ho added. Warm the water a little more than milk warm in a very clean saucepan over a clear fire, and strain it if isinglass be used; put in the starch, and slowly stir it round in one direction till it just boils up, and no more, for if it is allowed to boil long it renders it yellow. Take it off, and pour it into a clean pan, covering it over with a plate till it becomes cold. It will prevent the starch from being too sticky if a small piece of rendered mutton suet be added to it; but some use a mould candle, stirring the starch about with it just before it boils. It will also make the starch much clearer, and consequently will render the articles clearer, and make them keep longer, to prepare the water by putting into a pint of water a piece of alum the size of a walnut, letting the whole come to a boil in a clean saucepan. Pour this out into a pan containing three pailsful of water, cover it over, and let it stand twelve hours, when it will be rendered very clear, and well adapted both for making clear starch and for washing or rinsing fine articles. The made starch, when cold, is to be mixed with a littlo blue by taking some blue in one hand and a portion of starch in the other, so as to incorpo- rate them thoroughly. When blued starch 13 used this is, of course, unnecessary. Care nui.st be taken not to make the starch too blue, and no more should be made at once than is to bo immediately used, because when- allowed to stand it tinges the articles yellow. Let the articles, according to circumstances, be doubled by the selvages, and, taking thcni one by one in the left hand, spread the starch upon them with the right, taking care not to put it too thickly. Put the starch first on one bide and then on the other, without opening such articles as are double. It will be best in this process to begin first with the finest caps or tho like, letting those of thicker fabric come last, for the starch that comes out of the finer things will do well enough for those that are coarser, such as aprons and handkerchiefs, thin starch being best for thick fabrics, as thick starch ren- ders them too stiff. When the caps and other fine articles have been done over with the starch, and well kneaded with the fist doubled till tho starch sticks about the hands, they must then be wrung pretty hard, and wiped with a dry cloth. They must afterwards be opened out, and rubbed very slightly through the hand. Clapping. In the case of caps and other fine articles, when they have been opened and rubbed through the hands take the two ends of the lappets, or the corners of things so shaped, to the middle of the article, and, holding them in this manner, let them be clapped altogether between the hands very hard. During the pro-CLE [ 313 ] CLE cess of clapping the hands must he washed •whenever any starch or wet adheres to them. After clapping with very dry hands let the arti- cles he carefully pulled in two directions, being attentive not to produce any fraying, and this is readily caused by portions of starch sticking to the hands. While the articles are being pulled as just directed they must, from time to time, be held up against the light, to ascertain whether they have been sufficiently clapped. On look- ing through the articles when held up against the light, if any spot appears shining, from the starch remaining there, it must be gently rubbed with the hand quite dry. When the things are clapped enough they will stick to the hands and separate easily. It is important to clap very hard and very quickly, to prevent the articles from being limber when dry. As soon as no shining spots appear when held against the light the things will be clapped enough. Nothing must be clapped singly, for fear of fraying and tearing. It will spoil the colour also if the clapping is done near the fire, except in frosty weather, when the cold will render this necessary. Ironing and Getting up. In the case of plain articles, when they have been ascertained to be sufficiently clapped let the hands be washed and veiy thoroughly dried, when the articles must he pulled in two directions, and laid doubly on the ironing board as evenly and smoothly as pos- sible. Another article is to be doubled in the same manner and laid over the first, and then a third, till about six have been so laid. The first, ■which will be the driest, may then be ironed with a box iron. The articles should be nearly dry, but not quite, as they will iron more smoothly when slightly damp. Fine plain muslin articles ought to he ironed on a clean soft woollen cloth, but in the case of thicker and coarser cottons they ought to be first ironed on a damp cloth, and finished by ironing them on the wrong sides upon the iron- ing cloth. In the case of edged caps, when they have been ascertained to be sufficiently clapped—and this is as easily done as in plain articles—a board ought to be procured with cloth nailed round the ends. Then, pulling out the cap in two directions, and holding by the edging with very dry hands, pin it down very straight to the cloth on the ends of the board, taking care to p\it the pins into the edging rather than in the body of the cap, which would leave holes that would not easily come out again. In this way three or four articles may be pinned down on the board, according as it may be of size to receive them. The articles must remain pinned on the board till they are quite dry, when the pins may be taken out, and the edging picked out with very dry hands by holding the body of the cap quite tight. Every little pucker and fold must thus be picked out on the board by going twice over the edging. The articles thus dried and picked out must be ironed on a damp cloth with an iron not too hot. In the case of lawns and cambrics, after wash- ing and rinsing them in the same manner as fine muslins let them be dipped into very thin starch, squeezed out very hard, and wiped very hard with a dry cloth. They must also be clapped with great care, as they are apt to slit. Wlaen they have been folded up after clapping let them be put into a clean pan, taking great care not to let them touch any wet, which, both in these articles and in muslins, leaves a thick sort of appearance instead of the fine semi-transparent look on which their beauty depends. Lawns and cam- brics ought, like thick muslins, to be ironed on the wrong side on a damp cloth with an iron not too hot. Articles of this kind must not be starched with starch left from other things, but with starch freshly made, and with a very little more blue in it than for thicker articles. In the instance of aprons, cravats, and similar articles, they must be done with very thin starch, such as has been left froni starching caps. They will not require a great deal of clapping, but must be very clear. To prevent fraying pull them out towards the gathers first, and then in opposite directions. Afterwards let them be doubled and laid on a board as evenly and smoothly as possible, where they must re- main till very nearly dry. Then let thpm be pulled evenly, and ironed on the wrong side. Cravats require to have the two ends exact. In the case of fringed articles the best way is to take off' the fringes, washing them by them- selves in at least three lathers, the last two having a considerable addition of blue. The fringe must then be wound around a long piece of clean board, combing it out carefully each turn that is wound. Afterwards dip it in clear spring or pump water several times, and let the water run off so as to lay the fringe the right way, It must be dried on the board as it lies by pressing it well with dry cloths. Fringe may likewise be done, though not quite so well, by washing it as in the preceding case, hanging it on a line to dry, and afterwards combing it out. The ad- vantage of this method is that it is much more speedily done ; the disadvantage is that it is scarcely possible to avoid tearing the fringe. When fringes are knotted they may be washed as already directed, and then opened with a bodkin. To whiten them in a superior manner they must be boiled with soap and powder blue, and hung up in the air to bleach. If the fringe is not taken off the articles before washing them it must all be picked out thread by thread with aCLI CLE [ 3U ] needle—a very tedious process ; but it can only te repeated about twice or thrice before the fringe wears out. In the case of caps and other articles trimmed with lace the body of the article only must be starched on both sides, and then doubled. The lace must then be gathered up in the right hand, and put into a dry cloth to keep it dry, while the starch is wrung out of the body of the article with the left hand. The lace will receive sufficient starch to render it stiff enough in the process of clapping. The same method may be practised with l3road edgings and ruffles. When the laces are pinned to boards let the pins be put in the middle, and not at the edge, lest the edging should be torn, or drawn out into un- sightly peaks or corners. CLEAVERS is a trailing native of our hedges and cultivated grounds, known also as clivers, catchweed, and goose-grass. It is called by botanists Galium aparine. This succulent vegetable possesses no smell, and is of a some- what bitter and acrid taste. An ointment pre- pared of the herb, when bruised and mixed with lard, is said to be a useful application for discussing cancerous swellings. Dr. Mayerne informs us that 3 ozs. of the juice of this plant, taken twice a day in wine, have been found singularly beneficial as an aperient and diuretic in incipient dropsies. Its greatest efficacy, how- ever, is aaid to be evident in scorbutic and can- cerous complaints, for the cure of which a tea- cupful of its expressed juice is to be taken every morning for nine or ten days. When the fresh plant cannot be procured the dried leaves may be infused and drank like tea. The branches of this vegetable are employed by the Swedes as substitutes for a hair sieve to strain milk. Young geese are ex^eedin^jly fond of the leaves, and the whole plant is eaten by horses, cows, sheep, and goats. It is said that the bones of poultiy feeding on the roots of goose-grass acquire a red colour. CLIMATE is a term usually given to any country or region that differs from another, as ■well with respect to the seasons and quality of the soil as to the manners of its inhabitants. The climate of this country, though in general temperate, is extremely variable. The transitions from heat to cold, however sudden in Britain, are less severely felt than upon the continent. Yet these frequent changes are productive of many diseases, which are genei'ated chiefly by the fol- lowing causes:—1. From the cold and moist temperature of the air, consequent on a long course of weather that was either dry and sultry, or warm, close, and moist, or intensely cold and drys together with keen frost, and from the effects produced by the contrary temperature. 2. Jj'rom cold and frosty weather, with piercing north or east winas, after a long course of mild weather, with south winds, which again prevail after the opposite extremes, and produce a moist and temperate or warm air. And 3. From cold weather during summer, and unseasonably warm or mild weather, together with south winds, in winter, and again attended with the contrary changes. This island is peculiarly subject to showers, and to close, cloudy, foggy weather, which must be ascribed to its insular situation. Clouds are continually wafted over from the sea by every wind, and condensed by the cold land air, as also by the humid vapours arising from plants, and thus precipitated in rain. From this cir- cumstance an uninterrupted continuance of dry weather is seldom experienced in Great Britain. But though such frequent changes, together with the moist and cold air so generally prevalent, render the inhabitants of this country liable to many disorders, yet the more malignant epi- demics are less fatal and occur less frequently than in most continental regions, because we enjoy the benefit of pure and temperate sea winds, and are exempt from the two extremes of heat and cold. The moisture of the British air, indeed, tends to relax the fibres; but it also promotes accretion, while its cool temperature condenses the solids and invigorates the whole body. Hence it hapj)ens that the natives of Great Britain are in general stouter and more robust than those of other countries, and though many persons here are subject to scorbutic and rheumatic complaints, arising from these various causes, to which must be added their gross and solid or luxurious food, yet a far greater propor- tion of the inhabitants of this island lives to an advanced age than of those of any continental country. This assertion, however, chiefly relates to salubrious farms and villages, where the people are more temperate and less debauched by spirituous liquors than in towns. We may farther remark that the prevailing custom of wearing light and thin dresses, especially among females, is by no means conducive to longevity; for, as those votaries of fashion and caprice are in all seasons exposed to colds and rheumatic complaints, many of them at length contract pulmonary or consump- tive diseases, and fall victims of folly at a period of life when they ought to be most useful to society. The solid, nutritive food of the inhabit- ants in general is likewise a principal cause of imany diseases originating from repletion; yet it must at the same time be admitted that such substantial nutriment greatly contributes to their strength, their full, athletic size, and their florid complexion. In the coldest climate the temperature, inimi- cal to man, counteracting his growth and ener- gies, obliges him to seek for shelter from the[ 315 ] CLO CLI severity of tlie climate by clothing of the warmest kind, and by means best calculated to promote that suitable degree of warmth of which he stands so much in need. In hot seasons and tropical countries, on the contrary, the too powerful in- fluence of heat, while it enervates, points out the necessity of slight clothing, refreshing breezes, and of avoiding an influence too strong to be supported. It is in the tempe- rate regions alone man attains the utmost possi- ble energy both of body and mind. It is there the arts and sciences are successfully cultivated, and that the greatest longevity is attained. In such climates little other regard to temperature is necessary than that which a few vicissitudes demand. In order to bear these we should slightly expose our bodies to them. We should, too, counteract the effect of cold by muscular action, rather than by artificisd heat or too much clothing. In winter the sustenance should be more substantial than in warmer weather. The circulation of the blood is thereby accelerated, and the natural heat of the body increased. As to adventitious means of guarding against the effects of cold, it may be observed that, though stoves communicate a uniform heat, and are much used in the more northern countries, they cannot be considered so well adapted to the pur- pose as fuel communicating both light and heat. Wood and coal are each of them valuable articles of fuel; but such coal as abounds with sulphur, or fuel such as charcoal, too abundantly pro- ductive of carbonic acid, should not be used for ordinary purposes. The state of the weather and season of the year will direct as to the degree of artificial heat required. Even in summer, should the room feel damp and cold, a moderate fire may be had recourse to. The tem- perature of the sitting-room or bedroom should not exceed the medium of that of our own climate. In sultry weather we should seek the cool of morning and evening, shaded retreats, and apartments not heated by the sun's too potent influence. Dress, with the view of answering its true intention, should be accommo- dated to the circumstances of climate, and to the season of the year. Hence our lighter clothing, if the weather require it, should be changed for one affording a suitable degree of warmth. Proportioned to the cold additional coverings to the bed are to be had recourse to. Such means of communicating heat should only be removed when the mildness of the weather permits. The temperature necessary to be pro- duced by adventitious means depends on habit. The more we accustom ourselves to indulgence in this respect the more liable we are to receive injury. Should a person have been exposed to severe cold he must with caution approach a fire, it being from heat, after the body has becu much previously cooled, that disease and incon- venience arise. CLOAK, MACKINTOSH. To cleac one of these rain-proof coverings dip it in cold soft water; then with a housemaid's scrubbing-brush and yellow soap proceed to scrub it all over, having spread it out flat on a table. When the dirt is removed dip it in repeated waters to get rid of the suds, but do not wring it. Hang it up in the air, or in an airy room far from the fire, to drain and dry. Paint or grease spots must be removed by scouring-drops or spirits of turpentine, but common soap will perfonn the rest, the dirtiest parts requiring the most scrub- bing. This process will not injure the velvet collar or lining; the only thing to be avoided is the use of hot water or the fire in drying, for either would cause the caoutchouc to melt and destroy the article. CLOAK-MAKING. For the following di- rections we are indebted to " The Dress-maker," a little work published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman, which we recommend to our female readers:—The breadths of a cloak are run together like those of a gown skirt. The lining is prepared separately. It is commonly made of silk, and wadded, or else lined with a particular sort of flannel, called cloak flannel. If the lining be of silk there are two ways of preparing it, one more expeditious than the other. One way is to tack the wadding or flannel to a coarse, cheap lining, and then to tack the entire silk lining to the inferior one. The cloak has thus two linings and a wadding. The other way is to tack the wadding itself to the silk lining with long zigzag stitches. This last method is not so neat as the other; but it requires less time and material, and puts less weight upon the shoulders of the wearer. " The wadded lining being ready, it is spread out on a large table, and the outside silk is laid over it, and tacked with stitches that are to come out again. Then it is to be finished round the edge with a cording, or with velvet or fur. A velvet trimming is either a strip of bias velvet, broader or narrower, put on plain, or it is a straight piece, cut at the inner edge into scallops or Vandykes, or some other fancifuj pattern. In the first case your way will be to turn in the raw edges of the cloak and its lining, and run them together; then run one edge of your bias strip of velvet upon the edge of the cloak, and fasten down the other edge either with a cording or by slip-stitching. " Slip-stitching" means running a hem without showing the stitches—without taking hold of the upper fold. Straw bonnets, you know, are lined by slip-stitching round the edge, but this stitch is easier with a thick material like velvet than with a slight bonnet lining.CLO CLO r. ] Tn the case of a fancy trimraing tlie straight edge of the velvet is run on the edge of the cloak, and the scallops or Vandykes are tacked down from the lined side. The making of such a trimming is not difficult to a good eye and exact hand. The velvet must be cut out by a paper pattern, either the straight way or on the bias, as may suit. It is lined with leno or stiff muslin, and the edges either corded and felled down upon the lining, or herring-boned without any cord. You must take care that your paper pattern is an exact one—that it may be trusted for the points or scallops being all alike; for any irregularity in a trimming of that kind makes it more of a disfigurement than an ornament. A silk trimming of the same material as the cloak will be managed in much the same way. The arm-holes (almost universal in cloaks) have to be finished next. If you can so arrange your breadths as to have the arm-holes come in the seam it will be better than making a slit in the middle of a breadth. Whether you can do this will depend on the size of the cloak, and on the width of the material it is made of; but do not, for this object, make the arm-holes too far back, so as to encumber the wearer with too much fulness in front, or to make the cloak twist on the shoulders. It is better to make a slit in a breadth than to do this. The right place for the arm-hole of a grown person's cloak is about sixteen inches from the front edge, and five or six inches below the shoulder-piece. The arm-hole itself should be about seven "inches long. Its edges will be either corded or covered by a fold called an arm-piece. The largest parts of the cloak are now ready, but the most important remain to be done. The most important part of a cloak is the shoulder-piece, since upon this depends the comfort of the wearer. Some cloaks drag back- wards, so as to threaten to choke the wearer; others putl forwards, and gall the back of the neck; and in either case the weight of the cloak feels very oppressive. These discomforts are owing to a defective make about the neck and shoulders. When, on the other hand, the shoulder-piece is formed from a pattern cut from the figure, and the fulness of the cloak is properly disposed round it, no garment can be more delightful to wear. Its weight is not felt, and it wraps round the figure, warm and easy, without any pressure being felt in any part. This shoulder-piece is a useful French inven- tion. Before it was known the entire fulness of a cloak was set into the collar, looking very clumsy on the shoulders. Now, by means of this piece, the garment lies flatly and gracefully on the upper part of the figure, while the weight is supported by the shoulders, instead of drag- ging from the neck. This piece is lined, and sometimes wadded, and edged with a cording. If a cloak is to have no cape it is usual to finish the neck and back with more care than if they were to be concealed. Sometimes the shoulder-piece is embroidered, or edged with a fringe. Sometimes the back is plaited from the shoulder-piece to the waist, where the plaits are secured by a band or strap six or eight inches long. A string is fastened to this band inside the cloak, and is tied round the waist, to give the garment somewhat of the bend of the figure. The collar of a cloak should be cut out with the same regard to the ease of the wearer as the shoulder-piece. This done, the stiS'ening, lining, and trimming are done in the common modes. Any other parts which it may be the fashion of the day to add to the cloak may be learned when wanted. The fancy is sometimes for capes or mantelets, sometimes for hanging sleeves. It is well to know how to make these things while the fashion for them prevails ; but there can never be a time when it \vill not be useful to you to be perfect in all the essential parts of a cloak. CLOTH, WOOLLEN. In selecting this pre- fer that which is soft and flexible ; tbat which is stiff and glossy is inferior, and will soon lose its bright appearance. See Appakel. CLOTHES BALL. &e Balls. CLOTHES LINES are best when made of horsehair or cocoa-nut fibre. If the lines are long, and it is desirable to keep them from being swayed much by the wind, it is a good plan to have cross lines, ty- ing the parallel long ones to each other thus: ' "~~ CLOTHING. See Apparel, CLOVE CAKES. Beat 6 eggs with 2 spoonsful of rose water, ^oz. of cloves or cin- namon, I lb. of sugar, and 1 lb. of sifted flour ; make it into a paste, roll it in thin cakes, and bake it on white paper. CLOVE CORDIAL. For 3 gallons take 2 of rectified malt spirits, \ lb. of clove pepper, 2 pennyweights of the oil of cloves, 1 pint of elder juice, lb. of loaf sugar, and fill up with water. To colour it put some archil in a bag, and press it into the spirit till it becomes a deep red, and let it fine of itself. If you choose it white leave out the elder juice and archil, and fine it in the same way as peppermint. CLOVE GILLYFLOWERS. Gather the flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red. To 1 quart of flowers put 2 quarts of spring water; let it stand for two days in a cold place, and, after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it off", put in i lb.CLO [ 317 ] CLY of double-refined sugar, and boil it up again for three or four minutes; pour it into a china basin, and let it stand to cool. When it is quite cold skim it, put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. CLOVE PASTILS are made like those of cinnamon. The proportions are 6 ozs. of cloves to i oz. of gum dragon. CLOVE RATAFIA. Take f oz. of cloves, and the same of cinnamon broken in small pieces, and put them into ^ pint of water; let them infuse for twenty-four hours. The next day clarify 2 lbs. of double-refined sugar in a bottle of water; boil it to the blow or souffle, and then add to it 4 bottles of the best red Bordeaux. Strain into this the infusion of cloves and cinnamon, tie the spices in a little bag, and put them in also; cover the pan, and boil up the whole half a dozen times ; then take it from the fire, pour it into an earthen vessel, and cover it. When quite cold take out the bag and squeeze it. Then take a bottle of rectified spirits of wine in one hand, and a spoon in the other; pour the former into the liquor, stirring constantly; taste it frequently, and when sufficiently strong of the spirit cease pouring. It may be bottled immediately. Cork it tightly, tie the corks down, and seal them. The longer this liqueur is kept the belter it will be. CLOVE WATER. Bruise 1 oz. of cloves, put them into a quart of brandy, and distil it. Dissolve H lb. of sugar in a pint of clear water, and add to it the distilled mixture. Stir them well together, filter, and bottle it. CLOVES. This spice is the produce of a tree known to botanists as Caryophyllus aro- maticus. Cloves are the unexpanded flowers or flower-buds, and are first obtained when the tree is six years old. They are gathered in October and November before they open, and when they are still green, and are dried in the sun, after having been exposed to smoke at a heat of 120°, till they assume a brown hue. It is a curious fact that the flowers when fully developed are quite inodorous, and that the real fruit is not in the least aromatic. Form that of a nail, consisting of a globular head, formed of the four petals of the corolla, and four leaves of the calyx not yet expanded, and a germen situated below, nearly cylindrical, and scarcely an inch in length. Odour strong, fragrant, and aromatic. Taste acrid, aromatic, and per- manent. They are more stimulant than any of the other aromatics ; they are sometimes given alone, but more generally as a corrigent to other medicines. The Dutch frequently mix the best cloves with those from which the oil has been drawn. Essential oil of cloves, in consequence of the resinous matter which it holds in solution, has a specific gravity of 1 020, and consequently sinks in water. When the oil has a hot, fiery taste and a great depth of colour it is adulte- rated. It is imported from the Spice Islands. On account of its stimulant properties it is added to gripiiig extracts, or used as a local application in the toothache. CLOVES, ESSENCE OF. Infuse 1 drachm of oil of cloves in 2 ozs. of the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary's measure. CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in the same manner as cinnamomum. The quantities are 1 oz. of cloves to 3 quarts of brandy, and 4 lbs. of sugar dissolved in 4 pints of water. CLOVES, SYRUP OF. Put i lb. of cloves and a quart of boiling water into a stewpan ; cover it closely, and boil gently for half an hour. Drain the cloves, and to 1 pint of liquor put 2 lbs. of sugar; beat up 2 eggs in a little cold water, add them to the above, and simmer the whole till it becomes a strong syrup. When cjld bottle it. CLOVES, TINCTURE OF. Steep 3 ozs. (apothecary's weight) of bruised cloves in a quart of brandy for ten days, and then strain it through a flannel bag. CLUB-MOSS. Lycopodium clavatum, or cjmmon club-moss, grows in dry mountainous places, heaths, and woods. It is principally found in the north of England ; produces a prostrate creeping stem from one to three yards in length ; flowers from July to August, and bears seeds which, if infused in ropy wine, will in a few days restore it. When thrown into a fire these seeds emit a bright flash, and also possess the peculiar property of being almost impervious to moisture, so *hat if they are scattered on a basin of water the hand may be immersed to the bottom without being wetted. In the north of Europe they are pulverised, ard applied externally for curing chaps in the skin and other sores. Beautiful mats or summer carpets are manufactured of the stalks of this plant in Sweden. Lycopodium selago, or fir-leaved club-moss, is very common on the mountainous heaths in the Highlands of Scotland, the Hebrides, and in the northern parts of England. This plant rises from two to five inches in height, and is in bloom from April to October. In the island of Raasay, in Ross-shire, and likewise in somo other places, the inhabitants employ it as a substitute for alum to fix the colour in dyeing. The Swedes make a decoction of it, and apply it to hogs and cattle for the destruction of ver- min. The Highlanders also occasionally take an infusioti of it as an emetic and cathartic, but it operates violently, and unless taken in a small dose causes giddiness and convulsions. CLYSTERS, or Injections, or Lavements,[ 318 ] CLY CLY are liquid remeclies introduced into the larger intestines or rectum. The most usual clvstering machines are those consisting simply of the bladder of a hog, sheep, or ox, to which an ivory- pipe is fastened with packthread. A more con- venient and durable sort is prepared of India rubber instead of a bladder, though the French and Germans employ in preference a long pewter eyringe, by which the liquor may with more ease and expedition be drawn in, and likewise more forcibly expelled than from a bladder. Both methods, however, are in many instances liable to great objections, especially the former, which cannot be administered without the assistance of another person, even though the patient should possess sullicient strength and dexterity to per- form the operation. Clysters form a very important class of medi- cines, which, if properly understood amd applied, might be effectually substituted for many reme- dies swallowed by the mouth to the detriment of the stomach, as well as the whole anim^al economy; for nature never intended that the receptacle of nourishment should become the laboratory of drugs, the local effects of which, sooner or later, cannot fail to impair digestion, and lay the foundation of more serious evils than those deluded patients vainly imagined to remove. Clysters not only serve to evacuate the con- tents of the belly in cases of obstinate costive- iiess, but also to convey into the system medicinal preparations of great activity. Thus opium, the Peruvian bark, &c., when they cannot be taken by the mouth, may be given in much larger doses, and with less danger; nay, the most nutritive ansd strengthening liquids may in this manner be administered to persons unable to swallow, so that their lives may be supported for many months, and even years, by means of clysters alone. In short, it may without hesita- tion be affirmed that injections are more con- formable to the intricate functions of the animal body, and doubtless safer than the introduction of medicines by the stomach. Although clysters should never be adminis- tered too hot or too cold, yet there are certain complaints accompanied with such debility of the larger intestines and the abdominal muscles as renders the application of cool liquids some- times necessary. Such cases, however, must be determined by the experienced practitioner. In general, thereforOrthese remedies are given in a tepid or lukewarm state, that is, from 80° to 96° of Fahrenheit's scale. The quantity used for adults is from half a pint to a pint; and for children, according to their age, from two or three spoonsful to half a pint. In administering a clyster attention should be paid to the quantity; for if too abundant, by occasioning over-fulness of the rectum, it is apt to excite an unnecessary degree of distention, and consequently to produce too much irritation in the internal membrane of the intestine which receives it. In affections where the intestines are in a state of irritation a stimulating clyster might produce much mischief. It must not be forgotten that a simple clyster ought to precede a stimulating one. By such practice the large intestines are disencumbered, and room is left for the medicaments to operate on the upper por- tion of the intestinal canal. Clysters act on the interior of the rectum and colon, and their in- fluence is afterwards extended to the small intestines. The advantage principally gained by this class of remedies is the evacuation of the faecal matter contained in the large intestines. Simple water is sufficient to produce this effect, and it is generally this liquid which is used when we would only empty the colon and rectum. The object of the medicinal clyster is a subsequent operation which requires great attention. Emollient clysters are composed of gelatinous and oily articles, as the decoction of the roots and leaves of the marsh-mallow, linseed, barley, starch, calves' feet and flesh, hartshorn shavings, &c. In the exercise of our daily functions these clysters do not create sudden changes worth noticing, but they insure in all the organs a perfect abatement, which tends to lessen their activity, and which, in diseases caused by an excess of vital force by a too great agitation of the blood, brings on a very remarkable calm. Very useful assistance is to be met with in all chronic affections in a dry, irritable constitu- tion. They agree with people who are subject to spasmodic affections within the abdomen. It is to them we must have recourse to combat active constipation, that is to say, that which retains an excess of heat or inflammatory excite- ment in the large intestines. We chiefly adopt the form of clyster termed emollient. It is eminently efficacious in pro- moting the operation of a purgative medicine, to prevent griping pain, and to render irritating matter which remains to be evacuated inoffen- sive. Its laxative power moderates the in- tensity of diseased secretions, and concurs in leading to a favourable issue. Sydenham and the most eminent practitioners prescribed the use of it in similar circumstances. In the case of a continued constipation it is an error to believe that a clyster produces the desired evacuation; for this remedy, not attack- ing the seat of the malady, becomes useless and even dangerous if too often renewed. Thus it is better to abandon it in this case, and re- turn again to purgation. Simple Clyster. Take 1 pint of cheese when« CLY [ 319 ] COA 01' buttermilk; or, about 2 tea-spoonsful of soft soap dissolved in 1 pint of soft water. These are administered lukewarm, to soften and remove hard fasces lodged in the rectum and colon. Laxative Clyster. Take of cheese whey, "buttermilk, or decoction of marsh-mallow leaves (fresh), 12 ozs.; Epsom salts, from 6 drachms to 2 ozs.; or castor oil, ] oz.: mix. This composi- tion is chiefly employed to obviate costiveness, or to hasten the operation of an opening medicine taken into the stomach. Purgative Clyster. Take of infusion of senna from 6 to 12 ozs.; Epsom salts, from 6 drachms to 2 ozs: mix. Or, take of socotrine aloes in powder 2 drachms ; soft soap, 3 drachms. After mixing them together in a marble mortar boil them gently in 1 pint of water for fifteen minutes, and then add Epsom salts, from 6 to 12 drachms. Or, castor oil, 2 ozs.; spirit of tur- pentine, 2 tea-spoonsful; gruel, ^ pint. These are prescribed in cases of obstinate constipation, when the rectum and colon are free from irrita- tion or inflammatory excitement. Emollient Clyster. Take of linseed tea from 8 to 12 ozs.; cold drawn linseed oil, from 2 to 3 ozs. Or, take of decoction of marsh-mallow root from 8 to 12 ozs.; olive oil or cold-drawn lin- seed oil, from 2 to 4 ozs. Or, take of gruel or thin starch 12 ozs.; olive oil or fresh butter, from 2 to 3 ozs. Or, take of thin hartshorn jelly 12 ozs.; fresh butter, 1 oz. These are employed in cases of costiveness attendant on piles, inflammatory action, irritation, ulceration, or stricture in the rectum. The two latter are also exhibited two or three times a day to nourish the body when food cannot be introduced into the stomach. The first is a good remedy in irritating affec- tions of the rectum and kidneys. Tonic Clyster. Take of Peruvian bark in fine powder from 3 to 6 drachms ; gruel, ^ pint. Or, take a decoction of Iceland moss from 8 to 12 ozs.; Peruvian bark in powder, 4 drachms: mix. Or, take of decoction of Peruvian bark from 8 to 12ozs.; starch powder, 3 drachms: mix. Or, take of decoction of bark from 6 to 8 ozs.; extract of bark, 3 drachms: mix. These have been found very beneficial in cases of debility, when the stomach was too irritable to retain a tonic medicine, and when the patient had not the power of swallowing, as in the case of putrid sore throat. They have also been administered with success in cases of inter- mittent fevers, attended with great debility and irritation of the stomach and bowels. It is worthy of notice that in cases of intermittents and other diseases, in which the Peruvian bark taken into the stomach excited nausea and purging, the clyster of the decoction of bark \rlth the extract (the last formula) has generally quieted the stomach, and occasioned constipa- tion. The composition of the decoction of Iceland moss and Peruvian bark (the second of the above formula) has been found very bene- ficial in cases oifluor albus and mucous discharge from the bladder, and in preventing miscarriage in those who are subject to it between the second and third months of gestation. When the bowels are confined, or when the clyster occasions constipation, a little Epsom salt should be divided. A tonic clyster is generally repeated three times a day. COAL. There are many varieties of this most important kind of fuel. The Jirst class contains only six kinds of coal, called Wallsend, Bigg's-main, Walker's, Heaton-main, Willington, and Hebburn-main. Tlie prices of these sorts vaiy, according to their abundance in the market, from one shilling to three shillings per chal- dron ; but they are generally upon a par, except the Wallsend, which is mostly sixpence or one shilling dearer than the others. The second class includes three sorts, all of which run large. They light and burn like a candle, and produce white ashes. These are usually mixed either with some of the first class, or with any of the strong sorts of the second, third, and fourth classes, because they run large, and make them burn in a more lively manner. These three sorts are Hartley, Cou- pen-main, and Blythe; and their price is gene- rally from two shillings to four shillings more or less below that of A¥allsend, according to their scarcity or abundance in the market. In this class may be included the best kinds of Midland Counties coal. Next to these are twelve sorts, which possess neaidy the same qualities as the best coals, but are in general smaller, and seldom vary more than two shillings in the chaldron, though they are usually from three shillings to four shillings in price under the 'Wallsend. The third class consists nearly of the same number as the second, and is likewise divided into two sorts, the first of which burns quickly, and produces white ashes ; the other is very strong aud good, but at the same time very small, and is used by smiths and manufacturers. The prices of this class of coals are generally from four shillings to six shillings per chaldron, more or less, under that of the Wallsend, according to their abundance or scarcity. Lastly, the fourth class contains all the re- maining kinds of coal. They differ also in quality : some burn light, produce white ashes, are slaty, and very indifferent; others are small and strong, but not good enough for smiths. The price of these varies greatly, especially of the lighter kind. It is, in general, from eight shillings to ten shillings and even fifteen shil- lings lower than the Wallsend. These different[ 320 ] CO A COA classes, and particulai-ly some of the inferior sorts, are frequently mixed together, and thus afford an opportunity of changing the prices of coals. This, however, is always to the loss of the consumer, who loses ten shillings or more in the quality, in the hope of saving four shillings or six shillings in the price. All the coals brought to the London market are publicly sold only by the whole, half, or quarter ship. Those who have neither craft nor wharfs to unload at the rate of 40 chaldrons per day purchase from some of the greatest coal merchants. This is called loading on account, and the former pay one shilling per chaldron for commission. Pool measure is one-fourth of a chaldron extra on any 5 chaldrons; and a room of coals of 5 J chaldrons contains about 68 sacks of 3 bushels each, or somewhat less ; but this quantity may be divided into from 70 to 90 sacks if they are filled up, and not measured by the bushel, under the inspection of a sworn meter. The pool measure, therefore, being larger than the bushel measure, the profit of a coal merchant may be estimated upon an average at 5 sacks upon 5 chaldrons, that is, at about 8 per cent. The heating qualities of some of the different coals known in Great Britain are in the follow- ing proportions:— Scotch Cannel . , . .199 Lancashire Wigan . . . . 196 Yorkshire Cannel . . . .188 Newcastle (best Wallsend) . . 169 Gloucestershire (Forest of Dean) . 108 Welsh (common) . . . . 25 Hence, if the Scotch Cannel coal cost 19s., when the Gloucestershire could be had for IDs. per chaldron, the latter would be no cheaper, for the heating powers of the first are as 199 to 108 of the latter. In other words, 108 chaldrons of Scotch would afford as much heat as 199 chaldrons of Gloucestershire. The following are the quantities of the fuels named required to heat eight gallons of water from 52° to 212°:— lbs. Caking coals 1-2 Splint, or hard coal ) „ ,„ Cannel coal . .J Cherrj', or soft coal . . . 1'5 Wood of lime 310 >» beech . 316 3» elm .... .' 3-52 oak (chips) . 4-20 1) ash .... . 3-SO n maple . 300 jj service . , . . 300 cherry ... . 3-20 » fir ... . . 3-52 3) poplar . . , . 310 liornbeani . 3'3r Peat (average, not compressed) . 7-6 Charcoal of wood . . , , 1-52 i> peat . . . 3-28 It is essential to good and profitable fuel that it should be free from moistm'e, for unless it he dry much of the heat which it generates is consumed in converting that moisture into vapour; hence the superior value of old, dense, dry wood to that which is porous and damp. If 1 lb. of diy wood will heat 35 lbs. of water from 32° to 212°, lib. of the same wood in a moist or fresh state will not similarly heat more than 25 lbs. The value, therefore, of different woods for fuel is nearly inversely as their moisture ; and this may be readily ascertained by finding how much a pound weight of the shavings of each loses by drying, during two hours, at a temperature of 212°. Coals are a most expensive article in a family, and servants should be instructed to he particularly careful of them. They ought not to be always stirring the fire. Fresh coals are quickly turned into dead cinders by fre- .quent and violent stirring, besides its keep- ing the hearth in a constant litter, and giving the fireplace a very uncomfortable appearance. When a fire is made up the coals should be wetted with a little water, and suffered to lie a short time to cake together before they are stirred. Careless servants, by using up the large coals when they are not wanted, have only dust to burn towards the last, and thus both parlour and kitchen have to put up with bad tires till a fresh stock of coals comes in. A fire always burns deader after the bellows have been applied to it; at any rate it should be blown gently, and from a distance. People are apt to suppose that the more coals they heap on a fire the better it burns ; but if it is loaded too much it will not draw till it is half stirred away into the ashes. How many more shovels- ful than are wanted may be thrown on in a day! How few of these go to a peck ! and there are but four pecks in a bushel! See Anthracite and Fire. COAL BALLS. Take a ton of soft mellow clay, which is free from stones, and work into it three or four bushels of small sea-coal previously sifted; form this composition into balls or cakes about three or four inches in diameter, and let them be thoroughly dried. When the fire burns clear place four or five of these balls in the front of the grate, where they will soon become red, and yield a clear and strong heat till they are totally consumed. The expense of a ton of this com- position is but trifling when compared with that of a chaldron of coals, as it may be pre- pared at one-fourth of the cost, and will be of greater service than a chaldron and a half of the latter. COAT. See Apparel and Measurement. To renovate a Mack coat. See Black, Re- viver OF.COU [ 321 ] COB To clean a coat collar. , Open the collar, and lay the coat upon its back on a clean table; have at hand some cotton wadding (to be cheaply obtained at the mercer's), and, taking a con- venient and manageable quantity of it in the hand, soak it freely in clean spirit of turpentine poured out into a saucer, and apply it all over the collar wherever disfigured with greasy matter. Take the coat, and hold it at a moderate distance from the fire, to warm the collar and promote the action of the turpentine as a solvent. Before becoming dry, and while warm, apply fresh turpentine, and with successive rubbings between the hands and pressure, and renewal of the wadding, it will be found that the whole of the objectionable matter may be removed. The remaining smell of the turpen- tine will soon escape from the collar on being exposed to the open air or moderate influence of a fire. COBALT is a metal, the oxides of which, owing to their permanent blue colour, are of great use to the painter, potter, and laundress. It is extremely valuable to the manufacturers of porcelain, for it not only produces a beauti- ful colour, but endures the extreme heat of their furnaces without ai)y deterioration. This colour is so intense that a single grain of the pure oxide will give a deep tint of blue to 240 grains of glass. The strewing-smalt, an article which was formerly much used by sign painters, is made by melting the oxide of cobalt with flint glass, and grinding the whole to a coarse powder. The same composition reduced to an impalpable powder forms the smalt sold under the name of powder bine, and which is now not only used by laundresses, but is made the basis of several pigments. It has also been much employed by paper manufacturers to give a blue tinge to writing and printing papers. In the fifteenth century cobalt was employed to colour glass, and yet till lately but small quantities of it have been used. Formerly the miners threw it aside as useless. They con- sidered it so troublesome when they found it among other ores, that a prayer was used in the German church that God would preserve miners from cobalt and from evil spirits. The greatest consumption of cobalt is by the potters and porcelain manufacturers, some of whom make their own colour from foreign zafTre; but in Staffordshire there are several people who make an entire trade of preparing this colour for the earthenware manufacturers, and who conduct the process with great secrecy. The usual price of the prepared colour is two guineas the pound. COCCULUS INDICUS, or Jagged Moon- BEED, is the berry of a Malabar shrub known to botanists as Cocculus suherosus. The berries are about the size of large peas, of a grey colour, and wrinkled surface. They contain a kidney-shaped seed within a very thick shell- Four ounces of the nut gave 1 oz. of the seeds. The shell has little taste. The seeds are in- tensely and durably bitter. M. Boullay analysed them, and found them to contain about half their weight of a concrete waxy oil, albumen, a particular colouring matter, a bitter poisonous principle, picrotoxine, lignine, and various saline matters. Picrotoxine resembles camphor in its action on the liviug system, but is much more powerful and deleterious. The Cocculus Indicus is used both in India and in this country to intoxicate fishes, in order that they may be caught; and it is said to be employed by some porter brewers to give bitter- ness to their beer, and to render it more in- toxicating. An ointment made with it has long been a domestic remedy in some places to kill vermin on the head, and is successfully applied in cases of tinea capitis, and in sycosis menti. This use of it is probably derived from the native practitioners of India, who beat it into a fine powder, and mix it with a little warm castor oil, as an application in cases of inveterate itch and ringworm. Dr. Jaeger has lately used with success, in tinea capitis, a salve made of 10 grains of picrotoxine rubbed up with 1 oz. of lard. One ounce and a half of the salve generally sufficed for a cure, which was effected in less than four weeks. COCHINEAL (Coccus cacti). Cochineal is the dried body of the female of a hemipterous insect. It is found only in Mexico, chiefly in the province of Oaxaca, on the leaves of a non- descript cactus, according to Humboldt. There are two kinds of the cochineal insect, which live on different species of cactus, &c. It is worthy of notice that not only the fruit, but even the green joints of several species of cactus dye cotton purple or red. The wild cochineal, [grana Sylvester), which is covered with a silky or cottony envelope, is less valuable than the cultivated or powdery cochineal, which is without that covering, grows to a larger size, and furnishes a finer and more permanent colour. Cochineal has the form of hemispherical grains, flat or concave on one side, and convex; on the other, and having some appearance of transverse rings, about a line in diameter, dry, light, friable, of a blackish red colour externally, sometimes covered with a white bloom. Powder of a purplish carmine colour; smell, especially when powdered, musty; taste musty, like sourish old cheese; not liable to deterioration when properly kept. Cochineal is enumerated among the diuretic[ 322 ] COC coc remedies. It has also been recommended as an anodyne to children in hooping cough, but we do not know that it has been proved to possess any narcotic power. Lately it has been ex- tolled as a remedy in tic douloureux. Sauter pre- scribed 20 drops of the tincture morning and evening. On the recurrence of a violent fit half a table-spoonful was taken at one time, and the pain ceased in a few minutes, and never returned. In another case the pain ceased at once and for ever. In a third case, although the patient took half a table-spoonful, mitigation only was obtained. In pharmacy it is used for colouring tinctures and lip salves. But cochi- neal is used chiefly in the arts for the sake of the fine colour it furnishes, and it is principally consumed by the scarlet dyers. The colour is easily extracted by alcohol, water, and water of ammonia, and in the dried insect it is not im- paired by keeping for any length of time. COCHINEAL : To Preserve. Boil 1 oz. of cochineal beaten to a fine powder in f pint of water until reduced to half; then add to it rock alum and cream of tartar, of each f oz., pounded finely. Boil all together a short time, and strain it. If to be kept any time 1 oz. of loaf sugar should be boiled with it. COCHINEAL, PREPARED. Pound 1 oz. of cochineal to a very fine powder; pound also 1 oz. of cream of tartar and 2 drachms of alum. Put these ingredients into a saucepan with -^pint of water. When it boils take it from the fire, and let it cool. Pour it off into a bottle as free from sediment as possible, and set it by for use. COCK-A-LEEKY. Truss an old fowl in the same manner as for boiling, and put it into a pot with a piece of lean beef, unless you have some gravy soup, and then the beef may be omitted. Stew it till nearly tender ; then take two dozen leeks, cut off the white part, with a little of the green, about an inch in length, and add them to the soup, with a little spinach and parsley. Stew the whole till it is rich and good, and season with pepper and salt. Some persons stew it with -^Ib. of French prunes. Serve it up with the fowl in the tureen. COCKLE CATSUP. Wash the quantity of cockles you may require in their own liquor, and, having pounded them, to every pint of paste put an equal quantity of sherry, Boil it, and put to it 1 oz. of salt, the same of Cayenne, and 2 drachms of pounded mace. Boil it a second time, skim, and rub it through a sieve. When quite cold bottle it, and keep it tightly corked. COCKLE SAUCE. Scald the cockles in their own liquor, and when the liquor settles add a little water if necessary. Strain, and season with all sorts of spices. For brown sauce put in a little port wine, garlic, and an anchovy; but if the sauce is to be wJdte instead of these latter ingredients use sherry, lemon juice, mace, nutmeg, white pepper, and lemon-peel. Cockle sauce is also made the same way as Oyster Sauce. COCKLE SOUP (with Mushrooms). Pre- pare meat, vegetable, or fish stock, and season it well without salt, as the juice of the shell fish generally makes it salt enough. Boil the parings and stalks of the mushrooms in it. Every quart of soup will require half a pint of cockles, more or less, according to the size and quantity of mush- rooms used. If they are not all buttons of the same size they ought to be cut, and should be cooked white in butter, or cooked slowly in the stock, as they take a long time. All fish soups may be heightened with catsups, anchovies, lemon pickle, soy, &c. COCKLES. These should be procured a day or two before they are wanted, that they may be cleansed as much as possible from the grits. They are cleansed as follows :—Put the cockles into a tub with plenty of water, and stir them up two or three times a day with a birch- broom ; change the water each day, and when properly cleaned put them into a saucepan with hot water, and boil them. As soon as the shells open they are done. They should be served very hot. COCKLES, PICKLED. Boil 3 quarts of cockles in their own liquor for half an hour, skimming them well; then take out the cockles, and strain the liquor through a cloth. Take a pint of water, and add to it f oz. of mace and ^ oz. of cloves. Boil these together once, then put it to the cockles and remaining liquor, and stir it well; add to this a spoonful of salt, f pin* of white wine vinegar, and J oz. of whole pepper, and let it stand. When cold put the cockles in small barrels or jars as closely as they will lay; pour on them as much liquor as you possibly can, and as it soaks in put in more. Cover them very closely. They may be soon eaten. COCKROACH. See Beetles, Black. COCKS' COMBS: To Preserve. Let them be well cleaned; then put them into a pot with some melted bacon, and boii them a little. About half an hour afterwards add a little bay salt, some pepper, a little vinegar, a sliced lemon, and an onion stuck with cloves. Wben the bacon begins to stick to the pot take them up, put them into the pan you would keep them in, lay a clean linen cloth over them, and poiur clarified butter over them to keep them close from the air. COCKS'COMBS (Farced). Make a force- meat as follows:—Chop up some beef marrow, bacon, and the white parts of a fowl, and pound them in a mortar with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg well beaten; then, having[ 323 ] coc COC parboiled the cocks' combs, open tbem at the largest end, and fill them with forcemeat. Stew them gently half an hour in rich gravy, to which add the yolk of an egg well beaten in gravy, some salt, and fresh or pickled mushrooms, or both if you think proper. COCKS' COMBS (Fricasseed). Put a slice of ham into a stevvpan, with mushrooms, sweet herbs, cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and butter. When they have soaked together a short time add a little flour and some broth, and then strain it. In the meantime scald the cocks' combs, and boil them in broth with a few slices of lemon; put them into the above sauce, and thicken it with cream and yolks of eggs; flavour it with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and serve with any sauce you please. Garnish your dish with forcemeat balls, hard eggs, or small onions. COCKS' COMBS AND KIDNEYS (in Aspic). Place an aspic mould in a vessel full of pounded ice. Pour into this mould some aspic about an inch thick, and ornament it according to your fancy with truffles, the whites of hard eggs, gherkins, crayfish tails, and cocks' kidneys. When that is done pour in a little more aspic, taking care not to derange the ornaments. As soon as it is set fill up your mould with the cocks' combs and kidneys, leaving a small place at the top, which fill up with aspic. When wanted for table dip the mould into warm water an instant, and then take it out; through a reed blow away whatever pieces of jelly may remain about the dish ; dry it, and serve with the sauce of a chicken fricassee reduced to a jelly, and thickened with the yolks of 4 eggs; strain it, and add 12 champignons ti'immed and done up in butter and lemon juice. Small moulds may be used instead of this large one. COCKS' COMBS (Pickled). Scald the cocks' combs, take off the skins, and stew them for half an hour in white wine vinegar, with cloves, mace, allspice, whole pepper, bay leaves, and bay salt; then put them in a jar, and when cold cover them with mutton suet, and tie them tightly over. When they are wanted take them out of the pickle, and lay them in warm water for an hour. COCOA. See Cacao and Chocolate. COCOA-NUT CAKE. Cut up and peel some pieces of very ripe cocoa-nut; lay the pieces for awhile in water; then take them out, wipe them very dry, and grate very finely as much as ■when grated will weigh | lb. Powder ^ lb. of the best loaf sugar; beat 8 eggs till very light, thick, and smooth; then stir the grated cocoa- nut and the powdered sugar alternately into the pan of beaten egg, a little at a time of each, adding a handful of sifted flour, a powdered nutmeg, and a glass of sweet wine; stir tho whole vei-y hard. Butter a square tin pan, put in the mixture, set it immediately in a quick oven, and bake it well, seeing that tiie heat is well kept up all the time. When cold cut it into squares. Have ready a thick icing made of powdered sugar and white of egg, flavoured with rose water or extract of roses. Ice each square of the cake all over the top and sides. You may bake it in a loaf in a deep circular pan. Ice the whole surface, and ornament it. For a large cake baked in a loaf allow 1 lb. of grated cocoa-nut, 1 lb. of sugar, 16 eggs, 2 handsful of flour, 2 nutmegs, and 2 glasses of wine. It will require very long baking. COCOA-NUT CHEESECAKES. Take a good-sized nut, peel off the skin, and grate it very finely; put to it 4 or 5 spoonsful of rich syrup and 1 spoonful of rose water ; set it over a few coals, and keep stirring until it is mixed; then take it off the fire, and let it cool; next mix the yolks of 2 eggs well with it, and bake it in the shape of cheesecakes. The paste must be made with flour and yolks of eggs rolled as thin as possible. Wet the tops of the cakes with rose water, sift some refined sugar over them, and bake them in an oven at the same heat as for macaroons. COCOA-NUT CREAM may be made as Almond Cheam, substituting for the almonds 1 lb. of cocoa-nut grated finely. When it has boiled and is taken from the fire stir into the cream a wine-glass of rose water. COCOA-NUT DESSERT. Grate some cocoa-nut on a dish, sift finely powdered sugar over it, then another layer of grated nut with sugar till the dish is filled. This is a very nice dessert dish COCOA-NUT PUDDING. Take two cocoa- nuts of large size, break them up, pare off the brown skin from the pieces, and then grate them very finely. Stir together ^ lb, of the best fresh butter and | lb. of finely pounded loaf sugar till perfectly light. Beat 6 eggs till very thick and smooth; afterwards mix them gradu- ally with 1 pint of cream. Add this mixture by degrees to the beaten butter and sugar in turn with the grated cocoa-nut, a little at a time of each, stirring very well as you proceed; then give the whole a hard stirring. Put the mixture into a deep white dish, and bake it well. Send it to table cold, with loaf sugar sifted over the top. You may season the mix- ture by stirring in at the last 1 tea-spoonful of mixed nutmeg and cinnamon finely powdered, and you may add 1 table-spoonful of rose brandy. COCOA-NUT PUFFS. Break up a large ripe cocoa-nut; pare the pieces, and lay them awhile in cold water; then wipe them dry, and[ G24 3 COD COG grate thetn as finely as possible. Lay the grated cocoa-nut in well-formed heaps on a large hand- some dish. It will require no cooking. The heaps should be about the circumference of a dollar, and must not touch each other. Flatten them down in the middle, so as to make a hollow in the centre of each heap, and upon this pile some very nice sweetmeat. Make an excellent whipped cream, well sweetened and flavoured with lemon and wine, and beat it to a stiff froth. Pile some of this cream high upon each cake over the sweetmeats. If on a supper table you may arrange them in circles round a glass stand. COCOA-NUT SOUP. Take 8 calves' feet (two sets) that have been scalded and scraped, but not skinned, and put them into a soup kettle, with 6 or 7 blades of mace and the yellow rind of a lemon pared thin. Pour on a gallon of water, cover the kettle, and let it boil very slowly, skimming it well, till the flesh is reduced to rags, and has dropped entirely from the bones; then strain it into a broad white-ware pan, and set it away to get cold. When it has congealed scrape off the fat and sediment, cut up the cake of jelly or stock, and put it into a clean porce- lain or enamelled kettle. Have ready ^ lb. of very finely grated cocoa-nut, and mix it with 1 pint of cream. If you cannot obtain cream take rich unskimmed milk, and add to it 3 ozs. of the best fresh butter divided into three parts, each bit rolled in arrowroot or rice flour. Mix it gradually with the cocoa-nut, and add it to the calves' feet stock in the kettle, seasoned with half a nutmeg. Set it over the fire, and boil it slowly about a quarter of an hour, stirring it well; then transfer it to a tureen, and serve it up. Have ready small French i-oUs or light milk biscuits to eat with it; also powder sugar, in case any of the company should wish to sweeten it. COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, and throw it into cold water ; then grate it, and boil it in clarified sugar (1 lb. to each pound of cocoa-nut) until quite thick;» stir it frequently to prevent its burning. Then pour it on a well-buttered dish or marble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you think proper. COCOA-NUT TART. Blanch and beat ^ lb. of cocoa-nut with orange-flower water, 1 or 2 musk plums, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat the yolks of 10-eggs, and thicken them over the fire with 1 pint of cream or milk; mix all together with some grated Naples biscuit; put it in a dish lined with paste, and when baked stick it over with cocoa-nut cut in fillets. COCOTTES. Take a number of small cups, and put in each a small piece of butter; break a new-laid egg in every cup: season them with pepper and salt; set them over hot ashes, and pass a salamander over the top. COD. A cod-fish should be firm and white, the gills red, and the eye lively. A fine fish is very thick about the neck. If the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. Those which come from the Dogger Bank are reckoned the best. Cod is in its prime duriug the months of October and November if the weather is cold. From the latter end of March to May cod is also very fine. The length of time it requires boiling depends on the size of the fish, which varies from 1 lb. to 20 lbs. A small fish about 2 or 3 lbs. weight will be sufficiently boiled in a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes after the water boils. Prepare a cod for dressing in the following manner:—Empty and wash it thoroughly; scrape off all the scales ; cut open the belly, and wash and dry it well; rub a little salt inside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. The most simple way of dressing it is as follows :—Tie up the head, and put it into a fish kettle with plenty of water and salt in it; boil it gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Lay a napkin under the fish, and garnish with slices of lemon, horseradish, &c. COD : To Boil. Wash and clean a cod or a part of one, and then rub some salt on the inside. If the weather will permit keep it a day or two ; then put plenty of water into the kettle, with a handful of salt, and when it is dissolved lay in the fish, which, if of a moderate size, will be done in about twenty minutes, but a large one will take half an hour. Drain it on a fish plate, and serve it up with the roe, liver, melted butter, and oyster sauce. COD, BAKED. Soak a fine piece of fresh cod in melted butter, with parsley and sweet herbs shred very finely; let it stand over the fire for some time, and then bake it. Let it be of a good colour. COD (EN Bonne Moeue). Work 3 spoons- ful of bechamel over the fire with a good bit of buttex", seasoned with pepper and salt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in the sauce, and let them remain in the sauce till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of the dish, put the flakes or scallops of the cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, and brown them with a salamander. Garnish your dish with toasted bread cut in different forms, and placed alternately. COD, CRIMPED. Put a gallon of spring water, with a handful of salt, into a saucepan; boil it up several times, and skim it till it is perfectly clear. Lay a middling-sized cod in some fresh pump water, and let it lie a short time, after which cut it into slices of about two inches in thickness each. Lay these in theCOD COD [ 325 ] prepared liquor, and boil tlie whole again a few minutes ; then take them out carefully, and put them on a sieve to drain. When dry flour them, and set them to boil over a good fire, but not too near. Serve with lobster, shrimp, or oyster sauce. COD (en Dauphin). Your cod being pro- perly prepared, marinate it for a couple of hours in sweet oil, with salt, pepper, scallions, bay leaf, parsley, and garlic; then pass an iron skewer through the eyes, the middle of the body, and bring it out at the tail, making it in the form of a dolphin; place it in a baking pan, baste it with marinade, and bake it. When sufficiently done take out the skewer, put it on a dish, and pour over it the following ragout:— Boil up separately three carps' roes and some asparagus heads, and then put them into a stewpan, with a little butter, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions ; do them over the fire, and add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and the same of soupe maigre. When the ragout is sufficiently done thicken it with the yolks of three eggs and some cream. COD (with Heebs). Prepare a cod, and lay it in salt and water. When it has been in an hour place it in a table dish, with sweet herbs ready cooked and butter. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and spices in powder; sprinkle the dish with dripping; moisten it with a bottle of white wine; baste it frequently with melted butter, and bake it. When done squeeze the juice of two lemons over it. COD PIE. Lay a fine piece of fresh cod in salt for several hours; then wash it well; season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; place it in a dish, with a little butter and some good stock; lay a crust over, and bake it. When done pour in a sauce made as follows :— A spoonful of stock, ^ pint of cream, flour, and butter; grate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel, with a few oysters. Boil the whole once. COD (in Salt Water). The cod being properly cleaned and prepared rub it all over with lemon juice, and put into the fish kettle, in salt and water, two or three bay leaves, an equal number of cloves of garlic, some slices of onion, parsley, and a glass of verjuice. Let it stand over the fire, taking care that it does not boil until sufficiently done; then drain, and serve it on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Serve with it any fish sauce you think proper. COD, SALT." The flesh of good salt cod is very white, and the flakes large ; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before it is dressed it should be soaked in milk and water, or water alone for several hours ; if very dry and salt a whole day will not be too long. When you think the salt sufficiently soaked out put the fish into a fish kettle with plenty of cold water, and set it on the fire ; when nearly boiling skim it, and let it simmer gently till done. Serve it with egg sauce, and garnish your dish with parsnips or potatoes. To make the following dishes the fish should be previously parboiled. COD, SALT (a lAnglaise). Cut the fish in pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with melted butter and a glass of broth maigre; cover them closely, and let them stew. Melt some butter in an equal quantity of cream, add nut- meg grated, and when well mixed together put it into your dish with the cod over it. COD, SALT (au Bedree Roux). Roll a piece of butter in a little flour and powder sugar, and brown it; do some sliced onions in this. When they are a proper colour add a spoonful of vinegar to them, boil up the whole once, and pour it on some flakes of boiled salt cod. Garnish with fried parsley. COD, SALT (A LA Bobdelaise). Take an earthen dish that will bear fire, and put into it some olive oil. Butter a couple of anchovies, parsley, scallions, shallots,and garlic, all chopped small, and two or three slices of lemon; put it on the fire, and when of a proper consistence put in the fish; let it soak and boil slowly for half an hour; then grate bread over it, brown it with a salamander, and serve it hot. COD, SALT (with Capees and Anchovies). Boil the cod as usual, and when done drain and dish it. Pour over it some caper and anchovy sauce. COD, SALT (A la Ceeme). Soak and boil the fish A la Maitre d'Hotel; melt some butter in a stewpan, with some flour, pepper, nutmeg, and garlic; thicken it with the yolks of three eggs ; and add a glass of cream and some chopped parsley. Put the flakes of cod into this sauce; let them boil gently for a short time, and serve quite hot; or, when you have put the cod into the sauce, bread and bake it. Take off all the fat before you serve, and add mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, and asparagus heads. COD, SALT, CROQUETTES. Cut some ready-dressed salt cod into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with \ lb. of butter, a spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and half a glass of cream. Put it on the fire; let it boil up once, and stir it, that all may be well mixed, and then let it stand. When cold divide it into 15 or 20 heaps; shape and bread them. Break 4 or 5 eggs, season and beat them well, dip the croquettes into it, bread them a second time, and just before they are wanted fry them in very hot lard. Let them be of a nice colour. Lay them on a cloth a minute, and then place them in a pyramidal form on the bed of fried parsley.COD COD [ 326 ] COD, SALT (Fried). Boil and pull a cod into flakes, and put into it some bechamel. Let it cool in this sauce. Place the flakes in little heaps; bread them; dip each heap into some well-beaten eggs; bread them a second time; fry them of a nice colour; and serve with orange juice and fried parsley. COD, SALT, FRITTERS. Dip some flakes of previously boiled cod into a batter made of wine, sweet oil, and a very little salt; fry, and garnish with fried parsley. COD, SALT (a la Languedocienne). Make a sauce with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, nut- meg, parsley, and sweet herbs minced, half a glass of sweet oil, and some bread crumbled. When suSiciently thick and well flavoured put in the tail of a salt cod, and stew it gently for half an hour. Serve it hot, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over. COD, SALT (a la MAiTRR d'Hotel). Put the fish when soaked, &c., into a fish kettle with cold water. When near boiling skim it, and the moment it does boil take it from the fire, and cover it with a cloth seven or eight minutes; then drain, and place the fish, with parsley, chopped scallions, pepper, nutmeg, a bit of butter, and a spoonful of sweet oil, on a dish. Make it quite hot, and serve immediately. COD, SALT (Marinated and Fried). Having boiled and flaked it, marinate it for two or three hours in a little water, with vinegar, pepper, parsley, scallions, garlic, sliced onions, bits of carrot, and cloves. Drain well, dry, flour, and fry it. Serve with fried parsley. COD, SALT, PIE. Put some flakes of boiled cod (cold) into a puff paste, with butter, pepper, and sweet herbs. When baked take out the herbs, and put into the pie some sauce d la crime. COD, SALT (A. LA Proven^ale). Prepare and boil the cod 1 la Maitre d'Hotel, and put it into a stewpan, with fresh butter, pepper, nutmeg grated, shred parsley and scallions, a little sweet oil, and a clove of garlic; mix this well together, and then put in your fish. Make it quite hot, stirring constantly. Serve with the sauce over it, and a little lemon juice. COD, SALT (en Stinquerque). Take a dish that will bear the fire, and put into it a bit of butter, with some parsley, scallions, garlic, and anchovies (all minced), pepper, and a few Vvfhole capers. On this put a layer of salt cod, then a layer of-the seasoning, and so on altei-nately until the dish is quite full. Cover the whole with bread crumbs, place the dish on a stove, and let it boil a little while. Brown it with a salamander. COD, SALT (au Verd Pre). Boil the fish ill butter and sweet herbs ; dish it, and cover it with parsley chopped very small; squeeze lemon iuice over, and serve it hot without any other seasoning. COD SAUCE. Take a bunch of parsley, chibbal, 2 shallots, 2 cloves, a bay leaf, some mushrooms, and a bit of butter. Soak all together on the fire, adding a small spoonful of flour, and milk or cream sufficient to boil to the consistence of a sauce; then add to it some chopped parsley, first scalded. COD SOUkDS. This is the white skin of the belly, and is reckoned a great delicacy, and may be either boiled, broiled, or fried. Pre- viously to dressing either way they should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a little. COD SOUNDS (Boiled with Gravy). Scald them in hot water, and rub them with salt; blanch them, that is, take off the black, dirty skin ; then set them on the fire in cold water, and let them simmer till they begin to be tender; take them out, flour, and broil them on a gridiron. In the meantime take a little good gravy, a little mustard, and a little bit of butter rolled in flour; give it a boil, and season it with pepper and salt. Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the sauce over them. COD SOUNDS (en Poule). Make a force- meat with some chopped oysters, anchovies, bread crumbs, and a little butter; bind it with two eggs, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Wash and boil in milk and water three or four sounds, and when cold put a layer of the forcemeat on each; roll them up in the form of chickens, and skewer them ; lard, sprinkle flour over, and cook them' gently in a Dutch oven. Serve with oyster sauce. COD, STEWED. Cut the fish into slices an inch thick, lay them in a stewpan, seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, sweet herbs, salt, an onion, \ pint of white wine, and ^,pint of water. Cover the whole closely, and simmer for five or six minutes; then squeeze a lemon over it, and add a few oysters, with the liquor strained, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and one or two blades of mace. Stew gently, and shake the pan often to prevent burning. When done take out the onion and sweet herbs, lay the cod in a warm dish, and strain the sauce over it. COD'S HEAD : To Bake. When cleaned and washed lay it in a dish that has been rubbed with butter. Put therein some sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, 3 or 4 blades of mace, some black and white pepper, a nutmeg bruised, a little lemon-peel, a piece of horseradish, and 1 quart of water. Dust the fish with flour, grate a little additional nutmeg over it, stick butter on different parts, sprinkle raspings of bread thereon, and place it in the oven. When done take the head out of the dish, and put it into another, which set over some boiling water, and cover it thoroughly. In the meantime pourCOD COD [ 327 ] the liquor out of the dish in which it has been baked into a saucepan, and boil it two or three minutes; strain it, and put thereto 1 gill of port wine, 2 spoonsful" of catsup, 1 pint of shrimps, ^pint of oysters, 1 spoonful of mushroom pickle, and ;|:lb. of butter rolled in flour. Stir the whole well, and boil till it thickens; then strain it, and pour it into the dish. Cut some toasted bread into squares, fry them crisply, and place them about the head. Garnish with crisped parsley, lemon, and horseradish. COD'S HEAD: To Eoast. When well cleaned scrape it, and strew salt on it; then put the head into a tin oven or a stewpan before the fire, screened behind, that the heat may act the stronger upon the fish. At the end of half an hour drain off the water, and strew over the head a little nutmeg, cloves, beaten mace, and salt. Flour and baste with butter; then, after letting it stand some time, turn, season, and baste the other side. Do this often, and strew on it crumbs of bread. If the head is large it will take four or five hours. Melt some butter, and mix with an anchovy some of the liver of the fish, boiled and bruised finely, and the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. When this boils strain it, and return it to the saucepan, with a few shrimps or pickled cockles, 2 spoonsful of port wine, and the juice of a lemon. Simmer it a minute or two, put it into the same pan the head was roasted in, and, having stirred it well, replace it once more in the saucepan, and con- tinue to do so till it boils. Put the head in a dish, pour the sauce into a tureen, and serve the whole up quite hot. COD S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Take out the gills and blood, wash the fish clean, and, having rubbed it all over with salt and a glass of vinegar, lay it on a plate. When the water boils throw in a handful of salt, with half a pint of vinegar, after which put in your fish, and let it boil gently half an hour, but if it is large three quarters of an hour will be necessary. On taking it up slip off the skin, set the fish before a good fire, dredge it with flour, and baste it well with butter. When the froth begins to rise strew crumbs of bread over it, and as soon as it is brown dish it up. Garnish with small fish, or oysters fried in butter, berberries, horseradish, and lemon. Serve with lobster, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. CODLIN CREAM. Pare and core twenty codlins ; beat them in a mortar, and put thereto sugar, bread crumbs, and a glass of wine. Stir it thoroughly. CODLIN TART. ■ Scald some codlins; let them stand an hour in the same water covered, which will make them look green; then put them into your tart either whole or quartered. Put iu sugar and a little musk, close it up, and let it bake. Boil a quart of cream with the yolks of four or five eggs, sugar, and a litile musk. When your tart is half baked cut it open, and pour your cream, &c., on the codlins; set it in the oven again for half an hour, then scrape some sugar on it, and serve it up hot. CODLINS : To Preserve Green. Gather them when they are about the size of a large walnut, with the stalks and a leaf or two on them. Put a handful of vine leaves into a pan of spring water; then put a layer of codlins, then one of vine leaves, and so on till the pan is full. Cover it closely to prevent the steam coming out, and set it on a slow fire. When you find them soft take off the skins with a pen- knife, and then put them in the same water with the vine leaves, which must be cold, other- wise they will be apt to crack. Put in a little roche alum, and set them over a very slow fire till they are green, which will be in three or four hours; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days ; then put them into small jars, cover them closely with brandy paper, tie them down tightly, and set them iu a dry place. They will keep all the year. CODLINS, GRILLEES. Take three fresh codlins, egg them over, shake them in flour, and broil them over a moderate fire till done, and of a good colour on both sides; or you may toss them in egg and crumbs of bread as directed for Turbot. Serve with sauce d VEspagnole. CODLINS, PICKLED (oke Mangoes). Make a brine with salt and water strong enough to bear an egg. Take codlins full grown, but not ripe ; let them lie in the brine for ten days, shifting the pickle once in two days; then dry them, and scoop out the cores. Take out the stalks, so that you may put them in again in the room of the core. Fill them with ginger sliced very thin, a clove of garlic, and whole mustard seeds. Put in the piece of apple that belongs to the stalk, and tie it up tightly. Put to them as much white wine vinegar, with cloves of garlic, whole mustard seed, and ginger, as will cover them. Pour this pickle upon them boiling hot every other day for a fortnight or three weeks, and keep them in stone jars. This will imitate the real mango better than cucumber. CODLINS (with Sweet Herbs). Cut a codlin into si# or eight pieces ; core it as clean as possible, and marinate it in melted butter, lemon juice, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped; then lay it on the table dish, with all the mari- nade both under and over it; cover it with bread crumbs, and add small bits of butter, or a few drops melted close to each other; bake it inCOF [ 328 ] COF the oven. It will require but a short time baking. COFFEE. {See Breakfast.) Coffee is a pleasant, wholesome, and cheap beverage, made from the roasted and bruised grain of a tree which formerly grew only in Arabia Felix. But about 1690 the Dutch planted some of the seeds in Batavia, whence it was carried to the West Indies; so that 40,000,000lbs. are now im- ported into the United Kingdom, and about 20,000,0001bs. consumed at home. On the whole, about a sixth is brought from the east, and perhaps not a sixth of this from Arabia. The entire production is full 250,000,000 lbs. Coffee is the seed of an evergreen shrub from fifteen to twenty feet high. The leaves are four or five inches long, and two broad; smooth, green, glossy on the upper surface ; and the flowers, which grow in bunches, are white and sweet-scented. The berries and fruit are of an oval shape, about the size of a cherry, and of a dark red colour when ripe. Each contains two cells, and each cell a single seed, which is the coffee as we see it before it is roasted. Coffee is an article of but recent introduction, and the coffee shrub was first planted in Jamaica in 1732. In Arabia the trees are raised from seed sown in nurseries, and afterwards planted out in moist and shady situations on sloping grounds, or at the foot of mountains. Care is taken to conduct little rills of water to the roots of the trees, which, at certain seasons, require to be constantly surrounded with moisture. As soon as the fruit is nearly ripe the water is turned off, lest the fruit should be rendered more succu- lent. In places much exposed to the south the trees are planted in rows, and are shaded from the otherwise too intense heat of the sun by a branching kind of poplar tree. When the fruit has attained its maturity cloths are placed under the trees, and upon these labourers shake it down. They afterwards spread the berries on mats, and expose them to the sun to dry. The husk is then broken off by large and heavy rollers of wood or iron. When the coffee has thus been cleared of its husk it is again dried in the sun, and lastly winnowed with a large fan for the purpose of clearing it from the pieces of husk with which it is intermingled. A pound of coffee is generally more than the produce of one tree ; but a tree in great vigour will produce three or four pounds. The best is imported from Mocha, and this kind, which is denominated Mocha and Turkey coffee, is of a better quality than any which the European colonists are able to raise, owing, as it is supposed, to the difference of climate and soil in which it grows. It is packed in large bales, and when good appears fresh, and of a fine greenish colour. The coffee jnext in esteem to the Mocha is raised in Java, and that of the lowest price is grown in the West Indies and Brazil. The quantity of coffee annually supplied by Arabia is supposed to be upwards of 14,000,000 lbs. ' All Mahommedans drink coffee at least twice a day, very hot, and without sugar. The excel- lence depends, in a great measure, on the skill and attention of roasting. If too little roasted it is devoid of flavour, and if too much it be- comes acrid, and has a burnt taste. It is usually roasted in a cylindi'ical tin box, perforated with numerous holes, and fixed upon a spit, which runs lengthwise through the centre, and is turned by a jack or by the hand. Coffee, as commonly prepared by persons un- acquainted with its nature, is a decoction, and is boiled for some time, under the mistaken notion that the strength is not extracted unless it is boiled ; but the fact is the reverse. The fine aromatic oil which produces the flavour and strength of the coffee is dispelled and lost by boiling, and a mucilage is extracted at the same time which makes it flat and weak. The best modes are to pour boiling water through the biggin or strainer, which is found to extract nearly all the strength, or to pour boiling water upon it, and set it upon the fire, not to exceed ten minutes. As a medicine strong coffee is a powerful stimulant and cordial, and in paroxysms of the asthma is one of the best remedies; but it should be made very strong, and with almost as much coffee as water. In faintness or exhaustion from labour and fatigue, and from sick- ness, coffee is one of the most cordial restoratives. There are coffee machines in which the water is boiled, and the steam penetrates the coffee, and extracts to a great degree the fine aroma. Im- mediately afterwards boiling water is poured over it, and thus the best coffee is made. In Europe coffee is generally roasted in a cylinder, but in Asia open pans or tin plates are used, and if the time allows a boy is em- ployed, who picks out every bean when it has reached the right degree of brownness. The second difference in the Asiatic way of preparing coffee is that they pound the beans, and do not grind them. Asiatic coffee is, on the whole, much better than European, and the difference is probably owing to the different roasting, &c. The Turks and Arabs boil each cup by iiself, and only for a moment. They do not separate the coffee from the infusion, but leave the whole in the cup, and it improves the beverage very much to roast and grind the coffee just before it is used. The Turks drink coffee at all times of the day, and present it to visitors both in the forenoon and afternoon, and the opium eaters live almost entirely on coffee and opium. Beaujour tells of an opium eater who dranlc more than sixty cups of coffee in a day, and[ 329 ] COF COF smoked as many pipes. Coffee has been the favourite beverage of many distinguished per- sonages. The best coffee in the western world is made in France, where it is in universal request. In fact, throughout the continent of Europe it is generally drank. In England coffee is almost always badly made. In the east the coffee- houses, or rather booths, form a very essential part of the social system, all men of leisure as- sembling there. In these places are also to be found the famous story-tellers, who repeat long tales to attentive hearers, who show their interest by exclamations of " God save him!" " Allah deprive him of his eyes," &c., or utter warning cries to alarm the hero when danger awaits him. It often happens that the story is broken off, and continued the next day. In Egypt the drinking of coffee seems to have been at first regarded almost as a religious ceremony. The devotees who introduced it there assembled for the purpose of enjoying it on Monday and Friday evenings, when it was handed round with great solemnity, accompanied by many prayers, and with exclamations of " There is no God but God." They have two different methods of making coffee, one called buniyya, in which the grain and husk are used together, and another called kishariyya, in which the husk is used alone. A dry air and sandy soil best suit coffee; hence the Mocha is still the best, and fifty per cent, in price above any other. The roasting is a very delicate operation, as it is heavy if underdone, and very astringent if overdone. So the mill should not reduce it to powder, only equally break it; it should not be stewed, only scalded. Several kinds of grain treated in like manner make a coarse imitation of coffee, as acorns, beans, wheat, barley, &c. The usual allowance of coffee in England is about i oz. for each person; the Dutch and Germans allow about three times as much. It was formerly boiled up several times, whole black mustard seed added to increase its stimu- lant quality, and then clarified with an egg. At present it is a mere infusion,' the hot water being only run through, and the infusion heated again. Late experiments have shown that the best way of making coffee is to put the ground coffee into a wide-mouthed bottle overnight, and pour rather more than ^ pint of water over each 1| oz. of coffee; to cork the bottle; in the morning loosen the cork, put the bottle into a pan of water, and bring the water to a boiling heat. The coffee is then poured off clear, and the latter portion of it strained; that which is not drank immediately is kept closely stopped, and heated as it is wanted. The coffee should be roasted till only of a cinnamon colour, and closely covered up during roasting. In France this is done in closed iron cylinders, turned over the fire by a handle like a grindstone. The coffee should be coarsely ground soon after it is roasted and quite cool. Its aroma is better preserved by beating it in a mortar. The proportions are usually 1 pint of boiling water to 2 ozs. of coffee. The coffee being put into the water, the coffee-pot fhould be covered up, and left for two hours surrounded by hot cinders, so as to keep up the temperature without making the liquor boil. Occasionally stir it, and after two hours' infusion remove it from the fire, and allow it a quarter of an hour to settle, and when perfectly clear decant it. Isinglass or hartshorn shavings destroy its aroma. COFFEE: To Flavour with Vanilla. Take a handful of oats very clean, and let them boil for five or six minutes in soft water; throw this away, then fill it up with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour; then pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make your coffee, which will acquire by this means the flavour of vanilla, and is most ex- cellent. COFFEE : To Make with Cold Water. Upon 2 ozs. of coffee pour 7 cups of cold water; then boil it until the coffee falls to the bottom. When the froth has disappeared, and it is clear at the top like boiling water, it must be taken off the fire and allowed to stand; but, as it often requires clearing, a little cold water should be poured into it the instant it is taken off the fire from boiling. A quicker method of clearing it is by putting into it a small piece of isinglass. When it has stood a sufficient time to allow it to settle pour off the infusion gently into another coffee-pot: it is then ready for use. After the infusion has been drawn off the grouts or remains may be boiled up again to make coffee for the next day. COFFEE: To Make with Hot Water. Instead of pouring cold water upon the coffee boiling water must be poured on it, taking care not to let the froth run over, which is to be prevented by pouring the water on the coffee by degrees. It is then made the same as the preceding recipe. COFFEE: To Prepare (French Method). 1. Let your coffee be dry, not in the least mouldy or damaged. 2. Divide the quantity to be roasted into two parts. 3. Roast the first part in a coffee roaster, the handle of which must be kept constantly turning until the coffee becomes of the colour of dried almonds or bread raspings, and has lost one-eiglith of its weight.[ r,3o ] COF COF i. Roast the second part until it assumes the fine brown colour of chestnuts, and has lost one- fifth of its weight. 5. Mix the two parts together, and grind them in a coffee mill. 6. Do not roast or make your coffee until the day it is wanted. 7. To 2 ozs. of ground coffee put 4 cups of cold water. Draw off this infusion, and put it aside. 8. Put the coffee which remains in the biggin, three cups of boiling water, then drain it off, and add this infusion to that which has been put aside. By this method you can obtain three cups more. When your coffee is wanted heat it quickly in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let it boil, that the perfume may not be lost by under- going any evaporation; then pour it into cups, whiclr each person may sweeten according to his taste. Particular care should be taken not to make coffee in a tin vessel. It should be made either in a china vessel, or one of delft ware, or in one of silver. For a long time the tin biggins invented by Monsieur de Belloy were made use of; but some person has since improved upon his plan by making them in silver or porcelain, which are found to be much better. COFFEE: To Roast. Coffee should never be roasted but at the precise time of its being used, and then it should be washed with the greatest care, and made of a gold colour rather than a brown one ; above all, take care not to burn it, for a very few grains burnt will be sufficient to communicate a bitter and rancid taste to several pounds of coffee. It is the best way to roast it in a roaster (over a charcoal fire) which turns with the hand, as by that means it is not forgotten, which often is the case when on the spit before the fire. COFFEE, ARTIFICIAL. There have been vaiious preparations of this sort. Hunt's break- fast powder and Dillenius's coffee are merely rye roasted with a little butter. Succory or German coffee is the root of the succory sliced and similarly roasted. Beet-root, beans, rice, acorns, beech mast, currant seeds, gooseberry seeds, holly seeds, fenugreek seeds {Rosetta coffee), chick peas [Egyptian coffee), and broom seeds have all been similarly used ; but the best substitute for genuine coffee is made by similarly roasting the seeds of the yellow iris (Gladiolus luteus). It is called iris coffee and Sylvester's coff'ee. COFFEE BLANC-MANGER. Roast 2 ozs. of the best coffee, grind it, and pour on it a glass of boiling water; let it stand covered closely, and when the coffee is precipitated pour off the infusion, and mix it with 0 ozs. of sugar and i oz. of clarified isinglass. Pound and extract your milk of almonds as directed in Cedrat Br.ANC-MANGER. Divide the liquid, and fill your mould as therein explained. COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a pint of coffee made with water, put in it 1 lb. of loaf sugar, set it on the fire, and boil it to a high degree; then add a full pint of double cream, and let it boil again, keeping continually stirring till it comes to a caramel height. To know when it has come to that point you must have a basin of water by you; dip your finger in it, and put it quickly in your sugar, which will have stuck to it; take a bit of it in your teeth. If it is hard in its cracking take it off—it is sufficiently done. Pour it upon a tin plate, which must be rubbed before with a little butter, or it will stick to the plate; then spread it with a rolling-pin (observe, the rolling-pin should also be rubbed with butter for fear it should stick), and when it is warm you may cut it into squares, lozenges, or any other shaped pastils, and draw a few strokes over them with a knife. COFFEE CHEESE. Having roasted J lb of coffee put it into 2 glasses of boiling milk, cover the infusion, and when about lukewarm pass it through a napkin; then mix it with ^ lb. of powder sugar and 6 drachms of isinglass, and when they are perfectly incorporated strain it again. Put your preparation into the vessel with ice, and as soon as it begins to take mix it with a plate of whipped cream, and finish in the same manner as other cheeses. COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and boil to small thread, or petite lisse, 1 lb. of sugar; take the sugar off the fire, and put into it a cup of coffee; stir it about until it comes to the feather, or grande plume, that the conserve may take the sugar and dry. COFFEE (with Cream). Put 2 spoonsful of coffee with some sugar into 3 pints of cold cream ; boil it for half an hour, and let it stand; beat up the yolks of 8 eggs, strain them through a sieve, and then mix the whole together. Put it in a bain marie to simmer over a slow fire, keeping constantly stirring. Coffee cream (i). Mix 3 cups of good coffee with 1 pint of cream, and sugar ac- cording to taste ; boil them together, and reduce it about one-third. Observe that the coffee must be done as if it was for drinking alone, and settled very clear before you mix it with the cream. COFFEE CREAM (2). Roast 1 oz. of coffee; and put it hot into 11^pint of boiling cream ; boil these together a little ; then take it off, and put in two dried gizzards ; cover this closely, and let it stand one hour; sweeten with double-refined sugar; pass it two or three times through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; put it intoCOF COF [ 331 ] a dish with a tin on the top; set the dish on a gentle stove; put fire on the top upon the tin, and when it has taken set it bj. Serve it cold. COFFEE CREAM (Patissiebe). Infuse J lb. of fresh-roasted coffee in 3 glasses of boiling milk; cover it closely, and when nearly cold pass it through a napkin ; put the infusion by degrees into a stewpan, in which are the yolks of 6 eggs, 2 spoonsful of flour, and a grain of salt. Stir and boil the cream as directed for Cream Pa- tissiere; add to the butter, as therein men- ti6ned, J ib. of powder sugar, and the same of crushed sweet macaroons. COFFEE CREAM (White). Boil for a quarter of an hour a liti-e of good milk with 2 ozs. of roasted coffee, the same quantity of raw coffee bruised, and a small piece of lemon-peel. After having strained the whole through a sieve add to it i lb. of powder sugar, the yolks of 6 and the whites of 3 eggs, beaten together ■with a spoonful of cream; then place the cream upon a dish over a stewpan full of boiling water. When it is set ice it over with sugar, and pass a salamander over it. Let it cool before it is served. COFFEE, CR'EME OF. Roast and grind i lb. of the best coffee, and infuse it for a week in 3 quarts of brandy. At the end of that time distil it in a bain marie, but be careful not to have too much heat, as in that case the coffee is apt to rise, and by that means spoil the liquor. Dissolve 3J lbs. of sugar in the same quantity of water, mix it with the liquor, and then strain it. COFFEE, CUSTARDS OF. Measure 15 of your moulds full of cream, and boil it. Having in the meantime lightly roasted 3 ozs. of coffee, throw it into the boiling cream, cover it closely, and let it infuse for a quarter of an hour; then pass it through a napkin, and proceed as directed in Small Custards. COFFEE EGGS. Make some good strong coffee, let it rest to clear as usual, and sweeten it with sugar according to discretion. Beat up 6 yolks of eggs with about 4 cups of coffee, and sift it. Pour this into little moulds in the form of eggs, or of any other (do not fill them quite), and bake in a mild oven or a Dutch oven, or with a braising pan ; cover between two fires. They are made after this manner in the shape of any fruit or bird if you have the proper moulds either of copper or china, &c. COFFEE, FROTHED. Take i lb. of ground coffee, make a very strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining bag. Having dis- solved f lb. of powder sugar in a pint of double cream and the yolks of 6 eggs, put in the coffee, of which there should be no more than 3 cups, and whip it as directed for Frothed Cream. COFFEE, ICE CREAM. Make ^ pint of strong coffee, and pour it off very clear; mix with it pint of cream, and f lb. of sugar; boil a moment together, and when cold ice it. COFFEE, ITALIAN ICE. Infuse Jib. of roasted coffee in a pint of boiling hot double cream for two houi-s closely covered ; half whip the whites of 9 eggs, and, having strained the cream from the coffee, mix it with them; add ■| lb. of powder sugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then ice it in the usual way. COFFEE JELLY. Roast i lb. of coffee over a moderate fire to a fine yellow. Take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and throw the rest into 3 glasses of nearly boil- ing water; cover it closely, and let it cool. In the meantime boil half a glass of water, and pour it over the small portion of coffee, which should be ground, adding a little isinglass. When perfectly clear pour it on the other infusion, having previously strained it through a silk sieve. Filter the whole, and mix it with | lb. of clarified sugar, 1 oz. of isinglass, and half a glass of kirkschwasser. Finish with ice as usual COFFEE MILK. Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly half a pint of milk a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it. Let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. COFFEE PARFAIT AMOUR. For 4 bottles of brandy take 1 lb. of coffee in powder a little salt, 2 cloves, and a little cinnamon, then mix all together, for twelve hours before you distil it, 2 lbs. of sugar, 2 bottles and ^pint of water, clarified with whites of eggs filtered through paper. COFFEE PASTE. To 1 oz. of gum dragon dissolved in a glass of water put 1 oz. of coffee powder ; sift it in a fine lawn sieve, mix it in a mortar with as much powder sugar as is neces- sary to give it a proper consistence, and finish as all other pastes. COFFEE PASTILS. Take i lb. of pounded loaf sugar; have about the quantity of 2 cups of coffee made with water, which put to your sugar, and mix well till it makes a royal paste a little thickish, that you may take it upon a knife; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a farthing; place them in the stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry, and take them from the paper. You may make them another way, namely, with ground coffee, which you sift very finely through a sieve, then adding a little water to bring it to the proper degree of liquidity the same as the above. COFFEE SUGAR. Put a cup of strong[ 833 ] C OF C 01 cofFee into a preserving pan, and add to it a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to make it thick; put it on a moderate fire, stirring it con- stantly. The moment it begins to bubble take it off, and add 2 spoonsful of powder sugar; stir it with a silver spoon, scraping the sugar from the sides of the pan. As it cools it will thicken and become darker; dry it in a stove, and then pass it through a fine sieve. COFFEE SYRUP. Take 9 lbs. of ground coffee, and infuse one of the pounds in 2 pints of water; let it stand to settle, and when clear pour it off; then with this liquor infuse the other pound of coffee. Boil i lb. of sugar to caramel, colouring it a deep red; then put it into the coffee to dissolve, and pour it into a pipkin, with another ^ lb. of sugar ; carefully close the lid of the pipkin, and let it simmer for eight or nine hours ; then strain it, and when cold put it into bottles, cork and seal them, and keep them in a cool place. When it is wanted for use put some of the syrup into a cup, adding •warm water according to the strength you wish to drink your coffee. The syrup of coffee is most useful in travel- ling, when there is not time or convenience for making coffee in the usual manner. It is the essence of coffee sold by grocers. COFFEE TART. Mix a little flour and cream with 1 or 2 cups of good clear coffee, a bit of sugar, and 3 eggs; boil it about half an hour, stirring it continually for fear it should catch at the bottom; put it into the paste, with ■whites of eggs beaten and frothed upon it, with- out a top crust. COFFEE WAFERS. To a common table- spoonful of ground coffee put | lb. of powder sugar and \ lb. of fine flour; mix them well together with as much cream as will make the paste or batter pour out pretty thickly from the spoon. The paste being prepared, warm the wafer iron on both sides, and rub it over with some butter tied in a linen bag, or a bit of virgin wax ; pour in a spoonful of the batter, and bake it over a smart fire, turning the iron once or twice until the wafer is done on both sides of a fine brown colour. If you would have them twisted put them upon a mould ready at hand for that purpose ; put it up directly as you take it out, and press it to the shape of whatever form you please, and so continue. Always keep them in a warm place. COIN, CURRENT. We copy from the " Penny Cyclopasdia" the following alpha- betically arranged list of coin now current in various countries :— Abassi or Abassee, a Persian coin of the value of 5|d. Abiiguelp or Albuguelp. See Onscio. Albert's Dollar is a coin known in Holland, with its half and quarter, at 50, 35, and 12^ stivers. The term is used also as a money of account at Libau and Riga. The intrinsic value of a metallic Albert's dollar is 4s. Hd. Albus, a small coin and money of account at Cassel, Cologne, and other places in Germany. The value of the albus was less than | d. Altmichlic, a Turkish silver coin of 60 paras, value 3s. Asper, a very small Turkish coin and money of account: 120 aspers = 1 piastre. August d'Or, a gold coin of Saxony, double, single, and half; reckoned at 10, 5, and 2^ rix- doUars. The august of 1754 was worth 16s. 2d.; that of 1784, 16s. Sfd. iJa^atf two, a Venetian copper coin, a half-soldo. Bajoccho or Soldo, a copper coin at Rome, Bologna, &c., divided into 12 denarii, or 5 quat- trini. Worth a trifle more than a ^d. There are also double and single bajocchelli at 4 and 2 bajocchi. Bajoire, a silver coin of Switzerland of 3 livres 15 sols current. Barbone, a silver coin in Lucca of 12 soldi, half and quarter in proportion. The barbone is worth rather more than 4d. Basarucco, a small tin coin current at G oa on the Malabar coast. These are called bad basa- ruccos. There are others called good ones of copper. All the coins of Goa are of the same two descriptions and denominations. Batzen, a base silver coin in Switzerland, and also in some parts of Germany, as at Augsburg. At Basle a good batzen is 4 creutzers ; a Swiss batzen, 2 sous, or 3* creutzers. Each batzen contains 10 rappen. Silver pieces of 40 and 20 batzen, and base silver pieces of 10 and 5 batzen, were published under the Helvetic republic be- tween 1798 and 1803. The Swiss batzen is nearly l^d. English. Bendiky, a gold coin of Marocco of the value of 9s. Beslich, a Turkish silver coin, worth about 3s 2id- Bit or Bitt, a small coin in the West Indies, worth 5|^d. Blaffert, a small coin at Cologne, worth 4 albuses. Blankeel or Blanquello, a small coin and money of account in Marocco. It is worth about Id. Bolognino, a copper coin at Bologna and its neighbourhood, the same with the bajoccho, Borbi or Burbi, a coin in Egypt of copper, 8 of which go to a medino. Borbies are also current at Tunis. Borjookes, the name for the glass beads which pass as small money in Abyssinia. CagHareso, a copper coin in Sardinia. Cahaun. See Cowries.COI COI [ 833 ] Carlino, a small coin and money of account in the kingdom of Naples and in Sicily. It contains 10 grani, worth 4f d. In Piedmont the carlino is a gold coin. Coined before 1785 it was of the assayed value of ^65 18s. 8d.; subsequent to that year, £b 12s. 3d. The half, &c., in proportion. Carolin d'Or, or simply Carolin, a gold coin of Bavaria, Hesse-Darmstadt, and Wirtemberg, value 20s. 4|d. Cask, a small coin in China, and India beyond the Ganges. It is the only coin used in China. It is not coined but cast. It is composed of 6 parts of copper and 4 of lead; round, marked on one side, and rather raised at the edges, with a square hole in the middle. These pieces are commonly carried like beads on a string or wire. A tale in account of fine silver should be worth 1000 cash, or about 6s. 8d.; but on account of their convenience for common use their price is sometimes so much raised that only 750 cash are given for the tale. Cash is sometimes called Caxa. In Sumatra cash are small pieces of tin or lead, 2500 of which go to a mace. Cent or Centime, a money of account in the new system of France, and a coin in the United States of North America. In France the cen- time is the hundredth part of the franc. In the money of the United States the cent is the hundredth part of a dollar, and contains 208 grains of copper. Half-cents are coined in the same proportion. Chaye, a small silves coin of Persia of the value of 2Jd. Commassee, a small copper coin, containing a little silver, made use of at Betelfagui, or Betle- fackee, in Arabia. Copang or Cohan. The old copangs weigh 371 Dutch asen, or 275 English grains, and the gold is said to be 22 carats fine. This would give 362 4s. 7d. sterling for the value of the old copang; but it must be observed that the Japanese coins are reckoned at Madras only 87 touch, which is 20ff carats, and this reduces the value of the old copang to ^£2 Is. lOd. sterling. The new copangs weigh 180 English grains, and the gold is about 16 carats fine, which gives their value 21s. 3d. sterling. Copeck. See Kopek. Coronilla or Ve'mten de Oro, a Spanish coin of gold of the value of 4s. Old. Cowries. Kelly, under ' Calcutta in Bengal,' says, ' Accounts are sometimes kept in the in- ferior departments of business in cowries, a species of small sea-shells, which, as long as they remain unbroken, are used as money in small payments; and 2560 cowries are generally reckoned for a current rupee ; but they have intermediate divisions : thus 4 cowries make 1 gunda; 20 gundas, 1 punn; 4 punns, 1 anna; 4 annas, 1 cahaun ; and 4 cahauns, 1 current rupee; but the last proportion is variable. Cowries are also used for money pt Scindy on the Malabar coast, at Siam on the farther pe- ninsula, and in Guinea, where 2000 of these shells are called a macuta.' Cox, a small Persian coin in copper : 10 coz- baugues or coz make a shahee. Crazia, a small silver coin in Tuscany. Crimbal, a small coin in the West India Islands, called also Isle du Vent Bits, which pass for 7^d. currency. Crown. In England Henry VIII. was the first king who coined a crown in gold. He afterwards struck some patterns for a crown in silver; but Edward VI. was the first who coined the silver crown and half-crown for currency. From Elizabeth to William IV. the silver crown and half-crown have been struck in every reign. The croone, or crown, was formerly a coin of the Netherlands; those after 1755 were estimated at 2 florins 14 stivers of exchange, or 3 florins 3 stivers current. It was also a coin of Denmark; double, single, and half-crowns were reckoned at 8, 4, and 2 marks crown money, or 8 marks 8 skillings, 4 marks 4 skillings, and 2 marks 2 skillings current. Crusado, a coin in Portugal, both in gold and silver. Of the gold crusados there are two kinds, the old crusado coined at 400 rees, the new crusado at 480 rees ; the silver crusado, also of 480 rees, has its half, quarter, and eighth. The value of the old crusado was 2s. 5d.; of the new, both gold aad silver, 2s. 7d. Daalder, a Dutch silver coin, or 30 stiver piece, worth in sterling 2s. 6Jd. Daezajie, a silver coin of Persia, of the value of 5 mamoodis, worth about 15d. Decime, a money of account and coin in the revolutionary system of France. Ten decimes make the franc, or 100 centimes. Copper pieces of one and two decimes are still current. Denaro, a money of account in most parts of Italy. Denier. It wasr the 240th part of the livre, or French pound. Denushka, a Russian copppr coin, half a kopek. Dime, a money of account and silver coin in America, is the tenth part of a dollar. There are also half-dimes ; both coined in 1796, worth 5id. and 2|d. Dittoholo, a copper coin in the Ionian Islands, the double of the obolo or cent. The cent is worth ^d. nearly. Diivani or Para, a money of Abyssinia. Dohra or Dobraon, a Portuguese gold coin. Kelly says the old dobra coined before 1722 at 20,000 rees has since become worth 24,000 ; the dobra struck since 1722 is of 12,800 rees.[ 334 ] COI COl There is also a half-dobra of 6,400 rees, like- wise called a Joaiiese. The sterling value of the later dobra, according to the mint price of gold in England at ^63 17s. lO^^d. per ounce, is £2, lis. O^d. Dog, a small coin of Hd. Leeward currency, used in the French West India Islands, called also the noir. Doit or Duyt, a small Dutch copper coin, the eighth part of a stiver, in value half a farthing. Dollar. The dollar of the United States of North America, weighing 416 grains of standard silver, is valued at 4s. 4d. English. It has on the edge ' one dollar or unit hundred cents,' and has its divisions of half and quarter. By an act of 1837 the silver dollar of the United States is required to contain 412 grains of standard silver of which one-tenth is alloy, which is now the proportion in all coins of the United States, whether of silver or gold. The Spanish dollar of the old sort, before a new coinage took place in 1772, was of the sterling value of 4s. 4|d. Till then there were dollars of two denominations, the Mexican and the Sevillan dollar. That which is at present generally circulated as the Spanish dollar is really of the sterling value of 4s. 3|d. It passes in Spain for 20 reals vellon. The rix- dollar of the north of Europe is termed Thaler by the Germans; Pezza is the Italian, and Piastre the Turkish dollar. See Rix-dollar. Doodee and Half Doodee, copper pieces of 10 Lnd 5 cash, current at Madras. They are struck in England. Dojjpia or Pistole, an Italian gold coin, of which the value varies in different states. Kelly says, among the prices current at Genoa July 20th, 1807, the Roman doppia was at 20 lire 14 soldi; Parma, ditto, 26 lire 14 soldi; Piedmont, ditto, old, 35 lire 8 soldi; ditto, new, 34 lire 15 soldi. At Milan the value of the doppia was fixed by an imperial edict in 1786 at 25 lire 3 soldi cor- renti. Its English value is about 15s. 7d. ster- ling. In the Piedmontese territory the older doppia has been long out of currency. The present is of 24 lire; the half, &c., in propor- tion. The old Piedmontese doppia of 1741 to 1785 was of the value of £1 3s. 9d. sterling; that after 1785, £1 2s. l^L The Parma doppia of 1787 was worth 17s. 7id.; that of 1796, 16s. 10|d. Doppietta, or gold scudo, a coin of Sardinia of 5 lire. Doreea, a coin and money of account in Bom- bay; the coin is of copper, with a mixture of tin or lead. Doiihla, a silver coin of Tunis, valued at 24 aspers. Doubloon, a Spanish gold coin, the ancient value of which was changed in the coinage which took place in 1772, wtien the former pieces were called in. The old doubloon was of the value of £3 6s. 5^; that of 1772, £3 5s. lOd. The double and the half of each in proportion. Ducat, Dutch, a gold coin of the value of 5 guilders 2 stivers. English value 8s. 9d. Ducat, German, also a gold coin, the rate of coinage of which, although each state has its own ducats, is nearly the same all over Germany. Kelly says, according to the mint price of gold in England as already stated, the ducat of Ba- varia is worth 9s. 4Jd.; of Brunswick, 9s. 2d.; of Cologne, 9s. 3Jd. ; Denmark, 9s. 3id.; Frankfort, 9s. 4id. ; Hamburgh, 9s. 4^d.; Hanover, 9s. 5|d.; Hesse-Darmstadt, 9s. 5d.; Mannheim, 9s. 4|d. ; Niirnberg, 9s. 3^d. ; Prussia of 1748, 9s. 4id.; of 1787, 9s. 33d.; Treves, 9s. 3|d.; Wirtemberg, 9s. 2Jd.; Wiirz- bei-g, 9s. Sfd. Ducat, Russian, originally worth 2|^ rubles; the double 4^; but in 1764 their value was raised, the double ducat to 5 rubles 60 kopeks, and the single to 2 rubles 80 kopeks. Kelly rates the sterling value of the Russian ducat of 1751 at 9s. Hd.; of 1763 at 9s. 3Jd.; and that of 1796 at 9s. 5d. This also had its double and half. According to the table of Russian moneys given in Leigh's ' Guide to Moscow,' 12mo., London, 1835, the gold ducat of Russia at present goes for 8s. 4d. Ducat, Swedish, of gold, of the value of 1 rix- dollar 46 skillings, of the sterling value of 9s. ^i. Ducat, the Italian, is a silver coin and money of account at Naples, Venice, and other places, value in sterling nearly 3s. 6d. The Venetian silver ducats of a former time varied both in weight and fineness. In weight from 13 dwts. 18 grs. to 14 dwts. 19 grs. Ducatello, an Egyptian silver coin, current at Alexandria, for 10 medini. Ducatone or Giustina, a silver coin of Venice of 11 lire, worth 4s. 6jd. Ducatoon, a Dutch silver coin, at 63 stivers, or a little more. English value 5s. 54d. Dudu, called by the English Dubs, a copper coin in use in the Mysore country and at Pondi- cherry. In the latter place 20 of them are reckoned to a fanam. Eagle, an American gold coin of the value of 10 dollars, or units. Its intrinsic value in English gold was nearly £2 3s. 8d. None, however, have been coined at the American mint for many years. By an act of 1792 the eagle was to be of the standard weight of 270 grs., viz., 247| grs. of fine metal, and 22i grs. alloy. By an act of 1837, when coined it is to be of 258 grs. standard weight, viz., 232j fine metal, and 25| alloy. The half and quarter eagle in proportion.[ 335 ] COI COI Ecu. a silver coin in the old system of France, and also at Geneva and other places in Switzer- land. In France it was of 6 livres, and the Petit Ecu, or half-crown, of 3 livres. The ecu or patagon of Geneva was worth 3 livres, or 10^ florins. Those coined in ] 796 were of the English value of 4s. 9d. Escalin. The escalin or shilling was formerly a hase silver coin in the Netherlands, at 6 stivers of exchange, or 7 stivers current. Of the English value of 6d., and its double in pro- portion. Escudo, a Spanish gold coin of 40 reals vellon. Fanam, a small coin in the East Indies, both of gold and silver. The gold ones are only of 111 carats fine, and are alloyed chiefly with silver. Twenty-four of these are reckoned for an old Negapatam pagoda, which went for 8s. The silver fanam of Bombay is worth about 4fd.; that of Pondicherry 3|d. Faruki, a gold coin of Mysore, struck by Tippoo Saib, of the sterling value of 7s. lid. A variety of the pagoda. Filippo or Philip, an old silver coin of Milan, worth about 4s. 8Jd. Florin, a money of account and silver coin in Holland, Belgium, England, and Germany, called also gulden and gulden, and by corrup- tion gilder or guilder. The florin of Holland and Bavaria is worth about Is. Bjd.; the heavy (or miinz) gulden of Austria and the silver florin of England are worth 2s. Florin is also a gold coin at Hanover and in other parts of Germany, though chiefly current in the countries on the banks of the Rhine, passing generally for 2 rix-dollars current. Assay value about 6s. lid. Forli, a small copper coin of Egypt. Fouang, a silver coin of Siam, estimated at 800 cowries. Franc, a money of account and silver coin in the new system of France, and still more re- cently introduced into Belgium, with its double, quintuple, and lower proportions. Of the value of rather more than 9^d. It weighs 77-17 grs., and contains 69-453 grs. of pure silver. The French franc and livre were formerly synony- mous, but in the coinage of 1795 the franc was made too heavy, and its value was accordingly raised 1^ per cent.: thus 80 francs = 81 livres. A Swiss franc, containing 10 batzen, is equal to \^ French franc, nearly Is. 2d. Francescone, a silver coin in Tuscany of 10 paoli or 6| lire; its value in sterling was 4s. 6d. Frederick or Frederick d'Or, a gold coin in Prussia, worth ] 6s. Sjd. There are also double and half Fredericks. Fyrke, a money of account and copper coin in Denmark; the half-skilling. Gall, the only coin of Cambodia, a small piece of silver, with characters on one side only ; worth about 4d. sterling. Ganza, a small coin in some parts of India beyond the Ganges, a mixture of copper, lead, and tin ; worth usually about 1 Jd. sterling. Genovina, a coin of Genoa, both in gold and silver. Before the year 1790 the Genovine d'oro were coined at 100 lire ; halves, quarters, and eighths in proportion. The Genovine of full weight in silver were at 9 lire 10 soldi; light Genovine, weighing 32| denari, were at 9 lire. In ] 790 a new coinage took place, consisting of gold Genovine at 96 lire ; halves, quarters, and eighths, at 48, 24, and 12 lire; and silver scudi or Genovine at 8 lire ; halves, quarters, and eighths in proportion. Genoa being united to France in 1804, the French coins were introduced there, but the Genoese coins were still allowed to cir- culate, and the coinage of them to continue. The assay value of the Genovina of 100 lire was £3 9s. 9d. sterling; that of the Genovina of 1790, £3 3s. 4d. George d'Or, of Hanover, at 4f rix-dollars in cash, or 5 rix-dollars gold value. Of the value of 16s. 4id. Gilder or Guilder. See Florin. Giulio, a small coin of base silver in Italy; half a lira. Giustina. See Ducatone. Gourde, the name given to the Spanish dollar in the islands of Martinique, St. Lucia, Guada- loupe, &c. Grieven or Grievener, a small Eussian sUver coin, worth about 6d. Griscio or Albuguelp, an Egyptian silver coin of 30 medini. Groschen, Good (Gut), a small coin and money of account in Prussia, Hanover, and other parts of Germany. A good groschen is 3 matthiers; a marien-groschen 2 matthiers : the former worth l^d. English, the latter l/^d. Grossetti, coins of Ragusa of base silver, reckoned of the same value as the paras of Constantinople. Grote, a small coin and money of account at Bremen: 24 grotes make i of a specie rix- dollar. Guilder. See Florin. Gulden. See Florin. Haser Denarie, a silver coin of Persia of 10 mamoodis. Imperial, a Russian gold coin of 40 rubles ; it has its half. The English mint value of the imperial coined before 1763 has been given at £2 Is. 6d.; the imperials of 1763 and 1772 at £1 12s. 9id.; the half-imperial of 1780 at 15s. 4d.; the imperial of 1801 at £1 12s. 2id. The present value is 33s. 4d., and of the half 16s. 8d.COI [ 330 J COI Itchebo, or Itjib, the smallest of gold coins of Japan, valued at about 15 mas. Joanese, Johanes, or Joe, a Portuguese gold coin of 6400 rees, of the value of £1 15s. 11 Jd. Kaisergroschen, a money of account and base silver coin in Bohemia and some parts of Ger- many. In Bohemia the kaisergroschen is some- times called bohmen. In Bavaria it is of the value of 3 and sometimes 4 kreutzers. Kodama, a little globular piece of silver, bearing the figure of a Japanese deity, with several letters. Kopek or Copeck, a money of account and copper coin in Russia, answering to a penny English. There are pieces of 10, 5, 2, and :J kopeks; likewise of 25, 20, 15, 10, and 5 kopeks in silver, answering to lOd., 8d., 6d., 4d., and 2d. Kreutzer, Creutzer, or Cruitzer, a small copper coin and money of account in many parts of Germany, worth ^ of a penny. Sixty kreutzers go to a silver florin of Holland or Bavaria. Larin, an old coin and money of account in Persia and Arabia, of 2^ mamoodis. It consists of a silver wire, about half an inch in length, doubled up, and flattened on one side to receive the impressions of some characters. Leopoldone, a silver coin of Tuscany, similar to the francescone ; that of 1790 was of the assay value of 4s. 5|d. Liard, a small French copper coin in the old system of France, of the value of 3 deniers. Lira, a silver coin of Italy, particularly at Milan and Venice. At Milan it was to wei^ 4 denari, or f oz. Pieces of 1^, 1, and i lira were coined at Venice in 1802, consisting (in Austrian money) of 18, 12, and 6 kreutzers, which contained only J of fine silver. This money was called moneta di nuovo stampo. The lira of Milan is stated by Kelly to be of the assay value of 7Jd.; the lira of Venice, 2^d. and 2Jd. Lirazza, base silver pieces, current at Venice, of 30, 20, 15, 10, and 5 soldi. Livoriiina, an old silver coin of Leghorn, value 4s. 5id. Louis, a gold coin of Malta, double, single, and half, coined by the Grand-master Rohan, at 20, 10, and 5 scudi copper or current money. The value of the double louis in sterling was £1 18s. l^d.; of the louis, 19s. l|d.; and the half louis, 9s. 7id. Louis Blanc, the name for the old ecus of silver coined in France before 1726, at the rate of 9 pieces to the mark of 10 deniers 22 grains fine. Louen Dollar, or Lyon Dollar, an old Dutch eilver coin at 42 stivers, or a little more. It was I of the ducatoon. Mace, a small gold coin in Sumatra, weighing 9 grains, and worth about 14d. sterling. Madonnina, a silver coin of Genoa of 20 soldi. There were formerly double and half madounine of 40 and 10 soldi. The double madonnina was of the value of Is. 4^d. Mahbub, a gold coin, the only one which is struck at Tunis, called also sultanin, valued at 4|- piastres, with half and quarter. Mamoodi or Mamoudi, a money of account and silver coin of Persia. The mamoodi of Gombroon contains I silver and | copper, and is worth nearly 3d. The mamoodi of Bassora is worth about 5^d. Mark, a silver coin in Hamburg. There is also a double mark, or 32-schiinug3 piece. The mark is worth Is. 2f d. Matthier, a copper coin of Brunswick, equal to 4 pfennigs or 8 hellers. Max d'Or or Maximilian, a gold coin of Bava- ria, value 13s. 74d. Medin or Medina, a coin and money of account in Egypt. Kelly says at Cairo 40 medini are valued at Is. 7^d. Mirliton, an old French gold coin. Moco, a small silver coin in the West Indies, which consists of a round piece cut out of the centre of the Spanish dollar. It is sometimes J and sometimes f of the dollar. Mohur, a coin of gold in the East Indies. The mohur or gold rupee of the Emperor Shah Allum, 1770, was of the value of £1 13s. Ofd.; the mohur of the same, 1787, £1 13s. 4i-d.; the sicca gold mohurof Bengal of 1789,^61 13s. 7d.; the old Bombay mohur, £1 10s. Id.; Surat mohur of the latest coinage, £1 9s. 2^d.; Tip- poo's gold rupee, £1 12s. Ifd.; mohur of the Dutch East India Company, 1783, £1 12s. Hd.; ditto, 1797, £1 10s. lOjd. Some of these had halves and quarters in proportion. A mohur in India now is usually calculated as worth 16 rupees, or ^1 12s. Moidore or Lisbonnine, an old gold coin of Portugal of the value of £1 6s. ll^d. sterling. It had its half, &c., in proportion. Murajola, a small silver coin used at Bologna, double and single, of 4 and 2 soldi. Napoleon, a gold coin in the new system of France, the successor of the louis dor, of the value of 20 francs. The value is 15s. lOd., and of its double, or 40-franc piece, £\ lis. 8d. The napoleon weighs 99-564 grains, and contains 89-61 grains of pure gold. Noir. See t)og. Oban, the largest gold coin of Japan, three times the value of the copang. Oiiza, a Sicilian coin of the value of 30 tari, each tare being sub-divided into 20 graui. Its value is about 10s. 3id. Ore, a money of account and copper coin in Sweden. Osella, a silver medal rather than a coin ofCOI COI [ 337 ] Venice, formerly distributed by the government. Kelly says, however, they have been circulated at 8 lire 18 soldi. He gives the value in sterling at Is. 7Jd. Pagoda, a gold coin on the Coromandel coast, in the East Indies. Kelly enumerates several kinds, with the assay value of each annexed, viz., the star pagoda, of the value of 7s. 5^d.; old A root pagoda, 7s. 2d.; new Arcot pagoda, 5s. 8|d.; Onore pagoda, 7s. lOd.; Mangalore pagoda, 7s. lOJd.; pagoda with a crescent and one figure, 7s. 6d.; pagoda of Pondicherry, 6s. 5d.; Hyderee boon, or pagoda, 7s. 8d.; Sultannee boon, or pagoda, 8s. 5d.; Tippoo's farufei, 7s. 11-^d. Paolo, a small silver coin at Florence, Rome, and other places in Italy, with its double, half, and quarter. The value of the paolo is 5^d. Papetla, a small silver coin of Pujme, value lOid. Para, a small Turkish coin of the value of three aspers. Forty paras=1 piastre. Pardo or Pardao, a silver coin and money of account at Goa. Asa coin it is worth four good tangas, equal to 2s. 6d. sterling. Tiiere are pardo-xerapbins of five good tangas. A xerapbin is worth 3s. l^d. Pataca, a silver coin of Brazil of 600 and 640 rees, current only in that country. Kelly gives the sterling value of two or three sorts : the old pataca of Brazil of 640 rees, 3s. l^d.; pataca of 600 rees, 1755, 2s. lO^d. ; ditto of 640 rees, 1768, 2s. lO^d.; ditto of 640 rees, 1801 (half, quarter, &c., in proportion), os. Oid. Patagon or Patacon, called also Ecu, a silver coin in Switzerland, and also at Liege. In Switzerland its value is 3 livres 6 sous, or 33 batzen. At Liege it is worth 4s. 4d.; at Berne, 4s. 9id, Peceta, a Spanish silver coin. The old Mexi- can peceta of two Mexican reals, 1736, was of the value in sterling of Is. Id.; the peceta of two reals of plate, 1721, and the peceta of two reals of new plate, 1775, lOd.; Mexican peceta, 1774, Is. Ofd. Penny, English. The oldest of our coins. It has always been the 240th part of the money pound. Perpero, a silver coin of Eagusa of 12 grossetti. Pfennig, a Prussian coin, worth one-tenth of an English penny. Piastre, a money of account and a silver coin in Turkey and the Levant; it is, in fact, the Turkish dollar. The piastre of Mustapha III., 1757, was of the sterling value of Is. lO^d.; the piastre of Abdul-Hamed, 1773, Is. 8id.; another of the same period, Is. 10|d. ; the piastre of Selim, 1801, Is. l^d.; the piastre of Crim Tartary, 1778, Is. 0|d.; piastre of Tunis, 1787, Is. 1 Jd.; the piastre of Smyrna of 1808. 12id. Pice, a money of account and a copper coin in the East Indies, the latter a mixture of tin and lead, current at Bombay. Piece of Eight, the Spanish dollar; also a money of account in what used to be the Danish West India Islands. Pistereen or Piastrine, the name given in the West Indies to the Spanish pecetas. Kelly says pistereens, or two-bit pieces, which are Spanish pecetas, pass for Is. 3d. currency, and are worth lO'd. sterling. He adds, English shillings and sixpences occasionally pass here for pistereens and bits. Pistole, German. Under this name are in- cluded the old Saxon August d'Or, Prussian Frederick d'Or, Brunswick Carl d'Or, Hano- verian George d'Or, Danish Holstein Christian d'Or, and the pistoles of Hesse, the palatinate, Ilildesheim, and Mecklenburg, all reckoned at 5 rix-dollars current. Kelly saj's 35 pieces of each of these sorts of money are to weigh a Cologne mark of fine silver. An allowance is, however, generally made for deficiency in weight and fineness, and they are current in most places as long as 35^ pieces weigh a Cologne mark of gold, 21| carats fine; they are then called passier pistoles. Pistole, Italian. See Doppia. Pistole, Spanish. See Doubloon. Pistole, Swiss. The old pistole of Geneva ■was of 11 livres 10 sols; the later pistole, coined after 1752, 10 livres current, or 35 florins, with double and triple pistoles in pro- portion. By a law of the diet of the Plelvetic Confederacy of 1804, such of the cantons aa wished to have them were to regulate the coinage in such a manner that the franc might contain 81 Swiss grains of fine gold. The sterling value of the old pistole of Geneva, ac- cording to Kelly, was 16s. 4Jd.; of the new or later pistole, lis. 2d. The pistole of Lucerne, as well as that of the Helvetic Republic of 1800, was worth 18s. 9d.; that of Soleure, 18s. lO^d. Pities, small coins in tho Isle of Java, the only money of the natives, containing four parts of lead and one of tin : 25 of these pass for two doits, or duyts. Placket or Plaquette, a silver coin in the Netherlands of 3i- stivers current. Old pieces of this denomination pass for 2i stivers. Value in sterling 23d. Plates, the denomination given to certain large copper coins formerly used in Sweden. Kelly says the large copper pieces of the value of 4, 3, 2, 1,1-, and i silver dabler, or 12, 9, 6, 3, 2] , and 1^ koppar dahler, weighing 7J, 5|, 3g, 2|, Ig, 1^, and gib. of the victualie or common weight, are no longer considered as a legal coin, but asCOI COI [ 338 ] a sort of merchandise, which every one is at liberty to sell or export after paying the duty on exportation. These in general, but more particularly the 2-dahler pieces, are called plates. Plott, a silver coin formerly used in Sweden, J of the rix-doUar, of the value of Is. 6d. ster- ling. Poltin, Poltina, Popoltin, Eussian silver coins of 50 and 25 kopeks, the half and quarter ruble. The poltin of the Empress Anne was of the value of Is. 9d.; that of Elizabeth, Is. lOd.; of Catha- rine II., Is. 7^d.; of Paul, Is. T^d.; of Alex- ander, Is. 7d. The halves in proportion. Polturat, a coin of Hungary, which, with the groschels and pfennigs, sometimes contains a little silver, and sometimes consists entirely of copper. PolushJca, a copper coin of Eussia, a quarter kopek. Quadruple, the doubloon of 8 escudos, or qua- druple pistole of Spain. Its value in English gold coin has been stated to be a63 4s. O^i. Quattrino, a copper coin in Italy of 4 denari di lira. At Eorae 5 quattrini make 1 paolo. Hagusina. See Talaro. Hathsprcesentger, a silver coin of Aix-la-Cha- pelle, double, single, and half, of 32, 16, and 8 marks, value Is. 4^d., 8d., and 4d. Ree, a Portuguese money of account. The gold milree (or piece of 1000 rees), which was coined for the African colonies in 1755, was of the value of 3s. 2^d.; hut the milree is gene- rally valued at about 5s. Real. There are three small Spanish silver coins called reals, namely, the real of Mexican plate, the real of provincial plate, and the real vellon; the two former are worth about 5d., the real vellon 2|d. sterling. Rix-dollar (a corruption of the German Reichs- thaler), a money of account and silver coin in Holland, Germany, Denmark, and Sweden. At Amsterdam a rix-dollar is worth 2^ gilders, 50 stivers, or 800 pfennigs, equal to 8s. 4d. Flemish. In Germany the rix-dollar is worth 2 florins. The assay varies, but the general value, English, is 4s. 2d. In 1813 a new mone- tary system was introduced into Denmark. Two of the new rigsbank dollars equal one of the old specie dollars, and the new dollar is divided into 6 marks of 16 skillings each: its value is about 2s. 3Id. Roubbie, a Turkish gold coin, the third of the sequin, which is called mahbub. Roup, a Turkish silver coin of 10 paras. Ruble or Rouble, a money of account and a platinum and silver coin in Russia. The plati- num coins are a six-rouble piece, value 18s. 6d., and a three-rouble piece, of 9s. 3d. Of the silver roubles there is the old rouble before 1763, worth 3s. 6d.; the new rouble, since 1763, worth 33. Id.; with the halves of each in the same proportions. Rundstyck, a Swedish money of account and copper coin of 1 ore koppar; there are also half-run dstycken. Rupee, a money of account and silver coin in the East Indies. The coins, which were formerly struck at the Calcutta mint, were sicca rupees, also called silver rupees, and gold mohurs, some- times called gold rupees: 16 of the former, by regulation, were to pass for one of the latter. The silver rupee had its half. Kelly says, " The old Bombay rupee was the same as that formerly coined at Surat under the mogul; it weighed 178 314 English grains, and contained 1-24 per cent, of alloy. By an agreement of the English government with the nabob of Surat the rupees coined by both were to circulate at an equal value; and they mutually pledged themselves to keep up the coin to its exact standard of weight and fineness. The nabob's rupees, how- ever, were soon after found to contain 10, 12, and even 15 per cent, of alloy, in consequence of which most of the Bombay rupees were melted down and re-coined at Surat. The coinage of silver in the Bombay mint was suspended for twenty years, and the Surat rupees were the only ones seen in circulation. At length, in 1800, the Company ordered the Surat rupee to be struck at Bombay, and since that period the rupees of both places have been kept at an equal value, weighing 179 English grains, and valued at 2s. 3d. In the Company's financial accounts submitted to Parliament the Bombay rupee is reckoned at this value, and there it bears a batta of 16 per cent, against current rupees." Kelly, "Universal Cambist," 2nd edit., 4to., 1821, vol. i., p. 170, gives a large list of rupees, with their assay and value in sterling, varying from Is. lOd. to 2s. Ofd. The rupee of Persia is a piece of 10 mamoodies. Ruspono, a gold coin of Tuscany, a piece of 3 sequins, weighing 8 denari 21 grani, Florence weight, and passing for 40 lire or 60 paoli. Value in sterling, £1 8s. 5id. Ryder or Ruyder, called also Standpenning, a gold coin of Holland. By a regulation of 1749 its value was fixed at 14 florins. Value £\ 4s. lOd. Ryksort, a Danish silver coin at 24 skillings. Schilling or Skilling, also called Shilling and Escalin, a money of account and copper or base silver coin in several parts of Germany, at 1^ pfennigs. Schuit, a silver ingot used as money in Japan. It is of the value of £1 5s. 3d. Scudino, a gold coin of Modena of 9 lire. Scudo, a money of account and a silver coin in many parts of Italy, at Sicily, and Malta. The scudo of Eom.e is worth 4s. 4d.COI COI [ 339 ] Sechsling, a copper coin of Hamburg of 6 pfennigs. Sennis or Cashes are small pieces of iron, copper. Of brass, having a square hole in the middle, through which, as in China, they are strung on a wire or thread in various numbers, 600 of the smallest being reckoned for a tale. Sequin or Zecchin, Italian, called also Gi- gliato, a gold coin of Venice, Genoa, Rome, Milan, Piedmont, and Tuscany, of the average value of 9s. 5d. Sequin or Checqueen, Turkish. The gold coins of Turkey are the sequin funducli, with halves and quarters; the double sequin, or yermee- beeshlik, the misseir, and the rubich. There are other sequins beside the above, which bear different names, and their values also vary ac- cording to the periods of their coinage. Sesthalf, or 5^-stiver piece, a base silver coin in Holland, or base shilling ; value, 5 Jd. Shahee or Shatree, a Persian silver coin, the half of the mamoodi. Shilling, English silver coin, weighs 87-27 grains, and contains 80-727 grains of pure silver. Shoe of gold, an ingot used as money in China. The name is English. Kelly, speaking of China (vol. i., p. 67), says, " Gold is not considered as money, but as merchandise. It is sold in regular ingots of a determined weight, which the English call shoes of gold. The largest of these weigh 10 tales each, and the gold is reckoned 94 touch, though it may be only 92 or 93." Sixpence, English silver coin, half a shilling. Shilling. See Schilling. Slant, a copper coin of Sweden, single and double, of 1 and 2 ore silver, or 3 and 6 ore koppar. Soldo, a small copper coin of Italy. There are half-soldi and quattrini, the fifth part of a soldo. Sou or Sol, a money of account and copper coin in Franco and Switzerland, of the value of 12 deniers. Souverain or Severin, a gold coin, chiefly coined in tho Netherlands when subject to Austria. Its value was 13s. lOd. Sovereign, English gold coin, weighs 123-274 grains, and contains 113,001 grains of pure gold. Stamhouly, a Constantinopolitau coin, current at Bassora for 20J^ mamoodies. Stiver, a money of account and copper coin in Holland and the Netherlands, containing 2 groots Flemisli, or 8 duyts, or doits. Stooter, a small Butch silver coin at 2^ stivers. Sware or ScJiware, a money of account and copper coin of Bremen. The smallest piece there current. Syfert, a copper coin of Embden at 5 wittens; 108 go to the rix-dollar. Talaro, a silver coin of Tuscany, Ragusa, and Venice. At Ragusa it is or was the highest silver coin, worth 3s. If d. sterling. It had also the names of vislino and Ragusina. Tale. See Cash. Taro, a money of account and copper coin of Naples, Sicily, and Malta, of the value of 4d.; 12 go to the scudo or Sicilian dollar. There are pieces of 4 and 2 tari. Testone or Testoon, a silver coin in Italy, and also in Portugal. In Italy the testone of Bologna is rated at 30 soldi; at Parma the testone is of 6 lire 6 soldi; at Rome of 6 paoli. Kelly gives the sterling value at a little more than Is. 3d. The assay value of the Portugal testoon he gives at something more than 6d. See Vintem. Thaler, the ordinary name in Germany for the rix-dollar. Veinten de Oro. See Coronilla. Vintem. At Lisbon there are silver Portu- guese coins current of 6 vintems, or 120 roes. At Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil, there are vintems of copper also current for 20 rees, with half and quarter vintems, and two-viutem pieces. Xeraphin. See Pardo. Zlot, a Polish coin worth nominally 15 kopeks, but passing current for 60 kopeks. It is worth 9d. English. Zolotta or Izelotta, a Turkish silver coin of 30 paras. COINDET'S PILLS are very effective in cases of scrofulous tumours and ulcers. Mix 1 grain of prot-iodide of mercury with 20 grains of extract of liquorice. Divide the mass into 8 pills. Take 2 pills three or four times daily. COINS, IMPRESSIONS FROM. Avery easy and elegant way of taking the impressions of medals and coins, not generally known, is as follows:—Melt a little isinglass glue with brandy, and pour it thinly over the medal, so as to cover its whole surface ; let it remain on for a day or two till it has thoroughly dried and hardened, and then take it off, when it will be fine, clear, and as hard as a piece of Muscovy glass, and will have a very elegant impression of the coin. It will also resist the effects of damp air, which occasions all other kinds of glue to soften and bend if not prepared in this way.— {Shaw.) If the wrong side of the isinglass be breathed on, and gold leaf applied, it will adhere, and be seen on the other side producing a very pleasing effect. Isinglass glue made with water alone will do nearly as well as if brandy be used. Medals may also be copied by surrounding them with a hoop of paper, and pouring on them plaster of Paris (mixed with water to the con- sistence of cream) to the depth of about half an[ 340 ] COL COK inch. Melted vrax, stearine, fusible metal, or ail}' similar material, may be used in the same way. COKE is only part of the carbon, or charcoal, of comraou coal and its earthy constituents, the bituminous and gaseous constituents of the coal being driven off either in the coke oven or gas retort. The heating power of coke is greater than that of coal in the proportion of 75° to 69°; but to burn coke in a common fireplace requires careful management. The fire siiould be lighted and well burnt up with coal before any coke is put on ; then put on a good quantity, throwing it quite at the back of the fire, no piece being larger or smaller than a hen's egg. Leave it untouched, for poking checks its burning. It is better calculated for close stoves than for open fireplaces. COLCANNON. This dish is made by boil- ing potatoes and spinach or any other greens separately. Mash the potatoes, squeeze the greens dry, chop them finely, and, having mixed them with some butter and salt, put the whole into a buttered mould, and then in a hot oven for ten minutes. COLCHICUM, or Meadow Saffron. This member of the crocus family is called by bota- nists Colchicum autumnale. The expressed juice is used in Alsace to destroy vermin in the hair. In modern times it was first recommended as a diuretic by Baron Stoerck; but the trials made of it at that time seemed to prove that it ■was a very inert substance, probably from im- proper pharmacy. The success of the French nostrum, called eau medicinale allu&son, iu relieving the pain in paroxysms of gout led to an attempt to discover its composition ; and it is worthy of remark that, before the principle upon which their activity depends was known, the white hellebore and meadow saffron should have each respectively been suspected to be the active ingredient by Mr. Moore and Mr. Want. The discovery of veratria in both is a strong presumption that the virtue of the eau d'Husson really depends upon that alkaloid, from what- ever plant it be prepared. Be this as it may, since that time various preparations of colchi- cum have been very generally used, chiefly in gouty and rheumatic attacks, as a substitute for the eau medicinale. A saturated vinum colchici, prepared by ma- cerating Q ozs. of the fresh root cut in slices in 2-t ozs. of white wine in a gentle heat for six days, the spirit being previously carried off by h(3at, and filtering the solution, is now frequently used as a substitute for it in gout (chiefly on the recommendation of Sir E. Home), rheuma- tism, and dropsy; and there is no doubt that it produces similar, and sometimes even fatal efiects. It acts irregularly, sometimes relieving the pain without any other obvious efFect ; but it often combines an anodyne effect with a drastic operation as an emetic, purgative, or diuretic. Dr. Scudamore has ably treated of these pre- tended specifics in gout, and condemns them as ultimately injurious. Mr. Haden gives the powdered colchicum bulb in all inflammatory affections in doses of from 2 to 8 grains, with a scruple or more of sulphate of potass, every four or six hours, increasing the dose until either vomiting or purging is produced on the second or third day, when the medicine is either laid aside or given in diminished doses. The seeds have lately been also recommended by Dr. Williams in the form of a vinous infusion, as being less uncertain than the wine of the recent root. COLD. See Catarrh. COLD, ARTIFICIAL. See Freezing Mixtures. COLD CREAM. The following is excellent:— Place 2 ozs. of oil of almonds, 1 drachm of white wax, and 1 drachm of spermaceti in a basin by the fire. Mix together 1 oz. of rose water and I oz. of orange-flower water. Add a few drops of this mixture to the oil, wax, and spermaceti, stirring it all the time with a porcelain or glass pestle, and continue thus to add and incorporate a few drops at a time until, when cold, it is like very thick cream. COLIC. This disease, of which there are several varieties, is characterised by a painful distention of the whole of the lower part of the b?lly, with a particular twisting round the navel, frequently attended with vomiting, costiveness, and spasmodic conti'actions of the abdominal muscles. It arises from various causes, such as raw and sour food, wind, a superfluity of acrid bile, long-continued costiveness, hardened faeces, metallic poisons, derangement of the intestines, gout or rheumatism shifting, hysterics, worms, the application of cold, &c. ; and, according to the causes giving rise to it, it has been de- nominated the bilious, flatulent, or hysteric colic, all of which are accompartied with spasm of some part of the intestines. The first, or bilious colic, is marked by loss of appetite, a bitter taste in the mouth, thirst, feverish heat, costiveness. and vomiting of bilious matter, accompanied with sharp pain about the navel; the former, as the disease advances, becoming more frequent; the latter more severe and last- ing. To allay the frequent vomiting in this type of the disease, with great irritability of the stomach, a saline draught such as the following may be taken every two or three hours, e.g.:— Take subcarbonate of potass, 1 scruple; cinna- mon water, 2 drachms ; distilled water, i oz.; tincture of opium, 25 drops; to which add aCOL [ 341 J COL table-spoonful of fresh lemon juice, and take it while in a state of effervescence. But, if there be only sickness at the stomach without vomit- ing, the patient may drinlc plentifully of camo- mile tea, applying externally to the seat of pain flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water, interposing occasionally frictions with some anodyne liniment, as opodeldoc, &c. When the nausea and vomiting have ceased the patient should take an active purgative to carry off the offending matter, viz.:—Take jalap in powder, i drachm; calomel, 5 grains; and treacle enough to make a bolus or two, to be taken for a dose, assisting the operation by thin gruel or broth. In many cases the stomach is so irritable that it will not retain the medicine. When this occurs the contents of th& intestines must be evacuated by means of mild laxative clysters at first, increasing them afterwards in strength should it be found necessary, viz.:—Take bruised aniseed and camomile flowers, of each 1 oz.; pure water, H pint. Boil them over a slow fire until the water is reduced to 11 ozs.; then strain the liquor, and add Glauber's salts, 6 drachms; castor oil, 1 oz.; or, thin gruel, IS ozs.; Glauber's salts, loz.; olive oil, 1| oz. Mix them for a clyster. To be repeated until a due effect is produced. The second, ov flatulent colic, is marked by a costiveness, pain, soreness, and griphig of the bowels, a rumbling noise, distention of the stomach, desire to vomit, and coldness of the feet and hands. In this species of colic take peppermint water, 4 ozs.; spirit of caraway, 2 ozs.; compound tincture of lavender, i oz. ; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Make a mixture, and give the patient 2 table-spoonsful every hour; and, if this does not soon afford relief, the above clyster, containing bruised aniseed, may be given every three or four hours, and warm fomentations applied, with flainiels wrung out of them, over the whole belly. Should the clysters not act sufficiently, 1 oz. of the compound tincture of senna, with 2 drachms of the tincture of jalap, may be taken by the mouth. Notwithstanding these means, should the disease increase in violence so as to threaten inflamma- tion of the bowels, the patient should be blooded, put into a warm bath, fomented, and a large blister applied over the seat of the pain. Inflammation of the bowels may be known from colic by the absence or trifling degree of fever in the latter, and by the pain diminishing by pi'essing on the belly. Third, or hijsteric colic, is characterised by nausea and sickness at the stomach, attended with severe spasms, costiveness, and lowness of spirits. In this it is seldom necessary to use evacuants, unless obstinate costiveness prevail. when it will be proper to give some gentle aperient medicine; for example, take rhubarb in powder, 15 grains; spirit of aniseed, 4 drachms; cinnamon water, 1 oz.; tincture of jalap, 3 drachms. To be made into a draught and taken immediately, administering at the same time, every four or six hours, the following clyster:—Take oil of turpentine, 8 drachms ; enough of the yolk of an egg. Mix them to- gether, and add gradually about f pint of thin gruel. Should there be any nausea or vomiting the patient's stomach may be cleansed out with a tea-cupful or two of camomile tea, giving afterwards some antispasmodic mixture, viz.:—• Take water, 4 ozs. ; spirit of sulphuric ether,^ 1 drachm ; fetid spirit of ammonia, \ drachm ; tincture of opium, 60 drops; tincture of castor, I oz.; of which 2 table-spoonsful may be given every three or four hours. When colic rises to a violent height the mo- tion of the intestines is entirely inverted from below upwards—a most dangerous distinction: it obtains the name of iliac -passion. Its most peculiar symptom is vomiting of faecal matter by the mouth, attended with obstinate costiveness and a high degree of infl.ammation, consequently demanding the most prompt interference of medical advice. See Bowels (Pain in), Diae- EHCEA, and Worms. COLLAR BONE. If this be broken let the arm on the same side be supported by a sling, or by resting on the table, and be kept as close to the side and as unmoved as possible until surgical aid can be obtained. COLLARED BEEF. Take a piece of thin flank of beef, and bone it; cut off the skin, and salt it with 2 ozs. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of sal prunella, 2 ozs. of bay salt, ^ lb. of coarse sugar, and 2 lbs. of common salt. Beat the hard salt very finely, and mix all together ; turn it every day, and rub it well with the brine for eight days; then take it out, wash it, and wipe it dry. Take \ oz. of cloves, \ oz. of mace, 12 corns of allspice, and a nutmeg beaten very finely, with a spoonful of beaten pepper, a large quantity of chopped parsley, and some sweet herbs shred finely. Sprinkle this mixture on the beef, and roll it up very tightly; put a coarse cloth round it, and tie it very tightly with beggar's tape. Boil it in a copper of water, and if it is a large collar it will take six hours boiling; but a small one will be done in five. When it is done take it out, and put it into a press; but if you have not that convenience put it between two boards, with a weight on the uppermost, and let it remain in that state till it is thoroughly cold; then take it out of the cloth, cut it into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and serve them to table. Garnish your diah with raw parsley. COLLARED BREAST OF MUTTON.COL C 342 ] COL Pare off the skin of a breast of mutton, and with a sharp knife nicely take out half the bones, but be careful you do not cut through the meat. Pick all the fat and meat off the bones; then grate some nutmeg all over the inside of the mutton, a very little beaten mace, a little pepper and salt, a few sweet herbs shred small, a few crumbs of bread, and the bits of fat picked off the bones ; roll it up tightly; stick a skewer in to hold it together, but do it in such a manner that the collar may stand upright in the dish; tie a packthread across it to hold it together; spit it; then roll the caul of a breast of veal all round it, and roast it. When it has been about half an hour at the fire take off the caul, dredge it with flour, baste it well with fresh butter, and let it be of a fine brown. It will require, on the whole, an hour and a quarter roasting. For sauce take some gravy beef, and cut and hack it well; then flour it, and fry it a little brown. Pour into your stewpan some boiling water, stir it well together, and then fill your pan half full of water ; put in an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little crust of bread toasted, two or three blades of mace, four cloves, some whole pepper, and the bones of the mutton ; cover it closely, and let it stew till it is quite rich and thick; then strain it. Boil it up with some trufBes and morels, a few mushrooms, a spoonful of catsup, and if you have them two or three bottoms of artichokes; put just enough salt to season the gravy ; take the packthread off the mutton, and set it upright in the dish ; cut the sweetbread into four pieces, boil it of a fine brown, and have ready a few forcemeat balls fried. Lay these round the dish, and pour in the sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon. COLLARED BREAST OF VEAL. Bone your veal and beat it a little; rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and strew on it a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a large handful of pai'sley chopped small, with a few spiigs of sweet marjoram, a little lemon- peel shred finely, and an anchovy chopped small and mixed with a few crumbs of bread. Roll it up very tightly, bind it hard with a fillet, and wrap it in a clean cloth. Boil it two hours and a half in soft water, and when it is done enough hang it up by one end, and make a pickle for it, consisting of a pint of salt and water, and half a ph)t of vinegar. Before you send it to table cut off a slice at each of the ends. Garnish with pickles and parsley. COLLARED CALF'S HEAD. Take a calf's head with the skin on, scald off the hair, take out all the bones carefully from the neck, and lay it some time in warm milk to make it look white. Boil the tongue, peel it, cut that and the palate into thin slices, and put them and the eyes into the middle of the head. Take some pepper, salt, cloves, and mace, and beat them finely; then add to them some grated nutmeg, scalded parsley, thyme, savory, and sweet marjoram cut very small. Beat up the yolks of three or four eggs, spread them over the head, and then strew over the seasoning. Roll it up very tightly, tie it round with tape, and boil it gently for three hours in as much water as will cover it. When you take it out season the pickle with salt, pepper, and spice, and add to it a pint of white wine vinegar. When it is cold put in the collar, and cut it in handsome slices when you send it to table. COLLARED EELS. Wlien you have thoroughly cleaned your eel cut off the head, tail, and fins, and take out the bones. Lay it flat on the back, and then grate over it a small nut- meg, with two or three blades of mace beaten finely, and a little pepper and salt; then strew on these a handful of parsley shred finely, with a few sage leaves chopped small. Roll it up tightly in a cloth, and bind it firmly. If it is of a middling size boil it in salt and water three quartei's of an hour, and hang it up all night to drain. Add to the pickle a pint of vinegar, a few peppercorns, and a sprig of sweet mar- joram. Boil it ten minutes, and let it stand till the next day; then take off the cloth, and put your eels into the pickle. When you send them to table lay them either whole in the plate or cut them in slices. Garnish with green parsley. Lampreys may be done in the same manner. COLLARED MACKEREL. Gut your mackerels, and slit them down the belly ; cut off their heads, take out the bones, and be careful not to cut them in holes; then lay them flat on their backs, season them with mace, nut- meg, pepper, salt, and a handful of parsley shred finely ; strew it over them, roll them tightly, and tie them well separately in cloths; boil them gently twenty minutes in the vinegar, salt, and water; then take them out, put them into a pot, and pour the liquor on them, or the cloth will stick to the fish; take the cloth off the fish the next day, put a little more vinegar to the pickle, and keep them for use. When you send them to table garnish with fennel and parsley, and put some of the liquor under them. COLLARED PIG. Bone your pig, and then rub it all over with pepper and salt beaten finely, a few sage leaves, and sweet herbs chopped small; roll it up tightly, and bind it with a fillet. Fill your boiler with soft water; put in a bunch of sweet herbs, a few peppercorns, a blade or two of mace, eight or ten cloves, a hand- ful of salt, and a pint of vinegar. When it boils put in your pig, and let it boil till it is tender; then take it up, and when it is almost coldi COL COL [ 343 ] bind it over again; put it Into au earthen pot, and pour tlie liquor your pig was boiled in upon it. Be careful to cover it closely after you cut any down for use. COLLARED SALMON. Take a side of salmon, and cut off the tail; then wash the fleshy part well, and dry it with a cloth; rub it over with the yolks of eggs, and make some forcemeat with what you cut off at the tail end; take off the skin, and put to it some parboiled oysters, a tail or two of lobsters, the yolks of three or four eggs boiled hard, six anchovies, a handful of sweet herbs chopped small, a little salt, cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and grated bread. Work all these well together with yolks of eggs, lay it over the fleshy part, and strew on it a little pepper and salt; then roll it up into a collar, and bind it with broad tape ; boil it in water, salt, and vinegar, but let the liquor boil before you put it in, and throw in a bunch of sweet herbs and some sliced ginger and nutmeg. Let it boil gently nearly two hours, and then take it up; put it into a pan, and when the pickle is cold put it to your salmon, and let it lay in it till wanted. If you cover it with clarified butter it will keep a considerable time. COLLARED VENISON. Bone a side of venison, take away all the sinews, and cut it into square collars of what size you please. It will make two or three collars. Lard it with fat bacon, and cut your lard as big as the top of your finger, and three or four inches long ; season your venison with pepper, salt, cloves, and nutmeg; roll up your collars, and tie tbem closely with coarse tape ; then put them into deep pots, with seasoning at the bottom, some fresh butter, and three or four bay leaves; put the rest of the seasoning and butter on the top, and over that some beef suet finely shred and beaten ; then cover up your pots with coarse paste, and bake them four or five hours. After that take them out of the oven, and let them stand a little ; take out your venison, and let it drain well from the gravy; add more butter to the fat, and set it over a gentle fire to clarify; then take it off, let it stand a little, and skim it well. Make your pots clean, or have pots ready fit for each collar; put a little seasoning and some of your clarified butter at the bottom ; then put in your venison, fill up your pot with clarified butter, and be sure that your butter is au inch above the meat. When it is thoroughly cold tie it down with double paper, and lay a tile on the top. They will keep good six or eight months, and you may, when you use a pot, put it for a minute into boiling water, and it will come out whole. Let it stand till it is cold, stick it round with bay leaves and a sprig at the top, and serve it up. COLLARING. One very material thing to be generally and indispensably observed in the business of collaring any kind of meat is that you roll it up well, and bind it as tightly as possible, otherwise when it is cut it will break into pieces, and its beauty be entirely lost. Be careful that you boil it enough, but not too much, and let it be quite cold before you put it into the pickle. After it has lain all night in the pickle take oS the binding, put it into a dish, and when it is cut the skiu will look clear, and the meat have its proper solidity. COLLEGE PUDDING. See Pudding. COLLOPS. Cut some veal cutlets, and fry them a good brown, but not too much ; take some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour, and boil it a few minutes; add Cayenne, cat- sup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms pickled, and grated lemon-peel; simmer this up, and just heat the collops through; add what gravy came from them, but do not let them boil, or they will be hard; put in forcemeat balls and hard yolks of eggs ; lay round them little slices of bacon notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. COLLOPS, BEEF. Take some rump steak, or any tender piece of beef, and cut like Scotch collops, only larger. Hack them a little with a knife, and flour them; put a little butter in a stewpan, and melt it; then put in your collops, and fry them thickly for about two minutes ; put in a pint of gravy, with a little butter rolled in flour; season with pepper and salt; cut four pickled cucumbers in thin slices, half a walnut, a few capers, and a little onions shred very finely; stew them five minutes ; then put them into a hot dish, and send them to table. You may put half a glass of white wine into it. COLLOPS OF COLD BEEF. If you have any cold inside of a sirloin of beef take off all the fat, and cut it very thin in little bits ; cut an onion very small; boil as much water or gravy as you think will do for sauce; season it with a little pepper and salt and a bundle of sweet herbs. Let the water boil, shake it round, and stir it. When the sauce is thick and the meat done take out the sweet herbs, and pour it into your dish. It does better than fresh meat. COLLOPS A LA BECHAMEL. Soak a slice of ham, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shallots, and half an bay leaf; simmer these on a slow fire about a quarter of an hour; then add a spoonful of good cullis, as much cream, and a little flour and pepper; reduce the liquor till quite thick, and strain it in a sieve. Cut the breasts of roasted poultry into small bits; put the meat into the sauce, with the yolk of one egg, and give tliem a few boilings together; cut also thin bits of paste to what form you please ; put this ragout between two pieces, pinch all round to secure the sauce, and fry them of a fine brown colour.C 344 ] COL COM COLLOPS AND EGGS. Cut either bacon, pickled beef, or bung mutton into thin slices ; iDroil them nicely; lay them in a dish before the fire ; have ready a stewpan of boiling water; break as many eggs as you have collops one by one in a cup, and pour them into a stewpan. When the whites of the eggs begin to harden, and all look of a clear white, take them up one by one in an egg slice, and lay them on the collops. COLLOPS OF PRESERVES. Roll out some puff paste very thin, wet it, and lay on it at intervals whatever preserves you think proper; roll your paste over, press the ends together, and lay them on a tin. Just before they are wanted fry them lightly; drain and sprinkle them with sugar ; glaze and serve them. COLLOPS (A LA Russe). Break 4 eggs into a stewpan, and mix with them 2 spoonsful of flour; then half a glass of good cream, 1 spoonful of warm butter, and a grain of salt. When these are well mixed together put some of it into a large frying-pan, and fry it of a light colour on both sides ; then take it out, and fry more in the same way, like pancakes, until you have half a dozen very thin; cut each in half, and trim them into oblong pieces of the same size; lay on each some quene]le, minced fowl, or game, as if for croquettes ; wrap the fried batter round it, wetting the edges, that they may adhere properly, with a little of the batter, having reserved some for the purpose; then have ready beaten six eggs and a little salt; mash them with bread crumbs, fry them of a good colour, and serve them quickly. COLLOPS, SCOTCH. Cut veal cutlets taken from the fillet into small thin pieces, and fry them in a little boiling lard till of a light brown colour; drain them dry, and put them into a stewpan ; add cullis, stewed mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, pieces of arti- choke bottoms, some slices of throat sweet- breads, and egg balls. Let them simmer over a slow fire till tender ; season to the palate, and serve with rashers of broiled bacon round them. COLLYRIUM, or Eye Wateb, is an applica- tion for allaying inflammation of the eye. Water applied frequently as hot as it can be borne, by means of a rag dipped into it, is one of the best of such applications. The following may be applied after the inflammation has subsided :— Dissolve of super-acetate of lead and sulphate of zinc each 8 grains in 4 fluid ounces of rose water. Apply frequently to the ej-^es. COLOCYNTH in medicine is the pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber {Cucurnis col.o- cynthis). It requires great care in using, being a very powerful drastic cathartic, and was em- ployed by the ancients in dropsical and lethargic diseases. Many attempts have been made to mitigate its violence, which is best effected by triturating it with gummy farinaceous substances or the oily seeds. The watery decoction or in- fusion is much less severe, and has been recom- mended in worm cases, but it is rarely employed except in combination with other purgatives. Thunberg informs us that this article is ren- dered so perfectly mild at the Cape of Good Hope by being pickled, that it is absolutely used as food both by the natives and colonists. Mixed with paste or other cements it is used to keep away insects, which it does by its extreme bitterness. Dose, four to ten grains. COLOGNE WATER, or Eau de Cologne, may be made by combining the following in- gredients :—Oil of bergamot, 1 drachm; oil of lemon, 1 drachm ; oil of lavender, 20 drops; oil of neroli, 20 drops; oil of rosemary, 10 drops ; essence of ambergris and musk, 5 drops; and rectified spirit of wine, 1 pint. Mix and strain through blotting paper. COLOURING. In cookery, for a beautiful red boil 15 gi-ains of cochineal in the finest powder, with li drachms of cream of tartar, in i pint of water very slowly half an hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the size of a pea, or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of water, or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach leaves or beet leaves, express the juice, and boil a tea-cupful in a saucepan of water, to take off the rawness. COLTSFOOT, ESSENCE OF. Mix 1 drachm of balsam of tolu and 1 drachm of com- pound tincture of benzoin with 2 drachms of rectified spirit of wine. This is sold as a remedy for a cough, but is more likely to be injurious than beneficial. COLTSFOOT, SYRUP OF. Take of colts foot 6 ozs.; maidenhair, 2 ozs.; hyssop, 1 oz.; liquorice root, 1 oz.; boil them in 2 quarts ol spring water till a fourth is consumed; then strain it, and put to the liquor 2 lbs. of fine powder sugar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, and boil it till it is nearly as thick as honey. COLTSFOOT WINE. To 1 gallon ol flowers put 4 gallons of boiling water; let it stand till cold; then strain it through a sieve, and put 3 lbs. of loaf sugar to every gallon. Boil it till the scum has done rising ; then put it into a tub, and when nearly cold put in the peelings of a lemon and a Seville orange to each gallon, with a little yeast. Let it stand three or four days to work ; then put it into a cask with the oranges and lemons. Stop it closely, and let it stand three mouths; then bottle it off, and put a lump of sugar into each bottle. COMB. We will only observe upon thisCOM CON [ 345 ] j)art of our toilet furniture that the most durable combs for parting the hair, the least liable to injury, and the readiest to clean are made of a white metallic compound resembling silver, and that the next to be preferred are combs made of gutta percha. COMPOTE is a method of preparing fruits, which will be treated of under the name of CONDUCTORS OF LIGHTNING. The best are made of copper wire twisted into a rope. One half an inch in diameter is quite large enough, and we recommend one at each end of a house. CONGER EEL (Boiled). The boiled con- ger taken from the soup may be eaten with plain melted butter and fish sauce, or with oil and vinegar, or with parsley and butter, or it may be sent to table covered with white sauce. It is also very nice fried in a light batter. In a word, this fish will be found very useful and economical in large families, being nutritive, palatable, and e.xtremely wholesome. CONGER EEL (Broiled). The conger eel cut into streaks and broiled is a dish of no ordinai-y attractions. It may be served with the common sauce piquante, or with tomato sauce. CONGER EEL SOUP. Put 5 lbs. of con- ger eel into a pipkin (which must be used for no other purpose), together with a slice of lean ham, an anchovy, J lb. of bullock's liver, and a sheep's melt; add water as you would for making beef soup. When the pot has been well skimmed put in 1 turnip, 2 carrots, half a parsnip, an onion with 3 cloves stuck in it, 1 clove of garlic, and a good bunch of leeks ; season with salt and some whole pepper. Let the soup simmer during six hours. It may be sent to table either with bread, or with small round Italian paste, or with semolina. This soup is excellent for consumptive persons. CONSERVES, FRIED. For all sorts of conserves the sugar should be prepared to the ninth degree, according to the quantity wanted. They are all made much after the same manner, the only diffei'ence being in the quantity of fruits proposed. Conserves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat marmalade sifted in a sieve, and soaked pretty dry over a slow fire. Use about ^ lb. of the sugar thus prepared to ^ lb. of sweetmeat marmalade ; take the sugar off the fire to work them well together; warm the whole for a mo- ment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose. When it is cool it may be cut into cakes of what size you please. CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and raspberries, of each ^ lb., and 3 lbs. of sugar. Bruise your fruit, and, having strained off the juice, put it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring it till re- duced to half. Dissolve the sugar, skim, and boil it to casse; take it from the fire while you put in the juice, then put it on again, and give it one boil; take it off, and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, when the conserve may be put into moulds. CONSOMMEE. This is broth, jelly, or jelly stock. CONSOMMFE : To Make. TakeSorlOlbs. of beef steaks, 8 old hens, 2 young ones, and 4 knuckles of veal. Put these into a large pot, and fill it with strong broth. Skim it well, cool- ing it three or four times to make the scum rise, after which let it boil gently. Put into the pot carrots, turnips, onions, and 3 cloves. When your meat is sufficiently done pass the liquor through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it may be very clear. No salt need be put in if strong broth is used. CONSOMMEE of game is made in the same manner as with poultry, substituting the backs, &c., of partridges or other game for the trimmings of fowls. CONSOMMFE of poultry. Lay a few slices of ham and veal at the bottom of a stewpan, and on them the trimmings of poultry; cover them with consommee, and let the stewpan stand over a slow fire till the meat is quite warmed through ; then add more consommee, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions, and let the whole continue to boil till done. Strain it through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. constipation. See Costiveness. constitution. Few persons, we believe, notwithstanding the assertion " that every man past forty is either a fool or a physician," know their constitution, and what it will bear either in the way of excess or abstinence. Now, though this seems to be a sweeping assertion, it is certainly too true ; and the lamentable situation to which many reduce themselves by their in- dulgence in every kind of excess is but too powerful an illustration of our position. How very few, for instance, though complaining violently of their bad and slow digestion, will debar tiicni- selves the gratification of partaking of a disli that pleases their palate, or refrain from a wine of the peculiar flavour of which they are fond. Exercise, too, that great promoter of health, even in the hands of the physician, without whose aid his prescriptions might frequently be throw-n behind the fire, is neglected by the sedentary, and those whose avocations lead them to adopt a sitting pos ture, and confine themselves to close rooms. The pure air, instead of being sought by them as the phj'sic best suited to their complaints, is sliuirned or totally neglected, and for no other reason than, that it occasions the waste, as they term it of time ; when, if the hours that are idly sponi byCON CON C S46 J finch were kept an account of, it would shame tnem to look at it. Drugs, draughts, and powders are the means they take to relieve themselves from their want of caution, and time but too truly proves they Jaiew not their con- stitution. We shall endeavour to give some rules for the guidance of those who may be in- clined to attend to our warning voice, and if we are not attended to in the heyday and spring of youth we are certain that our cautions will one day be obeyed. In relaxed habits exercise is not proper, viz., those whose bowels are apt to be loose and weak after it; at least, none that is of a violent description. We do not allude here to those whose bowels are surcharged with slime and gross humours. To them exercise is most bene- ficial, carrying out of the body all glutinous matter, which causes belching, twitching, faint- nesses, watchings, and a thousand other dis- agreeable symptoms. There are, however, some who have a natural defect in their organs of digestion, which, though it cainiot be amended by the art of medicine, can yet be alleviated by the patient himself taking care to suit his diet entirely to his stomach, if his stomach will not agree with what he chooses to put into it. Rice boiled without butter, calf, sheep, and cow-feet jellies, and such-like are proper, avoiding all kinds of hashes, flummery, butter, cream, and veal. Wine and water, whichever wine seems to suit the stomach best, will be proper for drink. Persons of a dry constitution should forbear hard laboiir,as well as flesh meats, and should for their drink confine themselves to wine and water. Labour forces off all thin humours, and makes the remaining gluish and clammy, and flesh becomes jelly at last. You have, therefore, nothing to do but dilute if indulgence in meat is essential to your comfort, and you will prefer the gratifica- tion of your appetite to health. We can only advise what is proper to be done, and, if that be not attended to, then do the best we can for those who transgress our rules, and will force nature out of her path. If you eat much you must work or exercise much, and if you use much exercise you will eat heartily. Exercise wastes us, while food repairs us. Eating without exer- cise is cramming, and more resembles a prepara- tion for the shambles than human indulgence in proper nourishment. CONSUMPTION. What is called regular tubercular phthisis, or consumption, usually sets in with a short dry cough, and that so slight as to become habitual before it excites the attention of the patient. The breathing is usually more easily hurried by bodily motion ; the patient becomes languid and indolent, and gradually loses strength ; the pulse is small, soft, and quicker than usual; at length, from some ex- citing cause, the cough becomes more trouble- some duriug the night, the breathing more anxious, a sense of tightness and oppression of the chest is experienced ; expectoration, at first of a frothy matter, takes place, and is most co- pious in the morning, becoming afterwards more considerable, viscid, and opaque. The breathing at length becomes more and more difficult; the emaciation and weakness go on increasing; a pain arises in some part of the chest, at first generally referred to the breast bone, but as the disease advances it is felt on one or both sides, which is increased by coughing, and sometimes becomes so acute as to prevent the patient from lying on the affected side. The face now begins to flush; the pulse becomes quick and hard ; the urine is high-coloured, and deposits a branny sediment; the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet are affected with burning heat; the tongue, from being white, is nowpreternaturally clear and red, and there is an expectoration of purulent matter; all the symptoms are increased towards the evening; the fever assumes the hectic form, having an increase of its pa- rox3'sms twice in the day, the first about noon, which is inconsiderable, and soon suffers a remission, the other in the evening, which gradually increases until after midnight. Hectic fever is known by increases at noon, but greater in the evening, with slight re- missions in the morning after nocturnal sweats, the urine depositing a reddish sediment; the appetite is generally good, and thirst moderate. Each exacerbation, or increase of the febrile symptoms, is usually preceded by chilliness, and terminates in profuse perspiration and the deposit of a furfuraceous sediment. This sediment is deposited in the urine of persons afflicted with fever of a reddish or whitish matter, which generally appears within an houi' or two after the urine is passed, and only falls in part to the bottom, the urine remaining turbid. The appetite now often mends, and generally becomes better than in the first stages of the complaint; the outer membrane of the eye assumes a pearly white colour; during the exacerbations a cir- cumscribed redness appears on each cheek, but at other times the face is pale, and the countenance is dejected; food is returned by vomiting; a diarrhoea comes on, and generally alternates with weakening sweats ; the emacia- tion is extreme; the countenance assumes a cadaverous appearance ; the cheeks are promi- nent; the eyes hollow and languid; the bail falls off; the nails are of a livid colour, and much incurvated ; the legs swell and become puffy; little white ulcers [aphtha) appear in the throat; still the appetite often remains entire, and the patient flatters himself with hopes ofCON [ 347 3 CON recovery, and is often vainly forming distant projects of interest and amusement, when death puts a period to his existence. The causes which predispose to this disease are very numerous, among which are an heredi- tary disposition, particularly shape of the body, obvious by a long neck, prominent shoulders, and narrow chest; a tendency to scrofulous com- plaints, indicated by a fine clear skin, fair hair, delicate rosy complexion, large veins, thick upper lip, a weak voice, and great sensibility; certain diseases, such as catarrh, inflammation of the lungs, spitting of blood, small pox, measles; par- ticular employment exposing artificers to dust, such as needle pointers, stone cutters, millers, &c.. or to the former of metals or minerals under a confined and unwholesome air; violent passions, exertions, affections of the mmd, as grief, disappointment, anxiety, or close applica- tion to study without using a proper degree of exercise; playing much on wind instruments; frequent and excessive debaucheries ; late watch- ing, and drinking freely of strong liquors ; great evacuations, as diabetes, excessive venery, im- moderate discharge of the menstrual flux, and continuing to suckle too long under a debilitated state of constitution ; the application of cold, either by too quick a change of apparel, keeping on wet clothes, lying in damp beds, exposing the body too suddenly to cool air when heated by exercise; and by everything, in fact, that gives a considerable check to perspiration, &c. As it is only in the early stage of consump- tion that remedies are likely to be employed with success, the greatest attention should be paid to the first appearance of the symptoms. If spitting of blood be among the first of these the remedies pointed out under that head will be proper, in order to prevent ulceration. When persons of consumptive habits, or born of parents who have the same disposition, are attacked with it at about the age of twenty or sooner, in the spring of the year, everything must be done to prevent the formation of tubercles, and their consequent inflammation and suppuration, as by this means the disease may be kept under for many years. In these cases the treatment consists in bleed- ing from the arm and from the chest, either by means of leeches or cupping, keeping the body open with gentle laxatives, and a spare regimen. When there is any febrile heat, with a cough or pain in the chest, medicines which promote perspiration may be given, such as small doses ii to i grain) of tartarised antimony, or two or three grains of the antimony powder three or four times a day, together with the saline mixture and nitre. The patient's dietshould consist of such things as are easily digested and nutritive, such as light puddings, milk, poached eggs, jellies, and animal broths ; the different kinds of shell fish, such as lobsters, oysters, crabs, prawns, crayfish, &c. Where symptoms are but trifling, and the patient finds any difficulty in abstaining from animal food, he may be allowed such as is of the lightest nature and easiest digestion. Fer- mented and spirituous liquors on no account should be used. Milk is a very valuable remedy in consumption. Asses' milk, to the amount of three or four pints daily, has been productive of considerable benefit, and buttermilk at the commencement of the disease has in many cases done much good. It should be taken sparingly at first, and gradually increased in quantity, to make it sit easily on the stomach. Women's milk has also been re- commended ; but, in consequence of the difficulty of procuring it in sufficient quantity, asses' milk, or that of cows, is obliged to be substituted. The patient, to assist in preventing inflamma- tion of the tubercles in the lungs, should sedu- lously avoid all irritation of the affected part, such as singing, playing on wind instruments, &c.; he should never go into crowded rooms; refrain from placing his body in such positions, either in writing, reading, &c., as may tend to straiten the capacity of the chest, carefully shun- ning all bodily exercises that require much exer- tion, and particularly to guard against exposure to cold. Flannel or calico should be worn next the skin, and worsted or cotton stockings, The cold and variable temperature of the winter in England is the great source of consumption in this country, and when the disease is once formed it contributes greatly to its fatal termination. A warm and uniform temperature in some measure prevents the formation of the disease, and when it has only taken place in a slight degree has a tendency to retard its progress. It is a fact sufliciently known that a warm climate is only beneficial in incipient consumption. In arresting pulmonary inflammation the fox- glove has been extolled by some writers, and in the early stage of the disease, when the powers of the system are not broken down, it will moderate the pulse and diminish the hectic fever. This powerful medicine, however, re- quires to be administered with much caution as well as discrimination. In the early stage of the disease an emetic of from 10 to 15 grains of the sulphate of copper every second or third day in 2 ozs. of water has been attended with good effect. Vomiting soon comes on after it is taken into the stomach, and its effects may be assisted by drinking a few tumblersful of lukewarm water. During the intervals the patient may take two table-spoonsful four times a day of the following mixture :—Dissolve of myrrh 1 drachni, in a mortar, with spirit of pimento, 6 drachms; dis-CON CON [ 348 ] tilled water, 6^ ozs.; then add subcarlionate of potass, I di-achm; sulphate of iron, 12 grains: syrup, 2 drachms. This mixture has bceji given with mucli good effect in incipient consumption, using the above emetic twice a M'eek. It is known by the name of GriffitJis myrrh mixture. A spoonful of the following, when the cough is troublesome in the first stage of the disease, may also be given, viz.:—-Take almond mixture, 8 ozs.; oxymel of squills, ^ oz.; camphorated tincture of opium (paregoric), 2^ drachms; and tincture of foxglove, 25 drops. Or, sper- maceti, 2 drachms, and the yolk of an egg enough for solution ; then add pennyroyal water, 6 ozs.; niti-ate of potass (nitre), 1 scruple ; tincture of foxglove, 50 drops; and syrup of tolu, ^oz. Mix the following for ordinary drink:—Decoc- tion of barley, 2 pints ; gum arable, 3 drachms; and syrup of lemon, 1^ oz. Iceland moss is a favourite remedy with the physicians of the continent. It is chiefly recom- mended in those instances where the cough is attended with purulent expectoration, and in cases preceded by, or accompanied with, spitting of blood. The Iceland moss is commonly given in the form of decoction, 1^ oz. of the moss being boiled in 1 quart of milk. Of this a tea-cupful is directed to be drunk frequently in the course of the day. If milk disagree with the stomach a simple decoction of the moss in water is to be used, taking care to boil it over a slow fire, and not longer than a quarter of an hour. Or, to make the jelly, take Iceland moss, 4 ozs.; water enough to strain, IJpint; and white sugar, 4 ozs. This is more agreeable to the palate than the former, although both are equally nutritive and tonic. Means similar to the foregoing should be resorted to during the first stage of consumption. In the second or latter stages the attention must be directed towards mitigating the most distress- ing symptoms, such as cough, diarrhoea, and sweats, supporting the general health by air, moderate exercise, and mild nutritive food. To palliate the cough the almond mixture, n,s already advised, will be of service; and, if the patient's rest be much disturbed by night, tlieu from ^ to 1 grain of opium may be taken at bedtime. When a looseness arises it is to be stopped by astdingents combined with opium, as recommended further on under the head DiAERHCEA. When spitting of blood is an ex- citing symptom adopt the treatment as advised under that head. Vegetable acids, such as oranges and other fruits yielding an acid but not an acrid juice, have been much recommended to counteract the effects of absorption, on which the hectic fever is said to depend. CONTAGION. For the removal of smells, whether arising from drains or putrefying sub- stances, as well as to remove the miasma from the air in rooms where patients suHcriag with contagious or nauseous diseases are confined, iio application is so effective as chloride of lime, or bleaching powder. It removes the foliil smell from the most putrid sources. The mode of employing this powder, the chlo- ruret of lime, is simply thus:—To one part of the chloruret add forty parts of water: mix them thoroughly, and pour off the clear liquid, with which sprinkle the entire surface of the body by means of a watering-pot, or in any other convenient manner, and repeat the sprinkling twice or oftener daily, according to the tern-- perature of the atmosphere or the degree of putrefaction. Should putrefaction be far advanced, or the period a corpse is intended to be kept consider- able, it is better to surround the body with a sheet moistened in the solution, and to renew the moistening of it frequently. By these means all puti-efactive odour in the apartment may be perfectly obviated. Before approaching a corpse in putrefaction a tub should be procured, in which may be put a quantity of water (say about 49 pints), into which may be put about lib. 11 ozs. avoirdu- pois weight of the chloruret of lime, and the mixture stirred. Dip a sheet in the water con- tained in the tub, and unfold it so as to be able to withdraw it with facility, and particularly so as to be enabled to extend it very quickly over the corpse. To effect this let two persons open the sheet and place it in the liquid, holding the ends upon the edges of the tub; let this be carried to the side of the body in putrefaction, and at the same instant let the wet sheet be drawn out of the tub and laid over the body. The putrid odour soon afterwards ceases. If blood, or any other fluid proceeding from the dead body, have flowed upon the ground, pour upon this liquid one or two glasses full of the oxymuriated water; stir with a broom, and the putrid smell will disappear. This operation,, however, ought not to be thus performed when at any time it is intended the liquids spilled are to become the subject of chemical investigation, in which case the greatest quantity possible should be carefully collected for the purpose. If the infection has spread in the neighbouring places, in passages, staircases, &c., the infected places are to be sprinkled with one or two glasses of liquid chloruret of lime, and the fetid odour will cease. Care must be taken to moisten fre- quently with the liquid contained in the tub the sheet which covers the corpse: the reproduction of the putrid odour will thus be prevented. As soon as the body has been removed the sheetCOO [ 349 ] COH wbich has served for the disinfection should be washed in large quantities of water, dried, and folded. CONTRACTTON occurs in all metals whilst they are cooling. Advantage has been taken of this property to restore the walls of a house to a perpendicular position. Bars of iron have been passed through the house from outside to out- side, and plates of iron screwed tightly on the ends of the bars up to the walls. The bai's were made to expand or lengthen by heating them; the plates were screwed up again close to the walls; and then, as the bars contracted or shortened in cooling, they drew the walls up- right. Advantage may be taken of contraction in closing the cleft in anything that is split. Let a piece of hot iron wire be coiled tightly round the article split. As the wire cools it will close the cleft still more strongly. CONTUSION. See Bruises. CONVULSIONS in adults will be considered under the title Epilepsy, and we shall confine our attention here to convulsions in children. Convulsions are generally produced either by a lodgment of some acrid matter in the intestines or wind pent up ; or they arise from teething, worms, the sudden striking in of a rash, or the accession of some constitutional disease; for example, the small pox, scarlet fever, &c. Any trifling matter will induce symptomatic con- vulsions in some children, while others will withstand a great deal. The younger and more irritable the infant is, the more liable will it be to these convulsions, especially from any consi- derable disturbances in the first passages. Where the intervals are short, although the fit itself be not long nor violent, the disease is to be considered as more dangerous than where the paroxysms are attended with long intervals. The principal treatment in convulsions con- sists in removing the cause that has given rise to them. If they are occasioned by improper food or indigestion a gentle emetic may be given, and for this purpose a weak solution of tartarised antimony (3 grains to 4 ozs. of water) may be em- ployed, in the quantity of a tea-spoonful every ten or fifteen minutes, until the desired effect is produced. When they are supposed to pro- ceed from acrid matter in the bowels a laxa- tive clyster, assisted by some gentle aperient given by the mouth, such as calomel, followed by a little senna tea, with a little tincture of jalap ; if from flatulency, carminatives, or the cordial waters possessing the power of expelling wind ; and if from teething, whenever the tooth can be discovered working through the gum scarifications may be made with the edge of a lancet immediately over it, and this operation should be repeated for several successive days, till either the tooth makes its way or the con- vulsions cease ; and where scarifications are not found to answer the purpose the tooth may be cut down upon and liberated in every part. Worms have been considered as a cause of convulsions. In these cases those remedies used in expelling worms may be had recourse to. Should convulsions have arisen from the sudden disappearance of a rash, or the drying up of a discharge behind the ears, the re-appearance of these ought to be promoted. In those convulsive attacks which frequently precede an eruption of the small pox nothing will be required but the free exposure of the child to cool air. Cold water thrown over the face, the body placed in a horizontal position, tends frequently to shorten an individual paroxysm. It is only in cases of the most urgent necessity that a small quantity of the syrup of poppies or a few drops of the tincture of opium should be hazarded. For the removal of what nurses call inward fits a few drops of antimonial wine, according to the age of the child, are recommended by Dr. Armstrong ; but all that appears to be necessary is to take up the child when it sleeps too long, and when the smile on the countenance returns often, with any of the other symptoms, to tap it softly on the back, rubbing its stomach and belly well before the fire. This gentle exercise will bring a little wind from the stomach (which is sup- posed to be the cause of the comjjlaiut), and the child will then go quietly to sleep again. Should these simple means not be sufficient a drop or two of the oil of aniseed or caraway on a bit of white sugar may be given to it. COOKERY. Under this head we shall con- fine our notes to a few suggestions which would not come appropriately under the separate con- sideration of Boiling, Roasting, &c. Many things may be re-dressed in a different form from that in which they were first served, and improve the appearance of the table without increasing the expense of it. Cold Fish. Soles, cod, whitings, smelts, &c., may be cut into bits, and put into escalop shells, with cold oyster, lobster, or shrimp sauce, and bread crumbled, put into a Dutch oven, and browned like scalloped oysters. The best way to ivarm cold meat is to sprinkle the joint over with a little salt, put it in a Dutch oven at some distance before a gentle fire, that it may warm gradually ; watch it care- fully, and keep turning it till it is quite hot and brown. It will take from twenty minutes to three quarters of an hour, according to its thick- ness. Serve it up with gravy. This is much better than hashing it, and by doing it nicely a cook will get great credit. Poultry and Fried Fish may be re-dressed this way. Take care of the liquor you have boiled poultry or meat in. In five minutes you canC 350 ] COO coo make it into excellent soup. No good housewife has any pretensions to rational economy who boils animal food without converting the broth into some sort of soup. When you dress a large dinner you may make good broth or portable soup at a very small cost by taking care of all the trimmings and parings of the meat, game, and jJoultry you are going to use. Wash them well, and put them into a stew- pan with as much cold water as will cover them; then set your stewpan on a hot fire. When it boils take off all the scum, and set it on again to simmer gently; put in two carrots, two turnips, a large onion, three blades of pounded mace, and a head of celery. Some mushroom parings will be a great addi- tion. Let it continue to simmer gently four or five hours, and strain it through a sieve into a clean basin. This will save a great deal of expense in buying gravy meat. It will be to little purpose to procure good provisions without you have proper utensils to prepare them in. The most expert artist cannot perform his work in a perfect manner without proper instruments. You cannot have neat work without nice tools, nor can you dress victuals well without an apparatus appropriate to the work required. In those houses where the cook enjoys the confidence of her employer so much as to be in- trusted with the care of the store-room, which is not very common, she will keep an exact account of everything as it comes in, and insist upon the weight and price being fixed to every article she purchases, and occasionally will (and it may not be amiss to jocosely drop a hint to those who supply them that she does) reweigh them for lier own satisfaction, as well as that of her em- ployer, and will not trust the key of this room to any one. She will also keep an account of everything she takes from it, and manage with as much consideration and frugality as if it was her own property she was using, endeavouring to disprove the adage that " plenty makes waste," and remembering that " wilful waste makes woeful want." Very few modern-built town houses have a pro- per place to preserve provisions in The best sub- stitute ic< a hanging safe, which you may contrive to suspend in an airy situation, and when you order meat, poultry, or fish tell the tradesman when yoii intend to dress it. He will then have it in his power to serve you with provisions that will do him credit, which the finest meat, &c., in the world will never do unless it has been kept a proper time to be ripe and tender. If you have a well-ventilated larder in a shady, dry situation you may make still surer by order- ing in your meat and poultry such a time before you want it as will render it tender, which the finest meat cannot be unless hung a proper time, according to the season and nature of the meat. Permitting this process to proceed to a certain degree renders meat much more easy of solution in the stomach, and for those whose digestive faculties are delicate it is of the utmost im- portance that it be attended to with the greatest nicety, for the most consummate skill in the culinary preparation of it will not compensate the want of attention to this. Meat that is thoroughly roasted or boiled eats much shorter and tenderer, and is in proportion more digestible than that which is under-done. It is a good plan to have a bill of fare for the week on the Saturday before ; for example, for a family of half a dozen :— Sunday Roast beef and pudding. Monday .... Fowl, and do. boiled. Tuesday .... Calf's bead and apple pie. Wednesday .. Leg of mutton. Thursday .... Do. broiled or hasbed, and pancakes. Friday Fisb and pudding. Saturday .... Fisb, or eggs and bacon. It is an excellent plan to have certain things on certain days. When your butcher or poulterer knows what you will want he has a better chance of doing his best for you, and never think of ordering beef for roasting except for Sunday. When the weather or season is very un- favourable for keeping meat, &c., give him the choice of sending that which is in the best order for dressing, that is, either ribs or sirloin of beef, or leg, loin, or neck of mutton, &c. Meat in which you can detect the slightest trace of putrescency has reached its highest degree of tenderness, and should be dressed without delajs but before this period, which in some kinds of meat is offensive, the due degree of inteneration may. be ascertained by its yield- ing readily to the pressure of the finger, and by its opposing little resistance to an attempt to bind the joint. Although we strongly recommend that animal food should be hung up in the open air till its fibres have lost some degree of their toughness, yet let us be clearly understood also to warn you that, if kept till it loses its natural sweetness, it is as detrimental to health as it is disagreeable to the smell and taste. In very cold weather bring your meat, poultry, &c., into the kitchen early in the morning. If you roast, boil, or stew it ever so gently and ever so long, if it be frozen it will continue tough and unchewable. Without veiy watchful attention to this the most skilful cook in the world will get no credit, be she ever so careful in the management of her spit or her stewpan. The time meat should hang to be tender depends on the heat and humidity of the air.coo t 351 ] COO If it is not kept long enough it is hard and tough ; if too long it loses its flavour. It should be hung where it will have a thorough air, and be dried with a clotli night and morning, to keep it from damp and mustiness. Before you dress it wash it well. If it is roasting beef pare off the outside. If you fear meat, &c., will not keep till the time it is wanted par-roast or parboil it. It will then keep a couple of days longer, when it may be dressed in the usual way, only it will be done in rather less time. The cook and the butcher as often lose their credit by meat being dressed too fresh as the fishmonger does by fish that has been kept too long. During the sultry summer months it is almost impossible to procure meat that is not either tough or tainted. The former is as im- proper as the latter for the unbraced stomachs of relaxed valetudinarians, for whom, at this season, poultry, stews, &c., and vegetable soups are the most suitable food, when the digestive organs are debilitated by the extreme heat; and profuse perspiration requires an increase of liquid to restore equilibrium in the constitu- tion. Endeavour to avoid over-dressing roasts and boils, &c.., and over-seasoning soups and sauces with salt, pepper, &c. It is a fault which cainiot be mended. If your roasts, &c., are a little under-done, with the assistance of the stewpan, the gridiron, or the Dutch oven you may soon rectify the mistalce made with the spit or the pot. If ovei'-done the best juices of the meat are evaporated. It will serve merely to distend the stomach, and if the sensation of hunger be removed it is at the price v)f an indigestion. The chief business of cookery is to render food easy of digestion, and to facihtate nutrition. This is most completely accomplished by plain cookery in perfection, that is, neither over nor under-done.—[Cook's Oracle.) COOKIES, CRISP. Five tea-cr,ps of flour, 2 of sugar, 1 of butter, 1 egg, 1 tea-spoonful of pearlash, and 4 table-spoonsful of milk; put 3 table-spoonsful of milk to the sugar and 1 to the pearlash; mix them, and make 18 or 20 cookies. They must not be baked too much. COOKIES, SOFT. Four cups of flour, 2 of sugar, 1^ of butter, 2 eggs, 1 tea-spoonful of pearlash dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of milk, a little nutmeg, and some caraway seeds if liked. COOKING, LOSS CAUSED BY. Whether the heat be directly or indirectly applied there must be a considerable loss in the cooking of animal substances in public institutions, where the allowance of meat is generally weighed out in its raw state, and includes bones, and is served out cooked, and sometimes without bone ; and it is a matter of importance to ascertain, as nearly as possible, their relative proportions. Witli regard to this circumstance much, no doubt, de- pends on the piece of meat to be cooked, the degree of cookery, and the attention bestowed upon it, &c. We have been informed by persons who salt rounds of beef to sell by retail after they are boiled that they are able to get 19 lbs. of cold boiled meat from 25 lbs. of raw; but the meat, it must be confessed, is always under-done. Messrs. Donkin and Gamble boiled in steam 50 lbs. of captain's salt meat. The meat when cold, without the bones, which amounted to 5 lbs. 6 ozs., weighed only 35 lbs. In another experiment 113 lbs. of prime mess beef gave 9 lbs. 10 ozs. of bones, and 47 lbs. 8 ozs. of meat; and in a third 213 lbs. of mess beef gave 13 lbs. 8 ozs. of bones, and 103 lbs. 10 ozs. of meat; or, taking in the aggregate, 372 lbs. of salt beef, including the bones, furnish when boiled 186 lbs. 6 ozs. without bone, being about 50 per cent.; or, disregarding the bone altogether, salt meat loses by boiling about 42'2 per cent. We are indebted to Professor Wallace, of the University of Edinburgh, for the detail of a very accurate and extensive experiment in a pablic establishment, the results of which were that in pieces of 10 lbs. weight each 100 lbs. of beef lost upon an average by boiling 26|- lbs.; by baking, 30 lbs.; legs of mutton by boiling lost 20 lbs. 5 ozs. out of 100 lbs.; and by roasting the shoulder, STl per cent.; the neck, 32 4; and the loin, 35'9. Hence, generally speaking, mutton by boiling loses about one fifth of its original Aveight, and beef about one-fourth. Again, mutton and beef lose by roasting about one-third of their original weight. In roasting the loss arises from the melting out of the fat and tlie evaporating of the water, but the nutritious matter remains condensed in the cooked solid ; but in boiling the loss is occasioned partly by the fat melted out, but chiefly from gelatine and osmazone dissolved in the water in which the meat is boiled. There is, therefore, a real loss of nourishment unless the broth be used, when tin's mode of cooking becomes the most profitable, as well as the most economical. ' Vegetable substances are most commonly boiled or baked ; or, if fried or roasted, there is always much water present, which prevents the greater action of the fire from penetrating below the surface. COOL TANKAPtD. A bottle of ale, a gill of white wine, a glass of brandy, as nmch syrup of orange flov-er or capillaire as will sweeten it, a sprig or two of balm or burnet, and a warm toast well rubbed with nutmeg. Nutmeg may also be grated over it. It ought to be made a[ 352 ] COP coo quarter of an hour before dinner or supper, that the ingredients may be incorporated. A good way is to mix all but the ale, and pour it on just as it is going to be served. COOPER'S (Sir Astley) RULES FOR HEALTH. The first rule Sir Astley observed with care in his own person was " temperance," without which it is impossible for the strongest constitution to escape disease. Now there is much meaning in this word temperance, for it refers not only to food and drink, but to exercise, clothing, and every sort of sensual indulgence. Sir Astley's second rule was " early rising,"on the principle that the night was given for the rest of the body, and the day for business and labour; but he who sits up till midnight and beyond it must sleep in the morning, even, as Harvey expresses it, after " the vigorous sun is up and going on his Maker's errand." Who- ever does so must have his nerves loosened and his strength enfeebled—there is no help for him. Sir Astley attended to this. The third rule practised by Sir Astley was "sponging his body with cold water immediately after getting out of bed." He informs us that he continued this practice since he was twenty- four years of age, and the effect was that he did not know what it was to get a cold, and though he went from a warm room or crowded assembly into the open air in the severest win- ter nights, and with merely silk stockings on his legs, his health never suffered by cough or catarrh. Sir Astley's fourth rule was, that whenever he felt indisposed, in consequence of the fatigues of his profession or otherwise, he took a dose of "a medicine which never failed to restore him." As our readers may be pleased to know this valuable medicine which the learned baronet prepared for his own use, we shall here give the receipt for Sir A. Cooper's restorative pills :— Take of cathartic extract 4 grains ; submuriate of mercury, 1 grain. Make into one pill, to be taken at bedtime, and if not effectual another pill may be taken on the following morning. This is a medicine of great value in all those slight indis- positions which, though troublesome enough and heavy on the spirits, do not quite oblige the pa- tient to leave his business and go to bed. We cannot too strongly recommend it, though we think it necessary to say that, like other good things. Sir Astley's pills may be abused, namely, by taking them too often. Nobody, for example, unless fairly invalided, could possibly require a pill a day. Recollect the rule of " temperance " even in your medicines. Thousands are every day sent to their graves by their intemperance in the use of drugs, taken either by their own advice or by that of the apothecary, whose aim it is to glut the stomachs and suck the purses of his patients by his poisonous draughts. COPAL, improperly called gum copal, is a resinous substance obtained from the concrete juice of the PJius copalUnum, or narrow-leaved sumach, a native plant of North America, known there by the name of beach sumach. This resin is imported in irregular masses, some of which are transparent, of a yellowish or brown colour; others are whitish and semi-trausparent. It possesses a more agreeable odour than frankin- cense, but is, unlike other gums and resins, neither soluble in water nor in spirit of wine. Copal itself is soluble in the essential oils, particularly in that of lavender, but not easily in those obtained by expression. It may, how- ever, be dissolved in linseed oil, by digestion, with a heat very little less than is sufficient to boil it. The method of dissolving copal in spirit of wine is as follows:—To ^ oz. of camphor add 1 pint of alcohol; put it in a spherical glass, with 4 ozs. of copal in small pieces ; set it in a sand heat so regulated that the bubbles may be counted as they rise from the bottom, and con- tinue the same heat till the solution is com- pleted. Camphor acts more powerfully upon copal than any other substance. If the latter be finely powdered, and a small quantity of diy camphor rubbed with it in a mortar, the whole becomes in a few minutes a tough coherent mass. The process here described will dissolve more copal than the menstruum will retain when cold. Hence the most economical method will be to let the vessel which contains the solution stand for a few days, and when it is perfectly settled to pour off the clear varnish, and leave the resi- duum for a future process. Copal will dissolve in spirit of turpentine by the addition of camphor with equal facility, though not in the same quantity, as in spirit of wine. The vehicle employed in dissolving this resin dries very quickly, and is, therefore, in some cases really attended with disadvantage ; but this objection may be removed by the following pro- cess :—Take 1 pint of nut or poppy oil, and put it into a large earthen vessel; let it boil slowly over a moderate fire ; add by degrees 2 ozs. of white lead, and stir it continually till the whole is dissolved. Prepare 1 pint of the copal oil varnish heated in a separate vessel; pour this gradually into the hot oil, and stir them together till all the spirit of turpentine is dissipated; let it stand till cold, when it will be fit for use. It is obvious that, as this is a compound of the copal varnish with the least exceptionable of the drying oils, it will partake of the properties of each. Although it imparts less brightness and durability to colours than the varnish,COR [ 363 ] COP _/et it may be used by painters in the same maunei' as any other diying oil, on account of the greater lustre and permanency which such colours derive from it than are obtained from the common oil varnishes. Notwithstanding we have mentioned specific quantities of the in- gredients, it must be obvious that the relative proportions may be varied accordingly as it is required to dry faster or slower. It should also be remarked that both the ingredients must be hot, because if either of them be cold the mixture will become turbid, and a part, nay, often the whole, of the copal be precipitated ; but this inconvenience may be avoided by mixing and boiling them together in the manner above directed; yet as after some time a spontaneous alteration takes place, which diminishes, and at length destroys, the drying quality of this mixture, it will be advisable to use it fresh, or at least not to employ it after it has been prepared longer than a month or six weeks. This varnish is also applied to snuff-boxes, tea-boards, and other articles. It preserves and gives lustre to paintings, and greatly restores the faded colours of old pictures by filling up the cracks, and rendering the surfaces capable of reflecting light more uniformly. COPPER VESSELS. Copper utensils, when not properly cleaned, contaminate acid substances boiled in them. Vinegar dissolves the oxide with ease, as does also ammonia. EUer has proved that wine dissolves copper, doubtless in conse- quence of the acetic acid contained in it, and the oxidation of the metal by the air; and we can explain in the same way the production of acetate in the cocks of the vessels from which wine, beer, or cider is drawn. Drouard was affected for three days with colic and dian-hcea, in consequence of eating a ragout which had been seasoned with wine drawn out of a cask, the cock of which contained acetate of copper, which this liquor had in part dissolved. Fat bodies, such as fixed and essential oils, &c., dissolve the oxide and carbonate of copper with readiness, and hence Proust very justly condemns the use of copper measures for oil. The investigations of M. Marcelin Duval and the earlier experiments of Orfila seemed to prove that sugar was the antidote for verdigris. It allayed the pain and other alarming symp- toms, and produced a great number of liquid stools. Subsequent researches have, however, diminished the value of this substance. It is useful in calming the irritation when the poison has been expelled by vomiting, but it exerts no chemical action on it; and animals in whom the oesophagus was tied died, notwithstanding large doses of syrup were administered. When albu- men was given under similar circumstances the animal survived several day$, experienced no remarkable change, and after death no lesion was found. It is hence the proper antidote, while sugar and its preparations may be used to aid its operation. Drs. Mylne Edwards and Dumas have also found in their expei'iments on animals that me- tallic iron is a good antidote. When 15, 20, and even 50 grains of sulphate of copper, acetate of copper, or verdigris were given to animals, and 1 oz. of iron filings administered either immediately before or immediately afterwards, the gullet being tied to prevent the discharge of the poison, death did not ensue for five, six, or even eight days, and consequently proceeded from the operation on the gullet; and in one ex- periment, on the ligature being removed from the gullet, the opening healed up, and complete recovery took place. The ferrocyanate of potash is also recom- mended by Dr. O'Shaughnessy as an antidote, from its powers of decomposition. The use of vinegar should in cases of poison- ing be strictly interdicted, since it must prove injurious from its solvent power over the salts of copper. Should any inflammatory symptoms remain after the presumed evacuation of the poison they should be treated like gastritis, and opium and antispasmodics may be indicated for the spas- modic affections that are apt to remain. COPYING INK. This is made by dis- solving ^ oz. of moist sugar in i pint of common writing ink. COPYING PAPER. This, called also tracing paper, is made by brushing over tissue paper, or silver paper, as it is sometimes called, with a mixture composed of 1 oz. of Canada balsam mixed with 1 oz. of spirit of turpentine. Hang the paper up until dry. If one coating of the mixture does not render the paper suffi- ciently transparent give it a second coating. CORAL is the habitation of a marine insect, and is raised by degrees by that insect from the bottom of the sea, so as to form some of the reefs most dangerous to the navigator. There are properly but three kinds of coral, namely, red, white, and black. The last of these is the rarest and most esteemed. When coral is first taken out of the sea the small protuberances on its surface are soft, and yield on expression a milky juice which effervesces with acids. The cortical part, or the external coat, is not so com- pact as the internal, and may easily be separated while in a fresh state. The greatest traffic in this article is carried on at Genoa and Leghorn. Coral is not unfrequently imitated by artificial- compositions so as to resemble the real; but this fraud may be detected by exposing it to fire, as the counterfeit does not afford the alkaline 2 X[ 354 ] COR COR eartli yielded by the genuine coral. The colour- ing ingredients employed in preparing the former are cinnabar and minium, both of which are easily ascertained. The natural coral re- ceives its colour from iron. For ornamental work not requiring rough usage artificial coral may be made by melting together 4 ozs. of common resiu and 1 oz. of vermilion, stirring them well, and dipping into the melted mixture small twigs of trees, cinders, or other bodies having the form of native coral. CORD-EDGE. The strip of silk or satin of which cord-edge is made is cut on the cross, or Mas, as it is called ; that is, neither straight along by the selvage nor off the breadth, but between the two. Cut in this manner the strip stretches easily, and can he turned this way and that without puckering, as a straight piece never does. This strip is generally about an inch wide. It should be quite evenly cut, and several lengths should be joined before you begin to make the cord-edge. The black or white cord, of the length required, is laid along the middle of the strip of silk; the upper half of the silk is folded down over the cord, and the two thicknesses of silk are tacked together so as to inclose the cord between them. What you have chiefly to look to is that your joins are neatly made, so that they will neither give way nor show any of the white of the selvage, and that the two edges of the silk are kept so even as that the cord shall never be left bare either on the upper or under side. You will also avoid leaving long thread-ends, which will annoy those ■who are to use the cord-edge. When the cord-edge is to be made of merino, or of any twilled material, care must be taken to cut the strips on such a bias or cross as that the twill may lie across the cord, instead of run- ning along it. The first looks neat—the latter particularly ugly. It is a temptation, when small bits of silk are lying about, to take any that are on any cross for making cord-edge ; but the same piece of cord-edge should be made of strips cut all on the same cross. Two bits, one cut from left to right, and the other from right to left, may have quite a different shade when joined, so as to look as if they did not come off the same piece. To make double cord-edge tack together two single cord-edges, leaving one a little below the other. A more experienced hand makes double cord-edge with less waste of time and of silk. She cuts the strip rather wider than for a single edge, runs a cord into each edge, and then, in using the edge, sets the two cords on together. —{The Dress-maker.) CORDIAL, GODFREY'S. This is a pre- paration cf opium, and tliough it may quiet a child by stupefying it, yet, if frequently given, it invariably injures the child's health perma- nently. It is given in a dose from half a tea- spoonful to a dessert-spoonful, according to the child's age. Boil ^ oz. of each of the seeds of anise, coriander, and caraway, and 4^ ozs. of sassafras chips into 3 pints of water until re- duced to 1 pint; then add 3 lbs. of very brown sugar; boil again gently for ten minutes. When cold add 1.^ ozs. of laudanum. CORDIALS, DOMESTIC. Cinnamon Cor- dial. Take 1 oz. of the finest cinnamon; bruise it in a mortar, put it into a bottle, and add a pint of spirit of wine. Now pro- ceed exactly as is done in making lemon brandy, excepting that it will be well to strain through fine muslin before filtering through blotting paper, as the cinnamon clogs up the filter and greatly retards the process. Ginger Cordial. Take 2 ozs. of the very best ground ginger; put it into a large earthen vessel (a stew-pot); pour on it two quarts of cold water; stir well with a clean stick or a silver spoon, and put the vessel into the oven of the common Idtcheu range. When it begins to simmer stir again, and when it boils open the oven door, and let it continue to simmer gently for six hours, occasionally stirring it; then take it out of the oven, and cover it up. The next day put it into the oven again for six hours, stirring it every now and then; take it out, let it stand to cool, and when cold pour off the clearer liquor, for most of the ginger will have fallen to the bottom. There should be a quart of liquor; if there is more the simmering must be continued longer; if less, water should be added to make up the deficiency. Now dissolve in the quart of ginger water 2 lbs. of treble- refined lump sugar; bring it to the boil; add to it when cold a quart of spirits of wine ; stir the whole well together, and filter. When bitter almonds are not thought objectionable the ad- dition of a few to the spirits of wine, some few days before it is added to the ginger syrup, will be found an improvement. This cordial has a little but not much colour. It should be kept longer than most of the others ; but in six months it will be in tolerable condition. Lemon Cosdial—Lemon Brandy. Take 8 fine lemons, having a clear, unspotted skin and a rough surface; pare the rind off very thin; divide it into small shreds ; put them into a bottle; add a pint of spirits of wine (a dozen blanched and bruised bitter almonds are a judicious addition), cork the bottle, and let it stand six days. Make a syrup of 1 lb. of treble-refined sugar ; bring it to the boil; let it cool; pour it into the bottle; shake the whole well; let it stand six days more; filter through blotthig paper, and the cordial is made. So prepared it is perfectly clear, and of a fine delicate lemon[ 355 ] COR COR colour. It will be ready for drinking in a few weeks, but will be greatly the better for being kept longer. NoYEAU. In some cordials the flavouring article should be first mixed with the syrup ; in others the sugar should bo dissolved in an infusion of the flavouring substance; and in others this substance should be first mixed with the spirit. The last-meutioned is the way in which we make noyeau. Take I lbs. of bitter almonds and the thinly pared rind of a fine lemon; blanch the almonds, and shred the lemon-peel into small bits; put them together into a mortar, and bruise them to as fine a powder as possible; put the powder into a gallon stone bottle, and add 2 quarts of diluted spirits of wine (1 quart of spirits •")f wine and 1 quart of water). Cork the bottle particularly well, make a point of shalung it thoroughly once every day, and at the end of a week it will be ready for the next stage of the process. Now make a syrup of 2 lbs. of lump sugar to 1 quart of water ; let it stand till cold, and then pour it into the bottle ; mix the whole well by shaking the bottle, and let it stand auother week. Now strain the liquor from the almond powder, &c., and filter it through white blotting paper : a common funnel will do for the purpose, putting a few slips of wood down the inside of the funnel. To make the filter take a sheet of blotting paper, square it, put corner to corner, and double it again ; the slips of wood prevent the paper from adhering closely to the sides of the funnel, and in that way accelerate the process. The noyeau is now ready for bottling. It should be most care- fully corked. It maij be drunk directly, but it ought not to be used for at least two months, and it will not have reached excellence in less than a year; indeed, it will go on improving for many years. CORDIALS, MEDICAL. Substances which, when taken into the stomach, excite an active warm sensation have received the denomination of cordials, a term which, though not strictly correct, it becomes expedient to adopt. Being given with mere cordial effect, or combined with substances usually administered in low febrile affections, they may be divided into simple and febrifuge. Simple cordials consist of such articles as peppermint, pennyroyal, and cinnamon waters, and of wines such as Madeira and sherry. Still more potent remedies of this class are cam- phor, spirit of peppermint, camphor mixture, compound spirits of lavender and cinnamon, aromatic confection, and sulphuric ether. Brandy, rum, and spiiituous compounds are, too, occasionally used as cordials. These last should be cautiously had recourse to. In the urgent stages of asthma, gout, spasms and convulsions simple cordials are usually ad ministered. In low malignant fevers the febri- fuge should be preferred. Suitable articles of nutritious diet may accompany their use. Cordial Bolus. Take of cinnamon bark and ginger powdered each 6 grains ; aromatic con- fection as much as is sufficient. Make a bolus. To be taken every four hours. Cordial Mixtures. Take of peppermint water 5 fluid ozs.; aromatic confection, 2 drachms ; spirit of peppermint and syrup of ginger, each \ fluid oz. Mix them. Three table-spoonsful to be administered three or four times a day. Or, take of camphor mixture 6 fluid ozs.; sul- phuric ether, 2 fluid drachms. *Mix them. Two table-spoonsful to be taken as occasion may re- quire. Cordial Draughts. Take of camphor mixture and peppermint water each 6 fluid drachms; aromatic confection, 1 scruple ; spirit of pepper- mint and syrup of ginger, each 1 fluid drachm. Make a draught. To be taken every four hours. Or, take of camphor mixture 1 fluid oz.; sul- phuric ether, 30 minims. Make a draught. It must be given as the preceding. Febrifuge Cordials. Of this denomina- tion are camphor, serpentary, and contrajerva, either administered separately or combined with such articles as solution of acetate of ammonia. Febrifuge Cordial Bolus. Take of camphor 4 grains; serpentary root, J scruple ; aromatic confection as much as is sufficient. Make a bolus. To be taken every four hours. Cordial Febrifuge Mixtures. Take of car- bonate of potash 1 drachm; citric acid as much as is sufficient to saturate the carbonate of potash; the effervescence ceasing, add camphor mixture, 3 fluid ozs.; aromatic confection, 2 drachms ; spirit of peppermint and syrup of ginger, each ^ fluid oz. Mix them. Three table- spoonsful may be given every three hours. Or, take of solution of acetate of ammonia 2 fluid ozs.; camphor mixture, 3 fluid ozs.; sulphuric ether, 2 fluid drachms ; syrup, ^ fluid oz. Mix them. It should be taken as the preceding. Or, take of carbonate of potash 1 scruple; cin- namon water, 2 fluid drachms; distilled water, 7 fluid drachms; syrup of ginger, 1 fluid drachm. Make a draught. To be given with a table-spoonful of lemon juice in the act of effervescence, and to be repeated as occiision requires. CORIANDER (Coriandrum sativum). The whole plant whilst green has a nauseous, un- grateful smell like bugs, but the seed when dry is of a pleasant agreeable scent. It is generally sown for the benefit of the seed, though it is found wild in divers places, flowering in June; and the seed, which is the only part used, ia[ 356 3 COR COR ripe in July and August. It is grateful and strengthening to the stomaohj helps digestion, expels wind, and is frequently used as a corrector in strong purging medicines, checking their tea* dency to produce griping. CORIANDER DRAGfiES. Take any quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the tossing pan over the fire, and let them warm. When they are warm throw them in alwut half a glass of vinegar, and stir them well till they are dry; have clarified sugar, which hoil in another pan; then when the corianders are dry add a little gum to them, do the same again till they are dry, and continue so doing till you see they are covered to the size you want to have them. When that is done take the corianders out from the pan, wash them well, put them in again, and stir them well till they are all warm; then take your clarified sugar which you have previously boiled to the first degree. When this is done put it in an instrument of copper made on purpose for the operation, and at the bottom of which there is a little hole. Hang it up by a packthread string, that the sugar may fall from about a yard high into the pan where the corianders are. While the sugar falls into your pan keep stirring your dragees till you see they are well pearled over, or rough and grainy. When they are sufficiently so take them out, and place them in the stove to finish drying, CORIANDER ICES. Bruise 1 oz. of cori. ander seeds, infuse them about an hour in 1 pint of warm water with | lb. of sugar, and sift through a napkin ; then finish like other ices. CORIANDER. SUGARED. Those seeds are sugared in the same manner as sugared almonds. CORIANDER WATER. Having cleared your coriander seeds from the husks, put a handful into 1 quart of water, with ^ lb. of sugar, and set it by to infuse for two or three hours; then pour the liquor out of one pot into another. Strain it and keep it for use. CORK. This light, readily compressible, and elastic substance is produced chieily in Spain and Portugal by a species of oak (Quercus suber). Of this tree it is the outer bark. About 45,000 cwts. are annually imported into this iountry. Cork is applied to various uses by different nations. The Egyptians made coffins of it, which, being lined with a resinous composition, preserved dead bodies from corruption. The Spaniards burn it to make that colour we call Spanish black used by painters; they also em- ploy it to line stone walls, an expedient which not only renders them much warmer, but also prevents their becoming moist in damp weather. In medicine the bark as well as the acorn of the cork tree is reputed to be astringent after being burnt, reduced to powder, and used externally; but in Britain the former is prin- cipally employed for stopping bottles and casks, and lining the inner soles of shoes and slippers. For bottling we warn our readers to employ none but the best corks. Many bottles of wine and of other liquors are injured or lost by a false economy when purchasing corks. The best are called velvet corks, and none others should be used. See Bottling. CORNER DISHES. Slices of apples and potatoes fried make a pretty corner dish, with a light netted doily under them. During the Christmas festivities ladies are frequently at a loss for a change in their routine of supper entertainments. The above will be found a favourite. Ham sliced so thin as to curl, and built pyramidically, interspersed with parsley, looks extremely well as another corner dish. CORN-FLOWER. See Bbeak-your-Spec- TACLES. CORNS. These are small hard tumours, commonly seated on the toes or on other parts of the feet. Sometimes they affect the hands. In some instances the skin is altogether the seat of the disorder ; in others corns extend to the cellular substance. In the first mode the indurated part is moveable, in the latter it is fixed. Acute pain and more or less of inability to walk are other characteristics. They are ge- nerally the effect of pressure, and usually arise from shoes of too small dimension. The common mode of treating corns is by first bathing the feet for about half an hour in warm water, and then paring off as much of the part as possible without giving pain. A little ad- hesive plaster may be afterwards applied. Tlie process should be occasionally repeated. If the causes inducing the complaint be at the same time also removed it generally proves effectual. Another method is to allow the corn to grow to some length through a piece of perforated leather. They may be afterwards cut round the root, or simply extracted. Should the corn be situated in the sole of the foot it will be sometimes expedient to put in the shoe a felt sole, in which a hole may be made large enough to admit the part painfully afflicted. As a preventive of this troublesome afiection the size and figure of the shoe ought to be strictly attended to. It should be made sufficiently large, and of a shape correspondent to that of the foot. CORPULENCY. When corpulency reaches a certain extent it becomes an absolute dis- ease. Persons predisposed to this state of body who are enabled to indulge in good feeding and much sleep, a calm indolent life, free from mental inquietude, are sure to be visited by it.COB [ 357 ] COR As corpulency depends upon too great an ao- cumulatiou of fat the patient should endeavour to get rid of it gradually, without injury to the constitution, by diminishing his usual quantity of nourishment, and substituting less nutritious substances. He should abstain from drink, par- ticularly fermented liquors, eat no suppers, use much exercise by day, take short rest, rise early every morning, &c. By these and such-like means corpulence may be reduced in a gradual manner without injuring the general health. Nitric acid, in the proportion of 9 drachms to 1 pint of water daily, has been advised to re- duce a corpulent habit; and among other medi- cines, conjoined with the above method of train- ing, those promoting perspiration, with occasional moderate purging, have been employed. CORROSION OF METALS. To prevent this dip the metal into a mixture of equal quantities of nitric acid and water; then dip the metal into linseed oil; let the superfluous oil drain away, and the remainder dry on. This effectually preserves a metal from rusting or oxidation. CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE is a deadly poison; indeed, it is one of the most acrid and active of all metallic preparations. In well- directed doses, however, it is frequently of ser- vice in secondary syphilis, and in cases of analogous disease, when it would be improper to administer the other forms of mercury. In obstinate cutaneous diseases its administration in small doses is often very serviceable. Its application also as a lotion to leprous affections, in the proportion of about \ grain to 1^ fluid oz. of some liquid vehicle, has frequently been highly beneficial, In directing the use of so acrid a lotion we should caution the patient not to touch his eyes until his hands have been washed. In consequence of a neglect of tbis kind very severe ophthalmia has been pro- duced. Its exhibition should be accompanied with mucilaginous drinks. When an over-dose has been taken the white of egg diluted with water is the best antidote; for Orfila has found that albumen decomposes it, reducing it to the state of mild muriate, whilst the compound which it forms with it is inert. More recently vegetable gluten, as existing in wheat flour, is said to answer as well as albumen, for the administration of which all that is required is to give wheat flour and water. CORSETS. We must admit that corsets may be rendered necessary by their use from childhood, and could not ad\ise, for modesty's sake, the entire disuse of this description of vest- ment, recommending in their stead a species of corset or bodice that would embrace the person without imposing undue restraint. This kind of corset was used by the women of ancient Greece, whose exquisite forms have been handed to us through the sculptor's art, and regarded in all ages as models of womanly beauty. It may not be unprofitable to contrast the attire and personal appearance of a matron or maiden of ancient Greece and a wife or daughter of Great Britain in our own times. The former is clad in soft flowing drapery, which reveals, with due regard to delicacy, the undulating outline of the form ; the upper part of the garment is crossed gracefully over her swelling bosom, whilst u girdle confines the lower part about her round but uncompressed waist, the vestment falling in elegant folds around her feet. The latter is attired in a robe that fits tightly to the upper part of her person, the artistic beauty of the bust being utterly destroyed by the bosom being raised to an unnatural height, the waist elon- gated beyond nature's limits, and too frequently compressed into the smallest possible compass ; the lower part of the garment is of an enormous width, and stands out from the person, imparting a rotundity to the lower portion of the figure that is totally at variance and out of proportion with the upper. To the skirt of the robe are fre- quently attached deep flounces or puffings, which materially add to the size of the dress, causing the wearer to appear badly formed, be she so or not. According to all recognised rules of beauty promulgated alike by ancient and modern masters the distance should be short from the shoulder to the waist, and comparatively long from the waist to the ankle. Thus to have a perfect form it is requisite to have a short body and long limbs, and this rule applies alike to the male and female forms. But the present style of dress sets at naught all artistic and recognised formula, as the body is made to ap- pear unnaturally long, and the lower part of the person is divided into as many sections as prac- ticable by flounces and furbelows. None save a very tall, slender woman should wear a flounced robe, and then only if her gait and carriage be remarkably good. Although we cannot say with the poet peer " that we hate a dumpy woman," we entertain a strong dislike to see apetite dame with a garment encumbered with a quantity of trimming, as her figure looks most inelegant, the dimensions of the lower portion of her attire giving a breadth to her person that is out of all proportion with her height. None of these in- congruities are apparent in the ancient costume of the Greeks, and we will simply inquire of our fair perasei's which picture is the moi'e pleasant to the mental vision, that of the Greek or British matron. Corsets or stays are worn for the sake of the firm hold which they insure to the supei'- incumbent garments, and also for their supposed power of giving a sylph-like form to the femaleCOR COS [ .338 ] .figure. So far as the fulfilment of the first in- tention is concerned they appear to be indispen- sable in the present construction of European dress, as without some defence of this kind the waist would be injured by being tightly girt, and an undue pressure be exercised on the organs of digestion. It is no uncommon cir- cumstance to find, in some old women who em- ploy a string or cord to fix the petticoats, a transverse fissure on the loins nearly an inch in depth. So far, indeed, stays are useful when thus employed with the intention of avoiding circumscribed constriction, and of rendering the pressure more uniform and diffused; but when for the purpose of bringing the body within the limits of some fancied line of beauty they can- not but meet with the most decided disapproval. Gradual pressure on any part of a living body sooner or later leads to the removal of the compressed part, and this is said to take place from absorption, or, in other words, the pressure irritates a set of vessels provided for taking up useless parts of the frame, and they shortly fall to work and dissipate the matter now regarded as an encumbrance. This process is invariably facilitated by the compressed parts remaining perfectly at rest, a state generally in- sured by the continuance of the pressure. The first evidence, therefore, of the pernicious effects of a belt round the body is the wasting of those muscles which are designed for the support of the bony coverings of the chest. Slowly but surely do these muscles disappear, and with the same certainty does the spinal column come to have its sole dependence for its erect posture on the deceitful jean or calico machine, which has, under the disguise of friendship, wrought its ruin. If, however, the mischief terminated here we should not have much reason to com- plain, as with proper management a wasted muscle may soon be restored to its healthy and vigorous dimensions. But no; a chain of actions has been called into operation—the first of a series of destructive agencies has commenced its havoc, and the road to ruin of the silly victim is now clearly marked. The bones of the chest and back, now deprived of their guardian muscles, yield readily to the quiet onsets of the instru- ment of fashion ; they are crushed together so long as they will bend one upon another, and when that bending ceases their absorbent vessels are speedily called into play, as in the case of the muscles, and the owner's wishes are gratified by a short life-rent of a horrible deformity, inno- cently called by the world "ahandsome waist!" The word " waist" expresses a something for which we can find no parallel in nature ; some- thing, in fact, which should not exist, and never would have been but for the perverted ideas of beauty which have been suffered too long to pass current with the people. It signifies an unnatural indentation, embracing the body, and dividing it into an upper and a lower portion. COSMETICS. Ladies who have once adopted the use of paint become insensibly so accustomed to the sight of the artificial bloom that it always appears to them less intense than it really is; they, therefore, invariably lay on a thicker coat than is necessary. To the lady at her toilet glass the colour seems veiy be- coming, when, in sober truth, it is so dreadfully exaggerated that she exposes herself to one of three things—to immediate detection by eveiy one who sees her (and this is now generally the case), or else to the imputation of being either a termagant or a drinker in private of ardent spirits. We most earnestly, therefore, deprecate this excess of bloom. We would rather see too little than too much; and such of our fair readers as are votaries of the hare's foot may depend upon it that when they deem them- selves under-rouged they are the very pink of perfection, so far as the best carmine can make them. Let them, therefore, rely more upon the judgment of their maids than upon their own. As for those who have no waiting- maids, let them consult whom they can, and, in default of advisers, let them in their own judgment be under-painted. The use of pearl powder, as it is generally termed, is very injurious not only to the skin, but to the general health. Certain substances brought too near it turn it to a dark lead colour. Let the lady who beautifies with this compound avoid all preparations of onions—they would prove fatal to her beauty. Pearl powder, moreover, is always detected, for it imparts a pale, sickly hue, which is the more apparent from its contrast with the carmine. The natural skin is of a pink white, and to imitate this a pink tinge is often given to the pearl powder; but the aim is missed, for the pink and white never blend sufficiently to form a proj^er tint. White paint of any kind, besides that it often gives a ghastly appearance, is quite unnecessary. The skin, however dark or freckled, will generally not look ill in the evening in well-lighted apart- ments, especially when a reasonable quantity of carmine has imparted to the cheeks a bloom, which at a distance conceals the ravages of age, provided it be not outre; but the white, from its unnatural colour, even a long way off, always draws attention. If, however, ladies will use white, let them have some French chalk blanched and ground into an impalpable powder. They can then make the tint they wish by mixing with the chalk a sufiicient quantity of the carmine herein- after indicated. This mixture is, at all events, fully as good as the pearl powder, if not better;COS COS [ 339 ] and it has the farther advautago of being quite hmoxious. As the habitual use of the paints usually sold for the toilet withers and dries up the skin ladies should previously saturate the pores of the skin with some unctuous substance, which will prevent it from contracting and peeling off, or else being covered with blotches. One of the best articles for this purpose is cold cream, made either with purified hog's lard beaten up with rose water, or else with a thin ointment, made in the sand bath, of almond oil and spermaceti, and when cold beaten up with rose water. The greatest enemy to a painted face is per- spiration, and the least touch of the pocket handkerchief produces sad confusion on cheeks displaying, but an instant before, artificial hues of youth and beauty. Hence has, no doubt, arisen the " golden rule " that " it is ill-bred to mop in company;" that, however strongly the perspiration may trickle from your head, face, and beard, you are not to relieve yourself from the inconvenience by the use of your pocket handkerchief, but rather let the unseemly stream meander down your cheeks, finding its way over your rouge, if you have any, without very much damage to the roses and lilies of your complexion. Milk of Eoses. Take prepared kali, 6 grains; oil of almonds, loz.; essence of ber- gamot, 2 drachms ; rose water, 3 ozs.; orange- flower water, 2 drachms : mix. Orange Pommade. Hog's lard, 1 lb.; oil of palms, 8 ozs.; essence of neroli, loz. Peael Powder. Magisteryof bismuth, French chalk scraped finely by Dutch rushes, of each equal parts. Pommade Divine. Beef marrow, 1 lb. 8 ozs.; cinnamon, l^oz.; storax, calamine, benzoin, and Florentine orris, of each 1 oz.; cloves and nutmegs, of each 1 drachm. Let them simmer together for five minutes ; then strain for use. Roll Pomatum. Suet, 5 lbs.; white wax, 8 ozs.; spermaceti, 2 ozs.; oil of lavender and essence of bergamot, each ^ oz. Rouge. There is a Brazil wood of a fine golden red, called Pernambouc Brazil wood. Take 9 ozs. of this wood, cut it into little bits, and pound them well in a very clean iron mortar with a very heavy pestle, so as to bruise the wood almost to a pulp ; put it into a well-tinned stewpan, with a quart of the best white wine vinegar, and let them boil together during half an hour over a good fire, keeping the stewpan well covered; strain the liquid through linen, pressing out everything that will go through; put it again into the stewpan, which must pre- viously be well washed and wiped, and place it once more over the fire. Meanwhile, dissolve in ] pint of the same kind of vinegar 4J ozs. of pounded alum ; mix the two liquids together over the fire, stir them well with a wooden spoon entirely free from grease, and let them gently simmer. A scum will now rise, which Avitli a very clean skimmer must be carefully taken off, well drained, and then placed upon sheets of white letter paper. This scum must be gradually dried in a very slack oven, or on a stove very little heated, or before the fire, taking care that no dust falls upon it. When dry it will form a most delicate and beautiful rouge, which will never injure the most sensitive skiu. See Cold Cream, Cologne Water, &c. COSTIVENESS. It is not always in the invalid or the feeble that costiveness is found to prevail, as it often afflicts persons of a com- pact and robust habit, with hearty appetite and strong digestive powers, or who use violent exercise, which heats the blood and throws off an excess of perspiration from the surface. In both the strong and the feeble, however, costive- ness may arise from a too stimulant diet, parti- cularly rough port wine, porter, or beer which is either hard or very bitter from hops or quassia, but particularly from the bread which is ren- dered unnaturally white by alum in order to please the eye. Salted and high-seasoned meats have the same effect. Although, also, violent exercise may be a cause of costiveness, such as too much walking or riding, by carrying off the fluids from the bowels through the skin, yet costiveness will be no less caused by want of exercise, which renders the bowels sluggish and torpid. The absurd custom, also, of wear- ing flannel, so prevalent among many, to their decided injury, is a veiy common cause of costiveness, by acting in the same way on the skin as too much exercise, and carrying off more moisture from the body than can be com- fortably spared. Nothing, however, tends more to confirm a costive habit than fwrpor of the liver and a deficiency of bile. Such being a few of the more common causes of the disorder, we shall next mention some of the attendant symptoms. A person who is costive feels always unconi- fortable and uneasy, not only in his bowels, but in his whole system. There are pains of a wearied or nervous kind in the back or limbs, distressing attacks of what we call fidgets, with violent headaches, flatulence, belching, heart- burn, and most troublesome indigestion, every- thing which is taken into the stomach being instantly corrupted or converted into vinegar. Palpitations of the heart are also common at- tendants on costiveness, with fretful temper, low spirits, and all the disorders of hypochondriasis and melancholy. We need scarcely remark that colic, lumbago, and sciatica are likewise fre-COT COU [ 3(30 ] quent concomitants of costiveness, and some- times it leads to epilepsy, apoplexy, aud con- vulsions. As it is certain that everything which in- creases the perspiration of the skin and the action of the numerous absorbent vessels of the bowels has a strong tendency to produce costive- ness, those who are apt to be so affected ought to be cautioned against all violent exercise and other causes of sweat. The passive exercise of a carriage, gentle though it be, is well known to be a predisposing cause of confinement of the bowels ; and even riding on horseback is not quite free from the same objection, but it possesses many counterbalancing good qualities. A warm soft bed is objectionable for the same reason. Much depends on diet in obviating costiveness; but it is impossible to lay down any general rule in this respect, on account of the various and conflicting constitutions of in- dividuals. It is certain, however, that generally speaking a rather stimulating food is proper in a tendency to costiveness; but every person can judge of the kind of food that suits his constitu- tion. Of laxative medicines one of the best is sulphur, about a tea-spoonful as a dose, especially in the form of an electuary, with cream of tartar and honey, or molasses ; and when a pur- gative is required none answers so well as the common Seidlitz powder taken early in the morning, and some warm tea an hour afterwards. It generally produces one loose, watery, and easy motion, with great relief to the bowels, particularly where piles, as they often do, ac- company costiveness. A still better remedy for costiveness is obtained by keeping up a regular and due secretion from the liver and other glandular organs in the interior of the body. For this purpose the infusion pr decQction of dandelion, rendered acid with cream of tartar, and taken in the quantity of three or four tea- cupsful a day, is an excellent medicine when continued for a sufficient length of time. Small doses of the blue pill, with | grain of ipecacu- anha, or f grain of tartrite of antimony at bed- time, may be at first necessary when com- mencing the dandelion and cream of tartar. COTTON. See Calico. COTTON BALLS AND REELS. The thread wound upon these are of twenty degrees of fineness. We have endeavoured to find a guide for those who are ordering cotton thread, so that by naming some particular number the haberdasher would be able at once to forward the size required. This is rendered uncertain by the manufacturers not being uniform in their numbering. When, therefore, a purchaser can- not go to the shop a sample of the required size must be sent. As an example of the variation in the numjjerjngs we give in parallel columns those of two makers. The numbers opposite to each other are alike in size. Brook's Balls Tailor's Brook's Balls Taylor's or Heels. licels. or Reels. Reels. JNo. 0 JNo. i No. 28 No. 11 lU o 12 q o oo 14. 14 4 40 16 16 5 50 18 18 6 60 20 20 7 70 30 22 8 80 40 24 9 90 60 26 10 100 100 COUGH, A cough is generally the effect of a cold [see Catarrh), which has either been improperly ti'eated or entirely neglected. When it proves obstinate there is always reason to fear the consequences, as this sliows a weak state of the lungs, and is often the forerunner of consumption. If the cough be violent and the patient young and strong, with a hard quick pulse, bleeding will be proper; but in weak and relaxed habits bleeding rather prolongs the disease. When the patient spits freely bleeding is unnecessary, and sometimes hurtful, as it tends to lessen that discharge. When the cough is not attended with any degree of feyer, and the spittle is viscid and tough, sharp pectoral medicines are to be ad- ministered, as gum ammoniac, squills, &c. Two table-spoonsful of the solution of gum ammoniac may be taken three or four times a day, more or less, according to the age and constitution of the patient. Squills may be given various ways : two ounces of the vinegar, the oxymel, pr the syrup may be mixed with the same quantity of simple cinnamon water, to which may be added an ounce of common water and an ounce of balsamic syrup. Two table-spoons- ful of this mixtui'e may be taken three or four times a day. Or, still better, take mixture of ammonia, 5^ ozs.; oxymel of squills, \ oz. Make a mixture, of which take two dessert- spoonsful often, or when the cough is trouble- some. A syrup made of equal parts pf lemon juice, honey, and sugar candy is likewise very proper in this kind of cough. A table-spoonful of it may be taken at pleasure. But when the defluxion is sharp and thin these medicines rather do hurt. In this case gentle opiates, combined with diaphoretics, oils, and mucilages, are more proper. Take solution of the acetate of ammonia, 3 drachms ; muci- lage of Gr. acacia, 1 oz.; syrup of tolu, 1 drachm; tincture of opium, 25 drops. Make a draught, to be taken at bedtime. A cup of an infusion of poppy leaves and marsh-mallow roots, or the flowers of coltsfoot, may be taken frequently; or a tea-spoonful of paregoric elixir may be putcou cou C 301 ] into the patient's drink twice a day. Fuller's Spanish infusion is also a very proper medicine in this case, and may be taken in the quantity of a tea-cupful three or four times a day. In obstinate coughs proceeding from a flux of humours upon the lungs it will often be necessary, besides expectorating medicines, to have recourse to issues, setons, or some other drain. In this case we have often observed the most happy effects from a Burgundy-pitch plaster applied between the shoulders. We have ordered this simple remedy in the most obstinate coughs in a great number of cases, and in many different constitutions, without ever knowing it fail to give relief, unless there ■were evident signs of an ulcer in the lungs. About the bulk of a nutmeg of Burgundy pitch may be spread thinly upon a piece of soft leather about the size of the hand, and laid be- tween the shoulder-blades. It may be taken off and wiped every three or four days, and ought to be renewed once a fortnight or three weeks. This is, indeed, a cheap and simple medicine, and consequently apt to be despised; but we will venture to affirm that the whole materia medica does not afford an application more effi- cacious in almost every kind of cough. It has not, indeed, always an immediate effect, but if kept on for some time it will succeed where most other medicines fail. The only inconvenience attending this plaster is the itching which it occasions ; but surely this may be dispensed with, considering the advantage which the patient may expect to reap from the application; besides, when the itching becomes very uneasy the plaster may be taken off, and the part rubbed with a dry cloth, or washed with a little warm milk and water. Some cau- tion, indeed, is necessary in discontinuing the use of such a plaster. This, however, may be safely done by making it smaller by degrees, and at length quitting it altogether in a waim season. But coughs proceed from many other causes besides defluxions upon the lungs. In these cases the cure is not to be attempted by pectoral medicines. Thus, in a cough proceeding from the foulness and debility of the stomach, syrups, oils, mucilages, and all kinds of balsamic medi- cines do hurt. The stomach cough may be known from one that is owing to a fault in the lungs by this—that in the latter the patient coughs whenever he inspires or draws in his breath fully, but in the former that does not happen. See Cough, Stomach. In coughs which proceed from a debility of the stomach the Peru/ian bark is likewise of con- siderable service. It may either be chevved, taken in powder, or made into a tincture alopg with other stomachic bitters. A nervous cough can only he removed by chaiige of air and proper exercise, to which may be added the use of gentle opiates. Instead of the saponaceous pill, the paregoric elixir, &c., which are only opium disguised, ten, fifteen, twenty, or twenty-five drops of liquid laudanum, more or less, as circumstances require, may be taken at bedtime, or when the cough is most troublesome. Take oxymel of squills, ^oz.; paregoric elixir, 2 drachms, of which a table- spoonful may be taken three or four times a day. Immersing the feet and hands in warm water will often appease the violence of a nervous cough. When a cough is only the symptom of some other malady it is in vain to attempt to remove it without first curing the disease from which it proceeds. Thus, when a cough is occasioned by teething, keeping the body open, scarifying the gums, or whatever facilitates the cutting of the teeth, likewise appeases the cough. In like manner, when worms occasion a cough, such medicines as remove these vermin will generally cure the cough, as bitter purgatives, oily clysters, and such-like. A cough is not only a symptom, but is often likewise the forerunner of diseases. Thus the gout is frequently ushered in by a very trouble- some cough, which affects the patient for some days before the coming on of the fit. This cough is generally removed by a paroxysm of the gout, which should therefore be promoted by keeping the extremities warm, drinking warm liquors, and bathing the feet and legs frequently in lukewarm water. COUGH, STOMACH. For immediate re- lief of the cough, if it is hacking and trouble- some, we know nothing which will be more effectual than the warm bath or the opiate pill for liver cough :—Take of opium 1 grain; sulnnuriate of mercury, 3 grains ; extract of rhubarb, 1 grain. Make a pill, to be taken on going to bed, and followed in the morning with a cup of senna tea. COU&LAUFFLE, GERMAN. TakeSlbs. of flour, l^oz. of yeast, 1 oz. of fine salt, Jib. of sugar, 12 eggs, the yolks of 12 more, 2 lbs. of fresh butter, 3 glasses of milk, and ^Ib. of sweet almonds. Proceed with these materials in the following manner: — Put the butter, having slightly warmed ^ lb. of it, into a glazed pan, and with a large wooden spoon work it up for six or seven minutes; put in 2 whole eggs, and stir it two minutes; then add 3 yolks, and stir again two minutes. In this manner put in the whole number of eggs and yolks, which will produce a kind of smooth cream ; then by degrees mix in 2 lbs. of flour. Dissolve the yeast in a glass of warm milk, and strain it through fi napkin; stir this in well with anotherCOW cou [ 362 ] ^Ib. of flour; make a hollow in the paste, in which put the salt aud sugar in powder; after- wards pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the whole together with the remainder of the flour. Continue to work it up for some minutes after the whole ingredients are put in, adding a small quantity of warm milk, which will render it smooth. Have a mould ready, butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each cut in half, over the bottom of the mould in forms, on which pour the paste carefully and in small quantities, so as not to derange the almonds. Put your mould in a warm but not a hot place, that the cake may rise properly; and when this operation has taken place put it into a moderate oven, which should be kept closed. In an hour's time look at the couglaajjia, and if it be flexible and of a light colour let it remain thirty or forty minutes longer, but if it be firm and red it is sufficiently done. When taken from the mould put it into the oven again for a few minutes. COUGLAUPPLES, SMALL. To make a dozen small couglauffles take f lb. of flour, 3 drachms of yeast, 3 drachms of salt, 2 whole eggs and 3 yolks, 2 ozs. of sugar, a little cream, and ^Ib. of butter. The preparation is the same as the German couglauffles. When the paste is made divide it into twelve equal parts. Butter a dozen small biscuit moulds, 1311 them with your preparation, and let them stand. When risen so as to fill the moulds put them into a brisk oven, and take them out as soou as they are of a light colour. COUNTRY CAPTAIN. Cut a fowl in pieces, shred a large onion very small, and fry it brown in butter; sprinkle the fowl with salt, dust it over with fine curry powder, and fry it brown; put all into a stewpan, with a pint of soup, and stew it slowly down to one-half. Serve it with rue. COUQUES. Put into a saucepan the yolks of 16 eggs, the rinds of 2 lemons, loz. of salt, and 2 ozs. of sugar. On these pour a pint of boiling cream, stirring it quickly. Set it on the fire, but do not let it boil. Strain it through a bolter, and then let it cool. Take 2 lbs. of flour, and make a quarter of it into leaven with \oz. of yeast and a little warm water. Keep it rather moist, and put it into a warm place to rise. In the meantime make the remainder of the flour into a paste with the ci'eam and a \ lb. of butter; knead it up five or six times; then put in the leaven, and knead it again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, aud set it in a warm place. In about two hours take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the size of an egg, form them to that shtipe, lay them on a baking tin, and leave them for half an hour to rise; then dorez and bake them in a hot oven When done open each on one side, take out a little of the crumb, in the place of which put a bit of butter worked up with a little salt, and serve them. COURT BOUILLON. Cut a proper quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and turnips, and put them into a saucepan, with butter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, mignonette (see Mignonette), and cloves ; sweat them over a gentle fire ; add white wine vinegar or veijuice ; boil, and then strain it. Serve it with whatever you may require it for. It is generally used for fish. COURT BOUILLON (for all Kinds of Presh-water Fish). Put some water into a fish kettle, with a quart of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaves, and basil, all tied together, some sliced onions, and some carrots; boil the fish in this court bouillon, which will serve for several times, and do not scale it. When the fish will admit of it take care to boil it in a napkin, which makes it more easy to take out, without danger of breaking. COURT PLASTER. Dissolve 1 oz. of isinglass in 4 ozs. of hot water. At the same time dissolve J drachm of benzoin resin in 2 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Strain the two solutions through separate pieces of fine muslin, and then mix them. Apply by means of a brush sevei'al coats of this mixture to silk, black or flesh-coloured, stretched on a frame. That of an old slate or frame for worsted work will do. When dry brush over the same surface with a mixture of i oz. of Chio turpentine and 1 oz. of tincture of benzoin. CO WHAGE, or Cow-itch. The name applied to the terribly irritating hairs produced on the outside of the pods of the Mucuna or Dolichos pruriens. A climbing plant, native of the tropics. The itching caused by these hairs is allayed bj rubbing the place with a solution of green vitriol or with oil. Mixed with treacle and taken niglit and morning these hairs are said to kill internal worms. COW-HEEL: To Fry. Strip the feet asunder, take out all the bones, and put the meat into the frying-pan with some butter. When it has fried a few minutes put in some mint and parsley shred small, a little salt, and some beaten butter; add likewise the yolks of two eggs beaten finely, half a pint of gravy, the juice of a lemon or orange, and a little nutmeg. When the foot is done take it out, put it into a dish, and pour the sauce over it. COW-HEEL : To Pot. Clean and boil the heels till tender ; then cut the meat small, season it with white pepper, salt, and the grating of a nutmeg ; stew it in veal soup half an hour, after which form it into a shape, and pot it as jelly.cow -COW [ 363 ] COW-HEEL, BOILED. Boil a cow-heel very gently in a large saucepan of soft water, ■with nearly a quart of milk, some salt, and four or five large onions. When very tender the cow-heel will be done enough. Serve with the onions. COW-HEEL, SAUCE FOR. Take a table- spoonful of garlic vinegar, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, the same quantity of brown sugar, and as much black pepper. Stir the whole into half a pint of butter melted to oil. COW-HEEL SOUP. Take 6 lbs. of mutton, 5 lbs. of beef, and 4 lbs. of veal (the coarsest pieces will do); cut them across with a knife ; put them into a pot, with an old fowl beaten to pieces, and the knuckle part of a ham. Let them stew without any liquor over a very slow fire, but take care they do not burn to the pot. When they begin to stick to the bottom stir them about, and then put in some good beef broth that has been well skimmed from the fat; put in some turnips, carrots, celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay leaf; add some clear broth, and let it stew about an hour. While this is doing take a cow-heel, split it, and set it on the fire to boil in some of the same broth. When it is very tender take it off, and set on a stew- pan, with some crusts of bread and some more broth; let them soak for eight or ten minutes. When the soup is stewed enough lay the crust in a tureen, the two halves of the cow-heel upon them, and then pour on the soup, which will be very rich and good. COW POX is sometimes communicated casually, but more often by inoculation. The symptoms of casual cow pox, after some appearance of eruption, are sensation of tender- ness and swelling of the glands of the armpit. There are also symptoms resembling those of inflammatory fever, more or less urgent, con- tinuing from one to three or four days. The pustules, which are circular, somewhat resem- bling a wart, are depressed in the middle, and of a bluish hue. They are also surrounded with considerable redness. The matter they contain, though at first thin and colourless, ultimately inclines to yellow, and becomes some- what purulent. The eruption usually appears on the hands and wrists. "Though severe in the part affected, it is never general as in the small pox. It is, nevertheless, occasionally formed on parts which come in contact with the hands, such, for instance, as the nostrils and lips, or those unprotected with an outer skin. The pustules, which continue for some time, usually leave sores healing with difficulty. The cause is infectious matter acting by im- mediate contact, derived fi-om pustules of a palish blue infesting the udders and nipples of cows. This disease, which has been found to prevent the small pox, is sufficiently distinguished from it by the circular wart-like pustules depressed in the middle. Though delirium may occasionally attend the urgency of the febrile symptoms, a fatal termina- tion has never been known to take place. The casual cow pox requires vegetable diet, diluting liquids, cold exposure, together with some lessening of exercise and of the other natural powers. Recourse may be had to simple purgatives. The treatment of the subsequent sores is by common dressing. Vaccine Inoculation. The first appear- ance after the insertion of vaccine matter is a small inflamed spot. This is perceptible the third day on the part receiving the infection, and continues to increase in size ; it also becomes hard. A small circular tumour at length form- ing is elevated above the skin. About the sixth day the centre of the tumour shows a discoloured speck. This arises from a fluid, which gradually increases. The vesicle inclosing it continues to fill until about the tenth day. After the eighth day the pustule is completely formed, the effects ou tlie constitution now becoming more or less perceptible. Slight tokens of fever are commonly preceded by pain in the armpit. Tl>e febrile symptoms, should any such arise, continuing one or two days, ultimately disappear. During or subsequent to the general affection the pustule in the arm is surrounded with a circular inflamed margin, being a proof that the body is sufficiently influenced. After that period the fluid in the pustule gradually dries up. The surrounding redness, too, becoming fainter in a day or two, imperceptibly vanishes. Though the pustule ceases to enlarge, on its surface a hard scab of a brownish colour is formed, which, if not pulled off, remains nearly fourteen days. It at length departs, leaving on the skin little or no vestige. There are various modes of inserting the cow- pox matter. This, which is usually derived from the pustules of a person infected with it, should be transparent. It ought not to be taken later than the ninth day. It may be preserved on glass, on a cotton thread, or on a quill or ivory lancet. Should the cotton thread be used a small scratch on the outer skin must be made on that part of the arm whei'e inoculation for the small pox is performed. A piece of thread may be placed on it. The thread should be re- tained by sticking-plaster. If matter preserved on a quill, glass, or lancet be inserted, the outer skin when raised is afterwards to be pressed down. On withdrawing the object the opera- tion is finished. Tlie still more sure method is by matter takencow [ 304 ] CRA. in the. presence of the person to be inoculated. The lancet should in this case be held so that the fluid may gravitate to the point of the in- strument, which is made to scratch the arm repeatedly until it reaches the true skin. Should any previous eruptive affection have taken place the operation must be postponed. From vaccine inoculation there arises not, as in the inoculated small pox, a constitutional disease requiring attention; neither is there a possibility of thereby communicating to others a fatal distemper, nor of bringing into action diseases such as scrofula and consumption; nor in this species of inoculation need the smallest regard be paid to age or season. The advantages likely to be derived from thus receiving a mild infection, perhaps capable, without much inconvenience, even of annihilating a formidable disease, and one productive of the most extensive mortality, at once strike the imagination. They seem incalculable, and such as can never be sufficiently appreciated. To distinguish the permanent and true taking of the vaccine pox— 1. A perfect vaccine scar should be distinctly observable after a lapse of twenty years, that is to say, the inflammation should have so penetrated the true skin to such a depth that the scar which it occasions should be clearly perceptible in all the periods of after life. In order to obtain this it is necessary that the scab should remain on, or at any rate that cicatrisa- tion of the sore should not be completed prior to the twenty-first day. Cases have occurred, however, in which the cicatrix has formed as early as the fourteenth or fifteenth day. In all such cases the impression of the scar wears out in course of time; the vaccination is imperfect, and the system is either partially, or after the lapse of a certain number of years, open to the attacks of small pox. 2. A true vaccine scar should be circular, or nearly so; that is to say, the specific inflamma- tion should not have been superseded by common inflammation. Should this, indeed, take place late in the disease the scar may be irregular, but the vaccination may still be perfect. When, however, common inflammation supervenes early the scar is irregular in its form, the vaccination is incomplete, and the system remains sus- ceptible of small pox, more or less modified according to the degree of perfection which the vaccine vesicle may previously have attained. The diameter of the scar, provided that scar be circular, is of little moment. That of a six- pence or a small wafer appears to be the largest which is compatible with complete security. 3. The perfect vaccine scar should be in- dented and radiated. It may be proper to pre- mise that the vaccine vesicle has a regular organisation, consisting of cells tied down by a central band, like that of small pox; and it is certainly a mark of the perfection of the vaccine process when the indentations and striae of the original cells remain to testify that the vesicle was uninjured in its progress. These marks are not, however, essential to the per- fection of the vaccine cicatrix. COWSLIP PUDDING. Get the flowers of a peck of cowslips, cut and pound them small, with i lb. of Naples biscuits grated, and 8 pints of cream. Boil them a little, then take them off" the fire, and beat up 16 eggs with a little cream and rose water. Sweeten to your palate. Mix all well together; butter a dish and pour it in. Bake it, and when done throw fine sugar over, and serve it up. COWSLIP WINE. One gallon of water, 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1 Seville orange, and I lemon to every gallon of cowslip pips. First boil the sugar and water an hour, skim it clear, and when boiling pour it out, and let it stand till nearly cold; then put it into the barrel upon the pips, with about a tea-cupful of yeast to eight gallons of wine. Peel half of the oranges and lemons, squeeze the juice into the cask, cut the remainder into slices, which add with the peel. When the fermentation ceases, or has lasted a sufficient time, put to the whole a little brandy. COW'S UDDER (with Verjuice Sauce). Cut the udder in pieces, and put it into a stew- pan, with chopped parsley, chibbal, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and butter. Let it catch ; then add a glass of white wine, broth, pepper, and salt; simmer it to a thick sauce ; then make a liaison with the yolks of two eggs and broth. When ready add a spoonful of verjuice or lemon. CRAB : To Stew. Pick the meat carefully out of a large crab and its claws; cut it into small pieces; mix it with about a fourth part of bread crumbs and a very small quantity of finely shred parsley; season it well, and return it to the shell, with some small bits of butter here and there, enough when warmed to keep it moist. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, or a spoonful of lemon pickle or acid sauce ; put a thick layer of crumbs of bread upon the top, with small bits of butter laid all over it, and bake it in the shell before the fire or in the oven. The shell of one crab will contain the meat of two. CRAB, FARCED. Boil a crab, take the meat out of the shell, and mince the claws with a fresh eel; season it with salt, cloves, mace, and sweet herbs shred small; mix them with the yolks of eggs ; add grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, and boiled artichokes cut into dice if in season or asparagus boiled ; some almondCRA CRA [ 8C5 ] paste, the meat of the body of the crab, and some bread grated. Fill the shells with this compound, and also make some of it into balls ; put them into a dish with white wine and butter, and bake them in a gentle oven. When they are baked put them into another dish, and serve them with beaten butter, large mace, scalded grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, slices of orange or lemon, and the yolks- of raw eggs dissolved in claret or white wine, and beaten up with thick butter. Pour this on the fish; garnish with slices of lemon; stick the balls of farced meat with pistachios, sliced almonds, pine-apple seeds, or some pretty cuts in paste. CRAB PIE. Take half a dozen crabs, boil them, and take the meat out of the shells ; season it with salt and nutmeg; then soak the meat taken out of the bodies with claret wine, cinnamon, some ginger, butter, and juice of orange. Make your pie, put some butter on the bottom, lay in the meat, with artichoke bottoms, the yolks of three or four hard eggs chopped small, asparagus, large mace, barberries, grapes, dates, slices of orange, and butter. When it is baked liquor it with some meat out of the bodies of the crabs, mingled with cream and draNvn butter. CRABS. Though not so well known as the lobster the crab is looked upon by many as being a better flavoured fish, and perhaps rather more digestible. The female is considered inferior to the male, and may be known by the claws being smaller and its tail broader. The heaviest are usually thought to be the best, but those of a middling size are the sweetest. If light they are watery. When in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff. The shell, whether alive or dead, should be of a bright red, and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale, or when the fish has died a natural death. They are boiled in the same manner as lobsters, but require rather .longer time, and are most usually eaten cold with oil and vinegar, thus:—Pick out all the fish from the shell, divide it into small pieces, mixing the rich part well with the rest. Moisten it with salad dressing, and return it to the shell, with an edge all round of sliced lemon. If hot pick the fish out as above; then put the meat, with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, bits of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonsful of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. You may brown it with a salamander, but it should always be served in the shell. Dry toast should be served to eat with it. CRABS: To Boil. Choose your crab of the middling size ; put it into boiling water with salt in it; keep it boiling for about three quarters of an hour. When done wipe the shell quite clean, and rub it over with a little butter. Before they are sent to table the large claws should be broken off, the shell cracked carefully, the tail cut down the middle, and the body sent up whole. CRABS (bkowned in the Shells). Leave tlie great shell whole, mince all the fish, shred some parsley, mushrooms, or truffles, and a little young onion; fry these; put in the minced crab, with the inside bruised, some pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel; stir these about, shake on some flour, and add a little lemon juice, with some good gravy. Let this simmer up; fill the shell or shells ; strew over bread crumbs; brown in a Dutch oven or with a salamander. CRABS, BUTTERED. Pick out the fish, bruise the inside, beat it in a little gravy, with a little wine, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, a few bread crumbs, a piece of butter, a very little flour, and some vinegar or lemon juice. CRACKERS, SOAKED. Pour boiling water on crackers; put in some butter aud a little salt; cover them closely, and keep them warm till tea is ready. If you have milk boil it, and pour it over instead of water. Tbis is easily prepared. CRACKNELS. Mix 1 quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of 4 eggs beaten, with 4 spoonsful of rose water, into a stiff paste with cold water; then rub in 1 lb. of butter, and make into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim; then take them out, and put them in cold water. When hardened lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. CRACKNELS, SOFT. Blanch i lb. of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, adding to them by degrees 6 eggs. When thoroughly pounded pour on them 1 lb. of powder sugar, the same of butter, and the rinds of 2 lemons grated ; beat up these ingredients in the mortar; put 1 lb. of flour on the slab, and, having poured in the almonds, knead them together till they are well incorporated; roll it out, and cut the cracknels into such forms as you think proper; rub them with yolk of egg, and strew over them powder sugar or cinnamon ; then lay them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven, taking great care that they do not burn. When done put them into glasses, and if preserved in a dry place they are the better for keeping. CRACKNUTS. Mix together 8 ozs. of flour and 8 ozs. of sugar; melt 4 ozs. of butter in 2 spoonsful of raisin wine; then with 4 eggs beaten and strained make it into a paste; add caraways, roll it out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of aa egg, and dust sugar over. CRAMP. This, which is adopted as a term in common use, is here confined to cramp asCRA CRA [ 3G6 ] simply influencing the stomach and the legs. In the first of these affections spasm suddenly seizes the stomach. It is also attended with flatulence and excruciating pain. Errors in diet, the other ordinary acting powers improperly regulated, and diseases such as gout may pro- duce it. It may be known from inflammation of the stomach by the absence of fever and of urgent vomiting, also by the excess of the excruciating pain. This complaint, as the result of gout, unless immediately relieved, has sometimes a fatal termination. Such active remedies as brandy somewhat diluted and wine, such as Madeira and sherry, must in- stantly be had recourse to, and, in the absence of the urgent symptoms, suitable articles of generous diet. Simple cordials, volatiles, opiates, and active fomentation are proper. Ether, hartshorn, or spirit of camphor may be rubbed on the region of the stomach. Should costive- ness prevail emollient clysters ought to be injected. In cramp, as influencing the legs, there is excruciating pain. The rigidity of the pav'S and the urgency of the affection are sufficient characteristics. Though sometimes habitual and apt to return, the spasms are generally of short duration. As an attendant of the latter period of pregnancy, in consequence of the pressure of the enlarged womb on the great nerves leading to the extremities, they are also more or less transitory. They may in all cases be often prevented by pressure and tight bandages. Even should spasms arise in the intestines compression will have a tendency to remove them. Friction with the warm hand, or heated cloths and spirituous or volatile em- brocations are necessary. The person affiicted should wear flannel stockings in bed, and have at his feet a bottle of hot water. This com- plaint may sometimes be relieved by putting the opposite muscles into action. If, for in- stance, the muscles of the calf of the leg are affected, those of the front may be excited by dravnng up the foot. See Convulsions. CRANBERRIES. Gather them in diy weather, and put them into bottles with hard water. Cork them closely, and set them in a dry place. CRANBERRIES:, To Bottle. Pick them quite clean, and put them in clean bottles ; fill the bottles with cold spring water that has been previously boiled ; cement the corks, and keep them in a cool place. American cranberries and clusterberries are kept in the same way. When to be used for tarts stew them a little with a few spoonsful of water that they have been kept in and sugar. CRANBERRIES AND RICE JELLY. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken it to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to youi- taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat with milk and cream. CRANBERRYING. For pies and puddings with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a jar with the same. This way they will eat well with bread, and are very wholesome. This done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. CRANBERRY JELLY. Make a very strong isinglass jelly; when cold mix it with double the quantity of cranberry juice, which must be pressed and strained from the fruit after having been stewed in a jar with a little sugar; sweeten with fine loaf sugar; boil it up, and then strain it into a mould. CRANBERRY TART. This tai't is made like all other fruit tarts. The best cranberries should be used, and well washed. A ^ lb. of sugar is the proper quantity for a quart of cran- berries. To this must be added the juice of half a lemon. Serve it cold. CRANE: To Carve. When the legs are luifolded the wings must be cut off, then taken up, and sauced with powdered ginger, vinegar, salt, and mustard. This is called, in the old phraseology, " displaying a crane." CRAPE is a light transparent fabric composed of silk, from which, by the mode of its prepara- tion, all the gloss has been taken, and which, when dyed, as it usually is, of a black colour, is worn as the sign of mourning for the dead. The weaving of crape is conducted according to the simplest method of the weaver's art, all its peculiarity being given to it in the dressing which it receives after it is taken from the loom. The silk is used without its having been washed or dyed, and consequently with all the natural viscid gum which forms a part of its composition as spun by the worm. For thin crape the only preparation which the filaments undergo previous to the weaving is the simple twisting which forms the first process of the throwing mill, and in which state the thread is technically called singles. When it is intended to make a more substantial fabric the warp is made of two and sometimes three filaments twisted together, which in that state are called tram: the weft is still composed of singles. After the web is taken from the loom it is dressed with a viscid solution of gum, which in drying causes the individual threads to resume, as far as the in- terlacing will admit, the form they originally held previous to their being twisted in the throwing mill, and thus is produced the peculiar wrinkled appearance by which crape is distin- guished. This fact will be shown if a piece of crape is washed in water hot enough to discharge[ 867 ] C RA CRA the gum, when the web will resemble thin gauze. CRAPE SCARFS, CHINA: To Wash. If the febric be good these articles of dress can be washed as frequently as may be required, and no diminution of their beauty will be dis- coverable, even when the various shades of green have been employed among other colours in the patterns. The method of cleaning them is as follows :—Make a strong lather of boiling water, and suffer it to cool; when cold, or nearly so, wash the scarf quickly and thoroughly; dip it immediately into cold hai'd water, in which a little salt has been thrown, to preserve the colours ; rinse, squeeze, and hang it out to dry in the open air; pin it at its extreme edge to the line, so that it may not in any part be folded together; the more rapidly it dries the clearer it will be. CRAYFISH BISQUE. Take about fifty or sixty crayfish; stew them in a little water, with carrots, onions, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, salt, and pepper, for about an hour; then drain, and take them out of their shells, and, having laid aside thirty of the tails whole, pound the remainder of the meat, with the breasts of two roasted fowls, the crumbs of two French rolls pre- viously soaked in rich broth, and the yolks of three hard eggs. Boil the shells in a little broth, and with the liquor dilute the pounded meat, and rub the whole through a silk sieve; boil 1^ pint of cream, keep it stirring, and pour on the soup ; season it, and add the coral of a lobster, pounded and mixed with a little broth ; set the whole on the fire, but do not let it boil. When quite done pour it into a tureen on some previously soaked bread, putting the tails which were reserved on the soup, and serve it hot. CRAYFISH, BROILED. The fish being boiled, take them out of the shells, and soak them for a quarter of an hour in white wine, with pepper, salt, and shred parsley ; soak also in the same way an equal number of fish roes; tie these alternately on skewers, dip them in egg, bread them lightly, and broil them of a nice colour. CRAYFISH BUTTER. Boil your cray- fish in water, with vinegar, parsley, salt, and pepper; take the meat from the shells, dry and pound it well with butter, set the whole on a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, pass it through a sieve into a basin of cold water, and let it congeal. The shells must likewise be pounded and mixed with the rest. If they do not make it sufficiently red add a little alkanet root. CRAYFISH CHEESE. Having washed and boiled the fish as usual, take off the small claws and tails, and set them aside; chop up the meat that remains in the shells of some other fish, with artichoke bottoms, sweet herbs, and butter; mix them well, and put it in a dish in the form of a large cheese, round which lay the tails; cover it with bread crumbs, and colour it in the oven for fifteen minutes. CRAYFISH A LA COLONNE. Take the number of crayfish you may want as fresh as possible ; split each in half, and put them into a stewpan, with white wine, a little oil, a sliced lemon, salt, and pepper. Let them stew in this till done ; then dish them; add to the liquor some blond, reduce and strain it, and pour it over your crayfish. CRAYFISH CREAM. Boil a pint of cream and some fine sugar; reduce it to about half; pound the carcasses of eight or ten crayfish ; put them to this cream, with a fowl's gizzard, and boil for about a quarter of an hour; then strain it several times, and bake it between two slow fires. CRAYFISH, CULLIS OF. Wash and boil about thirty crayfish in plain water; then take off the shells, and pound them well with the meat of the fish and a dozen almonds. Cut Hlb. of fillet of veal and some ham into slices, and put them into a saucepan, with an onion, carrots, and parsnips. Do them until they are about the consistence of veal gravy; then add a little flour and melted bacon; put them on again, and keep stirring them ; moisten the whole with good stock, and add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, scallions, champignons, truffles, and crusts of bread; simmer it, take out the veal, put to it the pounded crayfish, and then strain. CRAYFISH, CULLIS OF (au Geas). Take about thirty crayfish of a moderate size, and, after washing them several times, boil them in water; then pick them, and put the shells aside ; pound them, and twelve sweet almonds, and the crayfish well in a mortar; then take a fillet of veal and a piece of ham, cut them into slices, and add an onion and some slices of carrots and parsnips. When the whole has taken colour add some melted butter and a little flour; let it simmer, stirring it well; then moisten the whole with some good stock or broth; add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, young onions, mushrooms, truflles, and crusts of bread, and let it simmer; then take out the veal, dilute the contents of the mortar with the juice, and strain the whole through a sieve. CRAYFISH, POTTED. Having boiled the fish in salt and water and picked out all. the meat, sprinkle them with spice, pepper, and salt, and then pound them to a fine paste, adding a little butter; put it into pots, and cover them with clarified butter. CRAYFISH A LA PROVENgALE. Boil your fish in equal quantities of wine and water,C H A [ 363 ] CEE witli 3alt, lemon, and sweet hciLs; sliell them, remove the small claws, and simmer them lor half an hour in whatevei- sauce you please. Sei-ve them with the sauce poured over and around them. CRAYFISH, ROASTED. Put the fish to soak in hot wine, but do not boil them. When well drained stuff' them with sweet herbs, butter, salt, pepper, and basil; fasten them with skewers on a spit, and roast them before a gentle fire; baste them with their own dripping or boiling wino. CRAYFISH, SALAD OF. Boil crayfish as usual, take them from the shells, put them into a salad bowl, with anchovies and artichoke bottoms, and season like other salads. CRAYFISH SOUP. Put some eels, flounders, &c., into cold water; set them on the fire, and when near boiling skim, and add to them onions, carrots, parsley, and whole pepper. Take about fifty crayfish, and, having taken them from their shells, put them into the fish broth, with the small claws and tails finely pounded ; let them boil for an hour, then strain them off; add some crusts of bread and the spawn of a lobster pounded. CREAKING OF BOOTS AND SHOES. See Boots. CREAM : To Keep. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded with- out sugar, and, by adding to it as much pow- dered lump sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good for two days, keeping it in a cool place. CREAM, ALMOND. See Almond Cream. CREAM, ALMOND, DROPS. Prepare ilb. of almonds ; put them into a quart of sweetened cream, and boil; add nine eggs and flour; beat very smooth with orange or rose water (a drop or two of essence will answer, or a musk plum); sift flour upon paper, and drop them like ahnond biscuits; sift sugar over, and bake them in a quickish oven. Take care they do not run together. They may be made of dif- ferent flavours and colours. CREAM 1 L'ANGLAISE. Take the yolks of 2 eggs, Jib. of powder sugar, 2 ozs. of candied orange or lemon-peel, and 5 ozs of blanched pis- tachio nuts ; beat them all up in a mortar ; add to it a pint of good milk, and boil it over a gentle fire, stirrmg it frequently to prevent burning. When done add five or six drops of orange-flower water; pour the whole on a dish, and set it over the fire till the edges are brown; sprinkle sugar over and salamander it. CREAM, APPLE. Peel and core five large apples; boil them in a little water till soft enough to press through a sieve ; sweeten, and beat with them the whisked whites of five eggs. Serve with cream poured round it. CREAM. APPLE, TART. Pulp and season the apples with sugar, cinnamon, or cloves, and a glass of wine; mix a sufficient quantity of Naples biscuits in cream, yolks of eggs, and orange-flower water ; mix all well together, and put it into a sheeted dish with a border; cross bar and glaze it. CREAM AU BAIN-MARIE. Mix up what- ever ingredients of which the cream is to be made with eggs and sugar (for the proportions see the respective articles); strain them through a fine sieve, and pour the preparation into a mould lightly buttered withinside. Put this mould into a large saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boiling water to reach within an inch of the mould ; place the saucepan on hot ashes, cover it, and put hot coals on the lid. Renew the fire underneath occasionally, so as to keep the water at the same temperature, that is, nearly, but never quite, boiling, for an hour and a half; then, if the cream is properly set, which may be known by touching it with your finger, and obsei'ving whether it may be easily detached from the mould, take it from the bain- marie and let it stand; when no more than lukewarm turn it out on your dish. It sometimes unavoidably happens that bubbles rise on the surface of the cream. In such a case boil I glass of cream, and add to it by degrees the yolks of 3 eggs; stir it con- stantly with a wooden spoon ; mix 3 ozs. of fine sugar with it, and continue stirring it over the fire till of a proper consistence, and on the point of boiling; then take it off and strain it. When the cream is ready for table cover it completely with the last made cream, which will hide its defects. cream' biscuits. Put the yolks of 3 eggs into a pan with J lb. of powder sugar, on which has been rasped the zest of a small cedrat; beat them up about ten minutes, then whip the whites, and mix them gradually with the yolks, 1 j oz. of dry sifted flour, and 4 spoonsful of whipped cream. When these in- gredients are well mixed and smooth pour the paste into about a dozen small cases, and glaze the tops of them with sifted sugar; when that is melted put the biscuits into a gentle oven, and bake them for twenty or five-and-twenty minutes. CREAM, BOHEMIAN JELLY. This may be made of any flavour as jellies, and either ripe or preserved fruits, or with marmalade or jam, to which add the juice of 2 lemons, 1 pint of water, l^oz. of gelatine, or 1 pint of calves' foot plain jelly; stir together in a bowl on ice ; when nearly cold stir in very quickly two-thirds of a pint of whipped cream; fill the mould, put on ice, and serve. CREAM, BURNT. Set on the fire in aCRE ORE [ 369 ] stewpan two table-spoonsful of clarified sugar; leave it on till it begins to burn and get brown; then shake it about, and put it on 1 oz. of ratafia biscuits, a small piece of lemon-peel, sugar, and orange flower; stir it together; theii put in a pint of new milk boiled. When it has simmered by the side of the stove for twenty minutes beat up four eggs and the yolks of two in a stewpan ; take the milk from the fire, and mix with it half a pint of good thick cream, then the eggs, which rub through a tammy, and repeat it a second time ; rub some small moulds with clarified butter, and fill them with cream ; have a large stewpan on the fire with a very little water at the bottom; when it boils gently put in your cream, and cover it closely, with fire laid upon the cover. If you think proper it may be put into one large mould. When done take them out of the water, wipe them, and turn them on a dish. CREAM CAKE (I). Put 1 lb. of flour upon a pie board, make a hole in the middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream and a little salt; mix the paste lightly; let it stand for an hour, and then add ^ lb. of butter ; roll it out five times the same as puff paste, and form it into small cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and bake in an oven. CREx\M CAKE (2). Put into a stewpan 2 glasses of cream, ^ lb. of butter, the rind of a lemon cut small, J lb. of powder sugar, and a pinch of salt; set it on the fire ; when it begins to boil put it by the side of a stove ; take out the lemon-peel, and add by degrees as much flour as the liquid will bear; keep stirring it constantly, and place it on the fire again for five minutes; then pour it into a basin ; add to it one by one as many eggs as will make the paste stick to the fingers; put the paste on a slab, and make your cakes of a round form. CREAM AU CARAMEL. Put 1 pint of milk and J pint of cream, with a bit of cinna- mon, some coriander seeds, and the peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour; then take it off the fire, and boil J lb. of sugar with half a glass of water until it becomes of a nice dark colour. Take it off the fire, mix it with the cream, and put it on the fire again until the sugar and cream are well mixed together; then place a saucepan with some hot water in it over hot ashes ; take a dish in which you intend seiwing, and pour into it your cream; then place it in the saucepan; put on the lid of the saucepan, with fire above, and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve hot. CREAM AU CARAMEL ANISE. Infuse 1 drachm of green and the same of starred anise in 5 glasses of boiling milk; keep it covered, and in the meanwhile boil 6 ozs. of sugar to caramel, which must then be dissolved in 1 glass of boiling water. When the infusion is nearly cold pour it on the sugar, and mix both with the yolks of 10 eggs and one whole one, Jib. of sugar, and a grain of salt; stir it well, and then proceed in the usual way. See Ckeam AU Bain-marie. CREAM AU CARAMEL AU BAIN- MARIE. Boil ^ lb. of sugar to caramel; pour a quarter of it into the bottom of a mould which has been buttered, and which must be placed on hot ashes, to allow the sugar to extend over the bottom of the mould; dissolve the remainder of the caramel sugar with a glass of boiling water. When dissolved mix it with 5 glasses of boiling milk, and afterwards with the yolks of 11 eggs and the white of 1 egg, J lb. of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix them together by degrees. Finish your preparation according to the direc- tions for Cream au Bain-marie. CREAM A LA CARDINALE. Pound the shells of thirty boiled crayfish; put them into some butter; mix them well together till the whole is of a fine red colour; then pour on it a pint of boiling cream or milk, with a iiitle sugar in it; boil them together for a quarter of an hour; pass it three times through a sieve ; put to it the gizzards of two chickens, and boil it for five minutes to set it. CREAM AU CHAPELET. Boil a pint of cream, reduce it to half with lemon-peel, cinnamon, coriander seed, sugar, and the skin of a fowl's gizzard chopped ; strain it; prepare a border for the dish with some pounded chocolate and a spoonful of gum dragon melted thickly and sifted through a cloth; put fine sugar to it until it becomes a hard paste; roll bits of it into balls; put them to dry, and garnish the dish round with them. The cream must be finished to your own taste. The balls are joined together with cararaeled sugar in crosses, or any other form, and made to stand up round the cream. CREAM CHEESE. Hang the quantity of cream to be made in a wet cloth in a cool place for six or seven days, which will depend upon the weather and the state of the cream. Put it into a vat lined with a cloth ; put on the press with a light weight; turn it twice a day, and it will be fit for use in a short time. CREAM, CHOCOLATE. Take 1 pint of milk, 1 gill of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, and 5 ozs. of powder sugar. Mix these ingredients to- gether, set them on the fire, stir them constantly, and let them boil till reduced to a quarter; then add 2 ozs. of grated chocolate, and, having boiled it a little longer, strain, and let it cool. Serve it cold. CREAM, CITRON. Take a quart of cream, and boil it with three pennyworth of good clear a BL 370 J CRE CRE isinglass, which must be tied up in a piece of thin tiffany; put in a blade or two of mace, strongly boiled in your cream and isinglass till the cream is pretty thick ; sweeten it to your taste. When it is taken off the fire put in a little rose water ; then take a piece of your green freshest citron, cut it in thin slices, and the cream being first put into dishes, when it is half cold put in your citi'on, so as it may but sink from the top, that it may not be seen, and may lie before it be at the bottom. If you wash your citron before in rose water it will make the colour better and fresher; so let it stand till the next day where it may get no water, and where it may not be shaken. CREAM, CLOTTED (1). Take four quarts of new milk from the cow, put it in a broad earthen pan, and let it stand till the next day; then put it over a very slow fire for half an hour ; make it nearly hot to cream, then put it away till it is cold, take the cream off, and beat it smoothly with a spoon. CREAM, CLOTTED (2). String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to a gill of new milk and six spoonsful of rose water; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor, strained, into the yolks of two eggs well beaten; stir the whole into a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish to eat with fruit. Some persons prefer it without any flavour but that of cream, in which case use a quart of new milk and cream, or do it like the Devonshire cream. When done enough a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring, and when that is seen remove the pan from the fire. CREAM, CODLIN. See Codlin Cream. CREAM, COLD. See Cold Cream. CREAM, CORSTORPHEN. Take a small deep vessel, with a cover to shut closely; put in a quart or two of new milk in the evening; add the same quantity in the morning, and stir and mix them all well together. Next evening put in another quart, and mix again. The follow- ing morning, or sooner, it will appear like very thick lappered milk ; beat it up, as it should not whey, and serve it with sugar. These milks were strongly recommended by an eminent Scotch physician for children's dinner in summer. - We never saw a family of finer-looking nor healthier children than one that dined three times a week on croudy, which was made of fine oatmeal and buttermilk, poui'ed from the churn over it, and stirred well together. These preparations of milk resemble much the famous . dishes of the east, so much es- teemed in the cure of consumption ; and these would be not less so if prepared from mares' or asses' milk fed upon natural herbs. The kou- miss and yahourt are only different preparations brought about by fermentation. CREAM, CRACKLING (1). Beat up the yolks of as many eggs as will be sufficient for the quantity of cream you wish to make, pour- ing in milk as you beat them ; then put in some rasped sugar and lemon-peel, set the dish upon a furnace, and keep continually stirring till the cream begins to be made; slacken your fire; stir the cream without intermission, turning it to the sides of the dish till veiy little or none remains at the bottom, and a border may be made round them, taking great care that it is not burnt. When it is ready heat the fire shovel very hot, give it a fine colour, and with the point of a knife loosen the whole border, that it may remain entire; then let it be put again into the same dish and dried in the oven, that veiy little may be left in the dish, and it will crackle in the mouth. CREAM, CRACKLING (2). Take 1 pint of cream, ^ pint of milk, the peel of a lemon grated, orange-flower water, and 4 pounded macaroons; boil them until reduced to half, and then add 2 ozs. of powder sugar. Put into another saucepan the yolks of 8 eggs, on which pour the cream a little at a time ; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly until the cream is set; then spread it on a baking tin, keeping it about the thickness of a crown piece ; place the tin on a trivet over the fire, and pass a salamander over the surface of the cream to dry it. When that is done cut your cream into pieces of whatever form you may think proper, lay them on a dish, and put them in a hot oven till they are crisp. Serve either hot or cold. CREAM, CURD. Take a pint of cream, and boil it with a little mace, cinnamon, and rose water to make it sweet. When it is as cold as new milk put in about half a spoonful of good rennet, and when it curds serve it in a cream dish. CREAM, CUSTARD. Grate extremely fine the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a quart of cream, with ilb. of fresh butter and the yolks of 12 eggs; put it to as much sugar as you please; then let it thicken over the fire; make the custards shallow, and when they have stood half an hour in a slow oven grate some loaf sugar over them and serve. CREAM, DEVONSHIRE. If in the winter the milk should stand for twenty-four hours, but if in the summer it should only stand for twelve; then the milk pan should be placed upon a hot hearth, provided you have one; it not it should be placed in a wide brass kettle of water large enough to receive the pan. It must[ 371 ] ORE remain on the fire till quite hot, hut on no account boil, or there will be a scum instead of cream upon the milk. You will know when it is done enough by the undulations on the surface looking very thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire—the slower the better; remove the pan into the dairy, and skim it the next day. la cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. CREAM, DUTCH. Take 1 pint of new milk, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, 2 drachms of vanilla, and 5 ozs. of loaf sugar; separate the vanilla, and cut it small; dilute well the yolks of eggs in the milk; mix all together, and, putting it on a gentle fire, stir well with a slice, and when it sticks to it the cream is complete. When cold serve it up. CREAM, EXCELLENT. Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of lemon juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant to the taste; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and the next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with veiy light puff paste biscuits made in tin shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which should be strewed sugar or a little glaze with isinglass. The edges of the dish may be lined with macaroons. CREAM OF FLOWERS. Take roses, violets, jasmines, pinks, and orange flowers ; pound them, adding a little warm milk; press them in a clean cloth, and mix them with a pint of well-boiled cream; add the yolks of six eggs and sugar; strain, and put it into a dish on hot ashes; cover, lay more coals on the top, and let it stand till thick, when it should be set out to cool. CREAM, FRENCH (au Marasquin). Boil 4 glasses of milk, and then mix it by degi'ees with the yolks of 8 eggs, 10 ozs. of sugar, and a grain of salt; put these ingredients into a saucepan over a moderate fire, stirring con- stantly ; when it begins to simmer strain it; add 6 drachms of isinglass to it. As soon as it is cold put in half a glass of good maraschino, and complete the operation according to direction {see Chocolate Cream, French). You may vary this recipe by putting in half a glass of arrack or rum instead of the maraschino. CREAM, FRIED. Mix gradually into a stewpan about three spoonsful of flour, with si.v eggs (both the whites and yolks), a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange flowers shred finely, a pint of milk, a small lump of sugar, and a few grains of salt; boil the whole over a slow fire for half an hour, keeping con- stantly stirring. When the cream is very thick spread it about the thickness of half an inch upon a floured dish, and shake some flour over it. When cold you may cut it into any form you please, and i'ly in a very hot pan; glaze with sugar and a salamander. CREAM, FRIED (Parisian). Mate your cream, with the addition of six eggs, exactly the same as Cream au Bain-marie. When quite cold cut it into pieces of whatever forms you choose, either round, square, oval, &c.; but do not make them above two inches long, or three quarters of an inch thick. Make a batter as follows:—Put f lb. of sifted flour into a pan; pour on it a little water, in which 2 ozs. of butter have been melted; hold the saucepan slanting, and blow the water aside, so as to pour the butter in first; then add a sufficient quantity of water to make your batter of a proper con- sistence ; when it will flow and quit the spoon readily put in a pinch of salt and the whites of two eggs whipped firmly. Make your frying- pan quite hot, dip your cream into the batter, and fry it of a good colour; drain the pieces, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and glaze them with the salamander. CREAM FRITTERS. Mix a handful of flour with three whole eggs and the yolks of six, four pounded macaroons, some dried orange flowers browned in sugar, a little candied lemon- peel chopped very fine, ^ pint of cream, ^ pint of milk, and a lump of sugar; boil the whole over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream turns to a thick paste; then let it cool in a dish well floured, shaking flour all over it. When cold cut the paste into small pieces, roll them in your hands till they become round, and fry them of a good colour; when you serve them powder them all over with sugar. CREAM FROTH. Put 1 pint of fresh double cream into a stone pan, with ^ lb. of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, a little crisped orange flower, and 3 drops of cedrat essence. When the sugar is dissolved place the pan in another, in which are 3 lbs. of ice beaten up with saltpetre ; whip the cream in the usual manner, taking off the cream as it rises with a skimmer; lay it gently on a sieve over a pan ; if the cream does not form properly add the whites of two eggs. This cream is usually served in large silver or gilt goblets, and should be prepared two or three hours before it is wanted. CREAM FOR FRUIT PIES OR TARTS. Boil a bit of lemon or Seville orange-peel, a little cinnamon, 2 laurel leaves, 12 coriander seeds, two or three cloves, 1 blade of mace, and 1 pint of new milk ; then put into another stewpan the yolks of 3 eggs beaten up with a little milk, and i spoonful of flour; strain, and stir the hot milk in; set it over the , fire, begin whisking ICRE CRE [ 372 -J it to the consistence of cream, and take it off again. As it cools stir in a table-spoonful of rose or orange-flower water, or a little syrup of clove gillyflowers, and a few drops of essence of ambergris. This cream is particularly agreeable with fruit pies or tarts. It may also be made in a plain manner with lemon-peel, cinnamon, and laurel leaves only, boiled in milk, and a single egg beat up with a spoonful of rice flour. Fruit pies with cream should always be covered like tarts with puff paste, and when served up have their tops cut round and taken off, for the purpose of depositing the cream on the fruit, after which the cover may be replaced either whole or in quarters. CREAM, GERMAN. Boil a pint of Rhenish wine, some sugar, and cinnamon for half an hour; then add to it the yolks of eight eggs well beaten and strained; mix it well, and cook it in the bain-marie. CREAM, GLAZED. Put a small handful of flour into a stewpan, with some lemon-peel chopped very small, some orange flowers dried and pounded, and a lump of sugar; then beat up the yolks of 8 eggs with 1 pint of cream and ^ pint of milk, keeping the whites by themselves ; mix the yolks well together in the stewpan with the flour and other ingredients, and let it boil gently for half an hour. When the cream has thickened take it off the fire, and ■\vhip the whites of the eggs till they are well frothed; then add them to the cream; put the dish into an oven of a moderate heat, and when the cream rises well and is glazed, serve. To make it rise the dish should be covered with the lid of a saucepan, upon which fire should be placed. CREAM, GOOSEBERRY. Boil a quart of gooseberries with just as much water as will cover them; stir in ^ oz. of fresh butter ; when soft pulp them through a sieve; sweeten the pulp while hot with good sugar; then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs; serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. Good cream may be used instead of yolks of eggs. CREAM, HASTY. Take a gallon of milk warm from the cow, place it on the tire, and when it begins to rise take it off the fire and set it by; skim off all the cream, and put it into a plate; then set the skillet over the fire again, and i-epeat the skimming till your plate is full of cream; put to it some orange flower and sugar, and so serve it. CREAM, IMPERIAL. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, and then stir it till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in the juice of three lemons strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which pour into the dish from a large teapot, holding it high and moving it about to mix it with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it is served, and will be still better if kept a day. CREAM, ITALIAN. Put a gill of good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little orange-flower water into a pan; whip them up together, and when the cream is sufficiently thick put it into a deep dish, with plenty of powder sugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and lay hot ashes on the top, which must be renewed until the cream is done enough ; then let it cool and serve it. CREAM, LEMON. Take five large lemons, and pare them as thin as possible; steep them over-night in a cupful of water with the juice; the next day strain it, and add six well-beaten eggs and ] 0 ozs. of sugar; put it over a slow fire, and stir it constantly one way; skim it, and when rather warm put it into glasses. CREAM, LEMON (Frothed). Sweeten a pint of cream with loaf sugar, put in the rind of a lemon, set it over the fire, and just let it boil; strain the juice of a large lemon into a deep china or glass dish; when the cream is nearly cold put it into a teapot, and pour it upon the juice, holding the teapot as high as possible; let it remain in the same dish. CREAM, LIGHT. Take a pint and a halt of milk, some sugar, lemon-peel, and orange- flower water; boil the whole together till re- duced to half the quantity; then take it off the fire, and let it cool. In the meantime beat up a spoonful of flour with the yolks of six eggs, keeping the whites separately, and gradually mix the yolks with the cream; strain the cream through a sieve, and put the vessel which con- tains it in some boiling water over the fire. When the cream is set take the vessel out ot the hot water; beat up the whites of your eggs to a froth; add to them some powder sugar, and cover the cream with the whites of eggs in the form of a dome; then bake it under a lid tho.t will admit fire at the top ; let the heat be moderate, and serve your cream of a fine colour CREAM LOAF. Take the crumb out of a good large roll rasped, and soak the crust e little while in milk, sugar, and lemon; then drain, fill it up with frangipane cream, and stop it up with pieces of bread; put a little into the bottom of the dish in which you serve, roll it up, put cream all over, with powder sugar; bake it in a pretty hot oven to give it a fine brown colour. CREAM A LA MADELAINE. Beat up four eggs, whites and yolks together, with a pinch of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, a small piece of pounded cinnamon, some bitter-almond biscuits pounded, half a spoonful of orange- flower water, a pint of cream, 2 ozs. of sugar, and a little salt; place a dish over some hotCRE CRE [ 373 ] ashes; then pour in the ingredients well mixed together, and as soon as the cream thickens glaze it and serve. ■: CREAM, MAIDEN. Take the whites of ten eggs, and whip them to a froth; put them into a saucepan, with milk, orange-flower water, and sugar ; set a plate over a stove ; put in a little cinnamon; beat up your cream well, and pour it into the plate; then brown it with a red- hot shovel and serve. ; CREAM PANCAKES. Put the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with 2 ozs. of sugar, a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg; mix the whole well together, and then fry them very carefully. , CREAM PATISSifiRE. Put a pint of cream and the same of milk on the fire, stirring constantly till it boils ; then add 2 ozs. of sugar, a little salt, and the rind of a lemon ; when the cream is sufficiently flavoured with the peel beat up the yolks of eight eggs; mix them ■with the cream, and continue to stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon. As soon as it is very thick pour it into a sieve, press it through with a spoon, and then set it by for use ; more eggs must be added if not thick enough for your purpose. CREAM PATISSlfiRE AND CHOCO- LATE CUSTARD. Throw f lb. of chocolate and a clove of vanilla into twelve glasses of milk; cover it, and in a quarter of an hour pass the milk through a napkin; put a few spoonsful of the infusion to the chocolate which remains in the napkin, and pour it into a small pan; then put fib. of flour into a large eaucepan, with four whole eggs and the yolks of twelve ; pour the infusion in by degrees, with a very little salt; set it on a moderate fire, and stir it constantly. As soon as it begins to thicken take it from the fire to prevent its be- coming lumpy; add to it i lb. of powder sugar, 6 ozs. of butter, and dry it for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. When it is a little cooled put in the chocolate and 6 ozs. of sweet macaroons crushed. This preparation will be of the consistence of cream patissiere; if not, add a few spoonsful of whipped cream ; whip the twelve whites of eggs pretty fine, and mix them with the preparation ; then pour it into a raised crust, and finish as usual. CREAM, PISTACHIO. Take ^Ib. of pistachio nuts, throw them into scalding water, and peel off the skin ; put the nuts (not more than two at a time) into a marble mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding frequently as you proceed a few drops of rose water. Sweeten a quart of cream with ^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar, and stir into it gradually the pis- tachio paste ; set the mixture over the fire, and Set it just come to a boil; then take it out, stir in two spoonsful of rose water or peach water, and set it on ice to cool. Either serve it up liquid in a glass bowl, or put it into a freezer, and freeze it as ice cream. If you freeze it you must substitute for rose water or peach water a table-spoonful of extract of roses, or the same quantity of extract of bitter almonds. The process of freezing diminishes the strength ot every sort of flavouring, and of sweetening also. If you serve it up as frozen stick it all over with slips of pistachio nut peeled and sllCGcl CREAM, POMPADOUR. Take the whites of five eggs, and after beating them into a strong froth put them into a tossing pan, with 2 ozs. of sugar and two spoonsful of orange-flower water; stir it gently three minutes, pour it into a dish, and melted butter over it. Serve it hot. C REAM POSSET. Take twelve eggs, leaving out two or three whites; take out all the treads, and beat them well into the basin you make the posset in; add J lb. of sugar, a pint of sack, and a nutmeg grated ; stir it on a chafing dish of coals till it is more than blood warm ; take a quart of sweet cream, and when it boils pour it into a basin ; cover it with a warm plate and a cloth ; then set it on a chafing dish of embers till it is as thick as you wish, and strew on some fine cinnamon. CREAM OF PRESERVED FRUIT. Take i lb. of the pulp of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, with the whites of two or three eggs, and beat together well for an hour ; take it off with a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish or glass salver with other creams, or put it in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will not do this way. CREAM, QUINCE. Take quinces when quite ripe, pare and cut them in quarters, scald them till they are soft, and pulp them through a hair sieve ; mix an equal weight of quince, finely powdered sugar, and the wjites of eggs beaten till as white as gnow. It is then ready to serve. CREAM, RASPBERRY. Mash the fruit gently, and let it drain through a sieve, sprinkling a little sugar on the fruit, which will produce more juice; put the juice to some cream, sweeten it, and then a little milk may be added, but the cream must be put in first, or the milk will curdle. It may be made from jam or jelly when fresh fruit cannot he obtained. If made with jam put 6 ozs. to a pint of cream, pulp it through a sieve, add the juice of a lemon, and whisk it in a shallow dish ; lay the froth on a sieve, adding a little more lemon juice. When no more froth will rise put the cream in a dish or glasses, and heap on the froth. Stbawbeebx Cream may be made in the same way.[ 374 ] CRE CEE CREAM, RHENISH. Put over the fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cinnamon, and ^Ib. of sugar. While this is boiling take seven yolks and whites of eggs; beat them well together with a whisk and a little wine ; pour it gradually into the boiling wine; strike it fast with the whisk till it comes to such a thickness that you may lift it on the point of a knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add to it the juice of a lemon and orange-flower water; pour it into your dish; garnish it with citron, sugar, and biscuit, and serve. CREAM, RHUBARB. Peel and Tvash a quantity of rhubarb; put it into a pan, with a little water, lemon-peel, a bit of cinnamon, and as much moist sugar as will sweeten it; set it on a moderate fire, and reduce it to a marmalade; pass it through a hair sieve, and when cold mix ■with it a pint of cream or two eggs beaten up with a pint of milk. CREAM, SAGE. Take two quarts of cream, and boil it well; then put in half a pint of the juice of red sage, a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and 1 lb. of sugar. CREAM SAUCE. Boil half a pint of cream, thicken it a very little, and put in a lump of butter; sweeten it to your taste, and after it gets cold add a glass of white wine. This is good to eat with boiled rice, plain pudding, or apple dumplings. CREAM SHERBET. Put the yolks of six eggs and a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water, or crisped orange flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; then pass it through a sieve; add to it I lb. of powder sugar, and as soon as it is perfectly dissolved pour the whole into a sarbotiere, which place in an ice pail, and pro- ceed to cool as directed for Sherbet. CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of cream with the whites of six eggs; sweeten it with sugar and rose water, and strain it; then beat up the cream with a bundle of reeds tied together or with a whisk, and as the snow rises take it up with a spoon in the cullender, that the liquid part may run out. When you have taken off as much of the snow as you please boil the rest of the cr.eam with a stick of cinnamon, some cloves, and a, little bruised ginger; boil it till it is thick, strain it, and when it is cold put it into a dish, and lay your snow upon it. CREAM, SPANISH. Take 3 spoonsful of rice flour sifted very finely, the yolks of 3 eggs, 3 spoonsful of fresh water, and 3 spoonsful of orange-flower water; mix them well together; then put to it 1 pint of cream, set it on a good fire, keep it stirring till it is of a proper thickness, and then pour it into cups. CREAM SWEETMEAT. Take some good cream, and slice some preserved peaches, apricots, or plums into it; sweeten the cream with fine sugar, or with the syrup the fruit was preserved in; mix all well together, and put it into your basin. CREAM, SYRUP OF. This maybe preserved the same as cream [see Cbeam, to Keep), in the proportion of IJlb. of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place for two or three hours ; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it closely. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful in voyages. CREAM, TAFFETY. Beat the whites of eight eggs with rose water to a froth; put it into a quart of thick cream, skimming it as it rises; boil it, and keep it continually stirring; then, having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs, take your cream off the fire, slip in the eggs, and stir them in. Sweeten with sugar. CREAM TART. Put into a tea-ciip a large table-spoonful of arrowroot flour; pour on it a very little cold milk, and mix it very smooth with a spoon, seeing that it is entirely free from lumps. Boil in a saucepan a quart of cream or rich unskimmed milk, with the yellow rind of a large lemon or orange pared thin, or cut into slips; or use for flavouring a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels blanched and broken up, or, what is still better, a vanilla bean. The milk must boil slowly, keeping it closely covered, till it is highly flavoured; then strain out the flavouring, and set away the milk to cool. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till veiy thick and smooth, and stir them gradually into the milk alternately with four heaped table-spoonsful of powdered loaf sugar ; add some grated nutmeg; put tlie whole into a saucepan, place it on hot coals, or on the stove, and continue to stir it till it begins to boil; then remove it immediately, lest it should curdle, and keep stirring it till it begins to cool; afterwards set it in a cold place. Sift into a pan Hlb. of flour ; mix in i lb. of white sugar ; cut up in it Jib. of fresh butter, and rub it well into the flour and sugar. Beat S eggs very light, and with them wet the flour, &c., to a dough, adding a very small level tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a little cold water; mix the paste well till it becomes a lump of dough ; then beat it on all sides with the rolling-pin, transfer it to the pasteboard, and roll it out thin ; divide it equally into square pieces; put thickly on each piece a por- tion of cream or custard mixture, and fold over it the four corners of the paste so as they approach each other in the centre; dredge each tart with powdered loaf sugar, set them into the oven, and let them bake of a hght brown. They are best when fresh, but notORE CUE [ 375 ] wai'in, and will be found delicious. The custard may be coloured green by boiling pistachio nuts in the milk with the flavouring. CREAM OF 'TARTAR is now called by chemists hitartrate of potash, being a compound of tartaric acid and potash. It is a concrete saline matter, which separates from wines after they have undergone complete fermentation. It adheres to the top and sides of the casks in red or whitish grey crystals, according to the colour of the liquor. In this state it is called crude tartar, having a sub-acid taste, and being with difficulty soluble in water. By repeated solution, filtration, and crystallisa- tion, crude tartar may be purified, when it is called crystals of tartar, and, if these be reduced to powder, cream of tartar. This salt is a mild, cooling, and aperient medicine. If half or a whole ounce of it be taken in substance with treacle or any other vehicle it proves an effectual purgative. Farther, when dissolved in water it aff'ords, with the addition of sugar, an agreeable acidulated drink, which is of great service in ardent fevers, and likewise forms a pleasant beverage during the summer. CREAM TOAST. Take 1 lb. of French rolls, slice them, crumb and crust, as thick as your finger, and lay thera in a silver dish ; put to them 1 pint of cream and ^ pint of milk; then strew sugar and beaten cinnamon over them; turn them often till they are soaked tender, though not so tender but you may turn them without breaking; then take them from the cream with a slice or skimmer, break three or four raw eggs, turn the slices of bread on the eggs, and fry them in clarified butter till they are of a good brown colour, taking great care not to burn or black them ; scrape a little sugar round them, drain them well from the butter in which they were fried, and serve them hot for a second course. CREAM, VANILLA. Boil a vanilla bean in \ pint of I'ich milk till the milk is highly flavoured with the vanilla ; then, having taken out the bean, strain the milk into a pint of thick cream; beat the yolks of five eggs till very light, and then mix gradually with the beaten egg J lb. of powdered loaf sugar, beating it very hard; set the cream over hot coals, and add to it by degrees the egg and sugar; stir it con- tinually till it is on the point of coming to a boil. It must be very thick and smooth. Cover the bottom and sides of a glass bowl or dish with J lb. of lady cake cut into nice even slices ; pour on the mixture, and then set the bowl on ice or snow till wanted. For lady cake you may substitute finger biscuit or slices of almond sponge cake. You may ornament the bowl by beating to a stiff froth the whites of two or three eggs, and heaping it on the top. CREAM, VELVET. Take ^oz. of isinglass dissolved in a cup and a half of white wine, the juice and rind of a lemon, and | lb. of sugar; simmer together, strain it, and set it to cool; add IJ pint of rich cream, stirred well until quite cool; put it into moulds, and set it on ice tiill served. CREAM, WHIPPED (1). Take a pint of thick cream, put it into a basin or stewpan, and beat it up with a whisk to a strong froth; then mix in a little powder sugar and orange-flower water. Serve it in a small basket made with paste, and garnish round with sweet rusks. If your cream should not soon froth, as sometimes it will not, be careful that you do not beat it to butter. CREAM, WHIPPED (2). Put some good cream, with a proportionate quantity of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan; whip it to a froth with an osier whisk. As the froth rises let it stand an instant, then take it off gently with a skim,mer, and place it on the dish like a pyramid ; garnish your dish with green lemon or orange chips, and serve it. CREAM, WHIPPED (au Caramel). Boil 6 ozs. of sugar to caramel, and when it has acquired the proper reddish yellow tinge dissolve it in half a glass of boiling water over hot ashes, after which it must be reduced to a rather thick syrup. When cold mix it with the whipped cream in the usual way. See Cream, Whipped. CREAM, WHIPPED (Printaniere). Dilute two spoonsful of essence of spinach at- tained by degrees with half a glass of Indian maraschino; pour this mixture and 6 ozs. of powder sugar to whipped cream as directed for Cream, Whipped. CREAM, WHIPPED (with Zests). Take 6 ozs. of lump sugar, and rasp on it the fourth part of the zest of a sweet, the same of a Seville orange, the same of a cedrat, and half the zest of a lemon ; scrape the sugar in the usual way, and then mix it with your whipped cream as already directed. See Cream, Whipped. CREOSOTE is the constituent of wood smoke and pyroligneous acid, which renders them so preservative of meat, and imparts to it that grateful flavour popularly known as "hammy." Creosote may be obtained in a separate form by distilling tar, and is then a volatile, colourless, very strongly smelling liquid. Mr. Cooley thus details its uses :— Creosote is recommended for internal use against several diseases of the channels of digestion and the organs of respiration, against rheumatism and gout, torpid nervous fever, spasms, diabetes, and tapeworm ; in the form of pills; with the juice of Spanish liquoriceCRE [ 376 ] CRO as an emulsion; as an ethereal or spirituous Bolution; externally, against chronic diseases of the skin, sores of ditferent kinds, mortifica- tion, scalding; wounds, as a styptic; caries of the teeth, and toothache thereby produced, mostly in the form of an aqueous solution (1 of creosote to 80 of water); for poultices, lotions, and injec- tions ; and likewise, mixed with lard (5 drops to 1 drachm), as an ointment; and, dissolved in spirits of wine, as a popular remedy for tooth- ache. The opinions as to the effects of creosote as an internal remedy are divided, obviously because, as is generally the case with new remedies, too much was expected from it, and it has therefore been employed in the most opposite diseases. It is doubtless most effective in the cases named as an external remedy.— {Duflos's Pharm. Chym.) Ci-eosote is also em- ployed to preserve animal substances, either by washing it over them or by immersing them in its aqueous solution. A few drops in a saucer, or on a piece of spongy paper, if placed in a larder, will effectually drive away insects, and make the meat keep several days longer than otherwise. A small quantity added to brine or vinegar is commonly employed to impart a smoky flavour to meat and fish, and its solution ill acetic acid is used to give the flavour of whiskey to plain spirits. CRESPIGNY'S, LADY, PILLS. Mix together 3 drachms of powdered aloes, 1 drachm of powdered mastic, and 1 drachm of red rose leaves. Make them into a mass, and divide it into three-grain pills. Two to be taken when needed to promote digestion. They are some- times called dinner pills. CRESS SAUCE. Wash some cress very clean, and pick it carefully leaf by leaf; put a tea- spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, boil the cress about ten minutes, drain it on a sieve, mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depend on the cress being minced very fine. Put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it by degrees about half a pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the cress will add to its thickness. Never pour cress sauce over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. CRESS yiNEGAR. Dry and pound i oz. of cress seed (such as is sown in the garden with mustard), pour upon it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep t-en days, shaking it every day. CRICKETS (Gryllifs fjomesticus) are most effectually driven away by scattering Scotch snuff in and abput their haunts. They delight in new-bujlt houses, where the moisture and softness of the mortar enable them to penetrate between the joints of the bricks or stones, and thus to open communications to different rooms. Crickets have a great partiality for kitchens and bakers' ovens, on account of the continual warmth to be found in those places. They ai-e known by their lively chirping notes, performed by a sudden friction of their wings, or by striking them against their hind legs. This noise, how- ever, is peculiar to the males, and increases to- wards night, when they leave their secret haunts. The female deposits her yellowish eggs in the earth or rubbish, whence the insects emerge in twelve days, and attain their full growth in six or eight weeks, after having four times changed their coats. Towards the latter part of the summer they are observed to fly, a circumstance which accounts for their suddenly retreating from one place and appearing at another. An easy method of destroying this insect is to place phials half full of beer or any other liquid near their holes, whence they will crawl into them and cannot escape. Cats are very fond of crickets, but the vast quantities they consume often occasion their death. CRIMPING FISH. Strike a newly caught fish on the head to deprive it of sensation, and before the muscles are stiffened by the rigid contractions of death cut as many transverse sections as you desire across the body, and throw it in cold water. The contraction, called crimp- ing, commences in about five minutes . but if the fish is large it will take half an hour to complete. Hard water is the best. Gashes across the cheek are frequently made in crimp- ing, which improve the appearance of the fish when served up, and give a greater facility for carving. It has been asserted that a fish will Veigh more when crimped than before, which may be accounted for by its absorbing some of the cold water. The object of crimping is first to retard the stiffening of the muscles, and then, by the immersion, to excite it to the greatest possible degree, by which means the fish becomes firmer and keeps longer. It also gives facility in the cooking and carving. Crimped cod is a proof that the fish is fresh; and those who live on the seacoast, and obtain their fish shortly after it is caught, will find crimping a great improvement and easily per- formed. CROCATS. See Croquettes. CROCHET. Ribbed crochet is formed by working backwards and forwards, taking the under instead of the upper loop of the chain. Long Stitch is made by bringing the thread round the hook. Draw it through a loop of the chain. You have now three loops on the hook. Draw the thread through two of them You have now two loops. Draw the thread through these two. You have now one on the hook. To continue long stitches successivelyC 377 3 CRO CRO pass the thread round the hook, take the next loop of the chain, and repeat as above. But for open crochet draw another loop through the one on the hook. Pass the thread round the hook, and take the second loop of the chain. Working with Two or more Colours in the same Row. In order to bring the stitches quite square, supposing a row is described as two white and two black alternately to the end, work one stitch white, pass the hook through the next loop" of the chain, and draw the wool through. You have now two loops. Draw the black through these two. You will now perceive that the two white stitches are finished. Work one white stitch, and repeat from the one white stitch. Carrying on the Thread. When two colours are employed in the same row lay the one you are not working with along the top of the chain, and work over it with the other; but when more than two colours are used it is best to cut off the material after having worked the pattern, and run in the ends with a needle. Keeping the Edges even. This is a most im- portant rule to be observed. At the beginning and end of a row of double crochet make one chain stitch, and in open crochet make three chain stitches. If these edge stitches are omitted the work intended to be square will be drawn aslant. Making the Chain. In most cases, as for a purse, a square bag, a sofa cushion, &c., it is necessary to work the chain very loose, or the end on which you begin will be drawn, and will not yield to the elasticity of the other parts. In working the polka or yachting jacket this is most essential, as it is united up the back, and unless the seam is elastic it cannot fit well. Fastening off. In working sofa pillows, shawls, &c., make the chain, and cut off the wool at the end, leaving about two inches. In working the next row, when you ai'rive within two inches of the end, lay this short piece along the edge of the chain, and work over it. Proceed in like manner every row. The Hook, or Crochet. In all coarse work, and even with silk when practicable, an ivory hook is the most desirable; it is so light in the hand, and becomes in use so glassy smooth, that it greatly facilitates the operation. But for fine purse silk or cotton a steel hook or a tambour needle in a screw handle can only be employed, as possessing greater strength than the former. The manufacture of them is also much im- proved by being made less sharp than formerly —they do not catch or split the material. CROCKERY. It is a good plan to prepare crockery and glass which will be used to hold hot water by boiling them, which is effected by putting the articles into a kettle of cold water over the fire, letting them just boil, then taking the kettle off, and allowing them to remain in the water till cold. CROLLERS. Take 1 lb. of flour, ^Ib. of the best moist sugar, and three eggs, to be mixed together after the first two have been rolled, and the latter beaten a few moments, and then rolled out as thin as possible in squares, scored with a knife about the width of a fingei", and fried in lard. CROQUE EN BOUCHES. These are large pieces of ornamental confectionary formed of various materials, as gimhlettes, croquignoles, Genoises, or of oranges cut into quarters, chest- nuts, gi'een nuts, &c., arranged within moulds according to fancy, and cemented together with boiled sugar. CROQUETTES OF BOILED MEAT. Mince some boiled meat very small, add to it some sausage meat, mashed potatoes, crumbs of bread soaked in milk, and sweet herbs; make them into a paste, and form it into little balls ; roll them in very fine raspings, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them with sauce piquante. CROQUETTES A LA D'ESTREES. Use the best puff paste; roll it very thin, and cut it into different shapes as fancy leads ; bake them, and dress each piece upon a dish in a handsome manner; rub them with a little caramel to make them stick as you place them, then put some currant jelly all over the top, and make what flower or design you please, with nonpareils of different colours round it. CROQUETTES, FRENCH, or Crocats. Mince the white meat of a cold turkey or some nice veal very small; then take two boiled eggs (yolks and whites), with a little lean ham, and chop the whole very fine ; next take some bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg or mace. Mix all up with a raw egg and a spoonful of cream, working the whole into a sugar-loaf shape; glaze it with yolk of egg, and roll it in more crumbs ; fry it in boiling lard till it is brown; then lay it on a sieve to drain. For a sauce take a little brown soup, and reduce it by boil- ing ; then beat up the yolk of an egg with a spoonful of cream; add this to the soup, with some nutmeg, but do not let it boil after the egg is put in. Serve up the croquettes in the sauce, CROQUETTES A LA PARISIENNES. Take a stick of vanilla, pound it with 2 ozs. of sugar, and sift it through a silk sieve ; mix it with 7 ozs. of sugar well dried and pounded, and I lb. of sifted flour; then stir in the whites of 4 eggs whipped firmly, and work the whole together for some minutes. Heat two large baking plates of copper, and rub them ovei lightly with virgin wax ; when they are cold take a spoonful of the prepai'ation, and lay it on the plate the same as the spoon biscuits, taking care to lay them threei quarters of au inch apart.£ 37» J CRO CRO When both plates are full place them on stools in the oven or stove, close the top, and lay embers over it, so that the croquettes may be as far removed from the fire as possible; let them remain in this state all night; the next morn- ing put them into a moderate oven, and bake them fifteen or twentj' minutes; they should then quit the plate easily, and be of a clear reddish colour; remove them from the plates whilst hot. CROQUETTES OF RICE. Boil ilb. of rice till it becomes quite soft and dry, and then mix with it two table-spoonsful of rich; but not strong, grated cheese, a small tea-spoonful of powdered mace, and sufficient fresh butter to moisten it; mince very fine six table-spoonsful of the white part of a cold chicken or turkey, the soft parts of six large oysters, and a sprig or two of tarragon or parsley; add a grated nut- meg and the yellow rind of a lemon; mix the whole well, moistening it with cream or white wine. Take of the prepared rice a portion about the size of an egg, flatten it, and put into the centre a dessert-spoonful of the mixture ; close the rice round it as you would the paste round a dumpling apple ; then form it into the shape of an egg ; brush it over with some beaten yolk of egg, and then dredge it with pounded crackers. In this way make up the whole into oval balls; have ready in a saucepan over the fire 1 lb. of boiling lard; into this throw the croquettes two at a time, so as to brown them ; let them brown for a few minutes, then take them out with a perforated skimmer, drain them from the lard, and serve them up hot, garnished with curled parsley. CROQUETTES OP SWEETBREADS. Having trimmed some sweetbreads nicely and removed the gristle, parboil them, and mince them very fine ; add grated bi'ead; season with a very little salt and pepper, some powdered mace and nutmeg, and some grated lemon rind; moisten the whole with cream, atid make it into small cones or sugar loaves, forming and ismoothing them nicely; have ready some beaten egg mixed with grated bread crumbs; dip into it each croquette, and fi-y them slowly in fresh butter; serve them hot, standing up on a dish, and with a sprig of parsley on the top of each. Sweetbreads should never be used unless per- fectly fresh. They spoil very rapidly. As soon as they are brought from market they should be slit open and laid in cold water. Never attempt to keep sweetbreads till the next day except in cold weathen CROQUIGNOLES A LA CHARTRES. Blanch and pound 5 Ozs. of sweet and 3 ozs. of bitter almonds with a little white of egg ; put ^ lb. of flour on your slab, and make a hole in the middle, in which put the almonds, with i lb. of powder sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, and a little salt. Make this into a paste, and roll it into strips about the size of your finger; cut them into square pieces the bigness of a filbert, and roll them into little balls; place them on baking plates rubbed with wax; doi-ez and bake them in a moderate oven. Remove them from the plates whilst hot, as, if suffered to grow cold first, they will break to pieces. CROQUIGNOLES A LA FRxiNgAISES. Break up J lb. of bitter macaroons so small as to be able to sift them, and, having laid i lb. of sifted flour on your slab, make a hole in the middle, and put in the macaroons, with 6 ozs. of powder sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, 3 ozs. of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; make these ingredients into a paste, and form the croquignoles into the shape and size of olives; dorez them lightly, and bake them in a gentle oven. These must be of a lighter colour than other croquignoles. CROTON OIL is the most violent of pur- gatives. It is obtained from the seeds of the Croton Tiglium, which is a native of the island of Ceylon, and is found in Malabar, China, Cochin-Cliina, and the Molucca Islands. Every part of the plant would seem to be endowed with medicinal activity. The root acts as a drastic pur- gative, and when pulverised and exhibited in the dose of a few grains is considered at Amboyna and Batavia as a specific for dropsy. The ivood [Lignum Pavanm) pi'oduces, when administered in small doses, a diaphoretic effect, and in larger ones it proves drastic. The leaves are also purga- tive, and when dried and powdered are supposed to afford an antidote against the bite of the cohra de capella. The seeds, however, are the parts which have been more generally employed in medicine, the effects of which appear to have been well known for nearly a thousand years. They were early introduced into Europe, and long known under the names of Grana Molucca, Tilii grana, and Grana Tiglia. It appears that they were at first very frequently administered, but their extreme acrimony and violence, and probably the accidents which arose from their injudicious use, soon banished the article from medical practice. In India, however, these seeds are still employed as an effectual purgative, after first undergoing the process of roasting or baking for the purpose of removing the shell, rendering the nut pulverulent, and at the same time of moderating its acrimonious qualities. The expressed oil of these seeds does not appear to have been obtained in a separate form until a later period. This oil does not produce any effects which caiinot be commanded by other drastic purgatives ; its value depends upon the facility with which it may be administered. In some cases it is amply sufticient to touch the tongue, in others a drop or two will be required.[ 379 ] CRO CRO In maniacs, and in cases where the administra- tion of bulky medicines is extremely difficult, it would seem to offer a decided advantage. It has been usually given in this country, in the pro- portion of from one to two drops, in the form of pills. Dr. Nimmo's discovery with respect to the chemical composition of the oil very naturally suggested to him the mode of administering it in the form of an alcoholic tincture {Tinctura Tiglii), and he has found by experience that such a preparation furnishes the means of I'eadily apportioning the dose to the various cir<;um- stances of the case. Thus he found that, in administering a tincture in doses equivalent to the number of drops decomposed, the same effects were produced as have been attributed to the entire oil. In making such a tincture we should employ a fluid drachm of rectified spii'it to two drops of the oil. They should be digested for some time, and then filtered. With all the care that can be used a certain portion of the spirit will be evaporated, and half a fluid drachm of the tincture may be thus considered as nearly equivalent to a drop and a half of the oil. CROUP. This disease generally creeps on in an insidious and almost imperceptible manner, beginning first with a hoarseness and wheezing, short dry cough, and sometimes a rattling in the throat when asleep. Among the other symptoms characterising this disease the most conspicuous is that of the voice in speaking and in coughing, acquiring a shrill and peculiar sound similar to the crowing of a cock, or to the noise made by a fowl when caught in the hand. It most frequently terminates fatally about the fourth or fifth day, when the patient expires from suffocation. The croup is mostly confined to children be- tween the age of three and thirteen years, and prevails most in low and moist situations, and on the seashore. Anything causing inflamma- tion may bring it on. It is supposed to be contagious, and prevails epidemically. This disease may be distinguished from the convulsive asthma of children by the following signs :—In croup the cough is frequently sing- ing in our ears, whereas in the latter there is little or no cough. In the first there is seldom or never any remission, whereas, in the convul- sive or acute asthma, this is one of the most striking phenomena of the disease, and it is attended with some evacuation, such as belching, vomiting, or purging. In croup the pulse is strong, with much febrile heat, the urine is high coloured, and the voice shrill and small. In the convulsive asthma the pulse, though perhaps equally quick, is less full, the urine is limpid, and the voice is croaking and deep. The treatment adopted in this disease is the game as obtains in all those of the inflammatory kind —early bleeding from the jugular vein, and by the application of leeches to the wind- pipe, &c.; emetics in full and nauseating doses, especially ipecacuanha, squills, or tartar emetic. Immediately after bleeding it will be proper to apply a large blister across the throat from ear to ear, keeping it open after it is removed by dressing the part with savine cerate. After this a gentle emetic is recommended, namely take ipecacuanha wine, ^ oz.; oxymel of squills, 3 drachms, of which give the patient a tea-spoon- ful often. Or, tincture of squills, \\ drachm ; oxymel, 5 drachms; distilled water, 1^ oz. A tea-spoonful to be given often until nausea or vomiting be promoted. Great relief will be afforded by this means, in consequence of which a considerable quantity of ropy matter will be brought off. Purgatives of neutral salts or submuriate of mercury are to be given occasionally:—Take sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salts), 3 drachms; infusion of senna (senna tea), l^oz.; syrup of roses, 2 drachms. Make a mixture, and give a table-spoonful as may be required. In all cases of croup the child must be kept nearly upright in bed, to guard against suffoca- tion. Brisk purgatives, in which the submuriate of mercury (calomel) may be an ingredient when the bowels are inactive, are proper, namely, take submuriate of mercury, 3 grains; jalap, 4 to 8 grains; or, rhubarb in powder, 6 grains; calomel, 2 grains. Strong decoction of snake root, frequently taken into the mouth in small quantities, has been successfully used to promote a separation of the films and coagula that form and adhei-e to the windpipe and cells of the lungs, where it has been thought the inflammatory affection in croup is chiefly confined, although the late Drs. Baillie and Cbeyne have asserted the contrary. When the child is threatened with suffocation it will be right to excite sneezing by introducing strong snuff or the compound asarum powder up the nostrils by means of a quill, as well as to cause vomiting by a solution of emetic tartar, or of sulphate of zinc if the patient can swallow. CROUSTADE. Take a loaf of close texture, remove the crust, and cut the crumb I'ound to the size you may require, and about four inches in height; form it into the shape of a cup or basin, and, cutting the outside accord- ing to your taste, put it into a pan with a proper quantity of butter, and brown it. When of a good colour and very dry drain it, take out the inside, and fill it with such articles as you may require. CROUSTADE A LA BECHAMEL. Line the number of custard moulds you may require with a rich puff paste, adding a small quantity[ 380 j CRU CEO of flour; fill them up with the cuttings of the paste, ai-d bake in a brisk oven of a lightish red colour. In the meanwhile cut some breast of fowl into small pieces three quarters of an inch long, and a quarter wide ; also cut some very black truffles or champignons into pieces the same size, flavoured with bechamel; put these into the bain-marie, and when wanted put some into each croustade, pour in a little bechamel, cover, and serve ' them. Observe that the croustades must be opened the moment they are taken from the oven. They may be filled with any other preparation you please. ■ ■. CROUSTADE DE NO'UILLE. Mix some paste d Nouille with the yolks of twelve eggs, and when sufficiently rolled out put it into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil a few minutes, and then, having drained it, put it into a stewpan, with I lb. of butter and a little salt. In a little while pour the paste on a dish, taking care to keep it of an equ^l thickness. When cold turn it on the slab, and cut out the croustade of the size and form you may require; then, having beaten up eight eggs, dip each croustade into it, draining and rolling each as you do them in grated brea;d crumbs. ' Do this a second time, rolling them lightly on the slab to make them smooth, and fry them a good colour in a very hot pan; open and fill them with such pre- parations as you may think proper ; then cover ar,d serve them. ■ - ' : CROuTES AU POT. Take some crusts of French bread with very little crumb in them, cut them into thin slices, and lay them in a deep dish; pour over them some broth and pot skim- mings, and set the dish over the fire until the bread is burnt to the bottorn; then take three outsides of a loaf, cutting out all the crumb; soak these in some skimmings of broth, season them with salt and pepper, and set them upright on the gratin. Just before serving drain them well, that the pottage may be quite dry; put some broth or stock in a sauce tureen, and serve.' • CROUT, SOUR. , See Sauerkraut. ■ CRULLA. See Cake, Aberdeen Crulla. ' ■ CRUMBS, FRIED. Rub bread which has been baked two days through a wire sieve or in a cloth till it is veiy fine ; put it into a stew- pan with 2 ozs. of butter,'and set it over a slow fire, stirring the crumbs about with a spoon till they are of the colour of gold ; spread them on a sieve, and let them stand to drain ten minutes, turning them often. This is an ornamental garnish to serve up with roasted sweetbread or small garnet CRUMPETS. Make 1 pint of wann milk and i pint of yeast, both strained, into a strong batter with a sufiicient quantity of flour; cover and set it in a warm place to rise ; then add i pint of warm milk and 1 oz. of butter worked up in a little flour, but only flour enough to prevent the batter from being too thin. In a quarter of an hour have the iron rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove, pour the batter into these rings, and bake them. ' CRUMPETS, NORTON. To a quart of good milk rather warm put four large spoonsful of purified yeast and a little salt, mixing it by degrees into as much flour (beating it a little to take out the lumps) as will make rather a thick batter, and add two well-beaten eggs; then cover and set it on the hearth to rise. When well risen keep taking the batter from the top with a wooden spoon, and bake it on a bake-stone or iron plate, rubbed over with a bit of butter in a clean cloth. About a quarter of a pint of batter will make a good-sized crumpet. Turn them as soon as possible after you lay them on with a tin slice the size of the cake; when browned turn them again, and lay them on a cooler part of the stove to soak a little; always keep the hottest part to pour the fresh batter upon, and take care they do not burn. As they are baked lay them on a clean cloth, and keep theca covered. When to be used toast them, or lay them on a tin, with a clean wet cloth over them; set them in the oven, and they will eat as il fresh baked. To dip them quickly in milk or water answers the same purpose as a wet cloth. Be careful not to dry them, or they will not ba nice. ' ' ' - CRUMPETS, or Pikelets. Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that half milk and half water must be used, and to every half quartern of flour two eggs must be added; beat the eggs thoroughly.' Bake the crumpets in rings as usual. CRUMPETS, POTATO. Grate some po- tatoes of the most mealy kind into some clean water, rub them through a hair sieve, adding plenty of water; then pour off the water, leaving the starch quite clear at the bottom ; mix it with the potatoes, and to about 3 lbs. of potatoes mix i lb. of flour, an egg, and a little salt; bake them in the same mannej- as crumpets, and butter them hot. A spoonful of yeast may be added. CRUST FOR CUSTARDS. Take i lb. of flour, 6 ozs. of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, and 3 spoonsful of cream ; mix them together, and let it stand a quarter of an hour; then work it up and down, and roll it very thin. CRUST, RAISED (I). Melt in 1 pint of water 1 lb. of fresh lard ; weigh 4 lbs. of flour, put it into a basin, and when the water and lard are hot stir it by degrees with a hom amongst the flour. When well mixed work it with the hands till it is a stiff paste, when it is fit for use. CRUST, RAISED (2). Put into a sauce-CRU CUO [ 381 ] pan 1^ pint of water, 4 lbs. of flour, and 4 J ozs. of butter; stir till it is a thick paste, take it out, and add the yolks of 3 or 4 beaten eggs; work it well together, roll it out rather more than half an inch thick ; cut out the top and bottom ; set on the sides, keeping the paste rather within the edge of the bottom; pinch it all round to make the pieces adhere; then fill the pie, and brush round the upper sides of the crust and the outer edges of the cover with egg; lay on the cover, pinch it round neatly, and ornament it according to fancy with leaves, festoons, or chains of rings made of paste. CRUST, SHORT. Pound, sift, and dry 2 ozs. of white sugar; then mix it with 1 lb. of well-dried flour, rubbing into it so fine as not to be seen 3 ozs. of butter; then put the yolks of 2 eggs into some cream, and mix the whole into a smooth paste ; roll it out thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. CRUST SHORT AND RICH. Mix into a stifiBsh paste, using as little water as possible, 6 ozs. of butter and 8 ozs. of fine flour, rubbing the butter well into the flour before mixing it with the water; beat it well, and roll it thin. Bake in a moderate oven. This crust is proper, aa well as the above, for tarts of fresh or pre- served fruits. CRUST FOR VENISON PASTY. Work into a paste with warm water 2^ lbs. of butter, 1 peck of fine flour, and 4 eggs ; work it till Bmooth and of a good consistence. The paste should be put round the inside, but not at the bottom of the dish. Let the cover be tolerably thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. CRUSTS FOR CHEESE. Take a half- baked loaf from the oven, and tear it into small rough bits with a couple of forks ; lay these on a tin, and put them back into the oven for ten minutes. If a light loaf be made for the pur- pose with new milk and 2 ozs. of butter the bits will quite resemble rusks. A sweet light cake pulled apart in the same manner is likewise very good. CRYING. We shall confine our notes to the squalling of infants. It is remarkable that the first symptoms of human life are uniformly those of loud cries. Hence superstitious persons are apt,to imagine that such are tlie prognostics of future misery. Those who reflect upon the previous situation of the new-born, who is now surrounded by a diff'erent element, and placed in a much colder temperature, may easily account for this natural phenomenon. Instead, therefore, of being alarmed by those plaintive expressions, we ought to rejoice, because they indicate ex- panded lungs and vital action. In a similar manner judicious persons will consider the fre- quent and almost instinctive cries of children as they advance in age, unless arising from acci- dental and obvious causes. The conduct of those mothers who from an excess of tenderness, and of those nui'ses who from too much ofiicious- ness, exert their utmost endeavours to relieve the clamorous noise of infants (often by the most absurd and pernicious means), equally deserve to be censured. Admitting that in some, nay, in many cases, it proceeds from a concealed pain, yet experience has sufficiently evinced . that these very cries alleviate, and often totally remove such painful sensations as are produced by flatulency, gripes, &c. Never- theless, when children continue in an uneasy state for a considerable time, violently drawing their legs towards their stomach, wemayconclude that they are afiiicted with colic pains; or, if they suddenly move their hands and arms to their face while crying, we may attribute it to difficult teething; and if other morbid symptoms accompany these loud complaints, especially if repeated at certain periods of the day, we ought in such cases by no means to neglect them, but endeavour to ascertain the efficient causes. Hunger is frequently assigned as a motive for crying, but it is not always really so. The latter is the sole language of infants, by which they manifest all their sensations and wants. If they cry without intermission it may be con- sidered as an indication of the return of appetite, and they ought to be satisfied either by the breast or other means; but if they vociferate quickly and abruptly it may be reasonably sup- posed to proceed from a sense of pain. Circum- stances of this nature claim the most diligent attention of mothers and nurses. We therefore earnestly enjoin them to study the exact distinc- tion of the diff'erent sounds expressed by their infants, as the results of such inquiries would greatly enable the medical assistant to ascertain with more precision the true cause of infantine CUCUMBER SALAD. Peel and cut a cucumber in slices, or peel without slicing it, and let it steep twenty-four hours in vinegar; then when you wish to serve drain off" the vinegar, and season the cucumber with pepper and salt. CUCUMBER SAUCE. Cut four cucumbers into pieces the size of half-a-crown, and three quarters of an inch thick ; put them in a clean cloth, and rub them well to take out the water; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, to which add the cucumbers, and set them over a brisk fire, taking care to shake them frequently ; when they are of a good colour put to them three large spoonsful of veloute and two of blond; let them remain a shoit time on the fire. CUCUMBER TOAST. Make a ragout of cucumbers well thickened; add to it the yolkacue r 383 ] cue of tliree eggs, draw a knife dipped in a beaten egg over the whole, cover with grated bread, and then fry it. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. Pare and cut in slices 15 large cucumbers, put them into a stone jar, with 3 pints of vinegar, 4 large onions cut in slices, 3 shallots, a little garlic, 2 large spoonsful of salt, 3 tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper. After leaving them to stand four days give the whole a boil; when cold strain and filter the liquor through paper, put it into small bottles, and use it for salad or with cold meat. CUCUMBERS: To Pkeserve (1). Make choice of those which are small and not too old. Put them into jars, and pour over them a brine. ' To make the brine take two-thirds of water and one of vinegar to several pounds of -alt, according to the quantity of brine you wish to make, 1 lb. to 3 pints ; put it over the fire till the salt is melted, let it stand to settle, and before you use it pour it off clear. When you wish to use them take the rind off, and dress them in the same way as fresh cucumbers. CUCUMBERS : To Presekve (2). Split and take the seeds from the number of cucum- bers you intend to use ; lay them for three days in strong salt and water, with a little alum, and boil them till tender; drain, and let them lay in a thin syrup for two days ; then boil the syrup again, and pour it over the cucumbers ; repeat this operation twice more; then, having boiled to sou ffle some clarified sugar, put them in it, and simmer them for five minutes; the next day boil both up again, when they may be put by for use. CUCUMBERS, BLANQUETTE OF. Pare and stew your cucumbers in a little sauce tournee and sugar; then drain them, reduce the liquor, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, and when wanted for table put in the cucumbers. CUCUMBERS AND CREAM (]). Pare and cut into squares some small cucumbei's; then put them into salt and water, first letting it boil up. When the cucumbers become soft to the touch take them out of the salt and water, let them diain in a cloth, make a thick sauce a, la crane, put the cucumbers into it, and serve. CUCUMBERS AND CREAM (2). Your cucumbers being pared and the seeds taken out, cut them into dice, blanch them, and then put them into a saucepan, with a little melted butter, parsley and scallions shred small, salt, pepper, morels, and goodbrotli; let them stew for some time over a gentle fire. When done add the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, and a small piece of butter. To the sauce may be added a little verjuice if you think proper. CUCUMBERS, DRIED. Take some pre- served ciicumbers, wash all the syrup from them* put them on sieves to drain, and then into a stove. One day is enough to let them dry. When dry take them out, paper a box, ana put them in it, with a paper between every layer of cucumbers. CUCUxMBERS, ESSENCE OF. Take the parings from your cucumbers, and make a puree of them with a little butter, which must be drained off as soon as melted, and the puree diluted with the sauce tournee, in which the cucumbers have been dressed as for Blanquette, they being put to drain. When the puree is very thick mix with it four spoonsful of veloute and a little sugar, and then strain it; toss up the scallops in it, and add a little thick cream if not sufficiently white. Season it well, and serve it quite hot. CUCUMBERS, GARNITURE OF (au Blanc). Pare and cut your cucumbers into square pieces, and then trim them into the form of oyster shells; blanch them in a little salt. When done drain, and then toss them up in a little butter; add some sauce tournee, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs. CUCUMBERS, GARNITURE OF (at; Bbun). Prepare the cucumbers as for Blanc ; then put the slices in a pan, with water, salt, pepper, vinegar, and sliced onions ; soak them in this for some hours; then drain and press them in a cloth; put them into a saucepan, with butter, stock, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When done put a little gravy to them, and serve. They may also be fried in grated bacon, in which case they should be moistened with oil and vinegar. CUCUMBERS AU GRAS. Pare and take the seeds from your cucumbers, cut them into slices an inch thick, and throw them into cold water; then soak them in a glass of hot broth and the same of vinegar; drain and dip them into batter, and fry them in lard. Glaze them with powder sugar as you take them out of the pan. CUCUMBERS, POTTAGE OF (1). Cut your cucumbei's into small oval pieces, and blanch them for ten minutes; let them cool and drain; put some slices of bacon into a stewpan, and then the cucumbers ; cover them with bacon, and add carrots, onions, pepper, and two cloves; let them stew thus for half an hour. Put some bread in a soup dish, and pour over it a sufficient quantity of stock or broth to soak it well. Lay the cucumbers on it, pass the liquor through a sieve, take off the fat. and pour it on the pottage. CUCUMBERS, POTTAGE OF (2). Pare and split two cucumbers into four parts, and, having taken out the seeds, cut each Quarter into round slices as nearly of a size asCUL [ 383 ] cue possible; put them into a stewpan with a little salt to take out all the water; then strain them through^a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter; toss them up lightly, but not to colour them ; then add a handful of sorrel chopped finely, and a pinch of chervil. Moisten it with some good stock ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour. When ready for table thicken it with the yolks of three eggs and a little cream, and pour it over your breads which should be cut in pieces similar to the cucumbers. CUCUMBERS A LA POULETTE. Pare and slice the cucumbei's, and, having soaked the slices for half an hour in vinegar and salt, dry them in a napkin, and put them into a pan with 2 ozs. of butter; fry them over a brisk fire, sprinkle flour over, pour a little broth on them^ and let them stand till reduced without breaking; then add a small quantity of chopped parsley, a little salt, the same of sugar, and three eggs; stew all together a little while, and serve hot. Pepper may be added according to taste. CUCUMBERS, RAGOUT OF. Let some cucumbers soak for two hours in half a tea- spoonful of vinegar and a little salt; turn them often, by which means the water, which is so cold to the stomach, will be drawn out. After they have been thus soaked squeeze and put tliem into a stewpan, with some good stocky a bunch of herbs, and a bit of butter; stew them, and when done add a little cullis, clear off the fat from the ragoiit, and serve; or when you have squeezed the cucumbers put them into a stewpan with some butter, and, having turned them a few times over the fire, shake in a little flour and moisten with stock. When it is suffi- ciently done, and the sauce consumed, add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with some milk, and serve them for an entremet either under eggs or without eggs. If you wish to make a soup of them boil up some cucumbers once in water, and then dress them with stock and gravy to give them a nice colour. When done garnish the edge of your soup dish with them, and take care of the water they were boiled in to add to the soup. CUCUMBERS, STEWED. Slice some cucumbers thickly, or cut them into halves and divide them into two lengths ; strew over them some salt, pepper, and sliced onions; add a little broth or a bit of butter; simmer very slowly; and before you serve them, if no butter was ill before, put some, and a little flour unless it wants richness. CULLIS. Put some roux into a saucepan, and when it is warm add some stock and a bunch of parsley to it, stirring it with a wooden spoon ; let it boil for about an hour, taking care to skim it; strain it through a sieve, take off all the fat and the scum which form at the top, and then set it by for use. CULLIS FOR BUTCHERS' MEAT. You must take your meat according to the number of guests : if ten or twelve a leg of veal and a ham will be necessary, with all the fat, skin, and outside cut off. Cut the leg of veal in pieces of about three or four inches thick each way, place them in a stewpan, and then the slices of ham, two carrots, and an onion cut in two; cover it closely, and let it stew softly at first, and as it begins to brown take off the cover and turn it, to colour on all sides the same, but take care not to burn the meat. When it has a pretty brown colour moisten your cullis with broth made of beef or other meat; season the cullis with a little sweet basil, some cloves, and a little garlic; pare a lemon, cut it in slices, and put it into the cullis with some mushrooms ; put into a stew- pan a good lump of butter, and set it over a slow fire; add to it two or three handsful of flour, stir it with a wooden ladle, and let it take colour ; if the cullis be pretty brown you must put in some flour. The flour being brown with the butter, pour it gently into the cullis, keeping it stirring with a wooden ladle ; then let the cullis stew softly, and skim ofl' all the fat; put in two glasses of champagne or other white wine, but take care to keep the cullis thin, so that you may take the fat off well and clarify it. To clarify it you must put it into a stove that draws well, cover it closely, and let it boil without uncovering until it boils over; then uncover it, and take off the fat that is round the stewpan; wipe the cover also, and cover it again. When the cullis is done take out the meat, and strain the cullis through a silk strainer. This cullis is for all sorts of ragouts, fowls, pies, and tureens. CULLIS FOR FAMILY USE. Roll a piece of butter in flour, and stir it in a stewpan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour ; then put in some thin broth, a little gravy, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper, and salt. Let it stew an hour over a slow fire ; then skim all the fat off clean, and strain it through a sieve. CULLIS OF FISH. Broil a jack or pike till it is properly done ; then take off the skin, and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs hard, and take out the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, and then add the yolks of eggs. Mix these well with the butter; then put in the fish, and pound all together Take half a dozen onions, and cut them in slices, two parsnips, and three carrots; set on a stewpan, put into it a piece of butter to brown, and boil the roots; turn them.'CUP CUL [ 884 ] till they are brown, and then put in a little broth to moisten them. When it has boiled a few minutes strain into another saucepan, and put in a leek, some parsley, sweet basil, half a dozen cloves, some mushrooms, truffles, and a few bread crumbs. When it has stewed gently a quarter of an hour put in the fish, &c., from the mortar. Let the whole stew some time longer, but be careful that it does not boil. When it is sufficiently done strain it through a coarse sieve. CULLIS, ITALIAN. Put into a stewpan half a ladleful of cullis, as much essence of ham, half a ladleful of gravy, as much of broth, three or four onions cut into slices, four or five cloves of garlic, a little beaten coriander seed, with a lemon pared and cut into slices, a little sweet basil, mushrooms, and good oil; put all over the fire ; let it stew a quarter of an hour ; take the fat off well; let it be of a good taste ; and it may be used with all sorts of meat and fish, particularly with glazed fish. This sauce will also serve for two chickens, six pigeons, quails, or ducklings, and all sorts of tame and wild fowl. CULLIS FOR RAGOUTS. Having cut 3 lbs. of lean veal and ^ lb. of ham into slices, lay them in the bottom of a stewpan ; put in carrots, parsnips, and an onion sliced; cover it, and set it stewing over a stOve; when it has a good colour and begins to stick put to it a little melted butter, and shake in a little flour; keep it moving a little while until the flour is fried; then moisten it with gravy or broth, of each a like quantity; put in some parsley, basil, a whole leek, a bay leaf, some mushrooms and truffles minced small, three or four cloves, and the crust of two French rolls; let all these simmer together for three quarters of an hour; then take out the slices of veal, strain it, and keep it for all sorts of ragouts. * CULLIS OF ROOTS. Cut some carrots, parsnips, parsley root, and onions into slices, put them into a stewpan over the fire, and shape them round; take two dozen blanched almonds and the crumb of two French rolls soaked first in good fish broth, pound them with the roots in a mortar, and then boil all together; season it with pepper and salt, strain it off, and use it for herb or fish soups. CULLIS, WHITE. Take a piece of veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin slices of ham and two onions, each cut into four; moisten it with some broth seasoned with mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, and three cloves, and 60 let it stew. Being stewed take out the meat and roots with a skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it stew softly. Take the white of a fowl or two chickens, and put it into a mortar; being well pounded mix it in the cullis, but it must not boil, and the cullis must be very white; but if not white enough pound two dozen sweet almonds blanched, and put it into the cullis; then boil a glass of milk, and add to it the cullis ; let it be of a good flavour, and strain it off; then put it into a small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be used for white loaves, crust of white bread, and biscuits. CULM. See Anthkaoite. CUPPING is of two kinds; one by which some blood is taken away, generally simply termed cupping; the other when no blood is abstracted, which is accordingly termed dry cupping. The preliminary steps of the operation are the same in both cases : the part to which it is intended to apply the cupping-glasses is washed with warm water, or a warm cloth is merely applied to it, in order to attract blood to the part. A small bell-shaped glass, a portion of the air of which has been expelled by holding it for an instant over the flame of a spirit-lamp, is immediately applied to the spot which has been prepared. The usual amount of pressure on the part being diminished, the blood flows to the part, and produces distention of the vessels and elevation of the surface, as well as a purple or livid colour. If it be intended to take away blood the cupping-glass is speedily removed, and an instrument called a scarificator, con- taining a number of lancets, sometimes as many as twenty, is applied, and made to act so as to inflict a corresponding number of incisions on the skin and subjacent vessels. " The instru- ment is so constructed that the depth to which the lancets penetrate may be made greater or less at the option of the practitioner." It is not in general advisable that the depth should be very great, as more blood flows, and the vessels will continue to bleed longer, if only partially divided, than if completely cut through. The cupping-glass, exhausted as before, is to be immediately replaced, and if skilfully applied, and the air has not been too much I'arefied, by which too great pressure is made by the edges of the glass, a considerable quantity of blood will flow into it. When neai-ly full, or if the blood begin to coagulate, the glass is to be care- fully removed, the wounded part quicldy washed with a sponge with warm water, and the glass having been emptied and washed, is to be again applied if a sufficient quantity of blood should not have been obtained by the first application. Two or more glasses may be applied to different spots at the same time, so that the quantity of blood desired, or necessary to obtain the object in view, may be more quickly abstracted. " Where dry cupping only is intended the glasses may be permitted to remain on the skin for a few moments, and replaced five or six times with a little variation of their position, inCUR CUR C 385 ] Older to preveat the skin from being liurt by their pressure." Cupping by which blood is abstracted is used either where general bleeding is unnecessary, or as supplementary to it, for the removal of congestions or local affections. It is analogous to the use of leeches, over which, however, when the situation of the part admits of the application of the glasses, it has in general many advantages. The blood is more rapidly abstracted, a point of great importance in inflammatory diseases ; the quantity removed can be more exactly ascertained; there is less risk of subsequent bleeding from the wounds; and the part of the body subjected to the ope- ration is exposed to the air for a much shorter time. Cupping is also preferable in cases where the application of leeches is followed by severe erysipelas of the skin. " In all inflammations and congestions about the head cupping on the back of the neck and between the shoulders is a most useful mode of abstracting blood; and this operation is also particularly applicable for the removal of blood Irom the parietes of the chest and abdomen in diseases of the different viscera. Its use, how- ever, is only admissible when it can be employed without exciting pain and irritating the diseased organ." Many cases of impending apoplexy may be warded off by the timely application of cupping-glasses to the neck, aided by a quickly- acting cathartic. Where the abstraction of blood is inexpedient or unnecessary dry cupping is often resorted to with benefit. In adynamic states of fever, especially where the lungs are complicated in the diseased action, if " farther depletion cannot be ventured upon, dry cupping on the back or chest will sometimes be ser- viceable."—[Copland's Dictionary of Medicine, p. 930.) Dry cupping often affords great and immediate relief in many pains of the side, not inflammatoi'y, but hysterical, which occur in females. The pains of the back which likewise occur in females at particular times may be much mitigated by dry cupping. Another and most important application of cupping is the prevention by its means of the absorption of poisonous fluids from wounds. For this purpose anything by which a partial vacuum over the wounded part can be produced will answer, such as a wine-glass, tumbler, or tea-cup with a smooth margin, from which the air has been partially expelled by holding it for a moment over a lighted candle. This mode was in use among the ancients, has been re- vived among the moderns, and is practised by the South Americans, in cases of the bites of venomous serpents, by means of a funnel-shaped calabash.—{Penny Cyclopcedia.) CURA<^OA. This is a species of bitter or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, and may be had at the druggist's. To make the liquor called by this name wash 1 lb. of curacoa several times in warm water; then, having well drained it, put it into a vessel with 4 quarts of brandy and 1 quart of water. Let it stand closely covered for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; after that distil it in the usual way, and drain the cura9oa on a sieve ; sweeten with 5 J lbs. of sugar dis- solved in 3 pints of water; mix it with the spirit, and then filter it. CURAgOA : To Make a Qdaet of. To 1 pint of the clearest and strongest rectified spirit add 2^ drachms of sweet oil of orange- peel, and shake it up; dissolve 1 lb. of good lump sugar in 1 pint of cold water; make this into a clarified syrup, which add to the spirit; shake it up, and let it stand till the following day ; then line a funnel with a piece of muslin, and that with filtei'ing paper, and filter it two or three times till it is quite bright. This liquor is an admirable cordial, and a tea-spoonful in a tumbler of water is a very refreshing drink, and a great improvement to punch. CURD CAKES. Take a quart of curds and eight eggs, leaving out four whites ; put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little flour; mix these well together, heat butter in a frying-pan, drop the cakes in, and fry like fritters. CURD CHEESECAKES. Put 8ozs. of curd, 10 ozs. of butter, 6 ozs. of sugar, and J lb. of almond paste with orange-flower water and a little cream ; beat them up for a quarter of an hour, and bake it in sweet paste. CURD PUDDING, BOILED. Rub the curd of 2 gallons of milk well drained through a sieve ; then mix it with 6 eggs, a little cream, 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg grated, 3 spoonsful of flour, 3 spoonsful of bread crumbs, ^ lb. of currants, and J lb. of raisins stoned. Let it boil for one hour in a thick cloth well floured. CURD PUDDINGS. Turn 2 quarts of milk to curds, press the whey from the curd, and rub it through a sieve ; then add to it 4 ozs. of butter, the crumb of a penny roll, 2 spoons- ful of cream, half a nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and 2 spoonsful of white wine. Butter little cups or small patty pans, and fill them three parts full; bake them carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. CURD PUEFS. Take the curd of two quarts of new milk, and drain it dry; add to it the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of two, sugar, rose water, nutmeg, and bread crumbs ; make into a paste, cut it into what shapes you please, fry them in boiling lard, and serve them with a sauce made of butter, sugar, and white wine. CURD STAR. Put a quart of new milk ovei the fire with a few blades of mace, and when ready 3 ccull [ 386 ] CUR to boil add to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon the point of a small knife ; let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it on a thin cloth or hair sieve, season it with sugar, a little cinna- mon, rose water, orange-flower water, or white wine to your taste, and put it into a star mould, or any other form you jjlease. Leave it for some hours before you turn it into a dish ; then put round it a thick cream or custard. CURDS AND CREAM. Put what quan- tity of milk you please into a pan made rather warm, and then add rennet. When the curd has come lade it into an earthen shape per- forated, or any form you please. As the whey drains fill it up without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before it is wanted it will be very light, but for those who like it harder it should be made earlier and squeezed. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon should be put into the dish, or into a glass bowl to serve with the curd. CURDS AND WHEY. Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls, clean them from the pebbles they contain, rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water. In eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. CURLS. See Hair. CURRANT, BLACK, DROPS. Procure half a sieve of black currants, and put them in a pan ; mash them well with a spatula, and put them over the fire ; let them just boil, and pass them through a sieve over an earthen pan ; put what jelly comes from them into an earthen pipkin, place it on the fire, and let it boil for two hours; keep stirring it all the time with your spatula, or it will bum ; put in 2^ lbs. of powder sugar, mix it with the jam, and stir it over the fire half an hour; drop it on pewter sheets or plates in little drops from your knife, and put them into a hot stove until you find that they are quite dry; then take them off ■with a knife. CURRANT, BLACK, ICE CREAM. Take a large spoonful of black currant jelly, add to it the juice of a lemon and a pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. CURRANT, BLACK, JELLY. Make it in the same way as-j'ed currant jelly, only with this difference, that you may use very coarse sugar. CURRANT, BLACK, WATER ICE. Take a large spoonful of black currant jelly, put it into a basin, add the juice of two lemons, a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; strain it, and freeze it richly. CURRANT, BLACK, WINE. Take 3 lbs. of ripe black currants, pick, bruise, and put them into a deep basin, with 4J bottles of brandy; add if you please some cloves and a little bruised cinnamon, and set the jar in a cool dry place for two months. At the end of that time strain off the liquor, pressing the currants well in order to extract all the juice, which put again into a jar, with If lb. of sugar; leave it till the sugar is completely melted, then strain through paper, and bottle off. This liquor becomes excellent after three or four years' keeping. CURRANT CAKES. Pick and wash the curracts, either white or red, and to H quarts of currants put 1 pint of water. When boiled run the juice through a jelly bag, but do not press the bag, and to 1 quart of juice put 3 lbs. of sugar; boil up the juice, strew in the sugar, pour it into glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out, and then dry the cakes on plates. CURRANT CREAM. Bruise some currants that are thorouglily ripe in boiled cream ; put in beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste; then strain through a fine sieve, and serve. CURRANT, DRIED, AND CEDRAT PUDDING. Rasp the zest of a cedrat on ^ lb. of lump sugar, and scrape it into a pan, with a glass of Madeira wine and f lb. of di'ied cur- rants. Take i lb. of beef suet, 6 ozs. of marrow, both chopped very small, and 5 ozs. of flour; add to them, with 5 eggs, half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, and half a nutmeg grated ; mix these ingredients with the currants, &c., and finish as next directed. CURRANT, DRIED, PUDDING. Chop 1 lb. of suet, and mix it with 1 lb. of flour, ^ lb. of currants well washed, a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, half a spoonful of tincture of saffron, and a little salt; stir in a sufficient quantity of water to make it of a proper consistence, tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour. Serve it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. CURRANT, DRIED, SAUCE (for Venison). Boil for a few minutes 1 oz. of dried currants in half a pint of water; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir the whole well till it is properly smooth. CURRANT, DRIED, WAFERS. Blanch and cut I lb. of sweet almonds into very thin strips, put them into a pan, with J lb. of powder sugar, half a spoonful of flour, the grated rind of an orange, two whole eggs and one yol k, and a grain of salt; stir these ingredients with a spatula very gently, so as not to break the almonds. When well mixed butter a baking plate, about eighteen inches long by twelve wide, upon which pour your pi-eparation, spreading it with the blade of aCUR CUR L S87 J knife lliat it may be equally liquid in all parts, and tlien with a fork remove such of the almonds as may lie above the others; strevf over the Avhole 2 ozs. of dry currants, and put it into a moderately heated oven for two minutes ; then strew over the currants some crushed sugar, and replace it in the oven till it acquires a clear yellowish tinge on both sides. When done cut it into pieces two inches square, and while warm press them on a round stick about two inches in diameter, to give them a semicircular form. This operation should be performed as quickly as possible, that the wafers may not change colour. CURRANT, DRY, BRIOCHE. This is made in the same manner as Cheese Brioche only that currants lb. to 8 lbs. of the paste) are used instead of the cheese. The same quantity of stoned raisins may also be used if preferred. CURRANT, DRY, CAKES. Take 2lbs. of fine flour, 1^ lb. of butter, the j'olks of five or six eggs, l^lb. of sugar, 6 spoonsful of white wine, 3 spoonsful of caraway seeds, 2 nutmegs, and 1 lb. of currants; beat up the butter with your hand till it is very thin ; dry the flour well, and put in the caraway seeds and nutmegs finely grated. Afterwards put them all into your batter, with the eggs, white wine, and rose water ; mingle them well together ; put in the currants, let your oven be pretty hot, and as soon as they are coloured they are sufficiently done, CURRANT, DRY, FRITTERS (without Eggs). Take half a pint of ale, not bitter; stir into it flour to make it tolerably thick, and a few currants ; beat this up thickly, have the lard boil- ing, and throw in a large spoonful at a time. CURRANT, DRY, GENOISES. Having \rashed and dried J lb. of currants, mix half of them and the peel of a lemon finely shred with the usual preparation. Finish and glaze them with i lb. of powder sugar and a little white of egg. As you do them strew over each a few currants, and dry them a minute in the oven. CURRANT FRITTERS (without Eggs). Take about half a pint of mild ale and as much flour as will make it into a thick batter ; add a little sugar and a few currants; beat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop it into boiling lard. CURRANT ICE CREAM. Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin with half a gill of syrup, and squeeze in a lemon and a half; add a pint of cream and a little cochineal; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. CURRANT ICES (1). Boil 2 lbs. of red currants a moment with J lb. of raspberries ; rub them through a sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the sugar, which must be very well dissolved before icing. CURRANT ICES (2). Pick some currants from their stalks, and squeeze them through a sieve ; then take clarified sugar, boil it to a very liigh degree, add it to your currant juice, and if you choose squeeze in the juice of four lemons, as it will make it more mellow; strain it through the sieve a second time, put it in the iciug pot, and finish the same as all other ices. CURRANT JELLY (1). Set on the fire in a sugar pan a pint of smooth claiified sugar; when it boils put in a quart of picked red currants, in which let them boil for an hour. Be careful to skim them well, and at times add a little cold water to raise the scum. When boiled enough run the liquor through a sieve into a basin, ia which you have squeezed three lemons; then put in some isinglass, and set your jelly in a mould to ice as usual. CURRANT JELLY (2). For this purpose the ripest red currants should be taken, as the white are not so good for jelly ; crush them, and press out all the juice into a glazed pan ; cover it very closely, and set it in a cold place for six days ; then with great care remove the thick skin which covers the juice, and pour it into another vessel, throwing away what remains at the bottom. When the juice is perfectly clear weigh it, and for each pound take i lb. of crushed sugar; put them on the fire together, and much scum will soon rise, which must all be taken off; let it remain on the fire for about an hour, and then try it as follows :—Put a small quantity on a very cold plate, and if when it cools it becomes thick and of proper consistence take the pan from the fire; if it is not let it remain till that is the case. Pour the jelly whilst hot, and the glasses must be quite cold before you cover them with paper. CURRANT JELLY DUMPLINGS. Take a piece of nice rich paste, and roll it out rather thin; then take some currant jelly, spread it over the paste, and roll it up ; roll it in a cloth, and tie it at each end ; boil it an hour, and then serve. CURRANT JELLY (without Fire). Press the juice from your currants through a sieve; weigh it, and to every pound put 1 lb. of powder sugar; stir them together well, pass it through a straining bag, and let it stand a little; then put it into pots, and expose it to the sun for two days. CURRANT JELLY (with Raspberries). Take 7 lbs. of fine ripe red currants, 3 lbs. of white, and 2 lbs. of white raspberries; press them through a very close horsehair sieve ; pour the juice on 9 lbs. of double-refined sugar broken in small pieces; place the whole on a brisk fire, taking care to remove the scum as soon as it appears. When the boilings follow each other very quickly take out the skimmer (which should be of copper). ICUR [ 388 ] CUR Btir it, and let the jelly fall from it. On quitting the skimmer it ought to fall like treacle; if it does so it is sufficiently done. This jelly should be rose-coloured. By making it entirely of red currants and red raspberries the colour of the jelly will be red. CURRANT JELLY, VIOLET. Mix 2 lbs. of black currants with 10 lbs. of red currants; press out the juice, and pour it on 9 lbs. of fine sugar. Make your jelly the same way as rose- coloured currant jelly. CURRANT JELLY WATER. Take two large spoonsful of currant jelly, and mix it with a little warm water; then put a gill of syrup, squeeze two or three lemons in, and let the rest be water; taste, and make it to your palate, putting a little cochineal in to make it a fine colour; strain it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. CURRANT MARMALADE. Strip your currants off from the bunches, and soak them in boiling water until they break; then take them oS the fire, lay them on a sieve to drain, and when they are cold pass them through the same sieve to clear off the seeds ; then dry them over the fire till you bring your sugar to the blow, or soujfie, allowing as much sugar as the fruit weighs; mix all well together, and simmer it over the fire some time; then put the marmalade into pots. CURRANT PASTE. Well wash some currants, put them into a preserving pan, bruise them, and with a little water boil them to a pulp ; then press out the juice, and to every pound take 20 ozs. of loaf sugar; boil it to crack, or casse, take it from the fire, and put in the paste; then heat it over the fire, take off the scum, and put it into your paste pots or glasses; then dry and finish the same as other pastes. CURRANT PASTILS. Take i lb. of pounded loaf sugar on a plate; then a quantity of currants, which squeeze through a sieve. When that is done add the juice to the sugar till it makes a paste as clear and thick as you think proper. CURRANT PUDDING. Take lib. of currants, 1 lb. of suet, 5 eggs, 4 spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of ginger, a little powder sugar, and a little salt; boil for three hours. CURRANT, RED, CHEESE. Take the seeds from 1 lb. of very sweet red currants and i lb. of raspberries ; press them through a fine sieve ; mix with the juice i lb. of fine sugar and 6 drachms of isinglass. Having put it in the pan with ice, when it begins to set stir in a plate of whipped cream, and finish as directed for Coffee Cheese CURRANT, RED, JELLY. Strip off the currants, put them in a jar, set the jar in a kettle of hot water, and let it boil an hour; then throw the currants and juice into a fine lawn sieve, press out all the juice, and to every pint of juice put a pound of double- refined sugar; put it into a preserving pan, set it over a charcoal fire, and keep stimng till it is a jelly, which you will know by taking a little out to cool. Be careful to take off the scum as soon as it rises, and when it is jellied and very clear pour it into glasses. When cold cut round pieces of paper that will just cover the jelly dipped in brandy, and put white paper over the glasses, twisting it round the top. CURRANT SHRUB. To 5 pints of cur- rant juice, either red or white, put H\h. of loaf sugar. When dissolved add to it 1 gallon of rum or bi'andy, and clear it through a flannel bag. CURRANT SYRUP. Put 5 lbs. or 6 lbs. of red and 2 lbs. of white currants, with 2 pottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush them, press the juice through it into a pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment. In a week's time pass the juice through a straining bag, and, having clai-ified it and boiled to souffle 4 lbs. of sugar, put the juice to it, and boil them together once ; skim, and take it from the fire. It is necessary that the currant juice should ferment, to prevent its becoming a jelly in the bottles. CURRANT TART. Pick your currants from the stalks carefully, and, having lined a dish with puff paste, strew powder sugar over the bottom of the dish; then put the fruit, sugar, and so on, in alternate layers till your dish is full; cover and bake it. Cur- rant tart is much improved by adding either raspberries or mulberries to the currants. CURRANT TARTLETS. Having taken the seeds from 1 lb. of fine ripe currants, mix- them in a pan with i lb. of powder sugar, and put them into the tartlets made as usual. When baked make a thin jelly with Jib. of crushed currants and 2 ozs. of powder sugar, with which the tartlets should be masked. CURRANT WATER. Pick Iilb. of currants and ^ lb. of raspberries, both quite ripe ; crush them, press the juice through a sieve, and put to it a quart of water and -J lb. of sugar; let it stand half an hour; then pass it through a napkin, pour it into decanters, and set them in iced water. CURRANT WATER ICE. Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into. a basin, and add to it the juice of two lemons, half a gill of syrup, and a pint of water; then freeze it richly. CURRANT WINE (1). Take 16 lbs. o,f currants and 3 gallons of water; break the currants with your hands in the water, and strain the liquor off; put to it 14 lbs. of fine sugar, strain[ 389 ] CUR CUR it into the vessel, and add a imit of brandy and a pint of raspberries. Stop it down, and let it stand three months. CURRANT WINE (2). Take 30 lbs. of either red or white currants, and an equal quantity of black currants and small cherries not stoned, and leaving on the stalks ; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them with a laige stick; then boil half a quartern of juniper berries in five or six pints of water, to which add ^ lb. or 1 lb. of honey, to make the juniper berries ferment. When they have fermented mix thera with the juice of the fruits ; stir them together two or three times during twenty-four hours, then fill up the cask with water, and close it. This quantity of fruit will make 150 bottles of excellent wine. If you desire to make it stronger put in a pint or two of brandy. CURRANTS : To Ice. Take fresh currants in bunches, and have ready the white of an egg well beaten to a froth ; dip them in it, lay them abroad, sift double-refined sugar pretty thickly over them, and let them drv in a stove or oven. CURRANTS, BLACK (Ratafia of). Take ]^ gallon of brandy, 1 quart of river water, 2 lbs. of black currants, 3 lbs. of crushed sugar, 1 lb. of bitter cherries, 6 ozs. of black cuiTant leaves, and 1 drachm of cinnamon or cloves ; bruise the leaves, fruit, and spice, and then put them into the brandy to infuse for a month ; dissolve the sugar in the water, and when the ratafia is drawn off mix the syrup with it; then filter and bottle it. CURRANTS, CANpiED. Boil the fruit in clarified sugar for preserving, take it out of the syrup, and drain it upon a sieve; sift over it through a lawn sieve till quite white pounded loaf sugar; place it in a cool oven, and turn and dust it with sugar till dry. CURRANTS, GROCERS'. These are really a variety of grape, and the vine that produces them is known to gardeners as the Zante or Black Corinth. Currant, in fact, is a corrup- tion of the word Corinth. For storing new carrants should be purchased, which they may be in October and through the winter. CURRANTS, PRESERVED. Take the seeds and stalks from whatever quantity of currants you intend to use, of which a fourth part must be white currants; put them into a preserving pan with a glass of water, and let them boil up until the fruit bursts; then strain the juice twice. Clarify and boil to crack, or casse, some sugar (an equal weight to the fruit), and pour the j nice on it; boil them together a quarter of an hour, and, having skimmed it well, pour it into pots. CURRANTS PRESERVED DRY. Stone your currants, and tie them up in bunches; to every pound of currants boil 2 lbs. of sugar till it blows very strong; dip in tlie currants, let them boil verj' fast till the sugar rises almost to the top of the pan, let them settle, skim them, and set them by till the next day ; then drain them and lay them out, taking care to spread the sprigs that they may not dry clogged together; dust them very much, and dry them in a hot stove. CURRANTS PRESERVED IN JELLY. Stone your currants, clip off the black tops, and clip them from the stalks ; to every pound boil Of lbs. of sugar till it blows very strong ; slip in the currants, give them a quick boil, take them from the fire, and let them settle a little; then give them another boil, and put in a pint of currant jelly, drawn as directed, till you see the jelly will flake from the skimmer; then remove the jelly from the fire, let it settle a little, then skim, and put it into glasses. CURRANTS PRESERVED LIQUID IN BUNCHES. For this purpose either red or white currants may be used, only be careful not to mix them, and choose those bunches which have the largest currants; take out the seeds very carefully with the nib of a pin ; boil clarified sugar (1 lb. to each pound of fruit) to ball, or hoiilet, take the pan from the fire, put in the currants, stir them with a skimmer, taking care tliat the fruit does not burst, cover the pan, and give the whole one boil ; sliim the preserve lightly, aiad put it into glasses; do not cover them till the next day. CURRANTS, PRESERVED (for Tartb). Put 1 lb. of sugar into a preserving pan for every \ \ lb. of currants, with a sufficient quantity of currant juice to dissolve the sugar; when it boils skim it, put in the currants, and boil them till they are very clear; put them into a jar, cover them with brandy paper, and keep them in a diy place. CURRANTS, RATAFIA OF. Take 2 quarts of brandy, 2 quarts of currant juice, 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, 1 drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the same of cloves. Take the seeds from the currants before you press out the juice, rectify the brandy, and then add the cinnamon, cloves, and juice. When it has stood a month draw it off, dissolve the sugar in it, and then filter the ratafia. CURRANTS, RED (Preserved in Bxjnches). Having stoned your currants tie six or seven bunches together with a thread to a piece of split deal about the length of a finger; put double-refined sugar, equal in weight to your currants, into a preserving pan with a little water, and boil it till the sugar flies; then put the currants in, give them a boil up, and cover them till the next day; then take them out, and either dry them or put thera in glasses, with the syrup boiled up with a little of the juice ofCUP. CUR [ 390 ] red currants ; put brandy paper over them, tie them closely down with another paper, and set them in a dry place. CURRIES. The curries usually presented at our tables in England bear no other resemblance to those of India than in that of name. They are abominable compounds of cumin and coriander seeds, turmeric powder, ginger, and Cayenne pepper, wrought up into a mass floating in a greasy liquid, unless the latter is absorbed by rice boiled to a pulp being placed in the dish with the curiy. In India the food of the natives is rice; the curry is a sort of savoury accompaniment to render the rice palatable. Here, on the contrary, the mis- taken notions of our " pi'ofessed cooks " have led them to suppose that rice is a sort of sauce for curry, which must therefore be eaten with a table-spoonful of it in the gravy. Thus English curries are nauseous messes, and out of those houses whose occupants have some knowledge of India ai'e not to be tasted. There is also in this country a sort of prejudice attached to curry, which assigns to it only certain specific meats as deserving of the honours of the curry powder. The most usual curry is that of rabbits, then veal, then calf's head, and then, but more rarely, chicken and mutton chops ; but the truth is that all possible meats make a good curry, though in India some of the older votaries of good living have a leaning towards a breast of Bengal mutton by way of a change. Hare curry is extremely good; but the best curries, in the judgment of those of most refined taste, are tho fish curries. The prawn curry, the oyster curry, the curry made of lobster, crawfish, sole, cod, whiting, haddock, or halibut, and though last, not least, the curry made of sturgeon, are all of high ex- cellence, very wholesome, and deserving of the best attention of the refined feeder, who can use and not abuse, who can enjoy without commit- ting excess. There are to be found distributed among the English " professed cooks " some ten or twelve thousand recipes for making curry powder, all being modifications of the same mixture, and all containing the same ingredients except car- damom seeds (which, on account of the expense, are to be found only in the curries of the wealthy), which ought to form one of the principal in- gredients of the dish. In India the cooks have no curry powder; they pound and mix the various seeds and s,pices as they require them. In England much stress is laid upon curry powder brought from India; but this is a mere delusion. For use on board ship bottles of curry powder are made up in India, because to take the unprepared seeds would be inconvenient; but very frequently this powder is detestable, though made in India; and on board thecountrysliipstha curries are sometimes not eatable, unless you can obtain soire of the salt-fish curries of the lascars, or native seamen, or induce any of t!:e latter to make you a curry from the ingredients they have in store for themselves. Thus, then, the idea that curry powder brought from India is preferable is perfect nonsense. It can be made here just as good, allowing for the want of freshness in the seeds to form it, and for the difference between the juice of the fresh turmeric root, and the nasty dry powder which you are here obliged to substitute for it, all wliich disadvantages attach equally to the powder brought from India. Turmeric powder is here used to excess, and from it is derived that particularly nauseous taste of which all well-informed cun-y eaters complain. Again, the curry is made so hot with Cayenne pepper that few can eat it without blistering the tongue. This is another mistake. In India there is the mild curry and the hot curry. The former contains no Cayenne pepper or chilli ; the latter is warmed, not with Cayenne pepper, but with the green chilli, which is always pre- ferable. The choice of these curries is a mere matter of taste, for the stimulus of the seeds will generally be found sufficient for the stomachs of those who prefer the mild. Another thing to be observed is the addition of vegetables to curry when made either of fish or of meat. Nothing is nicer than a cucumber cut into bits, or the vegetable marrows sold at Covent Garden. Both are particularly good in lobster curry. They must be added a sufficient time before the curry is ready, to admit of their being thoroughly done. In lobster or crawfish cui-ry they should be put in soon after the fish. To- matoes, or love-apples, are almost indispensable to make first-rate curry; but great care must be taken not to use too many, as the acid must not be very predominant. Cocoa-nut is one of the most successful additions to curry, which ought never to be made without it; or, when it is not to be had, some substitute, such as Brazil nut, which answers the purpose very well. To make lobster curry let the meat of the lobster be taken out and cut into pieces not too small; and, if it be a hen lobster, let the spawn be pounded in a mortar and rubbed up with a little butter ; then take three or four spoonsful of curry powder, dry it in a plate before the fire, and mix it with the lobster, together with a clove of garlic chopped finely and some salt. Take the milk out of a cocoa-nut, then cut the nut open, and rasp very finely about one-third of the meat. Have also your vegetables ready. Put a stewpan on the fire with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and fry in this an onion cut into thin slices until it is brown; addCUR CUR [ 391 ] now the lobster or curry powder, and a good lump of fresh butter; let the whole fry seven or eight minutes ; throw in the milk of the cocoa-nut, together with a portion of the nut itself that has been rasped, and a wine-glassful of water or broth; mix it well with the curry, and let the whole simmer over a slow fire. In a few minutes put in the vegetables and tomatoes, and let the curry continue to simmer until it is done. If yoa have no tomatoes * squeeze in the juice of half a lemon -^'lien the curry is nearly done. The crawfish curry is prepared in the same manner. To make prawn curry the fish must be ob- tained raw, which is very difficult in London. The process is exactly the same as in making lobster curry. In other fish curries the fish must be raw and cut into small fillets. To curry meat the process is somewhat longer, though essentially the same. The meat must be cut into small bits and browned in the stew- pan before it is mixed with the curry powder. The addition of vegetables is always an im- provement, and cucumber or vegetable marrow will be found the best. A curry may he made entirely of vegetahles. Cauliflowers, broccoli, French beans, cabbage, and even potatoes may be used for this purpose ; but a couple of tlie large mild green capsicums should be added, as they considerably enhance the flavour of the other vegetables. One of the greatest delicacies among the curry tribe is the oyster curry, a dish more especially celebrated at Madras. This delicacy is prepared by draining the oysters before tl-ey are mixed with the curry powder, and using instead of water the liquor that they yield. The rest of the process is the same as for other curry, though the cocoa-nut may be omitted at the discretion of the cook. The cocoa-nut is an improvement to every curry, but is less needed in this than in any other. To the oyster we may add the muscle curry, which is dressed much in the same way, only the muscles must be put on the fire with a little water to open them, and the liquor they yield must be used instead of water. In separating the muscles from the shells great care must be taken to remove the little crabs often found in the muscles, as they are poisonous. One of the most essential accompaniments to good curry is good rice properly boiled—a consummation very seldom effected in this country. There is much talk about Patna rice, not one grain of which is ever really sold in London. The common Bengal rice, prepared for foreign consumption, or the store rice, is hard, tasteless, and unpalatable. The best rice to be had in London is the American rice, brought hither in the husk or in paddy, as it is termed, and cleansed by a new process. It must be boiled in the following manner :—Wash it well in cold water, and dry it in a clean napkin or tablecloth; boil some water with a little salt in it; strew the rice into the boiling water, and when it begins to swell check the boiling with a tea-cupful of cold water, and con- tinue to do so as it boils up until the rice is cracked. Before it begins to fall into pap, and while the grains are yet separate from each other, throw it into a cullender, and let it dry before the fire. It will then be fit for the table. CURRY. Cut fowls or rabbits into joints, and wash them clean ; put 2 ozs. of butter into a stewpan. When it is melted put in the meat and two middling-sized onions sliced; let them ba over a smart fire till they are of a light brown colour, and then put in half a pint of broth ; let it simmer twenty minutes. Putin a basin one or two table-spoonsful of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix it smoothly with a little cold watei', put it into the stewpan, and shake it well about till it boils : let it simmer twenty minutes longer, then take out the meat, and rub the sauce through a tamis, or sieve ; add to it two table-spoonsful of cream or milk, and give it a boil up; then pour it into a dish, lay the rneat over it, and send up the rice in a separate dish. CURRY BALLS. Beat up the yolk of a hard egg with a small piece of butter, season it with curry powder, mix it with bread crumbs, and, having made as many balls as yoa require, boil them a minute or two before you make use of them. CURRY POWDER. Take 13 ozs. of cori- ander seed, 2 ozs. of black pepper, 1 oz. of Cayenne pepper, 3 ozs. of cumin seed, and 6 ozs. of pale-coloured turmeric, the whole pounded very line; set them to dry perfectly before the fire, turning them frequently ; mix them well, and when cold put it into bottles, and if kept in a dry place it will continue good for years. CURRY SAUCE. Put J lb. of butter into a saucepan, with a tea-spoonful of safi'ron in powder and five small pimentos crushed ; make your butter quite hot, and then add five large spoonsful of veloute; stir the sauce well, and serve it without either skimming or straining. A little grated nutmeg may also be added. CURRY SOUP. Take a large fowl or two chickens, and cut them into joints ; mince two lai'ge onions, and fry them with the fowl in a little fresh butter in a stewpan. Have the soup ready, and fill up the pan sufficiently for a tureen ; mix two table-spoonsful of curry and two of flour with a little cold soup; add to it the other soup, with some cold rice, and let all stewt 392 ] CUR together till the fowl is tender; then season with salt, white pepper, and Cayenne. The fowl should be served up with the soup. CUBVATURE OF THE SPINE. Upon this, perhaps,morewant of unanimity of practice exists among medical men than upon any other disease or defect to which the human body is subject. Some employ mechanical supports, some gym- nastic exercises, others place the patient upon her back, a fourth set keep her upon her stomach, and we might enumerate other eccentric modes of treatment. It would be in vain for us either to endeavour to reconcile these contradictions or to select from among them, bijt we shall content ourselves by quoting the following from Mr. Abernethys lecture upon the subject. " Distortions of the vertebral column are not diseases, they are deformities. It is custon^ary to attribute them as arising from the same state of health which rickets arise from, but I do not think that that is a fair way of viewing the sub- ject. Slight things will produce a deviation from the proper direction of the vertebral column. You never saw any one who had a complaint in the hip who was not distorted in the back. The standing upon one leg will occasion a distortion in the back. I cannot stand upon my left leg, for instance, upon any other terms than those of inclining to the right; and if I am to continue in this posture, such is the constructure of the back substance, as to occasion a springing out and augmenting of bulk on the one side, so that this is a cause rendering a temporary distortion, and in continuing tc recline in that way the dis- tortion becomes permanent. Now, therefore, the habit of standing on one leg will occasion young people to grow awry. If I were to lean over as it were upon my right shoulder what would be the consequence ? Why, to balance the weight of my body I must twist my spine and incline the loins to the left side, and therefore cause a de- viation to the left side. Now, suppose a curva- ture to take place, and that that curvature was on the right side, if the weight were put on it is it possible that the head could be supported in a straight line from the pelvis? It is not possible; and the first curvature induces another curvature, and the next another, and so they go on, and they are all consequences of one original curve. It is very curious to attend to what slight causes will sometimes lead to the original curve, and causes which we do not easily perceive. " In my own family a child young and active —and I do not see those curvatures happening except where there -is some constitutional dis- order—I say, a girl of this kind became awry. I saw the child when I had an opportunity, and I observed that she had got one shoulder-strap very often down, which she was continually pulling up; and I said to her mother, ' If you allow that to go on, thau shoulder will heconiA warped as sure as you 're alive. Let the gown he made in another way, and don't let her always be twisting herself to keep up that shoulder-strap.' The mother said, ' Oh! don't take any notice of it, and let it pass on for a time.' Then I began to abuse the fashions that had been the cause of those shoulder-straps being made in such a way ; but in the course of a month the reason appeared why the shoulder- strap did not stop on that shoulder—it appeared that that shoulder had sunk down about an inch lower than the other. I then told her to walk before me, and then to stop, and I observed her particularly, and I found that she was in the habit of standing and resting always on one leg. I then began to ask her if there were any sores about her feet, any sores about her toes, any pains in her leg, or anything wrong with it, and. she said no. I said, ' I should like to see you hop : hop round the room, and then stand.' She did it, and did it very well. ' Now,' said I, ' hop round the room on the other leg. She attempted it, and she took a few hops, and then she was obliged to walk, because that leg was not capable of supporting her. She had been clearly in the habit of standing on the one leg, and by having disused the other it became a weak limb. Now, by setting her frequently to hop round the room on the weak leg, very fre- quently until she could hop on it as well as on the other, both shoulders became of the same height, and the shoulder-strap of her gown never slipped off again ; but I am quite sure she would have been awry if she had not lived in a sur- geon's house. ." I tell parents that I have any concern with that they must avoid all the causes which have produced the original curvature. I try to suggest what those curvatures are, and then I tell them that they are to lie down as much as possible, and to take the weight off the pillar which has yielded, because, if the column has yielded, whatever weight is placed upon it will con- siderably increase the curve. I hear medical men say you had better put weights on your head and carry them about with you, because, say they, people who carry large weights on their heads or shoulders, such as milk-pails, have straight backs ; but I say weight on the head must be very injurious, therefore I tell them to lie down, to avoid the causes which in- crease it, and to lie in a horizontal way; and many say you should lie in a manner so as to extend the vertebral column. That can never be done. Lie down, therefore, in a horizontal way, and you take off the weight from the curve; but I would by no means deprive the patient from taking that degree of active exercise which is conducive to health, because I say there isCUR .[ 393 ] C TJ R eometliing wrong about those patients—there is something about them that induces muscular raucour or muscular irritability. It is an object to give all possible energy to their muscles ; it is an object, therefore, that they should have active exercise, and an object to give them all possible strength, that they may have the power of supporting the head and weight. Then I say lie down. But people will ask me, ' Can't you do anything more, sir?' and I must say, ' No, I don't know that I can, unless you choose to be gibbeted.' Thatissometimes done; itisafashion- able way of going to work, and is what I call gibbeting. This was first proposed by Mr. Vacher, and the plan is that of taking the weight of the*body from the pillar that supports it. A most horrible annoyance it is to the pa- tient; the pressure against the chin and the under part of the jaw is dreadful—it produces a thickening and ulceration of the ligament, where it is carried on as according to principle it ought to be. I cannot say I like this system at all, but T advise all my patients to avoid all causes which might affect the original curva- tures, to take off the weight by lying down, and so on ; but the child should not lie down in any constrained attitude. In a boarding school you will see the mistresses of the school having all the girls lying like a file of soldiers on boards turned horizontally, and there they lie for about half an hour. Tliat is a short time, but they can do nothing while they are lying in that position like corpses. Now, I maintain that they may do this on a rug or carpet, and I say. Why cannot your child lie down jn that way, which is the ancient fashion ? But to be sure the other is the more modem; but I know that weight on the upper parts of the body must tend greatly to increase the curves. I know, also, that people will become straight if the cause of the curves is removed, because I have found it to be so in the cases of distortion of the vertebrae from wry necks, as well as in other cases, by such treat- ment as I have been endeavouring to explain to you. " Mr. Hunter used tq say he was convinced that people got awry by the endeavours of parents to keep them straight; that parents were continually watching their children, and making them sjt in a particular attitude ; and that those children so watched, when unobserved, would naturally sink into another way of sitting to have a little ease. Besides, that in keeping in action one set of muscles, and not allowing the other to act at all, whereas every set of muscles should be kept in action. He said you do not see boys grow awry anything like so often as girls, nor yet girls in a low situation of life. I remember when there were stai/s to prevent this wryness, and stays you know are good things to let a person slip aside without that slipping being seen; and that went so far that 1 re- member the time when it was a bet that, upon an examination in an assembly of well brought up girls you would find not one girl among them straight, but that they had all a crick in the hip, or a slip in some part or other. I remember Mr. Hunter saying you should dress your chil- dren lightly and loosely, let them run about and exercise all their muscles equally, and then they will not grow awry. To this parents have a sort of objection, which is, that children will become round shouldered, and so on. Now, I have even endeavoured to refute that absurdity by saying, If children were allowed and suffered to do as they pleased the body would be formed according to that pattern which nature designed it should be. One cannot counteract nature. If the body be healthy it will be well formed, but it will grow according to nature. But, said Mr. Hun- ter, if it be necessary, from fashion and so on, to carry the person in a particular manner, this habit may be obtained at any period of life, and quoting this instance. You see a ploughboy while plodding away at the plough an awkward fellow; but he enlists; then he is put under drill of a sergeant, and then observe with what care and precision he marches after he has been under that sergeant for a time. Now, that shows that if the body is well formed it may carry any fashion ; but there is certainly no counteracting nature. " These are not diseases, but deformities, and yet points of great importance. In some of the cases there is no room for the lungs on one side of the chest. It is this which first attracts people's attention. ' Sir, I want to consult you on my daughter's case: her shoulder is growing out, or her breast is on one side.' 'Oh! the cause is in the distortion of the vertebral column ;' and that they cannot believe, but that you will find to be universally the fact, I believe. " Now I go to speak of curvatures from disease —curvatures produced by a diseased state of the vertebrae. The bodies of the vertebrse are of a spongy substance, the ends of the bones are also spongy, and scrofula may arise, and a curvature of the back produced from a bend forward; then where many of the vertebras are gone, one of the vertebrae sticks out and makes a very acute angle, and this angle, this sharp projection, is one cause of a surgeon's knowing the nature of the disease. Now, in the commencement of the disease the question is whether it begins in the bone or in the intervertebral substance. I really cannot tell; sometimes it is in the one, and some- times, in all probability, in the other. It is very rare that we have an opportunity of examining it at an early period, but when scrofula begins the disease goes on to ulceration, and the bodiesCU3 C 394 3 cus of the vertebra are crushed by weight. It is right to tell you, too, that you may have the disease without curvature, and you may have curvature without the disease. " Now as to the treatment. Unquestionably you must keep the patient still: motion of dis- eased parts is always exceedingly injurious ; the greatest good is done by keeping diseased parts in an absolutely confined state. Ease is not only good in counteracting the morbid action of the diseased bone, but in counteracting the dis- ordered action of the medulla spinalis itself, which is the cause of the disorder; and I believe 1 need not enlarge upon this, because it is obvious to common sense that ease is likely to be of efficient good; but in all scrofulous diseases a great deal depends upon the management of the patient's health. The correcting that state of health which gives rise to scrofulous actions must be considered a most important part of the treatment," CUSTARD. Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint of ci-eam and the yolks of five eggs well beaten. When the milk tastes of the seasoning sweeten it enough for the whole, and pour it into the cream, stir- ring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; then season with a large spoonful of peach water and two tea-spoonsful of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish your custards to be extremely rich put no milk, but a quart of cream. CUSTAED, ANGLO-FRENCH. Make a cream jpatissiere with a little vanilla in it, and when dried add of butter, powder sugar, and crushed bitter macaroons 6 ozs. each, J lb. of dry currants, and the same of stoned raisins, 2 ozs. of preserved cedrat cut in pieces, 4 drachms of crisped orange flowers, half a nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, and half a glass of white wine ; mix in the whites of twelve eggs whipped firmly, pour the preparation into a raised crust, and bake as usual. CUSTARD, BAKED. Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon. When cold take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rose and orange-flower water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; mix them well together, and bake them in china cups. CUSTARD, BEEST. Set a pint of beest, with a little cinnamon over the fii'e, add three bay leaves, and let it be boiling hot; then take it off, and have ready mixed, a spoonful of flour and the same of thick cream; pour the hot beest upon it by degrees, mix it well together, and sweeten it to your taste. You may bake it in either crusts or cups. CUSTARD, BOILED (1). Boil in a pint of milk five minutes lemon-peel, corianders. and cinnamon, a small quantity of each, six bitter almonds blanched and pounded, and 4 ozs. of loaf sugar; mix it with a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of six eggs, well beaten ; pass it through a hair sieve, stir it with a whisk over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, remove it from the fire, and continue to stir it till nearly cold ; add two table-spoonsful of brandy, fill the cups or glasses, and gi-ate nut- meg over. CUSTARD, BOILED (2). Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan, with the peel of a lemon cut very thin, a little grated nutmeg, a bay or laurel leaf, and a small stick of cinna- mon; set it on a quick fire, but,be careful it does not boil over. When it boilS^set it beside the fire, and simmer ten minutes ; break the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four eggs into a basin, and beat them well; then pour in the milk a little at a time, stirring it as quickly as possible to prevent the eggs curdling; set it on the fire again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; let it have just one boil; pass it through a tamis, or fine sieve. When cold add a little brandy or white wine as may be most agreeable to the eater's palate. Serve up in glasses or cups. Custards for baking are prepared as above, passed through a fine sieve; put them into cups, grate a little nutmeg over each, and bake them about fifteen or twenty minutes. CUSTARD OF CREAM. Prepare your custard as usual; fasten a paper band about four inches high round it, and fill it with a good cream jMtissiere, with rather less butter than usual. Bake it for three quarters of an hour; take off the paper, dorez it, sprinkle the top of the cream, and colour it with a salamander. CUSTARD, DURHAM. To a pint of cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and about one-third of a pint of mild strong ale; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it nearly boils; then pour it into a dish, in the bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread cut into square bits. CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line it com- pletely with paste, taking care that it takes all the form of the mould. Then take a sufficient quantity of apricots, peaches, plums, or any other fruit you please, and, having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, mix the fruit up with powder sugar, put it into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. When ready for table mask it with the syrup and kernels blanched and cut in halves. CUSTARD FRITTERS. Having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of bratidy, add a pint of ci'eam, sweeten it, and bake it in a small dish. When it is cold cut itcus [ 395 ] into quarters, and dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, and a little grated ginger; fry them in good lard or dripping, and when done strew grated sugar over them. CUSTARD, PARISIAN. Cut fifty sound apples into quarters (pared and cored), and put them into a saucepan, with ^ lb. of butter, J lb. of powder sugar, and a pot of apricot marmalade; put them over a moderate fire with coals on the saucepan lid, and let them remain a few minutes, that they may soften, but not break. Have ready a preparation of rice boiled with ^ lb. of butter, the same of sugar, on which have been grated the peels of four lemons, a pinch of salt, eight or nine glasses of milk, and thickened with the yolks of ten eggs. Make a raised crust like the Portuguese Custard, in which pour the fourth part of the rice (cold); on that lay forty-eight quarters of apples; over them pour the same quantity of rice, then the apples, rice, &c., re- serving the finest quarters for the top ; bake in a brisk oven for between two and three hours. When done mask the top with apple jelly or api'icot or currant marm.alade, and the crust with apricot marmalade also. CUSTARD, PLAIN. Take a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, four bay leaves, and some mace; boil them all together; then well beat up twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put them into a pan ; bake or boil them, stirring them all one way till they are of a proper thick- ness ; boil your spice and leaves first, and when the milk is cold mix in your eggs and boil it. You may leave out the spice, and only use the bay leaves, or, in the room of them, four or five bitter almonds. CUSTARD, PORTUGUESE. Choose about a hundred fine apples, from which select three dozen of the best; scoop out the core as you trim them, and put them into a saucepan with just water enough to cover them, adding the juice of two lemons and two spoonsful of powder sugar. When scalded put them into another saucepan, with | lb. of powder sugar, the peel of two lemons, and a sufficient quantity of water to boil them. In the meantime cut the rest of the apples into quarters, and make them into a marmalade, to which add a pot of apricot mar- malade and J lb. of fresh butter; pass this through a sieve. The whole apples must be taken from the fire while they are yet firm. Make a raised crust about nine inches in dianieter, and five or six in height, in which put a fourth part of the marmalade; lay a dozen of the whole apples on that, having filled each apple with apricot marmalade ; cover them with the mar- malade, and so again with the remaining fruit and marmalade ; tie a thick paper round the crust, and put it into a brisk oven. In an hour s time cover the top, and then let it remain two hours longer. When done mask the crust with a very transparent apricot marmalade, and the top with a clear apple jelly. This custard may be gar- nished in various ways according to taste. CUSTARD IN PRESERVED ORANGES. Fill from tlireo to five oranges with custard, and garnish with a little sweetmeat, either wet or dry. This makes a veiy pretty dish CUSTARD PUDDING (I). Mix a pint of cream with six eggs well beatsn, two spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg graied, and salt and sugar to taste; butter a cloth, and pour in your batter; tie it up, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for .an hour and a half. Serve with melted butter for sauce. CUSTARD PUDDING (2). P.oil a pint of thick cream with a bit of cinnamon in it, and put to it J lb. of sugar. When it is cold put to it the yolks of five eggs well beaten, and stir it over the fire till it is pretty thick, but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold butter a cloth well, dust it with flour, tie the custard up in it very closely, and boil it three quarters of au hour. When you take it up put it into a basin to cool a little, untie the cloth, lay the dish on the basin, and turn it up. You will break the pudding if you do not take the cloth off carefully. Grate over it a little sugar, put melted butter and a little wine in a boat, and send it to table. CUSTARD SOUFFLfiS. Put 2 ozs. of rice flour and 2 ozs. of butter into a sauce- pan ; mix them together well, and add | lb. of powder sugar and two glasses of cream, in which a small quantity of vanilla has been in- fused. Put this mixture over a moderate fire, and boil it like a cream padssiere; then put to it the yolks of four eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream, and the four whites beaten firmly. Make the paste for the moulds the same as Petits Pates a la Bechamel, and when half baked pour in your ^preparation and finish them. When done they should not stand a minute before they are sent to table. These custard souffles may be made with any fruit, and flavoured with any ingredient you may think proper to use. CUSTARD, SWISS. Put nine glasses of milk and ^ lb. of fresh butter into a saucepan, and wlien it begins to boil take it from the fire, and add to it from 18 to 20 ozs. of sifted flour; stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a smooth paste, when it must be dried a little over the fire, In about five minutes put it into another vessel, and mix with it 6 ozs. of butter and 1 lb. of Gruyere cheese grated; add after- wards a spoonful of mignonette, two of powder sugar, and four eggs ; mix them well together, a7id then put iu four more eggs, and six yolks,cus CUT [ 390 ] ^Ib. of Gruyere cheese cut in dice. When the whole is thoroughly incorporated, if the paste be not sufficiently moist (it should be of the consistence of the choux), add an egg or two; then whip six whites of eggs firmly, and put it in, with six spoonsful of Chantilly cream. Pour this preparation while hot into a raised crust at least ten inches in height, and bake it for two hours or two hours and a half in a moderate oven. Serve it hot. CUSTAED, TURKISH. Put IJlb. of good rice into cold water over the fire, and when it boils take it off and drain it well; then put it into a large saucepan, with twelve glasses of good milk, 1 lb. of butter, the same of sugar, ou which have been rasped the peels of four oranges or cedrats, and a grain of salt; put the sauce- pan over a moderate fire to swell the rice, taking care that none of the grains burst; stir it a little, and when done add to it 2 lbs. of dry currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and some spoonsful of Chantilly cream, after which mix in the twelve whites wliipped firmly. Prepare the crust in the usual way, and bake it in a moderate oven two hours and a half. When ready for table brown it with a salamander. CUSTAED, TURNING OUT. Mix with the well-beaten yolks of four eggs a pint of new milk, i oz. of isinglass dissolved, or enough of calf's foot stock to stiffen it, and two laurel leaves; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; pour it into a basin, stir it till a little cooled, and then pour it into cups to turn out when quite cold. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little cream, add it to nearly |-lb. of brown sugar burnt, strain it through a sieve, and when cold pour it round the custards. CUSTARDS, SMALL. Put 1 oz. of sifted flour into a small saucepan with an egg, and stir it over the fire till it becomes a very smooth paste; mix with it six yolks and a whole egg, i lb. of powder sugar, six macaroons crushed, and a grain of salt; stir it well for some time, and then add ten mouldsful of cream, -| oz. of crisped orange flowers, or the rind of an orange, lemon, or cedrat. When your moulds are lined with puff paste put in each a piece of butter the size of a filbert; then pour in the prepara- tion, and put them in a brisk oven; serve them quite hot. These quantities will make eighteen. CUTCHEEEE, INDIAN. Steep a pint of split peas, and add a large tea-cupful of rice, an onion, ginger, pepper, mace, and salt; boil till the peas and rice 'are swelled and tender, but not clammy, and stir them with a fork till the water is wasted. Serve up in a dish garnished with hard eggs and whole boiled onions. The stirring with a fork is to prevent the grains being broken. CUTCHEREE SOUP, AMERICAN. Pre- pare and pulp some of the nicest dry green peas ; put them into any nicely seasoned white soup, with coriander, mint, or any preferred sweet herb; to 1 lb, of peas add 2 ozs. of rice, and finish it with egg and cream, or keep out the egg and add curry powder; or make it of brown soup, with fried onions, allspice, and sage, and thicken it with blood. Dry rice must be sei'ved with all curries. CUTLETS. See Mutton and Veal. CUTLETS, MAINTENON. Cut sllceg about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg; dip them in a seasoning of bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjorarb, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them. Serve them with melted butter, and a little mushroom catsup mixed with it. CUTLETS, SAUCE FOR. When the cutlets are taken out of the frying-pan leave a table-spoonful of the fat behind, or put into it instead about 1 oz. of butter; add as much flour as will make a paste; rub these well together till they are browned, then put in as much boiling water as will reduce the whole to the thickness of cream, and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup or browning; boil all together a few minutes, and pour it through a sieve into a dish with the cutlets. CUTLETS EN SURPRISE. Take some puff paste, roll it out to a moderate thickness, and cut it into pieces the form of small hearts ; lay some apricot marmalade on them, turn them over, press the edges together, lay them on a tin, and bake them; cut some common paste into bands so a.s to resemble mutton bones; bake, but do not colour them. When the cutlets are done dorez them; crush some mush- rooms, which sprinkle over instead of bread; make a skewer red-hot, and lay it on the cutlets to imitate the marks of the gridiron. Dish them en consommee, with the bones placed in proper order, and serve. CUTS AND WOUNDS. No part of medi- cine has been more mistaken than the treatment or cure of wounds. Mankind in general believe that certain herbs, ointments, and plasters are possessed of wonderful healing powers, and imagine that no one can be cured without the application of them. It is, however, a fact that no external application whatever contributes towards the cure of a wound any other way than by keeping the parts soft and clean, and defending them from the external air, which may be as effectually done by dry lint as by the most pompous applications, while it is exempt from many of the bad consequences attending them.CUT C 897 ] CUT Tne same observation holds with respect to ir.ternal applications. These only promote the cure of wounds as far as they tend to prevent a fever, or to remove any cause that might obstruct or impede the operations of nature. It is nature alone that cures wounds. All that art can do is to remove obstacles, and to put the parts in such a condition as is the most favour- able to nature's efforts. With this simple view we shall consider the treatment of wounds, and endeavour to point out such steps as ought to be taken to facilitate their cure. The first thing to be done when a person has received a wound is to examine whether any foreign body be lodged in it, as wood, stone, iron, lead, glass, dirt, bits of cloth, or the like. These, if possible, if it can be conveniently done, ought to be extracted, and the wound cleaned before any dressings are applied. When that cannot be effected with safety, on account of the patient's weakness or loss of blood, they must be suffered to remain in the wound, and afterwards extracted when he is more able to bear it. When a wound penetrates into any of the cavities of the body, as the breast, the bowels, &c., or when any considerable blood-vessel is cut, a skilful surgeon ought immediately to be called, otherwise the patient may lose his life. But sometimes the discharge of blood is so great that if it be not stopped the patient may die, even before a surgeon^ though at no great distance, can arrive. In this case something must be done by those who are present. If the wound be in any of the limbs the bleeding may generally be stopped by applying a tight ligature or bandage round the member, a little above the wound. The best method of doing this is to put a strong broad garter or silk handkerchief round the part, but so slack as easily to admit a strong piece of stick to be put under it, which must be twisted, in the same manner as a coun- tryman does a cart-rope to secure his loading, till the bleeding stops. Whenever this is the case he must take care to twist it no longer, as straining it too much might occasion an inflam- mation of the parts, and endanger a gangrene. In parts where this bandage cannot be ap- plied various other methods may be tried to stop the bleeding, as the application of styptics, astringents, &c. Cloths dipped in a solution of blue vitriol in water, or the styptic water of the dispensatories, may be applied to the woimd. When these cannot be obtained strong spirits of wine may be used. Some recommend the agaric of the oak as preferable to any of the ether styptics; and, indeed, it deserves consider- able encomiums. It is easily obtained, and ought to be kept in every family in case of accidents. A piece of it must he laid upon the wound, and covered with a good deal of lint, above which a bandage may be applied so tightly as to keep it firmly on. Though spirits, tinctures, and hot balsams may be used in order to stop the bleeding from small vessels when it is excessive, they are improper at other times. They do not promote, but retard the cure, and often change a simple wound into an ulcer. People imagine, because hot balsams congeal the blood, and seem, as it were, to solder up the wound, that they therefore heal it; but this is only a deception. They may, indeed, stop the flowing blood by searing the mouths of the vessels; but, by rendering the parts callous, they obstruct the cure. In slight wounds, which do not penetrate much deeper than the skin, the best application is a bit of the common black sticking-plaster. This keeps the sides of the wound together, and prevents the air from hurting it, which is all that is necessary. When a wound penetrates deeply the edges of it, if a clean incised wound, ought to be brought in contact, and retained in that position by means of slips of adhesive plaster, when in all probability it will become glued together by what surgeons term the ad- hesive inflammation. If a deep irregular wound from blunted instruments it is not safe to keep the Hps quite close; this keeps in the matter, and is apt to make the wound fester. In this case the best way is to fill the wound with soft lint, commonly called caddis; it, however, must not be stuffed in too hard, otherwise it will do hurt. The lint may be covered with a cloth dipped in oil, or spread with the common wax plaster or poultice, and the whole must be kept on by a proper bandage as circumstances may point out. The first dressing onght to continue on for at least two days, after which it may be removed, and fresh lint applied as before. If any part of the first dressing sticks so closely as not to be removed with ease or safety to the patient, it may be allowed to continue, and fresh lint dipped in sweet oil laid over it. This will soften it so as to make it come off easily at the next dressing; afterwards the wound may be dressed twice a day in the same manner till it is quite healed. Those who are fond of salves or ointments may, after the wound has become very superficial, dressit with the yeWovibasilicum; and if fungous, or what is called proud flesh should rise in the wound, it may be checked by mixing with the ointment a little burnt alum or red precipitate of mercury, or by touching the proud flesh with caustic, or it may be kept down by a compress. When a wound is greatly inflamed the most proper application is a poultice of bread and[ 398 ] C YD CUT milk, softened with a little sweet oil or fresh butter. This must be applied instead of a plaster, and should be changed twice a day. If the wound be large, and there is reason to fear an inflammation, the patient should be kept on a very low diet. He must abstain from animal food, strong liquors, and everything that is of a heating nature. If he be of a full habit, and has lost but little blood from the wound, he must be bled, and if the symptoms be urgent the operation may be repeated; but when the patient has been greatly weakened by loss of blood from the wound it will be dangerous to bleed him, even though a fever should ensue. Nature should never be too far exhausted. It is always more safe to allow her to struggle with the disease in her own way than to sink the patient's strength by excessive evacuations. Wounded persons ought to be kept perfectly qiiiet and easy. Everything that rulSes the mind or moves the passions, as love, anger, fear, excessive joy, &c., is very hurtful. The body should be kept gently open either by laxative clysters or by a cool vegetable diet, as roasted apples, stewed prunes, boiled spinach, and such-like. When a vein has been divided the danger is very little increased, the bleeding in general being easily stopped by pressure. We know that a vein has been injured by the blood being of a dark crimson colour, and coming away, not in jets, but in a continued stream. All that is required is to bring the lips of the wound to- gether, apply compresses over it made with folded linen, and retain them there by a bandage. This is also proper in those cases where the bleeding comes from arteries of a large size. We recognise bleeding from an artery by the blood coming away in rapid and successive jets, and being of a bright vermilion colour. A person in a fit of passion has inflicted a blow with a sharp-pointed instrument, a large blood-vessel has been cut, and profuse hemorrhage is the instant consequence. The blood comes awayia rapid jets, producing, by the velocity with which it is ejected, a whizzing noise, and the man in a few seconds falls down pale and ghastly in a state of fainting. Then all is confusion, and, if no one is capable of reasoning or reflecting, the man is either allowed to bleed to death, or cloths and napkins are heaped upon the wound, only serving to conceal from the eye the progress of the mischief. Our first and most important object is to stop for a time the flow of blood,which, unless checked, ■will speedily destroy the patient. This is to be done, not by covering the part with rags and cloths, but by thrusting the finger down to the butVom of the wound, where we shall be directed by the warm current of blood to the orifice of the artery, upon which we are to press firmly and unhesitatingly. This being done we may pro- ceed to check the circulation towards the part. This is performed by the tourniquet, which is drawn tightly around the limb, between the heart and tlie part where the artery is wounded ; but, as it is supposed that such an instrument is not always at hand, we are to be content with press- ing the finger on the artery, thus commanding the flow of blood till the instrument can be procured. A silk handkerchief twisted, as already directed, tightly by a piece of wood, is a good substitute. CUTTLE-FISH BONE. The fish pro- ducing this bone is the Sepia officinalis, and found commonly on our coasts. The bone is nothing more than chalk (carbonate of lime). This curious fish, when frightened or pursued, emits a black liquor, which is supposed to have been used by the ancients instead of writing ink. It was also esteemed by them as a delicacy, but at present is relished only by the Italians. Its porous and laminated bones were formerly era- ployed in medicine as an absorbent, and are still kept in the druggist shops. They are hard on one side, but soft and yielding on the other, so that very neat impressions from medals, &c.,. may be easily made upon them, and then sei've as moulds for casting metallic figures represent- ing the original. These bones in a calcined state are farther useful, not only for cleaning and polishing silver, but chiefly for absorbing the acidity and tartness of wines, which, if not completely spoiled, may thus be restored to their foi'mer briskness. CYDER. Cyder is the fruit liquor prepared by means of fermentation from the expressed juice of different sorts of apples. The process by which ■ this liquor is formed has much similarity in all the different districts, although there is much diversity in regard to the care and management bestowed upon it. The varieties of apples which are grown and cultivated in the different fruit districts of the kingdom for this intention are extremely numerous. The following is a list of the most approved :—Styre, Coccagee, Golden Harvey, liedstreak. Golden Pippin, Queening, and Cowarne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence called Red Norman, Yellow Norman, &c. Mr. Knight's new kinds are also highly esteemed for cyder, namely, the Downton Pippin, the Grange Apple, the Foxley, and the Bringewood Pippin. Gathering the fruit. Great care should be taken that it is sufficiently ripe before it is re- moved from the trees, otherwise the cyder will be harsh, rojgh, and unpleasant to the taste. It should be gathered on a dry day, when theCYD [ 359 ] CYD fruit lias acquired such a state of nmtmnty as to be ready to drop from the tree, ^^hen the limbs and branches should be slightly shaken, and dis- burdened in a partial maimer of-its apples, thus taking only such as are in a ripe state, leaving the others to acquire a due degree of maturity. It is, indeed, thought best to make three gatherings of the crop, keeping each by itself. The latter gatherings, as well as the windfalls, can^ however, only be employed in making inferior cyder. The prime cyder must he drawn from the first gatherings which have been made. The merit of cyder will always depend much on the proper mixture, or rather, on the proper separation of the fruits. Each kind should be collected separately, and kept till it becomes perfectly mellow. For this pur- pose, in the common practice of the country, they are placed in heaps of ten inches or a foot thick, and exposed to the sun, ail', and rain, not being over covered except in very severe frosts. The strength and flavour of the future liquor are, however, increased by keeping the fruit under cover some time before it is ground; but unless a situation can be afforded it in which it is exposed to a free current of aii% and where it can be spread very thinly, it is apt to contract an unpleasant smeil, which will much affect the cyder produced from it. No criterion appears to be known by which the most proper point of maturity in the fruit may be ascertained with accuracy; but there is good reason to believe that it improves as long as it continues to acquire a deeper shade of yellow. Each heap should he examined prior to its being ground, and any decayed or green fruit carefully taken away. When the fruit of different sorts and qualities has been kept separately from one another a few weeks it will be perceived that some of the prime sorts are in a proper state of matura- tion, that the pulp has acquired its highest degree of richness, the kernels assumed their brownest colour, the rind still free from any appearance of rottenness, and that they easily yield to the pressure of the thumb: then is the time, and such is the fruit employed in making prime cyder. Every necessary utensil should now be got in readiness ; the mill, pi'ess, tubs, casks, pails, and bowls well washed, and suffered to dry thoroughly before they are employed in the business. Grinding the apples. In the business of grinding the fruit for this use into what is termed pommage several different methods are practised. It has been suggested by some that each sort of apple should be ground separately, or at least such sorts in mixture as they become ripe at the same time; but others state that this practice is that by which " fine cyder " of different flavours and degrees of strength is ob- tained from the same orchard, the liquors being mixed after they are made. It is, however, allowed that " in all common cases " the practice of grinding different varieties of fruit equally ripe together is found eligible, as it is less diffi- cult to find the requisite degrees of richness, astringency, and flavour in three varieties tlian in one, and hence it is supposed that cyders made from the juice of mixed fruits under common management generally succeed with greater certainty than those from only one kind. In the grinding the fruit should be re- duced as nearly as possible to a uniform con- sistence, in such a manner as that the rinds and kernels may be scarcely discernible from the general mass, the operation proceeding slowly with a free access of air. Preparing the ground fruit. Cyderists do not all agree with regard to the exact time the pommage should be carried to the press. The usual average is from about eighteen to twenty- four hours. At the end of this time the ground fruit, or pommage, is carried to the press, and a square cake or cheese made of it by placing very clean sweet straw or reeds between the alternate layers of pulp, or pommage, or by putting it into hair cloths spread upon the vats, aud placing them one upon another: they are turned up on the sides and covers over the pulp so as nearly to meet in the centres. They should be laid very even, and ten or twelve may be laid over each other in regular layers, the square frame of the press being raised with tliem, keeping the pile of a uniform size. Upon the whole a strong board is placed, wider than the pile, on which the blocks of the press rest. It is of the utmost importance that the straw or reed, where it is used, should be sweet, and perfectly free from fustiness, lest the cyder be impregnated therewith. Particular care ought also to be taken to keep the hair cloths sweet by frequently washing and drying, or the ill effects of their acidity will be com- municated to the cyder. To this cake or cheese, after standing awhile, a slight pressure is at first to be given by lowering the screw of the press, which must be gradually increased as the cakes become drier until all the must or juice is expressed, which is usually completed by a long lever and windlass, after which the juice must be strained through a coarse hair sieve, and put either into open vats or close casks. Fermentation. Fermentation should not, by too much heat, be carried on too rapidly, nor by extreme cold too slowly, as in either case the fermenting body would be injured ; therefore a certain degree of warmth, or rather, imper- ceptible heat, conduces best to regulate this operation. This degree of waimth may be0 YD DAB iinderstood to rest between 40" or 50° of I'ahrenheit's thermometer. New-made cyder should, therefore, be put into a cellar according to this rule; the fermentation will then go ou ■with due regulation. When the liquor appears tolerably clear to the eye, and has a piquant vinous sharpness on the tongue, then the least hissing noise heard in the fermentingliquor in this state shows that the place in which it stands is too warm, and that air must be admitted. This is the critical moment for racking the liquor, which is done by draw- ing off the pure part into open vessels, which must be placed in a more cool situation for a day or two, after which it may again be barreled, and placed in some moderately cool situation for the winter. In racking ifc is advisable that the stream from the racking cock be small, and that the receiving tub be but a small depth below the cock, lest, by exciting a violent motion of the parts of the liquor, another fermentation be brought up. The casks into which the liquor is put, whenever racked off, should always be previously thoroughly scalded and dried again, and each should want several gallons of being full, to expose a larger surface to the air. Having attended to these rules so far, the cyder ■will require very little further attention beyond filling up the vessels every two or three weeks, to supply the waste by the insensible fermenta- tion, until the beginning of the succeeding March, at which time it may be reasonably expected the cyder will be bright, pure, and in a fit state for its final racking. This should be done in fair weather; but should the cyder not prove as bright and of as good a colour as desired, this is the time for applying some innocent remedy. The best method is by putting 2 lbs. of lump sugar into a hogshead of cyder. If you wish the cyder to be of a higher colour than what the fruit gives it melt 1 lb. of loaf sugar in a stewpan over a clear fire, stirring it fre- quently until it comes to a very dark brown colour; then take it off the fire, and as it cools add some cyder thereto by little and little, con- tinuing to stir it till it becomes a thin uniform fluid. About a pint of this colouring to a hogs- head of cyder is sufficient. Soon after the spring racking the casks may be gradually stopped by first laying the cork on the bunghole, and in the course of a few days forcing it very tightly into it, covering it over with melted resin or any other similar sub- stance. Bottling the cyder.- This should be done a month after the spring rackings, when the liquor has acquired in the cask its highest degree of perfection ; then, when the weather is fair, the barometer high, and the wind in a nprtberlv point, let the bottles be filled, setting tliera by uncorked until the morning; then let the corks be driven very tightly into the necks of the bottles, tied down with small strong twi.ne or wire, and well secured with melted resin, or other material of the same nature. CYPRUS WINE. The vineyard called La Commanderie, from belonging to the Knights of Malta, produces the best wine. It is very red when new; at the end of the year it becomes yellow, and gets lighter by age. It surpasses all the Muscats of the Archipelago. Next a Muscat, surpassing all the same kinds in Italy. It is white, but increases in colour and thickness by age. After sixty years it is as thick as julep. The other wines are very good. The Greeks in Cyprus at the birth of a child bury a jar of wine in the earth, which they dig up at the marriage of the same child. This wine is called Vin de Famille: it is exquisite. The surplus which is not used is sold to Europeans. The wine is carried in pitched skins, which give it a disagreeable flavour at first; but it ceases by keeping. CYPRUS WINE, ARTIFICIAL. To four gallons of water put one of the juice of white elderberries expressed gently, and passed through a sieve without bruising the kernels ; then add SO lbs. of lump sugar and f oz. of cloves ; boil them half an hour, and skim all the time. When clear pour it into a tub to cool, and fer- ment it with ale yeast on a toast for three days. After this put it into a cask, with 1 lb. of split and stoned raisins, in the sun, and when, the fermentation ceases add five pints of the best French brandy. CYTHEREAN PERFUME. This delicious perfume is made by mixing together essence of violets, ^ oz.; essence of jasmine, i oz.; essence of tuberose, ^ oz.; essence of clove gillyflower, J oz.; oil of roses, 4 drops ; oil of neroli, ^drachm; essence of ambergris, 5 drops ; musk, ^ grain; camphor, 1 grain; and spirit of wine, 1 pint. Strain through blotting paper. D DABS : To Boil. Cut off the fins, nick the brown side under the head, and take out the entrails ; then dry the fish with a cloth, and boil them in salt and water. Serve with shrimp, cockle, or muscle sauce, and garnish with pickled cabbage. DABS : To Fry. Put oil, rendered lard, or dripping into a frying-pan sufficient to cover the fish; let the fat boil before the fish is put in, dry the fish well with a cloth, and flour it. When fried lay it on a cloth to drain. DABS : To Stew, Clean the dabs and eat[ 401 ] DAI DAG off the fins ; put them into a stewpan with as much water as will cover them ; put to them an anchovy split, a blade of mace, some salt, a spoonful of lemon juice, and a shallot; let these simmer very slowly till they are done enough ; skim them very clean, and lay them to drain in a dish, but keep them hot; then strain off the liquor into a stewpan, and put to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoonful of catsup, some pickled mushrooms, and a glass of white wine; let it boil till it is of a proper thickness. If there is any scum take it off, and pour the sauce over the fish. DACE. Wash the fish well, wipe them on a dry cloth, flour them lightly all over, fry them ten minutes in hot lard or dripping, and lay them on a hair sieve to drain. Send them up on a hot dish garnished with sprigs of green parsley. DAFFY'S ELIXIR. Mix together of senna leaves 4 ozs.; guaiacum wood rasped, elecam- pane root, seeds of anise, caraway seeds, coriander seeds, and liquorice root, each 3 ozs.; 8 ozs. of raisins after being stoned, and 6 lbs. of proof spirit. Let tbam remain, but frequently shaking the mixture, for a week ; then strain through a sheet of clean blotting paper. Half of the quantity may be made at a time if preferred. This is a favourite aperient with some elderly people, and is a popular remedy in cases of colic and indigestion. Dose, from one to four table- epoonsful. DAIRY. In the formation of a dairy there are various important subjects which claim the attentive consideration of the individual by whom it may be established. Sometimes he may think it his interest to obtain the greatest possible quantity of produce ; sometimes it may be more beneficial for him to have it of the finest quality; and at other times it may be necessary to have both these objects in view, the one or the other in a greater or less pro- portion, as local circumstances may require. It is, therefore, of importance that he should know how he may accomplish these purposes in the easiest and most direct manner. To be able to convert his milk to the highest possible profit in every case he ought to be fully acquainted with every circumstance respecting the manufacture both of butter and of cheese; for it may, in some cases, happen that a certain portion of milk may be more advantageously converted into butter than into cheese, while another portion of it would yield more profit if made into cheese. No dairy can be managed with profit unless a place be first provided which is properly adapted for keeping the milk, as well as for carrying on the different operations of the dairy. The necessary requisites for a good milk house are, that it be cool in summer and warm in winter, so as to preserve nearly the same tem- perature throughout the year, and that it be dry, so as to admit of being cleaned at all times. As it is on most occasions difficult to contrive a place within the dwelling house that cau possess all these requisites, it becomes advisable to erect a separate building, which may, ia every situation, be reared at a comparatively small expense, and will answer this purpose much better than any of those costly structures which have been erected for noblemen or gentle- men for this paiticular use. It is hardly possible during the summer to keep the dairy house too cool. On this account the building ought, if practicable, to be erected in a dry and airy situation, near a cool spring or running water, where that convenience cau be commanded. If it be in the vicinity of the latter the water should be so conducted, where the nature of the ground will permit, as to have a small stream brought from the rill, and made to run through the house; and. if it can be introduced by means of a pipe, to fall on the pavement from as great a height as may be convenient. It will be productive of considerable advantage, as it will contribute much to preserve the air continually pure, fresh, and cool. Further, the dairy house should be so placed that no stagnant water may remain near it, and that the cows may have as easy access to it as possible. A trough through which the stream of water flows should also be provided near the house, whence the cows may drink ; and should there be no spreading trees to afford a natural shade, an artificial shade ought to be erected, under which the cows may at all times find a comfortable shelter. The principal parts of a dairy house are the milk room and the cheese room. The milk room ought to be cool, of uniform temperature throughout the year, thoroughly ventilated, and perfectly free from damp vapours and bad smells, and it must be always clean, dry, and sweet-aired. In cavernous countries it might in some instances be fitted up in a capacious, dry, and well-ventilated natural cavern, with abundance of spring water and an opening towards the west—such a cavern as serves best in various countries for the storing and keeping of wine; and in some of the sand- stone districts of Britain it might be fitted up in an artificial excavation, so formed as to imitate such a natural cavern; but in all ordinary circumstances it must be simply con- •structed on the open ground in such a manner, or with such accompaniments, as to exclude alike the excessive heat of summer and all the proper cold of winter. Its temperature at any time of the year must not rise above 55°, nor fall below 2 DDAI [ 402 3 DAI 50', else it will certainly injure the milk; and this temperature can be maintained only by means of deep cooling shade in the season of intense sunshine, and of a stove, surrounding flues, or some kindred appliance in the season of cold winds and of frost. It may be con- structed by either sinking the floor some feet under ground, and making the roof a prolonged arch of stone or brick, or by having the floor on a level with the surrounding surface, and forming the I'oof in the ordinary manner with a covering, not of slates or tiles, but of straw tliatch or of turf, and in the latter case it ought to enjoy the shade of overhanging trees or of adjoining lofty buildings. The distance between the floor and ceiling ought to be at least ten feet. The floor should be a close pavement of poliphed sandstone or of tiles, with all its seams so completely puttied as to prevent the enti-ance or stagnation of even the smallest portion of liquid, and with a prevailing inclination towards a drain for carrying off the water; and the bench or table for holding the milk-pans should consist of polished marble, or of beech or plane tree, or at worst of polished sandstone, and should extend round the walls, if the milk room be a sunken one, at a line a little below the level of the outer ground, or, in any case, not more than three feet from the floor. Two windows may open towards respectively the north find the north-east, and should be covered with a sieve of brass or zinc wire impenetrable to mice, and a sheet of gauze cloth within the wire, such as to exclude flies, and yet to admit light and a current of air. If only one window can be thus constructed, or the two be insuffi- cient in size for abundant ventilation, air holes covered with wire should be cut a little above the milk bench, and on the opposite sides of the room; and if the windows cannot be opened towards the north or north-east, but look in some other direction, each must be shaded with a board so placed as to admit a current of air, and at the same time exclude the rays and heat pf the sun. Glazed windows may be added for the winter ; yet, except in veiy cold or very hot weather, they are quite useless, and ought always to stand open. " A complete ventilation," re- marks Sir John Sinclair, " may be preserved by a number of narrow openings in the outside walls near the floor, covered with canvas or wire cloth, to which sliding shutters are fitted in the inside. If there is no other apartment above a ventilator should be made on the roof, covered with weath^' boarding, and communi- cating with the ceiling of the mill? room by an inclosed box or case formed betwixt the Bcantlings, with openings both on the under side next the ceiling, and on the upper side to %lae ventilator in the roof. When there is an apartment above the case in the ceiling should have openings at the ends through the walls, with wire cloth coverings. Two of these cases should be made in the ceiling, with two openings to each from it about one foot square, perforated with holes or covered with wire cloth." The milk bench, the floor, and the walls of the house ought to be so closely constructed as not to admit of the lodgment of milk, dirty water, dampness, or any impurity. The milk bench and the floor ought to be carefully washed and dried every time that milk or water is dropped on them; the walls and the ceiling ought to be frequently swept, so that no dust may accumulate or cobwebs be formed ; and the drain which carries off the water should be kept as clean as the floor itself, and should not com- municate with any sink or pond, but with an outward channel of perfectly free and open con- veyance. When a little rill of water from any adjacent spring can be made to flow along the drain of the milk house it has a fine cooling and purifying effect, carrying off effluvia, keep- ing up continual ventilation, and maintaining constant freshness and sweetness in the air. The cheese room ought to be, in every instance, a separate apartment, no matter in what part of the farmery, but clean, moderately cool, per- fectly dry, and quite free from bad vapours and gases. " It ought," says Mr. Alton, " to be dry, to have a moderate degree of air and some light, but not too much of either, and never admit the sun to shine into it or on the cheese. If the cheeses, when laid up to dry, have not some free air they will become mouldy, and will not dry and harden properly; and if they are exposed to much drought, heat, or sunshine they will dry too hastily, with many cracks or fissures. Perhaps they will sweat or perspire, and sNvell like a loaf, which in dairy language is called fire-fanging." All milk coolers, or vessels for holding milk in the milk house, ought to be wide and shallow, so as to expose a large surface for the ascent and dis- engagement of the cream. Some are fixed troughs, with a stop-cock at the bottom of each, so that the milk can be withdrawn, and the cream left in the trough, and these are hewn out of stone, or made of wood with a lining of metal; but most are moveable vessels of either earthenware, Wedge- wood's ware, wood, tinned iron, copperwork, block tin, zinc, alloy, or some combination of wood and metal. Wooden ones are not easily kept clean, earthenware ones are easily broken, zinc, lead, and iron ones form noxious saline compounds with the lactic acid of the milk, and marble ones are expensive. The other kinds also have their respective disadvantages, and probably those of Wedgewood's ware, all things considered, are the most desirable.DAM DAI [ 403 3 Wooden pails are used for receiving the milk as drawn from the cow, and they ought to be of sufficient capacity to contain all the milk which is obtained at one milking. The chief of the other utensils of the dairy are sieves of hair or of wire gauze for passing the milk through, in order to retain its impurities when emptying it from the pails into the cooler; scal- lops or flat dishes of horn, ivory, or willow, for skimming the cream from the surface of the milk; jars for receiving the cream, and containing it till the time of churniyg; a flat wooden tub for washing the butter in; balance, scales, and weights for weighing butter; covered dishes for holding pound pieces of fresh butter ; moulds for form- ing prints of butter for the table ; jars or firkins for the curing and packing of salted butter ; a wooden vat or tub for the coagulation of milk which is to be made into cheese; a curd cutter and curd breaker, or knife, an implement for the cutting and comminuting of the curd; and a drainer, or vessel pierced with holes, for draw- ing off the great body of the whey from the curd. DAIRY-MAID. In Holstein the most correct and unwearied attention is paid to dairying, and the following is a statement of the services of the head dairy-maid: those of England mayproiit by it. The upper dairy-woman is by far tlie most important personage in the establishment, as on her skill, attention, and diligence depend, in a great measure, both the quantity and quality, and by consequence the profit, of the produce. She must not onlj' thoroughly understand, but accurately observe, the moment when the milk should be creamed, the degree of acidity it must attain in the cream-barrels, its temperature, whether requiring the addition of warm or cold water to the churn, as well as the all-important operations of kneading, beating, salting, and packing the butter. She must not only be punctiliouslj' clean herself in person and work, but keep a strict eye over the clfauliness and order of her subordinate maidens. In very large dairies the upper woman has full employ- ment without milking, and needs the assistance always of one, and sometimes of two of the more experienced dairy-maids in butter and cheese making; but in smaller establishments she milks a certain number, generally ten cows, while each of her subordinates has eighteen. Her wages are usually 55 to 60, that of chief assistants 22, and that of the others 18 dollars per annum. During summer the dairy people must rise at three, and even two in the morning if the weather be very hot, for which they are indem- nified by two hours' sleep fi'om one to three in the afternoon. At four they commence milking, which takes place in the field, and generally occupies two hours. At the beginning of the season each girl marks her own cows by tying a particular coloured ribbon round their tails, and in some places they adopt the precaution of the milkers carrying a string, on which they cast a knot as each cow is successively milked, thus securing against one being forgotten. DALEY'S CARMINATIVE. See Carmi- native, Daley's. DAMASK. A desci-iption of woven cloths composed both of flax and of silk, which are believed to have been originally brought from Damascus. Linen damask is used for table- cloths and napkins. Until the last half century the cloths of this kind used in England were imported from Germany, but the manufacture has since that time been successfully carried on both in Scotland and in Ireland. Damask cloths are of thick texture, but fine in quality, and the weaving of them puts into requisition all the skill of the weaver for the production of the elaborate patterns which they bear. Some of these patterns require upwards of 1200 changes of the draw-loom for their completion, the method of performing which could not be ex- plained without going into the detail of the art of weaving. The weaving of silk damask was introduced into England by the Flemish weavers who fled hither from the persecutions of the Duke of Alva in 1567. For a long time silk damask dresses were used on all occasions of ceremony by ladies of rank and by wealthy commoners, but they were never commonly worn. They were wrought with a great variety of colours, and if the patterns did not exhibit much taste they were sufficiently showy; from the quantity of silk which they contained they were also very costly. The damask employed at the present day for curtains and the like articles of household furniture is made of a mixture of silk with flax, cotton, or wool; the warp is of the more costly material. Cotton damask is made in imitation of that formed of linen, but it is much inferior in quality, and far less durable. DAMP, whether in beds, in linen, or in walls, is very injurious to those living within them. Beds become damp either from their not being used, standing in damp houses or in rooms without fire, or from the linen not being dry when laid on the bed. Nothing is more to be dreaded by travellers than damp beds, which are very common in all places whei-e fuel is scarce. When a traveller, cold and wet, arrives at an inn he may, by means of a good fire, warm diluting liquor, and a dry bed, have the perspiration restored; but if he be put into a cold room and laid in a damp bed it will be more obstructed, and the worst consequences will ensue. But inns are not the only places where damp beds are to be met with. Beds[ 404 ] DAM DAM kept in private families for the reception of strangers are often equally dangerous. All kinds of linen and bedding, when not frequently used, become damp. Nothing is more common than to hear people complain of having caught cold by chaugirig their bed. The reason is 'obvious: were they careful never to sleep in a bed but what was frequently used they would seldom find any ill consequences from a change. Nothing is more to be dreaded by a delicate person when on a visit than being laid in a bed which is kept on purpose for strangers. That ill-judged piece of complaisance becomes a real injury. All the bad consequences from this quarter might easily be prevented in private families by causing their servants to sleep in the spare beds, and resign them to strangers when they come. In inns where the beds are used almost every night nothing else is neces- sary than to keep the rooms well seasoned by frequent fires, and the linen dry. If a person suspects that his bed is damp the simple pre- caution of taking off the sheets, and lying in the blankets with most of his clothes on, will prevent all the danger. Damp walls, to which so much discomfort and unhealthiness are attributable, may be readily prevented by but little trouble and less pre- caution on the part of the builder or occupier. In the dampest soil the moisture may be effectually prevented from rising into the wall by introducing a course of slate into the founda- tion, and even in the case of porous bricks they may be readily rendered peifectly water- tight and dry by painting or oiling them ex- ternally. If colour is no object a coat or two of the common anticorrosive paint will effect a cure. If the colour of the bricks is an object one or two coats of common linseed oil, applied by the paint-brush, will render the entrance of moisture impossible. This may be applied slightly warmed, selecting a dry and warm day. The wall should, of course, be-in as dry a state as possible, since, when it is full of water, the entrance of the oil is prevented. Even one coat- ing of oil carefully applied will produce a very good effect; and on a second application, which should be about a fortnight after the first, the filling up of the pores of the brick by the lin- seed oil will be evidenced by the considerably diminished quantity of oil which the wall re- quires. This is by no means an expensive im- provement, and the economical results produced are considerable. After the application there is a drier and warmer atmosphere in the house, less evaporation going on from the internal walls (an evaporation which demands the heat of larger fires), and cold currents from the walls towards the fire are diminished. The comfort of the family circle is thus extended, their health better secured. DAMSON BISCUITS. Pick aiad wash a quantity of ripe damsons, put them into a stone jar, and bake them in a slow oven till they are soft; then skin and stone them, force thpm with a spoon through a hair sieve, and to every pound of pulp add 2 lbs. of sifted loaf sugar, half a drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the whites of two eggs well whisked up; then make up little square moulds of writing paper, and place the paste very smoothly and evenly in them to about not quite double the thickness of an ordinaiy biscuit. Put these moulds into the stove, and in a week they will be dry. DAMSON CHEESE. Bake in a slow oven some ripe damsons, in an earthen pan covered with paper, till soft; rub them while hot through a cullender, put the juice and pulp into a stew- pan with some powdered loaf sugar, and boil them two or three hours over a gentle fire, stir- ring them frequently. About five minutes before they are done put in the kernels of the fruit broken and skinned. On taking out the mass put it into moulds or pots, let them stand twenty-four hours, and afterwards cover them with brandied paper. DAMSON DliOPS. Put some damsons in the oven to bake, but not so much as to break ; then skin and stone them, and pass them through a sieve ; sift some common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, and mix it with them; make the mix- ture very thick ; drop it off your knife on paper, and put the drops on the stove to dry. When they are quite dry turn them on a sieve, and wet the outside of the paper, when they will come off easily ; set them on the stove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them into papered boxes. DAMSON DUMPLINGS. Make a good hot paste, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a basin, and put in as many damsons as you please; wet the edge of the paste, and close it up ; boil it in a cloth for an hour, pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round the edge of the dish, and serve. DAMSON ICE CREAM. Take 3ozs. of preserved damsons, pound and break the stones of them, put them into a basin, squeeze in two lemons, and add a pint of cream; press them through a sieve, and freeze. DAMSON ICE WATER. Take Jib. of preserved damsons, and break the stones ; put them into a basin, squeeze in a lemon, and add nearly a pint of water and half a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it richly. DAMSON JELLY. To 8 lbs. of damsons put 8 lbs. of fine sugar and half a pint of water; boil them for half an hour over a gentle fire till the skins break ; then take them off, and set them[ 405 ] DAN Dam by for an hour ; put them on the fire again for half an hour more, and set them by again for the same time. Do so the tliird time. While they stand olF the fire put a weight upon them to keep them under the syrup. The last time you must boil them till you perceive they are of a high colour in the part where the skin is broken ; then take them off, set them by to cool, and when they are cold drain off the syrup, and make a jelly in the following manner ;—Boil a good quantity of green apples, green goose- berries, and quince cores to a mash; then strain it through a hair sieve ; take an equal quantity of this jelly to the former syrup, and boil them over a gentle fire together till they jelly; skim it well, and while it is hot put it into glasses or pots. DAMSON PUDDING. Make a paste, and lay it in a basin; then fill it with ripe or bottled damsons, cover it with paste, boil it, and when it is ready to serve cut a piece out of the top ; mix with the fruit sifted sugar to the palate, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon or grated nutmeg. DAMSON SAUCE. Allow i lb. of brown sugar to every pound of fruit, and to each 7 lbs. a pint of molasses and a pint of strong vinegar; let them cook slowly so as not to break the skins; take them up, and put into a jar; add a few cloves to the syrup, let it boil longer, and pour it over the damsons. DAMSON WINE. The small damsons are best, which must be gathered dry, bruised with the hand, and then put into an earthen vessel that has a hole in it for a fausset. To every 8 lbs. of damsons add one gallon of boiling water, which must be poured in scalding hot. After standing two days draw it off into a clean cask, and to every gallon put 2|- lbs. of sugar. Let the cask be quite full, and the longer it stands the better. After remaining some months bottle it off, put- ting into each a piece of loaf sugar. Or, put 2|-lbs. of sugar to every gallon of water, boil and skim it for two hours, and to each gallon add 5 lbs. of stoned damsons ; boil these till the liquor is of a fine red colour, strain it through a sieve, and ferment it in an open vessel for four days. On pouring it off from the lees clean the vessel, and put in the liquor to finish the fermentation ; close it well for six or eight months, and when fine bottle it off. Or, put 16 lbs. of Malaga raisins, with half a peck of damsons, to four gallons of water in a tub, cover it, and let it stand six days, stirring it twice every twenty-four hours; then draw off the liquor, colour it, and pour it into a cask; bung it up, and bottle it for use. DAMSONS: To Keep. Put them into stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles, set them up to the neck in cold water, and scald them. Next day, when cold, fill them up with spring water, and cover them. DAMSONS : To Pbeserve. Put them into a saucepan over the fire with as much water as will cover them. When boiled strain off the liquor, and add to every pound of fruit (wiped clean) as much double-refined sugar; put one- third of the sugar into the liquor; set it over the fire, and when it simmers put in the damsons. Let them boil; then take them off, and cover them closely for half an hour; then set them on again, and let them simmer while over the fire, after being turned ; take them out, put them into a basin, strew all the sugar that remains on them, and pour the hot liquor over them; let them stand covered till the next day, and boil them up once more; then take them out, and put them into pots; boil the liquor till it is a jelly, and when cold pour it over the damsons. DAMSONS, BOTTLED. Gather tha" damsons carefully before they are ripe, put' them into wide-necked bottles, cork them loosely, and let them stand a fortnight; then; look them over, and if any be spoiled or mouldy take them out; wipe and cork the rest closely; set the bottles in sand, with the necks downwards,; and they will keep till spring, and be as good as fresh ones. DAMSONS, CANDIED. After they have been preserved dip them in warm brandy to wash off the syrup; then sift fine sugar over them, and set them to dry in a stove or oven. Repeat this, taking them out three or four times, and sift sugar over them. Do not let them be cold before they are quite dry. DAMSONS, DRIED. iSather them when ripe, spread them on a cloth, and let them remain in a cool oven till dry ; then take them out, and keep them in a dry place. DANDELION [Leontodon Taraxacum). The leaves blanched make a salad quite equal to endive. It has long enjoyed the reputation of proving benefipial in obstructions of the liver and in visceral diseases. Bergius extols its use for these complaints, and recommends the recent root to be boiled in whey or broth. Dr. Pemberton has more recently added his testimony to its value. He observes that he has seen great advantage result from using the extract in; chronic inflammation and incipient scirrhus of the liver, and in chronic derangement of the stomach. It is given in the form of extract or in decoction, made by boiling 1 oz. of the sliced root in 1 pint of water down to half a pint, adding to the strained liquid 1 drachm of cream of tartar: the recent full-grown root only should be used. Dose, 2 fluid ozs. twice or thrice a day. The roots are roasted and used at Got- tingen by the poorer people for coffee, fromDAY [ 406 ] DAN ■which a decoction of them properly prepared can hardly be distinguished. DANDRIFF. This, often called Scurf, is prevented being formed at the roots of the hair by either of the following applications. If one fails let the other be tried :—Dissolve J oz. of borax and \ oz. of camphor in a pint of proof spirit of wine; dip a piece of flannel into the solution, and rub it well into the scalp. Or, mix together of liquor potassas, *2 fluid drachms; rose water, 5J fluid ozs.; spirit of rosemary, ^ fluid oz. Apply this as just directed. DARIOLS. Put a little more than half a quartern of flour upon a pie board, with \ lb. of butter, a little salt, and a glass of water; knead the whole together so as to make a firm paste, and then roll it to the thickness of half a finger; cut it into bits the size of a small patty pan, and form them with your hands into moulds, having an edge raised abopt an inch deep; put them into an oven moderately hot, and half or a quarter of an hour afterwards put into each half a pint of cream mixed with two spoonsful of flour, very little salt, and 1 oz. of sugar. When done strew sugar over them. DARNING. Beautiful darning should be reserved for that part of the stocking which may require mending above the shoe. That which is never to be seen but by our laundress should be more expeditiously despatched in inferior, but equally strong work. The art of " picking up " stitches, instead of darning eveiy hole that may appear, is a simple, expeditious, neat, and valuable method of mending stockings, which is not half so generally known as it ought to be. It is as follows :—Turn the stocking on the right side outwards ; thread a small sewing needle with very fine cotton; pass the fingers only down the stocking, keeping the thumb outside in order to preserve the edges of the hole in their places. " Fasten on " by darning backwards and forwards a few times at the end of the hole farthest from you; theij take on the needle two loops both on one side, and draw the thread through ; then two on the other side of the hole; draw them closely ; after- wariJs put the needle baclt into the last of the two loops or meshes, and talie one additional loop, so that there are always to be two consecutive loops on the needle, yet only one of them is to be a fresh one ; pass over to the opposite side, and again put the needle back into the loop from which the thread issues, and take another (the next loop) on to it; thus continue drawing the edges closely, and if this be done skilfully, wliich five minutes' practice will effect, the hole will be imperceptible. This is a case of simple drop])ing of stitches ; a gigantic gap, however, is considerably mitigated in its annoying di- inensious, and at least one-half the consequent trouble of darning will be spared, by drawing the edges together (or so near as will allow the stocking to remain flat and unpuckered) with very fine cotton. In this case the hole will be made considerably smaller, and the regular darning afterwards will entirely hide the useful tiny thread that has held the gaping edges in their places. When stitches drop in a stocking the fabric will generally be found very weak, and by the plan of " taking up the stitches," instead of an unsightly darn being displayed, and a large portion of time being employed upon this ugly space, nothing will be requisite but to thicken the thin part on the wrong side in the usual manner. DARTMOUTH PIE. Chop and mince Slbs. of the lean part of a leg of mutton, and half as much beef suet; keep it constantly stirred from the board to prevent the minute particles from sticking; add 1 lb. of currants, sift over them 3 ozs. of powdered lump sugar^ grate some nutmeg, and season with a little salt. Work this mixture into a paste composed of two parts of purified beef suet and one of fresh butter (both melted), and mix in the water which is to be used in making the crust; boil all together, and then pour it into the cavity formed in the centre of the flour, knead it up, and roll it out for a lining and covering to the dish. DAY, in general, signifies that space of time during which it continues to be light, in con- tradistinction to night, or the period of darkness, while the sun is illumining the other hemisphere. Hence the rising and setting of the sun are usually considered as the extent of the day, and the time that elapses from its setting to its rising again as the night. In consequence of the unequal length of days, resulting from the peculiar revolution of the planets producing the different seasons, we are inclined to think that many persons, espe- cially in the higher walks of life, avail them- selves of this irregularity, insomuch that, by the law of fashion, in winter they convert the night into A&y, and in summer exchange the most agreeable mornings and forenoons for damp unwholesome evenings and nights. It would be a vain attempt to reprobate this un- natural custom in those circles where it is fancied to be equally vulgar to repair to bed in good time and to rise early—a practice in- stinctively followed even by the lower animals. To the industrious and r)iore domestic members of society we venture to recommend, while in a good state of health, the following division of the day, namely, in spring and autumn to rise with the first rays of the sun; in summer, one hour after ; and in winter one hour before that luminary appears; to allot eveiy day, Sundays excepted, from ten to twelve hours to usefulDEA [ 4C7 ] DEA occupations; from six to seven hours to the Various purposes of dressing, taking provisions, exei'cise, or amusements; and also from six to seven or eight liours to repose, accordingly as they have been more or less fatigued the pre- ceding day either by mental or bodily exertions. Such would be both a natural and judicious arrangement of the day; and we make no doubt that those who are disposed to devote their time and labour to the welfare of the community will neither have reason to complain that the days are too long, nor the nights too short, for useful purposes. See Bedtime. DEADLY NIGHTSHADE. See Bella- donna. DEAFNESS is frequently the effect of old age, and is incident to most persons in the decline of life. It is, however, sometimes owing to an original defect in the organic structure of the ear, in which case the unhappy individual not only continues deaf, but frequently also speechless. This complaint may, indeed, arise from a variety of causes, such as injuries sustained by the ear from wounds, ulcers, excessive noise, violent colds in the head, fevers, hard wax ad- hering to the cavity of the ear, or too great a degree of either moisture or dryness in that organ. When it is the effect of old age or of wounds and ulcers in the ears it is not easily remedied. If it proceeds from a catarrh affect- ing the head, especially after cold bathing, the patient must be careful to preserve that part constantly warm, particularly during the night. He should likewise take some gentle laxatives, keep his feet warm, and bathe them frequently in tepid or lukewarm water at bedtime. Mer- curial frictions have in this case been a,pp]ied with success ; but if the complaint originates from fevers it will generally disappear when the patient recovers his health; or, if it arisea^ from dry wax clogging the ears, this may be softened by dropping a little sweet oil, or oil of rosemary, into them, after which they should be syringed with warm milk and water. If deafness bp occasioned by too great a dry- ness in the ears, which may be easily ascer- tained by inspecting them, \ oz. of the oil of sweet almonds, and the same quantity of cam- phorated spirit of wine or tincture of asafcetida, may be mixed together, and a few drops poured into the ear every night previously to going to bed, care being taken to close them afterwards with a little wool or cotton. When the ears abound with moisture the superfluous humour may be drained by an issue or seton, which should be made as near as possible to the part affected. Where a powerful stimulant becomes abso- lutely necessary camphorated oil, with the addi- tion of a few drops of volatile alkaline spirit, may be considered as one of the most powerful applications. It will be proper in such case to begin with a very small quantity of the alkali, and to increase it progressively as the ear is enabled to bear it. In several instances where the disease depended on a state of insensibility in the nerves both the shower bath and elec- tricity have been successfully resorted to. Ex- perience recommends a few drops of onion juice on cotton to be worn in the ear for several weeks, and daily renewed. Deaf persons ought to expire forcibly, with their mouth and nose closely stopped—a simple but rational expedient, which ought to be frequently repeated, though it has sometimes afforded instant relief. These various remedies, however, should be judiciously adapted to different states of the disorder, for, though real benefit has occasionally been derived from them, yet they also often faii, and not unfrequently are productive of injury. The organs of hearing, as well as those of sight, being extremely tender, require the most cautious treatment, and ought not on any account to be tampered with, nor submitted to the experiments of ignorant pretenders. Hence, instead of having recourse to nostrums, we recommend those persons who are afflicted with deafness to. keep the head warm. From whatever cause the disorder may originate this will always be found the safest and most proper practice, and more real benefit has often been derived from it in the most obstinate cases than from any raedicines what- ever. Deafness is often occasioned by a long-con- tinued disordered state of the stomach, and is then often accompanied by an excessive accu- mulation of mucus in the throat. Attention to diet and medicine for restoring the healthy action of the stomach are remedial in this case. {See Acidity of the Stomach.) Bicarbonate of potash, ten grains in a little water, after each meal, has been greatly beneficial in cases of (Jeafness arising from such acidity. DEATH- The cases in which death can be clearly ascertained are nearly the following :— 1. When putrefaction has actually taken place over the whol« animal frame, as instances are common in which a partial mortification of an arm or a leg is by no means mortal. 2. In the nervous apoplexy of the aged, as such persons generally die in consequence of slowly wasting disorders, various species of palsy, &c. 3. If the patient expires after a long-stand- ing consumption, hectic fever, or ulcerations of the breast and lungs, diseases now very common. 4. If any of the larger blood-vessels or other parts essential to life have received external[; 408 ], DEA DEB injury by violent blows, bruises, or cuts, attended with great loss of blood, whicb could not be stopped by artificial means. If we are unable to supply the loss of this vital fluid, and to restore the organisation of the parts thus destroyed, particularly if the brain, the lungs, the heart, the stomach, or any of the intestines have suffered from a severe wound, a speedy dissolution may be considered as inevitable. 5. After chronic disorders of the intestines, obstnictions of the abdominal vessels, and dropsy thence arising, or if an incurable weakness in the breast has occasioned the organic destruction or ossification of the pectoral vessels, there is little prospect of the recovery of such a person, as these complaints of asthmatic sufferers in general are not in a just proportion to the whole state of the body, for instance, if their appetite and digestion have been unimpaired previous tQ their disease, or if their muscular strength has not suffered from the like affections. 6. Inpersonsof tender and debilitated nerves, who have been long subject to spasms or epi- leptic fits, particularly if they die in childbed in consequence of violent hemorrhages, or after repeated and oppressive agitations of mind. In such cases there is no hope left, as it is too late to think of changing or improving the con- stitution of the nervous system. 7. Lastly, if a person gradually wastes away in a malignant, nervous, or putrid fever, or after long fasting from want of food. In these in- stances it is not in the power of the medical art to restore the shriveled vessels to their proper tension and energy, and consequently all our attempts to re-animate the body will be unavailing. ' There remains now to be stated, also, in what cases and situations the symptoms of apparent death are less certain, so that some hope of re- covery is still left to the disconsolate friend and relative. These are principally the following:— After faintings, sudden loss of blood from diseased intestines ; in certain cases of repelled morbid matter, for instance, in the small pox, measles, poisons, and the like, which frequently produce a spurious kind of apoplexy ; after hysteric and hypochondriac spasms and colics of a transitory kind which have not too often recurred; after mental anxiety, perturbation, terror, and other oppressive passions, where everything depends on a speedy removal of the causes. To this list we may likewise add the cases of drowned, hanged, and otherwise suffocated persons, or those who appear to be dead in consequence of a fall from high scaffoldings without any external injury. In such accidents an external pressure or stoppage of the vital functions, as breathing iaud the circulation of the blood, often produces a state of apparent death. Even the suppressed pulse in the arteries, imperceptible respiration, the coldness and rigidity of the limbs, the want of contractibility in the pupil of the eye, the involuntary loss of excrementitious substances- all these symptoms of approaching dissolution should not discourage us from trying the proper means of recovering the patient's life. In chil- dren and young persons in particular we must not too hastily decide whether they be absolutely dead or not. Teething is frequently attended with diversified convulsive symptoms, and the tape-worm is capable of producing the most alarming effects, which the inexperienced by- standers may unwarily ascribe to very different causes. Hence every possible degree of pre- caution is requisite in managing the bodies of infants apparently dead, and they ought not to be removed from the warm temperature of the sick room before the last lingering spark of life is extinguished ; indeed, it must strike even superficial observers that the hasty removal of a body from a warm to a colder temperature is highly improper and dangerous. DEBILITY is that feeble state of life in which the vital functionsare languidly performed, when the mind loses its cheerfulness and vivacity, when the limbs are tottering with weakness, aiid the digestive faculty is impaired. This complaint may arise from a great variety of causes, of which the following are the prin- cipal:—1. Descent from enfeebled parents. 2. Changes in the admixture and component parts of the surrounding atmosphere. 3. A sedentary and indolent mode of life. 4. Im- moderate sleep, or, in a still more hurtful degree, want of the necessary portion of sleep and repose. 5. Too great exertions either of mind or body. 6. The unnecessary and imprudent use of medi- cines. Lastly, the almost total disuse and exclusion of gymnastic exercise, and the general introduction of sedentary games, the effect of which creates an almost universal apathy to every pursuit that requires exertion. Debility is the source of numerous disorders, such as spasms, palsy, violent evacuations,- hemorrhages, putrid and nervous fevers, fainting fits, and apparent death. The means employed for the preserving and Taa.inta.mmg feeble life are as various as the causes on which it depends, and the disorders with which it is generally accompanied. The first object that claims the attention of persons in this state is warmth, the external application of which ought to be proportioned to the temperature of the body, and gradually augmented accordingly as the natural warmth of the individual increases. If duly applied gentle heat possesses both stimu- lating and strengthening properties, by which the activity of the vital principle is excited and supported. The communication o^ warmth mayDEL [ 409 ] DEB be considerably facilitated by the use of tl:e tepid or warm bath. The next and one of the most important objects to debilitated persons is diet, in which respect much depends on their previous habits and modes of life. If they carefully attend to the peculiarities of their constitution, and observe ■whatever is to them salutary or hurtful, they may prolong their lives for a considerable time, provided their conduct be guided by the neces- sary knowledge and experience. In short, to guard against excess and pursue a middle course will be the best means of accomplishing the most salutary end. Debilitated persons ought to be imperceptibly hardened; the transition to a severer and more invigorating course of life must be so progressive that the convalescent be not subjected to any disagreeable restraint, and this method should likewise be continued for a sufBcient length of time, during wliich he ought never to return to his former debilitating habits. Such invalids should eat only a very small proportion of animal food, namely, white meat, which is least stimulating, together with a due quantity of the most nutritious vegetables. They may also partake of small portions of flesh broth thickened with sufScient bread, rice, &c., to render it more nourishing and less flatulent; but they ought to abstain from fat and milk unless the latter be given immediately after it is drawn from the cow. If solid food cannot be allowed, or if it irritate the stomach, recourse must be had to gelatinous aliment, such as eggs, nourishing soups, salep, barley broth, shell fish, &c., which, if taken in small quantities, are exceedingly strengthening. Pei'sons of this description ought to accommodate their whole dress to the climate and changes of the weather; they should at all times endeavour to procure a middle temperature between cold and heat; for instance, from 60° to 65°. Woollen clothing is in this respect far preferable to fur, as the latter heats the body and increases per- spiration. Flannel if worn next the skin will preserve the human frame in a more equal tem- perature than is attainable by any other substance, and at the same time protect it from the hurtful infl.uence of the two extremes. Individuals in this state require longer and less disturbed rest than those in perfect health and vigour. Labour and exercise adapted to their habits and strength will greatly promote that desirable object; likewise the tepid bath, a clean and not too soft couch, an airy, healthy, and capacious apartment, but partipularly a calm and composed mind, which last possesses a most powerful influence in preserving health and life, for without tranquillity all other means •will be ineffectual. DECANTERS. To remove the stain of port wine from a decanter fill it with cold water, and dissolve in it a table-spoonful of chloride of lime, or the same quantity of muriatic acid. Let it stand for half an hour, and then wash thoroughly in two or three waters before any wine is put in. Some stains are removed as follows:—Rinse out the bottles, and put in a piece of lighted coarse brown paper; stop closely, and when the smoke is no longer visible wash the bottles clean. This will take out all stains ; but if the decanters are very dirty they may require two or three times doing. If a stopper becomes fixed in a decanter pass a piece of thick string round the neck of the decanter just where the stopper is fixed, and draw the string backvvards and forwards briskly in the manner of a drill-bow until the neck becomes quite hot. This causes the decanter to expand and releases the stopper. Prevention is better than having to cure, and therefore it is well to know that a stopper will never become fixed if the slightest quantity of olive oil is rubbed round its ground part before being put into the decanter. DELIRIUM accompanies fevers of many different kinds. It is sometimes slight, easily removed, and scarcely to be accounted a bad sign. Very often, however, it is extremely violent, and one of the very worst signs, re-- quiring the utmost care and attention. It is either fierce or mild. The fierce delirium is preceded and accompanied by a redness of the countenance, a pain of the head, a great beating of the arteries, and noise in the ears; the eyes, in the meantime, looking red, inflamed, fierce, shining, and unable to bear the light; there is either no sleep at all or sleep troubled with horrid dreams; the wonted manners are changed; unusual peevishness and ill-nature prevail. The depravation of judgment is first observed be- tween sleeping and waking, and by the person crediting his imagination, while the perceptions of sense are neglected, and the ideas of memory occur in an irregular manner. Fury at length takes place, and sometimes an unusual and in- credible degree of bodily strength, so that several attendants can scarcely keep a single patient in his bed. The mild delirium is, on the contrary, often accompanied with a weak pulse, a pale collapsed countenance, and a vertigo when the patient sits in an erect posture. He is seldom angry, but often stupid, and some- times remarkably grieved and fearful. The loss of judgment, as in the former kind, is first perceived when the patient is half awake; but a temporary recovery ensues upon th admission of the light and the conversation of his friends. The patient mutters much to himself, and attends little to the things around him; at last, be-[ 410 ] DEN DES coming quite stupid, he neither feels the sensa- tions of hunger nor thirst, nor any of the other propensities of nature, on which account urine and excrements are involuntarily voided. As the disorder increases it ultimately terminates in death. DENTIFRICE. See Teeth. DENTITION, or Teething. Of all the diseases to which children are liahle not one is attended with such truly distressing symptoms as difficult teething. With regard to the time of cutting their teeth no fixed or exact period can be laid down, as some cut their first tooth at three or four months old, while others, again, have not the smallest appearance of a tooth before the eighth or ninth month. Teething in the majority of children generally begins be- tween the fifth and eighth month, and the pro- cess of first teething commonly continues until the sixteenth at least. The two fore-teeth of the under jaw are those which usually appear first, and after these two more are observed coming out of the upper jaw exactly opposite to the former. These are succeeded by the fore- grinders, then the dog teeth, and the last of an infant's first teeth, the eye teeth, making sixteen in all. This, it is well known, is the ordinary number of a child's first teeth, as they are called; but some infants cut four double teeth in each jaw instead of only two, making the whole number twenty. In strong, healthy children the process of teething goes on in the manner just described, and the teeth are cut soon and easily; but in ^unhealthy and weak infants this process is both slow and uncertain. The well-known symptoms preceding teething are familiar to all mothers, such as dribbling, swelling, spreading, and heat of the gums, redness of the cheeks, with eruptions on the skin, especially on the face and scalp ; the child is watchful; a looseness ensues, with griping green stools; is peevish, starts during sleep, and seems convulsed in particular parts of the body. In almost all cases the child shiieks, and thrusts its fingers into its mouth, &c. Many of the evils of teething are often pre- vented by a spontaneous looseness coming on, and in children of full habit it might be well to excite this artificially where it does not naturally occur. Where there is considerable fever drawing blood by scarifying the gums in the neighbourhood of the parts affected, and apply- ing leeches behind the ears, are often practised, and not unfrequently with advantage. In some instances blisters may be substituted instead of leeches with a good effect. Opium is sometimes resorted to for the pur- pose _ of allaying pain and irritation during difficult dentition, but the practice should be adopted with due caution. Dalby's carminative, Godfrey's cordial, soothing syrups, in fact, all such quack nostrums containing opium, which constitutes their chief ingredient, ought to be banished from the nursery as unsafe, and with- out any other, if any, than a tempoi'ary benefit, which may at all times be procured by less hazardous means. Instead of these a tea- spoonful of the syrup of poppies will be the safest opiate that can be administered in cases of urgent necessity. It is unfortunately too much the practice of nurses to give some of the preceding or other preparations of opium in the watching and complaints of children, that their own rest may not be disturbed. This practice is fraught with evil, and merits the severest censure. The practice of giving children coral aud other hai'd substances to put into their mouths during the period of teething is im- proper, as they occasion hardness of the gums. A piece of small wax candle or a crust of bread is much better. Pure air, proper exercise, wholesome food, an open belly, and everything that has a tendency to promote general health and to guard against fever will greatly contribute to the safety of teething, as well as to the child passing quickly through this dangerous period. DEPILATORIES, orDESTKOYERs of Super- fluous Hairs, are variously compounded. Delcroix's Poudre Subtile. Take orpi- ment, 1 part; finely powdered quicklime and starch, of each 11 parts: mix. It should be kept from the air. For use make it into a paste with a little warm water, and apply it to the part previously shaved close. As soon as it has become thoroughly dry it may be washed off with a little warm water. Oriental Rusma. Take quicklime, 2ozs.; orpimentj \ oz.; strong alkaline lye, 1 lb. : boil together until a feather dipped into it loses its flue. It is applied to the skin previously soaked in warm water by gentle friction for a veiy short time, followed by washing with warm water. This is one of the most certain aud powerful depi- latories made, but rapidly loses its strength un- less kept in a well-stoppered glass bottle. DERBY CAKES. Rub \ lb. of butter into 2 lbs. of fine flour, 1 lb. of currants, the same of moist sugar, and an egg; mix these with half a pint of milk, roll the paste out thin, and cut it into cakes. In a moderate oyen they will be done in a few minutes. DESERT ISLAND. Take a lump of paste, and form it into a rock three inches broad at the top ; then colour it, and set it in the middle of a deep china dish; put a cast figure on it, with a crown on its head and a knot of rock candy at its feet; then make a roll of paste au inch thick, and stick it on the inner edge of the dish two parts round; cut eight pieces of eryngo[ 411 '] DEV DES root about three inches long, and fix them upright to the roll of paste on the edge ; make gravel walks of shot comfits round the dish, and set small figures in them; roll out some paste, and cut it open like Chinese rails; bake it, fix it on either side of the gravel walks with gum, and form an entrance whei'e the Chinese rails are with two pieces of eryngo root for pillars. DESSERT. The following suggestions ai'e from " The Butler," published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman:—Put on the top, middle, and bottom dishes before the sides; but as the dishes for this course are usually smaller, and frequently more in number, they should be put more in the centre of the table, aud closer together than in the other courses The centre dish is usually a plain or orna- mented Savoy or other cake on an elevated stand or high dish, or a vase of flowers or wax fruit; the top and bottom dishes are elevated or high dishes, in which are usually placed a melon, or pine apple, or bunches of grapes; the side dishes are filled with apples, pears, oranges, strawberries, or other fruits in season, and olives; also compotes (fruit preserved in syrup), dried and crystallised fruits, and fruits preserved in brandy, placed in china or glass dishes; small biscuits, cakes, filberts, and such-like. When the ices are placed on the table they are put at the top and bottom, with the ice pails and dishes, with wafers at the sides. The dishes of fruit for these places are put on to remove the ices ; but this arrangement is usual only in large parties, otherwise the ices and wafers are handed round, followed by preserved ginger or brandy cherries. The dishes being all on the table, then put on the sugar basins with powdei'ed lump sugar, and the water jugs, with a tumbler on either side, between the top and bottom dishes, and basins with cream, when required, near the centre dish. Put table-spoons to the dishes for fruit; knives for the cake and large fruits, such as a melon or pine apple. The ice plates are first to be placed on the table when ices are served, with a tea-spoon to each, aud two wine- glasses to each person. When the ices are done with put on the dessert plates, with a doily, knife, fork, and dessert-spoon on each; put the spoon in the centre of each knife and fork ; sometimes the two wine-glasses are placed across these with the foot of one to the rim of the other. Finger glasses should be placed to the right of each person, nearly half filled with cold spring water in summer and lukewarm ■water in winter. Put the grape scissors by the side of the dish of grapes, and if you have a melon knife and fork place them with the melon instead of a dinner knife and fork. If there are nuts put on several pairs of nut- crackers. The wine should be placed at the top and bottom of the table, cooled or otherwise, accord- ing to the season. If the party is small the wine may be placed only at the bottom of the table. When the dessert is all set out, and the ices served round, be as quick as possible in re- moving everything out of the dining-room that has been used for dinner, but with as little noise and bustle as possible. The clean glasses on the sideboard, with the clean plate and cruet stand, may remain, as well as the clean plates and knives and forks on the side table. Occasionally zests are served at the close of the dessert. These consist of anchovy toasts or biscuits, devilled game or poultry, gi'ills, and such-like. Coffee is served last, just before the gentlemen retire to the drawing-room to join the ladies. DEVIL. The gizzard and rump, or legs, &c., of a dressed turkey, capon, goose, or mutton or veal kidney, scored, peppered, salted, and broiled, sent up for a relish, being made very hot, has obtained the name of a " devil." DEVILLED BISCUIT. Bone and wash some anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a little fresh butter, rub them through a sieve, and spread them on a biscuit warmed before the fire in a Dutch oven, with a sufficient quantity of salt, savoury spice, zest, curry powdei", or Cayenne pepner sprinkled over it. DEVONPORT FOWLS. Hang up young fowls for a night. Make a stuffing of the liver, hearts, and the softest parts of the gizzards shred small, with a handful of young clary, one anchovy for each fowl, an onion, the yolks of four hard eggs, pepper, salt, and mace. Stuff the fowls, and stew up the vents and necks ; boil them in salt and water till nearly done ; drain, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient butter to brown them. Serve them with melted butter and catsup in the dish. DEVONSHIRE CREAM. See Cbeam. Devonshire. DEVONSHIRE HERB PIE. Pick two handsful of parsley from the stem, half as much spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cress, a few leaves of boi-age, and white beet leaves ; wash and boil these a little, drain and press out the water, cut them small, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt; make a batter with flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half as much milk ; put this on the herbs; cover the whole with a crust, and bake it well. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Put into a bowl some new milk warm from the cow, and turn it with rennet; then add some scalded cream, with sugar and pounded cinnamon onDIA DEV [ 413 I the top, and serve it without breaking the curd. DEVONSHIRE SQUASH PIE. Cover the dish with a good crust, then place at the bottom a layer of sliced apples, and upon them a layer of mutton cut from the loin and seasoned with pepper and salt; then put another layer of apples, then one of mutton, and, lastly, a mix- ture of sliced onions and apples; pour in a pint of water, cover the pie, and place it in the oven. DEVONSHIRE STEW. Mix together the following articles previously boiled and shred :— Potatoes, cabbage or greens, and onions; season with pepper and salt; put the whole into a pan, with a lump of nice beef dripping or butter, and stir it until hot: it is then ready for use. Double the quantity of potatoes are required to the cabbage and onions. This is a cheap dish, and eats well with hot or cold meat. Potatoes and cabbage left at dinner the day previous will answer the purpose. The water should be changed at least twice during the boiling of the onions. DEVONSHIRE WHITE POT. Beat up a pint of cream with four eggs, a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of sugar ; then slice very thinly almost the whole of the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a dish ; pour the eggs and cream to it, a handful of raisins of the sun boiled, and a little sweet butter; bake it. DIABETES is an immoderate flow of urine. There are two species of this complaint; the one (diabetes insipidus), in which there is a super- abundant discharge of limpid urine of its usual urinary taste; the other (^diabetes mellitus), in which the urine is very sweet, and contains a great quantity of sugar. People of shattered constitutions and those in the decline of life are most subject to its attacks. The characteristics of this disease are great thirst, with a voracious appetite, gradual emacia- tion of the whole body, and a frequent discharge of urine containing a large proportion of sac- charine and other matter, which is generally voided in a quantity greatly exceeding the quantity of aliment or fluid taken into the sys- tem for the purposes of the animal economy. It is notunfrequently an attendant on hysterical, hypochondriacal, dyspeptic, and asthmatic sub- jects, but it is always much milder when it is a symptom of some other complaint than when it is a primary affection. A variety of remedie's have been proposed for this disease, but their ultimate success has been generally found to be precarious, or only tem- porary, at least in the mellitic form of the disease. The mode of treating it has, for the most part, been conducted on the principle of determining the fluids to other outlets, particularly the slun and the kidneys, whence the disease is said to arise. A diet consisting exclusively of animal food has been much extolled by Dr. Rolls, who was in the laabit of using the sulphuret of potash (ten grains, with the confection of roses) in the form of bolus three times a day ; and a case is recorded which was successfully treated by putting the patient on a diet consisting principally of animal food, with a generous allowance of porter, giving at the same time the nitric acid in the proportion of from one to thi-ee drachms of the acid to 2 lbs. of water, with about 2 ozs. of sugar daily. DIABLOTINS. Pound some chocolate with a little olive oil into a stiff paste, of which take small pieces, and roll them in your hands into tlie shape of nuts, olives, &c., either round or flat; strew over them nonpareils of different colours, and dry them in cases like other sweet- meats. DIACHYLON is a plaster made of 1 oz. of litharge (half-vitrified oxide of lead) and 2 ozs. of olive oil, boiled together until they have united. A little water must be added to prevent the plaster burning. It is the basis of other plasters, opium, asafoetida, &c., being added. Diachylon by itself is used to put over slight wounds and excoriations, to defend them from the air and from further injuiy. DIAMOND CEMENT. See Cement, Ar- MEKIAN. DIAPHORETICS are medicines producing gentle perspiration, and are usually small doses- of the same medicines as are employed for more profuse sweating. See Sudorifics. DIARRHCE A, or Looseness of the Bowels. The characteristics of this disease are frequent and copious discharges of feculent matter by stool, attended with considerable griping pain, each stool being usually preceded by a murmur- ing noise and flatulence in the intestines, accom- panied with a sense of weight and uneasiness in the lower part of the belly, which subside on the discharge taking place, but which recur before the succeeding one comes on. In addition to these there are frequently sickness, nausea, and vomiting; the countenance turns pale, and sometimes sallow; thirst, bitterness, di-yness of the mouth, and yellowness of the tongue indi- cating the presence of bile in the intestines; the skin is dry and rigid, and if the disease continues great emaciation succeeds. It is distinguislied from dysentery and flux by being unatttnied with either inflammation, fever, contagion, or tenesmus, by the appearance of the matter evacuated, which in diarrhoeas or looseness is feculent, or mixed with alimentary matter, in the other mixed with blood and putrid, and from the latter being contagious, the other not.[ 413 ] DIA DIA Diarrhoea may be occasioned by the applica- tion of cold to the surface of the body, suppi'essed perspiration, passions of the mind, acrid indi- gestible aliment, sour fruit, oily and putrid substances, the abuse of active purgatives, worms, retrocedent gout or rheumatism, and from a variety of other causes. In the treatment of diarrhoea it is usual to ' begin by giving an emetic of ipecacuanha in the evening, to cleanse the stomach and to promote all the natural secretions, and some gently as- tringent and acid opening medicine the next morning, such as rhubarb, 1 scruple ; magnesia, 80 grains. Make a powder, to be taken in a glass of cinnamon water; or castor oil or purging salts in the usual doses, drinking plentifully of diluent and demulcent drinks, such as linseed tea, barley water, mutton suet dissolved in milk, toast and water, and the like. Bathing the feet in warm water at night, taking at bedtime 10 grains of James's powder, ■should the disease have proceeded from ob- structed perspiration in consequence of exposure to cold, will be attended with much benefit. Strong purgatives in this disease are found to be improper, and ought only to be employed where it arises in consequence of a tenacious acrimony adhering to the intestines ; in this case Epsom or other neutral salts will be the most proper. Should the complamt have pro- ceeded from poisonous substances taken into the stomach the patient must drink plentifully of diluent liquors, with fat broths to promote vomiting, and a purge of castor oil immediately afterwards to carry the remainder downwards, after the operation of which from twenty to thirty drops of the tincture of opium may be taken to allay the irritation of the bowels. When it is occasioned by gout repelled from the extremities the latter must be invited back again to these parts by means of fomentations, poultices, or blisters, promoting at the same time perspiration by drinking plentifully of wine whey. Should these means prove ineffectual give compound tincture of rhubarb, 1 oz., after which the following absorbent mixture :—Take chalk mixture, 4 ozs.; spirit of cinnamon, 1 oz.; solution of the carbonate of ammonia, 1 drachm; tincture of opium, 24 drops ; two table-spoonsful of which are to be taken occa- sionally. Or, take compound powder of chalk with opium, 15 grains ; confection of roses enough to make a bolus, which may be taken twice a day, using a pint of the mixture of burnt harts- horn for ordinary drink. Either of the preceding absorbent remedies may be used, after the bowels have been evacu- ated, to subdue the irritability which accom- panies the disease. Should a looseness be caused by worms, which may be known from the sameness of the stools, mixed with pieces of decayed worms, the medi- cines advised under the head of Wor.ms must be given to carry them off. If it proceeds from un- wholesome water the addition of a small quantity of chalk or quicklime may correct it. When looseness is an attendant on teething it should never be stopped unless it goes so far as to debilitate or otherwise hurt the child. In this case four or five grains of toasted rhubai-b, with from eight to ten of prepared chalk or magnesia, given, and repeated if necessary, three or four times, will generally correct the acidity, and put an end to the griping stools. Should a looseness return frequently during dentition, or upon the striking in of some eruption upon the skin, it will be proper to procure a slight discharge from behind the ears, or to apply a Burgundy pitch plaster to the back. For the former a piece of tape drawn through a small bit of the plaster of Spanish flies may be placed behind the ears, or the part may be rubbed with finely powdered Spanish flies until it excoriates. A looseness that is likely to prove critical or salutary should by no means be. inconsiderately checked, but when it attacks pregnant women it must be immediately stopped by the most powerful means. To suspend the increased action of the intestines, which constitutes the disease, opiates may be given, either separately in small and repeated doses, or combined with whatever other medicines it may be proper to give. They may therefore be given with absorbents, as in the preceding, or with astringents, joined with aromatics and tonics; e.g.:—Take powdered alum and extract of catechu, of each 10 grains; opium, \ grain ; confection of roses enough to make a bolus, to be taken three or four times a day. Or, take kino, 10 grains; compound powder of chalk with opium, 15 grains; syrup of poppies enough to make a bolus, to be taken every fourth or sixth hour. Or, take chalk mixture, 5 ozs. ; extract of logwood, ^ drachm ; pimento water, '2 ozs.; tincture of kino, 1 drachm; syrup of ginger, 2 drachms. The dose of this may be two table-spoonsful three or four times a day. It may be superfluous to repeat that an emetic of ipecacuanha, with some stomachic purge, such as rhubarb, should always precede the use of every other remedy in this disease. The medicines most proper to restore the tone of the intestines at the termination of the disease are the Peruvian bark, calumba root, quassia, siraarouba, uusparia, iron, steel, &c., as recom- mended under Dyspepsia. Light nutritive diet of lamb, chicken, or rabbit, with moderate exer- cise, together with a proper quantity of port wine or sherry, or weak brandy and water where neither of the former may agree, for common drinis instead of malt liquors; andDIE [ 414 ] DIE from -whatever cause this disease may proceed, ■whenever it may be found necessary to check it (and here some discrimination is requisite), the diet should consist as above, ^vith rice boiled in milk, and flavoured with cinnamon, sago, Indian arrowroot, and the like. Those who are liable to frequent I'eturns of diarrhoea should live tem- perately, avoiding every exciting cause likely to reproduce it. DIET is a regimen or course of living adapted both to the preservation of health and its re- covery, especially from chronical diseases. The dietetic treatment ought to he con- formable to the different constitutions of in- dividuals. Those whose solids are relaxed and weak should avoid all tough or viscid food, and such as is difficult to be digested. Their nutri- ment, however, ought to be substantial, and they should take frequent exei'cise in the open air. The plethoric, or those who abound with blood, cannot more effectually consult their health than by a spnring use of whatever is in a high degree nourisliing, as fat meat, rich wines, strong ale, &o. Their aliment should consist chiefly of bread or other vegetables, and their drink of water, whey, or small beer. See Coe- PDLENCY. Persons of a lean habit ought to follow a course directly opposite to that before suggested. Those who are troubled with acidity should live chiefly on solid meat, and those afflicted with hot alkaline eructations should principally use acid vegetables. Invalids subject to the gout, to low spirits, to hypochondriac or hysteric disorders, should avoid all flatulent food, as also salted or smoke-dried provisions, and whatever is difficult of digestion or apt to turn sour and rancid on the stomach. Their food should be light, spare, cool, and of an opening nature. Another important object to be considered is the manner of life and age, together with the season and constitution. Those whose inclina- tion, business, or profession leads them to a sedentary life ought to be more sparing as to the quantity, and more attentive to the quality of their aliment than others whose pursuits are widely different, or who are accustomed to take much exercise. The former ought particularly to avoid the use of everything that is sour, flatulent, rancid, and oppressive to the digestive organs. Persons liable to particular diseases should be cautious in eating whatever tends to aggravate them. The gouty, for instance, should avoid drinking rich wines,' strong soups, or acids. Those who are subject to the gravel ought to shun all austere and astringent aliments; nor should the scorbutic indulge in animal food. The aliment in early life ought to be light, nourishing, and taken frequently, but in modera- tion ; that of adults should be solid and suffi- ciently tenacious; and the diet proper for those advanced in life should resemble that of in- fancy. At every period of life gluttony should be sedulously avoided, for, not unlike too great abstinence, it destroys the powers of digestion ; but the moderate repetition of aliment is neces- sary for restoring the continual waste of the body. Diet ought also to be regulated according to the different seasons of the year, because varia- tions in the atmosphere produce corresponding changes in animal bodies. In consequence of the increased elasticity of the air in the winter the fibres are stronger, and better qualified for performing their various functions, and for digesting the stronger kinds of food. If there be no particular reason for the contrary generous wines and wholesome ale, together with warm broths and infusions, may be then taken to pro- mote the insensible perspiration, which is in some degree checked, as the cold air remarkably contracts the cutaneous pores. Some attention should also be paid to this circumstance, that the perspiration bear a due proportion to the liquid and solid nutriment consumed. In the spring the quantity of food ought to be somewhat diminished, and an additional allowance of the liquor usually druuk might be granted. In autumn similar regulations are to be observed as in the spring, because the moisture and density of the air are nearly the same, and the weather is equally variable, so that perspiiation is easily obstructed. During the summer health may be most effectually pre- served by vegetables and diluent liquors. Con- siderable care should be taken to abstain from provisions that are heavy and difficult to be digested, but especially from wine and brandy. The feeble and convalescent ought to eat fre- quently, and but little at a time. The number of meals should be proportioned to the weakness of their frame, for it is far less hurtful to a de- bilitated person to eat a few mouthsful every hour than to make two or three hearty meals in one day. An exception, however, ought to be made with respect to those who are naturally of a delicate and irritable constitution. See Ali- ment. DIET BREAD. Sift lib. of fine flour, and dry it thoroughly by the fire; beat up eight eggs for a short time, and then add gradually 1 lb. of beaten and sifted loaf sugar. Continue beating them together an hour and a half; then strew the flour on cold, with J oz. of caraway and coriander seeds mixed together and slightly bruised. The beating must be continued till the whole is put into the mould or hoop, and set in a quick, but not too hot oven. An hour will bake it sufficiently.[ 415 ] DIL DIE DIET CAKE. Boil in half a pint of water 1^ lb. of lump sugar in a pan; have at hand one pint of eggs broken (three parts 3'olks), pour in the sugar, and whisk till cold; then stir in - 2 lbs. of sifted flour, cover some square tins with white paper, fill them about three parts full, sift a little sugar over, bake them in a warm oven, and while hot take them out of the moulds. DIET DETNK is used in eruptive diseases, and by some mothers is given to their children every spring. It may be made according to either of the following recipes :—Take wood of guaiacum, 1^ oz.; China root and sarsaparilla root, of each 2 ozs.; wood of sassafras, 3 drachms; dried liquorice root, 6 drachms. For three quarts of water. Or, take wood of guaiacum, sarsaparilla root, and China root, of each 1 oz. ; senna leaves, the best, ^ oz.; rhubarb, 2 drachms. For four quarts of water; to which add, before it is boiled, subcarbonate of potash, 1 drachm; crude antimony, 4 ozs. DIGESTION, See Appetite. DIGITALIS. By this name is known medicine prepared in various forms from the leaves of the iox^ove (Digitalis purpurea). It is directly sedative, althovigh some maintain the contrary opinion, diminishing the fi'equencyof the pulse and the general irritability of the system, and increasing the action of the absorbents and the discharge by urine. The effects appear to be in a great degree connected with its sensible influence upon the body, which is indicated by feelings of slight nausea and languor. Accord- ingly every attempt to prevent these unpleasant effects, or to correct the operation of digitalis by combining it with aromatic or stimulant medicines, seems to be fatal to the diuretic powers of the remedy. Digitalis has considerable influence over the action of the heart, and in certain diseases attended with inordinate motions of that organ it proves eminently serviceable. It has been employed with great satisfaction in cases of palpitation connected with a state of general irritability, which so frequently occurs in female disorders. In substance, tincture, or infusion ; the latter form is most efficient as a diuretic. • Dose of the powdered leaves, 1 grain, in a pill twice a day. The augmentation of the dose should proceed at the rate of one fourth of the original quantity every second day until its operation becomes apparent, either on the kid- neys or on the constitution generally. If it produce such a disturbance as to occasion vomit- ing or purging its diuretic powers will be lost. In such a case the addition of a small portion of opium or opiate confection may be expedient. The distressing effects of an overdose are best counteracted by tincture of opium in brandy and water, and by the application of a blister to the pit of the stomach. It is very important that the leaves of this plant be properly collected and accurately pre- served. They should be gathered when the plant is beginning to flower, and, as it is biennial, in the second year of its growth. The largest and deepest-coloured flowers should be selected, for they are the most powerful. They should be also carefully dried until they become crisp, or they will lose much of their virtue. The too common method of tying them in bundles and hanging them up to dry should be avoided, for a fermentation is produced by such means, and the parts least exposed soon become rotten. The powdered leaves ought to be pre- served in opaque bottles, and kept from the action of light, as well as of air and moisture. A damp atmosphere has a very injurious opera- tion, by carrying off those faint poisonous effluvia with which its efficacy seems to be intimately connected. DILL {Anethum graveolens). The seeds are the parts employed. They have, when dry, an aromatic sweetish odour and a warm pungent taste, qualities residing in an essential oil, which is extracted by distillation with water and by digestion with alcohol. The bruised seeds yield their flavour to boiling water by simple infusion. The seeds are but rarely used. The distilled water is a valuable carminative for children. DILL WATER is made by pouring upon 1 lb. of bruised dill seed 6 quarts of water, and 2 fluid ozs. of spirit of wine ; put into the still, and distil over a gallon. Dose for an infant, a table-spoonful, as a relief from flatulency. DILUENTS. These are liquids of a mild qiiality, and which have a tendency to diminish thirst and the thickness of the secretions. Of this description are toast and water, acidu- lated liquids, tea, and water gruel. Toast and water is made by pouring on toasted bread a sufiicient quantity of boiling water. The clear liquor is afterwards decanted for use. Acidulated liquids are such as a combination of lemon juice, water, and sugar, or what ia called lemonade. They are also water made acidulous with currant jelly, or other such simple means. Tea as a diluent may be formed from an in- fusion of that imported from China, or it may be such as is made by boiling apples in a suitable quantity of water. Water gruel so appropriated should be sim- ply a small portion of oatmeal boiled in a lai'ge quantity of water. Diluting liquids may be had recourse to as common drink in colds, inflammatory diseases, and internal local inflammations.[ 416 ] DIN DIN DINNER, ENGLISH (fob Ten or Twelve). White soup, cod's head and shoulders crimped, succeeded by saddle of mutton that has hung a fortnight, and boiled turkey or chickens top and bottom. The two middle dishes should be tongue highly glazed and heef a la mode. The side dishes should be curry, sweetbreads with white sauce, lamb cut- lets breaded, and patties. For the second course a couple of pheasants and snipes for the top and bottom. The snipes to be removed, and an omelette take their place. For the middle dishes gooseberry tart and a soujfle. The side dishes, jelly, blanc-manger, tipsy cake, and French pastry. You will see by this bill of fare that much of the second course can be prepared the day before, which, unless you have a large establishment, is a great advantage. The White Soup. Take a knuckle of veal, four large onions sliced, a carrot, three turnips, a head of celery cut up, some white pepper, and a little salt; boil all together the day before for some hours in a closely covered saucepan, strain it off, and the next morning you will find it in a jelly; skim the fat off, and you have the stock ready for any white soup you may require. If it is to be a simple " white soup " you must thicken it in the following manner:—Take a stale slice of white bread, and boil it till quite smooth in a little of the stock ; ■ then add four dozen almonds pounded very smoothly, and half a pint of ci'eam; warm this altogether with a little spice, but do not let it boil after the cream is in. When this soup is ready to send up stir the thickening into it, and you will find it very good. ' If you wish artichoke or celery soup you have only to boil the vegetables till quite soft, pass them through a sieve, and add them to the stock instead of the " thickening." Cod's Head and Shoulder. The only re- mark necessary for the cod's head and shoulder is that it should be " crimped," and served with oyster sauce. The water should boil before the fish is put in, and to every six quarts of water allow l^lb. of salt. A good-sized head will take about half an hour to dress. The fish should be laid on a napkin, and the dish gar- nished with slices of lemon. In many houses the fish is now covered with a napkin nicely folded instead of a cover. If you have silver dishes with hot water under them it saves the cook some trouble to have them on the table before dinner is an- nounced, taking care that the water is quite boiling. The side dishes are sweetbreads, cuiTy, lamb chops, and patties. - The Sweetbreads must be soaked for three hours in warm water; then blanch them for four minutes in boiling water, and stew them in a rich white sauce until they are quite tender. Three good-sized sweetbreads are sufficient for a dish, and you may either cut them in half before putting them on the dish, or send them up whole. If they are cut it must be doue with a veij sharp knife, or they will look untidy. CuRRT can be made with the remains of any cold joint; but, if easily procured, we prefer a rabbit curry to any other. It absorbs the flavour of the powder better than anything else. The following receipt for making it was given by a person who had lived much in India, and is always much liked. The receipt may be sent to a chemist you can depend on; but it will be much cheaper to buy the articles and make it at home. The only art in making it is to pound and sift it very finely:—Coriander seed, 4 ozs.; white pepper, 1 oz.; Cayenne pepper, J oz.; cumin seed, f oz.; turmeric, 2 ozs.; and dried chillies, ^ oz. Pound all the ingredients together, and sift them through fine muslin. Keep the powder closely corked and in a dry place. The rabbit must be cut into small pieces frea from bone, which put into a stewpan, with two large onions, one apple cut into small dice, and half the juice of a lemon; when nicely browned add two large tea-spoonsful of the powder, a little floui', and half a pint of rich stock; cover very closely, and stew it till quite tender. Have ready some rice boiled thus:—To each tea- cupful of rice add two of water and a little salt; let it boil twenty minutes without stirring it, then set it by the side of the fire, closely covered, for a quarter of an hour, and the steam will finish it. Put this rice round your dish, leaving room in the centre for the curry. Be very careful it is sent to table " piping hot." Patties should be served with a doily at the bottom of the dish. The number sent to table depends on the size of your cutters: six is a good number. The best pasting for them is the following:—1 lb. of dried and sifted flour, half the juice of a lemon, and the yolk of one egg; mix with a very little cold water, roll it out, and lay on the paste ^ lb. of lard and ^ lb. of butter. It must be rolled out eight or ten times, and at each turn add some of the butter and lard. Touch it as little as possible. The patties can be filled with any meat you please ; but whatever it may be it is better pounded in a mortar, and it must be highly seasoned. Add a tea-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce or tomato sauce to the forcemeat; indeed, to any made dish it is a great improvement. The Lamb Chops must be cut from the neck, the bone cut veiy short, and the meat nicely trimmed; season with pepper and salt, egg them once, and dip them into very finely sifted bread crumbs; beat them gently into a goodC 1 DIN 8?iape, and have ready some melted butter, into which put for a moment each cutlet; again sprinkle them with bread crumbs and egg, and fry tbem until a light brown. When done drain them on a sieve before the fire for a minute. Place some stewed cucumbers or spinach in a heap in the middle of your dish, and lay the chops round it. A very small and neatly cut ■ paper frill at the end of each bone is a pretty fiuish, but you must be careful it does not look greasy. For the middle dishes beef a la mode and tongue. Bjsef a la Mode. About 6 lbs. of beef without bone is a pretty size for a middle dish. It should be larded with fat bacon, and stewed many hours very slowly with three or four onions, two carrots, one head of celery, a little spice, pepper, and salt. When very tender take it off the fire, and let it stand till cold. Have ready a rich brown gravy, and some carrots and turnips cut into different shapes. To this add a glass of sherry, and when you have skimmed the fat from the beef stew it slowly again for nearly an hour in the gravy. Serve it with plenty of nicely cut vegetables, and have it highly glazed. The Tongue must also be jrjazed and orna- mented with a neatly cut frill, and a wall of very white rice round it. Dish Decokations. The second course of a pinner is the one in which the good taste of tho cook can be shown. Each dish should be orna- mented in some way or another. Flowers always strike us as having the prettiest effect, for with them you en contrast the colours so ^ell. Thus on a blanc-manger place scarlet geraniums or verbenas; on a jelly some white flower, as the white erica, or the small buds of a white rose ; but unless you have a green- house such an embellishment is impossible at all seasons of the year. If you happeu to have a barberry tree you will find the red bunches of berries very pretty, and very useful for the ornamental part of the dinner, and if kept in salt and water they will look fresh for a long time. Pretty ornaments can be made, after a little practice, from the dried citron or lemon- peel, and also from fresh oranges and lemons. If you can manage nothing else thin slices of lemon placed on each other round a highly coloured jelly look far better than the bare dish. FiVen if the cook succeeds in flavouring every- thing to the " palate of perfection," yet, if the Jesuit of her labour is turned on to a dish, and •left there without any additions, the appearance ^of the dinner will be a failure. Having said this much on " garnishing " we must lower our thoughts a little, and turn our attention to a few receipts. Game must be very carefully " basted" and floured before sending it to table. Bread Sauce. The following proportions are excellent;—^A small bit of onion chopped finely, boiled in a table-spoonful of water, with some white peppercorns; strain it, and add a tea-cupful of very thin cream, three table- spoonsful of very finely grated bread, a little ground pepper, and salt; boil up once only. The Jelly is the dish which requires most attention in the dinner. It must be made the day before, and in the following manner :— Take two calves' feet cut into pieces; simmer in three quarts of water for five or six hours, care being taken that it is skimmed frequently; strain it through a sieve, and when cold take off all the fat very carefully, and wipe the top of the jelly quite dry with a cloth; put it into a stewpan, with the juice of four lemons, the rinds of two, ^ lb. of white sugar, a few grains of cochineal, a small pinch of saffron, and half a stick of cinnamon; whisk the whites of five eggs, and add them and the shells to the jelly; continue whisking till it boils, when add three wine-glassesful of white wine ; let it run twice through a jelly bag, in order to have it quite clear; pour it whilst hot into a mould. A very pretty addition to a jelly is to place pre- served strawberries or bunches of currants in a wreath round the mould, pouring a little jelly in first; then place the fruit and add more jelly ; continue this until the mould is full. If the jelly is not all eaten at table the cook should put it into a basin, round which is boiling water. It will then soon melt, and should be poured into a small mould. The remains thus - make a pretty luncheon dish the next day. Blanc-manger is not such a troublesome dish to make as the jelly. To one quart of thin cream add 1 oz. of isinglass, i lb. of white sugar, half the peel of a lemon cut very thin, and four laurel leaves ; simmer over a slow fire till the isinglass is melted; strain it through a very fine sieve, and pour it into a mould. A pretty dish can also be made from the remains of the blanc-manger:—Cut it into slices (with a silver knife) about the thickness of two fingers; : have a dish of stewed pears or apples ready, and place these slices round them. Blanc- manger made with arrowroot instead of isinglass is a very wholesome dish, and much more economical. It requires some little care whilst boiling, or it is apt to burn. The proportions are these:—Mix nearly 3 ozs. of arrowroot in a little cold milk ; boil a quart of milk sweetened to your taste with the lemon-peel and laurel leaves ; when quite boiling take the leaves out, and pour the milk on to the arrowroot, stirring it all the time; put it immediately into a mould- fitiA tiivr) it out next day. This you ' 2 e" "[ 418 ] DIN DIN find a very good invalid's disli, and if eaten hot it should be quicl\ly sent up. Those who have watclied by the couch of one recovering from an illness will know the kind of impatience there is to obtain the fancied dish, and how the desire for it fades away if kept waiting till the usual hour strikes. Souffi.es require great care in making, tut they certainly repay the trouble given. Tliey can be flavoured with almost anything. If you have not a souffle case you must line a pie mould with a crust of jiastry, fill it with flour to keep it in its place, and bake it a light brown. This case is tn hold the souffle, which is to be made in the following manner:—Take ^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of ground rice or arrowroot, and any flavouring you like ; add nearly a quart of milk, and boil the whole together. Have ready the yolks of five eggs well beaten and sweetened to your taste, and stir it in quickly; set it by till cold, when add the whites of the eggs, which should have been previously well whisked. Wrap a piece of buttered pnper round the "case," into which pour the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven for about an hour. It must be sent to table the moment it is out of the oven, or it will sink. A napkin should be nicely folded and placed on the dish ready to receive the " case." Fkencu Pastry is a very simple dish. It is merely to cut some puff paste into " fingers," and on these place different coloured jams, such as apricot, strawberry, and red currantjelly. Whip into a very stiff froth the whites of three eggs, and throw into the " whip" a few of the cointits which are sold under the name of " hundreds and thousands." Place the "fingers" in a pretty manner on the dish, and between them put the white froth. Tipsy Cake. The fourth corner dish is also one which can be prepared the day before. Make a sponge cake, soak it for some hours in any white wine, with a glass of brandy added to it. When quite soft have some almonds ready blanched, and stick them all round the cake so as to give it the appearance of a porcupine. Cut some citron-peel into very narrow strips, and put a circle round the bottom of the cake, so as to form loops. Have a custard ready, and when the cake is placed on the dish in which it is to be sent to table potu' the custard round, but not over it. The following is the receipt for the custard:—One pint and a half of new milk and half a pint of-cream, boiled with white sugar and laurel leaves. When almost cold stir in the yolks of six eggs very much beaten ; keep it near a slow fire till it thickens, stirring it one way all the time, but do not let it boil. DINKER, FEEKCH. A great dinner, ac- fcording to Grimod, in his Almanac des Gour- mands, whose opinion is considered to be con- clusive in such matters, ought to consist of four services:—1. The soups, tlie hors d'ceuvres, releves, and entrees. 2. The roast meats and salads. 3. The cold pastry and entremets. 4. The dessert. During winter a good French dinner often begins with oysters, which are uniformly ac- companied with white wine, especially Chablis, particularly agreeable on that occasion. The use of red wine with oysters would show a great want of savoir vivrc, and is even pernicious to the health, as it generally produces indigestion. Thei'e is no P'rench dinner without soup at the commencement, which is regarded as a necessary preparation of the stomach fur the dua digestion of more solid food. It is commonly followed by a libation of ordinary wine, the coup d'apres, which is considered so wholesome after soup that the proverb says the physician thus loses a fee. The soup is constantly followed by boiled beef (the houilli). which is, however, sometimes preceded by anchovies, to stimulate the palate and appetite. Small plates of radishes, eggs, &c., with butter of Bretagne in little pots, form what are called the hors d'ceuvres, or extraordinaries; but the delicious pastry called petits pates usually follow the boiled beef. The hors d'ceuvres are followed by entrees of fowl in various shapes, fricassees, fricandeaux, cutlets, sweetbreads, &c. The vegetables are served apart, and eaten by themselves. A great singularity of the French table is that fish is served late, and not always at the same time ; for they in general bring together all the boiled articles, whether fish or flesh, and all the roasted articles of both sorts. Some- times fish dressed warm may be eaten in the course of the second or third service ; but the fish is often cold, and accompanies or follows the roti. This custom is said to be more agi'eeable to the stomach than our fashion of beginning with the fish, which the French consider to be a crude food of little nutrition, and often of difficult digestion, not being much acquainted with the superior sorts produced in other places, nor how much better they are consumed in a hot than iu a cold state. In consequence of this arrangement, and the aid of a variety of the most generous wines that France, Spain, Hungary, or other countries can produce, the consumption of the table is very great, and it is said that a person who leaves England with so weak a stomach that it has long refused the luxury of two dishes may, with- out inconvenience, taste of twenty at a French repast.DIS DIN [ 419 ] All this must be very acceptable to those to whom the pleasures of the table are a favourite, and perhaps a pre-eminent object; but it cannot ultimately teed to promote health or longevity. In regard to dinners in this country they are in general too quickly gone through. Too much meat is put upon the table at once, and sufficient time is not allowed to masticate the food pro- perly; nor should each division of dishes be hurried upon the table, as well as from it, but an interval allowed for conversation to give the stomach some rest, and not to overload it too much at once, which necessarily occasions a defective digestion. DINNER PILLS (Lady Webster's). See Cekspignys (Lady) Pills. DIPPEL'S OIL is slowly distilled from oil of hartshorn. It is antispasmodic, soothing, and promotive of pei'spiration if given in doses of from ten to thirty drops in water. In large doses it is violently poisonous. DISLOCATIONS. When a bone is moved out of its place or articulation so as to impede its proper functions it is said lo be limiled or dislocated. As this often happens to persons in situations where no medical assistance can be obtained, by which means limbs and even lives are frequently lost, we shall endeavour to point out the method of reducing the most common luxations, and those which require immediate assistance. Any person of common sense and resolution, who is present when a dislocation happens, may often be of nore service to the patient than the most expert surgeon can after the swelling and inflammation have come on. When these are present it is difficult to know the state of the joint, and dangerous to attempt a reduction, and by waiting till they are gone off the muscles become so relaxed, and the cavity filled up, that the bone can never after- wards be retained in its place. A recent dislocation may generally be reduced by extension alone, which must always be greater or less according to the strength of the muscles which move the joint, the age, robustness, and other circumstances of the patient. When the bone has been out of its place for any consider- able time, and a swelling or inflammation has come on, it will be necessary to bleed the patient, and, after fomenting the part, to apply soft poul- tices with vinegar to it for some time before the reduction is attempted. All that is necessary after the reduction is to apply cloths dipped in vinegar or camphorated spirits of wine to the part, and to keep it perfectly easy : many bad consequences proceed from the neglect of this rule. A dislocation seldom happens without the tendons and ligaments of the jonit being stretched, and sometimes torn. ^ Wheu these aie kept easy till they recover their strength and tone all goes on very well, but if the injuiy be increased by too frequent an exer- tion of the parts, no wonder if they be found weak and diseased ever after. Dislocation of the jaw. The lower jaw may be luxated by yawning, blows, falls, chewing hai-d substances, or the like. It is easily known from the patient's being I'.nable to shut his mouth or to eat anything, as the teeth of the under jaw do not correspond with those of the upper; besides, the chin either hangs down or is thrown towards one side, and the patient is neither able to speak distinctly nor to swallow without considerable difficulty. The usual method of reducing a dislocated jaw is to set the patient upon a low stool, so as an assistant may hold the head firmly by pressing it against his breast. The operator is then to thrust his two thumbs, being first wrapped up with linen cloths that they may not slip, as far back into the patient's mouth as he can, whila his fingers are applied to the jaw externally. After he has got firm hold of the jaw he is to press it strongly downwards and backwards, by which means the elapsed beads of the jaw may be easily pushed into their former cavities. Dislocation of the neck. The neck may be dislocated by falls, violent blows, or the like. In this case, if the patient receives no assistance, he soon dies, which makes people imagine tho neck was broken ; it is, however, for the most part only partially dislocated, and may be re- duced by almost any person who has resolution enough to attempt it. A complete dislocation of the neck is instantaneous death. When the neck is dislocated the patient is immediately deprived of all sense and motion, his neck swells, his countenance appears bloated, his chin lies upon his breast, and his face ig - generally turned towards one side. To reduce this dislocation the unhappy person should immediately be laid upon his back on the ground, and the operator must place himself behind him, so as to be able to lay hold of his head with both hands, while he makes a resist- ance by placing his knees against the patient's shoulders. In this posture he must pull the head with considerable force, gently twisting it at the same time, if the face be turned to onft side, till he perceives that the joint is replaced, which may be known from the noise the bones generally make when going in, the patient's beginning to breathe, and the head continuing in its natural posture. After the neck is reduced the patient ought to be bled, and should be suffered to rest for some days till the parts recover their proper tone. Dislocation of the ribs. As the articulatioa of the ribs with the back-bone is very strong.I 420 ] they are not often dislocated. It does, however, sometimos happen, which is a sufficient reason for our taking notice of it. When a rib is dis- located either upwards or downwards, in order to replace it the patient should be laid upon his bell^' on a table, and the operator must endeavour to push tlie head of the bone into its proper place. Should this method not succeed the arm of the disordered side may be suspended over a gate or ladder, and while the ribs are thus stretched asunder the heads of such as are out of place may be thrust into their former situation. Those dislocations wherein the heads of the ribs are forced inwards are both more dangerous and the most difficult to reduce, as neither the hand nor any instrument can be applied internally to direct the luxated heads of the ribs. Almost the only thing that can be done is to lay the patient upon his belly over a cask or some gibbous body, and to move the fore part of the rib inward towards the back, sometimes shaking it: by this means the heads of the luxated ribs may slip into their former place. Dislocation of the shoulder. The humerus, or upper bone of the arm, may be dislocated in various directions; it happens, however, most frequently downwards, but very seldom directly upwards. From the nature of its articulation, as well as from its exposure to external injuries, this bone is the most subject to dislocation of any in the body. A dislocation of the humerus may be known by a depression or cavity on the top of the shoulder, and an inability to move the arm. When the dislocation is downwards or forwards the arm is elongated, and a ball or lunip is perceived under the armpit; but when it is backwards there appears a protuberance behind the shoulder, and the arm is thrown forwards towards the breast. - The usual method of reducing dislocations of the shoulder is to seat the patient upon a low stool, and to cause an assistant to hold his body so that it may not give way to the extension, while another lays hold of the arm a little above the elbow, and gradually extends it. The operator then puts a napkin under the patient's arm, and causes it to be tied behind his own neck: by this, while a sufficient extension is made, he lifts up the head of the bone, and with his hands directs it into its proper place. There are various machines invented for facilitating this operation, but the hand of an expert surgeon is always more safe. In young and delicate .patients it is a very easy matter to reduce the shoulder by extending the arm with one hand, and thrusting in the head of the bone with the other. In making the extension the arm ought .always to be a little bent. Dislocation .of the elbow. The bones of tlie fore-arrii may be dislocated in any direction. When this is the case a protuberance may be observed on that side of the arm towards which the bone is pushed, from which and the patient's inability to bend his arm a dislocation of this joint may easily be known. Two assistants are generally necessary for reducing a dislocation of the elbow : one of them must lay hold of the arm above, and the other below the joint, and make a pretty strong extension, while the operator returns the bones into their proper place. Afterwards the arm must be bent, and suspended for some time with a sling about the neck. Luxations of the wrist and fingers are to be reduced in the same manner as those of the elbow, viz., by making an extension in different directions, and thrusting the head of the bone into its place. Dislocation of the clavicle, or collar-hone. The clavicle may be luxated at the end next the breast-bone extremity, forwards, backwards, and upwards, but never downwards, on account of the situation of the cartilage of the first rib. The luxation forward is most frequent, and almost the only one ever met with. In reducing these dislocations of the sternal end of the clavicle a lever is to be made of the arm, by means of which the shoulder is to be brought outwards, and when thus brought out- wards it is to be pushed forwards if the dis- location be in that direction, backward if the dislocation be behind, and upward if it be above. It is as difficult to keep the bone reduced as it is easy to reduce it, so smooth and oblique are the articular surfaces. Disloca- tions of the capsular end of the clavicle, or that nearest the shoulder-joint, are muchless common. The luxation upwards is the only one that ever occurs, and this is reduced by carrying the shoulder outwards, putting a cushion in the axilla, and applying a proper bandage, as in fractures of this bone, making the turns ascend from the elbow to the shoulder, so as to press the luxated end of the bone downward, and keep it in its due situation, at the same time that the elbow is confined close to the side, and supported in a sling, by which means the shoulder will be kept raised and inclined outwards. Dislocation of the patella, or knee-pan. This bone may be luxated outwards, or even inwards when violently pushed in this direction. The dislocation outwards is the more frequent. The generality of cases of this description are easily reduced by pressure when the extensor muscles of the leg have been completely relaxed; but, owing to a lax state of the ligament of the patella, or other predisposing causes, the bone is sometimes with difficulty retained in its proper position unless a roller be applied.Dig C: 421 ]; The inflammatory affection of the joint is to be opposed by topical bleeding, purging, and the use of evaporating lotions. The joint must be kept quiet a few days, and then gently moved to prevent stiffness. Dislocation of the thigh. The head of the tbigh-bone may be dislocated upwards (on the dorsum of the ilium), upwards and forwards (on the body of the os pubis), downwards and forwards (on the foramen ovale), and backwards (on the ischiatic notch). The dislocation upward and backward, and that downward and forward are the most frequent. . When the thigh-bone is dislocated forwai'd and downward the knee and foot are turned out, and the leg is longer than the other; but when it is displaced backward it is usually pushed upwards at the same time, by which means the limb is shortened and the foot is turned inwards. When the thigh-bone is displaced forward and downward the patient, in order to have it reduced, must be laid upon his back, and made fast by bandages, or held by assistants, while by others a gradual and unremitting extension is made by means of slings, or a pulley fixed about the bottom of the thigh a little above the knee, a sheet folded longitudinally being first placed under the perinaeum, or fork, and one end carried behind the patient, the other before hira : they are to be fastened to one of the legs or posts of the bed, or other more secure part. While the extension is making the operator must push the head of the bone outward, or as the circum- stances of the case may require, till it gets into the socket. If the dislocation be outward the patient must be laid upon his face, and during the extension the head of the bone must be pushed inward. Dislocations of the knees, ankles, and toes are reduced much in the same manner as those of the upper extremities, viz., by making an extension in opposite directions, while the operator replaces the bones. In many cases, however, the extension alone is sufficient, and the bone will slip into its place merely by pulling the limb with sufficient force. It is not hereby meant that force alone is sufficient for the reduction of dislocation. Skill and address will often succeed better than force. When the force of the muscles in very robust persons resists every effort to reduce a dis- located limb a grain or two of emetic tartar dissolved in water may be administered, and, taking advantage of the general languor and debility that precede the act of vomiting, the limb may be reduced with facility, to which may be added bleeding and the warm bath. DISTILLING, or Distillation, is the art of separating or drawing off the spirituous, watery, oily, or saline particles of - a mashed body from the grosser and more earthy parts by the aid of fire, and then collecting and condensing them by the application of cold. With respect to the practical part of distilling^ or refining we shall first observe, that the heat should in all cases be as gentle and uniform as possible. Accidents may be effectually prevented by employing a worm of a proper width, and by rectifying spirits in a water bath, which, if sufficiently large, w ill perform the operation with all the despatch requisite for the most e.xtensive business. The vessel in which the rectification i& effected ought to be immersed in another filled with water up to the neck, and loaded with lead at the bottom, in order to keep it firm and steady. The process will thus be managed as' expeditiously as if the vessel were placed over an open fire, and without the apprehension of being disappointed; nor will it be necessary at any time to raise the water in the bath to a- boiling heat. In the distillation of compound spirits, such- as clove, lemon, citron water, and the like, the' process in no respect varies from that adopted' in distilling brandy, &c. Much, however, de-* pends on the practical attention paid to the following general rules :— 1. The distiller of such liquors must be care-' ful always to employ a pure rectified spiiit, or one freed from its own essential oil; for, as compound v.ater consists of a spirit impregnated with the essential oil of the ingredients, it is requisite that this spirit should have deposited its own oily particles. 2. Let the time of previous digestion be pro- portioned to the tenacity of the ingredients, or the weight of their oil. 3. Let the- strength of the fire also be ade- quate to the weight of the oil intended to be raised with the spirit. 4. Let only a due proportion of the finest p.articles of the essential oil be united with the spirit, as the grosser and less fragrant parts of such oil impart to it an unpleasant taste. This object may in a great measure be effected hy- leaving out the faints, and instead of them viaking up to proof with soft water. '-■ The vessel most commonly employed for the distillation of waters and spirits is the common copper still, which consists of a body for con- taining the materials, and a head into which the vapour ascends. From the middle of the head a tube rises a short way, and is then reflected downwards, through which the steam passes to be condensed. Another kind of head, rising to a great height before it is reflected, is sometimes used for separating fluids which differ little in vola-i tility, as it was supposed that the less volatile' vapours would be condensed, and fall back intoDIS DIS [ 422 ] the still, while only the more volatile vapours would arise to the top, so as to pass to the re- frigeratory. The same ohject may he more conveniently and economically attained by managing the fire with caution and address. The greater the surface exposed, and the less the height the vapours have to ascend, the more rapidly does the distillation proceed; and so well are these principles understood by the - Scotch distillers, that they do not take more than three minutes to discharge a still contain- ing fifty gallons of fluid. The condensing apparatus used with the common still is veiy simple. The tube in which the head terminates is inserted into the ujiper end of a pipe, which is kept cool by passing througli a vessel filled with water, called the refrigeratory, or cooler. This pipe is commonly made of a serpentine form; but, as this renders it difficult to be cleaned, Dr. Black recommends a sigmoid pipe. The refrigeratory may be fur- rished with a stop-cock, that when the water it contains becomes too hot, and does not condense all the vapour produced, it may be changed for cold water. A very convenient condensing apparatus, now xnuch used, is a long straight pipe, which is sur- rounded by another tube considerably wider, vhich acts as a refrigeratory. A stream of water is made to pass through the intervening tpace, entering cold at the remote or lower end, and issuing heated at the upper or near end. ]n all cases the product of the distillation drops from the lower end of the pipe into the vessel destined to receive it; and we may observe that, when any vapour issues along with it, the con- densation is insufficient, and we should either diminish the power of the fire or change the vater in the refrigeratory. The body of the still or retort should never be filled above one-half, sometimes not above one- fourth, to prevent the possibility of boiling or spirting over. The mode of applying heat varies according to the nature of the process. When the liquid to be distilled oyer already exists in the material distilled, and especially wlien it is to be dissolved out of a solid by the action of a volatile menstruum, as in the dis- tilled waters and spirits, the heat should be gradually raised, that the action may be com- plete, and that no volatile matter be for'ced over unimpregnated. When, however, a volatile fluid is to have its nature changed by the chemical action of another substance, as in the formation of ether, the heat must be raised quickly, as otherwise part of the spirit will rise unchanged, not etherifled. Means must also be used to prevent the receiver from being heated by the caloric evolved during the condensation of the va]>ours. It may either be immersed in culd water, or covered witli snow or pounded ice ; or a constant eva- poration may be supported from its surface by covering it with a cloth kept moist by means of the trickling of water, from a vessel jjlaced above it, through minute syphons or spongy worsted threads. But as, during the process of distillation, permanently elastic fluids are often produced, which would endanger the break- ing of the vessels, these are permitted to escape either through a tubulature, or hole in the side of the receiver, or through a hole made in the luting. In most apparatuses for distillation consi- derable waste of heat and time is sustained by a portion of the vapour being condensed in the upper part of the still or retort, and running back into its body, to be distilled over and over again. Therefore this part of the apparatus should never be cooled, as is often done, but kept hot, that as little vapour as possible be condensed until it reaches the condenser. If the above-stated rules were carefully at- tended to this branch of distillation might be rendered more perfect than it is at present; nor would there be any occasion for using burnt alum, isinglass, whites of eggs, Ac, to fine down cordial waters, which, by the process suggested, may be rendered clear, sweet, and of a pleasant flavour without any farther trouble. For the information of those who are unac- quainted with this process we shall here subjoin some directions for making a few of such com- pound waters or spirits as are in more general estimation. CtxRON Watee. Take of the dry yellow rinds of citrons 3 lbs. ; orange-peel, 2 lbs.; braised nutmegs, fib. ; clean proof spirit, 10^ gallons ; water, 1 gallon. Digest them in a moderate heat; then draw off 10 gallons, and add the requisite proportion of fine sugar. Clove Water. Take of bruised cloves 4lbs.; pimento, or allspice, ilb.; proof spirit, 16 gallons. Digest the mixture in a gentle heat, and then draw off 15 gallons with a some' what brisk fire. The water may be coloured red either by a strong tincture of cochineal or of corn poppy dowers, and sweetened at pleasure with double-refined sugar. Lemon Water. Take of dried lemon-peel 4 lbs. ; pure proof spirit, 10^ gallons; water, 1 gallon. Draw off 10 gallons by a gentle fire, and dulcify the compound witii fine sugar. OiiANGE Water. Take of the yellow part of fresh orange-peel 5 lbs.; clean proof sjiirit, lOj gallons ; water, 2 gallons. Draw ofl' 10 gallons over a slow fii'e. Eatafia, which see.DOG DIU [ m ] Other recipes will be found under the names of the liquids distilled. DIURETICS. A term applied to those medi- cines which increase the secretion of urine in the liidneys. The use of diuretics, in general, is indicated by the following circumstances:—■ 1. An interrupted or diminished discharge of urine; but as this complaint may arise from a great diversity of causes, such as spasms, acri- mony of the fluids, relaxation of the solids, pletliora, &c., great circumspection is necessary in the choice of medicines properly adapted to the nature of the case. 2. A natural tendency of the constitution to evacuate the morbid matter of a particular dis- ease by this passage, the symptoms of which are a frequent inclination to maiie water, and a dark, turbid, and copious urine. 3. An earthy, alkaline, scorbutic quality of the fluids. 4. An abundance of aqueous humours in the body in general, or au exU'avasation of them in particular parts. 5. A local accumulation of impurities in the urinary passages. On the contrary, diuretics should never be re- sorted to in the following cases :— 1. In diabetes, or an immoderate and long- continued evacuation of urine. 2. When this fluid is mingled with blood. 3. In inflammations of the kidneys and bladder. 4. In violent spasms, when there is reason to apprehend that stones are confined, or other organic defects prevail, in the urinary canal. 5. In those profuse states of perspiration termed critical. 6. When the patient's body is already defi- cient in aqueous humours. In the same proportion as we make use of thin diluent li(iuors the quantity of urine may be either increased or diminished. Frequent drinking of such watery beverage is, thei'efore, one of the mildest diuretic remedies. This effect may be considerably promoted by the addition of such substances as specifically act upon the kidneys. To this class belong all the mineral waters containing saline ingredients, as well as the juices of mild summer fruit mixed with water, and particularly the sap extracted from the birch tree. Those who are under the influence of diuretic medicines ought to observe a cool rather than a warm regimen, because heat promotes perspira- tion, and lessens the secretion of urine. During the use of such remedies considerable benefit may be obtained by conjoining them with those articles of vegetable nutriment which naturally operate on the kidne^-s. Of this kind are the tops of asparagus and hops, the sweet cicely, lettuce, parsley, celery, all the subacid fruits, such as cherries, currants, raspberries, straw- berries, grapes, mulberries, apricots, peaches, &c. Besides these we possess various and more powerful diuretics among plants ; for instance, the horseradish, onions, and garlic, neither of which, however, ought to be indiscriminately taken. One of the most efficacious remedies of this description is the expressed juice of the common radish, mixed with sugar to the con- sistence of a thin syrup, and taken in doses of one or two spoonsful every three or four hours, or oftener. The medicines which are powerfully diuretic are acetate, nitrate, and bitartrate of potash; oils of cajeput, copaiba, juniper, and turpentine; sweet spirits of nitre, decoction of common broom leaves, and many others. DIXON'S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS. Pound together aloes, I drachm ; powdered rhubarb, 9 scruples; scammony, ^ drachm ; tartar emetic, 10 grains. Make into a mass with syrup of l)uckthorn, and divide into forty-eight pills. Take two at bedtime. DOG. This most useful, sagacious, and faithful friend of man usually lives to the age of fourteen or fifteen years, and seldom survives twenty. The females breed during the first year, and produce from six to twelve puppies, after a gestation of about nine weeks. Those of a small size bring forth five, four, and some- times only two. The whelps are blind, and can- not open their eyes till the tenth or twelfth day. In the fourth month they lose some of their teeth, which are soon succeeded by others. Pkopkr Managemknt of Dogs. As these are at all times very valuable animals it is a matter of some importance to take care of their health. This depends much on their diet and lodging. The frequent cleaning of their kennels and giving them fresh straw for their couch are highly necessary ; or, during the summer, deal shavings may be substituted for straw, as the shavings will prevent the breeding of fleas. If dogs be rubbed with chalk, and brushed and combed once or twice a week, they will thrive much better. The chalk will clear their skin from all greasiness. and they will be less liable to the disorder called mange. Dogs are of a very hot nature. Hence they should always be provided with clean water, that they may drink when thirsty. With respect to food carrion is by no means proper for them, as it must hurt their sense of smelling, in which their excellence in a great measure consists. Barley meal, the grossest part of wheaten flour, or both mixed together with broth or skinuned milk, afford very wholesome nourishment. On account of the sanguine constitution of these•DOG DQM animals the greatest relief to them in summer is couch grass, or dog s grass. Those who keep a complete kennel of dogs ghould purposely cultivate this plant in a place into which they may be turned every morning. Here they ■will eagerly eat it to relieve the uncommon heat of their blood. These animals are liable to various diseases, some of which, and their remedies, will be found in the following notices Alter.\tive Balls. Flour of sulphur, 12ozs.; powdered nitre, 2 ozs.; Elhiops mineral, 1 oz.; treacle sufficient to make a mass. Give a piece the size of a nut to a walnut, according to the size of the dog. Bites and Stings. If dogs ai"e bitten by any venomous reptiles, such as addei's, &c., the blood should be squeezed out, and the part washed with spirit of hartshorn. A plaster composed of calamine pounded in a mortar, and mixed ■with turpentine and yellow wax till it acquires the consistence of a salve, should then be applied to the wound. Canker of the Eaes. The best application for the canker in dogs' ears is an ointment made of burnt alum in fine powder, 1 drachm ; white vitriol in fine powder, 1 drachm; sperma- ceti ointment, 4 ozs. Rub them together for use. Coughs and Colds. Dogs are very subject to a cough attended with extraordinary paroxysms of choking, which is often the consequence of a cold. In this case it will be necessary to bleed the animal affected in small quantities; but if the disorder proceed from what is called the dis- temper in dogs, and they appear to be very low in spirits, blood-letting must not be attempted. Meat broth or milk broth warmed should then be the principal part of their diet, and the following medicine administered :—Take flour of sulphur, cold-drawn linseed oil, and saltpetre, of each 1 oz. ; let them be well mixed together, •and divided into four doses, one of which is to be taken every other day. Meanwhile the creature affected should be furnished with plenty of clean straw to lie upon, and likewise swallow at least one spoonful of honey every day. Cough Balls. Dover's powder, 1 drachm ; nitre, 1 drachm; sulphur, 3 drachms; treacle sufficient to make gix or eight balls. Distemper. Fof the distemper in dogs give the following emetic powder:—Tartar emetic, 20 grains ; calomel, §0 grains ; opium, .5 grains. Mix them together, and give in a piece of butter frpm 2 to .6 grains, according to size. Eyes, Weak. The following wash may be applied for weak eyes in dogs:—White vitriol, .8 grains ; soft water, ^ pint. Mix them together, and apply it with a piece of clean linen rag jpeveral times a day. Give a purging bg,ll. Inflammation of the Bowels. Bleed, after- wards put them into a warm bath, and give the following aperient mixture :—Castor oil, 2 ozs.; syrup of buckthorn, 1 oz. Mix for a dose. Madness. For this no cure is known. Let the animal be destroyed at once. Mange Ointment. Flour of sulphur, 1 lb.; soft soap, 4 ozs,; oil of tar, 1 oz.; train oil, i pint. Mix them together for use. Eub this in carefully with the hand upon the aflected places. Purging Balls. Barbadoes aloes, 2 ozs.; powdered ginger, 2 drachms; calomel, 2 draehms; treacle sufficient to make a mass. The dose 10 grains to 1 drachm, according to the size of the dog. The Scab, or Itch, though a rare disease in dogs, is sometimes very obstinate. It may, however, be easily cured by an ointment made of hog's lard and sulphur, with which a part of the back of the animal should be rubbed every day, and the application gradually extended till the whole back, from head to tail, and at length all the affected parts, have been anointed. Thus the requisite portion of sulphur, which is a specific in those cases, will be introduced into the system both by absorption and the constant licking of the diseased creature. Tonic Balls. Powdered gentian, 2 ozs.; powdered cinchona bark, I oz.; powdered camo- mile flowers, 1 oz.; powdered ginger, a dz. ; treacle sufficient to make a mass. Give from ^ drachm to 1^ drachm for a dose. Worm Balls. Calomel, 1 to 4 grains; pow- dered jalap, 5 to 20 grains ; butter sufficient to make a ball. To be given fasting. Worms. Drench for tvonns in dogs. Spirit of turpentine, 1 to 4 drachms; castor oil, 2 to 8 drachms. Mix for a dose according to size. DOMESTIC SEKVANTS. We shall treat of their duties under the I'espective names of their places, and shall here confine our notes to some plain particulars of the law relating to masters and their domestic servants. The contract for hii-ing a domestic servant is a hiring for a year unless otherwise expressed, and custom has engrafted op tliis contract aeon dilioii that either party may put an end to the service by a month's warning. In hiring a do- mestic servant, therefore, if the mouth's warn- ing is to be dispensed with, or any other to be adopted, it should be so expressed irv uiiliiig, as there might be a difficulty in proving the pre- cise terms of the hiring, and then the general custom would preyail. A book should be kept to enter the terms of hiring every servant, and which he or she should be required to sign, and also to write a receipt for wages eveiy time they are paid : if the amount re(juires a.stamp that precaution shouldBOM DOM be taken. If a dischai'ged servant makes a claim for wages already paid, and if they have been paid by the master personally without a proper receipt, he could not defeat the claim. The term "a month's warning " or " a month's wages " does not entitle the servant to a month's wages when he is dismissed for improper con- duct. It may be difficult to give an accurate definition of the nature of such misconduct as would justify the discharge without the month's wages; but there can he no doubt that in- solence, disobedience of legitimate orders, di'unkenness, dishonesty, immoral conduct, gross neglect of duty, or 'violent temper, would dis- entitle the servant to his claim to a month's wages. On the other hand, occasional careless- ness, forgetfulness, inattention, untidiness, ill health, indifferent or disobliging temper, would not be a forfeiture of the wages. A servant discharged for such gross miscon- duct, strictly speaking, not only forfeits the month's wages, but also his accruing wages ; but it is usual to pay him for the actual time of service. A servant has no right to his livery on his dismissal, either by warning or otherwise ; if, however, he has been permitted to keep his old livery when his new one becomes due, this would be considei'ed as evidence of an agree- ment to that effect, and the master could not compel the servant to give up an old livery in his possession at the time of his discharge, although he might that of the current half year. The custom of giving the month's warning or the month's wages only applies to the hiring of menial or domestic servants, so that when the hiring of a clerk, tutor, governess, traveller, bailiff, &c., is by the year, without any stipulation as to the mode of putting an end to the contract, the party hired has a right to continue in the ser- vice for the whole current yeai-, provided he conducts himself properly, and if discharged without reasonable cause might claim the whole year's salary, although dismissed before the ter- mination of it; and, on the other hand, if he leaves the service without reasonable cause, he would forfeit all claim to remuneration for such portion of the year as he may have been actually in the service. The same principle would apply when the salary is payable half-yearly or quar- terly, so far as regards the right to, or forfeiture of, the current salary. In such cases it is very important to reduce to writing the express terms of the contract, to enable either party to put an end to the service on a reasonable notice. Most people are very indulgent in giving the characters of servants ; we are unwilling to de- prive them of that on which their livelihood depends; we recollect they have many trials and temjjtsttions; that faults may be corrected; that they have no means of compelling their masters to give a character at all; we should, therefore, certainly not exaggerate their fail- ings, while at the same time the truth should not be concealed. If we do err on this point we err on the right side. It is, however, an ill-judged lenity to over- look too often a fault that, if repeated, leads to a habit. Take, for instance, drunkenness, cer- tainly not an uncommon, and decidedly one of the most difficult habits to overcome. It is surely a greater act of kindness to discharge the servant on the first or second accusation than to allow the habit to be formed, by which the character for sobriety is lost. No action will lie against the master for giving a bad character of a servant, even although it be a false one, unless express malice be proved. The giving a character to one who asks for it is in the nature of a privileged com- munication. It is both sought and given for a legitimate purpose; it is intended to be con- fidential, and will be assumed to be given bona fide, and without malice. Few would venture to give the true character of a bad servant if he might be called upon in court to prove his statement. It is only when the character is false and maliciously given that the party is liable to an action. It would be extremely difficult to prove ex- press malice ; but the giving a bad character of a servant to a person about to engage him, who has not applied for any character at all, might be considered as sufficient proof of malice. Such a voluntary and uncalled-for interference would certainly, unless explained, justify sueh an inference. Many persons make it a rule never to take-a written character, or to give a second character of the same servant. It is easy to lay down general rules when a strict adherence to them does not affect ourselves; but there may be many instances where the refusal to give a second character might be highly prejudicial to a good servant; and the objection to take a written character, when its truth and authen- ticity are undoubted, would be equally absurd.' A written character should certainly not be given to the servant hiniself unless under very peculiar circumstances, as it might be misap- plied, and in general the same object is ob- tained by sending the written character to the person applying; but a strict adherence to this rule would sometimes be a hardship, as, for in- stance, when a master is going abroad for a long period, and discharges a good servant for no fault. Liability of masters for the acts of their ser- vants. The master is liable for any damageDOS DO a [ 426 i occasionerl hy the negligence or misconrluRt of his servant, provuled tlie negligence or miscon- duct arises in th« course of the servant's employ- ment. Tims it' a servunt, by negligent driving his master's CHrriage or riding his horse, occa- sions an injury, the master is liable lor the damage arising from such negligence. But the master is not liable for the wilful or malicious act of his servant not done in the execution of his master's orders, as where a servant wilfully strikes another person's horses, and thereby causes an accident, the master would not be liable; so also when a servant has no business with his master's horses, or who, contniry to his ordei's, uses them, and in so doing causes an injury to another, the master •would not be liable. Neither can a master he made liable for the acts of a person who is only under bis tempo- rary control and employment, and who is not strictly speaking his servant; thus a person who hires a carriage and horses with a driver by the day, the hirer would not be responsible for any damage occasioned by the negligence of the driver, for, Although he may be under the temporary control of the hirer, he is not so completely his servant as to render him liable for his acts. The jubman in this case, whose servant the driver is, would be the party liable. Even where a driver and horses have been hired from a jobman for a longer period, as for a month, and the hirer found a livery for the driver, the hirer has been held not to be liable. So also the postmaster, and not the hirer, is responsible for the neglect of the I ostboy. 'I las principle of liability may be applied to (tlier cases where a damage or injury arises from the negligence or misconduct of a servant, and it may be laid down as a general rule that when- ever the servant (being strictly speaking the servant of the master) is under his control, and actine under his orders, the master is liable for 1 is acts. liie servant himself would be responsible whenever the act amounts to a misfeasance or tort, or, in other words, not a mere act of omis- sioii.; but it rarely happens that a person who seeks a pecuninry ciunpensatiou for an injury would apply for redress to the servant when the master is liable.—[ilagazine of Domestic Econovn/.) DOSE. If of any medicine the dose for an adult, or person aged twenty-one vears, be 1 oz. or 1 drachm, then of that medicine for an in- fant seven weeks old the dose would be one- filtei^uth of an ounce or of a drachm, as the case may be. If for a child seven years old, then i oz. or -h drachm, and so varying for different ages as specified ia the following table:—. Ages. Coniii'on (lose, a ciraclitn Proporiionate dose. Weeks 7 one-firieenth of a draclini, or i grains Moutlis 7 14 28 one twflfih .... niip-eif,'luii .... 5 grains 7.J giains 12 grains Years 3^ 5 7 14 21 63 77 100 one-fourth .... two-tliirds .... coiiiriion ilose eleveii-iwelllLs . five-sixilis .... lour-sixilis .... 15 grains 1 scruple J draciim 2 scruples 1 draciim 55 grains 50 giains 40 grains DOTTERELS. They are to be roasted the same as Ortolans. DOUGH. S^e Bread. DOUGH NUTS. Boilaquartof new milk,, and melt in it i lb. of butter ; beat three eggs with 2 lbs. of sugar, and pour on them the boil- ing milk, stirring all the time. When it is nearly cold stir in a tea-cupful of yeast, a spoonful of salt, and Hour enough to make a stiff batter. When it is quite light knead in flour to make a soft dough, two grated nutmegs, and a little mace ; let it rise again till it is very light, roll it out thin, cut it in shapes, and fry them in hot; lard; dust over ciiniamou and loaf sugar, pounded finely, while they are hot. DOUGH NUTS. COMiMON. Pour a pint of boiling water into a pint of new milk, and put in ^ lb. of lard and a table-sjDoonful of salt ; stir in a tea-cupful of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter; let it rise, and when very light put in 2 lbs. of light brown sugar, two nutmegs, and enough flour to make a soft dough; work it well, and let it rise again till it is very light; roll it out, and fry as other dough nuts. See American Dough Nuts. DOUGH NUTS, RAISED. Boil a quart of milk, and rub smoothly in a little cold milk a gill of ground rice. When the milk boils add the rice, with a tea-spoonful of salt. Allow it to boil until quite thick, stirring it so that it shall not burn. When cool add a cup of good yeast, and thicken it about as stiff as for good bread; knead it well, let the dough rise over- night, and when light add I lb. of butter, five eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, or a pint of molasses, add- ing nutmeg, lemon peel, or any other sjjice. Any light dough can be easily made into dough nuts by the addition of sugar, butter, and spice. An egg or two prevent the cakes from soaking much lat.pov DOVER'S POWDER. This is the com- pniDid ipecacuanha )ir)wder of medical men. It is made by mixing together of powdered ipeca- cuanha, 1 drachm ; powdered opium, 1 drachm; sulphate of potasli, 1 oz. It is a powerful and very effective sudorific, ai.d may be given with great advantage in colds, rlieumatism, and some other inflammatory affections. Dose for an adult, from 5 to 20 grains, according to the patient's stomach and strength. It has been given in dropsy in still larger doses, and has produced a copious sweat wlien other sudoritics have failed. Drinking should be abstained from after taking this powder, otherwise it may pro- duce vomiting. DRACHM. See Apothecaries'Implkments, Mf-asukes, and Weights. DRAG£ES, cinnamon. See Cinnamon Dragees. DRAGfiES, COMMON. The paste for these dragees is made in the same manner as for the better sort, but the materials differ a little, thiis:—To ^\h. of gum take either equal quantities of sugar and powder, or one- third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. When these and the gum are well mixed roll out the paste until it is as thin as tlie back of a knife blade; then take a paste cutter, shaped like a sugar loaf with the top taken off, with the largest end of which cut as many pieces of the paste as will about two-thirds hll the cutter; press these through the smaller end into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days. This kind of dragees may, if liked, be sugared in the same manner as almonds. DRAGEES EN PASTILLAGE. These dragees are made of the same materials as the SuPEKFfNE Dragees. The only difference con- sists in their form, which resembles the bonbons. To make them it is necessary to have a number of wooden moulds (pear-tree wood is the best), on which must be stamped small squares, with various devices engraved on them. Cut your paste into small pieces, press each piece on a mould, and take off all the superabundant paste ; then dip your finger in water, and with it re- move the paste from the mould; dry thein in cases like the other dragees. DRAGEES, SUPERFINE. Put ^Ib. of the best gum dragon into a pan with a pint of cold water, cover, and let it stand for twenty- four hours; then take a strong close cloth about two feet long, and put a part of the gum into it; fold it three times so as to envelope the gum, and then wring the cloth, by which means the purest gum will be forced through; scrape , it off carefully with a knife, then proceed in the same way until all the gum be strained ; ^ut it into a marble mortar, stir it about with a psslle for half an hour, and then add to it 1 It), of douhle-relined sifted sugar; mix them together well until they become a stiff paste; divide this into five parts, four of which must be tinged as follows—red, blue, yellow, and green (the fifth white), with the usual colouring materials. Before, however, they are coloured add to each piece 1|- lb. of double-refined sugar sifted, dipping the paste in the water occasionally to enable it to receive the additional quantity of sugar. When j^ou mix in the colouring materials add also a corresponding perfume, as the red, rose water and a few drops of essence of roses ; to the blue, oil of violets; to the yellow, essence of cedar; to the green, essence of bergamot; and with the white rai.x a little orange-flower water and some drops of essence of neroli. Your paste being thus prepared, form it of what- ever little ornaments you please, such'as eggs, balls, turnips (adding green leaves to these), &c., of the white; of the yellow, apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c., of the blue, and so on, rolling them in your hands to smooth them, and make them all quite small. To those which imitate fruits add tails and tops cut from cherry stalks, and stuck on while the paste is damp; and with a hair pencil dipped in powdered cinnabar tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, slightly breathing on them to moisten the sur- face. When all are done put them into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days to dry. DRAINAGE: Its Effects upon-Health. It is only very recently that the unwilling conviction has been forced, as it were, upon many house- holders, that they have been heedlessly suffer- ing in health from the neglected drainage of the land on which their houses stand, and the gardens and ditches by which they are sur- rounded. The general discomfort thus, too often stealthily and unheeded, produced upon the inmates of dwellings, their gardens, and their domestic animals, is thus briefly stated in a late Report by Her Majesty's Sanitary Com- mission :— " X. The excess of moisture on ill-drained land is the cause of fogs and damps. " 2. The damp serves as the medium of conveyance for any decomposing matter evolved in the neighbourhood, and adds to, or is the cause of, the injuiious effects of such matter when breathed. In other words, it creates atmospheric impurity. '• 3. The evaporation of the surface moisture lowers the temperature, produces chills, and creates or aggravates sudden and injurious changes or fluctuations of temperature, by which the health of the population is injured." The chief advantage of the drainage of the surrounding land to the individual occupiers or[ 428 3 owners consists in the removal of tlie following evils:— 1. Excess of moisture, whicli prevents the permeation of the soil by the atmosphere, and the consequent healthy growth of plants. 2. The lowering of the temperature and the chilling of the vegetation, from the diminu- tion of the effects of the solar warmth not only on the surface of the land, but at the depths occupied by the roots of plants. 3. The injury to domestic animals, correspond- ing to the effects produced on human beings by marsh miasma, chills, and colds, which induce a low state of health, and in extreme cases the rot, or typhus. 4. The presence of damp in the foundations and lower rooms of houses, which causes decay, dilapidation, and discomfort. Let n'ot any of our readers conclude that this is an unimportant inquiry, or imagine, as an excuse for their inactivity, that " it is only a wet ditch, and does not come close to the bouse." We have known many a wet ditch which kept the inmates of its owner's house in a constant state of ill-health. We remember well an opulent Essex farmer, who had, as he said, for sevei'al years, *' the doctor always in the house;" and this state of affairs constantly attended him until he drained and filled up a horse-pond, full of foul and stagnant water, which was placed in his farmyard directly Tinder his parlour window. " It is in yaiu that the owner of the house directs his attention to any of its internal comforts, or to the garden with which it should be accompanied, if he places it in an unhealthy, wet situation, surrounded by stagnant ponds or ditches—places where, at particular seasons of the year, sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen gases are copiously genei-ated and emitted, and in whose neighbourhood, as a certain consequence, typhus fever and other diseases are pretty sure to be rife." All these facts were some time since brought before the public in the able Report of Mr. Chadwick on the Sanitary Condi- tion of the Poor. In this valuable work Mr. Chad- wick produces, upon this branch of our inquiry, a large body of evidence. It is hardly necessary to quote much of this unanswerable testimony in support of the fact that, wherever stagnant, impure waters are found, disease in varying forms is ceitain to atia.;k those who live in the immediate neighbouihood. " After twenty-six years' practice in this neighbourhood," observes Mr. p. R. M'Nab, the medical officer of the Epping Union," I may venture to add the followr jng observation.—that I have scarcely ever had a case of typhus fever in a malignant form without discovering some stagnant drain or over- charged cesspool, or some other manifest cause of malaria, in the immediate vicinity of the residence of the patient." The evidence of a host of other medical men is entirely confirmatory of the same fact. Mr. Oldham, the medical officer of the Chesterfield Union, remarked, when speaking of Wessington, " Most of the houses surround an undrained common, full of pools of stagnant water, that in the winter season overflow, and in this season the neigh- bourhood appears less infected with fever. In the summer months and greater part of the spring and autumn these pools are stagnant, and undoubtedly a fruitful source of malaria; indeed, the neighbourhood of Wessington is scarcely ever free from fever at these seasons of the year. I am led to conclude that the de- composition constantly going on in these small pools is the source of the malaria, and that the malaria so engendered propagates fever." "The malaria arises," says Mr. Blick, tho medical officer of the Bicester Union, " from the decomposition of vegetable matter left upon Otmoor (a marsh of about 4,000 acres) by the pi'evious winter's flood, and acted upon by the sun during the summer." Mr. J. Holt, a sur- geon at Leighton Buzzard, observes, ■' The great prevalence of these fevers in hot summers is principally attributable to the number of stagnant ponds and ditches which are situated in the vei-y midst of many of the towns and villages of this union, and which in hot weather become quite putrid and offensive, from the quantity of decaying animal and vegetable matter. I have generally obsei-ved that the greater number of these fevers occur in houses situated in the immediate vicinity of these ponds, and have no doubt that they are the chief cause of nearly aU the fevers of this description." The importance to the preservation of health of even keeping roads and ditches free from stagnant water and decomposing organic matters is not yet well understood by the public. " The sanitary effect of road cleaning," says Mr. Chadwick, " to which house drainage and road drainage are auxiliary, is not confined to the streets in towns and the roads in villages, but extends over the roads at a distance from habita- tions on which there is a traffic." Dr. Harrison, whose testimony Mr. Chadwick cites on the subject of the analogy of the diseases of animals to those which affect the human constitution, in treating of the prevention of fever or the rot amongst sheep, wai'ns the shepherd that, after providing drained pasi ure and avoiding " rot- ting places " in the fields, all his care may be frustrated if he does not avoid, with equal care, leading the sheep over wet and miry roads, with . stagnant ditches, which are as pernicious as the places in thefields.designated as "rotting-places."DRI .Pr. Harrison is solicitous to impress the fact that .the rot, that is, the typhus fever, has been con- tracted in ten minutes ; that sheep can at " any time be tainted in a quarter of an hour, while the land retains its moisture, and the weather is hot and sultry." Such instances of the pre- judicial effects of undrained and neglected roads might be easily multiplied. Thus Mr. E. P. Turner, the medical officer of Coleshill Union, in accounting for some cases of fever, states, " These cases of typhus all occurred in the same neighbourhood, where the road is bad, with a dirty ditch of stagnant water on each side of it. The road is generally overflowed in the winter. The disease broke out in the month of October. Other cases occurred in the same neighboui'hood at the time." If any evidence be required of the sanitary influence of good drainage, or the removal of stagnant waters from a district, let the inhabit^ ■ants of the now better drained fens of Lincoln- shire and Cambridgeshire attest; or, if the experience of the tenants of a less extensive district be preferred, then we commend to the reader's notice the following observations of Mr. George Elgar, one of the medical officers of the Eastry Union :—" The parishes forming the fifth district of the Eastry Union are, with one or two exceptions, close to marshes sepa- rating the Isle of Thanet from this portion of East Kent, and consequently during the spring and autumn the inhabitants are exposed to the malaria therefrom ; but for the last few yenrs, Giving to the excellent plan of draining, very few .diseases have occurred, in my opinion, that can be said to be produced by malaria. There is very little ague, scarcely any continued fever, and a case of typhus, I believe, has not been linown along the borders of the marshes for the last three or four years.- Some years back a great portion of the parishes adjoining these .marshes was under water from the end of autumn to the early part of the following Spring; then agues and fevers of all characters prevailed to a very great extent. Although the malaria does not produce diseases of any decided character, yet during a wet spring or autumn there are always cases of inflammation bf the lungs or bowels, or rheumatism both in acute and chronic forms. The houses in general are good, well drained, and ventilated, having one or two sitting-rooms, as many bedrooms, .sometimes more, scullery, &c." Such, then, being the ills produced by the bad drainage of our houses and gardens, with- out delay remove this source of discomfort and disease. This may be accomplished with much more facility and far less expense than is generally supposed, and no period bf the year is better adapted for such im- provements, little in extent, but large in- their good results,'as the early period of the year. February and March are the months wholly preferred for such work by the owners of considerable portions of land. The farmer well knows that the first improvement, the foundation, as he terms it, of all good husbandry, is the drainage of his land. He thus dries his land to fill his barns with corn, and his fields with healthy live stock and flourishing crops. Let the mere householder remember that he has far higher objects; he has to preserve and increase the comfort, the enjoyment, and the health of the members of his family, without which all other worldly blessings are of little value, and the enioyment of life impossible. DRAUGHT, BLACK. See Black Dkaught. DRESS. See Apparel. DRINKING is perhaps more necessary to the support of animal life than eating, for drink is indispensable to the solution and diges- tion of food. Those who drink too little — people, for instance, of a sedentary life, and particularly women—are subject to complaints of indigestion. Sufficient drink prevents the thickening of the blood and the obstruction of the smaller vessels ; it tends to clear the blood of the acrid particles generated in it; and it promotes the necessary secretions, such as the bile and the gastric juice of the stomach. We ought to drink only when we are thirsty, and to desist when thirst is quenched ; but this is seldom the case, because many of our liquors stimulate the palate. Pure water, therefore, is an inestimable beverage, as it will not induce us to drink more than is necessary. We should drink in a greater proportion than we eat, for the quantity of our fluids by far exceeds that of the solids, and consequently there must be secreted more fluids than solids. The general rule may be given to take about double the proportion of liquid to the dry food ; but this cannot be accurately observed, nor is it appli- cable in all cases. Tlie season, the weather, cold, heat, the na- ture of our food, and the greater or less degree of our exercise, require more or less drink at one time than at another. Thirst, however, is as good, if not a better guide than hunger ; and he who is accustomed to drink water oniy will not easily transgress the measure, if he drink as often as nature calls upon him. With a proper choice of food evei'y one would drink conformably to his wants. Hence it is needless to recommend water as a beverage to persons who will not be persuaded to change their irie- gular mode of eating. The more we eat in quantity, and the drier our victuals are, the more we ought to diink. The phlegmatic have less inclination to drinkDRI [ 430 ] tlian those of a sanguine <nncl cliolenc tempera- nent. Tlie laliorious ought to drink more than the sedentary, and still more in summer than in winter, to supply the humours lost by insensible perspiration. In the morning when we rise we generally feel an inclination for drink, which is gratified by tea, coffee, or other warm liquors. Water would unquestionably be a more proper beverage at this time, and it would be disagreeable to those only whose stomachs are spoiled by the habitual use of warm liquors and hot rolls. A glass of pure fresh water, and awhile after it a piece of bread, with some fruit, or even butter, would afford a very wholesome breakfast, by which the stomach and intestines might be cleared, the blood and humours refreshed, and the whole body strengthened. If the stomach be not loaded with mucus, or relaxed by tip- pling, a basin of sweet cow's'milk, with a piece of stale bread, is an excellent breakfast iu spring and summer. To drink immediately before a meal is im- proper, liecause the stomach is thereby swelled, and rendered less fit for the digestion of food. Hence, to avoid the necessity of drinking, it is advisable not to take any violent exercise imme- diately before diinier. To drink much at night previously to our going to bed is likewise hurt- ful ; but the drinking before a meal is moie noxious than at any other time, because the stomach is filled wkh. the liquid we swallow, the bile and the gastric juice there collected are too much diluted, and consequently the important ofiice of digestion is checked. It is also objectionable to drink much during the time of taking food, as the stomach is thus rendered incapable of receiving the due portion of aliment. Cold beer or water does not well agree with warm victuals, and the teeth are injured by taking hot and cold substances in immediate succession. In the hot weather of summer it is scarcely possible to delay drinking till the dinner be finished; and it is the more necessary, or rather, less hurtful at this time, as the bile which serves to dissolve the victuals then requires greater dilution. In winter, un- less we eat very dry and salted provisions, we feel less inclined to drink at table ; but, if we must drink in the intervals of eating, it would be most conducive to digestion to drink water only, and in small quantities, as pure water is more proper during the time of eating, because it agrees with all dislies without exception. Yet a glass or two of wine during dinner, par- ticularly for the aged and debilitated, is proper and conducive to digestion. Some observers advise us never to drink without eating something; but he who drinks only \ihea nature reijuires it has no occasion to eat every time he drinks. Persons, on the con- trary, who are once accustomed to drink more than is necessary, or to make use of hot, stimu- lating, and intoxicating liquors, would do well always to eat some bread or other solid food along with them. Indeed, we ought to begin to drink only after our appetite for food is satisfied, and then it should be done gradually during digestion. This function may be disturbed by large draughts of liquor, which occasion fer- mentation and flatulency. Excessive drink loads and oppresses the sto- mach by distending it too much ; but it is net nearly so hurtful as too much food. Every beverage relaxes the stomach, and persons whose bowels are not sufficiently elastic should be careful in the quantity they drink ; for an immoderate proportion of it may weaken diges- tion, dilute the fluids too much, and conduct the food too quickly through the alimentary canal. An undue portion of drink renders the mass of blood too thin and watery : from a thin blood arises also a weak alimentary fluid, consequently a general debility of the body, and relaxation of the urinary and other passages. On the other hand, too little drink is equally improper ; digestion is weakened ; many parts of victuals remain undissolved, and are not con- ducted to the lacteals, because the proper means of diluting them are wanting; the blood be- comes thick and viscid; and finally, the secre- tions and excretions are not duly performed, because the different canals are too dry aud contracted. DRIPPING: To Ci.artft. Set it on the fire in a clean pan, and when melted and just going to boil take it off, and ptour it into another pan half filled with boiling hot water; stir the whole very well together with a broad wooden spoon, and then remove the pan into a cool place till the next day, when the clarified diip- ping will be found floatmg on the surface of the water. DRI I'PIXG: To Pot. Roil 6 lbs. of the best dripping in soft water, strain it into a pan, and let it cool; then take off the fat, and scrape the gravy from the inside. Do this repeated!}'-, then put it into a saucepan, with six bay leaves, twelve cloves, ^ lb. of salt, and J lb. of whole pepper. Melt the fat, and when just hot strain it into a pot till cold, and then cover it closely. It makes excellent paste for puddings. DROP BISCUITS. Beat up the whites of six eggs and the yolks of ten with a spoonful of rose watei', and then put in 10 ozs. of beaten and sifted loaf sugar ; whisk them well for half an hour, and then add 1 oz. of caraway seeds crushed a little, and G ozs. of fine flour Mix the whole well together, drop them on papers, and hake them in a moderatelv heated oveu.DRO DRO [ 431 ] DROP CAKES (1). Take three ej^gs, leaving out one white, and heat them in a pint howl just enough; then fill the bowl quite full of milk, and stir in enough flour to make a thick but not stiff batter ; bake in earthen cups in a quick oven. This is an excellent recipe, and the "just enough" heating for eggs can onlv be determined by experience. DROP CAKES (-2). Take one quart of flour, five eggs, three-fourths of a pint of milk, and one-fourth of a pint of cream, with a large spoonful of sifted sugar and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix these well together. If the cream should be sour add a little saleratiis. If all milk is used melt a dessert-spoonful of butter in the milk. To be baked iu cups in the oven thirtv or forty minutes. DROPS, ACID. Boil clarified sugar to crack, and pour it on an oiled marble stone; pound some tartaric or citric acid to a fine powder, and strew over it about J oz. or | o/. of the former, ac- cording to its quality, and less of the latter, to 7 lbs. of sugar; turn the edges over into the middle, and mix the acid by folding it over, or by working it in a similar manner as dough is moulded, but do not pull it; put it in a tin rubbed over with oil or butter, and place it under the stove to keep warm ; then cut off a small piece at a time, and roll it into a round pipe; cut it up in small pieces the size of drops with shears, and let your assistant roll them round under his hand and flatten them. Mix them with j^owder sugar, sift them from it, and keep them in boxes or glasses. When flavoured with lemon they are called lemon acid drops; with otto of roses, rose acid drops. DROPS, BARLEY SUGAR. Put the sugar into a pan wiih a very small spout, and drop it on the slab, managing it with a wooden pointer; sift fine sugar over to keep it from sticking, and wrap the drops in separate papers. DROPS, CHOCOLATE. Take 1 lb. of sugar and 1 oz. of chocolate; scrape the chocolate to a powder, and mix it with tlie sugar in coarse grains ; moisten with clean water, but do not mix more than can be dropped out whilst warm at one time. If any I'eniains in the pot it will grease the next you make, and will not attain the consistence required. DROPS, CINNAMON. Take 1 oz. of cinna- mon and 1 lb. of sugar ; pulverise the cinnamon, and sift it through a lawn sieve ; mix it with the sugar, and add two or three drops of the essen- tial oil. If the flavour is not strong enough moisten it with water, and proceed as before. The flavour may be given with the essential oil only, colouring them with bole ammoniac. DROPS. COFFEE. Take 1 oz. of coffee and 1 lb. of sugar; make a strong and cleaf infusion of coffee, and use it to moisten the sugar. Make the drops as above. DROPS, GINGER. Beat in a marble mortar I oz. of candied orange-peel, with some lump sugar, and when it is smooth like paste add ^ lb. more of the same kind of sugar, and ^ oz. of powdered ginger; then dissolve the sugar in a little water, boil the whole to a candy, and drop it off from the point of a knife on writing paper. When cold put them into boxes. DROPS, LEMON. Grate three lemons with a piece of double retined sugar; then scrape it off upon a plate, and add half a tea-spoonful of flour; mix the whole well, and beat it to a paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and, having laid it on a tin plate, put it into a moderate oven. DROPS, PEPPERMINT. These are made by finely sifting some powdered loaf sugar into just lemon juice enough to make it projterly thick, and then drying it over the fire for a few minutes, stirring in about fifteen drops of oil of peppermint to each ounce of sugar. Some, in- stead of lemon juice, mix the sugar and oil of peppermint with the whites of eggs, beating the whole together, dropping it on wli'te paper, and afterwards drying the drops gradually be- fore the fire. DROPS, RASPBERRY. Mnsh a handful of raspberries, put them in a very little water, boil, and strain through a flannel Img ; take ^ lb. of finely sifted sugar, and wet it with raspl)erry juice, with twenty drops of the spirit of vitriol ; make it liot over the fire, but do not let it boil, and drop it from the point of a kniJ'e upon paper. DROPS, RATAFIA. Blanch and beat in a mortar 4 ozs. of bitter and half as many sweet almonds, with a little pounded sugar sifted with some more sugar, and the whites of two eggs; make a paste, of wliich put some little balls in white paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. DROPS, ROSE. Reduce to an impal- pable powder, and sift it carefully, ^ oz. of dried red roses ; mix with tiiem 1 lb. of the finest-sifted double-refined sugar, add as much lemon juice as will make it into a stiff paste, , and heat it over the fire until the whole mass is scalding hot. Drop it on paper, and sefit near the fire till the next day. DROPS, SPICE. These may be made ' with either cloves, ginger, mace, allspice, cin- namon, Jamaica pep(ie)-, common pepper, or Cayenne. Boil in a quarter of a pint of any white wine two drachms of either of the above articles in powder, keep the vessel closely ppvered, then strain the liquor, and mix witht 432 3 PRO it as much sifted sugar as -will make it of a proper consistence. Let the drops dry of themselves without the application of heat. DROPS, VANILLA. Make as cinnamon, using a little sugar to pound the vanilla. Use sufficient to give a good flavour, or it may be moistened with essence of vanilla; but this greases it like chocolate. DROPSY. A dropsy is a collection of serous or whey-like fluid, contained in the cellular membrane in the viscera or circumscribed cavities of the body, impeding or pi'eventing the functions of life, and receiving different names, according to the particular situation in which it is contained. First, then, of Dropsy ok the Cellular Mkmbrane (Ana- sarca). This species of dropsy arises from a serous humour, diffused between the skin and flesh, or rather, from what is termed a general accumulation df lymph in the cellular system. It shows itself at first with d swelling of the feet and ankles towards the evening, which for a time disappears again in the morning. The swelling is soft and inelastic, and when pressed upon by the finger retains the mark or impression thus made for some time after. The swelling by degrees ascends upwards and occupies the trunk of the body ; at length the face and eye- lids appear full and bloated; breathing becomes difficult; the urine is small iu quantity, high coloured, and deposits a reddish sediment; the belly is bound ; perspiration is obstructed ; the countenance assumes a yellow tint; there is considerable thirst, with a wasting of the whole body. To these symptoms torpor and heaviness, a troublesome cough, and low fever succeed. In some cases the water oozes out through the pores of the scarf skin; but in others, where the fluid is too gross to escape by these, it raises the skin in small blisters, &c. The causes of dropsy are a hereditnry or family predisposition, frequent salivations, ex- cessive and long-continued evacuations, free use of spirituous and fermented liquors (which never fail to destroy the powers of digestion), indurations of the abdominal viscera, &c., pre- ceding complaints, as the jaundice, diari'hcea, dysentery, consumption, asthma, gout, agues of long continuance, scarlet fever, some dis- .' eases of the eruptive kind, &c., with whatever disposes the body to a state of preternatural relaxation. The disease is always to be regarded as admitting more readily of a cure when it arises from local weakness or general debility than when it has been occasioned by venereal obstruc- tion, as likewise when it is recent than when of long continuance. The skin becoming some- what moist, with a diminution of thirst, and an increase in the flow pf urine, are to be considered as very favourable symptoms. In some few- cases nature makes powerful efforts of her own accord, and the disease goes off spontaneously either by vomiting, purging, or an unusual dis- charge of urine; but this does not frequently happen. At an early stage of dropsy issues made with caustic below one or both knees, blisters, and the application of colewort leaves have been employed to evacuate the fluid, as well as slight • scarifications made into the cellular membrane, as deep incisions into dropsical parts are apt to run into gangrene. Emetics, purgatives, dia- phoretics, and diuretics are also used for the purpose of exciting the excretions to carry off the fluid ; but if these are found to weaken the patient without alleviating the disease they must not be continued. An emetic of the sulphate of copper appears the most proper, as having less tendency to exhaust the strength of the patient than any ether generally used, e.g.:—Take sulphate of copper, 5 to 10 grains ; powder of ipecacuanha, 5 grains. To be taken every second or third morning. As a purgative, with a view of carrying off a portion of the water collected by stool, take scammony, 12 grains ; submuriate of mercury, 5 grains; powdered ginger, 6 grains. Mix for a dose. Or, take extract of elaterium, 7^ grains ; sulphate of potass, ^scruple; hard soap, i drachm; powdered ginger, i drachm. Mix the sulphate of potass and the elaterium together ; then add the ginger; afterwards blend dl together with the soap, moisten with water, make the whole into a mass, and divide it into pills, of which take one or two every hour until the bowels are freely unloaded. This is a very excellent form of administering elaterium (wild cucumber) iu dropsical and other cases, where it is desirable to have recourse to this active medicine. Purgatives, to be used with advantage in dropsical cases, shou'd be repeated at as short intervals as the patient can bear, for, when purging is not carried to the degree of quickly exciting absorption, the evacuation weakens the system and increases the afflux of fluids to the hydropic parts. The supertartrate of potass (cream of tartar- or crystals of tartar) is a very powerful remedy, and is administered in doses of two or three drachms every hour till copious evacuations are produced either by urine or stool, using at the same time tepid diluent driniis plentifully. This medicine should be taken every or every other morning, according to the strength of the patient; and, as thirst is a very distressing symptom in this disease, the patient should be allowed to take as much water or-mild mucilaginous liquids^[ 433 ] DRO DRO acidulated with the crystals of tartar, as may suit his palate. Promoting perspiration has been deemed heneficial in dropsy; but it is not much de- pended upon, nor is it even used where there is much general debility. To promote the flow of urine, diuretics, as the oxymel of meadow saffron, squills, acetate of potass, spirit of nitrous ether, &c., combining them with tonics, are chiefly to be depended upon. The debility of the system must be removed by studiously avoiding all the remote causes in our power, added to gentle exercise, supporting the integuments of the lower extremities by means of bandages properly applied, such as a well-con- structed lace-stocking or simple flannel bandage, beginning at the extremity of the foot, and con- tinuing it above the knee; by taking the Peru- vian bark, infusion of quassia, and other tonics. The vapour bath, friction of the legs and thighs, or wherever the seat of the complaint may be, will all tend, should the disease not be too far advanced, to alleviate, if not to remove the sufferings of the patient. An infusion or decoction of the fresh tops of broom (green),beer boiled with juniper berries, &c., may be drunk with the other remedies. Foxglove may also be taken in the following form, viz.:— Take the leaves of purple foxglove, dried, 2 drachms ; boiled water, ^ pint. Infuse them for two hours, and strain off the liquor; then add spirit of nitric ether, 1 oz.; compound spirit of juniper, 2 ozs. Two table-spoonsful of this mixture may be taken every four hours. It not unfrequently happens that in dropsical legs there is a tendency to fester and gangrene. When this occurs a strong solution of the super- acetate of lead, in the proportion of two drachms to a pint of water, will be a good application by means of linen rags, or an infusion of the leaves of foxglove as recommended by Dr. Ferriar. All dropsical patients ought to live upon light nutritious food and powerful aromatic vegetables, as garlic, onions, mustard, cresses, horseradish, and shallots, using for common drink any of the diuretic infusions, such as fresh broom tops, crystals of tartar, &c. Removal from a damp to a dry situation or to a warm climate is recom- mended upon unquestionable authority. Dropsv of the Belly. In attending to the symptoms of this aspect o the disease it will be impossible not to distinguish it from dropsy. The fluctuations hei'e may be easily detected by applying the left hand to one side of the abdomen, and then striking it on the other with the right. The symptoms and the treatment in this case are much the same as in dropsy of the extremities; the fluid must equally be evacuated by means of strong purgatives, diuretics, with the occasional use of emetics, &c., as already noticed. To pro- cure a discharge of mine, long-continued gentlo friction of the abdomen, with the fingers dipped in oil to prevent the skin from being excoriated, has been recommended. When the preceding means fail tapping must be resorted to, although this step by no means tends to eradicate the disease. Whenever, there- fore, it reaches this point, the treatment, if i it has not before, ought to devolve on some experienced practitioner, as well as in the management of dropsy of the chest, which more particularly requires greater discrimina- ! tion, combined with the most skilful and | judicious ti'eatment, &c. DROWNED, APPARENTLY. See Anima- tion, Suspended. General Cautions.—1. Lose no time. 2. Avoid all rough usage. 3. Never hold the body up by the feet. 4. Nor roll the body on casks. 5. Nor rub the body with salt or spirits. 6. Nor inject tobacco smoke or infusion of tobacco. Send quickly for medical assistance, but do not delay the following means :— L Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders in a raised position, to the nearest house. 2. Strip the body and rub it dry; then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed in a warm chamber. 3. Wipe and cleanse the mouth and nostrils. 4. In order to restore the natural warmth of tlie body— a. Move a heated covered warming-pan over the back and spine. b. Put bladders or bottles of hot water or heated bricks to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. c. Foment the body with hot flannels; but, if possible, d. Immerse the body in a warm bath as hot as the hand can bear without pain, as this is preferable to the other means of restoring warmth. e. Rub the body briskly with the hand ; do not, however, suspend the use of the other means at the same time. 5. In order to I'estore breathing introduce the pipe of a common bellows (where the ap- paratus of the Royal Humane Society is not at hand) into one nostril, carefully closing* the other and the mouth, at the same time draw- ing downwards and pushing gently backwards the upper part of the windpipe, to allow a more free admission of air. Blow the bellows gently, in order to inflate the lungs, till the breast bo a little raised; the mouth and nostrils should thea _ 2 F -L 434 ] DUG l>e Sf3t. free, and a moderate pressure made with tlie hand upon the chest. Eepeat this process till life appears. , 6. Electricity to be employed early by a medical assistant. 7. Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, half a pint of warm brandy and water or wine and water. 8. Apply sal volatile or hartshorn to the nostrils. DRUNKENNESS. When a person is con- veyed home in a state of deep intoxication he should be placed in a large room, to which the air is freely admitted, and none should be allowed to remain within who ai'e not absolutely necessary. He should be laid in a recumbent position, with his head to one side, to favour vomiting, which should be excited by tickling the back part of the throat with a feather, or, if that fail, by an active emetic, and the feet placed in hot water. This should be succeeded by an injection of common salt. If the nausea and vomiting continue after the contents of the stomach are evacuated effervescing draughts of soda or Seidlitz water are to be emplryed. To remove the stupor cold water may be dashed on the face, and applied freely to the head by means of cloths. When the insensibility and lethargy are great, and do not go off, but rather increase, then the propriety of bleeding, either from the temporal artery or jugular vein, comes to be considered. DRY-ROT. A peculiar disease that attacks wood, and renders it brittle and rotten. It principally occurs among the timbers of ships and of damp and ill-ventilated houses. It has been ascribed to the formation of fungi. Various means have been proposed to prevent the attacks of dry-i'ot, and to arrest its progress when it has commenced, among which the process called Kyanising (after Kyan, the name of the patentee) is most generally known, and has been most extensively adopted. It consists in immersing the timber in a bath of corrosive sublimate. A solution of pyrolignite of iron has also been used for the same purpose, and in a similar way, with the best effect. It is asserted, how- ever, that Kyanised wood that has been exposed for a considerable time in some unfavourable situations has suffered from the dry-rot in nearly an equal degree with unprepared wood. Lately the process termed Paynisinr/ (after Mr. Payne, the inventor) has been adopted, and appears likely to supersede every other method. This plan consists in first filling the pores with a solution of muriate of lime, and next forcing in a solution of sulphate of iron, by which an insoluble sulphate of lime is formed in the body of the wood, and the latter is rendered nearly as hard as stone. Wood so prepared has alreadv been adopted in several public works.— [Cooley.) DUCELLE. Mince mushrooms, parsley, young onions, or shallots, the same quantity of each ; put some butter into a stewpan, with as much rasped bacon; put it upon the fire, and ssason with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, a little grated nutmeg, and a bay leaf; moisten with a spoonful of Espagnole or veloute ; let it sim- mer, taking care to stir it; when sufficiently done finish it with a thickening of yolks of eggs well beaten, which must not boil. The juice of a lemon is not necessary, but may be added ; put it in a dish, and use it for everything that is put in papillotes. DUCK: To Ro.\st. Having well cleaned and wiped it, take 1 oz. of onion and half as much green sage (both chopped finely), a tea- cupful of bread crumbs, some black pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg; mis the whole well, and make a stuffing. Or you may do this another way by chopping finely about 2 ozs. of onion, half as much of the leaves of green sage, a little pepper and salt, and some minced apple. A duck of moderate size will take from half to three quarters of an hour, and the feet should be nicely crisped. Serve with fine gravy, or sage and onion sauce. DUCK A LA BEARNOISE. Stew a duck with a little stock, half a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley and green onions, some thyme, a bay leaf, basil, and two cloves. For sauce put seven or eight large onions sliced into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, and keep stirring them over the fire till they are coloured ; then add a little flour, and moisten with the liquor of the duck. When the onion is quite done, and the sauce thick, skim it; add a sprinkling of vinegar, and serve over the duck. DUCK A LA BIGARADE. Tie up a duck into a round form, rub the breast with lemon juice, and put it into a saucepan, with rashers of bacon under and over it, and fire on the top of the saucepan. An hour before serving let it simmer; then drain it, and having untied the string put it on a dish, and serve with the follow- ing sauce :—Three large spoonsful of Espagnole, a little coarse peppei', and the juice of a Seville orange, with a little of the peel; put into a saucepan on the fire, and when it begins to boil pour it round the duck. If you have not a Seville orange a lemon will do nearly as well. DUCK A LA BOURGEOISE. Lard a duck with fat bacon, and stew it over a slow fire with some stock, a glass of wine, a bunch of parslej', some leeks, a bay leaf, cloves, salt, and pepper; skim and strain the sauce, reduce it to a proper consistence, and serve over the duck. DUCK A LA BRUXELLES. Cut a veal sweetbread and some streaked bacon into dice,DUG t -135 ] DUG and mix them with parsley, green onions, mush- rooms, two shallots (all shred finely), some salt, and coarse pepper; put the whole into the carcass of a duck, sew it up that none may fall out, and stew the duck, having a thin slice of bacon on its breast, with a large glass of white wine, as much stock, two onions, a carrot, half a parsnip, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When done strain off the sauce, skim, and add a little cullis to thicken it. DUCK, CULLTS OF. Roast a duck, and pound it in a mortar; then fry some rashers of bacon to a nice brown, and put them into a stewpan, with a handful of lentils, a clove of garlic, a few cloves, and some savory; let them all stew together. When they have stewed some time pound them with the meat of the duck, and toss it up in a pan with melted lard; put in some veal gravy to give it a pale colour, and strain it. DUCK A LA DAUBE. For this dish it is usual to take a duck that is not quite tender enough for the spit; lard it all over with bacon, and season by rubbing in a mixture of shred parsley and green onions, two shallots, half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil shred into powder, with salt, coarse pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Having thus prepared the duck, tie it up, and put it into a pot just lai'ge enough to contain it, with two large glasses of water, as much white wine, and half a glass of brandy, adding a little more salt and pepper; close the pot well, and let the duck stew gently three or four hours. When done, and the sauce has come so strong as to jelly, dish the duck, and when cold pour the sauce over it, not serving till the whole is quite cold and jellied. Some cooks add carrots, onions, and a bunch of fine herbs to the stew ; others omit the brandy. DUCK, FORCED. Cut the duck open at the back, and carefully take out the bones, excepting those of the legs and wings ; take all the meat from the body, leaving the skin perfectly whole. With the meat pound i lb. of lean and tender beef, add three handsful of grated bread, four well-beaten eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet cream ; season with pepper, mace, and salt; mix all well together, let it stand for half an hour, and then put it into the duck, which sew up, and make it of as natural a form as possible, but take care that it be not too much stuffed ; boil it for half an hour in some good stock, and then put it into a flat baking pan, with some fresh butter over and under it; bake it in an oven another half an hour, and serve it with the following sauce:—Brown a table-spoonful of butter with flour, about a pint of the stock in which the duck has been boiled, three grated onions, two table-spoonsful of finely cut capers, a little lemon pickle, and a few small pickled onions; boil about a quarter of an hour, and just before pouring it over the duck stir in gradually half a pint of rich cream. DUCK A LA FRANgAISE. Put two dozen roasted chestnuts into a pint of rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two small onions if agreeable, a little whole pepper, and a bit of ginger; then take a tame duck, lard it, and half roast it; put it into the gravy, let it stew for ten minutes, and add a quarter of a pint of red wine. When the duck is done enough take it out, boil up the gravy to a proper thickness, skim off the fat, lay the duck in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. DUCK EN HOCHEPOT. Cut a duck into quarters, and stew them in a small pot, with some turnips, a quarter of a cabbage, pai'snips, carrots, and onions sliced (all parboiled), some good stock, a bit of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind left on, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the whole is done put the duck into a tureen, and the vegetables round it; skim the fat off the liquor in which the vegetables were stewed, and add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, which must be served over the duck. DUCK A L'lTALIENNE. Stew a duck with half a pint of white wine, as much stock, some salt, and coarse pepper; then put two large spoonsful of sweet oil into a stewpan, with some parsley, green onions, mushrooms, and a clove of garlic, the whole shred finely; set it upon the fire, and shake in a little flour, moisten- ing with the liquor of th& duck, which should be previously skimmed and strained off; reduce to the consistence of a light batter, skim off all fat that may remain, and serve it over the duck. DUCK WITH OLIVES. Dress a duck d la braise in the same way as duck d la puree. When nearly done blanch some olives, throw them into the sauce in which the duck was stewed, and boil them over a slow fire. When the olives are done serve them on the dish round the duck. DUCK WITH ORANGE SAUCE. Take a good fat duck, be particular that it is white, prepare it carefully without hurting the skin, blanch the feet, cut off the small joints, and truss them without; turn in the rump, cut the wings close to the body, and take off the neck; mix in a stewpan a sufficient quantity of butter, the juice of a lemon, and salt; fill the duck with this butter, truss it up into a good form, and cover a stewpan with pieces of lard ; put in the duck or ducks, cover with slices of lemon, over them pieces of lard, and season with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with a clove, a bunch of parsley and young onions, consommee, and half a glass of white wine; cover with a round of[ 436 3 DUO DUG aper. Three quarters of an hour before serving oil, cover, and put them on a paillasse with fire Under and over. When done drain, unlace, and dish; serve them under an orange sauce. Instead of using the juice of beef take a little aspic and consommee reduced. If there are no oranges use lemons. DUCK AU PERE DOUILLET. Tie up a duck in a neat form with a packthread, and put it into a stewpan large enough to contain it, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, basil, two cloves, some coriander seeds, slices of onions, a carrot, a parsnip, a slice of butter, two glasses of stock, and one of white wine. Let the whole stew gently, and when the duck is done skim off the fat, and strain the liquor through a sieve; then reduce it upon the fire to the consistence of a sauce, and serve over the duck. It may be done in the same manner cut in quarters. DUCK PIE. Scald two ducks, and make them very clean; then cut off the feet, the pinions, necks, and heads; take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts ; pick all clean, and scald them; pick out the fat of the inside, lay a good puff paste crust all over the dish, season the ducks both inside and out with pepper and salt, and lay them in a dish with the giblets at each end properly seasoned ; put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, ajid let it be well baked. DUCK PURI:E. Put a duck into a sauce- pan, with some stock, slices of bacon, a bunch of parsley, two or three leeks, a bay leaf, and a few carrots and onions. When done strain the sauce through a sieve, adding any kind of puree you choose, and serving it round the duck. DUCK PUREE VERTE. Boil half a pint of dry peas with a little stock, some parsley, and green onions, and strain them through a sieve. If they are green peas there should be a pint of them, omitting the parsley and green onions. Then stew a duck with some stock, salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley and green onions, thyme, a bay leaf, basil, half a clove of garlic, and two cloves. When done strain off the sauce, and add to it the puree of peas; reduce it till moderately thick, and serve over the duck. In stewing the duck you may add a piece of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind on, and serve round the duck. DUCK, SAUCE FOR. To a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice add a glass of white wine and some scalded gooseberries, with a little powder sugar and a small piece of butter. Boil the whole together. DUCK STEWED WITH PEAS. Parboil a duck, and then put it into a stewpan, with a pint of gravy, some mint, and three or four sage leaves cut small; cover the pan, and stevr for half an hour; thicken the gravy, and add half a pint of green peas ready boiled ; dish up the duck and the peas together. DUCK, STUFFING FOR. Chop about 2 ozs. of onion finely, about 1 oz. of green sage leaves, 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of a boiled egg, and a little pepper, to which may be added a minced apple. DUCK WITH TURNIPS. Brown a little butter and flour of a fine colour, then moisten with some stock, and put in a whole duck, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and coarse pepper. Have ready some turnips, pared and cut properly, to stew with the duck. If they are hard put them in at the same time, but otherwise when the duck is about half done. When the ragout is completed and well skimmed add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and serve with a thick sauce. This is called serving a duck with turnips d la hourgeoise. DUCKLING, ROLLED. Make a good forcemeat of roasted poultry, cut a good-sized duckling in two, bone it, and lay the farce upon it; roll it up, tie slices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little stock, with a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves. When done squeeze the fat gently out, and wipe the duck clean. Serve with what sauce you DUCKLINGS, ROASTED. They must not be seasoned. They will be roasted in rather less than half an hour. Serve with gravy and gooseberry sauce. DUCKS : To Boil. Scald and draw them, after which lay them a few minutes in warm water ; then put them into an earthen pan, and pour over them a pint of boiling milk ; let them lie therein two or three hours, and on taking them out dredge them with flour, put them into a pot of cold water covered closely, and, having boiled them slowly about twenty minutes, they will be fit for table, smothered with onion sauce. DUCKS: To Choose. In choosing ducks, either tame or wild, observe whether they are hard or thick on the belly, for if so they are fat, but if thin and lean they are poor. When newly killed the feet are supple, but when stale they are dry and stiff. Those of a tame duck are thick and yellowish; those of wild ones are small and reddish. Both kinds should be picked dry, but ducklings must be scalded. DUCKS : To Tbuss. These are treated the same way as geese, with the exception of retain- ing their feet, which must be turned up close to the legs. DUCKS A LA BRAISE. Dress, singe, and lard a couple of ducks with bacon rolled iu parsley, onions, beaten mace, cloves, pepper.D U M t 437 ] DUG and salt; lay some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, as much ham or gammon, and two or three slices of veal or beef; put in the ducks with their breasts downwards, and cover them with slices of meat as before ; cut a can-ot, a turnip, an ouiou, and a bead of celery ; add thereto a blade of mace, four or five cloves, and some whole pepper; cover the whole closely, and simmer over a gentle fire till the breasts of the ducks are of a light brown; then put in some water, and let them remain till done. Next chop finely some parsley, an onion or shallot, two anchovies, gherkins, and capers ; put them into a stewpan, with some liquor from the ducks, a little browning, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil, cut the ends of the bacon even with the breasts of the ducks, lay them on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve thera hot. DUCKS, FRICASSEED. Quarter them, beat them well with the back of a knife, dry them well, and fry thera in fresh butter. When they ai'e almost done put in some onions shred small, and a little thyme; add a little claret, thin slices of bacon, parsley and spinach boiled green and shred small • break the yolks of three eggs into a dish, with a little pepper and some grated nutmeg, and toss them up with a ladleful of drawn butter; pour this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon thera, and serve. DUCKS, HASHED. Roast a couple of ducks till they are three parts done, and let them cool; then cut the breast in thin slices, taking care to preserve the gravy. The legs will serve for another dish, which you may dress by wrapping them in a cowl with a good farce, and serve with cullis sauce. For the slices you have cut from the breast cut cucumbers, and mari- nate them about an hour with a little vinegar, salt, and an onion sliced; then take out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, a little stock, flour, and veal gravy ; boil slowly, skim well, take out the ham, and then put in the duck to warm without boiling. You may likewise do the same with chopped truffles or mushrooms, or anything else you may think proper, according to the season. A cold roasted duck will answer much the same purpose for this dish. DUCKS, STEWED. Take a couple of ducks, pick, draw, and dust them with flour, after which set them before the fire to brown ; put them into a stewpan, with one quart of water, a pint of port wine, a spoonful of walnut catsup, as much browning, an anchovy, half a lemon, a clove of garlic, some sweet herbs, Cayenne pepper, and salt; stew them till tender, then lay them on a dish, skim the fat from the liquor, strain it through a sieve, add a few morels and truffles, boil it till reduced to half a pint, pour it over the ducks, and serve them up. DUCKS, WILD: To Choose. These birds should be fat; the claws small, reddish, and supple. If not fresh on opening the beak they will smell disagreeable. The breast and rump should be firm and heavy. The flesh of the hen bird is the most delicate, though the cock generally fetches the highest price. DUCKS, WILD : To Dress. The entrails being taken out of the wild ducks, wipe them well with a cloth, and put into the inside a bit of butter rolled in pepper and salt. When trussed spit and roast them quickly for a quarter of an hour, which will be enough, as the gravy should not run out before they are taken up ; shake flour and salt over them, and froth thera with butter; put good strong gravy under them, and you may serve them with hot port wine in a boat. DUCKS, WILD (Salmis of). Cut off the best parts of a couple of roasted wild ducks, and put the rest of the meat into a mortar, with sis shallots, a little parsley, some pepper, and a bay leaf; pound all these ingredients well to- gether, and then put them into a saucepan, with four ladlesful of stock, half a glass of white wine, the same of broth, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce these to half, strain them, and, having laid the pieces on a dish, cover them with the above. Keep the whole hot, not boiling, until wanted for table. DUMPLETS. Put half a pint of sweet cream into a saucepan with a good spoonful of butter; set it on the fire, and as soon as the cream begins to boil beat in four spoonsful of flour, and mix together into a dough until it leaves the sides of the saucepan. When quite cold work up this dough with four or five eggs, until it is neither too thick nor too thin, for if the consistence be not exactly right the balls in the former state of the dough will be too hard, and in the latter fall to pieces. Cut off tlie dough for the balls with a spoon dipped each time in milk, and plunge them overhead in three pints of boiling milk, kept ready on the fire; keep them covered, but take care not to let the milk boil over, and when the balls rise to the surface they will be done. These dumplets are to be served on a dish on which Parmesan cheese is sprinkled, with melted butter poured over them, and Parmesan again above this, and the whole browned in a modera te oven, or with a hot shovel. DUMPLING, APPLE. Apple Dump- LING. DUMPLING, LARGE. Take green fruit of any kind—peaches, apples, cherries, b'lack' berries, or huckleberries; make a crust t>s for[ 438 ] DUT pies, roll it out, put in tlie fruit, and pin it in a cloth ; boil it two hours. DUMPLING, LIGHT BREAD. Take as much lightened dough as will make a loaf of bread ; work into it ^ lb. of stoned raisins ; tie it up in a cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. DUMPLING, SCREW. Roll out some paste thinly in a long strip ; lay in preserves of any kind, or stewed fruit well sweetened; roll it up and close it tightly ; pin it up in a towel, and boil it an hour; eat it with butter, sugar and cream, or sauce. DUMPLINGS, BACON. Cut slices of cooked bacon, and pepper them ; roll out crusts as for apple dumplings; slice some potatoes very thin, and put them in the crust with the meat; close them up, and let them boil fast an hour. When done take them out carefully with a ladle. DUMPLINGS, CORNED. When you boil corned beef, new bacon, or pork, you can make dumplings by taking Svme grease out of the pot with some of the water, and pour it hot on a quart of Indian meal; mix and work it well; it will not require salt; make it into little round cakes. They should be stiff, or they will boil to pieces. Take out the meat when it is done, and boil the dumplings in the same water for half an hour. They may be eaten with mo- lasses, and make a good common dessert. DUMPLINGS, DROP. These are good for almost any kind of soup, and may be made of a quart of flour, two eggs, a spoonful of butter, some salt, and pepper; wet with milk and water; drop them in while it is boiling, and let them boil ten or fifteen minutes. DUMPLINGS, NORFOLK. Having made a good thick batter as for pancakes, drop it into a saucepan of boiling water. When the dump' lings are done, which will be in two or three minutes, throw them into a sieve to drain, and then turn them into a dish. They are to be eaten with sugar and butter. DUMPLINGS, RICE. Wash and pick a pint of rice ; boil it in water till it is soft; have some apples pared and cored whole; fill the holes with sugar, cover them over with rice, and tie each one separately in a cloth; boil them till the apples are done. DUMPLINGS, SUET. Chop finely 6 ozs. of suet, put it into a basin with the same quantity of flour, 6 o^s. of bread crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of salt; stir these well together, beat two eggs on a plate, add to them six tabie- spoonsful of milk, pour gradually into a basin, and mingle thv. contents thoroughly ; divide the mass into six dumplings, and tie them in sepa- rate cloths that have been floured. Boil them just an hour. These will eat very well next day fried. DUMPLINGS, SUET (Indian). Chop beef suet finely, and to a pint of Indian meal take a spoonful of suet and a little salt; pour on boiling water enough to make a stiff dough; work it well, make it into round cakes, and boil in clear water. These are good, when vegetables are scarce, to eat with meat, or as a dessert with sugar or molasses. DUMPLINGS, YEAST. Make a light dough with yeast as if for bread, using milk instead of water, and adding thereto a little salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes previously to serving get ready a stewpan of boiling water, and make the dough into balls, each about the size of an egg. Let them boil twenty minutes, and to judge when done enough stick a fork into one, and if the prongs come out clear take them up. They should be eaten with meat, sugar and butter, or salt. DUSTHOLE. See Cinders. DUTCH BEEF. Rub a lean piece of beef well with molasses or coarse sugar, and turn it often. At the end of the third day wipe the meat, and salt it with a mixture of common salt and saltpetre pounded finely. Rub this well in, and turn the beef every day for a fortnight; then roll it tightly in a coarse cloth, and press it with a large weight. Hang it to dry in the smoke of wood, turning it upside down every day. When boiled in spring water and pressed it may be cut into slices. DUTCH DROPS. This preparation for cuts and other wounds is also called Haarlem drops. It is a mixtuj-e of equal parts of oil of turpentine, tincture of guaiacum, and spirit of nitric ether, with a few drops of oils of amber and cloves. DUTCH GINGERBREAD. Mix with 4 lbs, of flour 2^ ozs. of beaten ginger; then rub in \ lb. of butter, and add 2 ozs. of caraways, as much of dried orange-peel powdered, some bruised coriander seeds, a little candied citron, and two eggs. Make the whole into a paste with 2^ lbs. of molasses, beat it well with a rolling-pin, and cut it into thirty cakes. Prick them with a fork, butter some papers, three double, one white and two brown; lay the cakes thereon, wash them over with white of egg, and put them into a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. DUTCH SAUCE. Put six spoonsful of water and four of vinegar into a saucepan, and when warm thicken the same with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but not boiling; squeeze therein the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. This is good with meat or fish. DUTCH SAUCE FOR MEAT. Put J lb. of butter into four spoonsful of water, dredge in a little flour, chop three anchovies, and add two spoonsful of vinegar; scrape a little horse-I 439 ] DYE DYE radish, and boil the whole together; then strain it through a sieve, and send it up hot. DYE FOR HAIR. The following is the best ever invented. Before applying it the hair should be well cleaned and freed from grease by washing it with a very weak solution of conimon soda. You must have two preparations ready, composed as follows :—No. 1. Mix hydrosul- phuret of ammonia, 1 oz.; solution of potash, 3 drachms ; distilled water, 1 oz. No. 2. Ni- trate of silver, 1 drachm ; distilled water, 2 ozs. Apply preparation No. 1 to the hair with a tooth-brush, and continue it on for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then brush over the hair No. 2, using a comb at the same time to separate the hairs, and to allow every part of them to be touched by the preparation. If the colour given be not dark enough repeat the application of each solution. Gloves should be worn whilst using No. 3, or the hands may be indelibly stained. DYEING. This is a chemical art, and con- sists in fixing upon cloths or other articles colours which shall not easily be altered by those agents to which they are generally ex- posed. The chief materials of stuffs to be dyed are wool, silk, linen, and cotton, the two former being the most easily dyed, owing to their greater attraction of the colouring matter. Considerable skill is required in ascertaining the various degrees of facility with which different substances attract and retain the colouring fluid, in order to apply the tinge of the intended hue ; and as there is no cause why any dye will ad- here to a substance except by an attraction sub- sisting between them, few colours are capable of indelibly fixing themselves by simple applica- tion. Wool is more easily dyed than any other material of which cloth is manufactured. In many parts of the kingdom wool and woollen yarn fur weaving or knitting into hose is dyed at home. It requires little preparation, nothing more, in fact, than to cleanse it by scouring from it a fatty substance called the yolk contained in the lleece. In order to effect this alkaline liquor is necessary, and that generally used is putrid urine, which contains just sufficient volatile alkali to unite with the grease, and render it soluble in water. Prejwed alkalies are also used ; but if these are too strong they will injure the wool. The rule is to apply the alkali in just sufficient sti'ength to convert the yolk into soap, and cause it to wash away fi'om the wool. In preparing silk it is usual to boil it with an alkali, to disengage the varnish with which it is covered when taken from the cocoon. Fine soap is commonly used for this purpose ; but the process is a delicate one, and the white China silk, which has a fine lustre, is supposed to be prepared without. These preliminaries are necessary for two reasons; first, to render the substance clear and clean, in order that it might imbibe the colouring fluid the more minutely ; and secondly, that the stuff may be rendered whiter, and enable the colours to exhibit more brilliant tints, and to reflect the light. Some of the preparatory inamersions form part of the dyeing process in addition to cleaning the stuff. These substances are described by the French word mordant (signifying sharp, biting), and are applied in order that the article may afterwards take a required tinge. By means of this mordant the process is varied, for if applied over the wliole piece in- tended to be dyed the colour will be general over the surface; if applied to parts the dye will strike those parts only. The latter method is adopted for calico-printing, or printing other substauces in pattern colours. The process is thus described by Berthollet:— The mordant employed for linens intended to receive different shades of red is prepared by dissolving in 8 lbs. of hot water 3 lbs. of alum and 1 lb. of acetate of lead, to which 10 ozs. of potash, and afterwards 10 ozs. of powdered chalk are added. In this mixture the sulphuric acid combines with the lead of the acetate, and falls down, because insoluble, while the aigillaceous acetic salt and the small quantities of alkali and chalk serve to neutralise any disengaged acid which might be contained in the liquid. Several advantages are obtained by thus changing the acid of the alum. First, the argil- laceous earth is more easily disengaged from the acetic acid in tlie subsequent jirocesses than it would have been from the sulphuric. Secondly, this weak acid does less harm when it seems to be disengaged by depriving it of the earth ; and thirdly, the acetate of alumina, not being crystallisable like the sulphate, does not separate or curdle by drying in the face of the blocks for printing when it is mixed with gum or starch. When the design has been impressed by transferring the mordant from the face of the wooden blocks to the cloth it is then put into a bath of madder, with proper attention that the wliole shall be equally exposed to this fluid. Here the piece becomes of a red colour, but deeper in those places where the mordant was a]iplied ; for some of tlie argillaceous earth had before quitted the acetic acid to combine with the cloth, and this serves as an intermedium to fix the colouring matter of the madder, in the same manner as the acid of galls fixes the particles of oxide of iron when an article in- tended to be dyed black is first soaked in thatDYE DYE [ 440 ] infusion. With the piece in this state the calico-printer has only now to avail himself of the difference between a fixed and a fugitive colour. He therefore boils the piece with bran, and spreads it on the grass. The fecula of the bran takes up part of the colour, and the action of the sun and air renders more of it conjbinable vith the same substance. In other cases the elective attraction of the stuff to be dyed has a more marked agency. A very common ynordant for woollens is made by dissolving alum and tartar together, neither of which is decomposed, but may be recovered by crystallisation in evaporating the liquor. Wool is found to be capable of decomposing a solution of alum, and combining with its earth ; but it seems as if the presence of disengaged sulphuric acid served to injure the wool, which is rendered harsh by this method of treatment, though cot- tons and linens, which have less attraction for the earth, are not. Wool also decomposes the alum in a mixture of alum and tartar ; but in this case there can be no disengagement of sul- phuric acid, as it is immediately neutralised by the alkali of the tartar. Metallic oxides have so great an attraction for many colouring substances that they quit the acid in which they were dissolved, and are precipitated in combination with them. These oxides are also found by experiment to be strongly disposed to combine with animal sub- stances, whence, in many instances, they serve as mordants, or the medium of union between the colouring particles and animal bodies. It appears, then, that the hues which the com- pounds of metallic oxides and colouring particles assume are the product of the colour peculiar to the colouring panicles, and of that peculiar to the metallic oxide. The whole of the operative part of dyeing depends on the application of certain colours, which the workmen call primitive, and which are five in number, namely, hlue, red, yellow,/awn, or root colour, and black. Each of these furnishes a variety of intermediate shades, both according to the nature of the ingredients and the acid or alkaline substances with which they are mixed- Two only of these five colours should be pre- pared with ingredients producing no colour of themselves, but which, by their peculiar acidity and the fineness of the earth they contain, dis- pose the poi'es of the substance to receive the dye. The colours which more particularly require such auxiliary pirocess are,red and yellow, together with those derived from them. Black is ob- tained by a particular preparation ; but blue and fawn colour require none, at least for wool, it being only necessary to scour and soak this substance well, then to immerse it in the dye- ing vat, stirring it well about, and permitting it to remain for a longer or shorter time, in pro- portion as the colour is intended to be more or less deep. The ingredients used in dyeing blue consist of pastel, voad, and indigo. Pastel (Isatis tinctoria) is prepared by gather- ing it when ripe, suffering it to rot, and then working it up into balls for drying, which weigh in general from 150 lbs. to 200 lbs., and re- semble a collection of small dry lumps of earth intermixed with the fibres of plants. In order to extract the coloiir it is necessary to provide large wooden vats from twelve to sixteen feet in diameter, and six or seven feet high, or of a magnitude proportioned to the quantity intended to be used. The preparation of the blue vat is the most difficult process in the art of dyeing, and the practical directions given by those who understand it are either defective or mis-stated. The copper cauldron should be placed as near to thfi vat as possible, and filled with pond watei% to which, if it be not sufficiently putrid, may be added 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of hay, together with 8 lbs. of brown madder or of the bark of the root. The fire should be lighted about three o'clock in the morning, and the mixture boil for an hour and a half or two hours, when the liquor is, by means of a spout, conveyed into the vat, in which a peck of wheaten bran is previously infused. The pastel balls are next to be put in separately while the liquor is running into the vat, in order that they may be the more easily broken and stirred with the rake, which is a semi- circular wooden instrument, having a long handle. The mixture is occasionally agitated till the vat has received all the hot liquor, and as soon as the vessel is nearly half full it should be covered with a lid somewhat larger than its own circumference. A cloth should be likewise thrown over it in order to confine the heat, after which the whole should be suffered to sub- side for four hours, when it ought to bg un- covered, in order to give it air and to mix it thoroughly. No lime, as is generally, though falsely directed by dyer§, should be put into the vat, but a small air hole left on the tpp. The stirring and agitation may once more be re- peated-at the expiration of three or four hours. If the ingredients after these operations be not yet ready and come to, that is, if the blue does not rise to the syrface, but continues to foam, it will then be necessary, after working the mixture well, to let it stand an hour and a half longer, care heing taken during that time to observe it minutely in case it should cast blue. The vat is then to be filled up with water, and a sufficient quantity of indigo dissolved in a ley of potash, pure water, bran, and madder. The vat being again covered at the end of three hours a pattern is to be immereed in the liquorDYE [ ^41 ] DYE for a similar space of time, when it is to be taken out to inspect the state of the vat. This pattern, when first taken out, should be of a green colour, but instantly turn blue. If the green be bright and good the vat is to be stirred again, and then covered up, with the addition of a few handsful of bran. Three hours after the same operation is to be repeated, with the addition of more bran if necessary, when it is to be covered up for an hour and a half longer, and as soon as it subsides another specimen is to be immersed in it for an hour, when it must be examined to ascertain the state of the pastel. If the former be of a good green when taken out, and turns suddenly to a deep blue on being exposed to the air, another pattern is to be put in to dis- cover the effect of the vat, which, if the colour be sufficiently high, is to be filled with hot water, or (which is preferable if it can be pro- cured) with the liquor of an old madder vat, and then stirred again, Now the vat is to be once more covered for an hour, after which the stuffs to be dyed should be immersed. WoAD is the next article in the making of a blue colour. The mode of preparing i|; differs in no respect from the preceding one just desciibed, excepting that it is weaker, and yields less colour. Indigo is the last ingredient in dyeing blues. The vat is about five feet high, two feet in diameter, and somewhat narrower towards the bottom^being surrounded by a wall, and having a vacancy for the embers. Avat of this size requires from 2 lbs. to 5 lbs., or even 6 lbs. of indigo, and this operation is conducted as follows:—1. About 15 gallons of river water are put into a copper to boil for about half an hour, together with 2 lbs. of potash, 2ozs. of madder, and a handful of bran. 2. Immerse 2 lbs. of indigo in a pail of cold water, in order to separate the solid from the volatile particles, which will immediately rise to the surface. The watery liquor is then poured off, and the indigo settled at the bottoin of the pail should be triturated in an iron mortar, with the addition of a smalj quantity of hot water, which ought to be shaken from side to side ; and the floating particles of indigo, which are those most finely pounded, must be poured into another vessel. In this manner the indigo remaining in the mortar is continually reduced, fresh water being repeatedly added till the whole is pulverised so finely as to rise to the surface. The liquor which had, during the above-stated preparation, been boiling in the copper, is now poured into the vat, together with the indigo, when the whole is well stirred with a rake, the v;it closely covered, and surrounded with embers. If this operation is commenced in the afternoon the embera must be renewed in the evening, and also in the morning and evening of the following day, in the course of which they should be twice gently stirred. Similar measures ought to be pursued on the third day, in order to preserve a uniform heat and intimately mix the ingre- dients. A brassy scum will then be perceived to lise to the surface in several detached parts. By continuing the heat on the fourth day the scum becomes rnore coherent, and tlie froth occasioned by stirring the liquor appears blue, while the latter is of a deep green. As soon as it assumes this appearance the vat should be filled, for which purpose a fresh liquor must be prepared by putting 5 gallons of water into a copper, together with 1 lb. of potash and i oz. of madder. When these ingredients have boiled half an hour the decoction is poured into the vat, the whole well stirred, and if it produces much froth it will be in a proper state for work- ing the next day. This may likewise be ascer- tained by the brassy or scaly ci'ust which floats on the surface of the liquor, and farther, if on blowing or stirring the latter with the hand, it assumes a deep green colour, while the surface appears of a brownish blue. After the vats have been thus pi-epared the dyeing of woollen or silken stuffs is very easy, no other process being required than immersing them in warm water, wringing, and then steep- ing them in the VE^t for a longer or shorter time, according to the deepness of the colour intended to be imparted. The stuff should be occa sionally opened, that is, taken out of the vat, wrung oyer it, and exposed to the air for a minute or two till it becomes blue ; for it must be obsei-ved that in all the solutions of indigo, or other dyeing materials above described, the blue colour is produced only by exposure to the air, and the stuff on being first drawn out of the liquor always appears green, and will retain that tinge unless it be exposed to the air. In dyeing blue, therefore, it is necessary to let the colour thus change previously to a second immersion, that the shade may be the better distinguished, as dark blues require to be repeatedly dipped. The method of dyeing cotton or linen blue varies so little from that already described as to render any farther directions unnecessary. The next of the primitive colours to be considered is eed, of which there are many shades and varieties; but the principal are scarlet, crimson, and madder red. The process to be adopted for obtaining these colours essen- tially differs from that of blues, as the formed require a peculiar preparation of the stuffs to be dyed, on the exactness of which the good- ness of the colour in a great measure depends. These preparatory ingredients consist of alum, tartar, aquafortis, or a solution of tin in this acid. Galls and alkaline salts are also some-DYE DYE I 442 ] times added, though they do not materially con- tribute to the colour. There are three kinds of scarlet, namely, that dyed with kernies, with cochineal, and with gum lac. The first of these, called Venetian scarlet, is the most permanent, hut the least bright. It is also apt to be less spotted than the others ; but, on account of the difBculty of procuring the insects which afford the colour, it is very seldom if ever used in this country. The second kind of scarlet, namely, that dyed with cocJiineal, is less permanent than the Vene- tian scarlet, though the drug is procured at a more reasonable price. It is, however, very difficult to dye the true cochineal scarlet. The success of this operation equally depends upon the choice of the material, the water employed, and the method of preparing a solution of tin, ■which is the only ingredient by which that delicate colour can be produced. To 8 ozs. of spirit of nitre an equal quantity of river water is to be added. In this mixture are to be gradually dissolved ^ oz. of the purest and whitest sal ammoniac, and drachms of puri- fied saltpetre. An ounce of tin, reduced to grains by being dropped into cold water while melting, is next to be added drop by drop to the liquor thus prepared, the first being perfectly dissolved before a second is introduced. The solution resembles that of gold, and if fine tin be em- ployed will be perfectly transparent, without any dust or sediment. With this liquor are to be mixed such proportions of cochineal as may be thought proper, and the stuffs dyed in the colour will acquire a most beautiful scarlet. The scarlet produced by gum lac, though not 80 bright as cochineal, is more permanent. The best lac is that which is of a blackish brown colour on the outside, and white within. The process of pi-eparing this colour is very diffi- cult; but the best method, we believe, is that of previously mixing the gum with comfrey or other mucilaginous roots. Tbese should be diied, finely pulverised, afterwards boiled for fifteen minutes in the proportion of half a drachm to a quart of water, then strained through a linen cloth while hot, poured upon levigated gum lac, and passed through a hair sieve, The whole is then digested i\\ a modei'ate heat for twelve hours, and the gum remaining at the bottom should be stiired seven or eight times. The liquor thus impregnated with a fine crimson colour is afterwards poured into a vessel suffi- ciently capacious to hold four times the quantity, and filled up with cold water. On adding a small proportion of a strong solution of alum the coloured mucilage subsides, and should any tinge remain in the liquor it may be precipitated by gradual additions of alum till it becomes perfectly colourless. As soon as the crimson mu- cilage has entirely subsided the clear water must be carefully decanted, the remainder filtered, and the fluid parts suffered to evaporate. If the whole of the colour should not be extracted by the first operation it ought to be repeated till the residuum changes to a pale straw colour. In order to dye scarlet with this extract of gum lac the requisite proportion of the latter, dried and pulverised, is to be put into an earthen or block-tin vessel, a little hot water poured upon it, and when it is well moistened a proper quantity of the composition added, the whole being stirred with a glass pestle. By this means the powder, which before was of a dark, dusky purple, acquires an exceedingly bright scarlet colour. A solution of the crystals of tartar is then to be poured into the liquor, and, as soon as it begins to boil, the cloth is to be re- peatedly immersed in it,according to the common method. The remainder of the operation is to be performed in the same manner as if cochineal had been employed. Crimson is the colour produced by cochineal, with alum and tartar only, without any solution of tin. For this dye 2J ozs. of alum, with IJoz. of white tartar, are to be taken for every pound of wool, and, being put into a cauldron with a proper quantity of water, the solution should boil before the stuff is dipped. The wool is then immersed in the boiling liquor, where it continues two hours, after which it is to be taken out, wrung gently, rinsed in water, and put into a bag. A fresh liquor is next pre- pared for the dye, in which 1 oz. of finely powdered cochineal is used for every pound of wool. When this decoction boils the stuff is immersed, and managed in the maimer already directed for scarlet. For producing the finest crimson dye, however, the wool is again to be dipped in a weak lixivium, made of equal parts of sal ammoniac and pearl ashes, Tlie preparation of the ingredients for madder BED is always with alum and tartar, the propor- tions of which are by no means ascertained even by dyers. The more general practice is to put 5 ozs. of alum and 1 oz. of red tartar to every pound of worsted, a twelfth part of acid water being like- wise added, and the wool boiled for two hours in this solution, in which worsted is to be kept for a week; but cloth will be sufficiently saturated in four days. A fresh liquor is then prepared for dyeing this wool, and when the water is nearly boiling ^ lb. of the finest madder is to be thrown in for every pound of wool, being carefully stirred and well mixed in the copper previously to immersing the stuff, which is to be kept in the liquor for an hour, during which the latter must not boil, lest it should tarnish the colour. The third primitive colour is ykllow, forDYE DYE [ 443 ] obtaining which thei"e are ten different ingre- dients; but four of these only yield a good and permanent dye, namely, dyers' weed, or, as the dyers call it, weld, savory, dyers' green-weed, and fenugreek. The first of these, namely, weld, in general affords the truest yellow, and is therefoie pre- ferred to all the others. Savory and dyers green- weed, being naturally somewhat green, are more advantageously employed for dyeing that colour; and the last yields different shades of yellow. In order to dye worsted and stuffs yellow they undergo the usual preparation with tartar and alum. Of the latter 4 ozs. are allowed to every pound of wool, or So lbs. to every 100 lbs. Of the former 1 oz. is sufficient for yellow. After dissolving both the wool is boiled in the same manner as in the preceding colour. A fresh liquor is next to be made for the welding or yellowing, in the proportion of 5 lbs. or 6 lbs. of dyers' weed to every pound of stuff. Sopie inclose the drug in a clean woollen bag to pre- vent it from mixing with the cloth to be dyed, and in order to keep the bag down in the copper they lay a cross of heavy wood over it. Others boil the weld in the liquor till the water has imbibed all its colour, and the drug sinks to the bottom, when the stuff is suspended in a net. Others, again, take the weld out as soon as it is boiled. According to the shade I'equired other vegetables are occasionally mixed with that drug. By varying the proportions of the salts employed, as well as the quantity of colouring ingiedients and the time of boiling, different shades may be produced. The fourth primitive colour is that denomi- nated by dyers the fawn or root colour. It is a kind of brown, and the process for dyeing it is widely different from those 'just described, the wool merely requiring a simple immersion in water as already directed for blue. The materials employed consist of the green shell of the walnut, the root of the ivalnut tree, the bark of alder, sanded or sanders wood, sumach, and soot. The green walnut shells are collected when the nuts are thoroughly ripe. They are put into tubs or casks, which are afterwards filled with water, and are thus preserved till the succeeding year. Sandal or sanders wood is much inferior to walnut shells, because if used in too large a quantity it stiffens, and consequently injures, the wool. It is in general mixed with galls, sumach, and alder bark, without which its colour could not be extracted; and though it yields very little with alum and tartar, it is never- theless used in large quantities on account of the solidity of its colour, which is naturally a yellow reddish brown. The best of the different ingredients em- ployed in dyeing fawn colours is the hark or rind of the walnut tree. Its shades are uncom- monly fine, its colours solid, and it renders the wool dyed in it flexible and soft. A cauldron half full of water is placed over the fire, and, as soon as it grows warm, bark is added in propor- tion to the quantity of stuffs intended to be dyed, and the lightness or depth of the shades required. It is then boiled for about a quarter of an hour, when the cloths, being previously moistened with warm water, are immersed, fre- quently turned, and well stirred till they have sufficiently imbibed the colour. They are aired,- dried, and dressed in the usual manner. Next to the rind or bark the root of the walnut tree is the best dye for a fawn colour. It also affords a variety of shades similar to those pro; duced by the bark, for which it is frequently sub- stituted. The root, however, requires a different process. A cauldron is filled about three parts full of river water, into which the root is im- mersed, after being tied up in a bag. When the liquor is very hot the wool or stuff is plunged into it, repeatedly turned, and occasionally aired. The lighter stuffs are next to be dipped till the colour is completely extracted. Durnig this operation proper care should be taken to pre- vent the liquor from boiling, as in such case the piece first immersed would imbibe the whole of the colour. The process of dyeing with the hark of alder is nearly the same as that pursued with walnut roots. The boiling of it is at first not very material, as this drug very freely com- municates its colour. It is chiefly used for worsteds, imparting shades darkened with cop- peras, and for wool that is not required to be very dark, as it equally withstands the effects of the sun and rain. Suniach possesses nearly the same properties as the bark or rind of the walnut tree. Its colour is not so deep, somewhat inclining to green, but is solid and permanent. Where dark colours are required sumach is frequently substituted for nut-galls, in which case a greater proportion becomes necessary. These different substances, however, are not unfrequently mingled together, and as they are of a similar nature, and differ only in degree, it is easy to obtain various shades. With respect to the method of compounding the different ingredients with pulverised san- ders wood, 4 lbs. of the latter are to be put into a copper, with i lb. of powdered nut-galls, 12 lbs of alder bark, and 10 lbs. of sumach, The whole is to be boiled, when a small portion of water should be added to check the boiling. After immersing the cloth, stirring and turning it repeatedly, it is aired, and washed in river vrateF. The quantities of these ingredients may[ 444 ] DYE DYE be increased or diminished according to the depth of the shade required. The last substance employed in dyeing the fawn colour is soot, which is not only less solid than the others, but also hardens, and imparts a very disagreeable smell to the wool or stuff dyed in it. It is, therefore, seldom if ever used, unless the other ingredients cannot be easily procured. The fifth and last of the primitive colours is BLACK, which includes a great variety of shades. In order to impart a good black to woollen stuffs they should be first dyed of as deep a blue as possible, which is called the ground, and is to be performed in the manner already dii'ected. As soon as the cloth is taken out of the vat it ought to be well washed in river water, and afterwards scoured at the fulling mill. Next the dyeing process is performed as follows :— For every cwt. of cloth 10 lbs. of logwood cut into chips, and an equal quantity of Aleppo gall- nuts pulverised and inclosed in a bag, are to be put into a cauldron of a moderate size, where the whole is boiled for twelve hours in a suffi- cient quantity of water. A third part of this liquor is then to be poured into another cauldron, with 2 lbs. of verdigris, when the cloth is to be immersed for two hours, being repeatedly turned and stirred, the liquor in the meantime boiling very slowly, or rather, gently simmering. At the expiration of that time the stuff is to be taken out, and the second part (being another third) of the liquor added to the first third, to- gether with 8 lbs. of copperas. The fire be- neath the cauldron is then to be diminished, and the copperas left for half an hour to dis- solve, the liquor being gradually cooling, after which the cloth is to be immei'sed for another hour, repeatedly turned as before, then removed and cooled. The remainder of the liquor is next to be mixed with the first two-thirds, and the bag carefully expressed, when 15 lbs. or SO lbs. of sumach are to be added, together with 2 lbs. of copperas. The whole is then made to boil, and a small quantity of water being added to cool, the stuff is again immersed for two hours, at the end of which time it is to be taken out, cooled, and steeped in the dye for an hour longer, being fre- quently turned. The cloth is then to be carded to the fulling mill, and well scoured till the water rvms from it perfectly colourjess. As soon as this operation is performed a fresh liquor should be prepared with the necessary quantity of dyers' weed, which is only to be boiled once, and when cool the cloth dipped into it. This last decoction softens the texture, and renders the colour a most beautiful black. Few dyers, however, take so much pains ; for they ai'6 satisfied with dipping the cloth when blue into a decoction of nut-galls, and boiling the whole for two hours. The stuff is then washed, and, after adding some copperas and logwood to the liquor, the cloth is again immersed for two hours, at the end of which it is washed, scoured, dried, and pressed. The following are the dye-stuffs used by calico- printers for producing fast colours. The mor- dants are thickened with gum or calcined starch, and applied with the block, roller, plates, or pencil. Fast Colours. Black. The cloth is im- pregnated with acetate of iron (iron liquor), and dyed in a bath of madder and logwood. Purple. The preceding mordant of iron di- luted, with the same dyeing bath. Crimson. The mordant for purple, united with a portion of acetate of alumina, or red mordant, and the above bath. Acetate of alu- mina is made for this purpose by decomposing alum with acetate of lead, or with aqueous acetate of lime, having a speciiic gravity of 10-50, a gallon of which, equivalent to ^ lb. avoirdupois of dry acetic acid, is employed for every 2f lbs. of alum. Red. Acetate of alumina is the mordant, and madder is the dye-stuff. Pale Red of different shades. The preceding mordaiit diluted with water, and a weak madder bath. Brown or Pompadour. A mixed mordant, containing a somewhat larger proportion of the red than of the black, and the dye of madder. Orange. The red mordant, and a bath first of madder, and then of^quercitron. Yellow. A strong red mordant, and the quer- citron bath, the temperature of which should be considerably under the boiling point of water. Blue. Indigo rendered soluble and greenish j'ellow, coloured by potash and orpiment. It re- ceives its blue colour by exposure to the air, and thereby also fixes firmly on the cloth. An indigo vat is also made with that blue substance diffused in water with quicklinie and copperas. These substances are supposed to deoxidise indigo, and at the same ti^^e to render it soluble. Golden Dye. The cloth is immersed alter- nately in a solution of copperas and lime waten The protoxide of iron precipitated on the fibre soon passes, by absorption of atmospherical oxy- gen, into the golden-coloured deutoxide, Buff. The preceding substances in a more diluted state. Blue Vat, in which v'hite spots are left on a blue ground of cloth, is made by applying to these prints a paste composed of sulphate .of copper and pipe-clay, and after they are dried immersing them, stretched on frames for a definite number of minutes, in the yellowish-green y&t ofDYS DYS [ 445 ] one part indigo, two of copperas, and two of lime with water. Green. Cloth dyed blue and well washed is imbrued with aluminous acetate, dried, and sub- jected to tlie quercitron bath. In the above cases the cloth, after receiving the mordant paste, is dried, and put through a mixture of covvdung and warm water. It is then put into the dyeing vat. FuGiTiVK Colours. All these colours are given by making decoctions of the different colouring woods, and receive the slight degree of fixity they possess, as well as great brilliancy, in consequence of their combination or admix- ture with the nitro-muriate of tin. Red is frequently made from Brazil and peach wood. Black. A strong extract of galls and deuto- nitrate of iron. Pwple. Extract of logwood end the deuto- nitrate. Yellow. Exti'act of quercitron bark or French berries, and the tin solution. Blue. Prussian blue and solution of tin. Fugitive coloxirs are thickened with gum tra- gacanth, which leaves the cloth in a softer state than gum Senegal, the goods being frequently sent to market without being washed. DYSENTERY. This disease, vulgarly called the flux, is an inflammation of the membrane lining the intestines. It is attended with frequent stools, severe griping pains, fre- quent desire of stools, which are small in quantity and not of the natural kind, consisting principally of slimy matter, and not unfrequently streaked with blood. When the natural evacua- tions do make their appearance they usually come away in small, compact, hard bodies. It occurs chiefly in autumn, and is often occasioned by moist or cold weather suddenly succeeding intense heat or great drought, which checks the perspii'ation, and determines it towards the in- testines. It is also occasioned by eating unwholesome and putrid food, and by noxious exhalations of vapours; but when it prevails epidemically it may be attributed to a particular disposition of the atmosphere. It also occurs about the same time with the intermittent and remittent fevers of autumn, and is frequently combined with typhus fever, &c. This disease may be distinguished from diarrhcea or looseness by the absence in the latter of fever and frequent desire of going to stool, as well as by the other symptoms already enumerated. In the treatment of this complaint it is usual to begin with a gentle emetic of ipecacuanha in the evening, administering the next morning castor oil, or some saline purgative, which should be repeated every second or third day, .for the purpose of procuring a discharge of the natural motions :—Take castor oil, 1 oz. Or, Epsom salts, 1 oz.; manna, | oz.; hot water ^ and mint water, of each 2^ ozs.; tincture of rhubarb, 2 drachms; of which four table- spoonsful may be taken occasionally. Should these not prove sufficient to procure the natural stools in a sufficient degree stronger purgatives must then be employed. Small doses of some diaphoretic medicine, such as three grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha made into a pill with some aromatic confection, may be taken every five hours, to determine the circulation from the intestines to the surface of the body after proper evacuations, so as to produce and keep up a gentle perspira- tion. If the disease be accompanied with violent retching and vomiting a gentle emetic may be given in such cases. The contents of the stomach may be discharged by the mild stimulus of a decoction or infusion of camomile flowers, giving, afterwards small doses of opium ; and when the pains are griping and severe, flannels wrung out of the same, to which, for this purpose, poppy heads have been added, and applied as hot as the patient can endure them over the parts, may afford relief; but should these not produce the desired effect it will be advisable to apply a blister. In the acute stage of dysentery the patient may be relieved by a warm bath of moderate temperature. On his being taken out of the bath the abdomen should be rubbed witli some warm stimulating liniment:—Take opo- deldoc, 2 ozs.; tincture of opium, J oz.; oil of rosemary, 1 drachm. Mix, and use for an em- brocation. The patient should drink plentifully of muci- laginous solutions, such as those of gum arabic, barley water, rice, arrowroot, &c.; clysters, also, of a similar nature should be given, to which from thirty to sixty drops of the tincture of opium may be occasionally added. All straining at stool should be avoided; nor should the morbid calls of nature, namely, the vain attempts to go to stool in this disease, be always attended to, for if these be always complied with the straining which ensues will prove highly injurious. If the fundament becomes inflamed or excoriated the parts should be anointed with pomatum or hogs' lard after each evacuation. At the commencement of the disease neither opiates nor astringent medicines should be em- ployed ; but in the second stage, when the patient is exhausted by the severity of the symptoms and their frequent return, they will be of service, ob- serving from time to time, and during their use, to evacuate the contents of the bowels by giving a few grains of rliubarb. The following may then betakenat bedtime, viz., from 1 to 2 grains of opium, with 2 grains of antimonial powder, made into a pill. The next day take extractC 4i6 ] DYS 2 scruples ; rhubarb, 5 grains; powdered nut- constitutions there is almost constant thirst. of logwood, 1 drachm ; chalk mixture, 4 ozs. tiucture of catechu, 2 drachms ; spirit of nut- meg, 1 oz. Two table-spoonsful every four hours. Or, take aromatic confection, \ \ drachm; cinnamon water, 5 ozs.; spirit of pimento, 1 oz.; tincture of kino, from 1 to 2 drachms. To be taken as the former, adding to each dose 10 drops of the tincture of opium. During the time the patient is using these astringent remedies he may take port wine and water or weak brandy and water as his ordinary drink. The tone of the intestines may be restored by the use of tonics and bitters, such as decoction of bark, gentian, &c., together with light nutritious diet and moderate exercise. All food which runs readily into putrefaction should be avoided during the course of the dis- ease, as well as fermented and spirituous liquors. The patient's strength should be supported with preparations of barley, rice, sago, flour, Indian arrowroot boiled in milk, varied occasionally for jellies and gelatinous broths, by warm clothing, &c. As dysentery is generally con- sidered infectious every precaution should be taken to prevent the disease from spreading, by means of free ventilation and cleanliness, moving the patient's stools, sprinkling the room and bedclothes with a little warm vinegar, often changing the body and bed linen, &c. DYSPEPSIA. This disease or derangement of the digestive organs, according to a very eminent surgeon, is the cause of almost all the complaints which the " flesh is heir to." It arises principally in adults from between thirty to forty yeai s of age, and is most frequently met with in people who lead sedentary or irregular lives, in those who are much devoted to study, &c. There is one peculiarity attendant on this disease, that is, it may, and often does, continue for a considerable length of time without any increase or diminution of the symptoms. Among the causes which commonly occasion indigestion are the following, viz., affections of the mind, such as great grief; an inactive life, profuse dis- charges, spirituous liquors, intense study, excess in venery, hard drinking, particularly of warm diluent liquors, such as tea, &c.; immoderate repletion, the use of tobacco, opium, and other stupefactive substances, diminution or interrup- tion of the due secretion of the saliva, deficient secretion of bile, &c., diseases of the liver and spleen, exposure to sudden transitions of heat and cold, &c. The symptoms are, furred and white tongue, a disagreeable taste in the mouth in the morning, vnd the breath in most instances, notwithstanding the greatest care, acquires an offensive smell. With hard drinkers nausea and vomiting fre- quently occur in the morning, and in ruined feverishness, loss of appetite and strength, shortness of breath, pale countenance, languor, and towards the close dropsical swellings. In addition to defective appetites, in complaints of the stomach there is a high degree of flatulency, acidity, and heartburn; the patient is frequently afflicted with costiveness, swimming in the head, ringing in the ears, palpitations of the heart, &c.; and although dyspeptic complaints may be alleviated or removed by desisting in time from bad habits, and taking proper medicines, never- theless, when they are of long continuance, so as to bring on a considerable degree of weakness, and pass into other diseases, or when they originate in organic aff"ections, they will most assuredly prove fatal. In addition to the symptoms above enumerated the mind is frequently excessively irritable and depressed, and great anxiety is observable in the countenance. The slightest exercise is produc- tive of considerable fatigue and perspiration. During the night restlessness prevails, the sleep is unrefreshing, and disturbed with frightful dreams and startings, and occasionally with moajiings and a sense of heavy weight on the chest (the nightmare). It may also be compli- cated with other complaints. In the treatment of dyspepsy three things are to be attended to. Firstly, to avoid or re- ipove the causes of the complaint; secondly, to remove the symptoms which contribute to, or which tend to aggravate, the disease; thirdly, to restore, if possible, the tone of the stomach. In effecting the first of these intentions the patient should implicitly renounce those habits and pursuits which laid the foundation of the disease, that he may not defeat the benefit of the measures employed, by observing the most rigid temperance and regularity, removing to fresh pure air, shunning luxurious tables and inactivity, observing regular hours, rising early in the morning, walking out in the fields, using simple diet, abstaining from drinking, smoking, &c.; in short, by avoiding all the causes which give rise to the disease. In the second place, and with the second intention in view, the symptoms which continue to contribute to, or aggravate, the disease must be obviated, if possible, by clearing out the stomach by means of a gentle emetic^ such, for instance, as any of those forms already prescribed; by correcting acidities by means of alkaline remedies, such as magnesia, chalk, lime water, &c.; by taking 3 or 4 fluid ozs. of the latter, or the following:—Take magnesia, 3 drachms ; rhubarb, 1 scruple ; pure water, 4 ozs.; cinnamon water, 1 oz.; compound tincture of lavender, ■J drachm ; of which two table-spoonsfitl three times a day may be given. Or, take magnesia,DYS [ 447 1 UYS ir.eg, 8 grains. Mix and make a powder, to be taken morning and evening. And to allav the pain and flatulency in the stomach and in- testines take prepared chalk, 1 drachm ; pepper- mint water, 2 ozs.; pure water, 4 ozs. ; spirit of pimento, 1 oz.; tincture of opium, 50 drops. Make a mixture, of which two table-spoonsful may be taken three or four times a day, to which a drachm of ether may occasionally be added. And, lastly, to remove costiveness, gentle laxatives combined with aromatics ; for example, take socotrine aloes and rhubarb in powder, of each 1 drachm ; aromatic powder, .1 scruple; Castile soap, ^ drachm; syrup enough to form the whole into a mass, which is to be divided into fifty pills, of which two or three may be taken for a dose. Or, take rhu- barb, 1 scruple; ginger, 5 grains ; mngnesia, i drachm. Mix for a powder, to be taken occasionally. Stools procured at regular and stated intervals by soliciting them by voluntary and persevering efforts, such as every morning, will operate as a powerful opiate in aiding the other means employed, and, although some days, nay, weeks, may elapse before this regularity be pi'ocured, the patient will evidently succeed if he con- tinue his endeavours to obtain a motion every morning. Where indigestion is occasioned by a defective secretion of bile, in consequence of a diseased state of the liver, spleen, or biliary ducts, calomel may be given to the amount of three, four, or five grains every third or fourth night, made into a pill, succeeded the next morning by a draught composed of 3 ozs. of senna infusion with 2 drachms of Epsom salts. As the food and drink we daily consume to supply the waste of the body necessarily leave behind a useless matter, a daily motion of the bowels is extremely salutary, particularly in persons subject to costiveness ; and where the -bile is deficient, as may be known by the clayey appearance of the stools, the following pills will be found to answer this purpose:—Take of compound gamboge pill. 6 grains ; extract of bitter apple, 6 grains; calomel, 2 grains; tar- tarised antimony, i grain ; oil of cloves, 2 drops; simple syrup enough to make a mass. Divide it into four pills; two to be taken every third night at bedtime. To obviate the henrtburn and vomiting attendant on indigestion a blister may be applied over the stomach ; and to accomplish the third intention, viz., that of restoring the tone of the stomach, such medicines should be employed as are known to operate directly on this organ, adopting such other means as are : calculated to strengthen the system generally, ;as aromatics and astringent bitters, e.g.;—Take infusion of gentian, 6 ozs.; tiactureof cardamoms, 1 oz ; tincture of myrrh, k oz. Make a mixture, and take two table-spoonsful three or four times a day. Or, take gentian root bruised, 1 oz.; sweet flag root sliced, and cardamom seeds, of each 6 drachms; dried orange-peel, I oz.; white wine, I quart. Let them infuse or steep for eight days, and afterwards let the patient take a wine-gh^ssful twice a day. The Peruvian bark, mineral acids, and prepara- tions of steel may also be given, the latter in particular, where the appetite is impaired and capricious, viz., take wine of iron, 1 oz.; infusion of gentian, 6 ozs.; tincture of cascarilla, 4 drachms. Mix, and take two table-spoonsful twice or thrice a day. Or, take extract of Peruvian bark and extract of gentian, of each 1 drachm ; sulphate of iron, ^ drachm; pow- dered myrrh, 1 drachm; syrup of ginger enough to form the whole into a mass, to be made into sixty pills, of which take three twice or thrice a day, washing them down with a wine-glassful of the infusion of cascarilla bark. In addition to this means for strengthening and restoring the tone of the stomach and digestive organs generally, the patient should take daily exercise on horseback, which is pre- ferable to walking, where it can conveniently be indulged in without fatiguing or over-exerting himself; he should breathe a pure, dry, and temperate air; lead a regular life, get soon to bed, rise early, and use light animal food for his diet, avoiding farinaceous vegetables; adapt Lis dress to the climate and changes of the weather, and attend to the state of his bowels by never being too long costive. Frequent bathing in cold water during the season is also recommended. The mineral waters are of themselves powerful remedies in cases of dyspepsy, and the Buxton water is found of considerable service in ob- viating many of the symptoms of defective digestion originating in a life of high indulgence and intemperance. Change of scene, by amusing the mind at the same time that the body is employed, is of essential importance in dyspepsy, as well as in many other chronic diseases ; and much, if not the whole of the benefit derived from visiting watering places, may be attributed to the amuse- ment afforded to the mind alone, while in the water itself there may be no virtue at all. Dyspeptic people should never make a full meal, but eat a little at a time and often, chewing it well with the saliva before swallowing it. Biscuit should be preferred to bread which is fermented. They should not drink diluent fluids at their meals, lest the solvent property of the saliva, an important agent in digestion, be diminished; nor should the quantity takeii after-[ 448 ] EAR EAR wards at one time e\er exceed half a pint. The flesh-brush used over the region of the stomach for some minutes about half an hour previously to eating, and a similar operation after a meal, is attended with considerable benefit. A moderate quantity of wine, such as Madeira or sheny, may be allowed; but should these disagree, and become acid on the stomach, weak brandy and water may be substituted for ordinary drink. Ardent spirits on no account should be taken; they are highly injurious, and cannot be too much avoided. E. EARACHE {Otalgia). This disorder chiefly aff'ects the membrane which lines the inner cavity of the ear, called the meatus auditor ins. It is often so violent as to occasion great rest- lessness, anxiety, and even delirium. Some- times epileptic fits and other convulsive disor- ders have been brought on by extreme pain iu the ear. The earache may proceed from any of the causes which produce inflammation. It often proceeds from a sudden suppression of perspira- tion, or from the head being exposed to cold when covered with perspiration. It may also be occasioned by insects getting into the ear, or from any hard body sticking in the ear. Some- times it proceeds from the gathering of matter to the ear. This often happens in the decline of malignant fevers, and occasions deafness, which is generally reckoned a favourable symptom. When the earache proceeds from insects, or any hard body sticking in the ear, every method must be taken to remove them as soon as pos- sible. The membranes may be relaxed by dropping into the ear oil of sweet almonds or olive oil. Afterwards the patient should be made to sneeze by taking snuff, or some strong sternutatory. If this should not force out the body it must be extracted by art, as by syringing the ear, or by the aid of the forceps. We have seen insects which had got into the ear come out of their own accord upon pouring in oil. When the pain of the ear proceeds from in- flammation it must be treated like other topical inflammations, by a cooling regimen and open- ing medicines. Bleeding at the beginning, either in the arm or jugular vein, or cupping in the neck, will be proper. The ear may likewise be fomented with the steam of warm water ; or flannel bags filled with boiled mallows and camomile flowers may be applied to it warm; or bladders filled with warm milk and water. An exceedingly good method of fomenting the ear is to apply it close to the mouth of a jug filled with warm water, or a strong decoctiou of camomile flowers. The patient's feet should be frequently bathed in warm water, and he ought to take small doses of nitre and rhubarb, viz., a scruple of the former and ten grains of the latter three times a day. His drink may be whey or decoction of barley and liquorice, with figs or raisins. The parts behind the ear ought frequently to be rubbed with camphorated oil, or a little of the volatile liniment, and a few drops of the cam- phorated spirit of wine may be put into the ear with wool or cotton. A blister behind the ear, if applied early, will sometimes remove this complaint. When the inflammation cannot be removed a poultice of bread and milk or roasted onions may be applied to the ear, and frequently re- newed till the abscess breaks or can be opened. Afterwards the humoui's may be diverted from the part by gentle laxatives, blisters, or issues; but the discharge must not be suddenly dried up by any external application. Earache occasionally continues for some time without any apparent inflammation, and is then frequently removed by filling the ear with cot- ton or wool, moistened with tincture of opium or ether, or even with warm oil or water. Pain in the ear is also sometimes the consequence of a diseased tooth, in which case the ether should, be applied to the cheek over the suspected tooth, or a grain of opium with a little camphor, or half a grain of the extract of belladonna, may be applied to the tooth itself. EARS are the organs by which we perceive the vibrations of the air which occasion sound. For this purpose our ears are formed partly of cartilages, and partly of bones, in order to com- municate these vibrations to the auditory nerves, and thence to the brain. This sense also is more acute in the lower animals than in the human species. The hare, for instance, is warned against approaching danger by her ex- quisitely fine ear ; and the owl, being sensible of the lowest sounds, makes use of her acute ear to assist her in the discovery of prey. The W'arm-blooded animals have an extei'nal and an internal ear, but in almost every species it is of a different structure. Most animals can move their ears—an advantage not enjoyed by man, though it was not nature which formed our ears immoveable, but an absurd custom, continued for many centuries, gradually pro- duced this effect. That the ears were not naturally designed to lie flat on the head is suf- ficiently obvious from the number of muscles with which they ai'e provided, and each of which is designed to perform different motions. The manner in which the sense of hearing is produced is shortly this. The vibrations of theEAR C 44Q 3 EAR 8 G ah', "xhich take place by the concussion of any elastic body, first strike the external ear; hence the sound agitates the tympanum. But that the vibrations may not become too violent, and the tympanum may not burst, as is to be appre- hended from a very loud and near sound, the ear is provided with a siphon, which anatomists call the Eustachian tube, and through which the air collected on the tympanum again escapes. But the vibration of the tympanum is also com- municated through the four little bones of the ear ; it is forwarded through what is called the stapes, or stirrup, to the vestibule, or the first entrance, and through the membrane of the fenestra rotunda as far as the innermost cavity of the ear, which resembles the shell of a snail, and is therefore called cochlea. The whole labyrinth of the ear is filled with a small quan- tity of fluid, which fluid gently agitates the substance of the auditory nerve, in consequence of which sound is communicated to the brain. The fluid contained in the labyrinth of the ear obviously serves the purpose of preventing the soft, pappy substance of the auditory nerve from being too violently agitated. The use of the cochlea, which is very arti- ficially constructed, cannot be easily deter- mined; it is probably rather designed for the more accurate dis''nction of the varieties of tones than for the perception of sounds in general, for we may consider the delicate nerves that run along the spiral line of this cochlea as a number of cords growing progressively shorter, and which in a manner repeat the external vibrations of the air in the internal parts of the ear. This repetition appears to be performed according to a geometrical scale, since the same vibrations of the air take place here in a reduced proportion. Hence sounds which are too loud and penetrating offend our ears, because they shake the auditory nerves too quickly and violently, so that these may even be lacerated and produce deafness ; but this is not the case when the tympanum is broken by accident. Some persons who are defective in this sense are obliged to make use of ear trumpets, and to turn their ear to the quarter whence the sound proceeds, to place the hand at the side of the ear, to open their mouth, or use some other assistant means. All this is done with a view to supply the motion of the ears, of which we have been deprived by habits contrary to the laws of nature: these motions the lower animals perform by pointing their ears in the direction from which the sound proceeds. In this manner the ear receives a greater proportion of sound, and many divisions of it which might otherwise escape are conveyed to the nerves. By means of the teeth and other bones of the head sounds may be conducted to the auditory nerves so as to communicate the ne- cessary vibrations to the internal ear, though we can hear more easily and distinctly when the sound comes through the organ itself. There is, however, a method of communicating sounds to the deaf with better success than by the common ear trumpets, which instruments at[ length entirely destroy that sense. Tliis is effected by means of a cylindrical rod or tube of ivor}', or any similarly hard substance. The tube may be from twelve to twenty-four inches long, and from a quarter to half an inch in diameter ; if it be made hollow throughout, the part which is placed in the mouth between the front teeth ought to have a much smaller aperture than the other extremity. This tube is well calculated to assist those deaf persons who wish to enjoy the music of a harp, harpsi- chord, or other instrument. We once knew a gentleman who wac quite deaf, but with the assistance of a cylinder such as we have described was enabled to hear the softest notes distinctly, and to enjoy all the pleasures of music. It is a false assertion that there is always a hole in the tympanum, for it is owing to the double opening of the Eustachian tube that many jugglers can cause the liquor they drink to flow out of the ear, in the same manner as they discharge the smoke of tobacco through the nose and ears. Besides the tube we have described there are various other instruments for aiding defective hearing. There are ear cornets, so called from having the form of the French horn adapted to the ears, held in their places by slender springs, and so coverable with the hair as to be scarcely observed. Conversation tubes are long elastic tubes of Iiidia rubber, with a mouth-piece for the speaker, and a tip to apply wiUiin the ear of the listener. Table sonifers are %vide-mouthed instruments placed upon a table near, and com- municating by an elastic tube with the ear of, the deaf person, and, when the mouth of the sonifer is turned towards the part of the room where conversation is going on, enabling the deaf person to hear it. Ear conchs are in imitation of the outer part of the ear, but of an enlarged size, and helping to collect the vibra- tions causing sound. We believe that all in- struments intended to aid defective hearing would be much more effective if the part touching the ear inclosed it instead of going within it. Before leaving this subject let us observe, that endeavouring to excuse the use of ear-rinys on the plea that piercing the ear-lobe strengthens the eyes is only adopting an absurd defence for a relic of barbarism. EARS, CALF'S : To Dkess. Having stewedEAR [ 450 ] EAU them till tender and white, make a forcemeat of minced veal and ham, two hard eggs, a few bread crumbs, aiid a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; pound the whole in a mortar, and then form it into a paste with a raw egg ; stuff .the ears with this, and glaze them over with some yolk of egg ; roll them in bread crumbs, lay some butter over them, and bake them till they are nicely browned. Garnish with fried parsley. EARS, LAMB'S: To Dbess. Scald them clean, put them into a pint of veal stock, and braise them till half done. Stew the ears till the liquor is nearly reduced, add some cullis, and stew them till tender. If intended to be served with white sauce proceed as before, adding thereto some egg. EARS, PIG'S : To Dress. Having cleaned the ears, boil them till so tender that the bones will come out easily; season with chopped sage, parsley, pepper, salt, and mace ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, and then pour off the whole into a dish. EARTHENWARE is a comprehensive term, including every kind of pottery, porcelain, and china wai-e. We can do no more than enumerate their particular names and localities. Bed pottery, including red pans, flower-pots, and such-like, is carried on in various counties; stoneware, including ginger-beer bottles, is the produce of Staffordshire; Wedgewood ware is especially from Burslem, in the same county; flesh-coloured ware is made at Lambeth from clay found near Maidstone ; terra cotta is manu- factured at Lowestoffe, in Leicestershire ; Ilock- ingham ware at Rotherham, in Yorkshire. Cole- hrookdale, Derby, Worcester, Nugarrow in Wales, and some other localities, are, or have been, also celebrated for their superior porcelain in our islands. Abroad, China, Dresden, Berlin, Vienna, but, above all, Sevres, near Paris, are distinguished for the excellence or beauty of their porcelain. It would not be within our purpose to enter more fully into particulars relative to these manufactories, but we will add directions for seasoning their productions. Put new earthenware into cold water to heat and boil gradually ; then let it grow cold again. While the water is boiling throw into it a hand- ful of bran. This preserves the glazing so that it will not be affected by salt or acid. Boiling, earthenware toughens it. EARWIG [Forficula auricularia). No greater fallacy exists than that which stigmatises this insect with its popular name. We believe that never was an instance known of the earwig penetrating the human ear ; indeed, no insects enter that ear designedly, for the bitterness of the cerumen, or ear-wax, is not only obnoxious, but fatal to them. Earwigs are injurious only to the wall-fruit grower and the florist. The only certain method of destroying them is by catching them, which is best effected by hollow tubes laid here and there in orchards and flower- beds. The common reed is fit for this purpose, but the hollow stem of the sunflower is even more so, as the insects are eager in the pursuit of the remains of the sweet pith. They are also easily caught between the folds of paper, or m pieces of cloth and linen laid on the ground. They creep into these traps in the morning after their nocturnal rambles, and may be shaken out and easily killed at any time of the day. Some amateurs of pinks and carnations place the feet of their flower-stands in vessels of water, which prevents the earwigs from creeping, but not from flying, upon the plants, for the earwig has wings. EAU D'ANGE {Angelic tmter). This fra- grant preparation is made by disc'lling two quarts from the following mixture :—Benzoin, 4 ozs.; storax, 2 ozs.; cloves, | oz.; calamus, J oz.; cinnamon, | oz.; coriander seeds, 1 drachm. Bruise together, and then mix with 5 pints of water. EAU D ARGENT {Silver water). Take the rinds of two oranges, the same of two lemons, a drachms of cinnamon broken in pieces, and 3 quarts of brandy; distil from this in the bain- marie alembic a quart of liqueur; dissolve 2|^lbs. of sugar in 3 pints of river water, and put the liqueur to it; strain, bottle, and finish it with silver leaf as directed for Eau d'Or. EAU D'ARQUEBUSADE. See Aeque- BusADE Water. EAU DE BOUQUET {Bouquet ivater). Mix together spirit of wine, 1 pint; essence of violets, \ oz.; spirit of rosemary, ^ oz.; essence of bergamot, \ drachm; essence of jasmine, ^ drachm; oil of lavender, \ drachm; oil of verbena, \ drachm ; rose water, J pint; orange- flower water, ^ oz. Mix, and filter through blotting paper. A delightful perfume for the toilet. EAU DE COLOGNE. See Cologke Water. EAU DE LA COTE. Take i lb. of the best cinnamon in powder, | lb. of dates, \ lb. of the best Turkey figs, and the zests of four cedrats ; put all these into 3 gallons of brandy, and let them infuse for six days. At the end of that period distil in a bain-marie. From this you will extract 6 quarts of the liqueur. Dissolve 9 lbs. of fine sugar in 6 quarts of distilled river ■water, add it to the liqueur, pass the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. EAU DIVINE {Divine water). This is an agreeable perfumed cordial. Mix essence of lemon, 1 drachm, and essence of bergamot, 1 drachm; put them into 1 gallon of rectified spirit of wine, and add 5 quarts of water;i[ 451 ] ECO EAU filter, and then add clarified syrup, 3 quarts, and orange-flower water, 6 ozs. EAU DE LA HONGRIE [Hungary water). Mix 2 lbs. of fresh rosemary flowers and 2 ozs. of lavender flowers with 3 pints of rectified spirit of wine and I pint of water. Distil over 3 pints. This is much used as a cosmetic ; is said to be very effectual in promoting the growth of hair on bald places ; certainly is a good cleanser of the hair ; and, sweetened with sugar, is taken as a cordial. EAU DE LAVANDE {Lavender water). Oil of lavender, 1 oz.; essence of bergamot, \\ drachm ; essence of musk, ^ oz.; rectified spirit, 2 quarts. Mix, and filter through blotting paper. It is very superior. EAU DE LUCE. Put into a bottle rectified spirit of wine, 2 ozs. ; oil of amber, 1 drachm ; salt of tartar and powder of amber, of each 2 drachms; oil of nutmegs, 20 drops. Shake these well together, and let them stand five hours, after which filter the mass and bottle the liqueur. When you would make eau de luce put some of this into the strongest spirits of hartshorn. EAU MEDICINALE DE HUSSON. This is a celebrated remedy for the gout. It is made by putting 2 ozs. of sliced colchicum root into 8 ozs. of sherry wine. After soaking for a week strain through blotting paper. The dose of this wine is from eight to forty drops. See Colchicum. EAU DE MILLEFLEURS {Water of many flowers). Essence of bergamot, \ oz.; lavender water, 1 oz.; essence of jasmine, I oz.; essence of musk, 1 drachm ; orange-flower water, 8 ozs. Mix, and filter through blotting paper. EAU D'OR {Gold water). Take the rinds of two fine lemons and ^ drachm of mace, and put to them 2 quarts of brandy; distil this in a bain-marie alembic, which will afford half the quantity of liqueur; dissolve 1| lb. of sugar in a quart of distilled water and \ lb. of orange-flower water; put this to the liqueur, colour it with a tincture of saffron, strain, and bottle it; take a book of gold leaf, some of which put in a basin, pour a small quantity of the liqueur on it, beat it up with a fork, and put a little parcel of it into each bottle. EAU SANS PAREILLE {Nonpareil water). Musk, 10 grains ; ambergris, 12 grains; oil of cloves, ^ oz.; oil of lavender, ^ oz.; essence of bergamot, J oz.; oil of sassafras, 10 drops ; oil of origanum, 10 drops; rectified spirit, 2 quarts. Mix, and let them remain ten days; then filter through blotting paper. Very fra- grant. EAU SUCREE is sugar put into boiling water. Sugar being very restorative it is a very proper drink for the sick, and easily obtained by the poor if they knew it was good for them, or how to make it, and is drunk constantly by the ladies in France; but it is particularly adapted to the sick from its power of causing sleep, although sugar is not regarded as so- porific. EBONY is a black wood produced by various species of the genus Diospyros. To stain light- coloured woods so as to resemble ebony they sliould be well soaked in a strong infusion of oak-galls, be allowed to dry, and then be washed over with a solution of green vitriol (sulphate of iron). fiCHAUDES. To a quart of flour put a pinch of salt, a little water, 4 ozs. of butter, and five beaten eggs ; mix the whole well together, and work it with the fists ; repeat this four times, then collect it, and put it for twelve hours in a cloth sprinkled with flour ; heat some water in a stewpan three parts full without letting it boil, and cut the paste into pieces, which put on the stewpan lid sprinkled with flour. When the water simmers put in the echaudes, and then stir them a little, but do not let the water boil. When they appear firm take them out and plunge them into cold water, where let them remain three hours; then take them out, drain them three hours in a folded napkin, and bake them on a tin in the oven. ECONOMY in domestic affairs is the manage- ment of a family with propriety and without waste. As attention to economy is at all times necessary the following calculations may, there- fore, be found useful. We premise, however, that in forming these estimates no line is drawn for the poor, and, as those with large fortunes are comparatively few, we have the less occasion to write for them, but the middling classes of society may find our hints useful. Should any calculation be thought too great or too small it should be remembered that our wants are different, some choosing one thing, some another; and never let the maxim in economy be forgotten, that as things grow dearer, if we cannot increase our income, and wish to be at ease, we must diminish our ex- penses. Bread. Each person eats upon an average about f lb. daily, so that nine quartern loaves for seven persons per week are ample. Butter. Three quarters of a pound for each person per week, allowing for melting, will be found ample. Sugar. The same as butter. Tea. Two ounces per head weekly are ample. Here we cannot avoid observing that, if half the expense of tea were laid out in milk, and milk and water drunk instead of tea, it would be more economical, and we believe equally more wholesome. ,ECO ECO [ 452 ] Malt Ltquor. A quart daily for eacli per- son will be found enough. Meat or Fiish. One pound weight daily is a full allowance both for dinner and supper for each person. If any vegetables are eaten the quantity of meat will be less, so that the value of ] lb. of meat will be sufficient for both meat and vegetables. Vegetabt.es. The expense of these will vary according to the season of the year. Potatoes are, however, a standing dish, and from lib. to l^lb. of these will be an ample allowance for each person for dinner. Of vegetables, and, indeed, every other article in domestic economy, it may be observed that they ought to be purchased with ready money, and at such times as they are cheapest. A winter stock of both potatoes and coals ought always to be laid in at that season when they can be bought cheapest and best. Coals. A moderate fire in a proper grate may be kept through the winter six months on the average consumption of two bushels weekly, and in London the cost of coal, therefore, for one fire should not be more than three shillings per week. Luxuries. Wine, spirituous liquors, strong beer, fruit, cream, and entertainments for friends must be regulated by what families have to spare, always remembering that sick- ness, the physician's fees, and other con- tingencies most be provided for, and also, if there be children, that a provision must be made for them. From these estimates we draw the following corollaries of expenses attending a family con- sisting of husband and wife, four children, and a maid-servant:— WEEKLY. £ s. d. Bread for seven persons, 9 quartern loaves, at lOd. each . . . .076 Butter for ditto, 5i lbs., at Is. per lb. . .056 Tea for six persons, 12 ozs., at 7s. per lb. .053 Sugar for ditto, 4J lbs., at Is. per lb. .046 Meat or fish, 7 lbs. daily, at lOd. per lb., 5s. lOd. daily . . . . 2 0 10 (In this calculation vegetables, puddings, &c., are included.) Salt, vinegar, mustard, pepper, &c. . .007 Milk, 1 pint daily . . . .012 Table beer, at 203. per barrel, 11 gallons, at Cfd. per gallon. . . . .062 Strong beer occasionally. . ..026 Washing . . , . . .070 Haberdashery, viz., pins, needles, thread, tape. &o. . . . , .020 Wear and tear, breakage, scouring materials, *o. . . . . , .023 Candles per week, average winter and summer 0 2 6 Weekly expenses . . 7 0 TEAELY. £ d. J? U Lll pu 1111 (.1 b he vtMi oil iJ_ii iJgnpoi wcciL « 226 Q "Pi\rp f*lici 1 fl>'An 1 r^r pnsil'S fll" J-1 -^-fl 13 10 Q ClotliGs for master End mistress • • 30 0 0 26 0 0 Lying-in expenses (once in two years) per year . . . . . . 7 10 0 Pocket expenses, including letters, &c., for all the family. . . , . 11 16 0 Schooling for two children . . 10 0 0 Apothecary . . . . . 5 0 0 Servant's wages, including tea and sugar . 10 0 0 Standing rent and taxes . . . . 60 0 0 0 0 As regards bread, which in families of the middling classes is the principal article of con- sumption, the preceding calculation is founded on the supposition that the price of good house- hold bread in London is from If d. to 2^d. per lb. Barley, rye, or oaten bread is also eaten in such families, and many of them bake their own bread, which is a considerable saving, so that, should this calculation be too high for the country, it is an error on the right side. The other articles of food are as correct and as generally applicable as it is possible for them to be. Should, however, any of the items here enumerated not prove sufficient, as the income will not afford more, recourse must be had to potatoes, rice, oatmeal, and other wholesome and nutritive articles of food for children, which will save bread, and should be constantly given to them, as proper and economical substitutes for this and other expensive articles of diet. It is better to buy large loaves than small ones, and bread two or three days old is not only more wholesome than that eaten at one, but is more economical, and will go nearly one- fourth as far again. The quantity of butchers meat in the above estimate is rather too low we apprehend, at least for the present state of the markets, although certain and far from indifferent pieces (not prime) may be bought at that price. Much, however, may be saved by the mode of cooking. Meat roasted, baked, or broiled loses fully one-third of its nutritive qualities; if boiled fast it loses nearly as much, but stewed gently it loses least, and what it does lose the liquor acquires; and this, thickened with a little meal, ground rice, Scotch barley, or peas and vegetables, affords a most whole- some food, and the family gets the nourishment of the whole meat at the least expense. Coals vary in their prices according to local situation, circumstances, &c. ; but where coals are dear, coke, wood, turf, and peat are reasonable, and for six months in the year but little is required for coal or candles, for which latter article in families of this description oil is frequently used. The expense of each child isEDU [ 453 ] EDU rated at Is. 9d. per vreek, and. though a child in arms will not cost so much, the extra nourish- ment the mother requires in giving suck will be fully equivalent to it. There are other considerations which may conspire to ease the burden and make ends meet, of which every industrious couple will know from necessity how to avail themselves. EDUCATION. We shall confine our notes to the period that a child is in the nursery— that of earliest childhood. After that period education must be confided to masters, and no rules can be established of general applica- bility. The selection of tutors must be deter- mined by too many circumstances to admit of specific advice in these pages. " Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it," says Solomon; and, although this sublime moral advice does not amount to an axiom, the cor- rectness of the maxim is so far-established that, should its early inculcation be neglected or deferred, the bias of the future mind is deterio- rated in a tenfold ratio. On parents, therefore, it depends whether their children shall prove a blessing or a curse—whether they shall comfort their declining years, or bring down their grey hairs with sorrow to the grave. On the basis of religion must their happiness be founded, and the existence of a Supreme and Invisible Being the first knowledge that is imprinted on their weak and tender minds. When children are permitted by nature to notice the beautiful varieties of the creation, teach them to believe that to the hand of an all-merciful and bene- ficent Creator we owe their formation, that they are sent to us as the reward and encourage- ment of virtue, and that to act in opposition to the divine will would be the surest means to deprive us of every benefit we enjoy. Instead of terrifying their weak imaginations by the representation of a thousand frightful monsters to them, such as old Boby, the chininey-sueep, or any other of the like smutty tribe, to whom they are to be consigned when they commit a fault, or punishing them in any other manner, or, on the contrary, flattering their little minds with delusive hopes to bribe them to their duty, teach and encourage them to be good for virtue's sake ; tell them that an all-seeing Eye is witness to their most private faults, and that to Heaven they must look for their rewai'd or punishment; and, although the system of bribery is un- questionably a bad thing either in the senate or the family circle, children should by no means be discouraged so far as to suffer their little merits to pass unnoticed and disregarded. They should be taught, from precept and example, to know that a good action is always sure to meet with a suitable acknowledgment, if not at all times with a reward; whilst at the same time, to guard them against the insinuating influence of vanity, it should be equally inculcated that, in the execution of whatever they may have so ably and so obediently accomplished, they have acted in no other manner than as dutiful and becoming children. It is the opinion of many that children of three or four years of age are too young to attend public worship. We, however, are of a different opinion save one exception, namely, as regards the season of the year, which we shall consequently explain. It is certainly true that a child at the age of three years, or even four, cannot be imagined to understand the full ex- planation of prayer and thanksgiving; never- theless, though not capable of accompanying a congregation in those solemn acts of devotion, they may doubtless be inspired with a reverent awe of their divine Creator, and thus, by a constant attendance at the house of God, be brought to an early ^)ractice of piety and religion. If there be anything objectionable in taking young children to places of worship it is during the winter season, where, from sitting in a,a almost empty pew, the cold is so severe as to diminish the heat of the body below the n9.tural standard ; the force of the circulation is not able to resist its influence; and, as young children have to encounter a variety of changes, inci- dental and accidental, which, for want of proper attention to their little comforts, might be both accelerated and aggravated by exposure to cold and moisture—on the other hand, crowded congregations are frequently attended with the pernicious effects resulting from sudden transi- tions, which the tender frame is equally as ill adapted to encounter—then only we admit that young children are better at home within the range of a move uniform degree of tempera- ture. No one can doubt that children are born with various dispositions, or the germs of such dispositions; and it is equally true that by proper and timely management these dis- positions may be so changed and meliorated by the attention of a parent, or those to whom they are intrusted, that not only their little blemishes may be smoothed away, but even those things which more offensively distinguish the child may, by proper discipline, become the charac- teristic ornaments of the man. " In respect to the desires of children," observes Dr, Parr, " it is hardly possible to lay down any general rule; but the best method of inuring them to dis- appointment is, perhaps, rather to call off their thoughts to some new gratifications than to drive them forcibly from any favourite pursuit. Their inclinations are keen, but fickle, and[ 454 ] EEL EDU therefore he gives no mean proof of his skill in the management of the human miud who makes one weakness the instrument of counteracting another." The temper of a child in the early days of its infancy, and beyond a certain period, is not easily rectified, should it unfortunately have taken a wrong bent. If every little sally of passion and impatience were instantly and properly controlled—if such things as are ad- missible were regularly permitted, and those that are improper as regularly and steadily withheld, the wily little creature would soon learn to distinguish between what is allowed and what is prohibited; but a melancholy reverse will be found if, on the other hand, no consistency regulates his management—if at one time the slightest indulgence is refused, and at another the most extravagant and even injurious cravings are satisfied, just as the whim of the parent may lead him to gratify his ill-humour by thwarting another, or to amuse his moments of ennui by playing with his child as with a monkey, and exciting it to those acts of mischief and audacity for which, in the next moment, it may suffer a severe correction. The effects of such an insensible and capricious line of conduct, and the serious consequences, must strike home to the bosom of every parent alive to his duty as at once uncharitable and inconsistent. Con- tinually undergoing either disappointment or punishment, or engaged in extorting gratifica- tions which he often triumphs at having gained by an artful display of passion, his time passes on, until at length the poor child frequently manifests a degree of ill-humour sufficient to render him the little detested tyrant of his playmates and inferiors. No one will here presume, we believe, to assert that such a mode of tampering with the education of children— an education by which it is here intended to be understood copibining the whole concourse of circumstances which form the human character- is not erroneous in the extreme; yet how fre- quently do we witness its effects in our inter- course with human life ! It may be asked. If, when children do wrong, are they to be cor- rected ? Most undoubtedly they are to be cor- rected ; that is, they are to be directed right, and prevented from doing wrong, and special care talten that this correction be correct, for these young reasoners are as expert as ourselves in detecting fallacies; and as in criminal so ought it to be in moral law-—it is better that ten naughty boys should ffo unpunished than that an innocent one should be whipped for a fault of which he is not the author. In punishing children for their faults or vices the greatest care is necessary that capri- ciousness forms no part of this moral process, and punishment for doing wrong will effect more harm than good in proportion to the fre- quency with which it is inflicted; for punishment, mental or corporeal, will be invariably and as much as possible avoided, and the dread of it will make them both liars and hypocrites. Above all things, children should be taught candour, and the undisguised declaration of their feelings; but whilst they are operated upon by the appre- hension of pain such candour and declaration of their feelings will be prevented: their chief occu- pation, under such circumstances, will be the practice of deceit and duplicity, in order to conceal the errors they have committed. No child will be candid without kindness, and it will be difficult to persuade any child that in putting him to bodily or mental torture you have his happiness at heart. EEL BROTH. Boil some small eels in a little water, with some parsley, an onion, some peppercorns, and salt according to taste; let them boil for two hours. EEL, COLLARED. Take an eel, and cut it open ; take out the bones, and cut off the head and tail; lay the eel flat, and shred sage as finely as possible ; mix with black pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and salt; lay it all over the eel; roll it up hard in a cloth; tie it up tightly at each end; then set over the fire some water, with pepper and salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades of mace, and a bay leaf or two ; boil these with the bones, head, and tail well; put in the eel, and boil it till quite tender; take it out and boil the liquor, and when it is cold put it to the eel; do not take off the cloth till you use it. EEL, IRISH (Pickle for). Equal parts of vinegar, white wine, and water; boil the eel with mace, cloves, ginger, pepper, salt, and horseradish; take out the horseradish, and pour the liquor over the cooked eel. EEL IN JELLY. Stew a calf s foot in a quart of water, and reduce it to half; strain the sauce through a cloth, squeeze it strongly, and leave it to settle. Skin an eel, cut it into pieces, and stew them in a court bouillon of water, salt, pepper, roots of parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, cloves, the peel of a lemon, and three or four shallots. When the fish is done leave it to cool in the bouillon. A few hours before serving take the prepared calf's-foot jelly, and add to it a glass of strong white vinegar and the juice of two lemons; warm the whole and strain it through a bag, that the jelly may be transparent. Pour it warm over the eel in a long dish, placing the pieces close to each other. Garnish with slices of lemon vandyked, olives, gherkins, cherries in vinegar, &c. EEL, MARINATED (Fried). Skin an eel, cut it into pieces, and warm them for a few.EEL EEL [ 455 ] minutes in a stewpan -with a piece of butter; pour the whole into a deep dish, and add salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, fine herbs, mush- rooms, a shallot, chives (the whole chopped finely), and a spoonful of oil; when it has marinated two or three hours spread it with bread crumbs, and broil the fish. Serve with sauce piquante or anchovy sauce. EEL PIE. Skin and clean the eels; cut thera in pieces about two inches in length; sprinkle them with chopped parsley and shallots, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon juice for five minutes ; then put a little light force- meat at the bottom of a deep dish ; put the eels over it; cover with puff paste ; bake it, and put into it either bechamel or cullis. EEL A LA POULETTE. Having skinned and cut the eel in pieces, boil for five minutes in water, with two spoonsful of vinegar, but you must not put in your fish till the water boils ; then let it drain. Melt a piece of butter rolled in a spoonful of flour without letting it brown; pour in a glass of boiling water and as much white wine ; add salt, pepper, a bunch of mixed herbs, some mushrooms, and a dash of vinegar ; put in the eel to stew half an hour, thicken the same with the yolks of eggs, and serve. This ragout is suitable also for filling a vol au- vent. EELPOUT. Like tench this requires to be cleansed of its muddy taste. It is eaten fried, stewed, or a la poulelte; it does not require much cooking. EEL, EOASTED. Cut a large eel into pieces, having skinned and trimmed it, and marinate it about two hours with oil and lemon juice, pepper and salt, two cloves, two or three whole shallots, thyme, and laurel; then tie each bit to a skewer, and wrap it up in paper well buttered ; squeeze the herbs of the marinade, and baste it with the liquor, adding to it a little melted butter; serve with whatever sauce you please. EEL, SALTED : To Dfess. Soak an eel in milk and water, and put it on the fire in fresh water ; let it only come near the simmer, other- wise it will be spoiled; skim well, take it off the fire, cover it up. with a cloth for five minutes in the water, and drain. Serve as a salad or any other way. EEL SAUCE. Cut the eel into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two onions, and various roots; soak till it catches a little, then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little cullis, three or four tarragon leaves, ciboule, a clove of garlic, a little spice, and a bay leaf; simmer for an hour, skim it very well, and sift it in a sieve for use. EEL AU SOLEIL. Skin, gut, and cut an eel into pieces ; melt some butter in a stewpan, and put in the eel, with half a glass of white wine and seasoning. When done add two spoonsful of marinade sauce, and let it cool; then cover the eel with bread crumbs, and fry just before serving. The marinade is made of carrots, turnips, onions in slices, two spoonsful of flour, pepper, salt, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, vinegar, and two glasses of bouillon. EEL SOUP. To every pound of eels put a quart of water, a crust of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, ftnd a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover them closely, and let them boil till half the liquor is wasted and the fish is quite broken ; then strain it off, toast some bread, cut it into dice, lay them in a dish, and pour the soup upon them. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smoothly in it, greatly improves it. EEL, SPITCHCOCKED. Let your eel be large, sj^lit it down the back, and joint the bone, but leave on the skin; cut it into three or four pieces, broil them on a gentle fire, and baste them with butter, vinegar, and salt. When they are broiled serve them with butter and juice of lemon. EEL A LA TARTARE. Choose a fine river eel with a white belly, for those bred in ponds taste muddy ; skin it from the head to the tail, gut it, and clip it with scissoi's ; cut off the head and end of the tail, and give it a round form by thrusting the tail into the belly ; line a saucepan with onions, carrots, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, two cloves, some pepper, and salt; put iu the eel, add half bouillon and half white wine, cover it with buttered paper, and stew it over a gentle fire three quarters of an hour; then take out the fish with care, and place it on a dish ; make a white roux, and moisten it with the liquor of the eel. When this sauce is I'educed thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, strain it over the fish and round it, and leave it thus to cool; then cover the eel with bread crumbs, next the beaten egg, and the second time with bread crumbs ; place it in a buttered dish, pour over some melted butter, set it in a Dutch oven or on a gridiron to give it a fine colour, and serve it with Tartar sauce, or the eel may be served cut up into slices. EELS : To Choose. These are known to be new or stale by the colour of their gills, their easiness or hardness to open, the hanging or keeping up their fins, the standing out or sinking of their eyes, &c., and by smelling their gills. EELS : To Preserve. According to the number of j'our eels boil a pint of wine or more, with the proportion of \ lb. of sugar and \ lb. of salt for a bottle of wine; let it cool, andEEL EEL [ 456 ] tlien trim tlie eels as for pi-esent use; fry them in oil and a few bay leaves in three parts ; ■when they are nearly cold put them in an earthen pnt, pour the wine upon them, and the oil is used for frying with the bay leaves ; when they are quite cold cover the pot with leather or strong paper, and tie it fast. They will keep in a cool place for a great length of time. EELS, BAKED. Skin and clean some eels ; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in lengths according to the depth of the pan ; put them in, letting them stand upright; the pan should be filled. Put in a little water, some salt, pepper, shallots cut small, some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut small; set them in the oven to bake. When they are done take the liquor that comes from them, put it into a sauce- pan, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine. EELS, BOILED. The smallest are best for boiling ; they should be boiled in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which must be served up with them and the liquor. Serve with chopped parsley and butter for sauce. EELS, BROILED. Skin and cleanse your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, and strew over them bread crumbs, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt. Baste them well with butter, and put them in a dripping-pan. Roast and hroil them, and serve them up with parsley and butter. EELS, BROILED (1 lTtalienne). If for an entree choose two moderate - sized eels, take off the skin, wash, bone, and dry them thoroughly; toss them in an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, and fry them of a good brown colour. Serve with a good Italian sauce under them. EELS, CONGER. See Conger Eel. EELS, ENTREE OF. Take some good- sized eels, bone them, and cut them into pieces about a finger in length; pass them over a slow fire in a small quantity of sweet herbs, shallots, pepper, salt, butter, and lemon juice. When they are three parts done put all on a dish; dip each piece in the liquor, bread crumb them, and boil them over a clear fire. Serve with anchovy sauce. EELS, FORCEMEAT OF. Take two fine eels, boil them till they are nearly done enough, and then put them into cold water; broil a perch, and when it is nearly done lay it to cool; take the meat from the bones of both fish, mince it, and add to it the liver of a cod, minced also; then season it with pepper and salt, sweet herbs picked from the stalks, some small onions minced, some scraped bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread crumbs, and a piece of butter; put the whole inJ:o a naortar, and beat it to a paste. It is used for fish pies, and adds a fine relish to all made dishes of fish. It may also be rolled up into balls, and fried or stewed. EELS, FRICASSEED. Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end ; cut each of them into four or five pieces, and lay them for half an hour to crimp in spring water; dry them in a cloth, and put them in a pan, with a piece of fresh butter, a green onion or two, and a little chopped parsley. Set the pan on the fire, and shake it about for a few minutes ; then put in about a pint of white wine and the same quantity of stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace. Stew together about half an hour ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs beaten very smooth, a little grated nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Stir the whole well together, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon; give the whole a good shake ; pour it into the dish, and serve it very hot. Garnish your dish with lemon. EELS, FRIED. If your eels are small they should be curled round, dipped into egg, and then nicely fried. If of a good size cut them into pieces; season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; flour them, and fry them in butter. EELS EN MATELOTE. Skin and wash some eels; cut them into three or four pieces; lay them between pieces of fat bacon, and con- somme enough to cover them, to which add a little carrot, onions, parsley, peppercorns, salt, bay leaf, and one clove of garlic; stew them till well done, and let them stand in their liquor till nearly cold; then take them out, trim them, lay them on the dish, to which add a few rolls of very good veal forcemeat blanched, and pour over the whole a good bechamel sauce, and a liaison gently mixed in. EELS, PICKLED. Take some eels, skin them, slit them down the belly, take out the bones, and rub them all over with salt; let them lie three days, and turn them every day; then take them out of the brine, wash them in water, and wipe them dry with a cloth; season them with nutmeg, cloves, mace, and a bay leaf; roll them in a collar, tie them tightly in a cloth, and boil them in an equal quantity of white wine and vinegar. When they are tender take them out of the liquor, and set them to cool; when they are cold put them into the same liquor again; if there is not liquor enough boil some more vinegar, white wine, and spices ; set them upon their ends while cooling, and they will keep their shape much better. EELS, POTTED. Rip open the eels, bone, and put them into pieces ; wash and well dry them, season them highly with pepper, salt, and nutri^eg ; put them into a pot; lay on pieces of[ 457 ] EGG EEL butter; bake them; pour off all tlie gravy, pressing them hard, that none may remaiu, and pour on clarified butter. EELS IN SEASON. Eels are in seasoa all the year, excepting the four warmer months. The silver eel of the Thames is reckoned the best. EELS, STEWED (I). Take 2 lbs. of fine silver eels (the best are those that are rather more than half-a-crown piece in circum- ference), quite fresh, full of life, and " brisk as an eel ;" wash them in several different waters, and divide them into pieces about four inches long. Some cooks dredge them with a little flour, wipe them dry, then egg and crumb them, fry them with dripping till they are brown, and lay them to dry on a hair sieve. Have ready a quart of good beef gravy: it must be cold when you put the eels into it. Set them on a slow fire to simmer very gently for about a quarter of an hour, according to the size of the eels; watch that they are not done too much, take them carefully out of the stewpan with a fish slice, so as not to tear their coats, and lay them on a dish about two inches deep. EELS, STEWED (2). Cut your eels into pieces, pepper and salt them, put them into a small stewpan, with some good stock, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bit of lemon- peel, and a glass of Madeira; stew them gently. When the eels are done enough, which will be in half an hour, or perhaps rather longer, take theu out, and the onion and lemon-peel; mix some flour with a little cream, and boil this in the sauce ; add more wine if there is not sufficient, and Cayenne ; squeeze in some lemon juice, and put in the ells. EFFERVESCING DRAUGHT. Sesqui- carbonate of soda, 30 grains ; water, 1-^ fluid oz.; syrup of orange-peel, 2 fluid drachms; tincture of calumba, ^ fluid drachm; tartaric acid, 25 grains. Add the acid last, and drink whilst the mixture is effervescing. It is tonic, allays sick- ness, removes the sensation of nausea, and cools the stomach when feverish. EGG BALLS WITH ONIONS, Make some balls of eggs, and boil them three minutes ; chop the whites a little, and fry them with some onion that has been partly boiled. When of a nice brown add a little pepper, salt, and hot water, or herb broth; let it boil about a minute, poqr it on toasted sippets, and lay the balls round it. EGG FLIP. Put a quart of ale in a tinned saucepan on the fire to boil. In the meantime beat up the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, adding four table spoonsful of brown sugar and a little nutmeg; pour on the ale by degrees, beating it up so as to prevent the mixture from curdling ; then pour it backwards and forwards repeatedly from vessel to vessel, raising the hand to as great a height as possible, which process produces the smoothness and frothing essential to the good quality of the flip. This is excellent for a cold, and fi-om its fleecy appearance is sometimes designated ■' a yard of flannel." EGG FRITTERS. Pound a dozen hard- boiled eggs with a little cream and ^ lb. of beef marrow; then pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter almonds, a little sugar, and lemon- peel ; mix these with the pounded eggs, and form into fritters ; dip them into a batter made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon-peel; fry them in very hot lard, sprinkle sugar over, and serve. EGG AND HAM OMELET (in Gravy). Mince or rasp cooked ham, season it with finely minced parsley, pepper, salt, and a little cream; whip the eggs, mix and dress as an omelet, and serve it with thickened gravj'. EGG AND HAM PATTIES. From the most solid part of a stale quartern loaf cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness, have in readiness a round tin cutter of two inches in diameter, and cut out four or five pieces ; then take a cutter two sizes smaller, and press it nearly tlu'ough the larger pieces; then with a knife remove the bread from the circle, have ready a large stewpan full of boiling lard, fry them of a Yijht brown colour, drain them dry with a clean cloth, and put them aside till wanted ; then take i lb. of lean ham, mince it small, add to it a gill of good brown sauce, stir it over the fire a few minutes, and add a small quantity of Cayenne pepper and lemon juice; fill the shapes with the mixture, and lay a poached egg upon each. EGG, LARGE. If this egg is to be plain whip the yolk, strain, fill the small mould, and boil it fourteen minutes ; throw the mould into cold water, and let it cool; whip the whites only to mix them, that tliey may strain; open the mould, put in a little of the white, and lay in the yolk ; shut it fast, put in the remainder of the white with a funnel, and peg it; put it into boiling water, and keep turning it con- stantly for five or six minutes, to prevent the yolk from falling to one side of the mould, which, from the liquid state of the white from beating, it is apt to do ; leave it till the mould can be handled, but do not let it cool in it as it may discolour it; put it into cold water, and serve over it a mushroom, oyster, clear juice, or piquant sauce. EGG MARMALADE. Clarify 1 lb. of sugar, keeping it rather thick. When cool add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which should be per- fectly free frora the whites, and well stirred, but not beaten; set it on the ure, stirring continually until it boils, and then continue to[ 458 ] EGG EGG sllr till sufficieutly thick. If any scum should arise it need not be taken off, as the boiling and stirring will effectually remove it. Orange- flower water may be added if approved. EGG MINCE PIES. Boil six eggs until they are hard, shred them small, and shred double the quantity of suet; then add 1 lb. of currants picked and washed (if your eggs are large you must use more currants), the peel of one lemon shred very finely, and the juice, six- spoonsful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. EGG PANADA. Boil a handful of good raisins in a quart of water; toast a slice of bread, and cut it up; beat two eggs with a spoonful of sugar, and mix with the bread. When the raisins are done pour them on the toast and eggs, stirring all the time; season to your taste with wine, nutmeg, and butter. EGG PANE. Three eggs to a quart of meal (no wheat flour, and to be made also with milk, as water would make it heavy), and a spoonful of butter, all well beaten together, and made up of a consistence tliicker than cakes—too thick to pour out, but just thick enough to require to be taken up with a spoon. Tliis may be baked like cakes immediately after being mixed. It must be baked in a tin pan, which should be placed in a Dutch oven, not too hot at first, but the fire under it to be increased. The object is to have it to begin to bake at the bottom, when it will rise in the process of baking, become brown on the top, and, when put on the table and cut, resemble what we call pound cake. " Salt, of course, add as usual to your taste in both cases. EGG PAP. Set a quart of water on a clear fire, make two spoonsful of wheat flour into a batter with the yolks of two or three new-laid eggs well beaten, and a little cold water. When the water is about boiling put in the batter, and keep it stirring till it is ready to boil; then take it off", put in a little salt, poxir the whole into a basin, and let it cool gradually. When eggs are not at hand a piece of butter may be substitiited, and stirred in gently. EGG PIE. Boil a dozen eggs hard, and mince the yolks very finely with their weight in beef suet; put to them gome salt, beaten spice, lemon-peel, rose water, sugar, and ^ lb. of cur- rants. You may also add an apple shred small. Mix all these together, fill j'our dish, and bake it. Serve it to table with a little wine. EGG PLANT (1). The pui-ple-fruited is considered the nicest. Pull the fruit from the plant, parboil it, and cut it in slices about an inch thick ; dip them in a batter, or in a^ pgg well beaten, and then in a pounded crccker, seasoned with a little salt and pepper. Fry them of a nice brown colour. EGG PLANT (Q). Split the fruit of the egg plant in half, parboil it until soft enough to sci'ape out the inside, leaving the shell whole ; take an onion cut up, pepper, salt, parsley, and one egg; sprinkle in a little flour, stew the whole together with a lump of butter in a sauce- pan until thoroughly cooked; then put it in the shells, sprinkle with crumbs of bread, and bake until brown. EGG ROLLS. Boil a quart of new milk with J lb. of butter, the same of lard, and a little salt; beat up two eggs, and pour the boiling milk on them, stirring all the time. When neai'ly cold add a tea-cupful of yeast, and as much wheat flour as will make it into a thick batter. When quite light knead it up as bread, and let it lighten before moulding out; grease the pans, and bake them with a moderate heat. A little sugar and water rubbed on just before baking rolls makes them glossy. EGG SANDWICHES. Take fresh-laid eggs, boil them hard, and put them in cold water till quite cold ; then peel them, and, after taking a little of the white off each end, cut them in slices, and lay them between bread and butter, with a little salt and mustard if approved. EGG SAUCE. Boil three eggs hard, cut them in small squares, and mix them in good butter sauce ; make it very hot, and squeeze iu some lemon juice before you serve it. EGG SNOW AND CUSTARD. Beat the whites of twelve eggs very well with 2 ozs. of sugar and a little orange-flower water, or a few drops of any essence; then two pints of milk with 2 oza. of sugar upon the fire. When it boils lay the frothed white upon the milk, and poach it. When it is done take out a little of the milk, and season what is upon the fire with cinnamon, rose water, or any other seasoning; mix in the yolks as for a custard, stir till it tliickens, dish it, and dress the snow over it. The snow may be made of any colour, or with pulped fruit. EGG SOUP. Beat the yolks of two eggs in your dish, with a piece of butter as large as a hen's egg; take a tea-kettle of boiling water in one hand, and a spoon in the other, and pour in about a quart by degrees ; then keep stirring it all the time till the eggs are well mixed and the butter melted; pour it into a saucepan, and keep stirring it all the time till it begins to simmer; take it off the fire, and pour it between two vessels, out of one into the other, till it is quite smooth and has a great froth; set it on the fire again, keep stirring till it is quite hot, pour it into a soup dish, and send it to table hot. EGG TART. Chop up some sweet herbs.[ 459 ] EGG EGG and mix tliem with a good Ijit of butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; put it into the bottom of your paste, with some good butter, what quantity of hard eggs you choose cut into quarters, and some raw ones beaten up as for an omelet; finish the pie as usual. You may add caper sauce when ready, or a cream sauce. EGG TOAST. Take a glass of thick cream, some sugar, two or three macaroons pounded, a few almonds, and a little grated lemon; give them a boil; then add the yolks of eight and the whites of three eggs ; beat the whole up Dver a slow fire, and lay on very thin slices of ried bread ; sprinkle sugar over, and serve. EGG WIKE, Beat up an egg, mix with it a spoonful of coJd water, and set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by degrees till the whole is in, stir- ring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, set it over a g'-ntle fire, and stir it one way for a minute, not longer; for if it boil or the egg is stale it will curdle. Serve with toast. EGGS : To Boil. Have the water boiling, and look at your watch as you put the eggs in. Two minutes and a half will cook them to please some persons. If you want them very soft two minutes will be sufficient, or, if less soft, thr^e minutes. If you wish them hard, as for lettuce, let them boil ten minutes. Spoons that have been used in eating eggs should be put into water immediately, as the egg tarnishes them. EGGS: To Boil for a Sal.4d. Boil two eggs for twelve minutes, and then put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes. The yolks must be quite hard and cold, otherwise they will not properly incorporate with the other ingredients. Rub them through a sieve with ^ wooden spoon, and mix them with a table- epoonful of water or fin^e double cream ; then add two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter ; when these are well mixed together by degrees add a tea-spoonful of salt or powdered lump sugar, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. When these are smoothly united add very gradually three tea-spoonsful of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till thoroughly incor- porated, cut up the whites of the eggs, and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bot om of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad ti 1 it is to be eaten. EGGS : To Choose, in choosing eggs hold them to the light; if they are clear they are fresh; if they are thick they are stale; if they have a black spot attached to the sheL' they are worthless. Eggs sl^ould be new, or not mor,e than twenty-four hours old, when they are stored, else their flavour cannot be relied on. The safest mode of clioosing thera is by holdr ing then? to the light of a candle. Unless an egg is perfectly fresh it is unfit for any purpose. You may try the freshness of eggs by putting them in a pan of cold water. Those that sink the soonest are the freshest. Eggs may be preserved a short time by putting them in a jar of salt and lime water, with the small ends downwards. The salt should not after- wards be used. They may be preserved several months by greasing them all over with melted mutton suet, and wedging them close together in a box of bran, the small ends always down- wards. EGGS: To Keep. Pour a full gallon of boiling water on two quarts of quicklime and J lb. of salt. When cold mix into it 1 oz. of cream of tartar, and the day following put in the eggs. After the lime has been stirred well into the boiling water a large part of it will settle at the bottom of the vessel, on which the eggs will remain. Keep them covered with the liquor,_ and they will keep two years. EGGS WITH ANCHOVIES. Take two or three French rolls, cut them into slices (not too thin), and toast and butter them ; over them cut shreds of anchovies, put them on a dish, and before you serve them lay a poached egg on each toast. EGGS AND ANCHOVIES (in Savory Jelly). Take ten good anchovies, clean them, cut them into shreds, and lay them on a plate; poach five eggs in vinegar and water, and as you poach them put them in cold water ; then take a plain mould, and into the bottom of the mould put a little savory jelly. As soon as it is set take the anchovies, and neatly cross them on the jelly ; trim your eggs very nicely and with care, lay them on the anchovies, and gently pour on a little jelly nearly cold. When the eggs and anchovies are well set fill up the mould, keep it in ice till it is wanted, and then turn it oyt like any other jelly. EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS. Cut some asparagus that has been previously boiled the same size as peas, break six eggs into a basin, beat them up, put them, with a little pepper, salt, and the asparagus, into a stewpan, with 2 ozs. of butter, and keep stirring all the time it is on the fire. When it becomes thick it is done ; then put a toast on the dish, and pour the eggs and asparagus on the toast. This should be served up immediately when done, for if permitted to stand it will not be good. EGGS FOR BALLS. Boil six eggs, take the yolks, pound them, add a little flour and salt, and the yolks of two raw eggs; mix all well together, and roll into balls. They must be boiled before they are added to any made dish or soup.[ 460 ] EGG EGG EGGS, BEATEN. Take fifteen eggs, leave out the whites of five, strain them into a sauce- pan, and add to them ^ lb. of butter (which should he cut into small pieces), n spoonful of veloute, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; set these on the fire, and stir them with a stick till they are done ; then place them on your dish, and lay fried bread round them. EGGS, BEATEN (in the shell). Cut as many pieces of bread as you have eggs, take off the crusts, and shape them round ; make a hole in the middle of each large enough to contain an egg laid lengthwise in it; then take your eggs, break one end carefully, and take out the con- tents, which put into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, two spoonsful of cream, shred parsley and scallions, salt, and pepper, and keep stirring over the fire until properly done ; then, having washed and drained the shells, fill them with cooked eggs, lay them on the bread, and serve. EGGS WITH BEET. Pound a piece of red beet with some beaten cinnamon, sugar, macaroons, and a slice of lemon ; then take half a dozen eggs, leave out the whites, a little salt, and milk; mix the whole well together, and strain it through a sieve; put it into a dish, set it over the fire, and brown with a red-hot shovel. EGGS, BIRDS'. These are always most intei-esting if they can be preserved in the nest, and on the tree, or among the grass, where the nest is formed. However, we have here only to give directions for the preservation of the eggs. In selecting eggs for your cabinet always choose those which are newly laid. Make a medium-sized bole at the sharp end with a pointed instrument. Having made the hole at the sharp end, make one at the blunt, and let this last hole be as small as possible. This done, apply your mouth to the blunt end, and blow the contents through the sharp end. If the yolk will not come freely run a pin or wire up into the egg, and stir the yolk well about. Now get a cupful of water, and, immersing the sharp end of the shell into it, apply your mouth to the blunt end, and suck up some of the water into the empty shell; then put your finger and thumb upon the two holes, shake the water well within, and after this blow it out. The water will clear your egg of any remains of yolk or of white which may stay in after blowing. If one suck up of water will not suSice make a second or third. An egg immediately after it is produced is very clear and fine; but by staying in the nest, and coming in coiitact with the feet of the bird, it soon assumes a dirty appearance. To remedy this wash it well in soap and water, and use a nail-brush to get the dirt off. Your egg-shell is now as it ought to be, and nothing remains to be done but to prevent the thin white membrane (which is still inside) from corrupting. Take a wine-glass, and fill it with the solution of corrosive sublimate of alcohol; then immerse the sharp end of the egg-shell into it, keeping your finger and thumb, as you hold it, just clear of the solution ; apply your mouth to the little hole at the blunt end, and suck up some of the solution into the shell. You need not be fearful of getting the liquor into your mouth, for, as soon as it rises in the shell, the cold will strike your finger and thumb, and then you should cease sucking. Shake the shell just as you did when the water was in it, and then blow the solution back into the glass. Your egg-shell is now beyond the reach of corruption ; the mem- brane for ever retains its pristine whiteness, and no insect for the time to come will ever venture to prey upon it. If you wish your egg to appear extremely brilliant give it a coat of mastic varnish, put on very sparingly with a camel-hair pencil. Green or blue eggs must be done with gum arabic: the mastic varnish is apt to injure the colour. EGGS AND BREAD. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the white of one, mix as much bread crumbs as will make it into a stiff paste, adding a little salt; put it in a small oval dish buttered, and set it in the oven about a quarter of an hour ; melt some butter in a frying-pan, and turn the substance of the dish into it, having ready the whites of the five eggs and the yolk of one beaten to pour over it, keeping it as much as possible to one side of the pan ; sprinkle it over with bread crumbs, and svhen browned turn and brown it on the other side; serve it up with brown gravy in the dish, and onion sauce in a boat. EGGS WITH BREAD. ' Take a penny loaf, soak it in a quart of hot milk two hours, or till the bread is soft; then strain it through a coarse sieve, put to it two spoonsful of orange- flower water or rose water; sweeten it, and grate in a little nutmeg; take a little dish, butter the bottom of it, break in as many eggs as will cover the bottom of the dish, poiir in the bread and milk, set it in a tin oven before the fire, and half an hour will bake it. It will do on a chafing dish of coals. Cover it closely before the fire, or bake it in a slow oven. EGGS AND BROCCOLI. Boil your broccoli till tender, saving a large bunch for the middle, and six or eight little thick sprigs to stick round; take a toast half an inch thick, as big as you would have it for your dish or butter plate, and ' toast it brown; butter some eggs thus :—Take six eggs, more or less as you have occasion, beat them well, and put them into a saucepan, with a good piece of butter and a little salt; keep beating them with a spoon till they are thick[ 461 ] EGG EGG enough ; tlien potir them on the toast, set the largest bunch of broccoli in the middle, with the other little pieces round about, and garnish the dish with little sprigs of broccoli. This is a pretty side dish or a corner plate. EGGS, BUTTERED. Beat together the yolks of four or five eggs, and put ^ lb. of butter into a basin; then put that in boiling water, and keep stirring it till it is melted ; then put the melted butter and eggs into a saucepan, keep a basin in your hand, and hold the sauce- pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way ; as it begins to warm pour it into a basin, then back again, and hold it over the fire, keeping it constantly stirring in the saucepan, and pouring it into the basin more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread or in a basin to eat with salt fish or red herrinsrs. EGGS IN CAUL. Cut bits of caul large enough to wrap a poached egg in with a little ready-prepared farce of any kind, minced meat, stewed greens, or onions fried in butter ; roll them up, dip them in yolks of eggs, and bake in the oven about a quarter of an hour in a baking dish. Serve with any sauce you please. EGGS AND CHEESE (in cups). Beat up two spoonsful of rich cream with four yolks of eggs, a heaped spoonful of rasped Parmesan or Dutch cheese, about the size of a walnut of butter, with mace, pepper, and salt. Mix well, fill the cups half full, and put them into the oven. They will take little time. EGGS WITH CREAM. Take a dozen eggs boiled hard, cut them in two, take out the yolks, and rub them through a hair sieve; chop the whites very finely, and make a sauce with cream. When your sauce is vrell done add a lump of butter, and then the chopped whites ; season it well, pour it into your dish, and cover the whole with the yolks ; baste with a little butter, and brown with a red-hot shovel. EGGS WITH CUCUMBERS. Peel some cucumbers, cut them in halves, take out the seeds, slice them and some onions, and steep them in salt and vinegar an hour; drain them in a cloth, and fry them. When a little brown flour them, put in a little water, and let them stew. The sauce must not be very thin. If not tart enough add a little lemon juice, with a little pepper and salt, and lay poached or fried eggs on the cucumbers. EGGS, CUPPED. Put a spoonful of very nice highly-seasoned brown gravy into each cup, and set the cups in a saucepan of boiling water. When the gravy heats drop a fresh egg into each cup, take off the saucepan, and cover it closely till the eggs are nicely and tenderly cooked; dredge them with very fine mace, nut- meg, or salt; serve them in a hot-water plate covered with a napkin, or poach them in butter, vinegar, and spices in cups. EGGS A LA DUCHESSE. Boil a pint and a half of cream with some sugar, orange flowers, crisped almonds, preserved lemon-peel, and almond cakes, all shred finely ; have ready eight eggs, beat up the whites, and put the yolks apart; poach two or three spoonsful at once of the whites in the cream, to appear like eggs poached without the yolks ; let them drain, and dish them one upon the other till they have formed eight upon the dish for table ; put some cream over the fire to reduce to the consistence of sauce, and when you are ready to serve it up put in the eight yolks; thicken over the fire, and pour the sauce over the whites. EGGS, FARCED. Get two cabbage let- tuces, scald them, with a few mushrooms, pars- ley, sorrel, and chervil ; chop them rery small with the yolks of hard eggs, seasoned with salt and nutmeg, and stew them in butter; when they are done enough put in a little cream, and pour them into the bottom of a dish. Take the whites, and chop them very finely with parsley, nutmeg, and salt; lay this round the brim of the dish, and run a red-hot shovel over it to brown it. EGGS, FRENCH. Take some butter and green onions chopped ; put them into a stewpan, stir over the fire with a dust of flour, adding some herb broth ; when it boils skim it, and let it be of a proper thickness; put six hai'd-boited eggs cut into slices in your stewpan, thicken with two yolks of eggs mixed with cream, the juice of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of mustard ; put it in the dish, and serve it up with sippets. EGGS, FRICASSEED. Boil the eggs pretty hard, and slice them ; tlien take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of butter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms ; boil all these up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of a dish, with toasted sippets. EGGS, FRICASSEED (with Onions and Mushrooms). Boil the eggs hard, take the yolks out whole, cut the whites into slips, and some onions and mushrooms; fry the onions and mushrooms ; throw in the whites, and turn them about a little; if any fat, pour it off; flour tlie onions, &c.; add a little good gravy, boil this up, and add pepper, salt, and the yolks. EGGS, FRIED. Slice and fry any kind of bacon, and dish it; have the eggs ready in a disl), and pour them into the gravy; when done tako them up and lay them on the meat. EGGS, FRIED (in Balls). Take a deep frying-pan, pour into it three pints of clarifiedEGG EGG [ 463 ] I butter, heat it as hot as for fritters; stir it with a stick till it runs round very quickly; then break an egg into the middle, and turn it round with the stick till it is of the consistence of a poached egg; the whirling of the butter will make it round like a ball; then take it up with a slice, and put it into a warm pipkin or dish; set it leaning before the fire to keep hot; they will keep half an hour and yet be soft, so you can make as many as you please. You may serve them with fried or roasted collops. EGGS, FRIED (with Marigolds). Strew blanched, minced marigolds thickly over the eggs, and powder them lightly with nutmeg, pepper, and salt as they are poached in the frying-pan ; do them very slowly; do not turn them if they are too much spread; cut them with a cutter all of one size ; dish them on fried sippets that have been steeped in gravy or cream, and powdered with marigolds ; dish over fried parsley, and garnish with fried mari- gold flowers. EGGS, FRIED (with Parsley). Boil some eggs hard ; fry and slice them with olive oil and butter; brown a little butter in a pan with some flour dusted on it, add a little water and salt, let it boil, and pour it on the eggs. Garnish with fried parsley. EGGS, FRIED (in Paste). Make choice of the smallest eggs, poach them when trimmed •and cold, and carefully dry them in a cloth; then prepare a paste the same as for rissoles, into which lay the eggs; cut them the same shape, fry them in the same manner, and serve them very hot on a napkin. EGGS FROTHED. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four (set aside the remaining whites), with a spoonful of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a lemon; fry this, and then put it on a dish ; whip the four whites which were set aside to a froth with sugar, and place it over the fried eggs; bake in a Dutch oven, or with a high cover fitted for the purpose. EGGS AU GRATIN. Mix together some bread crumbs, butter, a chopped anchovy, parsley, scallions, and shallot, all shred small, and the yolks of three eggs ; put this on a dish that will bear the fire, set it over a gentle one till the gratin adheres to it; then break eight eggs on it; season with pepper and salt ; keep it over the fire till sufficiently done; pass a salamander over it, and serve. EGGS WITH GRAVY. Poach some eggs in water w-ith a little vinegar in it; cut the whites round neatly ; lay the eggs in a dish, and pour into the dish some clear relishing gravy. EGGS, HASHED. Boil the eggs hard, slice them, fry an onion sliced in butter, and put in the eggs, a little good gravy, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Serve them hot. EGGS AND LETTUCE. Scald some cab- bage lettuces, and squeeze them well; then slice them, and toss them up with butter; season them with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; set them over a gentle fire in a saucepan with butter, and let them stew for half an hour; then skim off the fat, add to them a fish cullis, and lay them in dishes; poach some eggs in butter, lay them upon the lettuce, and serve on plates. EGGS WITH MACAROONS. Take six eggs, and put two of the whites into a stewpan, mixing them with two macaroons, some orange flowers, and lemon peel, all shred finely, grated sugar, a little salt, and 1 oz. of melted butter ; then mix the above with the rest of the eggs, beating the whole up as if for an omelet; put it into the dish for table, and cook it in hot water au bain-marie. When the eggs are nearly done glaze with some sugar, and pass a salamander over them. EGGS A LA MODE. Take a handful of bread crumbs, simmer them in good fat broth, and when quite thick, and no liquid remains, take it off the fire; chop a good slice of bacon previously boiled to mix with it, and add a spoonful of a la mode beef sauce, not seasoned too highly, the yolks of eighteen eggs beaten up, and the whites of six, with a little pounded coriander, pepper, and salt, if the sauce does not give it taste enough; mix the whole together very well; garnish a deep stewpan all round with slices of bacon, put the prepara- tion into it, and bake it in the oven. When done turn it over gently, take off the bacon, wipe the fat with a cloth, pour the brown glaze over, and let it cool before using. EGGS A LA MODE DE PORTUGAL. Take two large lemons, and strain the juice through a sieve into an earthen pipkin ; add to this a tea-spoonful of basket salt and 2 ozs. of very fine sugar; set it over the fire, and when it boils break into it four eggs ; stir them with a silver spoon till they will not stick to the saucepan, which is a sign that they are done enough ; pour them into a soup plate, and shake over them a little very fine sugar; heat a salamander red- hot, and hold it over them, which will give them a nice gloss. EGGS WITH ONIONS AND MUSH- ROOMS. When you have boiled the eggs hard take out the yolks whole, and cut the white into slips, with some onions and mushrooms. Fry the onions and mushrooms, then add the whites, turn them about a little, dredge them with flour, and add a little mushroom catsup. Boil these up, then put in the yolks, and add pepper and salt. Let the whole[ 463 ] EGG EGG simmer for about a minute, and then serve it up. EGGS WITH PEAS. Boil some young peas in stock, and wben quite done break in some eggs, seasoning them with salt and pepper; put the whole into a braising pan, with a slow fire over and under, that they may be equally done. Serve with fried bread. EGGS, PICKLED. Boil the eggs hard, put them into cold water to preserve their colour, and when they are cold take off the shells without injuring the egg. A jar shoiild be chosen that will pack the eggs, that there may be no waste of room, which also makes a waste of vinegar; they may likewise be pickled in the shell. Season and boil good vinegar with pepper, mace, and salt, and strain it over the eggs; let it cool, and then have a bung fitted, which must be pressed lightly in with a cloth. Look at them in a week, and if they require the vinegar to be boiled do it for sea store or keeping, but for im- mediate use it is not necessary. The same vinegar will answer again and again. A cook will find a store of pickled eggs very useful both in first and second-course dishes, as well as ornamental. EGGS, POACHED. Have ready a sauce- pan of boiling water ; break in your eggs cave- fully, and let them boil for three or four minutes; then take them out with a slice, and serve them either upon toast, spinach, or whatever you please. EGGS, POACHED (with Marigolds). Blanch and mince the leaves of marigolds very finely ; for six yolks add a small clove of garlic, mace, pepper, salt, and two spoonsful of rich cream ; beat together ; put it into a flat dish ; let it come tenderly in a bain-marie ; brown it with a salamander; garnish it with pounded anchovies and a fringe of fried parsley. EGGS, PUFFED. Carefully separate the whites and yolks of eight eggs without breaking the yolks; froth up the whites ; cover one of the yolks carefully with a spoonful of the froth, and so continue till all the yolks are covered; then slide them gently off into a hot friture one after another. Serve \Yith a cullis sauce, made tolerably relishing or sharp with lemon juice. EGGS, RAGOtJTED, Boil twelve eggs hard, take off the shells, and with a little knife very carefully cut the whites across longways, so that they may be in halves, and the yolks whole. Be careful neither to break the whites nor yolks. Take a quarter of a pint of pickled mushrooms chopped very finely, and i oz. of truffles and morels boiled in three or four spoonsful of water; save the water, and chop the truffles and morels very small; boil a little pnrsley, chop it finely, mix them together with the trufile water you saved, and grate in a little nutmeg and beaten mace; put it into a saucepan, with three spoonsful of water, a gill of red wine, a spoonful of catsup, a piece of butter as big as a large walnut, rolled in flour; stir all together, and let it boil. In the mean- time get ready your eggs, lay the yolks and whites in order in your dish, the hollow parts of the whites uppermost, that they may be filled; take some crumbs of bread, and fry them till brown and crisp as you do for larks, with which fill up the whites of the eggs as high as they will lie ; then pour in your sauce all over, and garnish with fried crumbs of bread. This is a very genteel, pretty dish if it be well done. EGGS AND RICE. Wash very clean in warm water 3 ozs. of rice, boil it in a pint of new milk till soft, and pour it into small saucers about the size of an egg when poached, or a little larger; the next day turn them out of the saucers, and lay half of a preserved apricot oii each. They are equally good with any other kind of preserved fruit. Blanc-manger put in saucers in the same way has still more the ap- pearance of eggs. EGGS, SALMIS OP. Boil six bruised shallots in a glass of white wine for about six minutes; mix this liquid with pounded, roasted livers of hares, rabbits, or any other kind of game, to give it the taste; add the yolks of six eggs beaten up with a little gravy, and a spoonful or two of well-seasoned cullis ; strain it, and bake it au hain marie. EGGS WITH SAUSAGES. Fry some sausages, and after them a slice of bread; lay the sausages on it, with a poached egg between each link. If the toast is too strong fried butter it a little. EGGS, SCOTCH. Take five pullets'eggs, boil them hard, and, without removing the whites, cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat, in which let scraped ham or chopped anchovy bear a due proportion. Fry them of a fine yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in the dish^ EGGS IN SLICES. Take the yolks of a dozen hard-boiled eggs, and put them on a dish, with salt, pepper, and basil in powder ; cut the whites and five or six onions into slices, and put them into a saucepan, with half a glass of boiling oil. When about two-thirds done add a glass of gravy and half a glass of white wine; simmer for half an hour, pour it into the dish over your yolks, and lay the sliced whites on the top. EGGS WITH SPINACH. Scald a hand- ful of spinach in boiling water, and drain it fit to be pounded in a mortar; when well pounded pour in a pint of cream, making the cream of a fine pea-green; add a little salt, the yolks of six or eight eggs preserved, macaroni drops, and[ 464 ] EGG ELD -4 rasped lemon-peel; strain and press it; then pour it into a dish, and keep it some time over a moderate fire to catch a little at the bottom ■without burning. Glaze it with powder sugar, and colour it with a hot shovel. EGGS, STUFFED. Take ten or a dozen hard eggs, and cat each in half lengthwise ; take out all the yolks, and pound and rub them through I quenelle sieve ; soak some crumb of bread in milk, and when quite soft press out all the milk; pound and pass it also through a quenelle sieve ; do the same with some good fresh butter ; then take equal quantities of each, mix them together well in the mortar, with the addition of parsley and scallions shred finely; season with salt, pep- per, and nutmeg, and bind the farce with the yolks of eggs. When quite done put a layer about an inch thick on a dish; then put some in each, and cement them together with white of egg; place them in proper order on the farce, set the dish on hot ashes, and cover it with hot ashes also to colour it. EGGS, SWISS. Mi.K 2 ozs. of grated cheese and two of melted butter with six beaten eggs ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and young onions; fry it very liyhtlij with a little butter in a frying-pan, and serve guite hot. EGGS A LA TRIPE. Boil your eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut them longways in four quarters ; put a little butter into a stew- pan, let it melt, shake in a little flour, and stir it with a spoon; then put in your eggs, throw a little grated nutmeg all over, a little salt, and a good deal of shred pai'sley ; shake your pan round, and pour in a little cream; toss the pan round carefully, so that you may not break the eggs. When your sauce is thick and fine take up your eggs, pour the sauce all over them, and garnish with lemon. EGGS, WHITES OF. Take the whites of twelve eggs, and beat them up with four spoons- ful of rose water, some lemon-peel grated, and a little nutmeg ; sweeten them with sugar, mix them well, and boil them in four bladders ; tie them in the shape of an egg, and boil them hard ; they will take half an hour ; lay them in a dish, and when cold mix half a pint of thick cream, a gill of mountain, and the juice of half an orange together ; sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over the eggs. EIDER DOWN. This is the down plucked from her breast by the eider duck (Somateria mollissirna) for covering her eggs. There are two kinds of eider down; the Iwe down, as it is termed, and the dead down; the latter, which is considered to be very inferior in quality, is that taken from the dead bird. The down of superior quality, or live down, is that which the duck strips from herself to cherish her eggs. Jts lightness and elasticity are such, it is asserted that two or three pounds of it squeezed into a ball which may be held in the hand will swell out to such an extent as to fill a case large enough for the foot covering of a bed. It is collected in the following manner:—The female is suffered to lay her five or six eggs, which are about three inches in length, and two in breadth. These, which are very palatable, are taken, and she strips herself a second time to supply the subsequent eggs. If this second batch be abstracted, the female being unable to supply any more down, the male plucks his breast, and his contribution is known by its pale colour. The last deposit, which rarely consists of more than two or three eggs, is always left, for if deprived of this their last hope the bereaved birds forsake the inhospitable place, whereas, if suffered to rear their young, the parents return the following year with their progeny. The quantity of down afforded by one female during the whole period of laying is stated at ^ lb. neat, the quantity weighing nearly 1 lb. before it is cleansed. Of this down Troil states that the Iceland Company sold in one year (1750) as much as brought £850 sterling, besides what was sent to Gliickstadt. ELATERIUM, or Squirting Cucumber {Mo- mordica elalerium). The dose of good elaterium as it occurs in commerce is about one grain, or it is better to give it only to the extent of half a grain at a time, and to repeat that dose every hour until it begins to operate. It is probably, when thus managed, the best water-expelling cathartic which we possess. It differs, however, from the class of remedies to which it belongs, for it excites the pulse and the whole animal system, so as to produce a considerable degree of febrile action. It was strongly recommended by Sydenham, Lister, and Hoffman, and all their contemporaries and immediate successors, as a valuable remedy in dropsy ; but, in consequence of some fatal results from its improper applica- tion, it was driven from practice with a violence that marks prejudice r.ither than conviction. For its restoration to medicine we are indebted to Dr. Ferriar, of Manchester, who used it with great success in the cure of water on the chest (hydrothorax). ELDER ELECTUARY. Take 5 lbs. of the juice of elderberries and 1 lb. of good brown sugar or honey ; let them simmer gently till like thick syrup, and take a spoonful mixed with a little water at bedtime. This preparation is good for a cough, and keeps well. ELDER, EXTRACT OF. For medicinal purposes the extract of elder may be made by reducing the juice and pulp without sugar, and preserving in pots. ELDER OINTMENT. Mix a large handfulELD ELD L 465 ] of elder-buds very well with 2 Iba. of palm oil, and let it stand two days ; then simmer it on the fire, and strain it. When applied to a burn or scald spread it on soft linen cloth, and renew it twice a day. ELDER PASTE. This is an excellent con- fection for the sick room, besides being a paste of very agreeable flavour. Put a quantity of ripe elderberries into a stone jar, place the jar in a pan of boiling water, and let them boil until they are sufficiently soft to be pulped through a sieve. There is very little pulp, but a great deal of juice. Put both into a pan, and boil them until they begin to thicken. When of the consistency of thick oil stir in 1 lb. of sifted sugar to every pint of reduced pulp ; stir it well, and boil the whole mass till it is reduced to a paste ; put it into pots, and keep it in the same manner as currant jelly. ELDER ROB. When the elderberries are quite ripe pick them clean, put them in a jar, and bake them in a slow oven nearly two hours; then squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth, boil it over a slow fire till it is very thick, and keep it stirring. Three quarts should be re- duced to one. Put it into pots, set them in the sun for two or three days, and paper them as usual. This, as well as ihe black currant rob, is an excellent thing for a hoarseness or sore throat. ELDER SYRUP. Pick the berries from the stalks, and put them in an earthen pot, with half a pint of water to each quart of berries; cover them, and set tliem in the oven till they are sufficiently stewed to extract the juice from them. To every pint of syrup add 1 lb. of brown sugar and a little bruised ginger; boil half an hour, and when cold bottle it, cork it up closely, and keep it in a cool place. When to be taken warm at bedtime, as in cases of cold or sore throat, boil a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel in water a few minutes, and then add one-third part of the syrup to two-thirds of water, and a little lemon juice. Blackberry syrup may be prepared in the same way. ELDER VINEGAR. Choose the elder- flowers when just blown, take away all the stalks, and when the flowers are about half dry put them into a jar, fill the jar with vinegar, close it tightly, and let it stand in the sun for twenty days ; then draw it off, press the flowers, and, having filtered the whole, bottle it. Take care to keep the bottles closely corked. ELDER WINE (1). Pour a gallon of boiling ■water on evei-y gallon of elderberries, and let it stand twelve hours ; then draw it off, and boil it up with 3^ lbs. of sugar. When boiling beat up some whites of eggs, and clarify it; skim it clear, add } oz. of pounded ginger to every gallon of wine, and boil it a little longer before you put it in the tuD. When cool put in a toast rnbbed in yeast, and let it ferment a day or two, after which put it into a barrel previously rinsed with brandy. All wines should be milkwarm when the yeast is added to it. ELDER WINE (-2). To 3 lbs. of elderberries put 1 lb. of damsons, and to a nine-gallon cask put a pint of sloes. Boil two gallons of water with 1 oz. of hops for an hour and a half, then put in sugar in the proportion of 4 lbs. to five quarts of water, keep skimming it as it rises, and then set it to cool. Boil the fruit for half an hour, strain the juice, and put a quart of it to every gallon of water; then let it work with yeast three days, put it into the barrel, and stop it closely. The quantity of spice to be regulated by the taste, as may also be the sugar. When the wine has stood four or six weeks add to the above 4 lbs. of stoned raisins. ELDER WINE (very Fine). Boil twenty gallons of water, and when cold add 20 lbs. of raisins cut or chopped small; let them work together ten days, stirring them twice each day; strain the liquor through a flannel bag, then add six quarts of elder juice and a little juice of sloes ; put the whole into a cask, adding 7 lbs. of moist sugar and J oz. of isinglass dis- solved in a little of the liquor, with two pints of brandy; let it stand three or four months, when it raav, if fine, be bottled. ELDER-BUDS, PICKLED. The elder- buds should be gathered when they are about the size of hop-buds; put them into a strong brine of salt and water for nine days, and stir them two or three times a day ; put them into a pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour over them the water they came out of; set them over a slow fire till they become quite green, and then make a pickle for them of alegar, a little mace, a few shallots, and some ginger sliced ; boil this two or three minutes, and pour it upon the buds ; then tie them down, and keep them in a very dry place. ELDER-FLOWER FRITTERS. They are made whilst the elder-flowers are in bloom, and they should marinate three or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange-flower water, and lemon- peel. When drained dip them in good thick batter to fry, and serve with rasped sugar as in general. ELDER-FLOWER WINE. Put 10lbs. of loaf sugar to four gallons of water, and boil it till a sixth part is wasted away. While it is boiling skim it well, then set it by till it is as cool as wort, put in a spoonful or two of yeast, and as soon as it begins to work put in about a pint and a half of blossoms of elder picked from the stalks ; stir it daily until it has done working, which will be in about a week ; then put it in a cask, stop it closely, let it stand two or three months, and if it is clear bottle it off. 2 u[ 466 ] ELE ELE ELECAMPANE. This is the name of a plant, native of England, known to botanists as Inula helenium. The roots are the part used, being aromatic, slightly bitter, tonic, stomachic, and promoting perspiration. They are given in hooping-cough and some other diseases. The liquor in which the roots have been boiled is said to cure the scab in sheep, and any erup- tion on the human skin attended by itching is relieved by the same application. There is a peculiar substance in the roots very like starch, and called by chemists inulin. ELECAMPANE ROOTS: To Candy. Take the fairest roots out of the syrup in the next recipe, wash off the sugar, and dry them with a linen cloth. To each pound of roots take If lbs. of sugar, clarify it well, and boil it to a candy height; then dip in your roots, and after- wards stove them. ELECAMPANE EOOTS: To Peeserve. Wash and scrape the roots very well, cut them thin to the pith, and the length of your finger; put them in soak in water for three days to take away their bitterness, and shift them twice a day; then boil the roots till very tender, and put 12 ozs. of clarified sugar to every pound of roots, and boil them in the sugar over a gentle fire till done enough ; then take them off, let them stand, and when betwixt hot and cold put them up for use. ELECTRICITY, MEDICAL. This has often been successfully employed for relieving the human frame from painful maladies, though it has till lately been treated as an empirical process. Being one of the most powerful stimu- lants, its effects may be considered both as general and local. When the vital principle is in a manner extinguished by too violent shocks it may again be kindled or excited by such as are less powerful. Hence electricity promotes a free circulation of the fluids, and particularly the blood ; increases animal heat, perspiration, as well as all the secretions and excretions of the body. 1. Electricity is always improper in active inflammatory diseases. 2. It is also hurtful when a high degree of excitement is felt in the organs of sense, as well as in those of voluntary motion, and when both are accompanied with relaxation or debility. 3. If any local irritation prevail in the body, such as ulcers, inflammatory tumours, eruptions of the skin, &c. In these cases the electric stimulus has a direct tendency to produce congestions, or a local accumulation of humours. It has, how- ever, sometimes been founft highly beneficial in removing the periodical obstructions, though its application requires great precaution. In pas- sive or chronical disorders and debility it has likewise been of considerable service; but the mode of imparting the electric fluid deserves more attention than has, in general, hitherto been bestowed upon it, and violent shocks for the sake of experiment ought never to be com- municated where less powerful ones might be sufficient. Thus the electric hath, and the gentle application of sparks to any particular part of the body, under tlie conditions before stated, are equally safe and advantageous. On the contraiy, the more violent methods of elec- trifying have so often been attended with mis- chievous effects, that they ought to be applied to those persons only whose capacity of receiving external impressions is diminished, and whose excitability is in a languid state. Deafness, paralysis, head and toothaches, however obstinate, have frequently yielded to the powerful effects of electricity. Similar suc- cess has attended its application to parts affected with the cramp, gouty and rheumatic pains, palsy, and sometimes even epilepsy; besides which, moderate electric shocks have in various instances contributed to the resuscitation of persons whose vital functions were destroyed by drowning. It ought, nevertheless, to be resorted to only in particular cases, and under the im- mediate inspection of a medical practitioner. ELECTUARY is any medical powder or powders mixed into a stiff paste with syrup. Electuary for the worms. Powdered tin, 3 ozs.; syrup of roses, or even treacle, ^ oz.; simple syrup a sufiicient quantity. Dose, a table- spoonful every morning for three days, to be succeeded by a brisk purge. Or, Electuary of cowhage. Cowhage pods scraped into syrup till they render it as thick as honey. Dose, a tea- spoonful in the morning, fasting, as a vermifuge, a purge being given a day or two afterwards. Electuary for the piles. Take flour of sul- phur, i oz.; lenitive electuary, 2 ozs.; nitre, 3 drachms; syrup of orange-peel. Dose, the size of an ordinary-sized nutmeg three or four times a day. Electuary for a cough. Spermaceti, 2 drachms; tragacanth powder, 1 drachm; syrup of poppies and syrup of tolu, of each 2 drachms ; confection of roses, 6 drachms ; nitre, I drachm. Dose, the size of a nutmeg frequently. ELEPHANTIASIS is so called because the leg affected becomes swollen and distorted so as to resemble the limb of an elephant. It is also called " Barbadoes leg," from prevailing in that island. In India we have seen the arms of the natives similarly diseased. Though this disease sometimes comes on without previous indisposition, it is for the most part preceded by febrile symptoms. There is subsequent pain in the groin on one side, affecting the glands. Though these rarely sup-ELI EMB [ ^67 ] purate, a red streak may be observed running down to the leg. On the inflammation there commencing the fever gradually subsides, leaving the leg greatly enlarged. This is afterwards overspread with scales, uneven lumps, and deep fissures. There is insensibility to pain. The limb, too, ultimately becomes of an enor- mous size. Both legs are occasionally affected. Elephantiasis has by some been confounded with the leprosy of the Arabians. Its symptoms are, nevertheless, totally distinct from those which characterise this latter affection. It may continue for years without materially affecting the health, and would seem to be attended with no other inconvenience than that of dragging alohg too great a bulk. This com- plaint admits but of palliative means. These are mild nutritious diet, and the temperate influence of the other natural powers. There are also alteratives, corroborants, and tepid bathing. Though the removal of the diseased limb has been occasionally attempted the ope- ration is seldom found effectual, the other leg becoming generally subsequently affected. We recommend the application of leeches, and of tight bandages to promote absorption. ELIXIR is a compound tincture. ELIXIR, DAFFY'S. See Daffy's Elixir. ELIXIR DE GARRUS. Take aloes, 2\ ozs.; myrrh, ^ oz.; saffron, 2 drachms; cin- namon, cloves, and nutmeg, of each 24 grains. Bruise all these articles, put them into a matrass, and pour over them a quart of highly rectified spirits of wine, in which has been previously mixed 3 ozs. of filtered river water; close the matrass hermetically, and let it stand in the sun or on hot ashes for twenty-four hours, shaking it frequently. The above substances being thoroughly dissolved, put them into a glass alembic, and distil them by means of a sand bath. From the above quantities you will obtain a quart of aromatic spirit, to which add an equal weight of syrup of capillaire, and a sufficient portion of orange-flower water to give an agree- able perfume; then let it stand a fortnight in a %vell-dosed vessel. At the end of that time draw it off ajid bottle it. Seal the corks care- fully. ELIXIR OF LONGEVITY. Take aloes, 1 oz. 1 drachm; zedoaria, gentiana, saffron, rhubarb, Venice treacle, of each 1 drachm. Reduce the five first-mentioned drugs to powder, and let them pass through a sieve ; afterwai'ds put them into a bottle with the treacle, and add a pint of good brandy; stop the mouth of the bottle well with wet parchment, and when it dries prick several pin-holes in it, and put it up carefully for nine days, taking c^re to fttir it well. On the tenth day let the in- fusion be poured out gently into another bottle as long as the liquor continues clear. The bottle containing this infusion must be well stopped with linen. Afterwards pour a second pint of brandy upon your drugs for a second in- fusion, which you will leave other nine days in the bottle, well stopped like the former, and stir it well in the same manner. You must pour it on the tenth day into another bottle, and when you perceive that the liquor is no longer clear put cotton into the funnel, and filtrate it several times if necessary, to have it quite clear. Do not forget to put a piece of linen over the funnel, that the spirit or liquor may not evaporate. The two infusions should be mixed together in a well-stopped bottle, and you may make use of it immediately. ELIXIR, PAREGORIC. Camphor, 1 scru- ple ; opium in powder, |- drachm ; benzoic acid, ^ drachm; proof spirit, 1 pint. Mix, and let it stand for fourteen days. Filter through blotting paper. It allays the tickling which pro- vokes frequent coughing. Twenty drops on a piece of sugar. To allay hooping-cough it is given to children in doses of from 5 to 20 drops. ELM {Ulmus campestris). This beautiful tree is of great value, and well adapted for planting shady walks, as it does not destroy the grass, and its leaves are relished by horses, cows, goats, hogs, and sheep, all of which eat them eagerly. Its wood, being hard and tough, is used for making axletrees, mill-wheels, keels of boats, chairs, and coffins ; it is also frequently changed by art so as completely to resemble mahogany. For this purpose it is sawn into thick planks, stained with aquafortis, and rubbed over with a tincture, of which alkanet, aloes, and spirit of wine are the principal in- gredients. A decoction of the inner bark of the elm tree, if drunk freely, has sometimes procured relief in inveterate dropsies. It has a bitterish taste, and abounds with a slimy juice, which is recommended in calculous cases, and also exter- nally as a useful application to burns. The outer bark is bitter, contains but little muci- lage, and is totally destitute both of smell and taste. The internal bark of the branches is more bitter than that of the trunk, and is pro- bably, on that account, more efficacious. It is chiefly used for cutaneous complaints, such as the herpes, or shingles, and the leprosy. Dambourney obtained from the bark of this tree a yellow brownish colour in dyeing, and De Vilette manufactured of it a strong brown paper. EMBROCATION. A fluid medicine for rubbing on some part of the body. Embrocation for lumbago. Oil of turpentine rubbed on the loins and taken inwardly, 20EME [ 468 ] EMB to 30 drops, in peppermint water, three times a day. Embrocation of opium, compound. Tincture of opium and spirit of sulphuric ether, of each 2 ozs.; spirit of camphor, 2 ozs.: mix. In deep-seated pains in the neighbourhood of the ear this generally relieves sooner than any other application; in toothache it will often give instant ease; in sciatica it is of great benefit; and in painful affections of the muscles it some- times acts as an immediate specific. Embrocation for strains and bruises. Acetated liquor of ammonia, 1 pint; spirits of wine, 3 ozs. Or, camphor, ^ oz.; spirits of wine, | pint; dis- tilled vinegar, 6 ozs. ; water, 3 ozs. Dissolve the camphor in the spirits of wine, and then add the vinegar and water. Embrocation, soap. White hard soap, 3 ozs. ; spirits of wine, f pint; spirit of hartshorn, 4 ozs.; camphor, 1 ounce : as before. EMBROCATION, ROCHE'S. A long celebrated application for the hooping-cough. Mix together olive oil, 2 ozs.; oil of amber, 1 oz.; oil of cloves, 1 drachm. Rub on the chest. EMBROCATION, STIMULATING. Mix olive oil, 3 fluid drachms, with liquor of am- monia, 1 fluid oz. If spirit of hartshorn is used instead of liquor of ammonia it is not so stimulating. Used for rubbing outside the throat when it is sore inside, and over parts affected with rheumatic pains. EMBROIDERY. A work in gold, silver, or silk thread, wrought by the needle upon cloth, stuffs, or muslin, into various figures. In the embroidery of stuffs the work is per- formed in a frame, as the easy manner of work- ing them depends upon the proper expansion of the piece. Muslin is spread upon a pattern, on which* the figures intended to be wrought are delineated. Embroidery on the loom is less tedious than the other method, in which, while the flowers are working, it becomes necessary to count all the threads of the muslin; this latter mode, however, is much richer in points, and is likewise susceptible of greater variety. Cloths which are milled too much will not easily admit of such ornament. The thinnest and finest muslins only are left for this purpose, and are embroidei'ed to the greatest perfection in Saxony. Of late years this work has been attempted in England and Scotland; but it has not yet arrived at that degree of perfection to which it has been carried in France and Ger- many. There are various kinds of embroidery, namely, 1. Embroidery on the stamp, where the figures are raised and rounded, cotton or parch- ment being placed beneath in order to support them. 2. Low embroidery, in which the silver or gold lies low upon the sketch or pattern, and is stitched with silk of the same colour. 3. Giinped embroidery, which is performed either in gold or silver. A design is first made upon the cloth, and then placed on cut vellum, alter which the gold or silver is sewn on with silk thread. 4. Embroidery on both sides, which is thus denominated from its appearing on both sides of the stuff. 5. Plain embroidery, where the figures are flat and even, being totally destitute of orna- ments. We will suppose the embroideress desirous of embellishing a book cover of velvet after the style termed flat embroidery, that is, without shading, save that degree of shadow which may be produced by two shades only, with a darker shade for veining. Having fixed the outline on the velvet, strain it tightly and evenly in an ordinary work frame, with a piece of fine linen tacked over the back. Select two shades of emerald green, one i-ather light, the other three shades darker, with one darker still for the veins, and white for the flowers, all middle size purse silk. Begin at the top or point of the leaf by passing the needle from the under side, taking a stitch each time half the width of the leaf, and slanting. Bring the needle up in the centi'e, and pass it back through the outer edge every stitch, taking care to keep the stitches close together, that the velvet may not be seen through them. In passing the needle from the upper to the under side be careful to place its point some- what under the stitch last made, as that will give a smooth edge, and conceal the ends of the stitches, representing, at the same time, the curvature. Having worked both sides of the leaf, the mid-rib or vein must be produced with the darkest shade thus :—Bring the needle up at the point of the leaf; take a stitch down- wards nearly a quarter of an inch; bring the needle up again about one-eighth of an inch from the last stitch ; pass it backwards about one-third into and under the first. If performed with skill this will have the effect of a small cord. Work the stems of the flowers in the same way with the light shade, making an extra stitch for each of the bells or flowers, which must be worked in the same manner as the leaves. The effect will be very superior if every little bell is slightly raised with soft cotton—say crochet or Moravian cotton—and the stitches of white silk be passed over. The silk should be touched with the fingei'S as little as possible, and kept from curling by holding an ivory mesh under each stitch as it is drawn down. EMERALDS are divided by jewellers into[ 469 3 EME EME two classes or lands, namely, the oriental and the occidental. The former aie at present ex- tremely scarce, being found only in the king- dom of Canibay, in India. The occidental emeralds are chiefly imported from Peru, in South America. A very inferior sort is also obtained from Silesia, which, however, is little esteemed. Genuine emeralds being seldom to he met with, several experiments have been made and direc- tions given for imitating them, from which we select the following:—Take of natural crystal and of red lead, each 4 ozs.; verdigris, 48 grains ; acetate of iron, 8 grains. The whole is to be finely pulverised, sifted, and put into a crucible, the space of one inch being left empty. It is then to be well luted, set in a potter's fur- nace, and left for the same space of time as earthenware. When cool the crucible is to be broken, and these ingredients will be found converted into a mass of a fine emerald colour, ■which, after being properly cut and set in gold, will at least be equal, if not superior, to genuine oriental emeralds. EMERY is a mineral found in the island of Jersey, and is a compound of clay, iron, and flint. It is used for filling little cushions kept in ladies' workboxes for the purpose of removing rust or other roughness from needles. It is also consumed in very considerable quantities by locksmiths, glaziers, lapidaries, masons, cutlers, and others, who employ it for cutting and polishing glass, marble, and precious stones, as well as for the polishing and burnishing of articles made of iron and steel. This species of emery is of a brownish colour, inclining to red, is extremely hard, and consequently very difli- cult to be reduced to powder—an art which has been discovered in this country, and is effected by means of certain mills invented for the purpose. When pulverised it forms a considerable article of exportation. This native ore, when fused with lead or iron, possesses the property of hardening those metals. It deserves no notice either as an internal medicine or as a den- tifrice. EMETIC, TARTAR. See Antimony, Tar- trate OF, AND Potash. EMETICS are those medicines which are either given with a view to discharge the foul or poisoned contents of the stomach, or to stimu- late the coats of that organ, and thus to produce certain changes in other parts of the animal economy not immediately connected with the process of digestion. With the latter inten- tion small nauseating doses are generally ad- ministered, especially in catarrhal and other diseases of the breast. In this place, however, we shall but briefly enumerate the cases in which vomiting may be excited with a proba- bility of success, and also those instances m which this remedy cannot be safely adopted. Emetics may be of great service— 1. Immediately after swallowing narcotic and other poisons. See Antidotes. 2. For the purpose of evacuating viscid, bilious, and putrid matters, or undigested food from the stomach. 3. To assist nature when there is a spon- taneous effort to vomit. 4. To expel substances fallen into and ob- structing the passage of the gullet. 5. To promote the expectoration of mucous and purulent matter collected in the lungs and windpipe, as well as on many other occasions. On the contrary, the greatest precaution is required in the following cases, where a precipi- tate use of emetics may be attended with fatal effects, from bursting a blood-vessel, &c. 1. In all plethoric persons, but especially such as perceive a strong propulsion of the blood to the head, breast, stomach, or liver. 2. In actual inflammation of the intestines. 3. In states of extreme languor and debility. 4. In every species of ruptures and prolapses. 5. In violent pain proceeding from stones confined in the bilious or urinary passages. 6. In obstructions of the bowels and other abdominal parts. 7. In persons of very rigid fibres; for instance, the aged and emaciated. 8. In a very weak or affected state of the lungs, liver, and stomach. 9. In a deformed structure of the body or some particular parts, for which reason emetics might prove dangerous to persons troubled with a hump back, a very short neck, narrow chest, &c. The following are the best emetics usually employed :— 1. Ipecacuanha wine, 1 drachm; tartar emetic, 1 grain ; water, 1J oz. 2. Ipecacuanha in powder, ^ drachm; tartar emetic, 1 grain ; tincture of squills, 1 drachm; water, 8^ ozs. Dose, three table-spoonsful at first, and two or more every fifteen minutes until it operates. 3. Tartar emetic, 2 grains; water, 4 ozs. Dose, two table-spoonsful every quarter of an hour until it has operated sufficiently. 4. White vitriol, 2 grains ; water, 2 ozs., for a dose. Emetic jnlls. White vitriol, 1 scruple ; con- serve of hips enough to make a bolus. To be taken for one dose, drinking camomile tea. The most speedy emetic, and advisable where poison has been swallowed, is 1 scruple of sul- phate of zinc (white vitriol), dissolved in 1 oz. of warm water. A small table-spoonful of flour of mustard in a pint of warm water may be taken if other emetics are not at hand.[ 470 ] END EMO Vomiting may also be produced by tickling the inside of the throat by means of a long feather. EMOLLIENTS are those medicines which are supposed to soften and relax the fibres of the body, either by mechanically distending such as before were too closely, that is, preter- naturally combined, or by penetrating into the interstices of the elementary fibres, and supply- ing those particles from a deficiency of which they were too intimately united. Among the remedies of the former class are chiefly heat and all unctuous applications, such as lard, wax, fat of venison, &c.; to the latter belong all juicy, mucilaginous, and saccharine substances, serving both as nutriment and medicines. Of this de- scription are the expressed vegetable oils, fresh butter, decoctions of the marsh-mallows, intu- sions of linseed, &c. Emollients are required— 1. When the fibres are in too rigid a state. 2. When they are spasmodically contracted. 3. In all active inflammations, and 4. In obstinate costiveness, or accumulations of feces in the intestines. EM POTAGE. Put into a large saucepan 3 lbs. or 4 lbs. of beefsteaks, a knuckle of veal, and four old hens; moisten this quantity of meat with two ladlesful of broth; set it on a stove, and let it boil till properly reduced, taking care that none of the meat burns, which would make the empotage of too high a colour; fill up your saucepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, and onions ; let all these ingredients stand over the fire for three hours and a half; then strain the whole through a silk sieve that it may be perfectly clear. EMULSIONS are medicines resembling milk, often prescribed to prevent the action of acrid humours. Almond milk (1). Sweet almonds, 1 oz.; three bitter almonds. Steep the almonds in hot water for a minute or two, and the skin or bark of them will afterwards peel off easily. White sugar, 21bs.; distilled water, 2 pints; orange-flower water, 2 drachms. The bitter almonds improve the flavour. Or (2), confec- tion of almonds, 1 oz.; distilled water, 1 pint. Pectoral. CamjjJiorated emulsion. Camphor, 1 scruple; sweet almonds, 2 drachms; lump sugar, 1 drachm; water, 4 ozs. Emulsion of gum arahic. Gum arable, 2 drachms; sweet almonds and lump sugar, of each ^ drachm; barley water, 1 pint. Oil of almonds emulsion. Oil of almonds, 1 oz.; gum arable in powder, 1 drachm ; simple eyrup, 1 oz.; rose water, l^oz. In coughs. ENDIVE, BOILED (Salad of). Clean the endive without separating the leaves from the stalks, and boil it in salt and water; remove it into cold water, and drain it on a cloth ; serve it in a deep dish, garnished with beet-root. ENDIVE WITH GRAVY. Blanch and drain some endive, split the heads in half, and season each with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; ihen tie the halves together, put them into a stewpan on some slices of bacon, and cover them in the same way; put in also veal, mutton, or beef (shred), two onions, two cloves, two carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; moisten the whole with the skimmings of consomme. Stew the endive thus for three hours ; then drain and press it in a cloth ; trim and dish it up for table. ENDIVE, POTTAGE OF. Cut four or five heads of endive into very small pieces, and do them up in a small quantity of butter; do not let them brown; moisten with water, and boil for three quarters of an hour; season the pottage with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, pour it as usual on bread, and serve it. ENDIVE IN PUREE. Pick and well wash in several waters a dozen heads of endive; then, having a large stewpan of water boiling on the fire, put in the endive with a handful of salt, skim it well, and let it boil till done; then let it drain for two or three minutes ou a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon rub it through the same sieve into a dish ; put it Into a comer of the sieve again for an hour and a half longer to drain the water from it; then stir it on the fire in a stewpan with a piece of butter; as soon as it is melted add three or four spoonsful of good consomme, and continue btirring it on the fire till it boils to its former thickness; when it does so mix in three spoonsful of bechamel sauce; boil it for a minute, take it off the fire, and stir in the yolk of one egg, with a little cream and salt, and a very little sugar if required. ENDIVE RAGOUT. Take three or four heads of the whitest endive, and put them in salt and water for two or three houis; cut off the heads from ten sticks of asparagus, and chop the rest small as far as they are tender; lay them also in salt and water; take three or four heads of celery washed and scraped clean, and cut in pieces two or three iuches long; put them into a saucepan, with three or four blades of mace, some whole pepper tied in a rag, and a pint of water. Stew tlie celery till it is quite tender, then put in the as- paragus, shake the saucepan, and let it simmer till the asparagus is done. Take the endive out of the water, and drain it well; leave one head whole, and pull the others leaf from leaf; put them into a stewpan with a pint of white wine ; cover the pan quite close, and let it boil till it is Bufficiently done; then put in J lb. of butter rolled in flour; cover it closely, but shake the pan; take up the endive, and put the whole headEPI [ ^71 ] END in the centre of a dish ; arrange the celery and asparagus round it with a spoon, and the leaves of endive over that, keeping it hot; pour the liquor into a stewpan; have ready the yolks of a couple of eggs beaten up with some cream; put in a little salt and some grated nutmeg; mix this well with the sauce, and keep it stir- ring one way till it is thick; pour it over the endive, and send it to table. ENDIVE FOR SALADS. In the countiy it is a good plan to accustom your gardener to raise Cos lettuce and curled endive. He should use in the same salad the three Cos lettuces—white, the streaked with rose, and dark-streaked kind. The hearts of the lettuces should be cut lengthwise, and placed in rays at the top, alternating the colours, not heart by heart, but by two or three of each. The curled white endive should be set up above the let- tuces, and should form in the middle a hollow, wherein the flowers should be placed. The flowers that will serve for garnishing, and are not unwholesome, are nasturtium, borage, mallow, marsh-mallow, white endive, bugloss, periwinkle, and mullein, or torchweed. Reject those plants of which you do not know the properties, because there are some injurious, such as wolf's-bane, the rose, bay, &c. The colours of the flowers should be mixed with taste: nasturtium, the round- leaved mallow, the rose-flowered mallow, and borage may be advantageously used together. ENDIVE SOUP. This is a clear soup, made in the same manner as Lettuce Soup. Be careful to wash the endive well, and pick out all the bitter parts. ENDIVE, STEWED. Take a dozen heads of the very best endive; pick off what you think bitter; wash it well, and blanch it whole in plenty of water with a good handful of salt. When done lay them on a sieve to drain, tie each head separately with packthread, lay them between pieces of fat bacon, and stew them gently in good consomme ; take them out of the con- 8omm6, and lay them in a line upon a clean cloth; take off the packthread, and roll the endive up tightly in the cloth a nainute or two ; then open the cloth, cut the endive in pieces about six inches in length, and lay them on a dish; have ready the sauce a VEspagnole, with a bit of butter mixed in it, and a squeeze of lemon. When this sauce is very hot pour it over the endive, and serve it to table. ENDIVE AU VELOUTfi. Take off all the outer leaves of your endive, and, having opened the hearts, put them into cold water to wash them. In the meanwhile heat a kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, then throw in the endive, and keep it constantly under the water to prevent its turning black. As soon as the endive is tender drain it; then put it into cold water, and when quite cold drain it again ; press the water out with your hands; then chop it small, and put it into a saucepan, with some butter, salt, and pepper ; stir it well, and then add five spoonsful of veloute and the same of consomme ; reduce it till pretty thick, and then put it in a dish with fried bread round it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, in which case put two spoonsful of flour into it, and moisten it with cream. ENDIVE, WHITE. It is eaten in salads, or used for ragouts. For the latter, having picked and washed it, boil it half an hour in water; then change it into cold water, squeeze it well, and stew it with a little butter and cullis if you have any, otherwise thicken the sauce with a little burnt flour and butter. When done season to your taste, skim off the fat, and add a little shallot for those who like the flavour. Serve this ragout under a roasted shoulder, leg, or loin of mutton. ENEMA. See Clyster. ENTREE. There is no word precisely equivalent to this in English. Any dish of butcher's meat, fowl, game, or fish dressed for the first course is called an entree. ENTREMET. There is no word equivalent to this in English. All dishes of vegetables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lobsters, and, in general, everything that appears in the second course except the roast, is called an entremet. EOLIAN HARP. See ^olian Haep. EPIDEMIC, in general, denotes a spreading disorder which, as is supposed, arises from some malaria, and attacks great numbers of people at certain seasons. Mankind have always been more inclined to search for the most distant causes in order to explain physical events, rather than to avail themselves of those which are within their reach. Thus the yellow fever, which in 1793 ravaged the city of Philadelphia, was doubtless generated by the immense quantities of damaged coffee and other putrescible substances exposed in the heat of summer on the muddy banks of the river. In like manner the plague, which formerly destroyed great numbers in London, was not always imported, but probably originated at home, where, in those ages, cleanliness was not so generally attended to as it is at present. Hence this domestic virtue has guarded us against many epidemics to which other less cleanly nations have been subject; but there is still great occasion for improvements, especially in the houses of the narrow courts and alleys of the metropolis. See Contagion. EPILEPSY, Epileptic Fits, or Falling- \ Sickness. This disease comes on suddenly ' without any evident cause, with a sudden loss of sense and violent convulsive motions of theEPI EPI L ^72 ] whole body. During the fit the countenance is variously distorted. After the convulsions have continued for a longer time they subside alto- gether, leaving the patient motionless, though still in a state of insensibility, and under the appearance of profound sleep, the patient on recovery having no recollection of what has passed. The epileptic fit is often preceded by pain in the head, lassitude, some disturbance of the senses, unquiet sleep, unusual dread, noise in the ears, palpitation of the heart, coldness of the joints, sensation of a cold air, the aura epi- leptica, arising in some part of the extremities, and gradually creeping upwards until it reaches the head, when the patient is instantly deprived of his senses, and falls to the ground with a violent scream. The returns of epilepsy are periodical, and the paroxysms take place more frequently duiing the night than in the day- time, being somewhat connected with sleep. It is one of those diseases which are sometimes counterfeited for the purpose of extorting charity or exciting commiseration. Epilepsy may arise from a variety of causes, such as mechanical, chemical, and mental stimuli, especially the effects of fear, joy, anger, &c.; sudden fright; fulness of the vessels of the head; worms ; teething; acute pain; excessive evacuations ; suppression of accustomed dis- charges ; tumours compressing the brain, or any part of the nervous system. It may also arise from an hereditary disposition. The cure of epilepsy must vary according as may proceed from any of the above causes; that is, where it is sympathetic, and arising from worms in the intestines, the medicines proper for dislodging these vermin must be employed. In epilepsy arising from this cause the oil of turpentine, as an anthelmintic, is recommended in doses from \ oz. to 1 oz., taken in pepper- mint water or any other suitable vehicle. When the fits proceed from teething the inflamed- part of the gum over the protruding tooth should be deeply scarified, the body kept open with laxative medicines, and the feet bathed in warm water. If it proceed from any suppressed discharge, particularly the bleeding piles, leeches should be applied, fomentations used to pro- mote the bleeding, and purges of aloes should be given, &c. If from a plethoric state of the system, general bleeding, with the use of pur- gatives and abstemious diet, proper exercise, &c., the disease may be obviated here, as in every other circumstance, by avoiding the ex- citing causes. In some cases epilepsy has been known to continue, from custom alone, after the original cause has long subsided. In these cases the object should be to induce nature to discontinue the custom. When, there- fore, an attack under such circumstances can be foreseen, an emetic given about an hour before its approach may probably prevent it. When the predisposition to epileptic fits proceeds from weakness, which is, sometimes the case, the patient should breathe a cool air, take nutritious food, daily exercise adapted to his strength, particularly on horseback, and go fre- quently into a cold bath, entering at the same time on a course of antispasmodic, astringent, and tonic medicines. The antispasmodics most generally used are valerian, musk, ether, castor, oil of amber, oil of cajeput, opium, &c. See Hysterics. The mistletoe, as an astringent, was formerly the most celebrated in the cure of epilepsy. It was given in powder from h drachm to 1 drachm, or about 1 oz. of the infusion twice a day. Dr. Henry Frazer, in his treatise on epilepsy, still assigns wonderful powers to it, and gives several cases that were radically cured by it. As an antispasmodic bolus previously to an approach of the fit the following may be given every six hours: — Take castor and musk, of each 10 grains; opium, ^ grain; confection of roses. Make a bolus. In plethoric constitutions opium would be improper; but wheie there is no fulness, and the disease seems to depend upon irritation or increased excitement, its use will prove a safe and powerful remedy, and when given in the dose of 2 grains in substance, or 60 or 70 drops of the tincture on the accession, the fit has been pi'evented, or, where this has failed, it has mainly contributed in moderating its violence. Take infusion of cascarilla, 6 ozs.; ammoniated tincture of valerian, 2 drachms; tincture of calumba, 1 oz.; tincture of henbane, l-^- drachm. Make a mixture, and take two table-spoonsful every six hours. The Peruvian bark as a tonic has been much used in the cure of epilepsy ; but it appears to be best calculated for that form of the disease which recurs at stated periods when taken con- stantly. As tonics the metallic preparations have been found more powerful than the vegetable ones, and those now most in use of the former are the sulphate and carbonate of iron, and the ammoniated iron, e.g.:—Take ammoniated iron, 1 drachm ; extract of gentian root, 2 scruples ; syrup a sufficient quantity. Make four boluses, and take one three times a day. Or, take tincture of ammoniated iron, 22 drops, twice or thrice a day in a glassful of water. Or, take sulphate of copper, 12 grains; extract of bark, 2^ scruples; opium, 8 grains; s^vrup enough to make the mass into twenty-four pills, one of which may be taken three or four times a day. Or, take oxide of zinc, 2^ scruples; extract ofC 473 ] EEU EPS gentian, 1 drachm ; syrup enough to make the mass into twenty-four pills, of which two maybe tiiken morning and evening, -with 2 ozs. of the decoction of Peruvian hark. The oil of turpentine has been mentioned by several writers as having been successfully used in some cases of epilepsy, as well as in other spasmodic diseases, given in considerable doses, •without which no evident effect can be produced, carrying it as far as loz. to a delicate, and l|oz. to a robust female, and to about 2 ozs. to a robust man, given in milk, fasting in the morning. This remedy, however, can only be emploved with advantage in cases depending upon a cause not connected with any diseased organisation of the brain, where its administra- tion could only tend, in all probability, more to aggravate the disease than to arrest and tran- quil! ise it. Things the most light, nutritive, and easy of digestion, taking care to avoid whatever is likely to prove flatulent, are best adapted to epileptic patients. Cheerful society and amusing pursuits during the intervals of the paroxysms should be courted: all violent passions and emotions of the mind must be guarded against; and the patient should be careful never to place himself in a dangerous situation, lest the fit should happen to attack him at that time. When, however, the fit is present, the patient must be prevented from doing himself any injury, and particularly that he does not get his tongue betwixt his teeth. In the mean- time, rubbing the nose, temples, and pit of the stomach with ether may go a great way in cutting short the fit by its action on the organs of smell. Change of climate and mode of life are among the other indications laid down for the cure of the severer forms of this disease. EPSOM SALT, or Sulphate of Magnesia, is a gentle purgative, rarely occasioning the griping caused by resinous purgatives. Dose, from 1 to 8 drachms. If the patient be kept warm it promotes perspiration, and with gentle exercise an increased flow of urine. EPSOM WATER is that saline spring which rises at the distance of about half a mile from the town of Epsom, in the county of Surrey. It is transparent and colourless, at first almost insipid, but a short time after it has been drunk it leaves a bitter, saline taste on the tongue. It does not suffer any material altera- tion by being exposed to the air, and if closely corked in clean vessels it may be preserved for several months in a fresh and drinkable state. As this water contains only a small portion of the salt, namely, from one to two scruples in the quantity of half a pint, the patient ought to drink from two to three pints successively within a short space of time in order to produce the full purgative effect. If taken in this dose it will operate in a mild and efficacious manner, but if in a smaller its action is determined to the kidneys. Epsom water is of considerable service in a variety of disorders, namely, hypochondriasis, an impaired state of health accompanied with tumours in the exti'emities, and a depraved digestion, to which sedentary persons are pecu- liarly liable. Those who are afflicted with hemorrhoidal and scorbutic complaints will be benefited by the liberal use of this saline water, •which likewise affords considerable relief in ob- structions of the viscera. This mineral water is easily imitated by dis- solving ^oz. of Epsom salt in a quart of pure water, rendered somewhat acid by the addition of a few drops of sulphuric acid. ERUPTIONS. Children while on the breast are seldom free from eruptions of one kind or other. These, however, are not often dangerous, and ought never to be dried up but with the greatest caution. They tend to free the bodies of infants from hurtful humours, which, if retained, might produce fatal dis- orders. The eruptions of children are chiefly owing to improper food and neglect of cleanliness. If a child be stuffed at all hours with food that its stomach is not able to digest, such food, not being properly assimilated, instead of nourishing the body, fills it with gross humours. These must either break out in form of eruptions upon the skin, or remain in the body, and occasion fevers and other internal disorders. That neglect of cleanliness is a very general cause of eruptive disorders must be obvious to every one. The children of the poor, and of all who despise cleanliness, are almost constantly found to swarm with vermin, and are generally covered with the scab, itch, and other eruptions. When eruptions are the effect of improper food or want of cleanliness a proper attention to these alone will generally be sufficient to remove them. If this should not be the case some drying medicines will be necessary. When they are applied the body ought at the same time to be kept open, and cold is carefully to be avoided. We know of no medicine tliat is more safe for drying up cutaneous eruptions than sulphur, provided it be prudently used. A little of the flowers of sulphur may be mixed with fresh butter, oil, or hog's lard, ajid the parts affected frequently touched with it. Eruptions, such as pimples, blotches, &c., in adults, usually indicate a disordered stomach. Alterative medicine, careful Diet, and Exer- cise (see our notes under those heads), will re- move the eruptions.ERY ERU [ 474 ] ERUPTIVE DISEASES. See Small Pox, Chicken Pox, Measles, &c. ERYNGO, called also the Sea Hollt {Eryn- gium maritimum). The leaves are sweetish, flavoured with a slightly aromatic warmth and pungency. The young flowering shoots, eaten like asparagus, are agreeably flavoured and nourishing. The roots were believed to be stimulating, but the opinion is rai'ely enter- tained now. ERYNGO ROOTS, CANDIED. Clean the roots, and boil them till they are tender; peel them, and extract the pith; put 1 lb. of sugar for each pound of roots into a pan, with just sufficient water to melt it; place this over the fire, put in the roots, and let them simmer till completely saturated with the syrup ; turn and stir them very carefully without breaking them until all the water is evaporated, and the sugar crystallised over them; lay them on wires to cool, and when quite cold put them in boxes. ERYSIPELAS, or St. Anthony's Fiee. This implies an inflammatory affection, con- fined principally to the skin when seated out- wardly, and to the mucous membrane when internally, with hardly any evident swelling, being of a mixed red colour, readily disappearing upon pressure, but quickly returning again, the redness not being regularly circumscribed, but spreading unequally, with a pain like to that of burning, which gives rise to a number of small blisters (which in unfavourable cases degenerate into obstinate ulcers), terminating usually by the falling off of the scarf skin, and sometimes in gangrene, but never in suppura- tion, unless combined with deeper-seated inflam- mation. The treatment of this kind of inflammation is also different from the former. It more particularly attacks those advanced in years, of a weak, irritable, and spare habit. It attacks the trunk of the body, but less frequently than the extremities. It is not uncommon to see infants attacked with it a few days after birth, making its appearance mostly about the genitals. The inflamed skin is very hard, and, to all appearance, very painful to the touch. The belly often becomes uniformly tense, and spots indicating mortifica- tion are observed. It was the opinion of the late Dr. Underwood that in this form of the disease the inflammation frequently spreads to the intestines. There is another species of this inflammation, which most commonly attacks the trunk of the body, known vulgarly by the name of shingles, being a corruption of the French word cingle, which implies a belt, which, instead of appearing in a uniform inflamed surface, consists of a number of small pimples extending round the body a little above the navel, and which, in a short time after their appearance, have vesicles form upon them. Little or no danger attends this type of the inflammation. When it attacks the face it comes on with chilliness, succeeded by heat, restlessness, and other febrile symptoms, with a drowsiness or tendency to sleep, or delirium, and a full and frequent pulse. At the expiration of two or three days a fiery redness appears in some part of the face, which at length extends to the scalp, and then gradually down the neck, leaving a tumefaction in every part which the redness has occupied. The whole ultimately becomes turgid, and the eyelids so much swollen as to deprive the patient of sight. When the redness and swelling have continued for some time blisters of various sizes, containing a thin, colourless, acrid fluid, come out on different parts of the face, and the skin on these places assumes a livid appearance; but in those not affected with blisters the scarf skin, towards the termination of the disease, falls off in scales. The fever does not abate on the appearance of the inflammation on the face, but, on the contrary, increases as the latter extends, and both will probably continue for eight or ten days. The disposition to stupor and delirium, in the course of the inflammation, is sometimes 60 increased as to destroy the patient between the seventh and eleventh days of the disease. When the complaint is mild, and not marked by a fatal event, the inflammation and fever generally cease by degrees without any evident crisis. This disease is very subject to be translated from one part to another, as well as from an external to an internal siu'face, a cu'cumstance which never occurs without the most imminent danger. In all such cases, as well as in many others which we shall allude to in treating of various diseases, it becomes not only too serious a matter to be trusted to domestic medi- cine, but it even requires the utmost care and exertion of some respectable and duly qualified medical or surgical practitioner. When this disease exists in the face in any considerable degree there is great danger of its being carried to the brain. Much diversity of opinion has prevailed, and still prevails, relative to the mode of treating this disease, which it would be diflScult to reconcile. We shall, therefore, only offer a few observa- tions on the mild species of it, when there may be no necessity for calling in professional aid, as, by attention to the following advice, the disease in slight cases may be carried off with perfect safety. The principal attention must be directed to the bowels, whicli should be kept in a laxative state by the use of gentle aperient medicines,ERY [ 475 ] ESO such as manna, lenitive electuary, Epsom salts, &c., in small and repeated doses, or the imperial drink, made as follows :—Take supertartrate of potass (cream of tartar), ^ oz.; lump sugar, 4 ozs.; hot water, 3 pints. This is also an excellent laxative beverage in inflammatory fevers, where great thirst prevails. At bedtime the patient may take from 10 to 30 grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha (Dover's sudorific pow- der), drinking freely, but not immediately after taking it, lest it should occasion vomiting, of weak wine whey, toast and water, or barley water, in which a small quantity of the nitrate of potass (nitre) has been dissolved, for the pur- pose of procuring a gentle perspiration. With respect to diet, animal food should not be in- dulged in; light puddings, sago, panada, &c., are the most proper articles. There is one circumstance which alone should weigh well with family practitioners before they attempt the treatment of the severer forms of this disease, viz., when properly conducted it not unfrequently proves a cure to disorders which have long and obstinately resisted every attempt to remove them. Of external applications we need say but little, for, when the disease is only present in such a degree as to be a proper object of domestic treat- ment, no particular application is necessary, it being sufficient to defend the affected parts from the air by some substance that will not adhere to them. Independently of this, the selection of external applications, as well as of internal reme- dies, must be directed by the state of the system and of the part affected. Solutions of lead, copper, or alum are not to be employed, as they would prove injurious. Oily applications seem to aggravate the parts; cooling lotions, never- theless, have been employed with advantage in the following form:—Take equal parts of Minde- rerus' spirit (the acetated liquor of ammonia), cr muriated ammonia dissolved in water, with the addition of a little vinegar and camphorated spirit. Cloths wetted with this mixture and applied are found to be very grateful to the patient's feelings; but if the disease be mild, and unaccompanied with fever, it will be suf- ficient to keep the patient within doors, without confining him to bed. This disease never appears in aged people, nor in those who have lived freely, without denoting such a state of the system as must exact all the assistance that can be obtained from judgment and experience. Its occurrence in youth and middle age is seldom dangerous except when accompanied with much fever, or when it extends over a considerable surface. There is such a state of body as may be termed erysipelatous—a system, from some con- dition of the blood or nerves, bo predisposed to erysipelatous inflammation that the slightest injury or irritation will produce a considerable degree of erysipelatous or erythematous inflam- mation—as the puncture of a leech, the scratch of a pin—and in which a blister, slight excoria- tion, or even a stimulating plaster, will excite considerable and extensive inflammation. In such habits it is of great consequence to guard against costiveness, in order to prevent local mischief, as affections of the lungs, brain, skin, and intestines, to which such subjects are very liable. The tar or pitch, both of which are certainly powerful correctors of the erysipelatous habit, may be given in conjunction with an aperient, as the following composition:—Take of the purified pitch (Stockholm), ^ drachm ; alkaline extract of jalap, 1 drachm. Mix well together, and divide into twenty pills, one, two, or three of which may be taken every night or morning, with a tea-cupful of the decoction of marsh- mallow root, so as to produce one copious alviiie evacuation daily. The subcarbonate of ammonia, with the Peru- vian bark in the following proportions, has also manifested something like a specific corrector of this habit:— Tonic draught for the erysipelatous. Take of subcarbonate of ammonia from 2 to 4 scruples; infusion of Peruvian bark, 8 ozs.: mix. The dose of this mixture is from two to three table- spoonsful three times a day. During the use of this mixture it is a common practice to administer 4 grains of blue pill, with 2 grains of the precipitated sulphuret of antimony, every night at bedtime for about one week. The bowels should be kept in a regular state by the pills of alkaline extract of jalap and pitch. The late Thomas Cam, Esq., of Hereford, was partial to a solution of the oxymuriate of mer- cury in antimonial wine in cases of chronic ery- sipelatous affections, or for correcting the ery- sipelatous habit, in the following proportions:— Take of oxymuriate of mercury 6 grains; anti- monial wine, 1 oz.: mix. The dose of this composition is from 15 to 20 drops, in a wine glassful of the decoction of the inner rind of elm bark, or a decoction of marsh-mallow root. When the edges of the eyelids are inflamed (a complaint to which erysipelatous subjects are very liable), a little of the following ointment introduced into the inner corners of the eyes, and rubbed over the eyelashes at bedtime, gene- rally succeeds in curing it in a few days. Ointment for inflamed and tender eyelids. Take of spermaceti ointment \ oz.; prepared calomel, ^ drachm; flowers of zinc, 5 grains. Mix. ESCALOPS, or Collops. Small, round,ESS [ 476 J ESC thin pieces of tender meat or fish heaten with the handle of a strong knife. ESCHALLOT. -See Shalt.ot. ESPAGNOLE. Take an old fowl and ahout 14 lbs. of leg or shoulder of veal, chop the latter into pieces, and put them with a very little water into a large saucepan, with two canots, three onions, 1 lb. of ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, and a clove of garlic; let this stew over a moderate fire, shaking it frequently, till it becomes of a brown colour, when you may add to it a sufficient quantity of hot water to come about four inches above the meat; set it hy the side of the stove to boil gently, skimming when necessary, till the meat comes from the bones ; then strain through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. ESPAGNOLE, GRANDE. Take two 97oz« of veal, a pheasant, or four partridges, half a noix of ham, four or five large carrots, and five onions, one of them stuck with five cloves; put all these into a saucepan, and pour over them a bottle of Madeira wine and a ladleful of jelly; set it over a laige fire to reduce it, and then place it on a slow fire until slightly coloured ; take it off, ai>d let it stand about ten minutes ; prepare some sous-noix as directed for Geakde Sauce, and add the liquor to the Espagnole; skim it well, and put in some roux, two or three bay leaves, a little thyme, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, and shallots. As soon as the sauce boils set the saucepan by the side of a stove to let it do more gently for two or three hours. Be very careful that your saucepan is perfectly clean before you use it, otherwise the Espaguole will be thick and muddy. ESPRITS are the same as Essences. ESSENCE. Take half a bottle of white wine, half a glass of the best vinegar, the juice of two lemons, 3 ozs. of salt, | oz. of whole pepper, a little nutmeg and mace, four cloves, four bay leaves, thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten shallots pounded, and 1 oz. of dry mushrooms; put all these ingredients into an earthen pan over a brisk fire. When near boiling lessen the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for six or seven hours; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and afterwards filter it. Keep it in closely corked bottles. A small quantity is sufficient to flavour a dish. ESSENCE OE BEEF. When cured beef is stewed or braised the liquor may be reduced as in Essence of Ham. , Brine of beef, bones of ham, and all sorts of juice may be added. When the whole essence has been procured re- duce and strain it through a thick wet napkin, let it cool, and bottle it. ESSENCE OF CAYENNE. Put ^oz. of the pepper into half a pint of white wine or brandy, let it steep a fortnight, and then pour off the clear liquor. This is an excellent season- ing for soups and sauces. ESSENCE OF CELERY. Steep i oz. of celery seed bruised in a quarter of a pint of brandy or proof spirit, and let it stand a fort- niglit. A few drops will be sufficient to flavour a pint of broth, or pea and other soups. ESSENCE OF CINNAMON. Steep 1 drachm of oil of cinnamon in 2 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. To make a tincture pour a bottle of the best brandy on 3 ozs. of bruised cinnamon. Take care to have genuine cinnamon, not cassia. ESSENCE OP GINGER. Grate 3 ozs. of ginger and 1 oz. of thin lemon-peel into a quart of bi'andy or proof spirit, and let it stand ten days, shaking it up often. This is an ex- cellent stomachic, and one of the best things that can be taken to expel flatulence. ESSENCE OF HAM. Essence of ham is not expensive—so far the reverse that there is much waste when it is not made, and when it is attended to hams are always highly flavoured. If cured at home more attention is paid to the manner of curing them, and also to the manner of cooking, cleaning, and paring, which is of more consequence to the flavour of the ham than is generally imagined. If they are cooked in wine, ale, or cider, these liquors are not lost. When the ham is taken up the essence is either to be immediately finished, or put into a proper pan in a cold cellar till it is convenient; part of it, of course, will be reduced to glaze the ham. When the essence is to be finished take off the cake of fat, and reduce it to one-third ; strain it through a close, wet, linen bag while warm. As ham skin is excellent for covering meats that are braising they may also be put from time to time in the stock pot, as they will dissolve, and add to the flavour and richness of the sauce. ESSENCE OF LEMON. Rasp the lemons very thin; to ^ lb. of raspings allow 1 lb. of sugar, powdered as finely as possible ; mix well till it is all of a colour and well incorporated; press it down into small jars, tie white paper over it, and then leather or bladder, and in one month it will be ready for use. ESSENCE OF ORANGE. Rasp the rind of eighteen China oranges, and squeeze in the juice of six of them; mix the whole well, and boil it in some syrup about twenty minutes, stirring it all the time. When cold put it into bottles for use. * ESSENCE OF OYSTERS. Take 500 or 1000 oysters ; have the shells brushed clean in water ; in opening them save the liquor ; put it upon the fire with the oysters; leave them to boil slowly for eight minutes ; take them up and beard them; beat and pound the beardsETH ESS L 477 ] with 100 of the smallest oysters very finely, and put them to the liquor; season with mace, all- spice, and pepper, and reduce to a fourth; melt 1 lb. of anchovies in white wine, and add it during the boiling; strain through a napkin, and have small fumigated bottles to put it in, and seal it tightly. Mince the oysters, and let them simmer over the fire till every watery part is evaporated in clarified butter, but they must not boil. Fill small pots just with what will be sufficient to use at a time for melted butter or any sauce. ESSENCE OF VINEGAR. During the hard frost expose vinegar to the weather in shallow vessels : the watery parts will freeze, but the sj irit will remain fluid. Repeatedly expose the fluid as it is obtained, and if the season be very cold a pint of strong vinegar will be re- duced, by the frequent exposure, to about a table-spoonful of finely flavoured essence, and very pungent. ESSENCES are the peculiar flavours or odours of vegetables or other substances ex- tracted from them, and comprised in a concen- trated form. See Anchovy, Biorgamot, &c. ESSENTIAL OILS are oils obtained from vegetables by Distillation. (See our notes upon that subject.) That of the camomile is obtained from the flowers ; caraway from the seeds ; fennel from the seeds ; juniper from the beri ies; savine from the leaves; sassafras from the root, bark, and wood ; lavender from the flowering spikes ; ^je/5^er))n«f from the recent herb in flower; spearmint from the recent herb in flower; inmento from the fruit or berry; origanum from the recent herb in flower ; aniseed from the seeds; pennyroyal from the recent herb in flower; rosemary from the flowering tops ; and rue from the herb in flower. Volatile oils are obtained from recent or dried vegetables. Some, as oil of orange flowers and roses, can be procured only from the petals when recent or preserved with salt, while others are generally distilled from the vegetable dried. It is thought that herbs and flowers moderately dried yield a greater pi'oportion of volatile oil than if distilled when fresh. Drying may be useful either by diminishing the bulk of the subject to be distilled, or by causing it to part with its oil more easily ; besides, aromatic waters distilled from the dry herb are more fragrant than from the fresh. Large quantities of the oils of lavender, peppermint, spearmint, and pennyroyal are annually distilled in this country from the fresh herb. The oils of aniseed, camomile, caraway, juniper, origanum, rosemary, and pimento are usually imported. Volatile oils in themselves are not so volatile as water; but many of them rise at 212° un- changed along with aqueous vapour; others are less volatile, and the water must be saturated with sea salt, to raise its temperature to 230°, before it will come over. The subject of distillation, if dry, should be macerated in the water until it be perfectly penetrated by it. To promote this effect woods should be thinly shaved, or sawn across the grain, roots cut transversely into thin slices, barks reduced into coarse powder, and seeds slightly bruised. Very compact and tenacious substances require the maceration to be con- tinued for some time ; for those of a softer and looser texture a short time is sufficient. Herbs and flowers stand in no need of maceration, and are even injured by it. The proportion of water to be added A'aries considerably. More than enough diminishes the product of oil, or prevents its separation altogether, while a deficiency of water does not bring over the whole oil, and increases the risk of still-burning. Some substances never yield oil on the first distillation, and it is necessary to return the distilled water repeatedly upon fresh quantities of the subject in the still pot, and draw it off again and again, until it comes over sufficiently impregnated to part with a propor- tion of the oil. This process is termed cohoha- tion, and by means of it the virtues even of inodorous plants are supposed to be extracted. ETHER is made from alcohol, or spirit of wine, by mixing with it some acid, as the sulphuric or nitric, and distilling from it the very light and inflammable liquid which is formed. Ether taken internally is an excellent anti- spasmodic, cordial, and stimulant. In catarrhal and asthmatic complaints its vapour is inhaled with advantage by holding in the mouth a piece of sugar on which ether has been dropped. It is given as a cordial in nausea, and in febrile diseases of the typhoid type; as an anti- spasmodic in hysteria, and in other nervous and painful diseases; and as a stimulus in soporose and apoplectic affections. Regular practitioners most frequently give only half a drachm or a drachm for a dose ; but empirics have sometimes ventured upon much larger quantities, and with incredible benefit. When applied externally it is capable of producing two very opposite effects according to its management; for if it be pre- vented from evaporating by covering the place to which it is applied closely with the hand, it proves a powerful stimulant and rubefacient, and excites a sensation of burning heat. In this way it is frequently used for removing pains in the head or teeth. On the contrary, if it be dropped on any part of the body, exposed freely to the contact of the air, its rapid evaporation produces an intense degree of cold, and, as this is attended with a proportional diminution of[ 478 ] EXE ETN bulk in the part to which it is applied, in this way it has frequently facilitated the reduction of strangulated hernia. ETNA is the name of an inverted cone- shaped tin vessel, fixed in a cup of the same metal. In this cup a dessert-spoonful of naphtha being burnt rapidly, heat? water in the tin vessel. It is admirable for shaving or the sick room. In the sick room spirit of wine should be used instead of naphtha, the smell of the latter being powerful. ETOUFFfiE. Cut some leg of mutton into pieces the size of half a walnut, and stew them in hog's lard or other fat; in the remainder of the fat fry some chopped chives, and then add a glass of white wine, four cloves of chopped garlic, parsley, pimento, salt, cloves, and cinna- mon ; put the whole into a boiler with a narrow neck, so that a large onion may serve for a lid, and stew it over a gentle fire, stirring it from time to time. When you think the whole is done uncover it, strain the sauce, and serve on slices of toasted bread. EVERTON TAFFEY. Have ready lib. of treacle, 1 lb. of moist sugar, and i lb. of butter. It must be done over a clear fire, and in a saucepan large enough to allow of its boiling fast. First take the butter, and with a knife rub it on the bottom of the saucepan until it is melted; then add the ti-eacle and sugar, stirring all gently with a knife until the whole is in a boiling state. Have close at hand a basin of cold water, in which, after it is boiled for about ten minutes, drop a little from the knife point. If you can take it from the water in a crisp state it is done enough : this will require very nice attention, or it will be spoiled by the taste of burning. Have ready a large tin dripping-pan, with a small portion of butter rubbed over every part; when the taffey has arrived at a crisp point immediately pour the whole into the pan, and let it remain until cold ; then turn the pan, give it a rap or two on the bottom, and the taffey will fall out in pieces. It must not be allowed to be exposed to the air, but should be put into a canister that will exclude the air directly from it, and it will keep any length of time. EVE'S PUDDING. See Pudding, Eve's. EXERCISE. Motion or bodily exercise is necessary to the preservation of health, which is promoted while the bounds of moderation are not exceeded. Too violent exercise, or a total want of it, is attended with equal disadvantages. Much also depends on the kind of motion and the various postures of the body. The essential advantages of exercise are the following:—Bodily strength is increased, the circulation of the blood and all other fluids pro- moted, the necessary secretions and excretions ■»<». are duly performed, the whole mass of the blood is cleared and refined, so that it cannot stagnate in the minutest capillary vessels, and if any obstruction should begin to take place it will thus be effectually removed. That exercise is enjoined by nature we may learn from the whole structure of the human body, the number of muscles formed for motion, and the mechanism in the circulation of the blood itself. There are, indeed, no healthier people than those who take strong daily exercise. Man in a state of health is instinctively excited to muscular exertion, and children that are per- fectly healthy are constantly running about, and in almost uninterrupted motion. But if exercise, either by its violence or dura- tion, exceed the proper limits, it naturally quick- ens both respiration and the circulation of the blood, which may occasion the bursting of small blood-vessels, miscarriages, inflammations, and collections of blood towards certain pai'ts of the body, such as the heart and the brain. The saline acrimony of the fluids is thus more dis- engaged, the fat is dissolved, and inflammatory fevers, hemorrhages, and palsies may be the consequence. Violent exercise is particularly hurtful to per- sons unaccustomed to it, or who have committed excesses in drinking, and, what is still worse, in eating more than is necessary; and those whose bodies have not been sufficiently nourished by food and drink may also be injured by too much e.\^ercise. The sudden transition from a state of rest to violent action is likewise hurtful, and still more so in hot than in cold weather. After strong emotions of the mind every species of bodily exercise ought to be avoided till mental tran- quillity returns after bodily repose ; and we ought to guard against the effects of cold, as it may prove extremely prejudicial in such a state. With respect to the manner of taking exer- cise three principal points are to be attended to. 1. As to the kind of exei'cise, the various species of which may be aptly divided into active and passive. The active are of a very diversified nature—walking, running, leaping, swimming, riding, fencing, the military exercise, different sorts of atJiletic games, as well as every other kind that requires muscular exertion. Passive exercise comprises riding in a carriage, sailing, friction, swinging^ &c. The more active species of exercise are bene- ficial to youth, to those of a middle age, to the robust in general, and particularly to the coi-pu- lent, the plethoric, and those whose evacuations are not in due proportion to their supplies. The passive kinds of exercise, on the contrary, are better suited to infants, to old, dry, and emaciated persons, to the delicate and de-[ 479 ] EXE EXE bilitated, and especially the asthmatic and con- sumptive. 9. As to the time in which exercise is most proper, this depends on so great a variety of con- current circumstances that the rules by which it may be regulated cannot be universal, and must, therefore, be collected from the preceding ob- servations on the properties and effects of air, food, drink, &c. Other particulars, such as relate to the greater or less degree of fatigue attending the different species of exercise, and its utility in certain states of the mind and body, must determine the time, as well as 3. The duration of it; for it is almost impos- sible to lay down positive rules how long every individual, in every particular situation, may continue a certain species of exercise so as to derive advantage. These rules, as far as they can be established, may be collected from the subsequent remarks, and then applied to the various kinds of exercise by which we may be benefited in different cases and situations. It is necessary first to observe that any kind of exercise which we are accustomed to take, with a view to strengthen the body, is far prefer- able to an unusual one, which may be attended with a contrary effect. We ought always to begin gently, and to finish gradually—never abruptly. Exercise in the open air has great advantages over that in houses and close apartments. Be- sides, strong bodily exertions, such as dancing, fencing, turning, and the like, if practised in small and confined places, on account of the in- creased perspiration, soon vitiate the air, and render it unfit for breathing. If we take exercise for the sake of health we ought to employ ourselves during the time with some agreeable object, and not perform any labour, nor seriously occupy the mind. Hence certain kinds of exercise cannot he uncondition- ally recommended to every individual as con- ducive to health, though they should of them- selves be proper, and in other respects agree with the constitution. He who forces himself to take any exercise, or performs it with reluctance, will thence receive more injury than benefit. Motions or tasks, therefore, which we impose upon our- selves as recreations after work, or after sitting and long study, ought to be strictly relaxations, not toilsome exertions. Persons of an active habit find a species of relaxation, and even satisfaction, in a change of their pursuits, and particularly in the transition from hard and difficult to more pleasant and easy avocations. To such individuals any exercise is fi'equently of great advantage, especially if it answer, or appear to tliem to be conducive to any useful purpose. To one who has habituated himself to grave and serious pursuits it should not be recommended to join in amusements that require bodily exertion, and are attended with dissatisfaction and irksomeness, for his health will not be improved by an exercise at once unusual and unpleasant. To continue exercise until a profuse perepira- tion or great lassitude takes place cannot be wholesome. In the forenoon, when the stomach is empty, or at least not too much distended, muscular motion is most agreeable and healthful —it strengthens digestion, and heats the body less than after a full meal. A good appetite after it is a proof that it has not been carried to excess. But it is not advisable to take violent exercise immediately before a meal, as this might occasion a deficiency of those humours which are necessary to promote digestion. If we sit down to a substantial dinner or supper immediately after a fatiguing walk, when the blood is heated, and the body in a state of per- spiration, the worst consequences may ensue, especially if we begin with the most cooling dishes, or with salad, or a glass of cold drink. Exercise is likewise hurtful directly after meals, since it obstructs digestion, and propels those fluids too much to the surface of the body which are designed for the stomach, to promote the solution of food, and without which many crude and undigested particles are forced to enter and to mix with the blood. The old precept of the Salernitan school, " After supper stand, or walk a mile," is as frivolous as it is absurd, for experience sufficiently informs us that most persons, particularly the nervous and irritable, are liable to the heartburn, eructations, and even 'vomiting, when they are obliged to move about or to take any exercise immediately after meals. The instinct of the lower animals also contra- dicts this rule, because the wildest creatures are inclined to rest after food. Persons who are under the necessity of moving immediately after their meals, or who have no other time for walking, must cautiously endeavour to overcome these inconveniences by custom and a more rigid temperance. They should first take the most gentle kind of exercise, and gradually increase it, and, as the late hours of dining now so generally in fashion have in a manner abolished heavy suppers, a moderate walk after a slight evening's repast cannot be injurious ; but at all events fatiguing exercise after a full meal should be delayed till the stomach has digested and assimilated the food, which generally takes place in the third or fourth hour after eating. The most proper occupations after dinner are such as can be per- formed with facility, or without intense reflec- tion or great bodily exertions, and such as afford a kind of amusement. Walking, the most salutary and natural exer- cise, is in the power of everybody, and we can[ 480 ] EXT EXE a(3apt its degree and duration to the various circumstances of health. To this we will here confine our notes. By this exercise the appetite and perspiration are promoted, the body is kept in a proper temperament, the mind is enlivened, the motion of the lungs is facili- tated, and the rigidity and contraction of the legs arising from too much sitting are relieved. The most obstinate diseases, and the most troublesome hysteric and hypochondriacal com- plaints, have been frequently cured by perse- verance in walking. The most proper walk for health is in an agreeable country, in a healthy, pure, dry air, amidst social and cheerful conversations in a mild, sunshiny day, whether in spring, autumn, or winter—in the summer mornings and after- noons, but by no means in the oppressive heat of the sun. To walk in the town, though it gives exercise, is less conducive to health, be- cause the atmosphere is generally filled with vapours arising from impure exhalations. Those who are not hardened against the vi- cissitudes of the weather must avoid not only hail and rain, but also the cold mornings and evenings, and ought, in rough and moist cold weather, rather to take exercise within the house, with the admission of fresh air. Violent wind should also be avoided, and if we are obliged to face it we ought not to walk too fast, particularly in winter, when the small pores of the skin are compressed by the air. In walking the proper choice of place is a matter of much importance. Marshy and damp fields should be avoided, and in autumn, when the foliage is decaying, it is not advisable to choose woods, groves, and damp meadows for our pleasure walks. In summer, on the con- trary, a walk in the forests or meadows is both agreeable and healthful. Hills and elevated situations deserve particularly to be visited, not only on account of the purer air we breathe, but because we enjoy a variety of exercise in ascend- ing and descending. The inhabitants of towns require longer walks for the preservation of their health than country people. The latter, even with less exercise, de- rive vigour of body and serenity of mind from a purer air and more simple manners. Regular and daily walking cannot be too much recom- mended to the citizen, who in the present age is so much harassed with nervous and hypo- chondriacal complaints; but, though this be a useful and excellent s'pecies of exercise, yet some rules ought to be observed if we expect to derive from it the wished-for advantage. 1. We should contrive to procure as much re- creation after serious occupations as is possible and consistent with our situation in life. 2. To read during a walk, whether the subject be of a grave or amusing nature, is a custotn improper in itself, and detrimental to the eyes, besides the danger it occasions of falling. This practice not only deprives a person of the prin- cipal advantages of a walk, but people easily accustom themselves to an unsafe and ungrace- ful manner of carrying the body. It is attended with the worst consequences to the eyes, because the focus is continually shifted, and the retina is thus excessively fatigued. 3. We should not frequent the same, perhaps often a dull and unvaried path, though most con- venient. It, is better to change the walk occa- sionally, and gradually to extend the distance. The most agreeable prospects should be chosen for variety, otherwise the perpetually uniform walk will excite melancholy and unpleasant sensations as much as the closet or the study. 4. We ought to accustom ourselves to a steady and regular, but not a quick pace. 5. An agreeable companion contributes much to serenity of mind ; but let us rather go alone than in dull or frivolous company if we at all possess the art of profiting by solitude. 6. In the choice of our companions we should attend not only to congeniality of character and taste, but should also, in this exercise, associate with those whose pace accords with ours; for, if the heavy and corpulent man makes a lean and light-footed person the companion of his walks, he will remain behind, or be overheated and fatigued if he endeavour to keep pace with his partner, who must likewise suffer from the constraint of slower motion. 7. Some people cannot speak or converse in walking without frequent stops, and thus make little progress. From this singularity they are generally much fatigued at their return, without having reaped anv benefit from their exercise. EXPECTORANTS are medicines intended to facilitate the throwing off of mucus from the windpipe and passages to the lungs. The following are good recipes :—Tincture of squills, 10 drops; diluted nitric acid, 6 drops; extract of hyoscyamus, 3 grains; water, 1^ fiuid ounce. Mix, and take a similar draught three or four times a day. Squills. The powder of the dried root, 1 grain night and morning, made into pills with powdered cinnamon or ginger. Or, vinegar of squills, a small spoonful, with simple syrup, in a little peppermint water three times a day. Ipecacuanha. One grain three times a day made into lozenges. Sulphate of Zinc. One grain, with powdered ginger, twice a day. The Stea.m of Hot Water inhaled into the mouth. EXTRACTS are the active principle of any substance obtained from it, and reduced to aEYE EYE [ 481 J smaller form. Particulars will be found under their various names. EYE. No organ of the body is subject to more diseases than the eye, nor is there any one of which the diseases are more difficult to cure. Though more ignorant persons pretend to cure these than any other class of diseases, yet a very superficial acquaintance with the structure of the eye and the nature of vision will be suCBcient to convince any one of the danger of trusting to them. These diseases often exceed the skill of the most learned physician; hence we may easily infer the dan- ger of trusting them to ignorant quacks, who, without all peradventure^ put out more eyes than they cure. But though the diseases of the eye can seldom be cured, they might often by due care be prevented; and, even where the sight is totally lost, many things might be done, which ai'e generally neglected, to render the unhappy person both more useful to himself and to society. The eyes are hurt by viewing bright or lumi- nous objects; keeping the head too long in a hanging posture; violent headaches; excessive venery; the long use of bitters; the effluvia from acrid or volatile substances; various dis- eases, as the smallpox, measles, &c.; but, above all, from night watching and candlelight studies. Long fasting is likewise hurtful to the eyes, and frequent heats and colds are no less pernicious. The eyes are often hurt by the stoppage of cus- tomary evacuations, as morning sweats, sweat- ing of the feet, the menses in women, and the bleeding piles in men. All kinds of excess are likewise hurtful to the sight, particularly the immoderate use of ardent spirits and other strong liquors. In all diseases of the eyes, especially those attended with inflammation, the cold regimen ought to be observed. The patient must ab- stain from all spirituous liquors. The smoke of tobacco, smoky rooms, the vapours of onions and garlic, and all vivid lights and glaring colours are carefully to be avoided. The drink may be water, whey, or small beer, and the aliment must be light and of easy digestion. For preventing disorders of the eyes issues and setons are of prime use. Every person whose eyes are tender ought to have one or more of these in some part of the body. It will likewise be of use to keep the body gently open, and either to bleed or purge every spring and fall. All excess and night studies are to be avoided. Such as do not choose a seton or an issue will reap benefit from wearing a small Burgundy- pitch plaster between their shoulders. GuTTA SERENA, Or amawosis, is an abolition of the sight without any apparent cause or fault in the eyes. When it is owing to a decay or wasting of the optic nerve it does not admit of a cure; but when it proceeds from a com- pression of the nerves by redundant humours these may in some measure be drained off, and the patient relieved. For this purpose the body must be kept open with laxative mercurial pills. If the patient be young, and of a sanguine habit, he may be bled. Cupping, with scarifica- tions on the back part of the head, will likewise be of use. A running at the nose may be pro- moted by volatile salts, stimulating powders, &c.; but the most likely means for relieving the patient are issues or blisters kept open for a long time on the back part of the head, behind the ears, or on the neck. We have known these restore sight, even after it had been for a consi- derable time lost. Should these fail recourse must be had to a mercurial salivation; or, what will perhaps answer the purpose better, twelve grains of the corrosive sublimate of mercury may be dissolved in an English pint and a half of brandy, and a table-spoonful of it taken twice a day, drinking half a pint of the decoction of sarsaparilla after it. A Cataract is an obstruction of the pupil by the interposition of some opaque substance, which either diminishes or totally extinguishes the sight. It is generally an opacity of the crystalline humour. In a recent or beginning cataract the same medicines are to be used as in the gutta serena, and they will sometimes succeed ; but when this does not happen, and the cataract becomes firm, it must be couched, or rather extracted. We have resolved a recent cataract by giving the patient frequent purges with calomel, keeping a poultice of fresh hem- lock constantly upon the eye, and a perpetual blister on the neck. Myopia, or short-sightedness, and the Pres- byopia, or seeing only at too great a distance, are disorders which depend on the original struc- ture or figure of the eye, and therefore admit of no cure. The inconveniences arising from them may, however, be in some measure remedied by the help of proper glasses. The former requires the aid of a concave, and the latter of a convex glass. See Spectacles. Strabismus, or squinting, depends upon an irregular contraction of the muscles of the eye from a spasm, palsy, epilepsy, or an ill habit. Children often contract this disorder by having their eyes unequally exposed to the light. They may likewise acquire it by imitation from a squinting nurse, playfellow, &c. As this dis- order can hardly be cured parents ought to be careful to prevent it. Almost the only thing which can be done for it is to contrive a mask for the child to wear, which will only permit him to see in a straight direction. In most cases of squinting we shall be enabled 2 IEYE EYE [ 482 ] to afford essential relief by the simple process of binding up the sound eye every day for two or three hours, so as to oblige the patient to make use of the debilitated organ, and, accord- ing as it is more or less indisposed, to keep the other more or less veiled, and continuing these means until the diseased eye is enabled fully and properly to perform its functions. Spots or specks on the eyes are generally the effect of inflammation, and often appear after the smallpox, the measles, or violent ophthal- mias. They are very difficult to cure, and often occasion total blindness. If the specks are soft and thin they may sometimes be taken off by gentle caustics and discatients, as vitriol, the juice of celandine, &c. When these do not succeed a surgical operation may be tried. The success of this, however, is always very doubtful. The Bloodshot Eye may be occasioned by a blow, a fall, retching, vomiting, violent cough- ing, &c. We have frequently known it happen to children in the hooping-cough. It appears at first like a bit of scarlet, and is afterwards of a livid or blackish colour. This disorder gene- rally goes off without the use of medicine. Should it prove obstinate the patient may be bled, and have his eyes fomented with a decoc- tion of comfrey roots and elder flowers. A soft poultice may be applied to the eyes, and the body should be kept open by gentle purgatives. The Watery or Weeping Eye is generally occasioned by a relaxation or weakness of the glandular parts of that organ. These may be braced and strengthened by bathing the eye ■with brandy and water, Hungary water, rose water, with white vitriol dissolved in it, &c. Medicines which make a revulsion are likewise proper, as mild purgatives, perpetual blisters on the neck, bathing the feet frequently in luke- warm water, &c. When this disease proceeds from an obstruc- tion of the lachrymal duct, or natural passage of the tears, it is called a fistula lachrymalis, and can only be cured by a surgical operation. There are many diseases to which the eye is liable, requiring the best surgical treatment, which it would serve to little purpose to in- troduce into a work on family economy, several of them demanding different means of treatment, as the affection may be in the acute or chronic EYE, INFLAMMATION OF. This is also called Ophthalmia. It may proceed from two causes, viz., from diseases of the eye or parts in its neighbourhood, or from diseases of the system. Among the various causes producing inflam- mation of the eye ai'e external injuries, such as blows, bruises, and wounds of the organ itself; extraneous irritating bodies introduced under the eyelids; exposure to bleak winds and cold ; little inflammatory tumours, called sties, which arise on the eyelids ; various acrid fumes, sucli as the smoke of pit coal, wood, turf, &c.; too liberal a use of vinous and spirituous liquors, the suppression of accustomed discharges ; the long application of strong light, or fixed atten- tion to minute objects; an acrimony prevailing in mass of blood, &c. It may also arise as a consequence of other diseases, such as measles, smallpox, scurvy, scrofula (king's evil), venereal complaints, &c. Common inflammation of the eyes usually comes on with a sensation as if some gritty particles had insinuated themselves under the eyelids, accompanied with great heat, redness, and pricking or darting pains. As the in- flammation increases the parts swell, and the vessels of the eye not only become increased in size and turgid, but appear more luminous than in the natural state. Great pain is caused by the least motion of the eyeball, the patient cannot bear the light, and an effusion of tears ensues, which is of so acrid a nature as to excoriate every part on which it hapipens to fall. When the inflammation runs high a disposition to fever often attends. After some days' continuance these appearances gradually abate, and at length ultimately cease; but in some cases a discharge of thick glutinous matter comes on, which collects in considerable quantities, particularly during sleep, about the angles of the eye. An affection of one eye only is often succeeded by an inflammation of the other, more especially in scrofulous habits. This form of inflammation of the eye, when it is not a consequence of other diseases, will readily give way to proper means. To abate the inflammation and irritation it is customary to have recourse to the frequent application of some cooling and astringent wash, applied by means of eye-glasses or wet pledgets of soft linen. Any of the under-mentioned may be used for this purpose :—Take sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), super-acetate of lead (sugar of lead), of each 8 grains; distilled water, or water that has boiled and been left to cool, i pint. Or, alum, 30 grains; rose water, 6 ozs. Or, rose water, 3 ozs.; solution of the acetate of lead, 18 drops. To any of these applications, when the pain is very acute, 30, 40, or 50 drops of the tincture of opium may be added, or the eyes may be frequently washed with a decoction of bruised poppy heads, taking a quarter of a grain of opium internally every four or six hours. The alternate use of cold and warm applica tions has sometimes succeeded, where neither of them singly appeared capable of arresting or putting an end to the diseased action.[ 483 ] EYE EYE In inveterate cases bleeding from the arm or temporal artery, and leeches to the temples duly repeated, with purgatives, emetics, and fomentations, may be employed; and should tbe symptoms not yield to these measures it ■will be proper to apply a blister to the nape of the neck, or behind the ear of the affected side, which ought to be kept open for some days by being dressed with stimulating applications, such as the savin ointment, or cerate of Spanish flies. In cases that appear to be constitutional, or kept up by some acrimonious humour in the habit, an issue between the shoulders or a seton in the neck will be advisable. When, in the first instance, the inflammation has been caused by some extraneous body getting into the eye—for instance, particles of sand, dust, lime, small flies, the hairs of the eyelids, &c.— they should be immediately removed, the part guarded from the light by means of a deep shade of green silk, and an obscure light ad- mitted into the patient's chamber. It may not be out of place here to repeat that bleeding and purging, where the inflammation and irritation run high, should go before every other means, repeating the former, should it be necessary, every fourth day, and the latter at proportionate distances of time, either by means of calomel and jalap (five grains of the former to fifteen of the latter), or by a solution of Epsom salts in the usual dose, or combined with an infusion of senna. If the complaint has arisen from cold, or other causes suppressing perspiration, the pa- tient will receive benefit by taking something to restore this evacuation. Putting the feet in warm water may also be resorted to for the same purpose. If the inflammation be dependent on a venereal taint mercury must be relied on for its removal. Where the eyelids in inflammation are apt to be glued together, particularly during sleep, by a glutinous secretion, this inconvenience may be obviated by anointing the edges with auj^ of the following ointments on going to bed at night, or every night and morning:—Take prepared tutty, 1 drachm ; spermaceti ointment, 1 oz. Or, prepared lard, i.e., such as is sold in the shops, 1 oz.; sulphate of zinc finely pow- dered, ^ drachm. Or, cerate of lead. These observations may sufiice for the less severe cases of ophthalmia, or inflammation of the eye ; but, where the symptoms do not soon and readily yield, proper advice should be in- stantly applied for. EYEBROWS. As it is natural for the eye- brows to be a shade darker than the hair, a slight additional artificial tinge will not be readily detected, while it will give a tone of character to the forehead that must be deficient where the eyebrows are light. Very light eyebrows, indeed, impart to the countenance a sort of babyish vacancy, which must always detract from the influence of the most beautiful features or the finest eyes. In light eyebrows, also, the hair is usually less in quantity than in the dark, which is another reason for adding to their colour by artificial means. For this purpose we recommend the Wash for darkening the eyebrows. Dissolve in 1 oz. of distilled water 1 drachm of sulphate of iron ; add 1 oz. of gum water and a tea- spoonful of eau de Cologne. Mix, and, after having wetted the eyebrows with the aromatic tincture of galls, apply the wash with a camel- hair pencil. Paste for darkening the eyebrows. Take of walnuts, frankincense, resin, mastich, of each 1 oz.; burn them all on clear red-hot charcoal, and receive the fumes into a funnel, to which a very fine black powder, slightly perfumed and unctuous, will adhere. Mix this with a little oil of myrtle in a leaden mortar, and apply it to the eyebrows. This paste has the property of resisting both lieat and perspiration, but it must occasionally be renewed. The following method may also be used:— Clove black for the eyebrows. Burn a clove in the flame of a wax caudle, dip it in the juice or the rob of eldei'berries, and apply it to the eyebrows. The powder, also, which is used in the east for painting the eyelashes, and which is com- posed of antimony and bismuth, or a paste prepared from powdered blacklead, with eau de Cologne, oil of myrtle, or essence of bergamot, may be safely and advantageously used. Though, however, it is indispensable to beauty to have the eyebrows of a dark colour, and also a protection to the sight, as they are the natural shade of the eye, yet when they become large and shaggy they give a look of vulgarity, and are also a mark of old age. If the hair grows too long and thick keep it down with the scissors. If this be not suSicient some of the longest hairs may be removed by the tweezers. The same means may be tried, and are much better and safer than any depilatory, to diminish the extent of the eyebrows, and prevent them from spreading. We have a very different taste in this respect from the ancient Romans, who considered it in- dispensable in a beauty to have her eyebrows meet—what is in Scotland called lucken-browed, from a notion that the person whose eyebrows are so formed is, or should be, lucky. EYELID, INFLAMMATION OF. Sea Erysipelas.FAD [ 484 ] FAS F. FADING is nothing more than bleaching taking place when it is not wished for. For the most part it depends upon the fact, apparently well established, that all coloured substances become colourless if they combine with hydrogen or with oxygen. If an infusion of logwood, of cochineal, of violets, or of turmeric be rendered acid by mui'iatic acid, and a slip of zinc immersed thei'ein, the liquor becomes gradually colourless, and on adding ammonia a white lake is pre- cipitated, consisting of the hydruret of the colour- ing matter combined with oxide of zinc. The zinc has decomposed the water of the acid, and united with its oxygen, and the hydrogen of the water has united with the colouring matter. With oxygen all colouring matters appear also to combine to form bodies quite, or nearly, destitute of colour. Thus, if the chryso-rham- nate of silver be boiled in water, metallic silver separates, and the oxidised colouring matter disappears. This illustrates the manner in which colours fade, and they are more or less fugitive according as their tendency thus to combine with oxygen is greater. On this principle was founded the old process of bleach- ing by exposing the cloth to the conjoined agencies of water, air, and light. The bodies whose colour injured the whiteness of the cloth were gradually changed by oxidation into others less coloured, and more easily removable by Avashing. In the majority of cases, however, the process is not limited to simple oxidation, but carbonic acid is evolved, and the colouring matter is totally decomposed. The colour of many substances, as logwood, archil, litmus, indigo, of most flowers, itc, is removed by sulphuretted hydrogen, and by sul- phurous acid, formed by burning a sulphur match. In these cases there is direct combina- tion, and the colour is restored by expelling the combined gas by heat, or by a strong acid. These details explain why all furniture, pictures, books, and clothes must be removed from rooms about to be fumigated with chlorine for the destruction of infectious and offensive- smelling matters ; also why it is necessary to exclude the light, air, and moisture from fur- niture to pi-eserve its colour; and why a silk umbrella kept in a case retains its colour longer than one constantly exposed. We intended to say a few words upon restoring colours ; but what we have to say will be more clearly stated under the name of each colour, as Black, &c. See also Bleaching. FAINTING. The characteristics are loss of sense and motion, together with sinking or fall- ing down, the heart and lungs scarcely con- tinuing to move. In that species of fainting called syncope the motion of the heart is for a time entirely suspended. While the symptoms take place, and the surface of the body becomes pale, a cold sweat also appears, sometimes on the forehead and on other parts. The eyes are closed, and the extremities become cold. The limbs are flaccid. The mouth is sometimes shut, at other times open. The strength, too, is gone. A recovery is announced by a deep sigh. It is also accompanied with vomiting. Diet abused ; heat immoderate ; impure air, or that which is much rarefied ; exercise too violent; objects, as perceived by the senses, which highly disgust; profuse bleeding; sudden relief from pain ; an injury or aneurism of the heart, or of its great blood-vessels, and ossifica- tions of them, produce this alfection. It may be known from apoplexy by the ab- sence of snoring and of laboured respiration, and from epilepsy by its not being attended with convulsions. The various descriptions of fainting, organic defect excepted, will admit of a cure. The termination, though generally in vomiting, is sometimes in hysterics or epilepsy. The cause, whatever it may be, ought, if possible, instantly to be removed, and if fainting proceeds from loss of blood the body is to be placed in a reclining posture. During the fit such substances as volatile liquor of hartshorn should be applied to the nose, and, as soon as the power of swallowing returns, a little wine or spirit weakened with water may be ad- ministered. With the view of counteracting the tendency to this affection, should it proceed from weaken- ing causes, recourse must be had to nutritious diet, refreshing temperature, pure air, and the correspondent influence of the other ordinary acting powers. Corroborants, chalybeates, mineral watei-s, and cold bathing will also be occasionally found useful. FALLING SICKNESS /S'<?e Epilepsy. " FASHION carries us, as it were, in a per- petual stream, from which we make no attempt to rescue ourselves, but are borne along through all its windings, and are drawn into all the shallows into which folly can pilot us. It does not regulate only the form of our gowns, or the arrangement of our head-dress, but superior tastes and opinions are equally under its dominion. The works of art, however meritorious, if not sanctioned by fashion, are neglected, and the artists allowed to remain un- known. Fashion buzzes its criticisms abroad, and we all admire or condemn accordingly. We cannot avoid comparing this imitative influence on the majority of manldnd to the gregariousFAS [ 485 ] FAT principle which keeps together a flock of sheep, and induces them heedlessly to follow their leaders, even to their own destruction. When near the entrance of the slaughter-houses the poor animals instinctively shrink back, and re- fuse to enter; but if the butcher drags one in by main force all the rest immediately follow. So powerful is the force of fashion in leading into habits, which the victims are fully aware can terminate only in the ruin of their fortunes and the loss of their characters. Opinion, too, is equally under the sway of this arbitrary power. There is hardly anything of a public or a domestic nature that escapes it. Fashion more frequently than good sense makes us pronounce judgment on the conduct of our governors and legislators, on our clergy and moralists. It regulates our table, frequently at the expense of prudence, and even fills our nursery with systems which, with our judgments unbiassed, we should discard as unnatural and injurious. The most absurd fashions have occasionally prevailed; deformities of which nature was never guilty have been esteemed elegancies in shape ; and even diseases have had their seasons of admiration as characteristics of fashion ! Sparkling eyes, that might have vied •with the eagle in strength of vision, have been seen straining through a glass, and limbs agile and strong have appeared feeble and decrepit by the irresistible mandate of fashion! Let any woman possessing the needful qualifications for leading the ton—beauty, rank, and fortune— decorate her person in the most preposterous and unbecoming mode which she can devise, she will still have imitators amidst the throng of inferior beauties, emulous to vie with her in absurdity. Conform in those things which are unimportant, and to deviate from which might give you the epithet of peculiar, but have your judgment in your own keeping, and think for yourself. Thus will you avoid inconsistency and errors which may not be easily retrieved ; thus, also, will you exercise and strengthen the best powers of your mind, and prepare yourself for the discharge of those important duties by which you will find yourself surrounded as you proceed on the journey of life. There is even a fashion in diseases, and it so happens that they are always such as the patient considers interesting. Prominent among these is an extreme sensibility to every change of the atmosphere, or rather, a constantly sensible re- lation to its influence. We are not only more subject to be affected with every current of air, every change of heat and cold, but the feelings of some are so exquisitely delicate that in a close apartment, nay, even in bed, they can determine with accuracy the state of the weather, as well as the direction of the wind. By consulting their sensations these living barometers announce more correctly than the artificial ones not only the present, but even the future changes of the weather. We could never have believed that this additional sense, which is only of modern origin, could have been so much improved, had we not frequently witnessed the sensations of certain patients when a cloud is floating over their heads. A talent so peculiar to our age would undoubtedly excite the surprise, but not the envy of our less refined forefathers. In a climate where the weather changes every day, and almost every hour, it may be easily imagined how dependent, frail, and transitory must be the health of the wretched possessors of this new sense, and that beings so organised cannot warrant for a single hour their state of health, their good humour, or their physical existence. Is it not, then, very probable that many strange and incon- sistent events of the times may have their secret foundation in this dependence on the weather ? In judging of man and his actions we ought first to observe the state of the barometer, as our more superstitious ancestors made the celestial constellations the criterion in their prognostics. Not less characteristic of the present genera- tion, but more painful, are the fashionable nervous and hypochondriacal diseases. These are formidable, insidious tormentors, which not only destroy our physical well-being, but also discompose our tranquillity and contentment, and cloud our fairest prospects of happiness. Without depriving us of life they render it an insupportable burden; without inducing death they make him a welcome visitor. It is unnecessary to detail the diversified shapes in which these maladies present them- selves. Let it suffice to observe that, however intimately the mind appears to be connected with these phenomena, we can nevertheless ao count for them from physical causes. FASTING. See Abstinence. FAT FOR FRYING. The best fat for frying is that supplied by beef kidneys finely chopped and melted, and improved by boiling and clarifying it; put it on the fire in a pot, let il boil, skim it, and draw it off' clear. This fat is preferable to hogs' lard, which is apt to soften the paste, to swell, to froth, and boil it over int> the fire, which renders it very dangerous. Oil also possesses the latter defect, but it does not soften the paste. Melted butter has also the same inconvenience, besides that of being un- economical. When you wish to make a fry warm some fat in the frying-pan, wet your finger, and shake it over the fry : if it crackles and rejects the water it is at the proper heat.FAT FE'A [ 486 ] ' For frying fish hold it by the head, and dip the end of the tail into the fry : if in a second of time this end becomes crisp let go the fish, which take care to turn when half done. Previously, however, the fish should be gutted, scaled, and cleaned, and when it is of a middling size cut into slices and floured. When the fish is fried set it to drain off its fat on a cloth, and serve it sprinkled with salt. FATNESS. See Corpulency. FAUBONNE. This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, all cut in dice except the lettuce and sorrel, which must be bruised. Warm up the roots in a little butter, then put in the lettuce, herbs, and chervil, moisten them with broth, and let them boil over a gentle fire for an hour, or more if necessary; then soak your bread in the usual way, and pour the faubonne over it. FAUCHONETTES. Put into a saucepan 2 ozs. of flour, 3 ozs. of sugar, 1 oz. of butter, Z ozs. of pounded almonds, some green lemon- peel, two yolks and one whole egg, a little salt, and half a pint of milk; put these ingredients on the fire, and let them set like a cream ; line some tartlet tins or moulds with puff paste, fill them with the preparation, place the moulds on a tin, and break the fauchonettes in a brisk oven. When about three parts done take them out, put frothed eggs on, sprinkle sugar over, and replace them in the oven to finish baking. FAWN should be dressed almost as soon as it is killed. When very young it should be trussed, stuffed, and spitted in the same manner as a hare; but it is better eating when of the size of the house lamb, and is then roasted in quarters. The hind quarter is considered the best. It must be done by a very quick fire, and either basted all the time it is roasting, or be covered with slices of fat bacon. When done baste it with butter, and dredge it with a little salt and flour till you get a nice fi'oth upon it. FAWN, SADDLE OF. Well lard it, and put it into a very large vessel, with salt, pepper, onions cut in slices, parsley, vinegar, spices, &c.; leave it to pickle for two or three days, taking care to turn it frequently on each side; then roast it, and serve with a poivrade under it. Mind that the fillets and both legs must be larded. FEAR. There is no emotion of the mind which, with a view to health, it is so necessary to subdue as that of fear. It has justly been called a base passion, and beneath the dignity of man. It robs him of power, re- flection, resolution, judgment, and, in short, of all that pre-eminence which the human mind ought to enjoy. To be terrified, thei-efore, for the effects of thunder, or the appearance of spirits in the night, or similar chimeras, cannot be too strongly reprobated. Fear also has great influence both in occa- sioning and in aggravating diseases, and in preventing their cure. Enlightened surgeons will undertake no important operation where the mind of the patient is greatly alarmed by fear, from a just apprehension of the immediate or remote consequences. By de- pressing the spirits fear not only disposes us to diseases, but often renders those diseases fatal which an undaunted mind would overcome. Indeed, the constant dread of some future evil, by dwelling on the mind, often occasions the very mischief which was so much apprehended. Timorous persons also are more readily infected by epidemical disorders than those possessed of true courage, because fear not only weakens the energy of the heart, but at the same time increases the susceptibility of receiving con- tagion. It increases the malignity of diseases, changes their natural course, aggravates them by a thousand incidental circumstances, and the efforts of nature being thus suppressed, nothing but a speedy dissolution can be looked for. This is a point which cannot be too much in- culcated ; for experience sufficiently demon- strates that many perish from despondency, who, if they had preserved their spirit and vigour of mind, might have siurvived many years. FEATHER BEDS. Feathers when good are light and elastic; if heavy and knotted together they are certainly bad. The quill of the feather should be cut off closely, and only the top of the feather retained. A great evil frequently attendant on new feathers is a disagreeable smell, which, we believe, is owing to the feathers not having been sufficiently stoved to destroy the animal juice. When there is this defect in a new feather bed the only remedy is either to have the feathers 4;aken out of the tick and stoved again, or to have the bed constantly in use. In time the smell wdll go off; but this latter remedy is not a very agreeable one. It is of importance to have a strong linen bedtick. A thin coarse one suffers the feathers to escape from it when the bed is shaken, and in time diminishes the bulk of the bed in a greater degree than many persons would imagine. To every bed there should be, besides the feather bed, either a wool or a hair mattress, a bolster, and two pillows. Those who like a high bed have straw paillasses under the mattress. Hair mattresses are not much more expensive than wool, and being elastic are generally liked better, although they are not so warm. Although we give these directions aboutFEA C 487 ] FEA feathei" beds, yet we are convinced that they ai-e not so healthful to repose upon as mat- tresses. There is no practice more detrimental to the powers and energy of man in the first period of his life than that of immediately sink- ing the tender infant in a soft feather bed. In this situation all the organs become extremely relaxed, and we lay the foundation of a very serious malady, a sweating skin, the soiirce of constant colds, toothaches, headaches, catarrhs, and innumerable other complaints. For these and similar reasons we would advise parents to lay their children from the very hour of their birth on soft and cooling mattresses, under thin blankets or cotton quilts, which do not incommode the body, leave the hands and arms at liberty, and are not liable to excite too great a degree of heat. In the intense cold of winter an additional blanket may be used, which, however, should be removed when the weather becomes milder, and the child grows stronger. But the greatest mischief arises from bolsters or pillows filled with feathers, which must, after a certain time, produce uncleanliness and a dis- agreeable smell. Such a pillow is calculated to collect and retain mephitic vapours, and for this obvious reason it cannot but be unsafe to sleep for a whole twelvemonth with one's head reposed on such a mass of acrid exhalations. This in- convenience may be easily avoided by furnishing children with cushions filled with horsehair, or with the softest bran previously well beaten. The best for this purpose is the bran of oats. The great advantage of these pillows is that they admit moisture to pass through them, consequently they will always remain dry, and may from time to time be renewed, while they preserve a moderate and regular degree of warmth. FEATHERS : To Pkepare. Let two bags be made either of coarse cloth or calico, one to receive the goose and duck feathers, the other for chickens' feathers. Whenever any poultry is to be plucked let the pinion and other large feathers be separated from those of the body ; these latter are to be picked carefully, that no flesh or skin may adhere to the roots of them, and are to be put into the appropriate bag, after \\hicii the large ones are to be stripped from the quills and added to them. On the day following that on which the bread oven may have been used let the bag of feathers be placed in it to dry, and kept there, always excepting, of course, when the oven may be wanted. The bag is to be occasionally hung out in the air on a fine windy day, and beaten with a stick. As soon as there appears to be a sufiicient quantity of feathers for a pillow purchase some ticking, and, having had the case stitched round on the wrong side with double " whity brown " thread well waxed, lay it on a table, and having procured some common yellow bees wax (yellow soap will, however, be preferable), warm the wax, and rub it all over the ticking on the wrong side, in order to prevent the dust and down of the feathers from coming through the fabric. Wax is generally used for this purpose, but, as before observed, we prefer soap, because, in the event of the ticking being washed, the latter material would facilitate the operation; while the former not only stains the case, in consequence of the heat of the water, but pre- vents the soap from lathering. If neither pillows nor bolsters should be required the feathers can be put into a bed that may have become too empty. The goose and duck feathers should be reserved for the best beds, and the " cock and hen," as they are styled, are only fit for those that are inferior, because, being straight, and having no curl or elasticity like those of a duck, they do not rise when shaken, but lie heavy and in masses. It sometimes unfortunately happens that feathers while in the bag contract a taint and putrid scent: this proceeds from careless- ness in plucking the poultry, whereby small portions of the flesh or skin are torn off, and adhere to the roots of the quills. To remedy this unpleasant circumstance, and entirely re- store them to sweetness, let a copper of water be heated or, to save trouble, make use of the soap water in which the clothes of a family wash have been boiled, and while the copper is boiling dip the bag of feathers, tied tightly at the neck, into it; move them about with the clothes' stick to wash them thoroughly for about a minute ; then withdraw the bag, squeeze it against the side by means of the stick in order to express the greater part of the water, and hang the bag in the air, turning and shaking it several times in the course of a few days. When the feathers feel dry and light, and are free from scent, they may be returned again to the oven, and kept aired for use. Those of wild fowl are not available for bedding, owing to the saline particles prevent- ing them from drying. To remedy tliis it is customary to bake them; but the following process will be found more efiicient, and has also the eS'ect of cleansing them from their animal oil:—To eveiy gallon of water put 1 lb. of quicklime, and mix well together. When the lime is precipitated pour off the clear water, and reserve it for use. Put the feathers to be cleaned into a tub, pour on sufficient of the lime water to cover them, work them about, and let them lie immersed for three or four days; then raise them with a sieve, squeezing out the foul water. Wash the feathers in clean water, and dry them in nets, shaking them[ 488 ] FEA FEM from time to time. As they become dry tliey will fall through the meshes, and must be collected and stored for use, after being well beaten to remove the lime dust, should any adhere. Air sliould be admitted freely during the process, which may all be accomplished in about three weeks, and by this means feathers heretofore considered useless made available. FEATHERS FOR HEAD-DRESSES. Whenever returning from exposure to damp air feathers should be held to the fire for five minutes before being placed in the box or wardrobe. Feathers are cleaned by drawing them gently through the hand in soapy water slightly warm until all appearance of dirt is removed, and rinsing them successively in tepid and cold water till they are fit for the bleaching, which at the same time dries them. They are to be curled by holding the feather at a short distance from a clear fire, and with a steel netting-pin taking up each separate portion of the feather, and drawing it somewhat briskly between the pin and the thumb. Our readers may have seen paper cut in strips, and curled in this manner for ornamenting cakes, &c. White feathers are bleached in the same manner as Woollens. See Bleaching. FEET. Two rules most preventive of colds, and generally preservative of health, are to keep the feet warm by e.x.ercise, and dry by having cork or gutta percha between the two leather soles. We know many cases where parties liable to violent colds have long remained exempt from them by this precaution. It is very in- ducive of affections of the head, and preventive of sleep, to get into bed with cold feet. The most effective remedy is to put them into very hot water just before doing so. We have it recom- mended also to draw off the stockhigs just before undressing, and to rub the feet with the hand as hard as can be borne for five or ten minutes. This will diffuse a pleasurable glow, and those who do so will never have to complain of cold feet in bed. Frequent washing and rubbing them thoroughly dry with a linen cloth or flannel are useful for the same purpose. In removing from the feet the accumulating dirt that obstructs the pores, health will be pro- moted by facilitating that perspiration which nature intended. FEMALE DRESS ON FIRE. Seize any- thing sufficiently large, such as a green cloth, hearthrug, drugget, or even a linen cloth if there is no woollen at hand, and wrap it round the sufferer. At the same time lay her gently down on the floor, as it is evident the flames must have much less power on a horizontal than on a perpendicular surface. This should be done even when there is no wrapper at hand. Cold water is the best assuager of pain, and the only safe application until medical assist- ance is procured, which should immediately be sent for. Never apply oil or spirits of any kind. FEMALE SERVANTS. Every mistress of a family will admit the annoyance and in- convenience of frequent change of servants—a proceeding, too, not altogether unattended with expense, besides the worry and anxiety in- separable from the matter, and how readily any one would avoid it if possible. A frequent cause for this change proceeds from the servant wishing to improve her condition, when, having acquired experience, she imagines that she can obtain higher wages in another family. Yet the attempt does not always succeed, and there- fore the change of place is often as unpalatable to the domestic as to her mistress ; but under- taken from the inherent feeling which all possess of endeavouring to better their estate, a principle which should not be checked but stimulated, as tending to exalt the mind and character, and therefore to deter from committing wrong. Now, the increase of a few shillings in wages would often satisfy a servant, and induce her to remain in her place, who, deprived of such encouragement, would assuredly go forth to try her fortune, rather than remain in hope- less certainty that no exertion on her part could improve her condition. And this is a point worth the consideration even of those who have set a limit to their servants' wages; for it is not always the lowest paid domestic that is the cheapest, for the more skilful can fre- quently perform work which the other could not undertake without calling in the aid of charwomen, and all the concomitant evils sure to follow. It cannot be doubted that many of the evils of which mistresses complain would be remedied if they would invariably adhere to giving just and faithful characters. Every servant should be told when hired that the whole of her conduct will be communicated to her next mistress : it is a false and ill-judging lenity that dictates an opposite conduct, and is eventually injurious to both parties. Every one would wish to receive a faithful character when she applies for it her- self, and should therefore be conscientious in giving it, nor conceal even little faults, of which there would be fewer if this conduct were more generally adopted. An author, who not long ago asserted that when you admit a servant into your house you admit an enemy, perhaps approached too near the truth ; yet he might have expressed himself with less severity had he taken all the circumstances into considera- tion ; at any rate, those who would not wish to[ 489 ] FEM FEN have their assent to his opinion extorted by their own experience will be exceedingly cautious with regard to the characters which they either take or give. Inquire for servants either amongst your circle of friends and acquaintance, or from any respectable tradespeople you may employ, who generally know those in their neighbour- hood who are out of place, and when your wants are made known you will find applicants enough. The great object should be to hare servants who have lived in respectable and regular families, and whose habits have been so well formed that they may have but few that require improvement. Do not accept a written character from any unknown quarter, but seek an interview, if possible, with the former mistress of the servant whom you are about to engage. From her appearance and the state of her house you may draw some inference to assist your decision of the suitableness of the servant for your place. If the lady's personal appearance betray negli- gence, or her house untidiness and want of cleanliness, we may naturally conclude that her servant may have similar defects, which, for those with correct habits and notions, would render her unfit for their service. Excess in dress is the prevailing mistake made by female servants. It becomes, then, the duty of every mistress to point out to her female servants the propriety of plainness in their habiliments, and, if her instructions be not regarded, to make extravagance in this respect a serious objection to retaining them in her ser- vice. The head of a family who engages a female servant without warning her of her disapproba- tion of unsuitable dress cannot be surprised if her servant should take advantage of her in- difference and omission. A few hints, delivered in a kind and not peremptory manner, might suggest to a female servant that the following materials of dress are the most suitable to her situation, and only can be permitted Muslin, not lace caps ; cotton and stuff gowns, and petticoats of the same texture; shawls of a durable, but not of a brilliant colour; and bon- nets of straw, which may be cleaned and turned. Occasional recommendations of a simple, yet creditable style of dress may be in many in- stances extremely useful, as our inferiors some- times place great value on such proofs of approbation. Wages vary in different places. In LoTidon they are higher than elsewhere, and it is right that they should be so, as the wear of clothes is greater, and the work frequently harder. Wages differ, too, according to the rank and style of different families. The following table will show the average of annual wages usually given to female servants in the metropolis:— Description of s c r V (in t Rate of wages without any allow- ance for tea and sugar. Rate of wages where an allowance is made for tea and sugar. Highest Lowest Highest Lowest wages. wages. wages. wages. £ s. £ s. £ s. £ s. HoUSGliGGpSr • • 43 0 S6 5 36 15 21 0 IjEK-lips' TIlRld. • ■ 26 5 14 14 21 0 12 12 Uppgr niirs6 • • 31 10 15 15 27 7 10 10 Under nurse . . 16 16 10 10 12 12 8 8 Nursery girl • • 8 8 6 6 6 6 4 4 Cook 31 10 14 14 21 0 10 10 Kitchen maid . . 14 14 10 10 12 13 8 8 Scullion. . . . 9 9 6 6 7 7 4 4 Upper housemaid 16 16 10 10 14 14 9 9 Under housemaid 10 10 8 8 9 9 7 7 Still maid . . . 10 10 9 9 9 9 7 7 Laundress . . . 16 16 12 12 14 14 10 10 Laundry maid 14 J4 10 10 12 12 9 9 Wet nurse . . . 31 10 21 0 26 5 18 18 Maid of all work. 14 14 9 9 12 12 7 7 Wages should be sufficient to allow for decent clothing, and for the laying by of a small sum yearly. This last habit I'ecommend, and even in some degree enforce on your servants ; and the facilities for doing so ai'e now found in every part of the country in the establishments named savings' banks.—(Mrs. Parkes' Domestic Duties.) See Domestic Servants. FENNEL, PICKLED. Take some spring water, and when it boils put in the fennel tied in bunches, with some salt. Do not let it boil, but when it is of a fine green dry it on a cloth. When it is cold put it in a glass with some nut- meg and mace, fill it with cold vinegar, and put a bit of green fennel at the top. Cover it the same as all other pickles with a bladder and leather. FENNEL SAUCE (])• Slice four or five onions, and soak them in two spoonsful of oil, two of cullis, and two of white wine, with two cloves of garlic; simmer them for an hour, skim off the fat, and sift the sauce in a sieve ; then add chopped parsley and fennel, coarse pepper, and salt. Boil a minute before using it. FENNEL SAUCE (2). Pick some green fennel, mint, and parslev, a little of each ; wash them clean, and boil tlicm till tender; drain and press them, chop them finely, add melted butter, and serve up the sauce immediately, for if the herbs are mixed any length of time before being served up to table they will be dis- coloured. FENNEL WATER. This is done simply by steeping some fennel in hot water till it has the taste of the herb sufficiently; add what sugar you think proper, and keep it in a cool place a good while before using. You ma^FEV C 490 ] FEN either ice it or not, according as you may think proper. FENUGREEK {Trigonella fcenumgracum). The seeds have a very peculiar smell, and are used to give flavour to Sapsaga cheese. In Hindostan they are roasted and used as coffee. Ground into flour they are used in poultices. FERMENTATION. See Beeb, Bread, Vinegar, and Wine. FEVERS. This class of diseases is usually divided into intermittents or agues, remittents, and continued fevers, from their taking up dif- ferent times in the order of their natural dura- tion ; some having a number of paroxysms, which follow each other in regular succession at some distance of time, as in agues; in others fresh paroxysms immediately succeed the crisis or turn of the former, so as scarcely to leave the patient entirely free from fever, as is the case in remittents; and in others, again, there is such a quick succession of paroxysms that one comes on before there is any visible abatement of the febrile symptoms, as in continued fevers. There are several species of fever compre- hended under the head of typhus; there is, however, no specific difference in them, as they seem to arise either from a different degree of power in the cause, varying circumstances in the climate or season of the year, peculiar con- stitutional affection, or from some particular state of the fluids, which gives a predisposing tendency to putrescency. Intermittent fever we have treated of under the title Ague, and shall here confine ourselves to the two other kinds. Fever, Remittent or Remitting. This lund of fever is, like the preceding, brought on by putrid exhalations from marshes and stagnant water, impregnated with the decomposed remains of animal and vegetable substances, and is most prevalent when fehere is a sudden transition of temperature, or when calm, close, and sultry weather follows upon heavy rains and inunda- tions. It is also met with in low marshy situa- tions which abound with wood and water, and it mostly attacks those of a relaxed habit, who undergo great fatigue, breathe impure air, and those living upon poor and unwholesome diet. In its simple state it is not infectious, but under bad management, such as crowding too many sick people together, neglecting proper cleanli- ness, and not admitting a free current of fresh air, there is little doub% that it engenders matter capable of producing a contagious fever. Before a patient is attacked with the fever he is commonly heavy and languid ; much anxiety, listlessness, sighing, and yawning prevail, fol- lowed up with alternate heat and cold. When the attack has commenced he experiences severe pain in the head and back; a great increase of heat is diffused over the whole body, considerable thirst and difficulty of breathing are present, with great depression of spirits. The tongue is white—the eyes and skin assume a yellowish tinge—there is pain and swelling about the region of the stomach; nausea and vomiting of bilious matter ensue, and the pulse is small and frequent. When these symptoms have con- tinued for a time the fever abates, or goes off imperfectly by a gentle moisture diffusing itself partially over the skin; but in a few hours it returns with more or less of the preceding symptoms. In this manner it goes on until it changes to a fever of a different type. This is the mildest form of the fever. Sometimes a deluium arises, the symptoms increase with redoubled violence, and carry off the patient. The remitting fever is always attended with some hazard, particularly in warm climates, where it usually runs its course in five or six days ; but in cold ones its crisis is generally not effected until the twelfth or fourteenth day. Each succeeding paroxysm is attended with more danger than that which preceded it, and the shorter and more obscure these paroxysms the greater the danger ; but the milder the attack, and the nearer the fever approaches to the intermittent kind, the fairer the prospect of recovery. From the determination of blood to the different organs, difficulty of breathing, &c., bleeding would appear to be indicated in this disease, and it may be proper in patients of a full and plethoric habit of body at an early stage of the fever. The use of cupping-glasses to the back of the head in protracted cases, where the head is much affected, leeches to the temples, and blisters, are to be preferred to bleeding in the arm. The patient's apartment during the course of this fever cannot be kept too quiet; all irri- tating circumstances, such as too strong a light falling on the patient's face, noise and motion, excess of heat, &c., should be sedulously avoided; a free admission of cool air, the chamber kept at a moderate temperature, light covering to the bed, &c. These may be assisted with some cooling acidulated liquor, such as lemonade, tamarind beverage, or the imperial drink, made in the following manner:—Take cream of tartar, J oz.; white sugar, 4 ozs.; fresh orange-peel, ^ oz.; barley water, 3 pints. To be taken for a common drink. The patient's body linen, as well as that of the bed, must be frequently changed, and the chamber sprinkled throughout the day with vinegar. Whatever is voided by the patient should be instantly removed. His head should be kept rather raised, and where the determina- tion to the head is strong it should be shaved,[ 491 ] FE V FEV and folds of linen moistened with vinegar and water constantly applied to it; his feet should also be occasionally placed in warm water. In all cases of this disease, in consequence of the sickness which prevails at the commence- ment, it will be proper to cleanse the stomach by means of a gentle emetic of the powder of ipecacuanha, or solution of tartarised antimony, after which the bowels may be opened with some mild laxative, such as the following:—Take tartrate of potash, 2 drachms; infusion of senna, 1^ oz.; tincture of jalap, 1 drachm. Or, jalap, 15 grains ; calomel, 5 gi-ains. When vomiting prevails as a symptom of this fever antimonials will be impi'oper. Flannels wrung out in a warm decoction of camomiles and poppy heads may be applied to the region of the stomach ; also ten drops of the tincture of opium, given in some saline vehicle ; e.g., two or three grains of nitre in an ounce or two of water. As soon as it is found that the fever shows a disposition to yield, and when a perfect remis- sion takes place, the Peruvian bark should be given in substance, as directed in Ague, or inter- mittent fever; and should it occasion purging, a few drops (about ten) of the tincture of opium may be added to each dose. To guard against a relapse the bark should be continued for some days after the attacks have ceased, and in seasons and places where this disease is prevalent the bark may be used as a preventive by taking some of the compound tincture about twice a day, or in the morning on an empty stomach. Fever, Simple Continued. Inflammatory fever and typhus, blended in some degree, are supposed to constitute tbis species of fever, the first preponderating at its commencement, tbe latter towards its termination. It is contagious, and occurs more frequently in this country than any other kind of fever. It is induced by everything that has a manifest tendency to enervate or weaken the body ; consequently we find it arising from excessive bodily fatigue, too great indulgence in sensual pleasures, intem- perance in drinking, passions of the mind, and suppression of accustomed discharges; but the most ordinary cause is the application of cold to the body, checking tbe natural perspiration, &c. Other causes are the breathing infectious air from the bodies of people labouring under disease, exhalations arising from putrid animal or vegetable substances, &c. The symptoms marking an attack of this fever are nearly the same which characterise the preceding species, and when the symptoms run high there is a considerable determination of blood to the head, delirium, with, as in most other fevers of the continued kind, an increase of the symptoms towards the evening. If the disease be likely to prove fatal, either from the severity or its long continuance, there is a starting of the tendons, pricking of the bedclothes, involuntary discharges by urine and stool, coldness of the extremities, hiccups, &c.; but where these ominous appearances do not take place the disease runs through its course, and ultimately ceases. It has been supposed that the termination of continued fevers usually happens on certain critical days, viz., the third, fifth, seventh, ninth, eleventh, fourteenth, seventeenth, and twenty- first. It would be fruitless to attempt to furnish the various incidents and peculiarities of fever generally for the information and practice of the domestic practitioner, as it would certainly be more safe to omit medicine entirely than to intrust, much less to recommend, the manage- ment of the patient in these dangerous diseases to any but those who are qualified, by their knowledge of the structure and functions of the human frame, and with the diseases to which it is liable from so many commixed causes, since it belongs exclusively to the profession of medicine, embodied with much practical ex- perience and acquaintance with the animal economy under disease, to distinguish critical and salutary changes from such as have a contrary tendency and effect. It is necessary, however, at the same time, to remark that there is something in all disorders requiring particular attention to the state of the bowels. After these have been cleared out by the necessary and proper means, should the patient particularly request it, he may be in- dulged in moderation in whatever he may ask for, as in fever it is no uncommon occurrence for peculiar longings to arise, although they may not always appear to be proper. It is requisite also to observe, or rather to repeat, that the patient, during the progress of the disease, should avoid all motion of the body, and consequently ought to be confined to bed. All external or internal impressions which lead to thought, as proving stimuli to the body, and tending to excite motion or passion, are to be guarded against. The patient should be kept as quiet and composed as possible; his apart- ment kept cool and suflSciently ventilated by admitting fresh air, taking care, however, that it does not come upon him in a direct stream or current. His bedclothes should not be too heav-y. In this, as in all fevers of the continued type, animal food, spirits, or fermented liquors, &c., should not be taken; the patient's aliment should be of the light nutritious kind, and such as' is easily digested, consisting of barley water, sago, vermicelli, &c., changing them now andFIL FIE [ 492 ] then for boiled prunes and roasted apples. His beverage should be linseed tea, toast and water, milk, whey, thin gruel, and balm tea. With these remarks we shall conclude our observa- tions on fever, either of the inflammatory or putrid kind, as requiring a treatment that could not possibly be anticipated from any other channel than through direct medical advice and superintendence. FIELDFARES. When they are picked and drawn lard them with bacon, put a paper round them, and lay them at a distance from the fire. W^hen they are nearly done take off the paper, and let them finish to be of a nice brown ; then serve with gravy or melted butter for sauce. FIG BLUE. See Blue. FIG S : To Keep. Put some figs in a large earthen jar, with a layer of their own leaves between them; then boil some water and honey, skimming it well (be careful not to make it too thick with the honey), pour it warm over the figs, and then stop the jar very closely. When you take out the figs for use soak them two hours in warm water. FIGS, GREEN: To Preserve. Slit some small green figs on the top, put them into water for ten days, and proceed thus:—Put as much salt into the water as will make it bear an egg; then let it settle, take off the scum, and put the clear brine to the figs; keep tliem in water for ten days, and then put them into fresh water; let them boil till you can easily pass a pin into them, drain them, and put them into other fresh water, shifting them every day for four days. Again drain them, put them into clarified sugar, warm them a little, and leave them to stand till next day; warm them again, and when they have become green give them a good boil; then boil some sugar to souffle, put it to them, and give them another boil. The next day drain and dry them. FIGS, PRESERVED. Take some half- ripe figs, prick them near the stalks, and blanch them. When half cold throw them into cold water, and then drain them; boil some clarified sugar to jjerle, put in the figs, and give them three or four boils with the pan covered closely; then take them from the fire, skim them well, and, having poured the whole into a pan, set it in a stove for the night. The next day drain off the syrup without removing the fruit, boil it up ten or a dozen times, and then pour it on them when no more than lukewarm. On the ensuing day, having drained off the syrup, boil it to (jrande perle ; then add the figs, cover the preserving pan closely, boil the whole up once, skim it well, and put it into pots, &c., for use. FIGS, RIPE: To Preserve. Take the white figs when ripe, slit them in the tops, put them into clarified sugar, and give them a good boil; skim them, and leave them to stand till the next day; then boil some sugar au souffle, put it to the figs, and give them another boil; the next day drain and dry th^m. FILBERT BISCUITS (I). Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them into a mortar to break their shells ; pick all the shells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very finely, and mix whites of eggs with them; take care they do not oil. Mix 3 lbs. of powder sugar with the nuts and whites of eggs to a proper thickness ; let your oven be of a moderate heat; then with a spaddle and knife drop small pieces about half the size of a nutmeg, put two or three sheets of paper under them, bake them of a fine brown, and all alike, and let them be cold before you take thera off the paper. FILBERT BISCUITS (2). Take i lb. of filberts, 1. oz. of bitter almonds, the whites of six and the yolks of three eggs, 1 oz. of flour, and i lb. of sugar. Blanch and pound the filberts and almonds, adding occasionally a little white of egg to prevent their oiling; beat the whites to a snow, and then the yolks; mix the latter with half the sugar, beat them well, and, having mixed the other ingredients together, put them into a sieve, and whilst you are beating sift them into the whites. When they are all thoroughly incorporated pour the preparation into paper cases, and bake them in a moderate oven. A little grated lemon-peel or any other aromatic ingredient added to the yolks greatly improves these biscuits. FILBERT BLANC-MANGER. Blanch 1 lb. of filberts, lay half of them in water for two hours, and put the other half into a pan over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly with a silver spoon till they are of a clear yellow, when remove them from the fire, and let them cool; then pound them, adding occasionally a little water to prevent their oiling. When well pounded take them from the mortar, and put them into a pan with two glasses and a half of water; press the whole through a napkin to extract the milk, to which put 1 oz. of sugar. As soon as the latter is dissolved press it a second time through a napkin, and add to it i oz. of isinglass. Proceed in a similar manner \yith the filberts which have been in the watei", by which means you will liave one part of the blanc-manger perfectly white, and the other a clear light yellow. Finish your blanc-manger in the usual way. FILBERT, BURNT (Cream Patissiere). Wash, drain, and dry ^Ib. of filberts, throw them into a preserving pan, in which is ^ lb. of sugar boiled to souffle; let them boil up about a dozen times, and then stir them lightly with a spatula that the sugar may adhere to the filberts.FIL [ 493 ] FIL As soon as it begins to candy pour the whole on the slab, carefully removing whatever sugar may stick to the pan or spatula. When the almonds are cold add 2 ozs. of powder sugar, and then crush them with a rolling-pin; put them into a cream patissiere, and make it accord- ing to the directions for that article. FILBERT, BURNT, ICE (Ckeam of). Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and pound them a little with some cream ; put four eggs into a stewpan, with one pint of cream and two gills of syrup; boil till it becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it; then mix the filberts with it before putting it into the moulds. FILBERT CANNELONS. Burn and pound 6 ozs. of filberts, moistening them with the white of egg. When well pounded add :^lb. of finely pounded sugar, and half the white of an egg; dry this paste a little, and then press it through a syringe, cutting the cannelons about four inches in length ; make afriture quite hot, dip the cannelons in batter, and fry them ; sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them with a salamander. Take particular care to keep the cannelons perfectly straight. FILBERT CREAM, FRANCAISE. Wash and drain ^ lb. of filberts (blanched), and colour them very slightly. When cold pound them, adding occasionally a spoonful of milk; put the paste into five glasses of boiling milk, cover it closely, and let it stand till no more than luke- warm. In the meantime beat up the yolks of eight eggs, into which strain the infusion of filberts, and add 10 ozs. of sugar and a grain of salt; set the cream in the usual way, put 6 drachms of isinglass to it, and finish as directed for Ceeam, French, au Marasquin. FILBERT GENOISE Pound 6 ozs. of blanched filberts to a fine paste, then put two- thirds of them to the usual ingredients, instead of sweet almonds, and make the Genoises ac- cording to directions. When baked cut them into crescents, but do not dry them; mix the remainder of your filberts with J lb. of sifted sugar and a little white of egg; cover the Genoises with this, and then colour them. FILBERT ICE. Take 1 lb. of filberts, shell, and blanch them; boil ^Ib. of sugar to souffle, then throw in the filberts, let them boil up about a dozen times, and then move them about with a spatula that the sugar may adhere to them. As soon as they begin to candy take them out, and when cold put them into a sauce- pan with the yolks of nine eggs, to which add a quart of double cream. Set this on the fire like all other cream ices. When done strain it off, let it cool, and then ice it as usual. FILBERT MACAROONS. Take 1 lb. of filberts, and put a quarter of them into a pre- serving pan over a moderate fire immediately after they are taken from the shells; stir them continually with a silver spoon until they are coloured, and the skin begins to peel off; then take them out, rub off the skin entirely, and when quite cold pound them with a little white of egg. Proceed in the same manner with the three remaining quarters, and when all are thus pounded separately put the whole together into a mortar, with 1 lb. of sugar and the whites of two eggs ; beat them for ten minutes, after which add 2 lbs. more of sifted sugar, previously beaten up with the whites of six eggs; stir all these well together for five or six minutes, when the preparation should be suffi- ciently firm to prevent its spreading when laid ; if, however, it be too firm add to it more white of egg. When you have proceeded so far wet the palms of your hands, and roll a spoonful of the preparation to the size and form of a nutmeg. When all are done dip your hands in water, and pass them gently over the macaroons, which will make their surface smooth and shining; put them into a nearly cold oven, close it tightly, and let them remain in it for three quarters of an hour. Lay the macaroons at least an inch apart, and as round as possible. FILBERT MIRLITONS. Peel Jib. of filberts, and put them into a preserving pan over a moderate fire to colour them lightly. When quite cold pound them with a little white of egg to prevent their oiling; then mix them with 6 ozs. of powder sugar, four eggs, and a grain of salt. When well amalgam.ated add 2 ozs. of melted fresh butter, and fill your moulds pre- pared as for other mirlitons ; cover them with very fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. FILBERT ROLLS. Having peeled ilb. of filberts put them into a preserving pan over a moderate fire, and stir tliera constantly with a spatula until they become equally coloured of a light yellow, and then set them to cool. When cold pound them with a little white of egg to a paste, and mix them with ^ lb. of flour, the same of powder sugar, and the yolks of four or five eggs; then finish the operation as directed for Almond Rolls. Dorez, and trace on the surface an ear of wheat, or anything else, with the point of a knife. Take care to dry them well in baking, that they may be crisp. Coarse powder sugar may also be strewed over before they are put in the oven. FILBERT, SMALL, WAFERS. Take ^ lb. of the preparation used for spoon biscuits, and spread it over a well-buttered baking plate with a knife, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness all over; peel J lb. of filberts, cut them into thin slips, and mix them with 2 ozs. of powder sugar and a very little white of eggFIL [ 494 ] FIL strew this over the above preparation, and bake it in a moderate oven. Finish in the usual Jiianner. FILBERTS: To Pkeseeve. Do not remove their husks, but when perfectly ripe and dry put them into a stone jar, and keep the jar closed down, and in a cold cellar. FILBERTS, BURNT (Red). Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and set them in the oven to roast. Have a pan of syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almost to caramel; put a little cochineal into a cup, and when the sugar is boiled add to it the cochineal and the filberts, and stir them with a large wooden spoon till you find the sugar has got hard round them; put them in a sieve, and separate those which stick together. Have another pan with syrup, boil it as before, and as high ; put the same quantity of cochineal in, and mix them as before, as by doing them a second time they will become a much finer colour. Put them into a box. FILBERTS, BURNT (White). Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and set them in "the oven to roast; then have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almost to caramel; put the filberts in, stir them till they are all covered with sugar, pick them in a sieve, and break those which stick together; then have another pan with syrup boiled the same as the first, and give the filberts a second coat of sugar. FILBERTS, CONSERVE OF. Upon ^ lb. of sugar put 1 oz. of filberts cut into as small strips as possible, the kernels being first scalded as is done in Blanched Almonds, to get the skin off. Finish the same as Dhied Consebyes. FILBERTS, PETITS SOUFFLES OF. Beat up i lb. of sifted sugar with the white of an egg ; grate into this 3 ozs. of burnt filberts, mix them together, and if necessary add the white of another egg. Finish the petits souffles as usual. FILLET OF BEEF. See Beef. FILLET OF MUTTON. See Mutton. FILLET OF VEAL. See Veal. FILTER. All waters from rivers or other sources having an earthy or woody flavour should be filtered before they are drunk. We have tasted water employed by cottagers in the marshes of Essex, and on heaths in Berkshire, absolutely*loaded with'the extracts from dead vegetables ; and in towns well waters have been analysed fetid with still more loathsome im- purities. Water from a well near Highgate, close", to the churchyard, contained 100 grains of solid impregnations in a gallon; and the nitrates of lime and magnesia, amounting to more than half of the impuiities, told of the dis- gusting drainage whence they came. All water containing vegetable or animal impurities should be purified by filtration, and for this purpose nothing is so efficacious as charcoal. The following is a very simple arrangement:— A Overflow pipe. B The supply pipe from the pump. c The filter, on a false bottom, pierced with holes. On this is laid two inches depth of pebbles ; on these two inches of sand; above this two inches of powdered charcoal; then two inches of sand; and at the top two inches of stones, so large as not to be removable by the force of the water. Another filter, to he fastened to the tap of a water cask, is thus made:—Take a piece of zinc perforated with small holes (say 200 to the square inch), and cut out a circular piece three inches in diameter. Procure a piece of fine thick flannel, close in its texture; make a bag somewhat in the shape of a pear; about the middle of this bag fasten the circular plate of zinc by passing a needle and thread through a few of the holes, and through the sides of the bag. Let the upper end be made as wide in diameter as the plate of zinc, and apply the usual contrivance for drawing it close like a bag's mouth. Insert a piece of fine sponge into the space above the plate, or, if sponge is too difficult to be had, some pieces of charcoal coarsely pounded ; but to use both sponge andFIN FIR [ 495 ] charcoal ia best. Draw the upper end of the bag closely round the under part of the water crane or tap, and fasten it tightly there. The foulest water issuing from the pipe will pass out at the lower and narrow end of the bag as pure and clear as possible. When foul the sponge can be taken out and cleaned, or the charcoal renewed. The plate of zinc may be so fastened as to be easily removed: this will be better, as it will allow the bag to be washed and cleaned, as particles of matter may lodge in the part of the bag under the plate. FINANCIERE. Mix cocks' combs and kidneys with some fish forcemeat, some mush- rooms, some truffles sliced, bottoms of artichokes in small pieces, sweetbreads of veal, or livers of poultry; the whole to be done to a nicety. Prepare all as a fricassee of fowl, and you will have a financiere, which may be served with some crusts round it, or as a garnish to a vol-au- vent, a pullet, a fowl boiled au blanc, a fricassee of fowl, or other entrees. FININGS OF ALUM. Boil a drachm of alum in a pint of water till one-half is eva- porated; then put it warm into the cordial liquor in the proportion of half a tea-spoonful to a gallon. FININGS FOR WINE. Take the whites and shells of three fresh eggs, beat them in a wooden vessel till they become a thick froth, add thereto a little wine, and whisk it up again. If the cask be full take out four or five gallons, and give it a good stirring ; next whisk up the finings, and put them in, after which stir tlie whole well; drive in the bung, bore a hole for a vent, and in about three days close it with a peg- FIRE. There is in this, more than in most things about a house, a right and a wrong way of managing every process connected with it. In preparing a fire for lighting fill your grate with fresh coals quite up to the upper bar but one; then lay in your faggot of wood in the usual manner, rather collected in a mass than scattered, that a body of concentrated heat may be produced as soon as possible ; over the faggot place the cinders of the preceding day, piled up as high as the grate will admit, and placetl loosely in rather large fragments, in order that the draught may be free; a bit or two of fresh coal may be added to the cinders when once they are lighted, but no small coal must be thrown on at first. When all is prepared light the wood, when the cinders becoming in a short time thoroughly ignited, the gas rising from the coals below, which will now be affected by the heat, will take fire as it passes through them, leaving a very small portion of smoke to go up the chimney. The advantage of this mode of lighting a fire is, that small coal is better suited to the purpose than large, except a few pieces in front to keep the small from falling out of the grate: it may be kept in reserve to be put on afterwards if wanted. We have fre- quently known our fire, lighted at eight o'clock in the morning, continue burning till eleven at night without anything being done to it: when apparently quite out, on being stirred you have in a few minutes a glowing fire. It will some- times be necessary to loosen or stir slightly the upper part of the fire if it begins to cake ; but the lower part must not be touched, other- wise it will burn away too soon. Founded on a similar principle are the following directions :—Clean out the grate ; cover the bottom with a sheet of paper, cut or folded to fit; place your coals in the grate to the level of the top bar, keeping the larger pieces to the front to prevent waste. Light your fire on the top, and allow it to burn down- wards undisturbed. An ordinaiy fire prepared in this way will, according to the size and form of the grate, burn six, eight, or ten hours with- out any renewal of coal, and burning brighter and warmer than if lighted from below, as fires are ordinarily made. The coal should be tolerably equal in size, something like Mac- adam stones for roads. Place the larger pieces in front, the small to the back. We have continually and for years had fires thus managed, and can vouch for the saving of coal, as well as the cheerfulness and warmth, and freedom from smoke of the fires. The usual mode of " mending a fire " is tf throw on an immense quantity of coal to & feeble and almost exhausted body of cinders, which this overwhelming mass nearly extin- guishes. In five minutes the injudicious house- keeper becomes impatient, and the poker is thrust in at the top of the fire to stir it. The principal part of the cold mass of black dust instantly rushes into the midst of the cinders ; no trifling portion of it pours through the bars, mixes among the ashes, and is necessarily wasted; while all the remainder, excepting that lightest part which has in the meantime floated out into the apartment in dingy clouds, and settled on the furniture, lodges in the front of the grate, choking it up, and thus preventing any access of atmospheric air to revive the expiring fire. Exclamations follow of the badness of the coals, and the bad construction of the grate ; that dull red spot among tlie coals waxes more and more sullen; fresh attacks with the poker complete the affair, and it is turned over to the servant, who is summoned to light the fire. The following is our simple plan:—When the fire has become low we stir it together, never turn the large cinders, admit air by. clearing the front of the lower bar, andFIR FIR [ 490 ] pass the polcer into the bottom of the fire to allow some of the ashes to escape. Then with the tongs place a very few pieces of coal at the top, towards the front, avoiding to rest any flat sides of these pieces against the tipper bar, as they would impede the air, and cause the grate—any grate—to smohe. Angles only may touch the bar, because they rather increase than check a circulation of air, by forming interstices through which it will rush, keeping the front of the fire bright, and carrying up by its rarefaction all dust and smoke. We never throw on coals, but with a shovel proceed to sprinkle a little small coal over the whole of the top, the front pieces forming a barrier against its otherwise inevitable descent through the bars; then we throw up all that is beneath the grate, including the smallest ashes, and finally add another quantity of small coal over the whole. FIRE BALLS. {See Coal Balls.) Other kinds of these balls are made solely of the earth from which fire bricks are made. When the fire has well ignited, and is burning clearly, three or more of these balls are put upon the lack of the fire. They sink down into its body, become red-hot, and require very little fuel afterwards to keep them at a glowing red heat. FIRE BLOWER. Common bellows, appa- rently in imitation of the lungs, appear to have been known to the Greeks at a very early period. However uncertain the exact period of their introduction, there is no doubt their origin is of great antiquity. The first contrivance for increasing the quickness of the combustion of fuel was, in all probability, a hollow straw or reed, and very likely a strong leaf or vegetable blade was also frequently used for the same purpose, in the same manner as the housewife of the present day uses the board of a book or B small tray to create an artificial current. Virgil, in his " Georgics," mentions that cows' leather was only fit for making bellows ; and Strabo tells us that Anacharsis, the celebrated traveller, whose writings are so familiar to the classical scholar, invented the bellows : accord- ing to Beckman the probability is that he became acquainted with them during his travels. The first improvement in bellows, when required on a large scale, was making them entirely of wood, but in the common household bellows little or none has been made for a very long period indeed, the only exception worthy to be mentioned being the rotatory-fanner bellows of Mr. Clarke. The action, however, of all such contrivances, by which air is impelled towards the burning mass in a stream or column more or less enlarged in diameter, must necessarily be exceedingly partial in its operation ; and from the nature of these it is impossible to enlarge the area of the column of air sent out, as by a large aperture the velocity and force of the stream are much diminished, unless, indeed, more power is obtained, which, incurring as it would do increased bulk, is totally incompatible with the nature of a " handy domestic article." There are certain unvarying laws of nature regulating the currents of the atmosphere, by which the combustion of fuel may be much increased. Foreign to the nature of these articles, we will refrain from entering into the explana- tion of the rationale of these laws, and content ourselves with explaining a simple contrivance by which these may be made available:—Get a large sheet of thin plate iron, or several sheets of tin joined together so as to make a square, two inches less than the front of the "register grate " to which it is to be applied, and reaching down to within one inch of the lowest bar; solder or fasten an angular strip so as to project all round. The edge of the upper strip must be chamfered or hammered in about one-eighth of an inch; this will catch hold of the slit running along the top of the grate ; a handle should be fastened to the front. By hanging this before the grate the front is completely closed in, and the air forced with great velocity through the under bars of the grate, through and between every part of the coals and burning portions; and thus equable in its action, and of considerable force, the flame will, in a short time after the blower is put on, be heard roaring like a furnace. In cases where the chimney smokes from deficient draught this may be in use while the nuisance continues. FIREPLACE. The construction of grates is of some consequence to the warmth and comfort of rooms. These are of every shape, size, and pattern, and must depend greatly upon the taste and purse of the purchaser; but it is advisable to regard the good qualities of a grate rather than its form or finish. Some grates give very much more heat than others, and these are not always such as attract the eye; but this point should be most considered. It is generally admitted that grates give more heat when seated low than they do when placed high in the chimney. We confess we are not of this opinion. We do not mean that grates should be fixed extremely high, but we have always felt more comfortable warmth from those of the old-fashioned height and shape than we have ever done from the new. Scientific chemical reasons are given in favour of low grates, but moderately high grates give us the greatest degree of warmth, and it is possible that others may have experienced this also. Sarcophagus grates, that stand on low feet upon the hearth, are the most miserable of all contrivances in our opinion, although we haveFIR FIR [ 497 ] known many who think they emit more heat than any others. How difficult, how impossible, indeed, it is to give rules on any subject! It is scarcely possible to meet with two persons or two writers whose feelings and opinions correspond. Bright steel grates are very beautiful, and are often preferred; but in small establish- ments they are not desirable, because they give so much additional work to the housemaid, and if they are not very carefully attended to they rust and lose their beauty. A clever servant, or an experienced and watchful eye in the lady of the house, is essential to the management of bright grates, and young housekeepers with limited means would do wisely to avoid them.. The common iron grates, when neatly and handsomely constructed, and properly cleaned, are quite good enough for persons of moderate fortune and simple tastes. It is a very good plan to have the whole of the iron- work painted black; it looks better when cleaned, and there is less trouble in cleaning it. If the back and sides of fireplaces are made of stone or brick, much more heat is given out than when they are constructed of iron, which, to use the simplest mode of expression, absorbs more heat than it throws into the room ; while stone and fire brick, on the contraiy, throw out more heat than they absorb. To give the greatest amount of heat the sides of a fireplace should not be at right angles to the front, or, as it is usually described, " straight at the sides," forming a square within the chimney, because the heat would not then be thrown so forward as it would be if the sides were coved, or the " corners cut off," to use a lady's phrase. We will give a description of a grate that we have used for many years in a sitting-room, the warmth and comfort of which are very great, although it is old-fashioned in some respects, and fixed higher than the fashionable grates are now placed. It is consti'ucted of iron, except the cheeks, which are of fire brick. The back and sides are of iron, and this is a defect; but the coved shape of the sides favours the emission of heat, although it would be much greater if they were formed of stone or brick. The height of the lower bar, which rests on the knobs, is exactly twelve inches from the hearth, and there are twelve inches between the upper bar and the frame- work above it. The shape and appearance of the grate are by no means inelegant; but the or- namental part can, of course, be adapted to the taste of the purchaser. Fire brick, when used as cheeks, is apt to break from excessive heat, and require renewal; but it will last a long time, and the trouble and expense of replacing it are trifling. The advantage of small lady-like hobs is by no means to be overlooked by those who enjoy their tea, and like to linger over it. A fireplace without hobs loses a charm as well as a convenience, and we advise every lady to contrive them if she can. Even the present fashionable fireplace, which consists only of an iron bottom and front attached to sides of brick or stone, may be rendered more convenient by having small round flat slabs of iron fixed in the corners on the outside, between the upper bar and the side. If the slabs are perforated like open work, and neatly finished, they are very ornamental also, even in a drawing-room. The size of a grate must be judiciously adapted to the size of the room. A large grate in a small room, or vice versa, is quite out of place and taste, and fuel is wasted in both cases, either by over or under heating the apartment. Small grates are best in bed- rooms, which should never be overheated: nothing is so unwholesome as sleeping in a very warm room to persons in health. If dressing-rooms are attached to sleeping apart- ments it is always desirable that the former should contain the fire; but in moderate houses this is very seldom the case, and many persons suffer so much from cold in the winter that a fire in their room is absolutely necessary. Small grates, therefore, raise the temperature sufficiently without any injurious effect; but if a fire can be dispensed with it is desirable to avoid it, particularly in the morning. The difference there is in our feelings when we leave the room where we have dressed with or without a fire is strikingly in favour of the latter, and it would be a great advantage to young people if they were always brought up to do without this ex- pensive and enervating luxury. Many comforts may be, and very, very often are given up on principle when circumstances change, as they do so frequently in this chequered life; but the virtuous self-denial may be in some cases painful, and even injurious; whereas, if un- accustomed to luxuries in our youth, we scarcely miss their short-lived existence. Small grates for small bedrooms are simply and cheaply made by coving the sides of a chimney, and fixing bars in the brickwork to form the front and bottom of a grate. If a flue runs up the side of a room which contains no fireplace this simple grate may easily be inserted, at the cost of fourteen or fifteen shillings, including every charge ; and, as venti- lation is essential in sleeping rooms, it may thus be secured very cheaply. The width of the fireplace may be proportioned to the size of the room. Stoves are extremely unwholesome in rooms, and unpleasant in their effects. The air be- comes so close and hot that oppression and headache frequently ensue, and there is great 2 KFIR FIS [ 498 ] liability to cold when quitting a room thus warmed for the open air. A peculiar sensa- tion pervades the body; then a chilliness of the skin, which is never felt except on leaving very close or stove-heated apartments. Even in shops we feel sometimes oppressed by the closeness produced by stoves, and gasp for breath when we regain the open air. How unwholesome, then, for those who are compelled to breathe this heated air day after day! Stoves in halls are convenient, because they " burn anything;" but an open fireplace made of iron, and connected with a flue by a pipe, is pre- ferable, and gives plenty of warmth for the interior of a large house, divested of all the smothery, unpleasant effects of a stove. If the draught is properly managed it will bum "any- thing" also, and looks cheerful too, and hos- pitable, which a stove never does. The American stove for burning wood only is the best contrivance of the kind we ever saw, particularly for airing rooms, which it does effectually in two hours, even making the curtains dry and crisp, and airing beds, blankets, &c., in an incredibly short time; and we do not think it is so unpleasant, by any means, as the English stove. It is made of sheet iron, and stands upon four tall, light legs, which render it perfectly safe when placed upon a floor or carpet, without there being any neces- sity for putting an iron plate beneath the feet. Before the door of the stove a sheet of iron is fixed, very much in shape like a dustpan, with raised sides to keep any litter from falling upon the floor. A short piece of pipe is afiixed to the back, to which pipes of any required length can be added, with the elbow resting on the top bar of a fireplace; but the length of pipe containing the regulator must always be next the stove. The whole apparatus is so light that it can I e carried about like a basket. The size which we have found to draw best, and to be the most convenient, measures 14^ inches in depth, the same in breadth, and the same in the length of the leg; while the length of the body (it being oval in shape) is 20 inches. As this stove will only burn wood it is only useful in particular situations; but where wood can be obtained at a cheap rate it will be found extremely convenient. We have been thus particular in our remarks upon grates, because much of our comfort depends upon a warm fireplace in our variable climate ; but we have not attempted to describe the many kinds that are now to be seen in shops. We will only add that simple grates give quite as much heat as highly ornamental ones, and that a great deal of money may be thoughtlessly lavished upon that which is cliiefly esteemed because it is dear. Let young ladies remember this when they are furnishing their house or their wardrobe; for money is a talent of great value, and, if wasted or misused, will rise up against us at a time when houses, and lands, and the world, and all that is therein, can profit us nothing. FIRKIN, when applied to ale, is intended for a vessel containing 7J imperial gallons, that is, 2538 cubic inches. Two firkins are equal to one kilderkin. A firkin of butter is about 56 lbs. FIRMITY. See Feumentt. FISH. There is a general rule in choosing most kinds of fish. If their gills are red, their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff, they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills are pale, the eyes sunk, and the fish flabby, they are stale. The greatest care should be taken that the fish is properly cleansed before being dressed, but not washed beyond what is absolutely neces- sary for cleaning, as by perpetual watering the flavour is diminished. When clean, if the fish is to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give it firmness. Care should be taken to boil the fish well, but do not let it break. Cod, whiting, and haddock are much better for being a little salted and kept for a day or two. There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh-water fish, which may be got rid of by soaking it, after it has been thoroughly cleaned, in strong salt and water; or, if the fish is not too large, scald it in the same; then dry and dress it. Care should be taken that the fish is put into cold water, and allowed to do very gently, otherwise the outside will break before the inside is done. Crimped fish must be put into boiling water, and as soon as it boils up put a little cold water in to check the excessive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. If the fish is not taken out of the water the instant it is done it will become woolly. To ascertain when it is ready, the fish plate on which it is dressed may be drawn up, and if sufficiently done it will leave the bone. To keep it hot for serving, and to prevent it from losing its colour, the fish plate should be placed crossways over the fish kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. Small fish may be either nicely fried plain, or done over with egg or bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the fish is to be served should be placed a folded damask napkin, and upon this put the fish, with the liver and roe; then garnish the dish with horseradish, parsley, and lemon. Fish is a dish which is almost more attended to than any other.FIS [ 499 ] PIS To fry or broil fish properly, after it is well cleaned and washed it should be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when perfectly dry wetted with egg, and sprinkled all over with very fine bread crumbs a second time; then, having on the fire a thick-bottomed frying-pan with plenty of lard or dripping boiling hot, put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably quickly till it is done, and of a nice brown yellow. If it is done before it has obtained a nice brown colour the pan should be drawn to the side of the firo, the fish carefully taken up, and placed either upon a sieve turned upwards, or on the under side of a dish, and placed before the fire to drain and finish browning. If wanted particularly nice a sheet of writing paper must be put to receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a much finer colour than when done in lard or dripping. Butter should never be used, as it gives a bad colour. Garnish your dish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with fried parsley. When fish is to be broiled it must be seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean gridiron, which, when hot, should be rubbed over with suet to hinder the fish fi'om sticking. It must be broiled over a very clear fire to prevent its tasting smoky, and great care must be taken not to scorch it. FISH: To Bake. All white fish may be seasoned whole as above, nicked, larded with eel, oysters, parsley, lemon-peel, and farced (the farces must be cooked) with fish, veal, or vegetables, and baked in stock and wine, or butter, basting them continually. FISH : To Boil in Braise Maigke. Take a kettle of a sufiicient size, put into it a bit of butter, with a little vegetable soup, a little thyme, sweet basil, garlic, parsley, scallions, cloves, some slices of onions and carrots, salt, pepper, and sufiicient white wine; tie the head of the fish up properly, or any other part, and put it into the kettle with these ingredients ; take care that it does not swim, put it upon a slow fire, and cover it with a buttered paper, taking care to wet or baste it from time to time with its own sauce. Taste if it is properly seasoned. When the fish is sufficiently done take part of the sauce, run it through a gauze search, and reduce it to a jelly to glaze the fish. FISH : To Carve. In helping fish take care not to break the flakes, which in cod and salmon are particularly large, and make a fine appear- ance. A fish knife, therefore, divides it best, because it is not sharp. Help some of the roe, melt, or liver to each person. The heads of carp, part of those of cod and salmon, also cod's sounds, and the fins of turbot, being by many deemed great niceties, must be distributed accordingly. Cod's Head and Shodldees. These should be cut with a large spoon, or rather, a fish trow.^1. The parts about the backbone or shoulders arc the firmest and most esteemed. Take a piece off quite to the bone, from abed, inserting the spoon or trowel at a c, and with each slice give a piece of the sound that lines the fish be- neath the backbone, the meat of which is thinner and somewhat darker than the body. To get at this pass a spoon in the direction d f. Eels. These are cut into pieces through the bone, and the thickest parts are reckoned tho best. Lobsters. They are seldom sent to table whole, and therefore nothing more need be said than that the tail is the prime part, and next to that the claws. Mackerel. Nothing more is requisite than to strip the fish down from the tail to the gills in the direction a b c, avoiding the meat about the latter, as being blackish and ill tasted. It is common to ask whether a preference is given to a hard or soft roe. Salmon. One part of a salmon is much fatter and richer than the other. It is common, therefore, to give to those who like both a thin slice of each. For the one cut it out of the belly part in the direction a b, which is the fattest; and for those who prefer the more fleshy cut it from the back in the line c d. Salmon with small heads and thick in the neck are the bestFIS FIS [ 500 ] Soles. These are sent to table either fried or boiled; but in either case they should be cut right through the middle, bone and all, and a piece of about a third or fourth part of the fish given to each guest; but the distribution must be regulated by the size and other circum- stances. Plaice and other fish may be divided in the same manner. TuRBOT. Insert the fish knife or trowel into the middle of the fish over the backbone, and take out as much as will lie conveniently thereon from one side close to the bones. The thickest part is deemed the best, but not too near either the head or tail; and when the meat oir one side is removed raise the whole backbone with a knife and fork, after which you may serve from the under side. FISH: To Fey in Batter. The batter required for fish ought to be light, for if very thick it often gets heavy, and the fish is ill done. Make the batter of ale or milk, with the white of eggs, or rather more white than yolk ; dry the fish well, dip it into the batter, and fry it a very nice colour. If a little more batter is wanted dip the fish again into it, and put it into a frying-pan to colour. Parmesan or any other seasoning may be put in at the second dipping. All fried and boiled fish must be served up on a napkin or crisped parsley. FISH : To Pickle. Cut the fish into proper pieces, do not take off the scales, and make a brine strong enough to bear an egg, in which boil the fish. It must be boiled in only just liquor enough to cover it. Do not overboil it. When the fish is boiled lay it slantingly to drain off all the liquor. When cold pack it closely in the kits, and fill them up with equal parts of the liquor the fish was boiled in (having first well skimmed it), and best vinegar ; let it rest for a day, fill up again, striking the sides of the kits with a cooper's adze until they will re- ceive no more, and then head them down as closely as possible. FISH: To Scallop. Flake the fish, and imbed it in bread crumbs moistened with thin melted butter or cream, flavoured with any ap- proved sauce ; cover the top thickly with bread crumbs, lay bits of butter over, and bake it either before the fire or in a Dutch oven; or lay the fish in the bottom of the dish, with a rich white sauce of cream, and cover the top only with bread crumbs. FISH: To Stew. ' When the fish has been properly washed lay it in a stewpan, with half a pint of claret or port wine, a quart of good gravy, a large onion, a dozen berries of black pepper, the same of allspice, and a few cloves or a bit of mace; cover the fish kettle closely, and let it stew gently for ten or twenty minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Take the fish up, lay it on a hot dish, and cover it over ; thicken the liquor it was stewed in with a little flour, and season it with pepper, salt, essence of an- chovy, mushroom catsup, and a little chilli vinegar. When it has boiled ten minutes strain it through a tamis, and pour it over the fish. If there is more sauce than the dish will hold send the rest up in a boat. FISH, ASPIC OF. Put some warm savory jelly, about an inch and a half deep, into a plain tin or copper mould ; then take fresh smelts turned round, boil them gently in strong salt and water till done, and lay them on a drainer. When the savory jelly in the mould is quite cold put the smelts upon it, with the best side downwards; then put a little more jelly just lukewarm over the fish, and when that is cold fill the mould with more of the same kind. When it is to be served to table dip the mould in warm water, put the dish upon a jelly, and turn it over. FISH CAKE. Cut the meat from the bones, and put them, the head, and fins over the fire to stew for gravy, with a pint of water, an onion, herbs, pepper, and salt. Mince the meat; put to it one-third part crumbs of bread, a little minced onion, parsley, pepper, salt, and a very small piece of mace; mix well, and make it into a cake with white of egg and a little melted butter ; cover it with raspings, and fry it a pale brown, keeping a plate on the top while doing ; then lay it in a stewpan with fish gravy, and stew it gently fifteen minutes; turn it twice, but with great care not to break it; cover it closely while stewing. FISH, CASSEROLE OF. Take any kind of cold fish, and divide it into large flakes ; boil two or three eggs hard, and cut them in slices ; have also some mashed potatoes; butter a mould, and put in the fish, eggs, and potatoes, with a little delicate seasoning of white pepper; moisten the whole with cream or thin melted butter, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies; boil the mould and turn it out. FISH CATSUP. Take rather more than a pint of vinegar, three pints of red port, two table-spoonsful of pepper pounded very finely, plenty of shallots and horseradish, the peel of half a lemon, two or three bay leaves, and ] lb. of anchovies. Let the whole boil together until the anchovies are dissolved, then strain, and when cold put it into bottles. Two or three spoonsful are sufficient for a pound of butter. FISH CONSOMME. Take carp, tench, perch, eels, pike, and other fresh-water fish of the same kind ; clean them well, cut them into pieces as nearly of a size as may be, and lay them in a stewpan on a layer of sliced onions and carrots. As soon as they begin to sweatFIS FIS [ 501 ] put in a piece of butter, and leave them for a quarter of an hour; moisten tliera with fish broth, and let them boil gently for an hour; keep the pan closely covered. This will afford a very nourishing broth. FISH CROQUETTES. Take dressed fish of any kind, separate it from the bones, mince it with a little seasoning, an egg beaten with a tea-spoonful of flour, and one of milk; roll it into balls; brush the outside with egg, and dredge well with bread crumbs ; fry them of a nice colour. The bones, heads, and tails, with an onion, an anchovy, and a pint of water, stewed together, will make the gravy. Lobsters make delicate croquettes, in which case the shell should be broken and boiled down for the gravy. FISH CURRY is invariably made with a plain smooth sauce, either dark or yellow, so that the fish may be fried brown or white, with force balls, fresh or pickled oysters, or auy other shell fish. If it is for a principal dish it looks better to be served with a few slices or junks of fish in it; but this the cook can regulate, as the dressing is the same. The rice may be dished as a deep border, and for variety may be some- times washed over with yolks of eggs, but real curry eaters will not relish it. Should it be so dished a napkin must be dressed on a larger dish, and the curry dish put in it. If the napkin is puffed up nicely it looks handsome, as any- thing helped from the edges of a dish is apt to fall over and soil the cloth. FISH CURRY PIE. The curry ought always to be prepared for pies and cooled, or it is much better if dressed the day before, or any left curry will answer better than one newly made. Put it into a nice puff paste covered with a thin cover, set round closely with long leaves, with the points upwards, and a deep border round, with leaves falling down from the top. A pastry formed in this way is very handsome. Plain boiled rice and curry sauce, or curried rice, must be served with it. FISH CUTLETS. Take any fish previously dressed, cut it in pieces, and mix with a little good stock, and any fish sauce which may have been left from table; spread it on a flat dish; brush it with egg, and sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs; cut it out in cutlets, and fry brown. FISH, ENTR]&E OF. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter, strew grated Parmesan cheese over the bottom about an inch thick, and put a layer of boiled macaroni of the same thickness, and upon that fish of whatever sort you please, boned, cut into pieces, and strewed with herbs, such as parsley, thyme, and shallots, chopped very finely, a little pounded spices and Cayenne pepper, then a layer of macaroni and Parmesan cheese. Put it into a moderate oven, and let it bake one hour ; then carefully turn it out of the mould into a dish, and serve it to table with a little good cullis round it. FISH, FAT FOR FRYING. Carefully pick 10 lbs. of beef suet. When ready put it into an iron kettle to melt; as soon as it is melted add 5 lbs. of fresh butter and 3 lbs. of hog's lard. The moment the whole is in a boiling state throw in two turnips, four carrots, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley, six shallots, a small bit of thyme, two bay leaves, and a little sweet basil. Let the herbs and roots fry till they are fried up. Strain the melted fat through a sieve, and when nearly cold stir in some bay salt and some whole pepper, and put it into jars for use. The oftener this grease is used the better it becomes. To fry fish nicely the frying-pan should always be full, and the fat strained into the jar the moment the process of frying is concluded. FISH FILLETS. Take any white fish, bone, split, and cut it into handsome fillets, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them ; make a fine forcemeat of lobsters or shrimps, lay it thickly on the fillets, roll them up, and tie or skewer them; put them into a fish gravy, and bake them in an oven. When done thicken the gravy, and serve up the fish in it. FISH, FLAT (Au Gratin). Cleanse, wash, and dry the fish; then melt some good butter, and put it into the dish which you intend for table, adding parsley, leeks, mushrooms (all chopped finely), salt, and pepper. Place the fish on these ingredients, and strew them again with the same, adding half a glass of white wine; cover the dish, and put it in an oven. When they are done serve with a thick sauce. They may also be breaded, and browned in the oven or by a salamander. FiSH FORCEMEAT. Take 2 ozs. of tur- bot, soles, lobsters, shrimps, and oysters, free from skin, as much of fresh butter, 1 oz. of bread crumbs, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a little shallot, gi'ated lemon-peel, and parsley minced finely; pound the whole together, and, when thoroughly mixed and smooth, season with salt and Cayenne ; then break in the yolk and white of one egg, rub them well together, and it will be ready for use. Oysters parboiled and minced finely, with an anchovy, may also be added. FISH, FRICASSEED. Salt fish that has been boiled and left until cold is an excellent dish when warmed. Break it into flakes, and put them into a pan with a sauce made thus :— Beat boiled parsnips in a mortar, then add a cup of cream, a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a little white pepper, and half a tea- spoonful of mustard, all simmered together.¥13 [ fi Keep the fish no longer on the fire than to become hot, but not boil. FISH FRITTERS. Make a light force- meat with fish of any kind; then put a small quantity into pieces of puff paste the size of a common puff, fry them in boiling lard, and drain them dry. Serve them to table with truffles or bechamel sauce round them. FISH, GLAZE OF. Take some fish broth, to which add an eel cut in pieces, and the heads, tails, fins, and large bones of either sea or river fish; wash them perfectly clean, and chop them into small pieces. When they have been boiling in the broth for about an hour strain off the liquor, and reduce it to a jelly, which is used to glaze all sorts of maigre dishes. FISH GRAVY (1). Cut two or three little fish of any kind into small pieces; put them into a saucepan with rather more water than will cover them, a bit of toasted bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-peel, whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let these simmer gently till the gravy is rich and good; brown a little bit of butter in a stewpan, and when it is browned strain the gravy into it, and let it boil for a few minutes. FISH GRAVY (2). Skin two or three eels or some flounders, and gut and wash them thoroughly; cut them into small pieces, put them into a saucepan, cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a little horseradish (about a tea- spoonful); cover closely, and let all simmer; add a bit of butter and some flour, and boil with the above. FISH JELLY. Eub lightly the bottom of a saucepan with butter, cover it with sliced onions and carrots, and then add the remains and carcasses of fish, a little parsley and scallions, a bay leaf, thyme, sweet basil, and a clove of garlic. To these ingredients add a ladleful of fish soup, let it boil, put it upon a hot hearth or table, and let it simmer until it becomes a jelly; again add to it some fish soup, pour it off clear into a clean saucepan, and let it simmer another hour; run it through a napkin, reduce it to a jelly, and use it for glazing. FISH MATELOTE BOURGEOISE. A matelote is generally composed of several sorts of fish, such as carp, eel, barbel, and small pike. Scale, gut, and cut them into pieces ; put into a stewpan a bunch of mixed herbs, composed of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf, with chives, three cloves, and some cloves of garlic; put the fish on this seasoning, pour on some good red wine and as much gravy or bouillon, adding salt and pepper; set the stewpan on the fire, and let it simmer twenty minutes. Put into another )2 ] FIS stewpan a good piece of butter, twenty button onions, and let them take a fine light colour; add two spoonsful of flour, and pour in some fish liquor strained through a sieve ; add some mushrooms stewed in butter, with a dash of vinegar or lemon, and a little water. When the matelote sauce is reduced to a proper con- sistency, and the onions are done, dress the fish, masking it with this ragout. Garnish the dish with crusts fried in butter, and small crayfish. FISH MATELOTE A LA MARINlfiRE. Clean the fish as above, take a kettle propor- tioned to the quantity of fish, and put at the bottom of it a bunch of mixed herbs, of thyme, chives, a bay leaf, parsley, a score of small onions, three cloves, a few mushrooms, some cloves of garlic cut or bruised, some good red wine, pepper, and salt. Half an hour before serving hang the kettle on the hook over a flaming fire ; at the moment it boils add half a glass of brandy, some pieces of butter rolled in flour, and stir it a little to thicken. It ought to catch fire, and it is only the quickness of the operation which renders the fish firm and of good^ flavour. The sauce being reduced to its proper thickness, lay the fish in the dish, omit- ting the bunch of herbs, and garnish the mate- lote with a crust of toasted bread. Pour the mushrooms and the onions over the fish as well as the sauce; some crayfish may also be added. FISH MATELOTE VIERGE. Take a carp, an eel, a pike, or a barbelgut and scale them, and cut off their fins; skin the eel, and cut up the whole into pieces, which put into a stewpan, with a bunch of mixed herbs ; add seasoning, two-thirds of white wine and one of water, and put in a piece of butter; let the whole boil up, and take it off the fire. Fry some button onions and mushrooms in butter ; add a little sugar, pepper, nutmeg, two or three spoonsful of flour, and a little liquor from the fish. When the ragout is done dress the fish in the middle of the dish; thicken the ragout with yolks of eggs. With the sauce mask the onions and mushrooms, placed round with some fried crusts and crayfish. FISH PATTIES. Take a carp, a tench, and an eel, and boil them a little; half stew six oysters; pick the flesh from the bones of the fish, and beat it together in a mortar with the melts of the fish, some mace, and some white wine; make some rich puff paste, line the tins with it, and then put in the forcemeat, with one oyster and a bit of butter ; put on the top, and bake them. FISH PIE (1). Clean and cut fresh sal- mon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon, or haddocks into moderate-sized pieces ; then roll them into a mixture made of parsley, thyme, and shallots, chopped finely, some beaten spices, powder ofL 603 J FIS FIS mushroom or truffles, pepper, and salt; put them Into a deep dish, with some light force- niedt round, and cover with puff paste ; egg and ornament the top with leaves of paste ; bake it till the fish is perfectly done, and a quarter of an hour before it is sent to table put in some good strong cullis, with a little Madeira added to it. FISH PIE (3). Take any kind of fish you please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, &c., scale it, and cut it into pieces ; then line a pie dish with crust, and put the fish into it, with a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, bruised spices, and a layer of butter at the top; after this put on the top, and let it bake for an hour and a half. When done take off the fat, and put in a good vegetable ragout made in the following manner;—Stir a little flour with butter over the fire till it is of a fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half a pint of white wine, some soupe maigre, or warm water, and add mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Let the whole boil half an hour, and then add the soft roes of carp parboiled; let them stew a quarter of an hour, and then put the ragout into the pies. Any sort of vegetable ragout may be made use of instead of the above in these pies, such as truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads of asparagus. FISH PIE, MAIGRE. Bono and cut into pieces a carp, make it into forcemeat with some of the roe, parsley, thyme, shallots chopped very finely, I lb. of fresh butter, salt, a little pounded spice, half a pint of cream, four eggs, and the crumb of a French roll. Afterwards take pieces of eel, salmon, and skate, and pass them with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a bit of butter. When they are cold put some of the forcemeat at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix with the fish some stewed mushrooms, the very smallest onions, truffles, and morels blanched, and the roe cut into pieces, and put them into the dish, with some forcemeat round the top; then cover with puff paste, ornament with leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When it is to be served to table cut a small hole in the centre of the top, and pour in some good cullis. FISH RfiCHAUFFfi (1). After pike, cod, skate, turhot, soles, or any other white fish has been dressed, pick it from the bones into small pieces; add to 1 lb. of fish, or in the same pro- portion, half a pint of good cream, one table- spoonful of mustard, the same of anchovy essence, the same of catsup and Harvey's sauce, a little flour, some salt, pepper, and butter; make the whole hot in the saucepan, put it into the dish in which it is to be served up, strew crumbs of bread over it, and baste it with butter till it is a little moist; then brown it with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. A wall of mashed potatoes round the dish is aji improve- ment. FISH RfiCHAUFFfi (2). Pick from the bone in large flakes about 211)8. of cold salmon, cod fish, or soles; melt ^ lb. of butter in half a pint of cream, with a little flour and salt; add the fish, and heat it thoroughly. FISH SALAD, SAUCE FOR. Pound loz. of scraped horseradish, and add thereto i oz. of salt, a table-spoonful of made mustard, 4 drachms of shred shallots, J drachm of celery seed bruised, and the same quantity of Cayenne; put to these a pint of bumet or tarragon vinegar, and let the whole stand in a jar for a week, at the end of which time strain it off for use. FISH, SALT. Salted fish requires soaking according to the time it has been in salt. That which is hard and dry requires two nights' soaking, changing the water two or three times: in the intermediate time lay it on a stone floor. Barreled cod requires less soaking; and for the best Dogger Bank split fish, which has not been in salt more than a fortnight or three weeks, still less soaking will be necessary. FISH, SALT : To Dress. Lay the piece you mean to dress all night in water, with a glass of vinegar, and boil it enough; then break it into flakes on the dish, warm it up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a little flour, and serve with egg sauce. FISH SAUCE. Take some mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your fish; put it into a saucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of catsup, and a glass of white wine; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. If you cannot procure cream, instead of white wine you must use red. FISH SAUCE WITHOUT BUTTER. Set over the fire a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (the water must not be hard), simmer very gently, with an onion, half a handful of horseradish, four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. These spices should be slightly bruised. When the onion is quite tender chop it small with a couple of anchovies, and set the whole to boil for a few minutes with a spoonful of catsup. In the meantime have ready, and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when they are well mixed set the saucepan over a moderate fire, holding a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the sauce- pan over the fire to prevent the eggs from curdling. Do not boil them, but only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of meltied butter. FISH SAUCE A LA CRASTEE. ThickenFIS ns [ 504 ] i lb. of butter with flour, and brown it; then add to it 1 lb. of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of mace pounded, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, some savory, thyme, basil, knotted marjoram, a little parsley, and sliced horse- radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy; simmer the whole gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it into bottles for use. The proper way to use it is by putting some of it into the butter while melting. FISH SAUCE, DUTCH. Put i\h. of butter into four spoonsful of water, dredge in a little flour, chop three anchovies, add two spoonsful of vinegar, scrape a little horseradish, and boil the whole together; then strain it through a sieve, and send it up hot. FISH SAUCE, EXCELLENT. Put a pint of remarkably fine port wine into a tin saucepan, with a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut catsup, twelve anchovies, with the liquor belonging to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shallots, some Cayenne pepperaccordingto taste, 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard. Let the whole boil gently till the rawness is taken off; then put it into small bottles for use. They must be corked very closely, and sealed at the top. FISH SAUCE, WHITE. Simmer to the quantity required an anchovy, a glass of white wine, a bit of horseradish, two or three blades of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pint of water; strain it, put in two spoonsful of cream, and a large piece of butter mixed well with some flour, and keep stirring till it boils; add a little catsup, and squeeze in a little lemon juice •when off the fire. More wine may be added if agreeable. FISH SAUSAGES. Prepare in the same proportions as for pork sausages, pound, and fill into eel skins, or roll and glaze them, or crum them with grated ham, bacon, Parmesan or any other cheese, with a little sugar and nut- meg or cloves. These are handsome supper or breakfast dishes; but all such sausages look better in balls, or a little flattened, and served hot in a napkin. FISH, SEASON FOR. Upon this subject we know of no better authority than the Fish- mongers' Company. In their hall are eight excellent paintings of fish, with the dates of their being in season. They are as follows :— No. I. 1. A codlin, November, December, January. 2. A Scotch lobster, October. 3. A barbel, September. 4. A good jack pike, in most monthai ' 5. A maid, all the year. 6. A gi-ey mullet, October. 7. A sole, all the year. 8. A red gurnet, September and October. 9. The gold and silver eel, all the year. 10. The larger river flounder, March, August, December, January. 11. A tench, November and December. 19. A small roach, January and September. 13. A small dace, January and September. 14. A green smelt, September. 15. A gudgeon, most months. 16. A lamprey, September. 17. A dab, October, November, December, January. 18. A small river flounder, most months. 19. A horse-mackerel, September. 20. A common mackerel, September. 21. A Feversham oyster, from October to January. No. IT. 1. A turbot, March and most months. 2. A haddock, October, November, December, 3. A sea crab, March, April, May. 4. A green river carp, January. 5. A sea crayfish, November, April, May. 6. A whiting, October, November, December, 7- A perch, October. 8 A herring, May, June, September. 9. A Scotch haddock, November. 10. A shrimp, all the year. 11. A cockle, December, January, February. 12. A Colchester oyster, from October to February. No. III. 1. A cod, November, December, January, February. 2. A ling, November and December. 3. A river pike, most months. 4. A sea flounder, December, January, Febru- ary, March. 5. A weaver, December. 6. A pouting, November, December. 7. A char, December, Januaiy, February, March. 8. A scallop, in mackerel season. 9. A green Walfleet oyster, November, De- cember, January. 10. A muscle, December. 11. A sprat, November, December, January. No. IV. 1. A halibut, January, February, March 2. A golden pond carp, most months. 3. A greyling or Humber, January. 4. A golden smelt, January. 5. A chub, February.FIS FIS I 505 ] 6. A roach, most months. 7. Large dace, February. 8. Large roach, February. 9. A cole fish, January. 10. A grey-lump, January. 11. A Milton oyster, November, December, January. 12. A white Walfleet, November, December, January. No. V. 1. A salmon, from November to July. 2. A lamper eel, April. 3. A plaice, most months. 4. A bass, March. 5. The allis, March. 6. A red-lump, December and January. 7. A guard-fish. May. 8. A pilchard, April and October. 9. A bream, February. 10. A silver smelt, March. 11. A sea tench, March. 12. A Willis, March. No. VI. 1. A river trout, from February to August. 2. A thoniback, all the year. 3. A black lobster, June. 4. A smeerdab, August. 5. A silver eel, most months. 6. A Kingston, March. 7. A homeling, September. 8. A river coney-fish, December. 9. A sea perch, February. 10. A bleak, most months. 11. A grig, most months. No. VII. 1. A sturgeon, most monthg. 2. A salmon trout, from February to August. 3. A beautiful large mackerel, May and June. 4. A fireflair, April. 5. A pope, most months. 6. A red prawn, most months. 7. A white prawn. May. 8. A brown shrimp, or bunting, May and De- cember. 9. A river crab, May. 10. A shad, May. 11. A periwinkle. May and June. No. VIII. 1. A Joanna Doree, August. 2. A skate, most months. 3. A river crayfish, most months. 4. A red mullet, May, June, July. 5. A brill, September. 6. A sea eel, or conger, most months. 7. A ruff, August. 8. A grey gurnet, gurnard gurney, September. 9. Post, or miller's thumb, November. 10. A right anchovy, the beginning of July. FISH SOUP. Take pieces of different sorts of fish, such as salmon, skate, sole, &c. sweat them till tender with turnip, onion, celery, a clove of garlic, and a blade of mace ; then add some plain veal broth. Simmer the whole together for half an hour; then strain and skim it free from fat, season with salt and Cayenne pepper, clear it with white of egg, and colour it with a little saffron. It may be served to table with celery or rice in it. FISH STOCK : To Make. Take 1 lb. of skate, four or five flounders, and 2 lbs. of eels ; clean them well, cut them into pieces, cover the whole with water, and season with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two roots of parsley sliced, and some sweet herbs. Let the composition simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain off for use. FISH, TAINTED: To Core. Boil the fish in plenty of water, in which put one-fourth vinegar, some salt, and some powdered charcoal tied in linen. This will remove the bad taste of meat as well as fish. FISH, TAMAPJND. Take any quantity of salmon, split it down the back, take out the bone, and score it in the way fish is crimped ; sprinkle finely powdered salt over it, and leave it three days; wash, and hang it out in the sun. Dissolve some acid tamarinds in vinegar, and strain off the liquor; cut the fish into small pieces, and wrap them round covered with the tamarinds, which must not be too liquid ; press them into a jar, tie them over with a blad- der, and leave them fifteen or twenty days in a dry place, when they will be fit for use. Wash and dry the fish well, fry it in butter, and send hot rice to table with it. It keeps a long time. FISH, TUREEN OF. Take fresh-water fish of any kind, or different sorts together. If they be dressed en gras stew them with a few slices of ham and veal, a little broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, one of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a few slices of bacon, pepper, and salt. When done drain them from the liquor, and put the fish in a tureen; add a little cullis to their broth, skim it, sift it in a sieve, and serve upon the fish. You may add what sort of ragout you choose. FISTULA. Ulcers in the neighbourhood of the anus are peculiarly liable to become fistulous, and when in that state are very difficult to cure. A fistula is frequently the consequence of neglected or ill-treated piles. The presence of this complaint is discovered by the sensation of a pricking pain on going to stool, which is also perceived during the exertion of coughing or sneezing. On examination a stain of a pale colour, occasionally accompanied with a little[ 500 ] FIS FLA blood, will be found upon the Hnen, and the feces arc also slightly streaked with matter. This matter issues from a small ulcer, with one or more orifices, in the neighbourhood of the anus, tlie other extremity of which generally com- municates with the internal cavity of the rectum. When this disease is ascertained to be present costiveness should be guarded against chiefly by means of diet, which ought to be cooling, and consist of ripe figs, roasted apples, and articles of a similar nature. Oatmeal porridge, eaten with milk or beer for breakfast or supper, rarely fails to keep the body regular. The radical cure of this complaint must depend on the proper application of topical remedies. Much may be done by strict attention to personal cleanliness. The parts should be carefully washed with a sponge and water several times a day, and regularly after going to stool. Stimulant injections—as, for example, a solution of corrosive sublimate, or of common culinary salt, tincture of cantharides, or port wine thrown into the fistula by means of a small syringe, or elastic gum bottle furnished with a conical point—have, when duly persisted in, effected a cure ; or the orifice of the fistula may lie kept open, and a free passage given to the contained matter, by means of a tent or bougie shaped like a cone, and the ulcer be thus disposed to heal. This disease has also been attempted to be cured by introducing a bougie or flexible leaden probe into the fistula, passing it through the orifice that communicates with the rectum, and bringing it out at the anus; then twisting the two oppo- site extremities together, and occasionally tightening them, till they destroy the inter- posed substance, when the fistula, being re- duced to the state of a simple ulcer, heals. Drinking any sulphureous mineral water, such as that of Harrowgate, improves the constitution in general, and by that means tends to promote the healing of the ulcer. In cold, languid, and what are termed phlegmatic habits, tar water may be taken with considerable advantage. We knew an instance of a fistulous sore, seated near the rectum, being almost healed up by taking regularly half a pint of sea water morning and evening for six weeks together, and believe it might have been completely cured had the person persisted in this course for a sufficient length of time. It is certainly worth while to give any of these remedies a fair trial previously to having recourse to the operation, as even that does not always succeed. Ulcerations about the rectum are frequently eymptomatic of aifections of the liver. When that is known to be the case, or when they occur about the decline of life, or in persons who have resided long in warm climates, wo should not be too busy with our efforts to heal them up. In such persons they seem fre- quently to operate as salutary drains to the constitution, and to prevent the access of other diseases. Many examples have occurred of persons somewhat advanced in life being at- tacked by asthma, spitting of blood, paralysis, and even insanity, within a short period of time after undergoing the operation for the radical cure of a fistula; while others, of apparently similar constitutions, who have submitted to the inconveniency of a discharge, and been attentive to keep the parts clean and warm, have lived to an advanced period of life. In- dividuals past the meridian of life, who deter- mine to undergo the operation for fistula, should never omit to have an issue opened in some other part of the body, which may serve as a succedaneum for the natural drain they are about to obliterate. The medical treatment of fistula in ano will depend on their cause. If they arise from costiveness the remedies are obvious; if from disease of the liver, calomel and saline purges ; if from disease of the chest, as dropsy, it is difficult to say what medicine ought to be recommended. It is of great importance, how- ever, to give such medicines as will bring the fistula into a healthy state. With this view the balsam of copaiba may be given with advantage. If there be much irritation give soda, which has great efficacy in diminishing the irritability of the rectum. Aromatic medi- cines should be given, especially that which used to go by the name of Ward's paste, having been found by experience to produce excellent effects in this disease:—Take of pepper 2 drachms; elecampane and fennel seeds, of each ^ oz. These are to be mixed up with honey in the form of an electuary, of which a tea-spoonful is to be taken two or three times a day. This soon brings the fistula into a healing state ; healthy granulations shoot up from the surface; and the discharge, instead of being serous or bloody, consists of good pus. Calomel and saline purges should be occa- sionally given during the use of these aromatic medicines, with a view of promoting the secre- tions of the liver and intestines. FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. See Eye, Wateet, or Weeping, FITS. See Convulsions and Epilepsy. FLANNEL. This is unquestionably one of the most useful articles of wearing apparel, and it is much to be regretted that it is not more generally worn, as we are fully persuaded that it would be the means of preventing many diseases.C 50T ] FLA FLA The principal objection to the wearing of flannel appears to be that it irritates the skin, and occasions disagreeable sensations. These, however, continue only for a few days, and the subsequent advantages thence resulting amply compensate for such temporary uneasiness. Both young and aged would derive from it equal advantages. We do not, however, mean to in- sinuate that flannel next the skin should be universally and indiscriminately worn by infants and young persons, though it is an ill-founded assertion of its adversaries that it has a tendency to produce eruptions, as it ev-idently opens the pores, promotes perspiration, and thus removes the principal cause of cutaneous diseases that originate from an obstructed and irregular state of the skin. There are, however, certain cases in which flannel cannot with strict propriety be used as an under dress. In order to enable the reader to ascertain whether its constant use be ad- visable or not we shall point out the leading circumstances which may, in this respect, in- fluence his determination. It is a salutary dress to all those, in general, who have passed the meridian of life, or the thirty-fifth year of their age, though they may not have been ac- customed to it from their infancy; to persons of a cold and phlegmatic habit, or leading a sedentary life ; to such as are subject to fits of the gout, rheumatism, frequent colds, and catarrhs ; to individuals very susceptible of impressions connected with the vicissitudes of air, weather, and climate, as well as to nervous patients, and those who have recently recovered from severe chronical diseases. On the contrary, the wearing of flannel next the skin may be injurious to constitutions so organised that they are liable to profuse perspiration on taking even moderate exercise ; or to those who are already afflicted with scorbutic or other eruptions of the skin or, lastly, to all such irritable and whimsical persons as possess neither bodily nor mental vigour sufficient to overcome tlie first uneasy sensations which it occasions. But we are fully warranted to assert, from daily experience, that the habitual use of this beneficent texture has essentially contributed to the recovery of number- less rickety childi-en, not less than to the saving of others who were born of feeble and enervated parents. In short, there is every reason to believe that a more general adoption of this salutiferous cloth might prevent many fatal inflammations of the throat, breast, lungs, &c., to which the poorer class of people are re- markably liable, and thus preserve the lives of multitudes who now become a prey to our damp and variable climate. Flannel should be washed in cold water mixed with a little ox or sheep-gall. If washed in hot water and with 6oap it shrinks and becomes yellow coloured. To prevent it becoming yellow we have, nevertheless, the following recom- mendation :—Mix four table-spoonsful of flour with four quarts of water, and put it to boil, stirring the whole time. When thoroughly boiled put the flannel articles into a tub, and pour over them half the quantity of this liquid in a boiling state. When the water in the tub has become cold enough to enable you to bear your hand in it wash the flannels in the usual way, but without using soap ; rinse in three or four waters, and having let them drain as much as possible, replace them in the tub, and pour over the remainder of the liquid boiling hot. When cool wash out as before, rinse them well, and hang out to dry without wringing. FLANS. Pare and cut in quarters twelve fine rennet apples ; put them on the fire, with 4 ozs. of butter and 4 ozs. of sugar, or what has been rasped on the zest of a citron or lemon; cook the apples half, and let them cool. Make 6 ozs. of flour into a fine paste; mould and roll it out eleven inches , dress it up two inches all round, which will leave it seven inches over ; put it on an oven leaf; pinch or decorate it lightly round the edge , put the quarters of the apples round which are most done; pour over the syi-up; bind the paste with a strong buttered paper; dress the other apples carefully over; put it into a quick oven. When it has been in three quarters of an hour take off the band, and glaze the crust tenderly; return it for some minutes into the oven, and then strew the crust with sugar finely powdered ; glaze it at a little flame in the mouth of the oven, and when it is to be served mask it with some spoonsful of apricot, apple, or simple syrup. If to be served cold make it without butter. Flans may be made of all fruits; none but apples take butter. They are elegant dishes. Flans may also be made with crime patissiere and others. FLATULENCY, or Wind. All nervous patients, without exception, are afflicted with wind and flatulencies in the stomach and bowels, which arise chiefly from the want of tone or vigour in these organs. Crude flatulent aliment, as green peas, beans, coleworts, cabbages, and such-like, may increase this complaint; but strong and healthy people are seldom troubled with wind unless they either overload their stomachs, or drink liquors that are in a fermenting state, and consequently full of elastic air. While, therefore, the matter of flatulence proceeds from our aliments, the cause which makes air separate from them in such quantity as to occasion complaints is almost always a fault of the bowels themselves, which are too weak either to prevent the production of elastic air, or to expel it after it is produced.FLE FLA [ 508 ] To relieve this complaint such medicines ought to be used as have a tendency to expel wind, and, by strengthening the alimentary canal, to prevent its being produced there. Many nervous people find great benefit from eating a dry biscuit, especially when the stomach is empty. We look upon this as one of the best carminative medicines, and would recommend it in all complaints of the stomach arising from flatulence, indigestion, &c. The list of medicines for expelling wind is very numerous; they often, however, disap- point the expectations of both the physician and his patient. The most celebrated among the class of carminatives are juniper berries; the roots of ginger and zedoary; the seeds of anise, caraway, and coriander; gum asafoetida and opium ; the warm waters, tinctures, and spirits, as the aromatic water, the tincture of wood-soot, the volatile aromatic spirit, ether, &c. With some patients m medicine is more efficacious in expelling wind than ether and laudanum. Give the laudanum in a mixture with peppermint water and tincture of castor, or sweet spirits of nitre: sometimes, in place of this, opium in pills, with asafcetida. The good effects of opiates are equally conspicuous, whether the flatulence be contained in the stomach or intestines; whereas those warm medicines, commonly called carminatives, do not often give immediate relief except when the wind is in the stomach. The dose of ether is a tea-spoonful mixed with two table-spoonsful of water. In gouty cases, ether, a glass of French brandy, or of the aromatic water, or ginger, either taken in substance or infused in boiling water, are among the best medicines for expelling wind. When the case of flatulent patients is such as makes it improper to give them warm medi- cines inwardly, external applications are some- times of advantage. Equal parts of the anti- hysteric and stomach plaster may be spread upon a piece of soft leather, of such size as to cover the greater part of the belly. This should be kept on for a considerable time, provided the patient be able to bear it. If it should give great uneasiness it may be taken ofl^, and the following liniment used in its stead :—Take of Bate's anodyne balsam 1 oz.; of the expressed oil of mace, i oz.; oil of mint, 2 drachms. Let these ingredients be mixed together, and about a table-spoonful well rubbed on the parts at bedtime. For strengthening the stomach and bowels, and consequently for lessening the production of flatulence, Peruvian bark, bitters, chaly- beates, and exercise are good. Some nut- meg or ginger should be added to the tinc- ture of the bark and bitters, and the aromatic powder should be joined with the filings of iron. When windy complaints are attended with costiveuess, which is often the case, few things will be found to answer better than four or five of the following pills taken every night at bed- time :—Take of asafoetida 2 drachms ; Soco- trine aloes, salt of iron, and powdered ginger, of each 1 drachm; as much of the elixir pro- prietatis as will be sufficient to form them into pills. On the other hand, when the body is too open, 12 or 15 grains of rhubarb, with i drachm or 2 scruples of the Japonic confection, given every other evening, will have very good effects. With regard to diet, tea, and likewise all flatulent aliments, are to be avoided; water with a little brandy or rum is not only preferable to malt liquor, but in most cases also to wine. FLEA [Pulex irritans). Want of cleanliness remarkably contributes to the generation of fleas, as the females deposit their eggs, each from twenty to thirty, in damp and filthy places, within the crevices of boards, on rubbish, &c., whence they emerge in the course of six or eight days in the form of greasy whitish maggots. When a fortnight old they envelope themselves in a small chrysalis, from which they sally forth, after ten days' existence, in the form of fleas. In the winter these different transformations require a period of six weeks, but in summer only a month. They probably do not live longer than one year, though it is said that fleas have been kept on little golden chains for six years. As they are able to draw a weight eighty times greater than that of their own body, some frivolous persons have occasionally kept them harnessed to minia- ture carriages, &c. Leaping, also, is a singular proof of their muscular strength, as by pressing the belly downwards, expanding their legs, and then suddenly contracting them, these creatures dart forward to a distance of ten or twelve inches. Children and females are remarkably liable to the attacks of this little enemy, a circum- stance which must be attributed to their more tender skin, their purer blood, longer clothes, and in some individuals, perhaps, to a peculiar state of perspiration. Cleanliness and frequent sprinkling of the room with a simple decoction of wormwood will soon exterminate the whole breed of these troublesome vermin, and the best remedy to expel them from bedclothes is a bag filled with dry moss, the odour of which is to them extremely offensive. Others cover the floors of the rooms where fleas abound with the leaves of the alder tree while the dew is on the foliage, to which these insects fondly adhere, and thus may be easily destroyed. Mercurial ointment, sul-FLO FLE [ 509 ] phur, and fumigation with the leaves of penny- royal, or the fresh-gathered foliage of that plant sewn up in a bag, and laid in the bed, are also remedies pointed out for the expulsion of fleas. The most effectual and speedy way to get rid of fleas on dogs is to pour sweet or train oil along the back, from the top of the rump to the back of the head, rubbing the sides, haunches, and flanks well with the hand until the oil be well incorporated with the hair. If this be done properly there will not remain a living flea on the animal in ten minutes after the application. They will throw themselves out upon the surface of the hair of a yellow colour, with legs, &c., extended, and die almost instantaneously. FLEMISH SOUP. Slice six onions and twelve potatoes, and cut six heads of celery into small pieces ; put I lb. of butter into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water ; then set it over the fire to simmer for half an hour, after which fill up the saucepan with some of your best stock. Let the whole boil until the vegetables are dissolved ; then rub it through a tamis, and add to it a pint of boiled cream. FLIES. The simplest mode of destroying them, and without danger to any other living creature, is to pour half a pint of boiling water upon J oz. of quassia chips, to sweeten the liquor with sugar or treacle, and expose it in plates to the visits of the flies. FLIP, EGG. SeeEoa Flip. FLOATING ISLAND. Put a deep glass dish in one of china, sweeten a quart of thick cream with powder sugar, pour in a gill of mountain wine, and rasp thereto the yellow part of a lemon; whisk the cream, and put the thin froth into a dish. Cut some Naples biscuits very finely, put a layer of them on the cream, then a layer of currant jelly, then another of biscuit, and over that the rest of the cream. Garnish at pleasure. FLOATING ISLAND OF APPLES. Bake or scald two or three lai'ge sharp apples ; when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve ; beat the pulp with fine sugar, and the whites of three eggs that have been beaten with a little rose water ; mix it a little at a time, beat till light, and lay it on almond custard, or jelly. FLOOR CLOTHS. These are best cleaned and preserved by being dry rubbed every day, for mopping them spoils and wears them out soon, besides causing the sides to turn up. Cleaning them occasionally with milk, and dry rubbing them when dry, will make them look as bright as when new. Wax renders them sticky, and retentive of dust and dirt. FLOORS. [See Boards.) The best wood that can be selected for this purpose is yellow deal thoroughly seasoned, which, if well laid, will for a long time retain its colour; whereas tho wldte sort, by frequent washing, becomes black, and presents a disagreeable appearance. The joints of the boards are usually made plain, so as barely to touch each other; but as the materials are not always perfectly dry the boards not unfrequently shrink, and the water runs through them every time they are washed, by which the ceiling underneath is injured. To remedy this inconvenience they should always be made either with edges so as to fold over each other about half an inch, or with what is called dovetails. In the latter case the lower edge is nailed down, and the next driven into it, so that the nails are effectually concealed. To keep oak floors brown without washing strew tansy, mint, balm, fennel, or other green sweet herbs on the boards well swept, and rub thera all over the wood with a long hard brush till it is scubbed clean. When the wood or boards are quite dry the herbs should be swept off, and the boards, being well dry rubbed with a dry rubbing brush, will look like mahogany, and have an agreeable smell. Greasy spots may be taken out by laying a little ox-gall on at night, and washing them well next morning with a little brush and clean flannel, with some strong lye ; but if the spots be slight a little clay or fullers' earth will do ; or, if they be dirt or marlcs of feet, dry rubbing will remove tliera, and after these operations the boards will keep a long time bright and brown with only using a little hard brush. To polish oak floors rub them with bees' wax, and then with a hard brush loaded with lead, and fixed to a long handle. FLORENDINE OF HARE. Case a hare that has hung four or five days, leave the ears on, but take out the bones except tho»e of the head. Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, the liver chopped, ^ lb. of fat bacon scraped, a glass of red wine, one anchovy, two eggs, some winter savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Put this into the belly, roll it up to the head, and fasten it tightly; boil it in a cloth an hour and a half with two quarts of water, and when reduced to orte-half put in a pint of port wine, a spoonful of lemon pickle, and as much catsup and browning. Stew till reduced to a pint, thicken with butter rolled in flour, and lay I'ound the hare morels and slices of force- meat boiled in the caul of a joint of veal. On dishing draw the jaw-bones, and stick them in the sockets of the eyes. Let the ears lie back, and put myrtle or parsley into the mouth. Strain the sauce over it, garnish with bar- berries and parsley, and serve it hot. FLORENDINE OF VPJAL. Take two kidneys with the fat, mince thera finely, and put to them some chopped herbs, with a few curi'ants, an apple or two cut small, candiedFLO FLO [ 510 ] lemon or orange-peel, three or four hard yolks of eggs chopped finely, two or three gi-ated biscuits, or some crumbs of bread, a little beaten mace, cloves, nutmeg, and salt, with a glass of white wine and some orange-flower water. Mix the whole of these well, then lay a sheet of puff paste at the bottom of a dish, and put in the minced meat with the ingredients; cover the whole with a crust, and bake it in a slack oven. When done serve it up with sugar scraped over it. FLOUNDER PIE. Thoroughly clean some flounders, dry them in a cloth, just boil them, cut off the flesh close to the bone, lay a good crust over the dish, and a little butter at the bottom ; then put in the fish, and season -with pepper and salt to your palate. Boil the bones in the water the fish was boiled in, with a little piece of horseradish, a little parsley, a very small piece oi lemon-peel, and a crust of bread ; boil till there is just liquor enough for the pie, then strain it, and put it into a dish ; put on the top, and let it bake. FLOUNDER SOUP. Take twelve middling- sized flounders, clean them well, and boil them in as much water as will fill a tureen of a moderate size; add thereto a whole onion, some thyme, basil, parsley, horseradish, whole white pepper, and a little salt; boil the whole till dissolved, cut a small stale loaf into thin slices, and dip them into the yolks of eggs; put a piece of fresh butter into a stewpan, and fry the bread on both sides of a pale brown ; strain the soup, add to it the bread, and let it boil half an hour. In the meantime have ready a stew- pan of boiling dripping; then take six of the smallest flounders, dip them first in the yolks of eggs, and next in bread crumbs ; fry them in the dripping till sufficiently done, and lay them on the back of a sieve to drain, after which strain off the soup, and dish it up with the flounders and some pieces of fried bread. FLOUNDERS: To Boil. Put on a stew- pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover the flounders which are to be dressed, and put in some vinegar and horseradish. When the water boils put in the fish, having first well cleaned them and cut o£f their fins. They must not boil too fast for fear they should break. When they are sufficiently done lay them on a fish plate, the tails in the middle. Serve them with parsley and butter. FLOUNDERS: To Cnoose. They should be thick and stiff, their eyes bright and full, and must be dressed as fresh as possible, as they very soon become flabby and bad. They are both a sea and river fish. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. FLOUNDERS, FRICASSEED. Carefully clean the fish, and take off the black skin, but not the white ; cut the flesh from the bones into long slices, and dip them in yolk of egg ; sti'ew them over with bread raspings, and fry them in clarified butter. When they are sufficiently done lay them on a plate, and keep them hot. For sauce take the bones of the fish, and boil them in water ; then put in an anchovy, some thyme, parsley, a little pepper, salt, cloves, and mace. Let these simmer till the anchovy is dis- solved ; then take the butter the fish was fried in, put it into a pan over the fire, shake soma flour into it, and keep it stirring whilst the flour is shaldng in; then strain the liquor into it, and boil it till it becomes thick; squeeze some lemon juice into it, place the fish on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. FLOUNDERS, FRIED. Well rub them inside and out with salt, and then let them lie for two hours to give them some firmness ; dip them into egg, cover them with crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. FLOUNDERS, STEWED. Take some flounders, and fry them of a nice brown; then take them up, and add to the butter they were fried in a sufficient quantity of water to make sauce for the fish that are done—to a quart of water two anchovies and an onion cut in slices, a spoonful of catsup, and two spoons- ful of red wine. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, put it to the fish, and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour; then take them out, put them into a warm dish, and thicken the sauce with butter and flour; give it a boil, strain it off, and pour it over the fish, FLOUR. {See Beead.) We shall confine our notes entirely to the fiour of wheat. Flour ought not to be used immediately from the mill; but it should be kept in a dry place for several weeks, and stirred every day in summer, and at least every other day in colder seasons. By the mealmen in the neighbourhood of London wheat is divided into no less than seven distinct kinds of flour. The folloAving are the average proportions of these obtained from a quarter of wheat:— bills. pki5. Fine flour . . o 3 Seconds . . 0 Fine middlings . . (1 1 Coarse ditto . ; . 0 0-0 3 0 Twentv-penny . . 3 0 Pollard . . 2 0 14 2-5 Thus we see wheat almost doubles its bulk by being ground into flour. During the bolting of the flour a fine white gritty substance called sharps is obtained. It constitutes the centre and finest part of the[ 511 ] FLO FLO grain of wheat. This is partly sold to the biscuit bakers, and is employed in baking the finest kind of sea biscuit. It is partly ground again, and constitutes the finest and most valuable kind of flour. A sack of flour weighs 280 lbs., or 5 bushels, and is supposed capable of being baked into eighty loaves in the act of parliament regulating the assize of bread. According to this estimate one-fifth of the loaf consists of water and salt, the remaining four-fifths of flour; bat the fact is that the number of the quartern loaves which can be made from a sack of flour depends en- tirely on the goodness of it. Good flour requires more water than bad, and old flour than new. Sometimes eighty-two, eighty-three, or even eighty-six loaves may be made out of a sack; sometimes scarcely eighty. To ascertain the purity of flour grasp it briskly in the hand, and squeeze it for half a minute, and if it be good it preserves the form of the cavity of the hand, although it may be rudely placed upon the table. Adulterated flour, on the contrary, soon falls down. That mixed with whiting is the most adhesive, though it soon gives way; but if the adulteration be ground stones, bones, or plaster of Paris, it almost immediately falls. Dip the forefinger and thumb in a little sweet oil, and take up a small quantity of the flour between them. If it be pure it may be rubbed for any length of time, and will not become adhesive ; but if whiting be present it very speedily becomes putty, and adheres strongly. The pure flour becomes, also, of a very dark colour from the admixture mth oil; adulterated flom* is but little altered. Lemon juice or vinegar will also show the presence of whiting by the agitation which it pro- duces in the flour: pure flour produces no par- ticular effect with these fluids. The best kind of wheaten flour assumes, at the instant it is formed into a mass by the addition of water, a very gluey, ductile, and elastic paste, easy to be kneaded, and which may be elongated, flattened, and drawn in every direction without breaking. It is not easy to devise means for the destruc- tion of the insects which breed in flour ; but all flour should be kept thoroughly dry, and in casks in preference to sacks, where the method is prac- ticable. Damaged flour, termed sprit, may be effectually divested of its disagreeable flavour by mixing ground rice with it in the proportion of 1 lb., and of magnesia J oz., to 10 lbs. of flour, and the usual quantity of yeast and water, keep- ing the mixture before the fire for the space of two hours, and then making it into bread in the usual way. The flour bin, or whatever vessel the flour is kept in, should be cleaned with boiling water very often. This checks the production of mites and mouldiness. The bin must be dried thoroughly before flour is put into it. The following economical additions to flour for bread- making are all excellent. It is necessary to premise that in using maize or potatoes the oven ought to be less heated than for barley or oats, and least so in the case of potatoes. 1. Half maize and half barley, with a leaven of wheat flour one-fifth of the total weight. 3. Half wheat flour and half maize. A more agreeable and better bread it is impossible to eat. 3. Half oatmeal and half barley, with a leaven of wheat flour of rather more than one-fifth. 4. Equal parts oatmeal and wheat flour; excellent. •5. Barley flour, with one-fifth its weight of wheat leaven ; bread white and well tasted. 6. Barley and rye, or barley and wheat, in equal quantities. This last is equal to the best bread of wheat flour alone. 7. Buckwheat, with an equal quantity of barley or rye, and one-fifth of wheat leaven ; or, still better, with one-half of wheat flour. 8. In general potatoes may serve, when they are dry, for one-half, and, when fresh or new, for two-thirds, and even for four-fifths, in the fabrication of household bread. This last quantity of four-fifths is the greatest that has been employed with advantage and with uni- form success. 9. Oats, barley, rice, or maize, also mix well with potatoes when used with a wheaten leaven of one-fifth of the total weight. During the scarcity of wheat in 1800 potatoes were dressed as follows, and handed round at dinner instead of bread :—The potatoes, as much as possible of one size, or large and small dressed separately, having been washed, but neither pared nor scraped, put them in a pot with a little cold water, but not enough to cover them. If large throw cold water in occasionally when they begin to boil, and till boiled to the heart, which, according to their size, will take from half an hour to an hour and a quarter. The slower they are cooked the better. Whilst boiling throw in a little salt, and when done pour off the water, set the pot over the fire again for a minute or two, and they are ready. Eat them as bread with a little salt, and the skins on. FLOWERS. If flowers received from a distance, or from any other cause, are drooping and fading, dip the ends of their stalks into hailing water, and let them remain in it until cold. Then cut off the ends that have been thus dipped, and arrange the flowers in the vase or tazza they are to occupy. A mixture of equal measures of sand and water is much better for arranging and sustaining flowers than waterFLO [ 513 ] FLO alone. Flowers will remain much longer fresh and in beauty under a glass shade than if ex- posed to the air. Camellias will remain foir a month, or even six weeks, quite perfect under a shade, and, of course, their stems supplied with water. The ends of the stems of cut flowers, about a quarter of an inch, should be cut off when they begin to droop, and two or three drops of spirit of hartshorn added to the water; or they may be dipped into boiling water as before directed. FLOWERS: To Dry. Talce some fine white sand (that called silver sand is the best), wash it repeatedly until all dirt is removed, and the water remains clear. Next dry it thoroughly, and fill a vase, a stone flower-pot, or a glass half full of the sand ; in this stick fresh-gathered flowers in their natural position, and afterwards cover them gently with the sand, taking care not to damage the petals. Now place the vessel in the sun, or in a room where a constant fire is kept, and let it remain until the flowers are perfectly dry. Then remove the sand carefully, and clean the leaves with a feather-brush. You must gather your flowers for this purpose when they are dry, that is, after the dew has evapo- rated. The process succeeds best with single flowers, but the difficulty attending such double ones as pinks, carnations, &c., may be obviated by splitting the cup on each side, and when the flower is quite dry the incision made to adhere by means of gum water; or the cup may be pricked around with a pin to let out the moisture. Some flowers lose their natural lively colour by this process, but it may be restored as follows :— Roses and other flowers of a delicate colour should be exposed to a moderate vapour of brimstone; but crimson or scarlet flowers should be placed in a vapour of the solution of tin in spirits of nitre. The green leaves and stems are renovated by the vapour produced from a solution of steel filings in spirit of vitriol. When dried the scent of each particular flower may be artificially renewed by dropping into the middle of it some of its essential oil; thus oil of cloves will scent the pink, oil of roses the rose, oil of jasmine the jasmine, &c., and by tliis means a bouquet of flowers is ob- tained all through the winter months. FLOWERS : To Extract their Perfume. Take a quantity of the petals of any flower that has an agreeable flavour; have thin layers of cotton wool, and dip them into fine Florence oil ; sprinkle a little salt on the flowers, and place layers of the oiled cotton and flowers alternately in an earthen or wide-mouthed glass vessel until it is quite full. Tie the top tightly with a bladder, and place the vessel in a south aspect or in a moderate heat for a fortnight: when opened a highly fragrant oil may be ex- tracted by pressure from the mass. FLOWERS, CHEMISED. Prepare them as for caramel in every respect, but have some- thing firm and soft to stick them upright in ; dip them in nice prepared isinglass, or well- whipped white of egg; hold them over white paper, and sift over them double-refined sugar in the finest powder, which may be coloured to give more effect to the different flowers. These flowers are beautiful in caramel baskets. FLOWERS, PRALINEED. All flowers may be pralineed, which keep well in that state for making ices and jellies at all seasons. Weigh the flowers, pick and throw them into water, and wash and dry them. Have double the quantity of sugar brought to souffle, or blow; put in the flowers, and let it come again to the same height; take it off, and grain the sugar by rub- bing it to the sides of the pan. When that is accomplished set it in the stove or mouth of the oven to dry, sift over the sugar, and bottle the flowers. FLOWERS IN SUGAR. Clarify sugar to a caramel height, which may be known by dip- ping in a fork, and if it throws the sugar as fine as threads put in the flowers. Have ready some tea-cups, with the insides rubbed with sweet oil; put into each cup four table-spoonsful of the sugar and flowers, and when cold turn them out of the cups, and serve them to table piled one upon another. FLOWERS, WAX. The following articles should be laid upon the table before the making commences—a penknife, a pair of scissors, a jDiece of wire about three inches long, pointed at one end, and having a round knob of sealing- wax at the other, three or four smooth and slender rods of wood, a few sheets of wax of different colours, some wire of different sizes covered with green tissue paper for stems, and some very thin tin or brass to cut up into patterns. Some green wax should also be at hand in a melted state. A flower must be chosen for the first attempt whose parts are very simple and easily imitated —the common primrose, for instance, whose petals, or flower-leaves, are five in number, having in the centre five stamens, and being supported by a green calyx, or flower-cup. Take the blossom carefully to pieces without injuring any of its parts ; make the petals and calyx perfectly smooth by flattening them be- tween the leaves of a book, or by placing them under a warm flat iron, and then cut out patterns of the calyx and one of the petal of the tin. The patterns must correspond with the originals, for the least inaccuracy here would spoil the work. The tin patterns must next be laid upon the wax in the direction of the lengthSI LVE R FLOWER STAN D Exhitated at the-GresX InternationaJ.ExhibiUon.FLO [ 513 ] FLU of the sheets, and the five petals and the calj'x cut from them. Take one of the pieces of wire, being careful that it resembles in size tlie stalk of the primrose; dip it in green melted wax, and when cool fix on the top, by the pressure of the thumb and finger, fine thread- like strips of dark yellow wax, to I'epresent the stamens. These being firmly fixed, fasten on one of the petals in the same manner by pressure; then a third, fourth, and fifth, putting them regularly round, and bending them out- wards. This done, put the calyx in the palm of the hand for a short time, that it may become pliant; then form it to its natural shape round one of the little rods, and thus prepare it to be slipped on at the lower end of the stalk of the flower. When it is properly placed press it tightly against the stem, and the whole will firmly adhere together. A few touches of darker yellow will be required near the centi'e of the petals ; these may be given in oil colours, or in water colours mixed with ox-gall. The root- leaves are generally made of cambric, and may le purchased with the wax, or at the artificial flower maker's, being afterwards dipped in a little warm wax to improve their appearance. Several other flowers are made with nearly the same facility, such as the snowdrop, the violet, the heartsease, the hyacinth, the pink, &c. When the petals are hollow, as in the tulip, crocus, or ranunculus, the wax is warmed in the hand till it is quite pliable, and the central part is gently rolled with the sealing-wax end of the pin. This expands the wax, and forms it in the hollow of the hand to the required shape. Sometimes the petals are wrinkled and rough, as in the gum cistus, the red poppy, &c.; and in order to imitate this appearance the wax is well rolled, so as to make it thin and warm, and then crumpled up by the hand. ]f this is cleverly done the wax petals, on being opened, will very nearly and beautifully resemble the peculiar appearance of the part it is intended to represent. Flowers whose lints are delicately blended with each other (an only be imitated by forming the petals of white wax, and then tinting them with powder colours put on with a short-haired brush. In this way all striped or variegated flowers may le represented. The best way of making a convolvulus is to pour some plaster of Paris carefully into a natural flower, and thus get an exact mould on which to form the waxen copy. A piece of wax is then cut out the size and shape of the flower (which has been cut open and flattened), and formed carefully round the mould, uniting the edges very carefully at a part of the blossom where the join will be hidden by one of the coloured rays which adorn the inside of that lovely flower. It is necessary to be very careful in putting the number of stamens and ^pistils correctly; a botanist will detect an error of this kind immediately, and the character of the flower is destroyed. The ends may be dipped in gum water, and after- wards in powder of the requisite colour. FLUMMERY. Steep three large handsful of very small white oatmeal a day and night in cold water, pour it off clear, add as much more water, and let it stand another day and night; then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is of the consistence of hasty pudding, keeping it well stirred all the time it is boiling. When first strained put to it one large spoonful of white sugar and two of orange flower water; pour it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cyder, milk or cream, and sugar. FLUMMERY, DUTCH. Boil very gently for half an hour 2 ozs. of isinglass in a pint and a half of water, add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons, and the thin rind of one, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as will make it sufficiently sweet. Having beaten up the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald, stir all the time, and pour the whole into a basin ; stir it till it is half cold, let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. FLUMMERY, FRENCH. Beat 1 oz. of isinglass finely, put it into a quart of cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour, keeping it stirring all the time ; then take it off, sweeten it with fine powder sugar, put in a spoonful of rose and another of orange-flower water, strain it through a sieve, and stir it till half cold ; put it into a mould or basin, and when cold turn it into a dish and garnish with currant jelly. FLUMMERY, GREEN. Dissolve 2 ozs. of isinglass in boiling water, and put to it 2 ozs. of sweet and 1 oz. of bitter almonds, and as much juice of spinach as will make it green; set it over a slow fire till near boiling, and then strain through a gauze sieve; when it grows thick pour it into a mould, and the next day turn it out. FLUMMERY, ISINGLASS. Dissolve without boiling 2 ozs. of isinglass in a pint of water; add an equal quantity of white wine, with the juice and zests of two lemons; sweeten; beat the yolks of six very fresh eggs, add, and thicken over the fire, stirring all the time ; pour it into a basin, stir till cold, and put it into a mould, pots, or glasses. FLUMMERY, MELON. Take some stiff flummery that has plenty of bitter almonds in it, and make it a pale green with tlie juice of spinach. When cold, and it becomes as thick as cream,. wet the melon mould, and put the flummery into it; vour a pint of clear jelly 2 LFOM FLU [ 51-1 ] into a basin, and the next day turn out the melon, and lay it in the middle of the basin jelly; fill up the basin with jelly that is begin- ning to set, let it stand all night, and turn it out the next day on a glass dish. FLUMMERY, OATMEAL. Boil four quarts of water; when it is rather warmer than milk from the cow put to it two quarts of oat- meal just cracked; when it has stood till sour pour off the water, and*wash the flour out well through a sieve with three quarts of fresh water; let this stand twenty-four hours, then pour off all the water, leaving the thick, to one Clip of which measm-e three of milk ; set it over the fire, and keep stirring it. When it begins to curdle put it through a sieve, and set the liquor again on the fire; repeat this, passing it through a sieve so long as it curdles; then boil it for twenty minutes, and put it into cups first dipped in water. If the water stands upon-the oatmeal fourteen or twenty days, according to the weather, so that it only turns sour, not mouldy, the better the flummery will be. FLUxMMERY, RICE. Take rice either in grain, ground, or in flour; dissolve it perfectly in a little water, and rub it till smooth in as much new milk or cream as it will stiffen; add sugar and lemon juice, or sugar, wine, and cinnamon, or a few sweet and bitter almonds. It is excellent in all these different ways, as it gives no tfouble in making, and is light and good for children. Dish it in coffee cups, large cups, a china basin, or in moulds of any size, dipping them in water before they are filled, that the flummery may slip out easily. FLUMMERY, A TEMPLE IN. Divide a quart of stiff flummery into three parts, and colour one part pink with a little bruised cochineal steeped in French brandy; scrape 1 oz. of chocolate, dissolve it in a little strong coffee, and mix it with another part of the flummery, which will make it a stone colour, and have the last part white; then wet the temple mould, and fit it in a pot to make it stand evenly; fill the bottom of the temple with flummery for the steps, the four points with white; fill up the rest with the chocolate d ummery, and let it stand till the next day; then loosen it very gently from the mould, and tarn it out; stick sprigs of flowers on the top of every point, which will strengthen it, and give it a neat appearance. Lay round it sweet- meats for a garnish. ' FLUMMERY, WELSH. Put a little isinglass to a quart of stiff hartshorn jelly, add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy, and some lemon juice and sugar; boil till it is thick, and then strain it. Y^ou may add, if you choose, 3 07.3. of almonds blanched and pounded, and ab( ut ten bitter ones. FLUX. See Dysentery. FOLDING. See Apparel. FOMENTATIONS are external applications to the skin by means of flannels or bandages. They are used hot or cold according to circum- stances. In cases of sprains, or other affections where the application of heat is required, thick flannel is dipped in the hot liquid, and, after being slightly wrung, it is placed as hot as possible upon the part, and as it cools another flannel is got ready. In this manner the bleeding after the application of leeches may be kept up for a considerable time. In colic, long constipation, and other affections of the bowels, the use of hot fomentations, which are usually made by boiling poppy heads and camomile flowers in water, are frequently found to be very useful. This fomentation is at the same time emollient and soothing. Its strength may be increased by sprinkling laudanum upon the flannel when it has been wrung. As no danger can result fi'om the use of hot fomentations for such affec- tions, they may always be resorted to, in the absence of a medical man, when the pain is violent and the case is urgent. They are some- times used in gout with advantage, and for quinsy when it is necessary to bring the tumour to a suppuration. An excellent fomentation to relieve acute pain is composed of 2 ozs. of white poppy heads and ^ oz. of elder flowers, boiled in three pints of water until reduced to a quart. Or an aromatic fomentation may be employed with advantage in cases of dysentery, flatulent colics, and retchings to vomit, made of i oz. of Jamaica pepper boiled for a short time in red wine; and a strengthening fomentation to apply to weak parts may be composed of oak bark, 1 oz.; pomegranate peel, ^oz.; alum, 2 drachms; smiths' forge water, or water in which a red-hot iron has been repeatedly thrust until the water acquires a strong taste, 3 pints. The bark and peel must be boiled in the water until the quantity has evaporated one-third; the de- coction then strained, and the alum dissolved in it. This astringent liquor or the preceding may be taken inwardly, as well as applied outwardly in the forai of fomentations. Cold fomentations are useful in sprains when active inflammation has subsided, and it is re- quired to give tone and strength to the part. The best way of applying them is to put a thick bandage upon the part, and to keep pouring cold water over it. Cold astringent fomentations mixed with sugar of lead are used for the dissipation of tumours ; but this should never be done without medical advice, as a medical man only can be the proper judge as to whether such applications should be used, and great danger frequently results from an inju- dicious attempt to dissipate affections of thisFON t 515 ] FOO isnture. Warm fomentations to the feet, sharpened with the addition of mustard or muriatic acid (the latter in the proportion of two table-spoonsful to a pint of water), are not unfrequently ordered for the relief of pains in the head, hut in such cases it is always more convenient to use the foot bath. Camomile Fomentation. Camomile flowers, i oz.; seeds of sweet fennel, 2 drachms; dis- tilled water, 1 pint. Boil for ten minutes, and strain. To promote suppuration. Hemlock Fomentation. Buil | lb of the fresh leaves of hemlock, or 3 ozs. of the dried herb, in a quart of water for half an hour, and strain. Used for tumours, &c. Poppi Fomentation. Tlie capsules and seeds of poppy heads. 2 ozs.; distilled water, 3 pints. Cut the capsule of the poppy into three slices; bruise these and the seeds ; after- wards boil in the water to 1 pint, and strain. To allav pain. FONDUS, ENGLISH... Beat 4 ozs. of Par- tnesan cheese to a paste, add a piece of butter, mix well, and stir in the yolks of six eggs sni a gill of cream. When well mixed add the whites, with 4 ozs. of sifted flour, at the moment of putting it into the oven in a very deep dish of silver or block tin, to give it room to rise. Stir it for a few minutes after it is put into the oven. FONDUS, FRENCH. Put some grated Parmesan cheese in a basin, with pepper, a little melted butter, and the yolks of eggs; stir them together; whip the whites a little at a time with the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as you can, and bake them like biscuits in a moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as possible after they are done. FOOD. See Aliment, Animal Food, Diet, and Vegetable Food. FOOTMAN. Mrs. Parkes, in her excellent work on " Domestic Duties," says that those of a footman must necessarily vary according to the size and rank in society of the family into which the individual enters. In small families, where only one is kept, his morning employ- ments commence with the rougher part of the work of his department, such as cleaning knives, forks, and shoes, brushing clothes, and assisting the housemaid to rub the mahogany or other polished furniture in the libraries and the dining and drawing-rooms. He has then to prepare for the breakfast hour by washing and cleaning himself, laying the cloth, and placing everything in readiness on the breakfast table, seeing that the water is on the fire in proper time, tbat no delay may arise on his part when the family assemble in the breakfast-room. To keep the plate in good order, to wash the china and glass well, making the latter as bright and clear as possible; ta wash and wipe clean the handles of knives an(? forks ; to fold up and put away from the dust the breakfast-cloth which is in use, are the employments that generally occupy the morning hours of the footman, while he holds himself in readiness to answer bells and to open the hall door. Waiting well at table is also an important part of his employment. He should be in the daily habit of laying the dinner cloth neatly and in good time, placing for each person a knife, fork, spoon, plate, and napkin; a tumbler, a wine-glass, and a chair. When there is soup a soup plate should be placed upon the other plate; but this, of course, must not be put on the table until the dinner is about to be served, or it will be cold. When the dinner is on the table he should announce it to the family, and place himself in readiness by the sideboard until they have seated themselves. Then he should be all attention, active, but quiet, be ready to hand every plate in turn, and to change it as soon as required. Bread, wine, or water, when handed round, should be presented with the left hand, and upon the left side of the person served, and everything should be handed on a waiter. He should be careful never to reach across a table, nor to put his hand or arm before any one. He should tread lightly, make as little noise as he can whilst changing plates or other things, and not speak too loud whea answering a question. Between the courses the crumbs should be cleared away, either by a napkin or a brush, into a clean plate. After dinner is over, and the table cleared of everything upon it, the table-cloth must be lightly thrown together, and carried off until a convenient opportunity occurs for shaking the crumbs out of it and folding it up. This should be done as soon as possible, lest the cloth acquires a rumpled and untidy appearance. When the task of cleaning the knives and forks is part of the business of the footman he should, as soon as possible after they have been used, put them into warm water {hot water will unsolder the blades from the handles), and wipe them dry; they will then remain without injury in the proper tray till the usual time of cleaning them. The pantry, which contains the glass, china, and all the various articles belonging to the footman's province, should be properly furnished for him with shelves, hooks, drawers lined with green baize for the plate, and small wooden tubs or bowls for washing glass and china. He should have two large pieces of leather for hia plate, and two smaller for the candlesticks andFOR FOR [ 516 ] enuffers. He should, according to the size of the family, be allowed a sufficient number of glass, tea, and knife cloths each week; a towel, a bowl, and a piece of soap to enable him to wash his hands very frequently. A good steady servant will keep his clothes and person clean and neat; he will be particularly careful in washing his hands, being called upon constantly to wait and hand about so many various things. In many families the footman is, very properly, not allowed to deliver any small thing, not even a card or a letter, except on a waiter; and this custom, independently of its cleanliness, begets respect, and displays a propriety of conduct which is always desirable in a servant. A good footman, when sent out, will not waste his time, but will execute his errands quickly, and return to his business. Punctuality is an important quality in the footman, who ought never to fail in time when ordered to attend either his master or his mistress. FORCEMEAT FOR BAKED SOLES. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal a little, then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried and cut small, and some onions, a little gai'lic or a shallot, some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound the whole finely with a few bread crumbs added to it, and bind with the J oiks of two or three eggs. FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR FISH SOUPS. Beat the flesh anu soft parts of a middling-sized lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, one spoonful of oyster liquor, 2 ozs. of warmed butter, and two eggs beaten for a long time; make into balls, and fry them of a nice brown colour in butter. FORCEMEAT, COLLOPS OF. Mince some meat, and put it on the fire, with a slice of butter, a little parsley, and green onions shred finely; shake in a little flour, and moisten with stock; add pepper, reduce to a thick sauce that will adhere to the meat, and then leave it to cool. Make a paste with flour and water, and a little butter and salt; knead and roll it with a rolling-pin as thin as a half-crown; place your meat upon it in small parcels, a full finger's distance from each other; wet the paste all round the meat, and then cover it with paste rolled to the same thickness as that on which you placed the meat, pinching the paste with your fingers round the parcels of meat. Cut the collops sepai'atcly, and fry them of a nice brown. This dish may be made with tlio lomains of a hash. FORCEMEAT OF FISH. Take 2 ozs. of either turbot, soles, lobster, shrimps, or oj'sters, free fiom skin; put it into a mortar, with 2 ozs. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of bread crumbs, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a little shallot, grated lemon-peel, and parsley, minced very finely ; then pound the whole well till it is thoroughly mixed and quite smooth; season it with Cayenne to your taste ; break in one whole egg, rub well together, and it will then he ready for use. Oysters parboiled and minced finely, and an anchovy, may be added. FORCEMEAT FOR FOWLS OR MEAT. Shred a little ham or gammon, some cold veal or fowl, some beef suet, a little onion, some parsley, a very small quantity of lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and some bread crumbs. Pound the whole in a mortar, and bind it with •one or two eggs beaten and strained. FORCEMEAT FOR HARE. Take 2 ozs. of beef suet chopped finely, 3 ozs. of bread crumbs grated finely, parsley, shallot, marjoram, lemon thyme, lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper and salt according to tagte, and mix together with an egg. If the liver of the hare is quite sound it may be parboiled, minced very finely, and mixed with the above ingredients. FORCEMEAT, INGREDIENTS FOR. Forcemeat should be made sufficiently consistent to cut with a knife, but not diy or heavy. No one flavour should predominate greatly. Accord- ing to what it is wanted for, a selection may be made from the following list, being careful to use the least of those articles which are the most pungent:—Cold fowl or veal, scraped ham, fat bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolks and whites of eggs well beaten to bind the mixture. The forcemeat may be made with any of these articles without any striking flavour; therefore any of the following different ingredients may be made use of to vary the taste :—O^'sters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, thyme, basil, yolks of hard eggs. Cayenne, garlic, shallot, chives, Jamaica pepper in fine powder, or two or three cloves. To force or stuff turkeys, geese, ducks, &c., see under the heads of the dififerent ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. FORCEMEAT PATTIES. Make a farce the same as for Forcemeat (Raw) Pie, only chop it smaller, and let the crust be a rich puff paste; cut it to the size of the patty moulds, fill them with the farce, being first rubbed with butter; cover them with puff paste, and let them bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour. When ready to serve add a little warm cullis with the squeeze of a lemon. FORCEMEAT PIE. Take any sort of meat, either a tender piece of beef, fillet of veal, leg of mutton, game, or poultry, and chop it up with the same quantity of beef suet, parsley.FO W [ 517 ] FOR young onions, and mushrooms shred finely, and seasoned with salt or mixed spices, moisten- ing with two eggs mixed with half a pint of cream. When the forcemeat is finished cover the bottom of a pie dish with paste, and put the forcemeat over it about the thickness of an inch, completing the pie the same as all others. Let it balie for two hours, but if made of beef or mutton still longer. When it is done open the pie, cut the forcemeat into squares, skim off the fat, and put in a good cuUis. FORCEMEAT FOR PIES. Take 1 lb. of fillet of veal, J lb. of fresh pork, and some beef marrow; season with pepper, cloves, and grated nutmeg ; then add some veal sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, mincing up the whole very finely together. Instead of veal you may use, if you please, the white part of any poultry or game, or both in equal quantities, and in- stead of pork, sausage meat. It is with this stuffing or forcemeat that meat pies are gar- nished. If you desire to make this forcemeat into balls add the yolks of eggs, and roll them in flour. FORCEMEAT, RAW, PIE. Take a fillet of veal chopped, with calf's udder scalded, raw breasts of poultry, beef suet, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two or three raw eggs. When well pounded and seasoned make it into balls, or into the shape of sausages; put them into the pie, and if you choose you may add arti- choke bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, sweetbreads, &c., with some butter. Finish the same as all other pies. FORCEMEAT FOR TURKEY. Mince I lb. of beef suet, or rather marrow, the same quantity of bread crumbs, 2 drachms of parsley leaves, 1^ drachm of sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, as much of grated leraon-peel, an onion or shallot chopped very finely, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Pound these thoroughly together with the yolks and whites of two eggs, the soft part of twelve oysters, an anchovy, or a little grated ham or tongue. Pork sausage meat is sometimes used to stuff turkeys and fowls; or it may be fried, and sent up as a garnish. FORCEMEAT FOR TURTLE. Take 1 lb. of fine fresh suet, 1 oz. of ready-dressed veal or chicken chopped finely, crumbs of bread, a little shallot or onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon thyme, shred finely. Beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the ingredients into a moist paste; roll it into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils. When they are of a light brown colour take them out, and drain them before the fire. If the suet happens to be moist or stale it will be necessary to use a great many more eggs. Balls made in this way are remarkably light, but rather greasy. Some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. FORCEMEAT FOR VEAL. Mix 1 lb. of scraped veal with half the quantity of fat bacon in a mortar, adding the crumbs of a stale French roll, half a tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and mace, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Mix these thoroughly together with two well-beaten eggs. FORD'S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND. See Balsam of Horehodnd. FOTHERGILL'S PILLS. Socotrine aloes, 1 drachm; scammony, | drachm ; extract of colocynth, 1 drachm; antimonial powder, i drachm. Make into a mass with syrup of buckthorn. Divide into forty-eight pills, and take two at bedtime. FOWL : To Bone. Cut through the skin down the centre of the back, and raise the flesh carefully on each side with the point of a sharp knife until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. With the point of the knife detach the joints, and till a little practice has been gained it will perhaps be better to bone these joints by passing the knife carefully between the bone and flesh, and pulling out the bone before proceeding further; but after they are once detached from it the whole body may be easily separated from the flesh, and taken out entire. Only the neck bones and merrythought will then remain to be removed, and can be easily cut away. It is usual to leave the pinions unboned, in order to give more easily its natural form to the fowl when it is dressed. The bird, thus prepared, may be restored to its original form by filling the legs and wings with forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest bacon, or anything else of good flavour, which will give a marbled appear- ance to the fowl when it is carved, and then be sewn up and trussed as usual; or the legs and wings may be drawn inside the body, and the bird, being first flattened on a table, may be covered with sausage meat, and the various other ingredients we have named so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in every part; then tightly rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of broad tape, wrappei^ a thin pudding cloth, closely tied at both ends, and dressed as follows :—Put it into a braising pan, stewpan, or thick iron saucepan bright in the inside, and fitted as nearly as may be to its size ; add all the chicken bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cari'ots, two bay leaves, a large blade of mace, twenty-four white peppercorns, and any trim- mings or bones of undi essed veal which may be at hand ; cover the whole with good veal broth, add salt if needed, and stew very softly from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half; let it cool in the li([uor in which it was stewed, andFOW [ 518 ] FOW after it is lifted out boil down the gravy to a jelly, and strain it; let it become cold, clear off the fat, and serve it cut into large dice, or roughed, and laid round the fowl, which is to be served cold. If restored to its form instead of being rolled it must be stewed gently for an hour, and may be sent to table hot, covered with mushroom, or any other good sauce that may be preferred ; or it may be left until the following day, and served garnished with the jelly, which should be firm, very clear, and well flavoured. The liquor in which a calf's foot has been boiled down, added to the broth, will give it the necessary degree of consistency. French cooks add three or four onions to these preparations of fowls. FOWL: To Marinate. Raise the skin from the breast bone, take a veal sweetbread, with oysters, mushrooms, an anchovy, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and a little thyme; chop them small, and mix them with the yolk of egg; stuff this carefully under the skin without break- ing it, put oysters into the body, paper the breast, and roast it. Garnish with lemon, FOWL BOILED WITH OYSTERS. Take a young fowl, fill the inside with oysters, put it in a jar, plunge the jar into a kettle or sauce- pan of water, and boil it an hour and a half. There will be a quantity of gravy from the juices of the fowl and the oysters in the jar; make it into a white sauce, with the addition of egg, cream, or a little flour and butter; add oysters to it, or serve it up plain with the fowl. The gravy that comes from a fowl dressed in this manner will be a stiff jelly the next day. The fowl will be very white and tender, and of an exceedingly fine flavour-^advantages not attainable in ordinary boiling, while the dish loses nothing of its delicacy and simplicity. FOWL BOILED WITH RICE. Stew a fowl in some well-skimmed clear mutton broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked, and simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire ; keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. The less liquor the fowl is done in the better. Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for sauce. FOWL A LA BRAISE. Truss the fowl the same as for boiling, and season the inside with pepper and salt; put at the bottom of a vessel a slice or two of beef, lay over the fowl some thin slices of lean bacon and bits of veal, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, half a lemon, pepper, and salt. Set these over a slow fire for ten minutes, and put to them about three pints of beef brotb or warm water; warm a glass of Madeira, and pour it in. Stew till the fowl is tender, strain the gravy through a piece of dimity, the rough side upwards, first dipped in cold water, and mix it over the fowl. Oysters are a great addition. FOWL, BROILED. Split the fowl down the back, season it very well with pepper, and put it on the gridiron with the inner part next to the fire, which must be very clear. Hold the gridiron at a considerable distance from the fire, and allow the fowl to remain until it is nearly half done; then turn it, taking great care that it does not burn. Broil it of a fine brown, and serve it up with stewed mushrooms, or a sauce with pickled mushrooms. FOWL, COLD: To Dress. Cut a fowl into quarters, and beat up one or two eggs; grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little sauce, some chopped parsley, and a few bread crumbs; beat them well together, dip the fowl into this mixture, and then fry them of a nice light brown. Prepare a little good gravy, thicken it with flour, and put in a spoonful of catsup ; lay the fried fowl in a dish, and pour the gravy over it. You may garnish with lemon or a few mushrooms. FOWL A LA CRfiME. This dish is made of a cold fowl, either roasted or stewed. Take off the breast and fleshy part of the fowl by cutting it square all through, and with a little bread toasted and dipped in butter stop the aperture; then fill the fowl with Jarc6 a la creme, make a kind of wall round it with buttered paper, and cover the same with bacon to prevent the fowl from getting too much colour. If this dish is to be placed on the flanks of the table in the second course, some of the same fai'ce may be served on toasts cut in the shapes of hearts or lozenges, which are called teinoins. These are to be baked in the oven the same as the fowls, and the fat to be well drained. Serve with a thin sauce Espagnole or veloute. The to astmust be fried before the farce is put over it. FOWL, CROQUETTES OF. Take cold fowl with slices of bam, fat and lean, chop them together very finely, and add half as much stale bread grated, some salt, pepper, nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of made mustard, one of catsup, and a lump of butter; knead all well together till it resembles sausage meat, make it up into cakes or little balls the size of a walnut, dip them in the yolks of eggs beaten, cover them thickly with grated bread, and fry them of a light brown. FOWL, CROUSTADES OF. Cut some crumb of bread into the shape of drops, that is, pointed at one end and rounded at the other; fry them, and lay seven or eight of tbem toFOW [ 519 1* FOW garnish the bottom of a dish like a cake cut into seven or eight parts. Make also a round one, which fry, and put in the middle, and the others above. In thickness they require to be about twice the width of the thumb. Cut the insides with a knife to make them hollow, and also a lid to inclose them; but do not make the sides too thin, lest the gi'avy should escape. Having fried and placed them, fill them with a hash or puree of fowl. FOWL A LA DREUX. The fowl being trussed, if you wish to give additional firmness to the skin and flesh have some boiling water ready, then lay hold of the fowl by the saddle, dip the breast in the hot water, and then in cold water. When the fowl is quite cold cut some ham in long squares, lard the breast of the fowl in imitation of a draught board, put it into a stewpan trimmed all round with fat bacon, and moisten with poele. There must be a brisk fire over it, and a slow one under it, as it will be sufBciently done in three quarters of an hour at the most. Dry the bacon with a salamander, glaze of a good colour, and serve with sauce VAllemande. FOWL, DUNELM OF. Stew some mush- rooms very gently for an hour and a half in butter, with mace, salt, and pepper; let them cool, mince them, dust in flour till the butter becomes a roux, and work in by degrees a little cream till it obtains the consistency of a sauce ; simmer and cook it smooth ; mince the meat the same size and quantity of the mush- rooms. FOWL FILLETS. Cut the breasts of three fowls ofi'in fillets; melt some butter in a pan, and arrange them in it; add a little salt, and cover with paper. Cut six pieces from a tongue or ham of the same size, and put them into a stewpan with a little good stock; let them simmer without boiling; toss and turn the fillets, which must be very white ; put in some well-seasoned glaze or strong stock; cut six slices of bread the size and shape of the fillets, and fry them in butter. Dish the fillets en couronne, putting bread, tongue, and fowl alternately. A ragoiit of trufiles, oysters, mush- rooms, tomato, or any other nice thing, may be got ready to put into the sauce to dish in the middle. The thighs may be skinned, boned, larded with truffles, and done as the fillets, and dished over a mushroom, truffle, tomato, cucumber, artichoke, or any other sauce. The back, with the side bones and wings of the fowls, will make a very nice grill or a high- seasoned devil. FOWL, FORCED. Take a large fowl, pick it clean, cut it down the back, and draw it; then take off the skin whole, cut the flesh from the bones, and chop it up with half a pint of oysters, 1 oz. of beef marrow, and a little pepper and salt; mix it up with cream, lay the meat on the bones, draw the skin over it, and sew up the back; cut large thin slices of bacon, lay them over the breast of the fowl, and tie the bacon on with packthread. It will take au hour to roast before a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy sauce, pour it in the dish, take the bacon off, lay the fowl in the gravy, and serve. Garnish with oysters, mushrooms, or pickles. FOWL EN FRICANDEAU. Cut a fowl in two, and bone it thoroughly; make a force- meat of a sweetbread cut into large dice, a few fat livers, truffles, or mushrooms, or both, chopped parsley, shallots, and scraped bacon, mixed with the yolks of three eggs, pepper, and salt. Fill the fowl with this farce, sew it up, and give it a fry in butter for a moment; then lard it like a fricandeau, and braise it in broth with a few slices of veal and bacon. When done sift and skim the sauce, reduce it to a caramel, and glaze the fowl with it. Serve with whatever sauce you think proper. FOWL, FRICASSEED. Pick, draw, and singe a fowl; cut it in pieces, and soak them for one or two hours in cold water to whiten the meat, and then drain them; put into a sauce- pan a piece of butter and a spoonful of flour; stir it about till the butter is melted, and then moisten it with a glass of water ; add salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a sprig of parsley, and chives; put in the fowl, and let it stew three quarters of an hour; thicken the sauce by itself with the yolks of three eggs, and add some lemon juice, verjuice, or a dash of vinegar. When two-thii'ds done put in some mushrooms, and add, if you like, some button onions, with the bottoms of artichokes, at the same time that you put in the fowl. A few crayfish may be added, as well as some crusts and cocks' combs, around the dish. To keep the meat white it is necessary to rub it with lemon juice, and cover it during the cooking with some buttered paper placed on a fricassee inside the saucepan. FOWL, FRIED (A lTndienne). Slice some onions, and fry them in lard till they be- come of a nice brown colour, adding a pinch of flour. When the onions are sufiBciently done take them out with the skimmer, and keep them hot. Have ready a fowl cut up as lor a fricassee, and the pieces blanched in boiling water; put the pieces of fowl in the lard in which the onions were fried till they also become of a nice colour; then pour upon them some stock, adding salt, allspice, Cayenne pepper^ and a little turmeric or Indian saffron. When the fowl is done enough put in the fried onions, boil the whole for two or three minutes, and serve, sending up separately a dish of rice d la Creole'[ 5-20 ] row FOW FOWL, GAME-FLAVOURED. Take a rabbit that has been kept a long time, and cut the meat of it into thin slices ; lay them on a dish, and season them with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, ciboule, shallots, and a little sweet oil. Split a fowl at the back, bone it all to the legs and wings, and stuff it with this ; then sew it up, and give it its natural form ; braise it with slices of veal and ham, covered over with slices of bacon, and soak it about a quarter of an hour; then add a glass of white wine, a little broth, a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. When done sift and skim the sauce, add a little cullis, and serve it over the fowl. FOWL GELATINE. Draw and singe a fowl, and bone it by splitting, commencing at the back; leave as little meat as possible on the carcass. The wings having been taken off pre- viously, do not injure the skin, which must remain upon the pieces. Make a forcemeat of veal by chopping up | lb. of fillet, and separately as much bacon and tender fresh pork; mix them, and add some onion and parsley chopped finely, with pepper, salt, spice, and an egg well beaten ; chop up the whole again in order to mix them well together. The fowl being boned and laid upon the table, cover it with a layer of forcemeat, then thin slices of fillet of veal, some pieces of fowl, and some slices of tongue d Vecarlate, which may be bought at the pork butcher's ; then a layer of veal forcemeat, some sliced truffles, a layer of slices of ham, and so on until the fowl is filled ; then tie up the fowl, giving it as natural a form as possible ; wrap it in a cloth, and tie it up ; place it in a dauhiere, with plenty of water, a large knuckle of veal, half a calf's foot, salt, pepper, large onions, three carrots, bacon, two bay leaves, two cloves, and a little thyme. Let it stew six houis, untie it when almost cold, take off the jelly, clarify it, and let it also cool to serve round the gelatine. FOWL, GLAZED. This is braised and glazed in the same way as Fowl en Fkicandeau, only with this difference, that it is done without stuffing. Serve with its own sauce, or any other you like better. FOWL WITH ITS OWN GRAVY. Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, lard it quite through with bacon, ham, and parsley; put it in a pan, with a little butter, two or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, 'carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a glass of white wine; stew them gently till they are done, skim and strain the sauce, and serve it with the fowl. FOWL, HASHED. Cut a fowl into pieces, and put them into some gravy, with a little cream, catsup, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, a few oysters , and their liquor, and a piece of butter mixed with flour; keep stirring until the butter is melted, lay sippets in a dish, put in the hash, and serve. FOWL, HEDGEHOG. Make a farce with the liver chopped, scraped bacon, parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt, and stuff a fowl with it; truss it the same as for roasting, give it a few turns over the fire in butter, lard it closely with slices of ham and pieces of truffle to stick pretty far out, and roast it, basting often with good oil. Serve with consomme, cullis sauce, and a little lemon juice. FOWL, HODGEPODGE OF. Cut a fowl into quarters, and braise them with pickled pork; make a good ragout with small onions, all sorts of roots cut differently, and the braised pork; intermix all well on a dish, and serve with a thick cullis sauce. FOWL A LA HOLLANDAISE. Make a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, and some boiled parsley; season with pepper, salt, and gi'ated lemon-peel, and an egg beaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a good-sized young fowl, put in the forcemeat, cover the fowl with a piece of white paper buttered, and roast it rather more than half an hour. Have ready a thick batter made of flour, milk, and eggs; take off the paper, and pour some of the batter over the fowl. As soon as it becomes dry add more, and do this till it is all crusted over, and of a nice brown colour. Serve it with melted butter and lemon pickle, or a thickened brown gravy. FOWL IN JELLY. Bone the bird, and fill it with forcemeat, in which are mushrooms ; lard it with fat bacon, tie it up, and stew it in strong gravy till a skewer may be passed through it easily. When cold take off the fat, and serve with a savory jelly round it. FOWL AS A LARGE SAUSAGE. Cut a fowl in two, bone it, and flatten the meat with a roller; put some forcemeat upon each half, made of breast of fowl roasted, bread crumbs soaked in cream, scraped bacon, udder, parsley, shallots, salt, and fine spices, mixed with the yolks of three eggs; tie up the pieces in the form of large sausages, wrap them in slices of bacon, and then in pieces of linen cloth; braise them in broth, with a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, and carrots. When they are done untie the cloth, take off the bacon, squeeze them gently between a cloth to press out the fat, and serve with what sauee you choose. FOWL WITH OLIVES. Truss and dress a fowl the same as Fowl k la Dredx ; then take some olives, which should be blanched till they are no longer briny, and boil them in thin EspagnoU; skim the sauce, add a littleFOW [ 521 ] FOW lemon juice, and pour it under the fo^^l. Serve with some stuffed olives without stones. Turn the olives with a knife, so as to take out the stones and leave the olives whole. FOWL PILLAU. Boil a jjint of rice in as much water as will cover it, with black pep- per, a few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves tied up in a bit of cloth. When the rice is tender take out the spice, and stir in a piece of butter; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon, lay them in a dish, and cover them with rice ; lay round the dish, and upon the rice, hard eggs cut in halves, quarters, and lengthways, with onions, first boiled and then fried. FOWL, PUDDING OF (A la Reine). This dish is made of cold fowls. Take the breast and fleshy parts of several fowls, and cut them into small dice, all of an equal size. Throw these dice into a reduction of veloute, and season them well; then put them into a dish that they may cool. When this preparation is quite cold cut it into two equal parts, which you must make into puddings of a long shape, the size of the dish; roll them in crumbs of bread ; then dip them into egg, and roll them again in bread. You must be careful that the extremities are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will brealc in the frjing-pan. When they are fried of a good colour drain them, wipe off the grease with a clean towel, and serve with a thin veloute, or green parsley fried between them. FOWL, PURfiB OF. Take all the white part of three cold roast fowls, and pound it; then add about 1 oz. of calf's udder, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; pound the whole together until well mi.xed. Dissolve two sj oonsful of white jelly or consomme, and three of bechamel or veloute, and when liquid add to it the pounded meat; stir together over the fire, but do not let it boil; strain it into another vessel, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Serve it with bread in the usual manner. FOWL ROASTED WITH CHESTNUTS. Roast some chestnuts very carefully, so that they may not be burnt, then take off the skins, and peel them; take about a dozen of them, cut them small, and bruise them in a mortar; parboil the liver of a fowl, and bruise it; cut about I lb. of ham or bacon, and pound it; then mix the whole together, with a good quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When these are all well mixed together put it into your fowl, and roast it. The best way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roast with a string, and then baste it with butter. For sauce take the rest of the chestnuts, peel and skin them, put them into some good gravy, with a little white wine, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; then place your fowl in the dish, pour in the sauce, garnish with lemon, and serve. FOWL ROASTED WITH A RAGOUT OF OYSTERS. Make a forcemeat, to which add a dozen oysters ; stuff the craw, cover the breast of the fowl with slices of bacon, and then a sheet of paper; roast it, take some cullis or good gravy, put in some oysters, with their liquor strained, a little mushroom powder or catsup, and lemon juice; thicken it with flour, add Cayenne pepper and salt, and boil it up. When the fowl is roasted take off the bacon, and serve the sauce in the dish. FOWL, SALAD OF. Cut up a couple of cold roasted fowls, take off the skin, trim them, and lay them in a deep dish with salt, oil, and vinegar. When they have soaked in this a short time place the fowl on a dish, round which lay some lettuces, well washed and cut in quarters, hard eggs (also quartered), fillets of anchovies, gherkins, capers, and a ravigotte. Pour the dressing over the whole, and serve. FOWL, STEWED (1). Truss a fowl the same as for boiling; put it in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms; stew it on a slow fire about a quarter of an hour, turning it often; then put it into another stewpan, with slices of veal and ham, and all the first seasoning; cover it with thin slices of bacon, and stew it gently for a quarter of an hour longer; then add a little whole pepper, some salt, a little stock, and some white wine, and finish it on a braise. When done squeeze in the juice of a lemon, wipe the fowl clean from fat, and serve. FOWL, STEWED (2). Put four clean skewers into the bottom of a stewpan, and place the fowl upon them ; put in a quart of gravy, a bunch of celery, cut small and washed very clean, and two or three blades of mace; let all stew gently till there remains only just sufficient liquor for sauce, then add a good piece of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of red wine, the same quantity of catsup, and a sufficient quantity of pepper and salt to season it; place the fowl on a dish, and serve the sauce over it. FOWL, STUFFED. Make a forcemeat with i lb. of beef suet, as much crumb of bread grated finely, and the meat of a fowl cut very small; beat these in a mortar, with 1 lb. of veal, some truffles, morels, and mushrooms cut small, a few sweet herbs and parsley shred finely, some grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; bone your fowls, fill them with forcemeat, and roast them. Serve with good gravy, truffles, and morels. The fowls may be larded if you choose. FOWL A LA TARTARE. Take a fine fowl, and turn the legs as usual; then cut it iu two.F 0 W [ ; 632 ] FO W take tho bones off from the back, break those of t!ie legs, cut the breast off, flatten the fowl with the back of your knife, and season it with salt and pepper; then dip it in clarified butter, and next into bread crumbs, equally on all sides; next broil it up to a fine colour on a slow fire, that it may be thoroughly done. Send it up with a brown gravy Ilalienne. Thrust your knife into it to ascertain if it is well done : it requires an hour, or at least three quarters, to be done properly. FOWL, WILD. The flavour of wildfowls is preserved better by not stuffing them Put into each pepper, salt, and a piece of batter. Wild fowls do not require so much dressing as tame. They should be done of a nice colour, and nicely frothed. A rich brown gravy should be served in the dish, and when the breast is cut into slices before it is taken from the bone it will be much improved by a squeeze of lemon, some salt, and pepper. If you wish to take off the fishy smell which these birds frequently have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping-pan, and for the first ten minutes baste them with this ; then remove the pan, and keep constantly basting with butter. FOWL, WILD: To Tkuss. Cut off each pinion at the first joint, slit the bird between the vent and rump, then draw it, wipe it out clean, cut off the claws, and enter the skewer into one of the pinions; return the leg back, pass the skewer through that and the body, meeting the other leg and pinion on the opposite side, cut the vent, and put the rump through it. FOWL, WILD, PIE. The fowl should be trussed like a duck for a pie, or for anything else, larded with anchovies, seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. Put a good quantity of butter into the pie, and finish the same as all others. FOWLS : To Boil in a Poelee. Cut into large dice 2 lbs. of lean veal, 2 lbs. of fat bacon cured without saltpetre, two large carrots, and two onions, and add -J lb. of fresh but- ter ; put the whole into a stewpan, and stir it with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until the veal is very white and the bacon partially melted; then pour in three pints of clear boiling bi'oth or water, throw in four cloves, a small bunch or two of thyme and parsley, a bay leaf, and a few corns of white pepper; boil these gently for an hour and a half, strain the poelee through a fine sieve, and set it by in a cool place. FOWLS: To Bone fob Fricassees, Cureies, AND Pies. First carve them entirely into joints, then remove the bones, beginning with the legs and wings at the head of the largest bone ; hold this with the fingers, and work the knife in the meat of the leg without breaking the skin. The remainder of the birds is too easily done to re- quire any instructions. FOWLS: To Choose. When cocks are young their spurs are short. Take care that yon are not deceived by their having been cut or pared, a trick that is often practised. If fresh their vents will be close and dark. Hens are best just before they begin to lay, and are yet full of eggs. If they ai'e old their combs and legs are rough. All poultry should be carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with paper. The cook should be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts not to break the gall-bag, for no wash- ing will take off the bitterness from that which it has touched. If for roasting black-legged fowls are the most moist. A good-sized fowl will take from three quarters of an hour to an hour in roasting, a middling-sized one or chicken twenty minutes. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted, that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or garnished with sausages or scalded parsley. A large barndoor fowl well hung should be stuffed in the crop with sausage meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread sauce. The head should be turned under the wing like a turkey. For boiling choose those that are not black- legged ; pick them carefully, singe, wash, and truss them; then flour them, and put them in boiling water. A good-sized one will be done in half an hour. Serve with parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for diniier, ham, tongue, or bacon is commonly served with them. FOWLS : To Truss. Remove immediately the crops of fowls, but do not draw and truss them till wanted for dressing, else they are apt to dry. For drawing fowls make a slit with a sharp knife, at which slip in the fingers, get fast hold of the gizzard, and draw it carefully forward with the intestines ; but if the liver remains again slip in the fingers, and take out the heart, which will bring the liver with it. Be care- ful not to break the gall-bladder, else it will cause a bitterness which no washing can remove. Having thus cleared the inside of a fowl, select such of the internal parts as are to be used, remove the gall-bladder from the liver, slit the narrow side of the gizzard, and turning it inside out remove the hard bag, and turn round the gizzard, but do not cut the skin by which it is[ 523 ] FOW FOW joined in the middle. The throat should be cut off about two joints from its ccmmencement, leaving sldn enough to turn over the back. Make a slit in the apron, and tuck the rump through it. Fowls for roasting are trussed as follows :— Extend the legs on each side of the bird, only cut off the toes, and run a skewer through each foot to keep them at a proper distance. In some cases the feet should be scalded, and the outside scaly skin taken off. Make a slit in the skinny part of each pinion; through one thrust the liver, and through the other the gizzard ; turn the top of the pinion over the back, and run a skewer through the first joint of each wing, through the body to the other wing. For boiling the under part of the thigh must be cut off, and the stump tucked into a slit made on each side of the belly. Before dressing singe off the hairs of the fowl -with a piece of white paper, and dredge it lightly with flour. The head of a capon is sometimes twisted under the wing, FOWLS, BECHAMEL OF. Put half a dozen spoonsful of bechamel and a piece of jelly into a saucepan ; let it boil, and stir it con- stantly with a wooden spoon. Take the remains of some roasted fowls, and, having minced it very small, put it into the bechamel; stir it lightly, and then pour it into a silver dish; beat up the white of an egg, spread it over the mince, and strew on it grated bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese; pour a little melted butter over the whole, and colour it with a salamander. FOWLS, BOILED. White-legged poultry should always be selected for boiling, as they are of a better colour when dressed than any others. Truss them firmly and neatly, with the legs drawn into the bodies, and the wings twisted over the backs ; let them be well covered with water, which should be hot, but not boil- ing, when they are put in. A full-sized fowl will require about three quarters of an hour from the time of its beginning to simmer, but young chickens not more than from twenty to twentyr five minutes. They should be very gently boiled, and the scum removed with great care as it gathers on the surface of the water. Either of the following sauces may be sent to table with them :■—Parsley and butter, bechamel, English white sauce, oyster, celery, or white mushroom sauce. The fowls are often dished with small tufts of delicately boiled cauliflower placed round them, or with young vegetable marrows, scarcely larger than an egg, merely pared and halved after they are dressed. White sauce must be served with both of these. The livers and gizzards are not at the pi*esent day usually served in the wings of boiled fowls. When they are not so the livers may be sim- mered for four or five minutes, then pressed to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon, and mixed very gradually with the sauce, which should not boil after they are added. FOWLS, COLLOPS OP. Take some puff paste, roll it out very thin, lay on half of it, and at intervals some small pieces of quenelle farce; moisten the paste round each portion, and fold the remainder over it; press it down, and then either with a paste cutter or a knife cut it in semicircles ; fry them, and serve with bunches of fried parsley. FOWLS WITH CRAYFISH SAUCE. Prepare and cook your fowls; put into a stew- pan four spoonsful of reduced veloute, and about the size of an egg of beurre d'ecnvisse ; pass it over the fire, and work it; put it into a dish, and lay the fowls over it, FOWLS, CURRIED (1), To make a dish of cuny for five or six persons take one large or two small fowls, cut them into pieces, and put them in salt and water until the other ingredients are ready. Take two table-spoonsful of powdered ginger, one table-spoonful of fresh turmeric, a few cloves, some mace, cardamom seeds, Cayenne pepper, a dessert-spoonful of black pepper, and salt to your taste ; put these ingi'edients into a mortal", and add eight large onions ; bruise the spices and onions together until they form a paste, and then brown the chicken in butter. Put three pints of water into a saucepan, and when it boils throw in the paste; when this is dissolved put in the chicken, and boil it. When the meat is done the curry is ready for the table. Rice must be served in a separate dish, FOWLS, CURRIED (2). A readier method is to cover each piece of poultry or game in a mixture of flour and curry powder; then fry them with sliced onions in butter till brown ; put all into a stewpan, with boiling water to cover, and simmer about two honi's. FOWLS DEVONPORT FASHION. Let young fowls hang a night; take the livers, hearts, and most tetider parts of the gizzards shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace according to taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks very closely to prevent the water getting in; boil them in salt and water till almost done, drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of butter to brown them. Serve with melted buttei', and a spoonful of any catsup you please in the dish. FOWLS' LEGS : To Dress. Cut the legs and wings of fowls that have been left from a former dinner; chop thyme, parsley, shallot, and mushrooms; mix them with bread crumbsFOW [ 524 ] and a little pepper and salt; beat up three eggs in a basin, dip the pieces of fowl therein, atid roll them in bread crumbs. Do this twice over, then heat some lard in a stewpan, and fry the pieces of a gold colour. When done fry some dry parsley very crisply, put it in the middle of the dish, and the fowl round it. FOWLS' LIVERS AND GIZZARDS. Prepare the gizzards, and when they are cool lard them or slash them ; fill the slashes with gratiu, and lard the edges; lard the livers with truffles, cover a flat dish with gratin, and lay a puff- paste border round. Having crisped the small wings in poultry fat, dish one under each liver and gizzard alternately over the gratin, or roast them on a bird spit. Prepare a tomato sauce, or any ragout, and, after braising the liver and gizzards, glaze them ; dish the ragout, lay over the six side bones, and intermix in a wreath the livers in halves, with the gizzards; or, if there are any other livers or gizzards, they may be added, and all kept whole. FOWLS, PANADO OF. Boil a bit of crumb of bread in some good broth, add to it the breast of a couple of fowls, roasted and ver}' finely pounded; sift the whole in a cloth with strong pressing, and add broth according to the consistence you would have it. FOWLS WITH PEAS. Take i lb. of the breast lard, cut it into dice, take off the skin, and blanch it; drain and put it into a stewpan ; with J lb. of butter make a roux ; pass the lard into it, letting it brown a little. When it is a fine white put in two young fowls cut up as for a fricassee ; moisten with a ladleful of bouillon ; mix it well, and season with parsley, young onions, half a bay leaf, and a clove ; let it boil, put iu a quart of young peas, cook it over a strong fire without a cover, and skim it. When done dish the fowls, and reduce the sauce if too thick ; taste, mask the fowls, and send to table. FOWLS A LA PEREGUEUX. Prepare two fowls, and draw them by the crop. Prepare also 2 lbs. of truffles, and make them as equal as possible, or cut them with a cutter ; mince the parings, and cook the whole in 1 lb. of rasped bacon, with pepper, salt, and spices, add a small clove of garlic; simmer them half an hour, shaking them carefully ; let them cool, stuff at the breast, truss for roasting, cover them with lard and two or three sheets of paper; tie them on the spit, do them an hour and a quarter, and serve them over a,peregueux or truffle sauce made of the parings, FOWLS, ROASTED, Well pepper and salt the fowls before you spit them; roast them be- fore a clear fire, and froth them up, when nearly done, by sprinkling them over with flour and salt, basting them with butter. When done be careful in taking out the skewers. Serve them with very good clear gravy in a dish, and bread or egg sauce in a boat. FOWLS ROASTED LIKE PHEASANTS. These must be full grown. Leave the heads on, truss them like pheasants, lard them with bacon, and roast them. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. FOWLS, STUFFING FOR. Chop finely i lb. of suet, and with it mix the same quantity of bread crumbs, a large spoonful of chopped parsley, nearly a tea-spoonful of thyme and marjoram mixed, one-eighth of a nutmeg, some grated lemon-peel, salt, and pepper, and bind the whole with two eggs ; a tea-spoonful of finely shred shallots or onions may be added at pleasure. FOWLS WITH TRUFFLES. Truss a large fowl as for boiling, and put truffles into the inside, well stewed and prepared ; then put it on the spit, with a slice of fat bacon on the breast, and paper tied over that; roast it well, set it on the dish, garnish it with truffles in sauce d VEspaqnole or brown sauce, and serve. FOWLS, WINGS OF, LARDED. Take ns many wings of fowls as 3'ou may require, lard them, and put them into a saucepan, with a slii.'e of veal, a little streaked bacon, and sweet herbs. When sufficiently done lay them iu a dish on any vegetable you please, previously boiling them in good broth, and serve them as a side dish. FOXGLOVE. See Digitalis and Anodyne. FRACTURE is the term applied to describe the place where a bone is broken. See Arm (Bkoken), Collar Bone, &c. Fractures are either simple or compound. A simple fracture is loss of continuity in the sub- stance of a bone, without a correspondent wouud through the flesh. The characteristics by which a simple fracture may be known are swelling, occasioned by an alteration in the shape of the part; loss of function ; acute pain, excited by the fractured ends of the bone lacerating the contiguous parts; and a grating noise of the bones them- selves. When the person afflicted is old and infirm, or a fracture attends a scorbutic habit, or when any of the large bones are broken near the extremities, and a high degree of inflammation takes place, there is more or less danger. Here it may not be improper generally to observe, that art can do nothing more towards the cure of a broken bone than to place it precisely in the position it was before the accident happened, and that the method of retaining it in that position is by bandages properly applied, and splints the length of the limb. To reduce a fracture of the leg and thighFRA [ 625 ] FEE fhe mnscles should be previously relaxed by bending the knee. The person afflicted should lie on the side injured in a relaxed position. The eighteen-tailed bandage, and splints the length of the limb, should be applied. If the fracture be in the leg these latter may be furnished with holes to receive the ankles. The food in urgent cases of simple fracture must be spai'e and light. It should consist of such articles as tea, gruel, and panado. Roasted apples with a little sugar, or toasted bread with currant jelly, are also proper, and by degrees the more solid articles of vegetable diet. The drink should be such as water with toasted bread, barley water, lem.oiiade, apple tea, or currant jelly mixed with water. Tlie liquids are to be given cool. There should be some lessening of the influence of the whole of the natural powers. Evacuations, which often become necessary, should be proportionate to the vigour of the constitution and to the inflammatory symptoms. The bandages must be moistened with vinegar. If the thigh bone or those of the leg be broken the person afflicted must keep his bed for several weeks, nor should he be raised and supported by a bed chair until after the second. A rigid regard must be paid to cleanliness. A compound fracture is loss of continuity in the substance of a bone, attended with a corre- spondent wound through the flesh. It may be known from simple fracture by the correspondent wound, and by the blood which issues from it. The danger will be proportioned to the loss of blood, the extent of inflammation, and the tendency to mortification. Should compound fracture take place in either of the extremities, when the vessels from which the blood proceeds are situated so deeply that they cannot be secured but by making two extensive incisions, and the ends of the bones are much shattered, immediate amputation is advisable. Should the blood be easily stopped the fractured bones are to be placed as nearly as possible in their natural position. Inflamma- tion is to be guarded against by vegetable diet, and by those means as regulated for simple fracture. If, notwithstanding every precaution, the inflammatory symptoms run so high as either to induce extensive mortification, or to endanger sinking under the discharge, amputation ought to be performed , but this is not to be done until the first inflammation subsides. The limb is, fi'om the commencement of the affection, to be retained in such a situation as to allow the wound to be dressed as a common sore, and protruding portions of the bone are to be removed. FRAISE, ALMOND. Blanch and steep 1 lb. of the best Jordan almonds in a pint of cream, and add ten yolks and four whites of eggs ; take out the almonds, and pound them in a mortar; then mix them again with the cream and eggs, put thereto sugar and grated bread, and stir the whole well together; lay some fresh butter in a pan, and when hot pour in the batter; keep stirring till it is of a good con- sistence, and when done turn it out into a dish with some sugar over it. FRAISE, BACON. Cut some streaked bacon into slices of about two inches in length ; make a good batter of eggs, milk, and flour; put lard or dripping into a frying-pan with the bacon, and when hot pour in the batter. Cover the whole with a dish till done. FRANGIPANE. Take a saucepan, and put into it four spoonsful of flour, five eggs, a pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, and a little salt; set it on the fire, stirring constantly until it has boiled ten minutes, and taking great care that it does not burn ; then pour it into a basin and let it cool. Take a few almonds (to every six sweet put one bitter), bruise them and some macaroons, aud when reduced to powder mix them with a little crisped orange flower (also in piwder), aud a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to sweeten it; add these to the above preparation, and stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If your frangipane be too thick add another egg or two, and then make whatever use of it you may desire. FRANGIPANE, POTATO. Whether the potatoes are boiled or cooked in steam, they must be well pounded in a mortar; add eggs, salt butter, rasped citron or lemon zest, bitter macaroons, and sugar, and use it for filling tu'tlets or making pasties. Carrot zests and all other roots may be used as above. FRECKLES are spots of a yellowish colour, about the size of a lentil seed, frequently appearing on the face, neck, and hands. These discolorations are either constitutional in the individual, or arise in consequence of the jaundice, or the action of the sun upon the part. Heat, or a sudden change of the weather, often causes the skin to assume a darker colour than natural, and thus produces what is called tan. sunburn, and morphew, which differ only in degree, and usually disappear in winter. Persons of a delicate complexion, and par- ticularly such as have naturally red hair, are most subject to freckles in the face and other parts exposed to the air. For the gratification of those who consider the removal of such little blemishes an object worthy of their attention wo communicate the following remedies:—FRE FRE [ 526 ] Ono of the best applications for dispersing freckles is a naixture of bullock's gall with a solution of alum, which, after the latter has subsided, must be digested in the sun for three or four months in a close phial. Another preparation is made by taking 4 ozs. of lemon juice, and mixing with it 2 drachms of sugar, and 1 drachm of borax finely powdered, and after these ingredients have stood a week or a fortnight in a glass bottle the liquor will be fit for use. As, however, freckles generally vanish during the winter, and have been obser\'ed to re-appear in early spring, the sharp morning air of which, though salubrious, is said to be un- commonly favourable to their reproduction, perhaps the most easy method of preventing them would be a careful attention to this circumstance. FREEMAN'S BATHING SPIRITS. Dis- solve 2 lbs. of soft soap and 2J ozs. of camphor in a mixture of 1 pint of spirit of wine and 1 pint of water. It differs but little from opodeldoc, and like it is used for removing pains by rubbing on the part affected. FREEZING MIXTURES are very useful for cooling water and wine, for rendering jelly, &c., firm, for making ices, and for medical applications where great cold is required. , Mix together lib. of nitrate of ammonia, 1 lb. of carbonate of soda, and 1 lb. of water. It will reduce the temperature to 7° below zero, or 39' below the cold which freezes water. Mix together 3 lbs. of sulphate of soda and 2 lbs. of diluted nitric acid. The temperature will fall to 30° below zero, or 02° below the freezing cold of water. Mix together 2 lbs. of snow or of pounded ice, and 1 lb. of common salt. The temperature will fall to 5° below zero. Mix together 2 lbs. of snow or pounded ice, and 3 lbs. of chloride of calcium. The tem- perature will fall to 50° below zero. FREEZING OF PIPES ANT) VESSELS. If any portion of the pipe or vessel is full the expansive power has very nearly as much effect upon the parts in contact as if it was full to the brim, and hermetically sealed. A pipe laid quite horizontally, and only partially filled, will not burst, because the water in freezing has room to expand ; but if it should incline from the level anywhere, so as to become Jilled in that particular part, the consequence would be a a-upture. The remedy for this is to take care that in frosty weather the water is not suffered to remain in the pipe, but drawn off' with force pumps. This is accomplished by means of a small plug, which is drawn out after a suffi- cient quantity of water is pumped, leaving the cylinder empty ; and the same may be effected with pipes leading about a house if the pre- caution is taken to place a stop-cock just out- side the tank, and a plug or small cork in the lowest part of the pipe, wherever it may be (and some convenient spot might be selected), so as to drain the water off whenever frost is. apprehended. The portion of pipe (a short piece) between the bottom of the tank and the ebop-cock should be very strong, and might be covered with straw or matting to prevent it freezing. With the water pipes fitted as we have described there will never be danger of a rupture unless from the neglect of servants. Water-closets seldom freeze, because the apparatus is so contrived as to shut the valve within the tank, and leave the pipe empty after each discharge. The same principle may be applied to the conducting pipes, or secured by the simple process of placing a stop-cock in the position we have described, but, if the pipe has a continual inclination, leaving the inner end open during frosty weather as soon as the stop- cock is shut. Water-bottles, ewers, &c., should not be allowed to stand with w'ater in to freeze i and bottles of preserves, of wine, beer, spiritSj or, in fact, any liquids, should be guarded against the effects of frost, which not only injures the quality of the liquor, but will probably burst the bottles. Above all things, vessels containing liquid should never be placed in positions where, by bursting, the contents would flow over and damage anything beneath. , ,i FRENCH BEANS. Cut off the stalk end first, and then turn to the point and strip off the strings. If not quite fresh have a bowl of spring water with a little salt dissolved in it standing before you, and as the beaus are cleaned and stringed throw them in. When all are done put them on the fire in boiling water with some salt in it; after they have boiled fifteen or twenty minutes take one out and taste it. As soon as they are tender take them up, and throw them into a cullender or sieve to drain. FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER USE. Gather them when young, and on a dry day; put ■ a layer of salt into a jar, and then one of about two inches thick of leaves; do this till the jar is nearly full; place a small plate upon the top of them, and tie a bladder closely over the jar. Keep it in a cool, dry place. When to be used soak them a night in cold water, and change it on them repeatedly in the course of the day they are to be dressed; cut them, and put them on in boiling water. FRENCH CHALK has no chalk nor any other salt of lime in it, being one of those popular names so calculated to mislead as " green copperas," which is a salt of iron without a particle of copper; and " blacklead," which is really a fine hard charcoal without an atom of[ 527 ] FRE FRI lead in it. French chalk is a mixture of fine siliceous sand and magnesia combined together. The powder of French chalk rubbed upon grease spots, a piece of paper placed on it, and pressed with a warm iron, removes them from silks and other materials they may have dis- figured. FRENCH POLISH. Shellac, H oz.; mastich, ^oz. ; sandarac, ^ oz.; rectified spirits of wine, 20 ozs. Mix them, and keep iti a gentle heat, frequently shaking the bottle until all the resins are dissolved. Apply very little ]o the furniture, and rub hard until the polish is established. FRENCH VARNISH FOR SHOES. This, called by the French cirage vernis, is made as follows :—Take 3 ozs. of logwood and 2 ozs. of nut-galls, bruise them, and boil them in 1 quart of light white wine, such as Cape, for half an hour; remove it from the fire, and add while hot 4 ozs. of gum arabic, A oz. of isinglass, and \ oz. of sulphate of iron. When the whole is thoroughly dissolved throw in a wine-glassful of best japanned ink, and \ pint of spirits of wine. This vamish should be laid on with a soft brush kept for the purpose, taking care that the boot or shoe is perfectly free from dirt. If previously blacked in the usual manner the coat of varnish laid over the blacking will give it additional lustre. As the crust accu- mulates when the varnish is used it will be necessary to sponge it off with warm water once in ten days or a fortnight. If wine is considered too expensive 2 ozs. of spirits of wine and 1 oz. of vinegar, with water to make up the quantity to a quart, may be substituted. FRENCH WOMAN COOK. A French authority observes as follows:—A really good cook ought to be that and nothing else ; all other house employment but cooking ought to be of no account to her. Being thus undisputed mistress of her entire time, she will consecrate herself to the right exercise of her important art. Always rising at daylight in winter, and at six o'clock on summer mornings, her first care is to put her kitchen in exact order, and keep everything in the most perfect state of cleanli- ness. These preliminary duties performed, she will put her broth pot on, and not fail to skim it ere she goes out to make purchases at the market. Thence returning as speedily as may be, she will begin her other preparations for dinner, the order of which will have been arranged with her employer the evening before; she will set down the entrees; she will dispose her entremets, also lard her roasts; in a word, she will put everything in proper condition to serve all up at the hour appointed, and so that evei-}-thing shall be in its place and nothing in arrear. When that hour is come she will pre- pare her broths, do up all her dishes, and dis- pose them in the order that each will appear. If she have the care of getting up the con- fectionery, &c., let her have the dessert prepared by the morning; and give, above all thiugs, her best attention to the coffee, which ought always to be carefully prepared without boiling. The tea, which is now beginning to supersede the former at some fanciful people's tables, being a simple infusion, demands not the same care, and in some sort makes itself; but both are to be provided, that all tastes may be instantly suited on demand. The dinner over, she will count the pieces of plate, clean, and lock them up; wash, or cause to be washed, the various dishes, &c.; and make out the daily bill of expenses, &c. In the evening, if such be the Custom of the family, she will reckon up with her employers, and will confer with them on the bill of fare for next day, indicating among the presented meats that are left what may appear with propriety again, either in their present shape or disguised in another, and what is to be turned over to the domestics and dependents of the house, or sold, or otherwise disposed of. It is fit and proper that, occupy- ing herself exclusively with the purchase and dressing of viands, and of attending to every- thing belonging to her kitchen, all the other household work should be done by others. Liberal wages, too, are justly due to such a one from the first, and these ought to be raised from time to time as her good qualities are brought more and more into play. She is to be treated with perfect kindness, but with no undue familiarity. She is to be made to under- stand at the same time that no dereliction of duty, no symptom of negligence, will ever be allowed to pass without remark, if not reproof. Lastly, but by no means least, let her most savoury achievements be handsomely spoken of to her advantage, for flattery is a greater moving power with women in general than interest. By such means, having chosen fit subjects to work upon, judicious masters and mistresses may even make good cooks, and keep them so. FRIAR'S BALSAM is known to medical men as tincture of benzoin. Take of benzoin powdered 3 ozs. ; balsam of Peru, 2 ozs. ; hepatic aloes in powder, \ oz.; rectified spirits of wine, 2 pints. Digest them in a gentle heat for three days, and then strain the balsam. This balsam, or rather tincture, is applied externally to heal recent wounds and bruises. It is likewise employed internally to remove coughs, asthmas, and other complaints of the breast. It is said to ease the colic, cleanse the kidneys, and to heal internal ulcers, &c. The dose is from twenty to sixty drops. This, though a medicine of some value, doesFRI [ 5-28 ] FRI not deserve tlie extravagant encomiums which have heea bestowed on it. It has been cele- brated under the different names of The Com- manders Balsam, Persian Balsam-, Balsam of Berne, Wade's Balsam, Jesuits'' Drops, Turling- ton's Drops, &c. FRIAR'S CHICKEN. Put 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal into four quarts of water; boil it gently for two hours ; sti'ain it off; cut three chickens or two joung fowls into joints ; skin them, and when the broth boils put them in; season with white pepper and salt; let them boil a short time, and add a handful of parsley chopped small. When the chickens are boiled tender have ready si.'c or seven well-beaten eggs, and stir them quickly into the broth one way immediately before taking it off the fire. This broth may be made entirely of veal instead of ctiicltGns. FRICANDEAU OF BEEF. Cut some slices of beef in lengths of five or six inches, and half an inch thick; lard them with bacon, dredge them well with flour, and set them before a brisk fire to brown; then put them into a tossing pan, with one quart of gravy, a few trufSes and morels, and half a lemon; let them stew half an hour, and then add a spoon- ful of catsup, as much browning, and a little Cayenne pepper; thicken your sauce, and pour it over the beef with forcemeat balls, and the yolks of hard eggs laid round the dish. FRICANDEAU OF PIGEONS. Truss them as for a pie, with their legs under their wings; lard them with bacon, and lay them in a stewpan, with the larded side downwards ; add the white of a leek cut small, and a pint of gravy; cover the pan, and set it over a slow fire, but towards the close make it brisker to reduce the liquor. When brown take out the pigeons, remove the fat, add some more gravy boiling hot, stir it three or four minutes, and pour it over the birds. Garnish with crisped parsley. FRICANDEAU OF TRIPE. Take some white tripe, and cut it in long strips ; make some forcemeat of veal well pounded, and seasoned with white pepper, salt, and nutmeg; add a little of the fat of the veal, and work the whole together with a raw egg. Spread a little of the egg over the inside of the tripe, and lay some of the forcemeat on each piece ; then roll and tie it up; lard the pieces thoroughly, glaze them with egg, and dredge over them a little flour; fry them in dripping, or do them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve them up with crisped parsley. The tripe must be boiled till very tender. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut slices of veal half an inch thick, lard them with small cardoon?, dish them with flour, and put them before the fire to bi'oil till brown; then put them into a tossing pan with a quart of gravy, and let them stew half an hour; put in two tea-spoonsful of lemon pickle, as much browning, a slice of lemon, a little anchovy and Cayenne, with a few morels and truffles. When tender take them up, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, strain it off, and pour it over the veal. Garnish with sliced lemon. FRICANDELLANS. Mince about 2 lbs. of tender lean beef, and \ lb. of fresh suet; then pound it till it is as smooth as a paste, and carefully pick out all the threads and sinews; add four well-beaten eggs, half a pint of rich cream, and as much grated and sifted bread as will make it sufficiently consistent to form into rolls resembling corks, and season it with salt and pepper. Boil the corks in some good stock, or in boiling water. FRICASSEE, BROWN. Take two or three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and stew them in gravy made of beef, some whole pepper, two shallots, one or two anchovies, a piece of horseradish, and a little sweet marjoram powdered small. Stew the rabbits about a quarter of an hour ; then take them out of the gravy, strain the liquor, fry your rabbits in lard or butter, and add a glass of claret. You may fry some forcemeat balls, made with the livers of the rabbits parboiled, a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, a few bread crumbs, and two buttered eggs; mix all these together, make them up into balls, dip them in the yolk of egg, and roll them in flour; then fry them, and garnish your dish with them, fried parsley, and sliced lemon. FRICASSEE, WHITE. Cut a couple of rabbits in pieces, and let them soak in warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; then lay them in a cloth to dry, put them into a stewpan with milk and water, and let them stew till they are tender; then take a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of cream and \ lb, of butter; stir them well together till the butter is melted; be careful to keep it constantly stirring, or it will be greasy; put in the rabbits; take a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, and a few mushrooms ; shake them together for a few minutes, and then put them to the rabbits. You may add white wine if you choose. FRICTION of the body, which can be per- formed either by the naked hand, a piece of flannel, or still better by a flesh-brush, is one of the most gentle and useful species of exercise. The whole body may be subjected to this mild operation, but principally the abdomen, the spine, the arms, and legs. It clears the skin, resolves stagnating humours, promotes perspi-FRI (1139 ] FRI ration, strengthens the fibres, and increases the ■warmth and energy of the whole system. In rheumatism, gout, palsy, and green sickness it is an excellent remedy. Daily friction of the whole body was with the ancients, and is still in the East Indies, con- sidered one of the most indispensable requisites of a people who, by their indolent manner of life, seem to have adopted it more with a view to indulge in sensual pleasures than as a pre- servative of health. It is, however, one of the most salutary expedients, by which the whole body receives nearly as much benefit as from a tepid bath, and which, as being in the power of every person, ought to be more frequently and more generally used. To the sedentary, the hypochondriac, and persons troubled with indigestion, who have not leisure to take suffi- cient exercise, the daily friction of the belly in particular cannot be too much recommended as a substitute for other means, in order to dissolve pituitous stagnations which may be forming in the abdomen, and to re-invigorate the vessels. And though it be not attended with all the advantages enjoyed from exercise in the open air, it still produces a powerful effect on the organs of digestion ; for the moderate exercise of a whole day will scarcely invigorate the ab- dominal vessels, and particularly the stomach, 60 much as the friction of these parts continued for half an hour. But if it be intended for these beneficial purposes it should be per- formed in the morning on an empty stomach, or in bed before we rise, gently and steadily in a circular direction, and at least for five or ten minutes at a time. In a weak state of the abdomen and the nerves in general we may derive still more salutary effects from friction if the stomach and the whole abdomen be rubbed every morning, and at night before going to bed, with a sponge or a piece of flannel dipped in cold water. This possesses still greater advantages over internal medicines, because it can be safely em- ployed even in cases were the alimentary canal, from its obstructed state, scarcely admits of any other remedy, while friction and the affusion of cold water generally relieve these obstructions, and even habitual costiveness. FRILL-WHIPPING. First divide the work, and mark it as for gathering. Hold the right side of the frill downwards next the forefinger, and roll the edge very tightly between the thumb and finger. Point the needle towards the chest, putting it in on the right side of the work, and bringing it out on the wrong side just below the roll. Place the stitches at such a distance that the thread may draw easily, taking particular care that the thread be strong and even. In sewing the frill on to the shirt. or whatever article it is intSnded for, hold the frill towards your bosom, and then take every whip up, observing that the needle must be a little slanted towards the left shoulder, that the thread may be between the whips. FRITTERS. Make them of any of tne batters directed for pancakes by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make a plainer sauce, and put pared apples sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or lemon sliced as thin as possible, are very nice. FRITTERS, ALTONA. 'Pare some fine pippin or bell-flower apples that are quite ripe, and of the largest size; then extract the cores with a tin apple corer, so as to leave the hole in the centre smooth and even. Spread the sliced apples on a large flat dish, and squeeze on each slice some lemon juice; then sprinkle them thickly with powdered white sugar. Prepare a batter made in the proportion of eight eggs to a quart of rich milk, and a pint and a half of sifted flour. Having beaten the eggs till very light and thick, add them gradually to the milk in turn with the flour, a little at a time of each, and stir the whole very hard. Have ready over hot coals a skillet, with a plentiful portion of the best fresh butter, melted and boiling hard. Dip the slices of apple twice into the batter, and then put them into the skillet of butter, as many at a time as it will contain without running into each other as they spread. While they are frying keep shaking the skillet about, holding it by the handle; they will puff up very lightly, and must be done of a bright brown. Take them out with a perforated skimmer that will drain off the butter. Have ready some powder sugar flavoured with nutmeg or cin- namon, roll the fritters in this, and send them to table hot. FRITTERS, BATTER FOR. Put into a large basin ^ lb. of flour, three spoonsful of oil, a little salt, and half a glass of water; lieat up this paste well with a wooden spoon; add water or beer until the batter is moderately thick, and then mix in gradually the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. The batter should be made two or three hours beforehand, so that the fritters may become lighter by fermentation. Serve them sprinkled with powder sugar, and, if you like, ice them in a Dutch oven. FRITTERS AU BLANC. Mix together a handful of rice flour and some milk, set it on the fire, stirring constantly, add a little cream, sugar, lemon-peel, and orange flowers, and when it has become of a proper consistence take it from the fire. As soon as it is cold roll it into balls about the size of a nut, dip them ia batter, and fry them. FRITTERS, BLONDIN Put some butter 3 M[ 530 ] FBI FRI into a saucepan, and when it is melted add to it a glass of railk and a pincli of salt; keep it on the fire till it boils, then mix it in a suffi- cient quantity of flour to make it into a con- sistent paste which will not stick to the fingers, spread it on a table, roll it out to the thickness you may require, cut it in round, oval, or any other formed pieces you may think proper, fry them of a nice colour in the best oil, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them. FRITTERS, BREAD. Pick, wash, and dry i lb. of Zante raisins, and having spread them out on a flat dish, dredge them well with flour; grate some bread into a pan till you have a pint of crumbs, pour over the grated bread a pint of boiling milk, into which you have stirred, as soon as taken from the fire, a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg ; cover the pan, and let it stand an hour; then beat it hard, and add nutmeg, J lb. of powdered white sugar stirred in gradually, and two table-spoonsful of the best brandy. Beat six eggs till very light, and then stir them by degrees into the mixture. Lastly, add the currants a few at a time, and beat the whole very hard. It should be a thick batter: if you find it too thin add a little flour. Have ready over the fire a frying-pan of boiling lard, put in the batter in large spoonsful so as not to touch, and fry the fritters a light brown; drain them on a perforated skimmer, or an inverted sieve placed in a deep pan, and send them to table hot. Eat them with wine and powder sugar. FRITTERS A LA COTE. Soak in brandy some leaves and the young and tender shoots of the vine; dip them in a batter made of milk, yolks of eggs, and flour; fry them in boiling oil, and sprinkle with sugar. FRITTERS A LA DAUPHINE. Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it out as thin as possible to the form of a long square; on part of this lay small quantities of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly wet the paste round each piece of preserve, and lay over the plain part of the paste so as to cover the other completely; press it down lightly that the marmalade may not escape in the cooking, and cut out your fritters with a circular paste cutter two inches in diameter; flour them a little, and then lay them in rather a hot friture, when the paste will swell them into little balls. As soon as they are of a proper colour take them out, drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with fine sugar, and serve them. FRITTERS, ENGLISH AND FRENCH. Take a marrow pudding, and when nearly cold cut it into thin slices ; then cut them again into pieces two inches long by three quarters of an inch wide, dip them in batter, and fry them in the usual manner. When drained glaze them with fine sugar, anl serve them verv hot. FRITTERS, GREEN. These are made like sweetmeat fritters, but coloured with the juice of spinach, extracted by pounding in a mortar. FRITTERS, INDIAN. Having beaten eight eggs till very light, stir them gradually into a quart of rich milk in turn with twelve large table-spoonsful of yellow Indian meal, adding a salt-spoonful of salt. When all is in stir the whole very hard ; have ready over a clear fire, in a pot or large frying-pan, 1 lb. of fresh lard boil- ing fast, and drop the batter into it a ladleful at a time. If you find the batter too thin stir into it a little moi'e Indian meal, and as the lard boils away replenish it with more. As fast as they are done take out each fritter with a perforated skimmer, through the holes of which let the lard drip back into the pot. The fritters must all be well drained. Send them to table hot, and eat them with wine and sugar, or with molasses. In cooking these fritters you may drop in three or four, one immediately after the other, and they will not*run if the lard is boiling fast and the batter thick enough, and made with a proper number of eggs. FRITTERS, MIGNON. Put two good spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, and mix it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, a little salt, 2 ozs. of sugar, some lemon-peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and the same of cream; stir the whole over a slow fire, and when done and well thickened spread the cream over a floured dish, shake flour over it, and when cold cut it into bits with a paste cutter; dip each bit into a paste made with two spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, mixed with two eggs. Fry the fritters, and serve glazed with sugar and a salamander. FRITTERS, ROYAL. Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it begins to boil pour in a pint of white wine; then take it off, let it stand five or six minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin ; beat it up well with six eggs, and season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a whisk, and add sufficient flour to give it the proper consistence of batter. Put in some sugar, and fry the fritters quickly. f FRITTERS, SOUFFLE. Make some flour and beer into a batter that will flow a little;' then take some of it out with a spoon, throw it into a frying-pan with boiling oil, and the moment it rises take it out. Proceed in the same way till all the batter is used; then sprinkle the fritters with salt, and serve. FRITTERS EN SURPRISE. Take eight middling-sized apples, pare them, and leave on the stalks; cut off about a fourth part of theFRI r 531 ] FRO stalk end of each apple, and scoop out the inside of each piece so as to foi-m a sort of cup with a lid; put them to soak for two hours in a glass of brandy, with a little lemon-peel and cinna- mon. At the end of that time take them out, drain, and fill each apple with apricot marmalade or frangipane; mix up a little flour and white of egg to cement the tops of the apples to the other parts, dip them in batter, and fry them. When they are of a proper colour glaze and serve them. FRITTERS, SWEETMEAT. Having boiled a large beet till it is tender all through, and scraped off the outside, cut it into pieces, and pound them in a marble mortar till you have extracted the juice; then stir into a quart of milk enough of the beet juice to give it a deep red colour, beat seven eggs till very smooth and light, and stir them gradually into the milk alternately with a pint and a half of sifted flour. The red colour will look paler after the egg is mixed with the milk. If you find it too pale add more beet j uice. Have ready some boiling lard in a frying-pan over the fire, and when it has ceased to bubble, and the surface become smooth, put in the mixture by spoonsful, so as to form round or oval cakes of an equal size, and fry them a light brown. If you find the batter too thin stir in a little more flour. As the fritters are done take them out on a perforated skimmer, draining the lai'd back into the frying-pan ; dredge the fritters thickly with powder sugar, and lay on each some pre- served peach, plum, or other sweetmeat. You may heap on every one a spoonful or more of marmalade. Send them to table hot. FRITTERS, WASHINGTON. Boil four large potatoes, peel them, and when cold grate them as finely as possible. Mix well together two large table-spoonsful of cream, two table- spoonsful of sweet white wine, half a grated nutmeg, two table-spoonsful of powdered sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Beat eggs very light, omitting the whites of two, and then mix them gradually with the cream, wine, &c., alternately with the grated potato, a little at a time of each. Beat the whole together at least a quarter of an hour after all the ingredients are mi.xed. Have ready in a frying-pan over the fire a large quantity of boiling lard, and when the bubbling has subsided put in spoons- ful of the batter, so as to make well-formed Iritters; fry them a light brown, and take them up with a perforated skimmer, so as to drain them from the lard ; lay them on a hot dish, and send them immediately to table. Serve up with them in a boat a sauce made in the proportion of two glasses of white wine, the juice of two lemons, and a table-spoonful of peach water, or a glass of rose water. Make the sauce very sweet with powdered white sugar, and grate nutmeg into it. FRITTERS, WINE. Beat six eggs till very thick and smooth, and when they are quite light beat into them gradually six table-spoons- ful of sweet Malaga or muscadel wine, and six table-spoonsful of powdered white sugar. Have ready a sufficient number of large fresh milk biscuits, split in two, soaked in a bowl of sweet wine about five minutes, and drained on a sieve. Put some fresh lard into a frying-pan, and when it boils and has been skimmed dip each piece of the split biscuit into the batter of wine, eggs, and sugar, and fry them a light brown. When done take them up with a perforated skimmer, and drain them well from the lard Strew powdered white sugar over them. FROCK-MAKING. The cut and fashion of frocks vary so frequently that directions given in accordance with the fashion of to-day may be scarcely of any use to-morrow. If the material out of which a frock or any other dress is to be made be of a printed or worked pattern, differing on the two sides, great atten- tion is necessary in cutting, so that the backs, sides, and sleeves may be made to correspond. To prevent mistakes, and insure their answering for the contrary sides, cut them from the cloth with corresponding sides, whether right or wrong, placed together. The pattern should always proceed upwards; then, as the sleeves are cut angularly, the pattern should proceed towards the shoulder, and the straightest part of each sleeve should be set into the front of the frock. The gores should be introduced upon the same rules, placing the sloped side of the gore to the back of the dress. In printed articles, or any the sides of which are different, you do not cut one gore out of the other. On the contrary, fold the cloth double with the selvages to- gether, and cut a piece diagonally from the centime FRONTIGNAN WINES. There are several varieties of wines included under tliis name grown in Herault, all of which are sweet, rich, and luscious, and the red varieties are used to strengthen weaker sorts. Of the red varieties Bt. George d'Orques, Verargues, and St. Christol are mostly used for that purpose. The white varieties with a Muscat flavour are the Frontignan properly so called, which rank next to those of Rivesaltes, the best in France. They have a light colour, a luscious taste, and a grape flavour, and contain 12-79 per cent, of alcohol. They improve by age, and bear car- riage well both by land and sea. Lunel, or C'los Mazet, is less luscious than Frontignan, has less body, and does not keep so long. It is ot a bright yellow colour, and the best vai'ieties of it areFRU I 6S2 ] esteemed as liigTily as tliose of Frontignan. They contain 15-52 per cent, of alcohol. FROTH FOR CREAMS OR CUSTARDS. Sweeten ^Ib. of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit; put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them till it will stand as high as you wish, and being put on the cream, &c., with a spoon, it will take any form: it should be rough to imitate a rock. FROZEN or Frost-bitten. When a per- son has been long exposed to the action of cold, suffering a general numbness and a sort of intoxication, he quickly falls asleep, and. becomes quite insensible. It sometimes happens that he returns to his senses without assistance, but he more frequently dies. Our duty is to remove him to a convenient , place, where the necessary aid can be given. If the body be naked it should be covered, but the head left bare. The body should, if possible, be plunged into the snow, and rubbed gently with it, direct- ing the friction from the stomach towards the extremities. In a few minutes after the friction should be with cloths steeped in cold water, the temperature of which is to be gradually in- creased ; in a word, great care must be taken that the body be not heated suddenly, but slowly and by degrees. If neither ice nor snow can be procured the body must be placed in a bath of cold water, gradually raising the temperature, and con- tinuing the friction as before directed : water may also be sprinkled upon the face. The lips and nostrils should be irritated with a feather, or other light substance, and the lungs must be inflated as mentioned under the article Deowned, Apparently. Volatile alkali, or other stimu- lating substances, should also be applied to the nose. When the body is restored to a degree of warmth, and the limbs become flexible, it should be placed in a dry, but not warm bed, and be rubbed with a brush. A stimulating clyster may now be administered. When the power of swallowing is restored we should give some vinegar and water, mint water, thin broth, or water with a very small quantity of wine. Solid food ought not to be allowed until several hours after complete restoration. Frozen limbs ought to be treated in the same manner as above, except that only the parts affected are to be placed in a cold bath, and the friction confined to the same. Six or seven drops of aromatic spirits of ammonia may be given, mixed with a little orange-flower water, or with simple water. FRUIT : To Prepare for Children. Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them; place the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is per- fectly done. FRUIT : To Preserve Green. Take pip- pins, apricots, pears, plums, or peaches, while they are green ; put them in a preserving pan, cover them with vine leaves, and then with fine clear spring water ; put on the cover of the pan, set them over a very clear fire, and when they begin to simmer remove them from the fire, and carefully take them out with the slice; peel and preserve them as other fruit. FRUIT : To Preserve for Tarts. Gather cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over each jar 6 ozs. of good loaf sugar pounded ; cover with two blad- ders, each separately tied down ; then put the jars up to the neck in a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from damp. FRUIT, ARTIFICIAL. Save the stalks of any kind of fruit with the stones ; take some tins very smooth on the inside, and of the shape intended ; leave a hole to put in the stone and stalk, and so contrived as to open in the middle to take out the fruit; have also a wooden frame to mix them in. Take some stron-J jelly, strain it, put it into a saucepan, sweeien it, add perfumed lemon-peel, and colour it according to the fruit represented. Stir the whole, and boil it; fill the tins, and put in the stones and stalks. When cold open the moulds, and put on the bloom. FRUIT BEVERAGES. These may be made of any kind of fresh or preserved fruits, heightened by an addition of their essences. Lemons, China or Seville oranges, sweet or bitter almonds, syrups, capillaire, &c., peach, necta- rine, apricot, and cherry kernels ought to be preserved for making them, but not used in too great a quantity in these mixtures. FRUIT BISCUITS. To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal quantity of sugar sifted, and beat it two hours ; then put it into little white paper forms ; dry them in a cool oven, turn them the next day, and in two or three days box them. FRUIT, BISCUITS OF PRESERVED. Take dried preserved fruits, such as apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange-flower marmalade ; pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; then mix with it yolks of new-laid eggs and fine powder sugar until it comes to a supple paste, but not too liquid; then bake them on paper in a moderate oven. FRUIT FOR BRANDY. Take the pro- posed quantity of fruits gathered before they are perfectly ripe, dry them carefully, prickFEU FRU [ 533 ] aad put them into cold water. When all in, set the vessel over a moderate fire, keeping the water, however, constantly nearly boiling until the fruits will give to the touch; then throw them with great care into cold water again; drain away this water, and add fresh; change the water twice more within a quarter of an hour, after which drain them for the last time, and put them into broken bottles. If any of the fruit is the least broken or bruised it must be put aside, as it would spoil the rest. In the meanwhile take a proper quantity of sugar, as ] ^ lb. for twenty-five peaches; clarify and boil it to la nappe; measure, and put double its quantity of good brandy; mix and pour them into a glazed pan ; let them stand awhile, and then pour the mixture on the fruit. FRUIT, CANDIED. It must first be pre- served, then dipped in warm water, dried with a cloth, strewed all over with sifted sugar, and again dried in a stove or oven, turning it as occasion requires. FRUIT CHEESECAKES Wlien a number of orange or lemon custards are made part of them may be put into a mortar, with prepared orange or lemon-peel, zest, and sugar, and filled into cheesecake cases. FRUIT, CONSERVE OF. Take currants, strawberries, cherries, and raspberries, of each 1 lb.; press the juice from them, strain it, and set it over a moderate fire till reduced to half the quantity. Dissolve 12 lbs. of sugar, skim it well, and boil it to casse; take it from the fire, add the juice, and replace it; let it boil only once, and then stir it till the sugar bubbles. Have your cases or moulds ready, and pour the conserve into them. FRUIT CREAM is made like blanc- mangers, the fruit sweetened and raised by its essences, and enough of fish, heel, isin- glass, jelly, or eggs to thicken. It may be coloured and moulded into any form. FRUIT, DRIED (au Caramel). Cut a number of osier twigs to about three inches in length, and on the end of each place dry pre- served fruit; then take a small piece of butter, which nmst be perfectly free from either salt or water, as otherwise it will adhere to the marble slab, on which it must be rubbed with the palm of the hand all over. The preparations properly performed, take some clarified sugar (the quantity must be in proportion to the fruit), and boil it to caramel: then take an osier twig in each hand, dip the fruit in the sugar, and turn them round several times that the sugar may adhere on all sides. When the caramel begins to cool lay the fruit on the buttered slab, and proceed in the same way with the remainder of the fruit until as many are done as are required. When all are done and cold take out the twigs, and wrap each fruit in paper with a device as usual. As these operations cannot be performed too quickly it would be advisable to have two or more persons to do them. FRUIT IN JELLY Have in readiness a plain mould, either long or round, about three inches deep ; then have ready some mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom of the mould about a quarter of an inch thick; let it be cold ; then put in ripe peaches, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you please,- preserved fruit, or China oranges cut in quarters, or whatever shape you choose; put in a little warm jelly, and let it stand till it is cold to fasten the fruit in its place, otherwise it will rise up; then fill the mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it is quite cold, turn it into a dish, and garnish it according to your own taste. FRUIT PUDDING, BAKED. Rub goose- berries or any other fruit through a hair-sieve, and to half a pint of fine pulp add Jib. of Naples biscuits, 3 ozs. of oiled fresh butter, half a pint of cream, grated nutmeg, sugar according to taste, and six eggs. Beat all these ingredients together for ten minutes, add slices of citron, and bake the mixture in a dish with puff paste round the rim. FRUIT, PUFFS OF PRESERVED. Roll out thin good puff paste, and cut it into pieces; lay a small quantity of any kind of jam on each, double them over, and cut them into shapes; lay them with paper on a baking plate, ice them, and bake them about twenty minutes without colouring. FRUIT STAINS ON LINEN. As white napkins are used for wiping the fingers after eatmg fruit, let them, as soon as taken from the table, be thrown into a large vessel of clean water. If hot water is at hand it will be better than cold. Leave them to soak during the remainder of the day, then take them out, put them where they will dry, and you will generally find that the fruit stains have disappeared. If any remain, wet the stains with hot water, and then rub on them some lemon juice or salt of lemon powder, washing it off as soon as it has removed the stain. Cream of tartar will sometimes produce this effect. It is scarcely possible to get a stain out of any sort of linen after it has been previously washed with soap. FRUIT STORING. If a fruit room be built over a place where there is a free circula- tion of air, its roof double ceiled, the walls lined with wood, a cavity being left between these two, it will possess the essential properties for preserving fruit from decay. The more important principles necessary to attend to with regard to the long keeping of[ 534 ] FUL FRTJ fruit are uniformity of temperature, coolness, aud darkness. If the temperature is uniform there can be little or no deposition of moisture on the surface of the fruit; but if the air of the room should be say ten degrees warmer than the fruit, then the relative coldness of the latter will cause a condensation of the moisture contained in the air in contact with the fruit, just as a cold glass becomes dewed over when brought into a warm atmosphere. If the air is indeed very dry, then a proportionably greater difference of temperature is necessary to produce the above effect; but in winter the hygi'ometer seldom requires to be cooled more than a few degrees before it indicates a deposition of moisture. Fruits with smooth glossy skins, in close con^ tact with the cold substance beneath them, are those most profusely covered with moisture from the above cause. In russeted varieties their dry rough coats serve as non-conductors of heat, and hence less moisture is deposited on them. When the air becomes colder than the fruit a contrary action—that of evaporation-^ takes place, and the surface of the fruit becomes dry; but this wetting and drying must prove very injurious, whilst their cause, alternations of temperature, must likewise affect the specific gravity of the juices of the fruit. It may be remarked that in giving air a period of the day should be chosen when the thermometer outside indicates tlie same tem- perature as that in the room. No deposition of moisture can then take j^lace in consequence. With regard to coolness, it is well known that this condition is favourable to the long keeping of fruit, for we act on the contrary when we wish to render any variety fit for use before its usual time. The fruit room in question must be cooler on an average than if it had been on the ground; for the latter, under a building particularly, is much warmer than the air in winter. Light accelerates the maturity and ultimate decay of fruit exposed to its intluence. If the soundest specimens are picked and placed opposite a window, they soon become much inferior in appearance compared with those from which the light is excluded, all other circumstances being the same. Those who have not a specially constructed fruit room will find their apples and pears keep extremely well in broini pans, with closely ^fitting covers, jjlaced in a cool dryish cellar. FRUITS, CHEMISE OF. Prepare them as for the caramel in every respect, but have something firm and soft to stick tbem upright in ; dip them in nice prepared isinglass or well- whipped white of egg, hold them over white paper, and sift over them double-refined sugar in the finest powder, which may be coloured to give more effect to the different fruits. FRUMENTY. Boil a quart of fine wheat, and gradually add thereto a couple of quarts of new milk. Wash 4 ozs. of currants, stir them in the jelly, and boil the whole together till thoroughly done. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with a little nutmeg and two or three spoonsful of milk, and add this to the boiled frumenty. Sweeten it with sugar, and serve it hot or cold. FUEL. See Coal, Coke, Charcoal, Wood, &e. FULLERS' EARTH is a mineral composed of siliceous sand, alumiua (clay), magnesia, lime, potash, &c. Its utility arises from the four constituents last named. This earth is hard, firm, aud of a compact texture, but soft to the touch, and neither stains the hands nor easily breaks between the fingers. Its surface is somewhat rough and harsh, it dissolves easily in the mouth, and in a slight degree adheres to the tongue. When thrown into water it does not cause any effervescence, but gradually in- creases in size, and subsides iu a fine soft powder. The finest fullers' earth in the world is ob- tained from the pits at Wavedon, near Wobum, Bedfordshire, where strata of it are found at the depth of ten or twelve feet from the surface of the ground. This earth is also found in abundance, and of a good quality, in pits near Brick-hill, in the county of Stafford; near Rye- gate, Surrey; Maidstone, Kent; and in the vicinity of Nutley and Petworth, in the county of Sussex, Incalculable quantities of fullers' earth are consumed in this country in the scouring of cloths, stuffs, &c., for which it is of the greatest utility, as it imbibes all the grease and oil used in the preparing, dressing, &c., of wool. As an article of domestic economy it might be more frequently employed than it is at present, espe- cially in the cleaning and scouring of wooden floors and wainscots, being an excellent sub- stitute for soap. Fullers' Earth Balls. These are useful for renaoyiijg grease spots from cloth, aud are prepared as follows:—Take fullers' earth, and dry it before the fire or in the sun until it crumbles to powder; moisten it with strained lemon juice, add a small quantity of fine pearl- ash, and knead the whole up together till it acquires the consistence of stiff elastic paste. Mould it into any shape you please, and dry the balls thoroughly in the sun ; they are then ready for use as follows:—Moisten the spot on the cloth with water, then rub it with the ball, and place it in the sun to dry; next beat out the dust, wash the cloth with clean water, and the spot will disappear. See also Balls, Clothes, and Balls, Scdurin[ 535 ] FUM FUR FUMIGATION, if intended merely to over- come unpleasant smells, or to raise an agreeable perfume, may be thus effected :—Powder equal quantities of olibanum, amber, and mastich, and one-third of the same quantities of storax and benzoin; mix well together, and sprinkle a little on red-hot coals. Fumigation for disinfecting rooms where con- tagious or infectious diseases have occurred may be thus effected, previously removing all metallic articles and coloured furniture :—Cany common salt, 3 ozs.; black manganese and oil of vitriol, of each 1 oz.; water, 2 ozs.; mixed in a cup through the apartments of the sick; or the apartments intended to be fumigated, where sickness has been, may be shut up for an hour or two, and then opened. Fumigation with tar, which often affords great relief to persons suffering from coughs and affections of the air passages, is made thus Mix together 1 lb. of Norway tar and \ oz. of carbonate of potash, and keep the whole heated in a tin vessel over a spirit lamp. FUR. Fur is of various kinds, and very differing in beauty and value. The ermine, called by way of pre eminence " the preciovs ermine," is found almost exclusively in the cold regions of Europe and Asia. The stoat, which, iu fact, is identical with the ermine, but tl.e fur of which is greatly inferior to that of the European and Asiatic animal, is found in North America. The fur of the ermine is of a pure whiteness throughout, with the exception of tlie tip of the tail, which is black ; and the spotted appearance of ermine skins, by which they are peculiarly known, is produced by fastening these black tips at intervals on the skins. The sable is a native of Northern Europe and Siberia. The siuns of best quality are procured by the Samoieds, and in Yakutsk, Kamtschatka, and Russian Lapland: those of the darkest colour are the most esteemed. Martens are found in North America, as well as in Northern Asia and the mountains of Kamtschatka. The American skins are generally the least valued, but many among them are rich, and of a beautiful dark- brown olive colour. The fiery fox, so called from its brilliant red colour, is taken near the north-eastern coast of Asia, and its fur is much valued, both for its colour and fineness, in that quarter of the world. Nutria skins are obtained from South America, and the greater part of the importations in this country come from the states of the Rio de la Plata. These skins are of recent introduction, having first become an article of commerce in 1810. The fur is chiefly used by hat manufacturers as a substitute for beaver. Sea-otter skins were first sought for their fur in the early part of the eighteenth century, when they were brought to Western Europe from the Aleutian and Kui-ile Islandg, where, as well as in Behring's Island, Kamt- schatka, and the neighbouring American shores, sea-otters are found in great numbers. The fur of the young animal is of a beautiful brown colour, but when older the colour becomes jtt hlack. The fur is exceedingly fine, soft, and close, and bears a silky gloss. Fur-seals are found in great numbers in the colder latitudes of the southern hemisphere. South Georgia, in 55° S. lat., was explored by Captain Cook in 1771, and immediately thereafter was resorted to by the colonists of British America, who conveyed great numbers of seal-skins thence to China, where very high prices were obtained. The South Shetland Islands, in 63° S. lat., were greatly resorted to by seals, and soon after the discovery of these islands in 1818 great numbers were taken. In 1821 and 1822 the number of seal-skins taken on these islands aloi:e amounted to 320,000. Bears of various kinds and colours, many varieties of foxes, beavers, racoons, badgers, minks, lynxes, mush-rats, rabbits, hares, ai d squirrels are procured in North America. Of all the American varieties the fur of the blaik fox, sometimes called the silver fox, is the mo:-t valuable. Next to that in value is the fur of tl e red fox, which is exported to China, where it is used for trimmings, linings, and robes, which are ornamented in spots or waves with the black fur of the paws of the same animal. The fur of the silver fox is also highly esteemed. This is a scarce animal, inhabiting the woody country below the falls of the Columbia river. It has long thick fur of a deep lead colour, intermingled with long hairs white at the top, forming a lustrous silver grey, whence the animal derives its name. The hides of bisons (improperly called buffaloes), of the sheep of the RocKy Mountains, and of various kinds of deer, form part of the fur trade of North America; and sometimes the skin of the uhite arctic fox and of the polar bear are found in the packs brought to the European traders by the most northern tribes of Indians. There is but one species of fur •which is peculiar to England, the silver-tipped rabbit of Lincolnshire. The colour of the fur is grey of different shades, mixed with longer hairs tipped with white. This fur is but little used in Eng- land, but meets with a ready sale in Russia and China. The dark-coloured skins are preferred in the former country, and the lighter-coloured in China. Furs and woollens should not be laid by for the summer months without having the dust well shaken out of them, and care taken that they are quite free from damp; for dust and moisture are the great foes to be guardedFUR FUR [ 536 ] against in the first instance, as tending to encourage the increase of moths and other insects. Many things are used as preventives against the inroads of moths, such as sprinkling furs and woollens with spirits of turpentine, putting camphor, peppercorns, cedar shavings, find Russian leather amongst them ; hut the best plan is to sew the furs up in linen well tired, through which the moth cannot penetrate; and once or twice in the course of the summer to have them taken out on fine sunny days, and, after being well shaken, replaced in their envelopes, and put aside. Wash white furs in a cold lather of soap and water, with a small portion of soda and blue mixed into it; then draw them through the hand the same as a flannel through several lathers until they ai'e quite clean, rinse them in clean water, and after shaking them well hang them up to dry, They must he shaken often while drying, and they will look as well as new. A fur flounce is fixed only at its upper edge by being felled down, the lower edge remaining free. If the fur be in the form of bordering for edges it is felled down at the inner edge like a flouncing, and the lining of the garment is run against the other edge. A fur collar has generally to he lined with silk before it is set on. It is slightly wadded to preserve the silk from being rubbed and worn by the leather. The raw edge of the silk being turned in, the lining is then I'un with a double running against the back of the fur. The collar is then stitched to the cloak or pelisse, and the lining felled down, or the join is backed by a stout ribbon. FUR IN KETTLES. The calcareous de- posit in kettles, usually called " the fur," arises either from the gypsum (sulphate of lime) or the chalk (carbonate of lime) in the water boiled in them. These salts are kept dissolved in the water by the carbonic acid gas it contains, and when this gas is driven off by the boiling the salts fall upon the bottom and sides, and are baked into the hard crust. If gypsum is the cause of the fur, as much carbonate of ammonia as will lie upon a sixpence, put into a two-quart kettle when first put upon the fire, or the same quantity of sulphate of ammonia if the fur arises from chalk, will prevent the evil. FURMENTY and Firmitv. See Frumpntt. FURNITURE RALLS. See Balls, Fub- UITUEE. FURNITURE, CLEANING. If mahogany has been cleaned with a mixture of a dark colour, and the furniture has become old, it will be impossible to make it look light-coloured unless it be planed. This is not easily done ; therefore when it is of a light colour, and is to be kept so, you must be very particular in what mixture you put on it, as none which is of a dark colour should be put on mahogany which is intended to be kept a light colour. If you have two sorts of mahogany, that is, light and dark, you should have two sorts of paste or oil to do them with , but if the dai-k mahogany be as dark as it is wanted, the paste or oil which is used for the light will do for the dark, as the polish will not be affected by its colour; and it may, therefore, in such case, be used for both without keeping two sorts. Keep your paste or oil in a proper can or jar, that you may not run any risk of upsetting it when you are using it. Whether you use oil or paste you must have two pieces of woollen cloth, one for rubbing it on, the other for rubbing it dry and polishing; you must likewise have an old linen cloth to finish with, which you should keep for this use only, and not dirty it with anything else. Have a piece of smooth soft cork to rub out the stains with, and use a brush if the paste is hard, as you will not be able to put it on with a woollen cloth if it is very stiff. Always dust the table well before the oil or paste is put on, and if it should be stained with anything rub it with a damp sponge, and then with a dry cloth. If the stain does not disappear rub it well with the cork or a brush; but let it be rubbed the way the wood grows, for if you rub it cross-grained you will scratch it. Be careful to keep the cork and brush free from dust and dirt. When you have cleaned the dust off, and got the stains out, put on your oil or paste, but not too much at a time, and rub it well into the wood. If you use oil be as quick as you possibly can in rubbing it over the table, and then polish it with another woollen cloth. If you use wax put a little bit on the woollen cloth with your finger, or a small stick: rub it well with this till the table looks of a high polish, and then have another cloth to finish it with. If you use paste and oil to different furniture you must have different cloths to rub it with : do not use one for the other, as it will not answer to do so. Be very careful to have the edges of the tables well cleaned, and the oil and wax well rubbed off: if this be not attended to the ladies and gentlemen will get their clothes dirtied when sitting near the table. It perhaps will be necessary to wash the tahles sometimes, as, where too much wax or oil has been put on, and not well rubbed off, the dust will settle, and you will find it im- possible to get it off without. In such cases they must be washed all over with a sponge or flannel dipped in hot beer; then rub them dry as quickly as possible with a linen cloth, and put the oil or paste on as before directed,FUR [ 537 ] GAL rubbing it well in, as they will require more rubbing after washing, but they will look of a lighter colour and a higher polish than they did before. Never use the beer boiling hot, or leave it on too long. Sideboards and cellarets frequently have brass rods or ornaments of brass about them, which must be cleaned also. This ought to be done before the mahogany is cleaned, and in doing it great care must be taken that you do not dirty the mahogany. If there be any fly-dirt on the brass take it off with a piece of flannel well soaped; then polish it with the leather you clean your plate with, but do not rub it on the mahogany. If the brass which is on the cellai'et has got the lacker worn ofl you must polish it with a bit of leather and brickdust, the same as you do steel forks : be very careful not to rub the brickdust into the wood. Wrap the leather uj) in a small compass when you clean it, this will keep the brickdust from flying about the furniture When you have done the brass you must be careful that you do not dirty it with the oil or paste you may use in cleaning the mahogany. The furniture which is not in constant use will not require to be oiled as often as that which is. Once a week will be quite enough— oftener will do it harm rather than good ; it ought, however, to be dusted every day, and well rubbed. If it be kept covered with green cloth it will not want so much rubbing. Tables which are used daily must be well rubbed every morning, and great care should be taken to remove all spots from them, particularly ink. This you can do very easily, if it is not left to dry in a great while, by putting a little oxalic acid or salt of lemons on the spots of ink ; then have the end of a cloth just dipped into hot water, and rub the salt of lemons or oxalic acid on with your finger: this will remove them directly. If you use oil for tables never let it stand on long, nor put on too much at a time. If you do the damp will rise when hot dishes are put on, or anything else which is hot; therefore wax is preferable to oil, as it is very disagreeable to have much damp to wipe off the table when the company are seated round it, which must be done, or else it will look dull and clouded after the hot dishes are taken off; and it is an offensive appearance when one part is of a high polish, and the other looks dull and smeary. When you clean the tables or chairs be careful to remove them into the middle of the room, or at a distance from the wall, or any- thing which they may stand near. When this is not done the walls where the tables and isdeboai-d have stood are often smeared with the mixtuie the furniture has been cleaned with : this has not only a slovenly appearance, but likewise disfigures the wall. If the side- board or side-table is fixed to the wall you must be the more careful in cleaning it, and roll up your woollen cloth, or whatever you rub it with, tightly in your hand, and into a small compass. Polish for Mahogany Furniture. Take J2 ozs. of bees' wax scraped finely, put it into a pot or jar, and pour over it enough spirits of turpentine to cover it. Let it stand a little while, and it will be ready. If the furniture is to be kept a light colour add nothing to it; but if it is wished to have it a darker colour take a very small quantity of alkanet root or rose pink, and mix with it. Oil for Furniture. Take a pint of cold- drawn linseed oil, and if you wish to colour it take a little alkanet root or rose pink, and mix with it. Put a little on the furniture, and rub it well with a woollen cloth. Do not let the oil stand long on the table before it is rubbed off, as the sooner it is done the bettei'. German Polish for Furniture. Melt 1 oz. of black resin and I lb. of yellow wax in an earthen pipkin, and pour in by degrees 2 ozs. of spirits of turpentine. When the whole is well incorporated put it in an earthen jar, and keep it closely covered for use. Wlien you use it spread a little of it on the furniture with a woollen cloth, arid rub it well in. In a few days the polish will be as hard and bright as varnish. In trying a new receipt like this it is a good caution to begin with some trifling article of furniture to see how it succeeds, as otherwise you may spoil valuable things. FURNITURE OIL. Take 1 quart of cold-drawn linseed oil, 2 ozs. of spirits of salts, 1 oz. of oil of cloves, and pint of cold spring water; to be well mixed, and shaken every time it is used, This receipt will be found invaluable for cleaning rosewood, or any article of furniture with French polish. No hot dishes, &c., can injure it, and it will take out all stains. It should be rubbed on with a silk handkerchief or piece of fine linen rag, and the mixture should be allowed to remain upon the table ov article of furniture a few minutes before it is rubbed on. It will give the brightest polish to new furniture. G. GALBANUM is a gum resin produced by some umbelliferous plant, but the name of which is uncertain. The properties of galbanum are the same as those of AsAFffiTiDA. GALE, SWEET, Sweet Willow, or Dutch Myktle [Myrica gale), is an indigenous low plant, growing abundantly on bogs in gravellyGAL GAL [ 538 ] soils, and flowering in the month of May. This plant was formerly, by the northern nations, used as a substitute for hops; but unless it be boiled for a considerable time it is apt to occasion the headache. Dr. Withering is of opinion that from the catkins of this vegetable, if gathered in sufficient quantities, good candles might be manufactured, as, upon boiling those parts in water, a waxy scum may be perceived to rise to the surface. In the currying of leather, especially the softer kinds, this shrub is of the greatest utility. When reduced to powder it affords a grateful perfume in the composition of ointments, and it is like- wise serviceable for the expulsion of moths from clothes. The Norwegians smoke the leaves mixed with tobacco, which they are supposed greatly to improve. A decoction of the plant is used for the destruction of bugs and other vermin. In dyeing the bruised flower-buds and seeds yield a yellow colour. Lastly, an odori- ferous essential oil may be distilled from this aromatic shrub. GALL, OX. No preparation is more effectual for removing grease spots from woollens, silks, &c., than the gall of the ox, and we believe that the gall of the sheep and calf would be as efficient. The chief objection to its employ- ment is its peculiar smell, but this may be removed by the following treatment :^Boil a pint of the gall, skimming it frequently ; then add 1 oz. of powdered alum, and let it remain on the fire until the alum and the gall are thoroughly blended; then set it to cool, and when cold put the mixture into a bottle, which is to be slightly corked. Now proceed in exactly the same way with another pint of gall, using 1 oz. of common salt instead of alum. The two bottles must be kept in a place of moderate temperature for three months. A thick sediment will take place ; but as a good deal of yellow colouring matter will still remain, the contents of the two bottles, carefully poured off the sediment, are to be filtered separately', and then mixed in equal parts a portion at a time. The colouring matter will now coagulate and be precipitated, leaving the gall perfectly pure and colourless. It is then to be again filtered, bottled, and kept for use. In this ■ state it preserves all its detei-gent properties, is free from smell, and does not spoil by keeping. It must be well corked, however, and kept in a cool place. Silks, and all other articles of even the most delicate colours, may be cleaned with this prepared ox-gall. It is also used to fix chalk and pencil drawings before tinting them, and to remove the greasiness from ivory, &c., before drawing upon them. GALL STONES. The symptoms are deep- eeated pain on the right side, also in the pit of the stomach, extending to the back, at the place where the duct is inserted into the intestine. It is attended with vomiting and flatulence. Other symptoms are costiveness, the face pale, the eyes yellow. A fever attends the urgency of the pain. Errors in diet, ardent spirits, intense heat, azotic air, and sedentary life may be ranked among the'morbid agents. The pain as suddenly subsiding, is sometimes succeeded by a looseness, by which gall stones are discharged, and the whole of the symptoms disappear. In this disease generous diet is proper, and, when the strength will admit, a more than ordinary portion of exercise. The other natural powers should have a correspondent influence. Vomits and purgatives may be administered, with a view of acting on the obstructing causes. In the urgency of pain, opiates, fomentation, and warm bathing will be required. In the less aggravated stages recourse may be had to mineral waters, such as those of Cheltenham. GALLIMAUFRY, WELSH. Mix in a mortar any kind of cheese with butter, mustard, and wine; or make it without butter if it is objected to, and with any flavour. This makes excellent zests or sandwiches. GALLING is very ti-oublesome to children. It happens chiefly about the groin and wrinkles of the neck, under the arms, behind the ears, and in other parts that are moistened by the perspiration or urine. As this complaint is, in a great measure, owing to want of cleanliness, the most effectual means of preventing it is to wash the parts frequently with cold water, to change the linen often, and, in a word, to keep the child in all respects thoroughly clean. When this is not sufficient the excoriated parts may be sprinkled with absorbent or drying powders, as burnt hartshorn, tutty, chalk, and the like. When the parts affected are very sore, and tend to a real ulceration, it will be proper to add a little sugar of lead to the powders, or to anoint the place with the camphorated ointment. If the parts be washed with spring water, in which a little white vitriol has been dissolved, it wifl dry and heal them very powerfully. One of the lest applications for this purpose is to dissolve some fullers' earth in a sufficient quantity of hot water, and after it has stood till it is cold to rub it gently upon the galled parts once or twice a day; or to wash them gently now and then with a mixture of equal parts of rose water and spirits of wine. GALIjON. The old dry or corn gallon contained 26810 cubic inches, but the imperial corn gallon contains 277J inches. In both[ 539 ] GAM GAL 8 gallons make a bushel. The old uine gallon contained 231 cubic inches, and the old ale and leer gallon contained 282 cubic inches. The imperial corn gallon is the same for wine and ale, and is about one-fifth larger than the old wine gallon, and one-sixtieth less than the old ale gallon. The imperial gallon holds 10 lbs. avoirdupois of pure water. GALLS of the oak, or nut-galls, are excres- cences produced by the wounds of an insect [Cynips quercvsfolii), in which it deposits its eggs. In medicine they are one of the most powerful of astringents, and are used in making astringent gargles and lotions, also as a denti- frice, and as an ointment for the piles. They are likewise largely employed by dyers, and no good black writing ink can be made without them. GALVANISM and Electricity. We have only to consider these as a curative agent. Their efficacy in the cure of several diseases has been supported by many very respectable authorities. They have, for a length of time, been employed as a local and general stimulus, though, for the most part, in consequence of being chiefly found in the hands of people little acquainted with the nature and extent of disease, the proper time of applying, and the extent to which the application ought to be carried to constitutions in which they are likely to prove serviceable, they have been adopted in the most absurd and contradictory manner possible, and not, too, without being accompanied with danger. They are certainly powerful stimulants to the nervous system, hut have all the bad qualities of high excitants. If applied too strongly they exhaust the irritability, and thus it is that lightning kills. If not applied sufficiently strong they are of no service whatever. They are recommended in torpor of the circulatory system, in torpor of the absorbent vessels, in palsy, green sickness, in paralysis of the optic nerve (gutta serena), a tendency to fainting, general debility, and certain spasms affecting par- ticular parts, e.g., St. Vitus's dance, stiff joints, &c. In all these they are most efficacious, but often fail when the disease is of long standing. They succeed most frequently in St. Vituss dance, and the quantity given ought to be varied according to the disease. GAMBOGE is a bright yellow gum used in painting as well as in medicine. It is produced by a tree or trees belonging to the natural order of Clusiacece, or balsam trees, but by which of them is not quite certain. This gum comes from Siam, and other parts of India and its adjacent countries. In giving it as a medicine no form is more judicious than that of a pill. Its alkaline solution has been sometimes exhi- bited in dropsy, when it is said to operate both on the bowels and kidneys. Dose, 2 grains to 6 grains. It is a powerful drastic cathartic, and removes the water effused in dropsy ; very liable to excite vomiting, and from this peculiar action upon the stomach it has been frequently em- ployed with success in the expulsion of teniae, and it accordingly enters as an ingredient into many of the empirical compositions which are sold for the cure of tape worms. The specific of Herenschivand, which formerly excited so much interest in Germany, consisted of 10 grains of gamboge with 20 grains of sub- carbonate of potass, although it is said that, on its being analysed by order of Elizabeth of Russia, there were also found in it both mercury and arsenic. Gamboge is also the basis of the specific of Clossius. Golden spirit of scurvy grass is merely a solution of gamboge in the compound spirit of horseradish, and Morrison's pills contain it. GAME: To Choose. Hares when old have the claws blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the lip-cleft wide and large. When young the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears tear easily, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread. If newly killed the body is stiff and the flesh pale; but if black and limber it is stale. The principal difference between a hare and a leveret is, that the leveret should have a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore-leg, which a hare has not. Partridges. When young the legs are of a yellowish brown, and the bill of a dark colour. If fresh the vent of the partridge will be firm ; but if stale it will have a greenish look, and the skin will peel on being rubbed. Old birds may- be known by the whiteness of the bill and the blueness of the legs. When a person receives partridges of this description he should snap their legs, and draw out the sinews by pulling off the feet. Pheasants. The hen pheasant is most valued when with egg, in which state the vent is soft; but if it happens to be open and green she is stale, and the same is the case if the skin peels, when rubbed hard with the finger and thumb. The cock pheasant only has spurs, which, when the bird is young, are short, blunt, and round; but if old they are long and sharp. The feet of pheasant poults when new are supple, and the vents white and stitT; but when stale the former are dry, and the latter green. Plovers. There are two kinds of these migratory birds, the golden plover aud the dottrel. The former is mostly found in the western islands of Scotland, and the latter in Lincoln- shire and adjacent counties. They apjjear in small flocks from April to the middle of July, during which time they are extremely fat, andGAM [ 540 ] GAM thence are accounted delicious eating. In Sep- tember they may be seen off the downs of Berk- shire, Wiltshire, and Dorsetshire; but their winter retreat is unknown. In choosing plovers observe the vent, which is hard when the bird is fat, and the contrary when the bird is lean. If stale the feet are dry, and in other respects the same rules will apply to them as to other fowl. Plovers will keep a long time. Woodcocks and Sntpes. If they are fat and in good condition they will feel firm and thick, the vent will be plump and hard, and a vein of fat may be traced along the breast; but the lean bird will be the reverse, and Us veiit in particular will be ihin. When lately killed the feet will be supple, and the head and throat clean ; but the contrary signs show that the bird is stale. GAME : To Keep. Game may often be made fit for eating when it seems spoiled by nicely cleaning it, and washing it with vinegar and water. If you think birds will not keep draw, crop and pick them ; then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt. Have in readiness a large saucejian of boiling water, and plunge them in one by one, drawing them up and down by the legs so that the water may pass through them; let them stay in five or six minutes, and then hang them up in a cold place. When they are com- pletely drained well salt and pepper the insides, and thoroughly wash them before roasting. Pieces of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. GAME : To Pot. Pluck and draw out the trails of six woodcocks, skewer the bills through the thighs, put the legs within each other, and feed upon the breasts; season with mace, pepper, and salt; put them into a deep pot with 1 lb. of butter over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done lay them on a dish to drain, then put them into the proper pots, cover them with the butter in which they were baked, and lay over them some that is clarified. Snipes may be done in the same way. GAME AMOURETTES. Prepare | lb. of almond paste, and mince very finely 2 lbs. of any sort of game, with half the quantity of finely chopped marrow or kidney fat; mix it well together with a little rich cream, and season with mace, allspice, zest, lemon juice, nutmeg, and salt. Cut two or three slices of stale bread to fit the dish they are to be served in, and steep the bread in a rich salmis or civet, with port wine and jelly; heap the meat upon sip- pets, and either leave them rough, powder with fine crumbs seasoned with truffle and mush- room, and baste it with butter, or cover with yolk of egg and butter. Have any kind of spinal maiTow prepared, and when the amouretteg are dressed lay it over, press in, or bind them with it. If there is no spinal marrow bind them with strings of rich cream paste made with sugar and white of egg. GAME, CHAUD FROID OF. Roast six partridges, remove all the skin, trim, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan. Put into another saucepan the remains and bones of the birds, a glass of Rhenish wine, one of white Burgundy, a bay leaf, and five or six shallots: set it over a moderately heated stove, and when half reduced add a ladlefnl of veal blond. As soon as it boils set it on the corner of the stove for about an hour, skim it carefully, and then strain through a napkin into another saucepan, with the addition of two ladlesful of clarified Espagnole. When it boils set it as before on the corner of the stove ; in half an hour's time skim, and replace it over the stove, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon; or, if you wish it exceedingly clear, stir it at intervals only, putting in each time a dessert- spoonful of aspic jelly. When reduced to the proper consistence strain it again into a small saucepan, and stir it incessantly with a sauce ladle, that it may cool smootlily. When no more than lukewarm pour a quarter of it on the partridges, shaking the saucepan lightly, and then place it on ice for half an hour. At the end of that time lay the partridge legs very closely en couronne, on these lay the wings, then three breasts, over these two more breasts, and on the top of the whole a fine truffle dressed in wine, and a large well • blanched cock's comb; then beat up the remainder of the sauce with a spoon, and if it be too thick set it on the fire an instant, but if not sufficiently so place it on ice : when of the proper consistence It quits the spoon with difficulty. Remove the truffle and cock's comb, cover the chaudfroid carefully with the sauce, and then replace them. Garnish the dish with a border of roots or aspic jelly. GAME, ESSENCE OF. Take four rabbits, four partridges, two quasis of veal, and 2 lbs. of steaks, and put them into a stewpan with a bottle of white wine; boil until the whole is entirely reduced to a jelly; then add to it broth and consomme (equal quantities of each), eight carrots, ten onions, three cloves, and a little thyme and basil; let the whole boil very gently until the meat is quite done; then strain it through a napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the broth and consomme are sufficiently seasoned to flavour the essence of game. GAME, FARCE FOR. Chop some beef marrow and streaked bacon, and pound them well; then take the livers of your game, and pound thpm also with the marrow; add salt,GAM [ 541 ] GAM spices, yolks of eggs, and a little cream. If it Le too thin boil it for a quarter of an hour, keeping it constantly stirring to prevent it from burning. GAME FKITTERS. Take any of those parts of cold roasted game which can be cut into thin slices, dip them into good batter, and fry them in olive oil or lard. Sprinkle the fritters when done with- salt and spices pounded veiy finely. GAME, FUMET OF. This is a clear sauce, made in a similar manner to Essence of Game. When strained off' put it into a saucepan and let it boil, then set it by the side of the stove, and add to it half a glass of cold water to make the scum rise, which must be carefully removed; then reduce it to the consistence of syrup. This is used with dishes of game, breaded, broiled, &c. GAME, PETITS PATfiS OF. Make some petits pates with godiveau, and when baked take out the godiveau, and put in its place the fol- lowing prepai'ation :—Take some mushrooms, parsley, a clove of garlic, scallions, two cloves, and a piece of butter; give them a few turns in a stevvpan, and then add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, veal blond, salt, and pepper. Stew them gently till the mushrooms are done, then put ni some cold roasted game cut into dice, take out the parsley, and beat up the whole. Serve the petits pates with Seville orange juice. GAME, POTTAGE OF. Take the large fillets from six partridges, and the most fleshy parts of a young wild rabbit, set them aside, and make the remainder into a consomme with 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of shin of beef, and the usual vegetables and seasoning; then, having taken out all the membranes, &c., from the rabbit and partridges which were set aside, pound and rub them through a sieve; make a panado with bread crumbs, a little consomme, and the yolks of two eggs ; let it thicken and gratinez, stirring it constantly. Mix the pounded game with an equal quantity of panado, and a small piece of fresh butter or ready-dressed calf's udder; add salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, truffles, or mush- rooms ; pound the whole with two more yolks of eggs, and one white beaten to a snow ; make this into balls, and lay them on a flat plate, so that they will easily slide off' into the boiling con- somme, which must be well skimmed. 'When the balls are sufficiently done pour the whole into a soup tureen, and serve. GAME PUDDING. Trim and truss a suf- ficient quantity of small birds, such as quails, larks, thrushes, &c., and fry them lightly in butter, with a handful of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and any other seasoning you please; then make a thick stiff' paste, in which put the game, close tne paste round it, tie it in a cloth, and put it in a large saucepan of boiling water. When it has boiled an hour take it from the cloth, open the crust, and pour in some good cuUis or Espagnole, close it again, and serve it hot. GAME SOUP. A very good soup may be made in the season by taking all the breasts of any cold birds which have been left after dinner the preceding day. First pound the meat in a marble mortar, then break the legs and other bones in pieces, and boil them in some broth for an hour; do the same with six turnips, mash them, and strain them through a tamis with the meat that has been pounded; strain off the broth in the same manner, then put it into a soup kettle near the fire, but do not let it boil, and when ready have the yolks of six eggs mixed with half a pint of cream; strain this through a sieve, put the soup on the fire, and as it is about to boil add thereto the prepared eggs and cream, stirring the same well with a wooden spoon. Be careful not to let it boil, otherwise it will curdle. GAME, TAINTED : To Restoue. Charcoal powder rubbed over the tainted game, or dip- ping this into a solution of either the chloride of soda or of lime, removes the taint from it. We give the two recipes. Prepare the game for cooking, then wrap it in a fine linen cloth closely sewn in every part, so as to prevent any dust or cinders getting in. When this is done take a fire-shovelful of hot charcoal or live coal, and throw it into a bucket of cold water; then dip the game into it, and allow it to remain five minutes. Upon taking it out all the offensive smell will be removed, and it will be perfectly fit for use, but it must be dressed immediately. In a pan or bucket put i]h. of chloride of soda dissolved in two quarts of cold water. Pre- pare the game for the spit, and wash it thoroughly in the above solution just before roasting. GAME, TIM BALE OF. Prepare, bone, and cut up two young rabbits; dob them with bacon, season with minced parsley, scallions, shallots, mushrooms or truffles, spices, pepper, and salt; put these ingredients in a stewpan with butter, and harden the rabbits white in it; moisten with a glass of white wine and two large spoonsful of Espagnole or good stock, and let them simmer till done enough ; set them to cool; butter a mould of a sufficient size, and line it with rolled paste, beginning at the middle of the bottom, and continuing to go round till it comes to the top; the rolls of paste must lie firmly over each other. Have ready a piece of thin paste to lay in the bottom; and make it an inch larger that it may come up the sides; wash over this paste with yolk of egg, and put it in; pressGAM [ 542 ] GAR it down well to make it firm, and have ready a sufiBcient quantity of small farce balls; dress tbem round and round the sides till they nearly reach the top; put in the rabbits with the seasoning, and cover the whole, wetting and fix- ing the paste firmly ; dress it round the edge ; give it an hour and a half; it must be of a fine colour for the paste. When ready to dish cut it nearly open at the top, and put in a nice sauce of reduced Espagiiole, or cover it with a sweetbread or mushroom ragout. GAMMON OF BACON is the hinder part of a flitch, the buttock, with a part of the flank attached. GANGRENE, or Incipient Mortification. When inflaiumation is likely thus to terminate the symptoms are, firstly, a sudden diminution of the pain and sympathetic fever; secondly, a livid discoloration of the part, which from being yellowish assumes a greenish hue ; thirdly, a separation of the scarf skin, under which a turbid fluid is effused; and, fourthly, when Rwelling, tension and hardness, which charac- terise this species of inflammation, subside, while, at the same time, a crackling noise is felt on touching the part, in consequence of air being generated in the cellular membrane. A gradual abatement of the inflammatory symptoms by a termination either in resolution or suppuration may be considered as prognos- ticating a favom-able issue. Should local inflammation threaten to termi- nate in gangrene, bark, opium, and ammonia are the sheet anchors, and in this stage surgical aid becomes indispensable, should it hitherto have been omitted. See Mortification. GARGLE is an application to be taken into the mouth in small quantities at a time, and by leaning the head backward to allow the gargle to reach the part of the mouth or throat diseased. A gargle is not to be swallowed. Gargle in Thrush. Borax finely powdered, 2 drachms; honey, 1 oz.; rose water, 7 ozs. Gargle in Inflammatort Sore Throat. Nitre, 2 drachms.; honey, i oz.; rose water, 6 ozs.: used frequently. Also, spirit of salt, 20 drops; honey, 1 oz. ; water, 4 ozs. Myrrh Gargle. Infusion of roses, 7|- ozs.; tincture of myrrh, J oz. Mildly astringent and cleansing. Rose Gargle. Infusion of roses, 4 ozs.; honey of roses or syrup of mulberries, ] oz. This is a simple and elegant gargle for common sore throat. GARLIC. The medical properties of garlic are various. It has long been in estimation as an expectorant in asthmas, and other pulmonary affections that are not accompanied with inflam- mation. It is also frequently of service in the dropsy, at the commencement of which it has been especially recommended, in the quantity of one or two drachms in substance for a dose. Externally applied it blisters the skin. When made into an unguent it is said to discuss cold tumours, and has been celebrated for its efiicacy in cutaneous complaints. In certain states of deafness a small clove, or bulb, of the root, when enveloped in gauze or muslin, and introduced into the ear, has been found an eflicacious remedy. GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE. Pound half a dozen cloves of garlic, and rub them through a silk sieve with a wooden spoon ; put this into a mortar with some butter, and beat it until thoroughly incorporated; then put this butter into any sauce you please. GARLIC, ESSENCE OF. Take an earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves of garlic, the same number of cloves, the quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay leaves. When near boiling reduce the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours ; strain it through a coarse sieve, and then filter it. Keep it in very closely corked bottles. A very small quantity of this essence is requisite to impart its flavour to a dish. GARLIC GRAVY. Cut H lb. of veal into pieces, pepper and salt them, then lay them in a stewpan, with two carrots split, four cloves of garlic sliced, J lb. of sliced ham, and a large spoonful of water. Set the stewpan over a gentle fire, and watch when the meat begins to stick, immediately on which turn it, and let it be well browned, but not burned; then dredge it with flour, and pour thereon a quart of broth, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves bruised, and a lemon sliced. Set on the pan again, and let it simmer for one hour and a half longer; then take off the fat, and strain the liquoT from the ingredients by pouring it through a napkin, which must be pressed or squeezed very hard. GARLIC, PICKLED. Pick the garlic veiy clean, put it over a brisk fire in salt and water, and boil it up quickly ; drain and dry it; make a pickle of double-distilled vinegar and salt, and pour it boiling hot on the garlic. Repeat the same the next day. GARLIC SAUCE. Pound two cloves of garlic with a piece of fresh butter about the size of a small walnut, rub it through a double hair sieve, and stir into it half a pint of melted butter or beef gravy. GARLIC VINEGAR. Peel and chop 2 ozs. of garlic, put thereon a quart of white wine vinegar, cover the jar closely, and let it steep ten days, shaking it often; then pour it into small bottles. A few drops of this wiU be sufficientGAS [ 543 j GAR for a pint of gravy; but the best way is to send some of it to table in a cruet, as many persons are not fond of garlic. GARNET. The " precious garnet" is the carbuncle of the ancients, and always red. It is sometimes called the almandine and Green- landite. Its chief constituents are flint [silica), clay (alumina), and rust [oxide) of iron. It is so hard that it will scratch glass, a power which distinguishes it from the usual counterfeit garnets. GARNITURE. Put some cocks' combs, kid- neys, and livers into warm water, that all the blood may soak out, and when they are clean have ready some hot, but not boiling water, into which throw the cocks' combs ; stir them about, and take them out one by one ; lay them in a cloth with some salt, rub them well to remove the pellicle, and then put them again into warm water. The kidneys when cleansed should be boiled in a blanc for half an hour; the livers must be blanched in water that simmers only, to prevent their becoming hard, though they should be firm. When all are cold trim and drain them for use. GARNITURE A LA FLAMANDE. Cut thirty carrots and as many turnips into pieces about two inches and a half long, and not quite one in diameter, which boil in a consomme with a little sugar; take thirty lettuces braised with cabbages, drain, press, and trim them, then lay them round a dish alternately as follows—a lettuce, a carrot, and a turnip, leaving the centre of the dish for such meat as you think proper to use; have ready thirty glazed onions to garnish your lettuces, &c. When the meat is ready for table pour over it a nivernaire, reduced and mixed with a little reduced Espagnole. GARNITURE EN RAGOUT. Put into a saucepan some cocks' combs and kidneys, fat livers, lambs' sweetbreads, tniffles, quenelles, and mushrooms; pour over these sufficient Espagnole travaillee; or, if you wish your ragout white, put the yolks of three or four eggs into some veloute, and use that to dress the above articles instead of Esjmgnole. GARTERS.' We must censure the use of tight garters, particularly in m3n, to whom they are altogether unnecessary. Whether females can do without them is scarcely fair to question ; but if any substitute or contrivance can be adopted in their place it will amply compensate any little trouble or inconvenience. The stock- ings can easily be tied to some tape fastened to the waistband. This apparently trifling im- provement is of greater moment than many are inclined to imagine, for garters are undoubtedly the cause of much mischief, whether tied above or below the knee. The part to which they are applied acquires an unnatural hard- ness ; they dispose the thighs and legs to dropsy, induce great fatigue in walking, and are very probably the cause that cert lin persons so frequently stumble, fall, and dislocate the kneepan. GAS, COOKING BY. We can bear un- reserved testimony to the superiority of gas for cooking. It is superior as a source of heat for the purpose, because the heat is perfectly regular and equally applied; there are no cinders or other dirt falling into the frying-pan, and it saves a great amount of labour and attention. We have employed for many years a gas-cook- ing apparatus invented by Mr. James Sharp, manager of the Gas-works, Southampton, and we assent to all the following particulars, which we borrow from his little pamphlet entitled, " Observations on the Practical Advantages attending the Use of Coal Gas." The method of cooking by gas reduces culinary operations to something like a certainty, and it is adapted to all the processes of cooking. The apparatus is simple, cleanly, and econo- mical, and is calculated for families of every rank, from the palace to the cottage, as well as for public establishments of every description, hotels, taverns, coffee-houses, &c. Foi' boiling water. This may be accomplished in ten or fifteen minutes with unfailing certainty, and at a very triflhig cost. In fact, no other mode of producing heat will bear comparison with gas for economy, rapidity, or certainty of effect. By this mode also tea, coffee, soups, hot closets, &c., may be kept permanently at any given temperatm'e. For roasting meat, poultry, game, &c., this process is extremely simple, and free from trouble, anxiety, or nuisance. The meat being suspended, and the gis lighted, it may be left until it is done, which will take about the same time as before a common fire, and so little heat escapes that the cook may stand near it in the hottest weather without inconvenience. The flavour is decidedly improved, all the nutritious juices being retained; and the heat being applied equally to all parts of the joint, it is not liable to be scorched or burnt, but comes to the table of a beautiful brown colour. The extra value of the dripping, which is collected in a perfectly pure and delicate state, will pay for the gas con- sumed, added to which the loss of weight is very much reduced by this in comparison with the ordinary method of roasting. For boiling, steaming, baking, broiling, and frying, also, this invention is peculiarly ap- plicable. Indeed, there is no description of cooking to whicjh gas may not be advantageously applied. The whole apparatus may be i>laced on a dresser in any part of the room, or even in a cupboard.[ 644 ] GAS GAS Directions for use. Choose a place for fixing the apparatus ^vhere there is an easy communication, either with a chimney or the external air, to carry off, hy means of a pipe from the top of the roaster, the smell and heat occasioned by cooking. Roasting. Hang the meat over the centre of the burner to prevent the fat from dropping on the lights. If necessary, in consequence of the breadth of the joint, use the two pieces of tin provided for this purpose. Place a basin or dish under the dripping-pan to receive the dripping. Light the gas, and turn it on until the flame is about three-eighths of an inch in height. Allow the same time as for cooking by a coal fire. To backen a joint, or keep it hot iot any length of time, lower the flame to a blue light, and open the door of the roaster about one inch. Broiling is done ou a gridiron, or a pan with a convex bottom, which is placed over an ap- paratus with a gauze top. For frying use the common frying-pan. This part of the apparatus, although extremely simple, is highly philoso- phical, the writer taking the idea from Sir Humphry Davy's safety lamp, and the name it is known by is " the gauze burner." It is admirably adapted to supersede coke or charcoal stoves ; and any number of these fireplaces can be fitted up in a kitchen, so that if room permit a dozen or a score of pots may be boiling and stewing each on its own fire; while to make one boil fiercely, and another simmer slowly, no labour with poker and tongs is required, all that is necessaiy being a small touch of the tap, by which every fire in the range may be made to burn with different degrees of intensity. Baking may be performed at the same time with roasting by suspending the meat from the pierced iron shelf, placing what is to be baked upon that shelf, and putting it over the bright tin plate. If it is required to bake only place the dishes as near the burner as it is necessary. In all cases place the dishes in the tin pan, to prevent the syrup, should it boil over, from dropping on what is under. Steaming. Fill the boiler with water ; light the gas, but do not suffer the flame to touch the bottom of the boiler; place the meat in the oval steamer, and allow rather more time than for boiling. The provisions cooked in this part of the apparatus are very superior to those boiled in water, and a great variety can be cooked in one vessel, namely, puddings, meat, poultry, ham, fish, and vegetables. Each will be produced perfectly free from any flavour but its own, thus proving the excellency of this method, as not extracting the virtues from the viands, and materially lessening labour in cooking. In using any part of the apparatus always observe to have your light ready before the gas is turned on. The cardinal virtues of cookery are cleanliness, frugality, and nourishment: by cleanliness you insure all you require. The economy of this method of cooking is great. Of course there is no system, however good, which will not admit of mismanagement. We have known numerous instances of servants not accustomed to cooking who have used this apparatus, and become excellent cooks. The best material for making the apparatus of is tin. Heat spreads, partly by being shot or radiated like light from one body to another, depending on the condition of their surfaces. A black surface, for instance, will radiate away 100° of its heat in the same time that a bright surface will radiate 12°. The property of absorbing heat depends upon the colour of the substance, and, as a general rule, the dark colours, namely, those that absorb most light, absorb most heat. Dr Franklin laid pieces of cloth of different colours on snow, and during a given period, in which the sun was shining on them, he noted this in the dif- ferent depths to which they sunk. The doc- trines of radiant heat make us aware of the importance of having vessels of polished metal for containing liquids, or anything which we desire to keep warm; hence the importance of the cooking apparatus being made of a non- conducting material. It is of advantage that the bottom and sides of the boiler be black, and the case which contains the vessel should be bright, because it has to confine the heat. The writer would caution his friends against using any apparatus the outside of which is made of cast or sheet iron. Let him impress upon, his readers the importance of keeping all parts of the apparatus clean, as being the means of economising the consumption of gas, and performing all the operations of cooking in a much superior manner. We have occasionally been asked how it is that some persons using the apparatus cannot brown pastry or cook a York- shire pudding to their satisfaction. The reason has been the want of cleanliness. My reply has been that my cook can do all this, and with an apparatus which has been in use for at least twenty years; in fact, the Yorkshire pudding can be done in a much superior style, because we can insure its freedom from ashes, or the chance of a cinder falling into it. In a climate so variable as our own, and where the cost of fuel is necessarily large, its economy is a matter of interesting considera- tion, connected as it is with so many of the comforts and necessaries of life. It is no wonder, therefore, that much attention has been directed to ascertain the means of procuringGAS [ 545 ] GAS the largest portion of available heat, and its concentration and diffusion at the smallest possible expense. Most of the plana which have been hitherto adopted are acknowledged to be defective in principle, as they are in operation, the quantity of heat which is pro- duced and distributed from the burning fuel not being at all commensurate with the pro- portion of the latter which is consumed. Coal discharges a large quantity of volatile products on its first exposure to heat, the more solid portion only remaining behind, and constituting the material of a common coal fire. In a well-constructed gas apparatus the heat is economised to a great extent. It is now upwards of twenty-four years since the writer first introduced this application of gas, and he found for some time great difficulty to clear away the prejudice which so long ob- structed his laboui's. The lecture given by him in Southampton in June, 1837, which took place at the Mechanics' Institution—now the Polytechnic—must be in the recollection of many of the inhabitants, on which occasion he cooked a substantial supper, and placed it on the table, and it was partaken of by a large number of the company. Although well aware of the advantages of this system of cooking, his success was but partial, having to contend with a variety of opposing powers and circumstances, the cooks viewing with doubt and dislike an invention which threatened to make their mis- tresses independent of them. From the time which had elapsed, and the lectures and exertions the writer made, others entered the field under more favourable auspices. It is most gratifying to him to see its value now so generally admitted. The increasing favour with which the employment of gas for culinary, heating, and other processes is regarded, is due to the reductions which have taken place in the price of the material employed, and to the wear- ing away of those prejudices which invai'iably attend the introduction of all innovations upon preconceived opinions. It took at least twenty years to overcome the prejudice existing against the general use of gas for artificial light; and it is, therefore, not surprising that its use for other purposes should have had a similar period of doubt and difficulty to contend with. It has now, however, triumphed over all opposition. Nor have its advantages for domestic cooking been less significantly demonstrated, as hundreds of families and public establishments can now testify. Numerous testimonials from persons who have used the apparatus for a length of time, also from eminent scientific and medical men, as to the safety and wholesomeness of the gas cooking apparatus, are in the possession of Mr. Sharp. A variety of favourable notices of this invention may be seen in the " Mechanics' Magazine," and in many of the principal periodicals and papers. GAS, LIGHTING BY. We are indebted to Mr. Sharp's work just quoted for the follow- ing observations:— The first question which persons about to become consumers of gas will naturally ask is. What will it cost in comparison with oil or candles ? All who have investigated the subject agree in this answer—that there is no method yet known of producing light so cheap as that obtained from coal gas, taking "into consideration the quantity and quality of the light, and its universal application. When any doubt has arisen it has been occasioned by a comparison having been instituted between two lights of very different degrees of power. For instance, a small tradesman, whose shop has been illu- minated at night by a dip candle, is told that gas is cheaper than candlelight; he determines to adopt it, and after using it for three months finds he has consumed a larger quantity than be expected, and he complains that he has been deceived, and that gas, instead of being cheaper, is much dearer than his one candle. But what is the fact ? His gas burner, which is perhaps, of the kind, of the least economical shape, gave a light equal to twelve such candles all burning at the same time. The balance, there- fore, is in favour of gas: a gas light of equal splendour with the candles would have cost half the price. Afc a very early period after the first introduction of gas, and when the method of manufacturing it was comparatively imperfect and expensive, one of the largest cotton factories in the kingdom, that of Mr. Lee, afc Manchester, was lighted throughout with it. The total expense of the gas for one year, including wear and tear of apparatus, and interest of capital sunk, was under £600, and candles to procure the same light would have cost nearly £3000. The advantage of fas, as to economy, if compared with oil, will e found in a similar proportion ; in fact, the common Argand oil lamp is but a gas manu- factory in miniature, and inevitably a more ex- pensive one; first, from its being carried out on a very limited scale, and next from its necessarily employing a very costly material. Economy ia its first cost, though a great advantage attending the use of gas, is not the only one. Next in degree, and certainly not inferior in its practical consequences, is its superior safety. The cotton wick, which forms the medium of combustion in lights derived both from oil and candles, is a substance which, however indispensable ia that mode of obtaining light, is, perhaps, above all others, the most dangerous, one of the most readily inflammable of all substances; 2 X[ 646 3 GAS GAS and there can be no doubt tbat many of those fires, otherwise unaccountable, which have plunged whole families into sudden distress and ruin, have originated in the neglected snuff or suddenly emitted spark from a tallow candle. Against all accidents of this kind gas affords the most perfect and infallible security. A gas light of the most vivid and brilliant description might be left to burn for hours over an open barrel of gunpowder with the most perfect safety, as no light of that de- scription can ever emit a spark. The only possible danger to be apprehended from the use of gas arises from its escaping from the pipes, through leakage, in sufficient quantities to form an explosive mixture. This would, perhaps, prove an insupei-able objection to its employ- ment in a community destitute at once of com- mon sense and of the organ of smelling. To those who are not suffering under this double deprivation no danger can possibly arise, as, in the event of any imperfection in the pipes, the peculiar odour of the gas, which, however dis- agreeable, no improvements in its manufacture have fortunately yet been able wholly to destroy, ■will warn the sense of smelling of the escape long before it has been combined with tlae atmospheric air in sufficient quantities to form an explosive mixture. An escape of gas to the extent of is^th part of the atmospheric air is distinctly and immediately perceptible by the smell; but this quantity must be increased 2000 times before an explosion could take place. The remedy is simple, and one would almost call it instinctive. Open the doors and windows of the apartment in which the odour occurs, and take no light near the place until the smell has gone off: no explosion can by any possibility take place if these simple precautions ai'Q attended to. The superior cleanliness attend- ing the use of gas will form no unimportant advantage in the estimation of those who rightly appreciate the ideas presented to English under- standings under those untranslatable and almost indefinable words, neatness and comfort, omit- ting altogether the minor, though not less important, details of the decrease of labour and increase of cleanliness in all establish- ments where this light has been introduced. Gas may fearlessly plead not guilty to the charge of destroying the beauty of a lady's dress, of damaging a gentleman's coat, or irretrievably injuring a valuable book or print. Gas yields a light of any required intensity, and preserves its splendour unimpaired for an indefinite time. It is susceptible of instan- taneous increase or diminution by simply turn- ing a stop-cock, a quality of the greatest im- portance in many situations, but especially in the bedroom or sick chamber. It can be in an instant increased, from a flame not exceeding in brilliancy that of a rushlight, to one capable of giving a full light to a large apartment; and the same flame will, in cases of emergency, raise, in ten minutes, two quarts of water to a boiling temperature. It has been objected that gas blackens the ceilings, soils the goods, and creates an un- pleasant odour in the apartment in which it is used. These objections may be all obviated by using proper burners, not burning the flame too high, never using an Argand burner without a straight chimney, and the flame should not reach within one-third of the top of the glass. If these instructions are complied with you get a- perfect combustion, and at the same time use the gas with economy. Another objection some- times raised against the introduction of gas into private rooms is the heat it produces. This is frequently occasioned by the use of improper burners, or too many in number for the size of the room, and not unfrequently the improper arrangement or situation of the lights. The same objections may be brought against any mode of lighting. If oil or wax is used, and you have the same profusion of light as from gas, the heat will be in proportion. In addition to the advice given above, all rooms inhabited for any length of time should he ventilated, let the system of lighting be tvhat it may. Happily for us the importance of this subject is now beginning to be appreciated. In living rooms Dr. Aruott's valve in tbe chimney is the simplest, and an efficacious method of ventila- tion. To no class of buildings will this remark applj' with greater force than ball-rooms, theatres, lecture-rooms, churches, chapels, and hospitals, where great numbers of persons are frequently packed together. Gas may be made an impor- tant agent in the ventilation of large buildings, effecting the compulsory withdrawal of vitiated air by producing a powerful rarefaction in the lower end of an upright shaft. Mr. Sharp has paid considerable attention to this subject, and some years back successfully ventilated several large buildings, plans of which he has by him, and will show them to parties who are seeking information on this subject. GASTRITIS, or Inflammation of thr Stomach. Inflammation of the stomach is of two kinds. The one we purpose to speak of is that arising from contact with acrid substances, such as arsenic, oxj^muriate of mercury, oxalic and mineral acid, &c., taken into the organ. It may also be occasioned by food of an impi'oper nature, spirituous liquors, taking large draughts of cold liquids when the body is much heated by exercise, such as dancing, running, &c.; also by external violence, from blows, wounds, &o.; by gout and eruptions being thrown in upon it.GAS [ 547 ] GAT Independently of all these, inflammation of the stomach may arise from an inflammation of some of the neighbouring parts, as the liver, intestines, &c. The symptoms of this complaint are violent burning pain, heat and tension in the neighbour- hood of the stomach, with great sourness and flatulence, severe vomiting, especially after any- thing is swallowed, whether solid or liquid ; most distressing thirst, restlessness and anxiety, and a continual tossing of 1>he body, with great weakness, constant watching, delirium, &c. The event of inflammation of the stomach is seldom favourable, as the patient is usually either suddenly destroyed b}' the violence of the inflammation, or else it terminates quickly in suppuration, ulceration, or gangrene. If, how- ever, the symptoms are very mild, and proper medicines have been early employed, it may terminate, nevertheless, in resolution, and that in the course of eight, or at most fifteen days. The cure of inflammation of the stomach is to be attempted by copious and repeated bleedings, without regard to the smallness of the pulse, or to the extreme weakness, fainting, or convulsions, for these are the effects of the disease. Bleeding, therefore, may be repeated every four or six hours, in such a quantity at a time as the action of the circulating medium will bear, which practice is to be continued as long as the characteristic symptoms of the disease remain. After bleeding from the arm several leeches are to be applied over the stomach, or cupping may be adopted if pi'e- ferred. A large blister may next be applied, and the cure assisted by fomenting the whole of the belly, as well as by administering frequent soothing and laxative clusters. A warm bath will prove beneficial, and bathing the feet in warm water is also recommended. In consequence of the irritable state of the stomach it will not retain medicine, and it is only after the violence of the pain and the fre- quency of vomiting are abated by the preceding treatment that opiates can be given, even in the form of clysters; but when the disease is somewhat brought under, opium may be given this way, as well as internally, in small doses. The stomach may be sheathed from any acri- monious substances coming in contact with it, and which may have caused the inflammation, by the patient taking small draughts of some mild diluent diink, such as chicken broth, linseed tea, or barley water, in which a small quantity of gum arable has been dissolved. When, however, the nature of the offending matter is known the proper specific remedies may be resorted to. Inflammation of the stomach, fortunately, is a very rare disorder. The fatal species of it arises chiefly tt/imrds the close of other diseases, in- dicating the certain approach to dissolution, and is unaccompanied with any marks of general inflammation, or by burning pain in the stomach. GxlTEAU DE COMPIEGNE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of butter, 1 oz. and 4 drachms of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, J lb. of sugar, a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve whole eggs, and five or six spoonsful of whipped cream. With these ingredients proceed as follows:—Sift the flour, of which put one-fourth part on the slab, make a hole in the middle, and put into it a glass of warm water and the yeast; mix them together as lightly and with as much despatch as possible, adding more warm water if necessary. When well worked up for some minutes gather it together (it ought to leave the slab and the hand freely), put it into a saucepan, cover it, and place it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. Take the rest of the flour, lay it on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, in which put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these together well, and then put in the eggs one at a time; break them into a basin in case all should not be good. The eggs being put in, add by degrees the butter, stirring them well ; then mix the flour a little at a time with the above until the whole is formed into a smooth paste: more eggs must be added if it be too stiff'. Work it up a little, and then add the leaven ; work that in ; and lastly, put in the whipped cream. The whole operation being thus per- formed, have ready a cylindrical fluted mould, about eight inches in diameter and nine in height; butter it by means of a sponge, being careful that it is done in all parts, otherwise the gateau will adhere to it. Put the mould in a moderately warm place, but where there is a free current of air. When the gateau has risen so as to fill the mould, and the surface is a little inflated, it should be put into the oven instantly, for if not 'it falls and becomes heavy. The oven must be of moderate heat, and kept closed while the gateau is baking. Take it out in about an hour, and if it be flexible and light-coloured replace it for thirty or forty minutes ; but if, on the contrary, it is red and firm to the touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put it into the oven till done , remove the mould with care, and the gateau is finished. If the mould does not come off as it ought strike it gently with a spatula. When taken out put it in the oven a few minutes to dry. GATEAU A LA FRANgAlSE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 12 drachms of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, 6 ozs. of sugar, the rinds of four oranges, half a glass of rum, | lb. of dry currants, twelve eggs, the same number of yolks, three glasses of cream, and 2 lbs. of butter. Grate the rind of the oranges on a piece of sugar, andGAT I 548 ] GAT as it colours the sugar scrape off tlie surface lightly. Take 6 ozs. of this sugar, crush it completely, and put it into a pan, with the rum and currants thoroughly washed. Having stirred it well, cover the pan and set it aside; then sift the flour, and make your leaven with the fourth part of it as usual. Put the butter and eggs into a pan, and mix them; to this mixture put half the remaining flour, and when that is amalgamated the cream, a little at a time; then by degrees the rest of the flour, the salt, the leaven, the currants, and rum, stirring well the whole time, that all the ingredients may be thoroughly incorporated. Finish the same as the former. GATEAU OF MILLEFEUILLES. Take some puff paste, and divide it into eight pieces, one of which must be double the size of the rest; roll the seven pieces to about the thick- ness of a half-crown, cut them all of an equal size, dorez, and place them on tins. Take the eighth piece, roll it to double the thickness, and cut it to the size of the others ; ornament one side of this layer, as it forms the top, and glaze. Bake them, and when cold take the first layer, and spread currant jelly all over it; cover it with a second layer, on which spread an apricot marmalade, and proceed thus, using different preserve between each layer of puff paste, until you have employed the whole. Garnish the upper piece with some of each preserve contained in the gateau; trim the edge, taking care to keep it quite round; fix some small meringues to it by means of sugar boiled to casse, place it on a napkin, and serve. Chantilly cream of different colours may be substituted for the preserves. GATEAU A LA PARISIENNE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, IJoz. of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, C ozs. of sugar, ten whole eggs, as many yolks, 2 lbs. of butter, four glasses of cream, 1 lb. of filberts, f lb. of pistachio nuts, and ^ lb. of preserved orange-peel. Blanch the filberts, and roast them over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly till lightly coloured. When done take them off, let them cool, and as soon as they are cold pound them, moistening them occasionally with cream. When reduced to a smooth paste put it into a pan, and stir the cream a little at a time into it; then strain it twice through a napkin, squeezing hard to extract all the milk, which put into a basin, and set aside; then blanch half the pistachios, wash them in cold water, and peel into pieces the same length as the pistachio nuts, and about one-eighth of an inch square. Divide the flour, and make the leaven in the same manner as directed for Gateau de Compiegne, except that milk is substituted for water. Having done it and set it aside to rise, take 1^ lb. of butter, worlc it up, put it into a pan, and add to it the remaining ^ lb. just dissolved; stir them together well, and put in the eggs and yolks one by one, working them up con- stantly ; then mix in successively half the flour, a glass of the filbert milk, and two handsful of flour; make a hollow in the paste, into which put the salt, sugar, and another glass of milk of filberts; mix them together; then add the remainder of the flour and milk of filberts, and the leaven. Thesebeing thoroughly incorporated, mix the orange-peel and pistachios, and then pour the preparation into a mould of the same kind, and buttered like that for Gateau de Compiegne. Whilst it is baking blanch the remainder of the pistachios, divide each nut in half, dry them thoroughly in a napkin, and when the gateau is taken from the mould stick them on the top and round the sides. GATEAU DE PITHWEERS. Pound to a smooth paste i lb. of filberts; add to them 6 ozs. of fine sugar, ^ lb. of butter, 2 ozs. of bitter almonds, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt. These ingredients being well beaten tog(^ther, put in four spoonsful of whipped cream; then take some puff paste, knead and roll it out perfectly, and divide it into two parts, one of which must be two-thirds larger than the other, which roll out of a sufficient size .to cut a round piece nine inches in diameter; add the cuttings of this to the remaining paste, roll it out, and cut a piece off sevc i inches in diameter; moisten the edges of the smaller piece lightly, and pour on it the above pre- paration ; spread it over the whole equally to within an inch of the edge; then cover it lightly with the other circular piece, and press the paste together that the preparation may not escape in baking. Flute the edge, dorez the top, and trace on it any design you think proper with the point of a knife ; place it in a brisk oven, and when coloured remove it nearer the opening, that the paste may not be too highly coloured. When it has been baking three quarters of an hour take it out and glaze it. These gateaux may be varied accord- ing to taste by introducing different articles, such as butter, almonds, dry currants, muscadel raisins, crisped orange flowers, &c., in proper quantities in the above preparation. GATEAU DE POMMES. Take Hlb. of lump sugar, put to it one pint of water, and let it boil for some time ; then add 9 lbs. of apples pared and cored, and the peel of a large lemon; boil the whole together till it is quite stiff, then put it into a mould, and when quite cold it will turn out. Serve with a rich custard. GATEAU royal. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 12 drachms of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, 6 ozs. of sugar, 6 drachms of vanilla, a glass of maras-G E L GAT r 549 1 chino, f lb. of muscadel raisins, i2 lbs. of butter, twelve yolks and twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of whipped cream; stone the raisins, put them into a basin with the maraschino and vanilla, pounded with the sugar and strained; cover the basin very closely, and set it aside. Make the leaven as before directed; then put three parts of the butter into a pan, melt the fourth part, and add to it; beat it to a cream, and at intervals of two minutes put in two whole eggs and two yolks until all are used. To this add the other ingredients, and finish the gateau in the same manner as Gateau de COMPIEGNE. GATHERING, in needlework, is a term usea ■where a full part is to be set into a plain one, as the sleeve of a shirt into a wristband, or the upper part of a shirt into the collar. When going to gather and to fasten in gathers take care that the loose edges are pared off, and the part that you are going to gather is cut perfectly even. Fold it into two parts, and then into four parts, and make a mark with a piece of thread at each quarter; then lay down a fold twelve or four- teen threads from the raw edge, crease it, and turn it back again. The running must be along the creased line, as it is improper to draw a thread. Gather on the ric/ht side, taking up two threads on the needle, and missing three ou more, according to the fulness of the article Take four or fiive stitches on the needle at a time, but the thread need not be drawn tightly except at every finger-length, and if a fresh thread be required take it at the half or quarters only. When you have finished the gathering draw the fulness up rather closely, and secure the thread by twisting it round a pin ; next draw the gathers straight between the thumb and fingers, and trace or sti-oke them down one at a time with a lai-ge needle. To do this neatly place the gathers side to side, and hold them down firmly and smoothly with the thumb upon the first finger, exactly as though taking them up on the needle separately. Next divide the plain part—that is, the collar or wristband—into four equal parts, and, having opened the gathers a little, pin the corresponding parts of each together, placing the edge of the wristband or collar exactly over the gathering thread ; then draw the gathering thread so as to agree in length with the wristband or collar, and fasten the thread by twisting it round the last pin The thread should never be cut until the fixing in of the right side is finished. Hold the work with the thumb upon the firet finger of the left hand, the gathers, which should be disturbed as little as possible, lying nearly from left to right, and equally distributed. Begin the first stitches at the end furthest from you, setting in the first stitches firmly and neatly, pointing the needle almost along the gathers. Take up at a time one gather only. Set the wrong side on with equal care, and observe to keep the edge of the wristband on that side, so as to agree precisely with the edge upon the right side. GELATINE is sold in shavings like isinglass, and is offered as a cheap substitute for it. It is, however, not so nutritious, and as the manufacturers can avail themselves of various materials, such as horses' bones and old skins, m its preparation, it will probably never become a popular article of food, however suitable it may be to other purposes. By a report laid before the Academy of Sciences m Paris it appears that so long ago as 1680 the celebrated French physician, Papin, had occupied himself with experiments for obtaining gelatine from bones, and had employed steam for that purpose. About a century later, just at the commence- ment of the revolution, several French chemists, and amongst them M. Darcet, continued experi- ments of this nature, and much enthusiasm was excited by the idea that they would lead to a more economical kind of food for the support of the lower classes. Every bit of bone found was then looked upon as so much solidified gelatine, and a great many false expectations were raised. M. Darcet at that time reported that gelatine could be obtained from bones in greater quantities than from meat, but that it was totally insipid, and required much seasoning before it could be made sufficiently palatable for culinary purposes. His son continued the experiments after his death for thirty years, and arrived at the con- viction that, if the bones were properly managed, four oxen might be made to yield as much nutriment as five do by the common plan. M. Darcet's machines for extracting gelatine (cylinders into which steam is turned after they are partially filled with bones) were put up in several hospitals, and continued to act for many years. They are still at work in the hospital of St. Louis, but some objections were raised to the gelatine they produced at the hospital of La Charit6 and elsewhere, as not being nutritious, and a method was adopted in which acids were employed. Dr. Donne then made some experiments on the nutritiousness of gelatine, and tried to feed dogs on it ex- clusively ; but he found that these animals allowed themselves to die of hunger rather than touch it. It has also been found in glue manu- factories that rats never touch pure gelatine, and dogs fed on bread soaked in gelatine became greatly reduced, but that three or four spoonsful of soup made from meat given daily is enough to recover them. GELATINE BLANC-MANGER. From two quarts of rich milk take a pint, and put theGEN GEL r 550 1 pmt into a small saucepan, v?itli the yellow rind of three lemons pared thin, and half a nutmeg beaten. For the lemon rind you may suh- Btitute a handful of bitter peach kernels broken up, or else a vanilla bean. Having boiled the pint of milk long and slowly till it tastes strongly of the flavouring articles (keeping it closely covered), strain it, and mix it in a larger saucepan with the other three pints of milk; add 1^ oz. of gelatine that has first been soaked in cold water, and | lb. of fine loaf sugar; set it over the fii-e, and continue to boil, stirring it five minutes after it has come to a boil: then strain it, and transfer it to blanc-manger moulds, first wetting the inside of each mould with cold water; place the moulds on ice, or in a very cold situation, till the blanc-manger is thoroughly congealed, and then turn it out on dishes. GELATINE CUSTARD. Soak i oz. of gelatine for three or four hours in a pan of cold water; have ready a quart of milk, and boil in half a pint of it a bunch of peach leaves, or a handful of bitter almonds broken up, also a stick of cinnamon broken in pieces. When it is highly flavoured strain this milk into a pan that con- tains the rest; beat four eggs very lightly, and mix them gradually with the milk, adding by degrees the gelatine well drained, and four heaped table-spoonsful of sugar; set it over.a slow fire, and boil it, stirring it frequently. As soon as the gelatine is entirely dissolved and thoroughly mixed the custard will be done. Transfer it to a deep dish or to cups, and set it on ice in a cold place till wanted. GELATINE WAFERS are made by mixing 1 lb. of gelatine with 1 oz. of loaf sugar, making them into a paste with boiling water, and colouring it with a little cochineal or currant juice. Run it out of the desired thinness upon a sheet of glass or marble, and when cold cut ii into discs with a punch. GENEVA. See Gin. GENEVA CAKES. Mix into i lb. of flour sifted sugar and butter, of each 4 ozs., a little lemon zest and juice, the white of two eggs, and as much warm milk as will make it into a paste; roll it thin, cut it into large cakes, wash them over with yolk, and sift sugar over them. GENOISES. Put into an earthen pan 6 ozs. of powder sugar, six whole eggs, ^ lb. of flour, the same of sweet almonds pounded, a little orange- flower water, a small quantity of salt, and about .1 oz. of butter. Mix these ingredients together well, butter a baking plate, and spread the pre- paration over it to the thickness of half-a-crown piece ; put it into a brisk oven until of a proper colour, and cut your genoises into such forms E3 you may fancy; set them m a stove to .dry, and then serve them. When you have proceeded thus far you may, if you think proper, ornament them, which is done in the following manner :—Do them all over with a glace roijale of different colours according to your taste, and place them in a stove a minute or two to dry the glace. When cold garnish them with apple or currant jelly. GENOISES, PASTE FOR. Take lib. of flour, f lb. of sugar, and ^ lb. of butter; rub the rind of two or three lemons upon a part of the sugar, crush it with a rolling-pin, and then roll it to a very fine powder. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put into it a little salt, four yolks, and four whole eggs, with the butter and sugar; work them together well, and having made your paste, roll it out, and cut it into bands, which roll the size of jomv little finger; cut them of equal lengths, and form them into S's or horseshoes; slit the sides and ends, lay them on buttered tins, dorez, and bake them in an oven rather hotter than for baking biscuits. GENOISES, SMALL. Take some almond paste, and having worked it up well, add to it a little gum dragon and starch, both in powder; sprinkle a sheet of paper with powder sugai-, lay the almond paste over it, and sprinkle that also with sifted sugar instead of flour. Take a small round paste cutter, and cut as many pieces from the paste as you may require ; then cut an equal number of strips, each long enough to surround the tartlet, and about half an inch wide ; fix these bands to the tartlets with the white of egg ; put a layer of almond paste on a tab!3 dish, add a rim to it, leaving the edge either plain or notched as you please; place on this layer as many genoises as it will contain, and set them in an oven to dry. When wanted for table fill them according to your taste with three or four sorts of preserves. GENTIAN. The part sold by druggists is the root of Gentiana httea, a plant native of the alpine districts of Europe. Gentian pos- sesses the general virtues of . bitters in an eminent degree, and it is totally devoid of astringency. On dead animal matter it acts as an antiseptic Taken into the stomach it proves a powerful tonic, and in large doses it evacuates the intestines. It is useful in weakness of the stomach and in general debility. Externally its powder is applied to malignant ulcers. Narcotic eff'ects have sometimes been ascribed to it, but these are owing to the roots of narcotic plants gathered along with it. These narcotic roots are probably those of a species of monk's- hood [Aconitum thora); but these are distinguish- able from the gentian by being white when cut, whereas the gentian roots exhibit a yellow colour when cut. The bitter principle has been ex- tracted from gentian, and may be had in goldon- coloured crystals. Two grains of these are aGIB C 551 ] GER dose, and are equal in effect to half a draclim of the powder of gentian root. Gentian is ren- dered more grateful both to the palate and the stomach by the addition of an aromatic, orange- peel usually being employed. Of the infusion of gentian from 1 oz. to 4 ozs. may be taken twice daily, or a tea-spoonful of the tincture of gentian in a glass of cold water. These doses are to act as a tonic or strengthener of the stomach. An intensely bitter spirit is distilled from gentian, which is much relished by the lower orders of Swiss. GERMAN PASTE FOR CAGE BIRDS. Take 1 lb. of wheat flour or of pease-meal, 2 ozs. of fresh butter, 4 ozs. of brown sugar, three eggs boiled hard and chopped very small; put the flour or meal, with the butter, chopped eggs, and sugar, into a wide saucepan over a slow fire, and keep stirring it to prevent its burning. When it gets dry continue stirring it until it becomes crumbly. When crumbly put a pint of cracked hempseed into the mixture, and mix well together. If burnt it is injurious to the birds. It will be good for mouths if kept in a dry, cool place. GERMAN RICE is the same as Pearled Barley. GERMAN TINDER. See Boletus Tinder. GERMAN YEAST. Take brewery, or, by preference, distillery yeast, aud filter it through a muslin or silk sieve into a tub or vat con- taining about four or five times the quantity of soft or cold spring water. The water must be as cold as possible, and in summer ice should be dissolved in it. As soon as the liquid yeast comes into the water the whole must be well stirred up, in preference with a broom, until it is thoroughly mixed, and has a good foam or light head; leave it until quite settled and the water becomes clear, and then draw the sur- face water gently off, so as not to disturb the settled substance. The tub should have cocks at different heights, to allow the water to be drawn off gently by opening the highest cocks first. This done, you again pump the tub full of cold water, and stir it up again; let it settle, and draw off as before, and repeat this operation until the water becomes tasteless and clear; that is, till the water has cleansed the yeast of all its bitterness; then add to the settled substance, for every twelve gallons of yeast employed at the commence- ment, i oz. of carbonate of ammonia, and 1 oz. of bicarbonate of soda, which should be pre- viously dissolved in a pint of cold water. Mix this liquid with the purified yeast, and leave it in this state for the night, or twelve or fourteen hours; then pump cold water again into your tub, stir it well up as before, and when settled draw it off, which concludes the purifying process. This done, the yeast m its settled state must be emptied into a clean linen bag, tied up, and placed between two boards large enough to cover the bag, which is intended to press the liquid substance out, which must be done as gently as possible, so that the substance becomes gradually freed from water, and forms itself into a substance similar to bread paste or dough, which can then be formed to size and weight as needed. In Austria the weight is something near 1 lb. when dry, in square forms, and about one inch thick. The whole process should be conducted in a vei"y cool place, and when once the pressed j'east has become moistly dry it should be kept in a cold place, as otherwise the yeasting process will begin; whereas, kept in a cold place, it will keep from eight to ten days in summer, and from ten to fifteen in winter, but not longer in Austria. GHERKINS: To Pickle. Let them lie three or four days in salt and water, then wipe them dry, and put them in stone jars. Boil a sufficient quantity of the best vinegar, with plenty of ginger, black pepper, allspice, a few cloves, a little mace, some horseradish, peeled onions and shallots, and a small quantity of garlic ; pour this over the gherkins, cover the jar with vine leaves and a plate, and set them near the fire. Next day drain off the vinegar, boil it, pour it hot over them, and lay fresh leaves. When cold tie them down closely with bladder and leather. If you wish to have the gherkins green keep them in hot vinegar some time before they are bottled. GIBLET PIE (I). Very nicely clean a goose or duck's giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs till nearly done, and let them grow cold ; then, if there is not a sufficient quantity to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or mutton steak at the bottom ; put the liquor of the giblets also into the dish, and bake it. When the pie is baked pour in a large cupful of cream. You may add, if you please, sliced potatoes, and bake them with the pie. GIBLET PIE (2). Clean and half stew two or three sets of goose giblets, cut the leg in two. the wing aud neck into three, and the gizzard into four pieces; preserve the liquor, set the giblets by till cold, and season the whole with black pepper and salt; then put them into a deep dish, cover with paste, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, oi'nament it, and bake it an hour and a half in a moderate oven. While doing take the liquor the giblets were stewed in, and skim it clean ; put it over the fire in a pan ; thicken it with flour and butter, or flour and water; season it with pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; add a little browning, strain it throughGIB GIL [ 552 ] a sieve, and when the pie is baked pour some of this into it through a funnel. You may lay a rump steak at the bottom of the dish. GIBLET SOUP. Take three or four sets of goose or duck's giblets, and stew them with a pound or two of gravy beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton, with three onions, a large bundle of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt; add five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards, which must each be in four pieces, are quite tender; skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom powder, and 1 oz. of butter mixed with a dessert- spoonful of flour; let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of catsup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen add salt. GIBLETS, STEWED. Do them as directed for GiBLET Pie, and season with salt, pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving give them one boil with a cup of cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. GIDDINESS, or Vertigo. Giddiness is generally considered an indication of the brain being compressed, or rather, oppressed, by over- distended blood-vessels; but it is a symptora both of plenitude and depletion, and is a uniform precursor of fainting after the loss of blood. Indeed, every practitioner of experience and observation must be aware that cases of giddiness frequently occur in which it is often difficult to determine whether it be the eff'ect of congestion of blood-vessels, or some dis- ordered condition of the brain, or sympathetic of an affection of the stomach or bowels. The late Dr. Baillie acknowledged that he was often at a loss to determine the cause of giddiness, and whenever it was not clear he generally ordered an abstraction of 6 ozs. or 8 ozs. of blood by cupping, as a test of its nature. If this treatment afforded no relief, and especially if it aggravated the complaint, he recommended the following:—Take of camphorated julep 7 ozs.; powdered valerian root, 3 drachms ; compound spirit of ammonia, 3 drachms; car- bonate of soda, 8 drachms; tincture of cascarilla, 6 drachms: mix. Three table-spoonsful to be taken three times a day. In general we may judge of the state of the blood-vessels of the brain, by the appearance of the eyes, particularly if the vessels of the external tunic be considerably distended. Tliis, however, does not afford a certain indication; but when with this appearance the giddiness is increased by positions of the body that favour the afflux of blood to the head, as stooping, looking upwards, lying down, &c., there can be little doubt of the complaint being congestion of the vessels of the head. We have known patients who had scarcely been free for one month from attacks of giddiness for fifty years, which were sometimes attended with a degree of loss of sense and motion nearly approaching to apoplexy, but who always experienced an aggravation of the complaint from bleeding. They all died at an advanced age of diseased bowels. Flatulence is a common cause of giddi- ness, probably by distending the stomach and bowels, so as to compress the vessels of the belly, and check the return of blood from the head. In such case it is clear that the object o*. practice is to expel the gas accumulated in the alimentary canal by a stimulant (as brandy or spirit of sal volatile), and that abstraction of blood would prove injurious. A clergyman of Herefordshire, apparently predisposed to apo- plexy, always had recourse to the following gout cordial whenever he was affected with giddiness, in direct opposition to the advice of his physician, the late Dr. Campbell; and by this practice, and attending to his bowels, he lived to a good old age ; and the doctor was at length so satisfied of the benefit he derived from it that he had recourse to it himself when- ever he was affected with giddiness, although apparently produced by cerebral congestion, and he thought he thereby prolonged his life many years :—Take of the best Turkey rhubarb sliced, i oz.; the lesser cardamom seeds bruised, 6 drachms; hay saffron, 8 drachms; orange- peel bruised, 2^ ozs.; spirit of the bucku leaves, 1 quart: mix. After standing in a bottle well corked for a fortnight, during which the liquor should be shaken once a day, strain the liquor through fine gauze for use, The dose is from two table-spoonsful to a wine-glassful, according to the degree of pain or spascns in the stomach or bowels. GILDING is the application of gold to the surface of bodies, and is of two kinds, according to the method of applying the gold. Wood, leather, paper, and soft substances are gilt by fastening on leaves of gold by some cement. The gilding of wood and similar sub- stances is of three kinds—oil gilding, bur- nished gilding, and jupanners'' gilding. Metals are gilt by a chemical application of the gold to the surface, and this is called water gilding. Gold Leaf. There are three kinds of gold leaf in use. ♦ Pure gold leaf is made by hammering gold between the leaves of a book made of skins till it is sufficiently thin. Pale gold leaf, with a greenish colour, is made of gold alloyed with silver. Dutch gold (brought from Holland) is copper leaf coloured by the fumes of zinc. It is cheaperGIL GIL 553 tban true leaf-gold, and useful where large quantities of gilding are wanted, which can he defended from the weather, and where great nicety is not required ; hut it changes colour when exposed to moisture, and in all cases its beauty is soon impaired unless secured by varnish. The instruments necessary for gilding are the cushion, knife, tip, and fitch. The cushion, for receiving the leaves of gold from the books, is made by covering a board of about eight inches square with a double thicks ness of Hannel, and over that a piece of buff leather, and fastening it tightly round the edges. The Jcnife for cutting the leaves into the requisite sizes is made like a pallet knife, with an edge not too sharp. The tip, a tool made by fastening the long hairs of a squirrel's tail between two cards, is used for taking up the gold leaf after it is cut, and laying it on the article to be gilded. A /itch pencil is used for the same purpose as the last, in taking up very small bits of gold leaf. A ball of cotton is used for pressing down the leaf after it is laid on; a large camel's hair hrmh for dusting the work, and clearing away the superfluous gold. Oil Gilding. Piime your work first by brushing over it boiled linseed oil and white- lead. When dry do it over with a thin coat of gold size, consisting of stone ochre ground in fat oil. When that is so dry as to feel clammy it is fit for gilding. Spread your leaves of gold upon the cushion, cut them into slips of the proper width for covering your work, breathe upon your tip, as by moistening it thus it will cause it to take up the leaves from the cushion. Apply them by the tip on the proper parts of your work, and press them down by the ball of cotton. Eepair by putting small pieces of gold on any parts which you have omitted to cover. When your work is covered let it dry, and then clear it off with the brush. This sort of gilding, the easiest and least expensive, will stand the weather, and may at any time be cleaned with a little water. Burnished Gilding is the sort generally used for picture frames, looking-glasses, &c. The wood intended to be gilt in this manner should first be sized, and then done over with about eight coats of size and whiting, to cover it with a body of considerable thickness. Having laid a sufficient quantity of whiting upon the work, it must be cleaned off, freeing all the cavities and hollows from the whiting that may have choked them up, and by proper moulds and tools restoring the sharpness of the mouldings. It then receives a coat of size, made by boiling Armenian bole with parchment size. As this must not remain till it is quite dry, it is prudent not to lay on more at a time than can be gilt before it becomes too dry. The work being thus prepared, place it a little declining from you, and with clean water and a hair pencil moisten a part of it, and then apply the gold by the tip to the moistened part. The gold will immediately adhere closely to the work. Proceed to wet the next part, and apply the gold as before, repeating this operation till the whole is completed. Let not any drops of water come upou the gold already laid on; therefore no part should be missed in going over it at first, since it is not so easily mended as oil gilding. The work being thus gilt remains twenty-four hours, when the parts designed to be burnished are polished with a dog's tooth or an agate burnisher, but the gilding must not be quite dry when it is burnished. Japanners' Gilding. To gild japanned work draw with a hair pencil in gold size the in- tended ornaments, and afterwards apply gold leaf or gold powder. The gold size is prepared in the following manner:—Take of linseed oil and of gum animi 4 ozs. Boil the oil in a proper vessel, add the gum animi gradually in powder, stirring each quantity about in the oil till it be dissolved ; then put in another till the whole is mixed with the oil. Let the mixture continue to boil till it acquires a thicker con- sistence than tar; then strain the whole through a coarse cloth, and keep it for use ; but when applied it must be mixed with vermilion and oil of turpentine. Having laid on the gold size, and allowed it to dry, the gold leaf is applied in the usual way; or, if it is not wanted to shine so much, gold powder is applied, which is made by grinding gold leaf upon a stone with honey, and afterwards wash- ing the honey away with water. If the gilding is varnished Dutch gold may be used instead of real gold powder, or aurum miisivum may be used. To write on paper with letters of gold. Put gum arable into writing ink, and write in the usual way. When the writing is dry breathe on it; the warmth and moisture will soften the gum, and cause it to fasten on the gold leaf, which may be laid on in the usual way, and the superfluous part brushed off; or, instead of this, use japanners' size. To lay gold upon white earthenware or glass. Draw your design upon the vessel to be gilt with japanners' gold size, moistening it, if necessary, with oil of tui-pentine. Set your work in a room free from dust to dry for an hour; then place it so near the fire that you can just bear the heat of it with your hand for a few[ 554 ] GIN GIL seconds; let it remain there till it feels clammy; then lay some gold leaf on in the usual way, and put the ware into an oven to be baked for about three hours. Glasses, &c., are gilt by drawing the figures with shell gold mijfed with gum arabic and borax ; then apply sufficient heat to it, and, lastly, burnish it. To make shell gold. Grind up in a mortar gold leaf with honey; then wash away the honey with water, and mix the gold powder with gum water. This may be applied to any article with a camel's hair pencil in the same way as any other colour. GILDING : To Revive. Gilding, whether on picture frames or other articles, may be re- vived by the following mixture :—Beat up 3 ozs. of the white of egg with 1 oz. of common salt. Apply the mixture by the aid of a soft brush of camel's hair. GILLIFLOWERS, SYRUP OF. Gather the flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red. To a quart of flowers put two quarts of spring water, let it stand for two days in a cold place, and, after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it off, put in i lb. of double-refined sugar, and boil it up again for three or four minutes ; pour it into a china basin, let it cool, and when it is quite cold skim it. Put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. GIN. This spirit, so favoured among Englishmen, originally came to us from the Dutch, and was thence called hollands and hollands-genievre. The last word was corrupted into geneva, and finally contracted into gin. In France and in Bi'abant gcnievre is the name for juniper, the berries of which are used to give this spirit a flavour; and hollands-genievre, if intei'preted, meant the Dutch junipered spirit. Scheidam is a name applied to gin from a town in Holland so called, where a large quantity was manufactured. Gin has for its chief ingredient spirit distilled from fermented com, and its flavour is princi- pally derived from the oil of juniper berries dissolved in it. Juniper berries alone, however, will not impart the taste preferred by English palates, and the following recipe tells its own tale on this point:—Mix together 80 gallons of corn spirit; oil of turpentine, i pint; oil of junipei', 3 ozs.; creosote, 2 drachms ; oranges and lemons, of each nine, cut in slices ; and water, 35 gallons. Let the mixture remain for a week, and then distil off" 100 gallons of it. The turpentine gives what is called a ^j/a»i gin flavour, the creosote gives a slight taint of smokiness, and the lemons, &c., give a creami- ness and richness. It is a lamentable fact that the popular taste for gin is scarcely more than a hundred years old, for it was only at the commencement of the last century that it was discovered that a palatable liquor could be distilled from malt. There is no doubt that English gin, when properly manufactured, a circumstance not very common, indeed, is a most excellent diuretic, especially when it agrees with a patient, which it most generally does. A deficiency of urine attends many complaints, and it is always better to procure a regularity in the discharges by diet than by medicine. British gin diluted will be found most beneficial in those cases where the discharge of urine is languid or imperfect. Hollands gin will not be found so beneficial, as it wants as a component the essential oil of juniper berries. Hollands is, indeed, often entirely free from it, being flavoured only by the empyreuma it receives from the ashes em- ployed to rectify the spirit. The gin of this country also differs very much in its diuretic property, some juniper berries being more pro- ductive of essential oil than others, and many dis- tillers make use of other aromatics, as coriander seeds, &c., with a small proportion of juniper berries. It would be invidious to recommend any particular distilled spirit as being of a superior quality: it must be tasted and ap- proved by its effects, as the only means of as- certaining its medicinal virtue. GINGER. This is the fleshy, creeping root- stock of the Zingiber officinale, a native of the East and West Indies. The plant grows some- what in the form of the lily of the valley, but rises to the height of about three feet. In Jamaica ginger attains its full height, flowers about August or September, and fades about the close of the year. When the stalks are entirely withered the roots are in a proper state for digging. This is generally jDerformed in the months of January and February. After being dug they are picked, cleansed, and gradually scalded in boiling water. They are then spread out, and exposed every day in the sun till sufficiently dried, and, after being divided into parcels of about 100 lbs. weight each, they are packed in bags for the market. This is called the black ginger. White ginger is the root of the same plant, but instead of the roots being scalded, by which they acquire the dark appearance of the former, each root is picked, scraped, separately washed, and afterwards dried with great care. Of course more than a double expense of labour is incurred, and the market price is proportionably greater. Black ginger loses part of its essential oil by being thus im- mersed in boiling water. On this account it is less useful for medical and other purposes than the white, which is always good when perfectly sound and free from worm holes ; but that im- ported from the East Indies is stronger thanGIN [ t any we have from Jamaica. Ginger is generally considered as an aromatic, less pungent and heating to the system than might be expected from its effects upon the organs of taste. It is used as an antispasmodic and carminative. The cases in which it is more immediately serviceable are flatulent colics, debility and laxity of the stomach and intestines, and in torpid and phlegmatic constitutions to excite brisker vas- cular action. It is seldom given but in com- bination with other medicines. In the pharma- copoeias it is directed in the form of a syrup and a condiment, and in many compositions it is ordered as a subsidiary ingredient. From six- teen grains to a scruple of the powder mixed in milk is the usual dose. Whilst the root-stocks are young, fresh, and tender it is preserved, that from China being the best. Ginger ""tea has been much commended by Sir Joseph Banks, and others who suffered from gout. See Tea. GINGER APPLE-PASU. Pulp some apple, and add a sufficient quantity of sugar or honey; dry it over a gentle heat, stirring it with a wooden, ebony, or ivory spatula till it begins to stick ; sift sugar upon a tray kept on purpose, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, more or less; cut it into any form, and dry it in a slow oven. They are to be kept in boxes, and when wanted may be used for garnishing dessert dishes in paper, or frosted with sugar or powder of flowers in different colours. GINGER BEER (1). Put in a perfectly clean tub or bucket 4 lbs. of brown sugar, 1-| oz. of race ginger cracked, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, and four gallons of boiling water. When cool add half a pint of home-made yeast, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand precisely twenty-four hours; then skim it, strain it through a cloth, and bottle and cork it tightly. Do not let the beer go into the neck of the bottles, or they will burst. This quantitj' will fill sixty bottles. It will be fit for use in three or four days. If it is needed in two days put in one pint of yeast. This is a particularly acceptable beverage in warm weather. GINGER BEER (2). Get a gallon of soft water (rain water, if clear, is the best), and put into it about 2 lbs. of the best refined lump sugar, two fresh lemons sliced, 2 ozs. of powdered ginger, and a dessert-spoonful of cream of tartar. Simmer them over the fire for half an hour, but without boiling; then add a table-spoonful of yeast, ferment it in the usual way, and bottle it for use. It is an excellent stomachic, and good against flatulence. GINGER CAKES. Put 4 lbs of flour upon a dresser; then take a copper saucepan, break into it six eggs, and mix them well with a spoon ; add one pint of cream to them, and beat 5 ] GIN them well; set the saucepan over the fire, and stir till your mixture is warm. Put 2 lbs. of butter into the cream and eggs, and 1 lb. of sugar, and keep stirring it over a very slow fire just to melt all the butter; put in 4 ozs. of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the butter is melted pour it into the middle of the flour; mix it as well as you possibly can till it comes to a fine paste; then roll it out with flour under it on your dresser; cut the cakes to the size of the top of a tea-cup, a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, and before you put them into the oven (wliich should be very hot) place three papers under them. GINGER, CANDIED. Put 1 oz. of ginger finely grated, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar, into a preserving pan, with as much water as will dis- solve them, and stir them well together over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil; then add another pound of sugar, stirring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set the drops in a warm place to dry, and they will be hard and brittle, and look white. GINGER CRACKERS. Mix together in a deep pan a pint of West India molasses, i lb. of butter, J lb. of brown sugar, two large table-spoonsful of ginger, a tea spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a small tea-spoonful of pearlash or soda dissolved in a little warm water, and sufficient sifted flour to make a dough just stiff enough to roll out conveniently. Let-the whole be well incorporated into a large lump; knead it till it leaves your hands clean, and then beat it hard with a rolling-pin, which will make it crisp when baked. Divide the dough, and roll it out into sheets half an inch thick; cut it into cakes with a tin cutter about the usual size of a cracker biscuit, or with the edge of a tea-cup dipped frequently in flour to pre- vent its sticking; lay the cakes at regular dis- tances in square pans slightly buttered, set them directly in a moderately brisk oven, and bake them well, first pricking them with a fork. Ginger crackers are excellent on a sea voyage. If made exactly as above they will keep many weeks. GINGER CUP-CAKE. Mix three cups of flour, one of sugar, one of molasses, one of butter, a table-spoonful of ginger, a table-spoon- ful of saleratus, and three eggs. Bake in pans. A pound of stoned and chopped raisins is an improvement. GINGER DROPS. Put 2 ozs. of candied orange-peel and a little sugar into a mortar, and beat them to a paste ; then mix 1 oz. of powdered white ginger with 1 lb. of loaf sugar; wet the sugar with a little water, boil the whole together to a candy, and drop it on the paper in moderate-sized drops.[ 556 ] GIN GIN GINGER, ESSENCE OF. Put 3 ozs. of freshly-grated ginger and 1 oz. of tliinly-cut lemon-peel into a quart of brandy ; let it stand for ten days, shaking it up each day, and strain through blotting paper. GINGER ICE CREAM. Take 4 ozs. ol preserved ginger, pound it, and put it into a basin, with two gills of syrup, the juice ol a lemon, and a pint of cream; then freeze it. GINGER, MOCK. Peel off the outer coat of the tender stems of lettuces that are short, cut it into pieces one or two inches long, throw them into cold water, and to each pound put in a tea-spoonful of Cayenne and a little salt. Let them stand one or two days, and allow an equal proportion of fine loaf sugar, which clarify; soak some good ginger in hot water, slice it, and add it to the sugar, allowing 1^ oz. to 1 lb., and boil it fifteen minutes; strain off the water from the lettuce, and pour over it the syrup, keeping back the ginger, with which the syrup must be boiled three times and poured over the lettuce, two or three days intervening Letween each boiling; and at last add the strained juice of one or two lemons. GINGER, OXLEY'S CONCENTRATED ESSENCE OF. This is made by soaking for six or seven days, frequently shaking the mix- ture, 1 oz. of powdered ginger in a pint of proof spirit, and then filtering it through blotting paper. It is a powerful stomachic and stimulant. GINGER POP. Take fifteen gallons of water and 8 ozs. of ginger, boil them together half an hour, and then add 10 lbs of clarified sugar; let it boil a few minutes, skimming it all the time ; put the liquor into a cooler, let it stand till lukewarm, and then cork it, putting into the cask the rinds and juice of fifteen good lemons, i oz. ol isinglass melted in half a pint of warm water, a quart of brandy, and two table-spoonsful of yeast; bung up the cask, and set it in a cool cellar for ten days, when it may be strained into bottles, taking care to wire the corks. GINGER, PRALINEED. Prepare exactly as in Candied Ginger, but with sugar syrup, and when it has come to the point boil the syrup nearly to a candy height, put in the ginger, and rub the sugar round the edges of the vessel to granulate it. Lay the ginger on a fine wire grill to dry, wrap it in paper, and pack it in boxes. GINGER, PRESERVED. Take some gi'een ginger, pare it neatly with a sharp knife, and as it is pared throw it into a pan of cold water to keep it white. When you have a sufficient quantity boil it till tender, changing the water three times. Each time put it into cold water to take out the heat or spirit of the ginger, and when tender throw it into cold water. For 7 lbs. of ginger clarify 8 lbs. of refined sugar; when cold drain the ginger, and put it into an earthen pan, with a sufficient quantity of the sugar (cold) to cover it, and let it stand for a couple of days; then pour the syrup from the ginger to the remainder of the sugar, boil it some time, and when cold pour it on the ginger again, and set it by the fire three days at least; then take the syrup from the ginger, boil it, and pour it hot over the ginger; proceed in the same manner till you find the sugar has entered the ginger, boiling the syrup, and skimming off the scum that rises each time until the syrup becomes rich as well as the ginger. If the syrup is put on hot at first, or if too rich, the ginger will shrink, and will not take the sugar. GINGER SNAPS. Mix 2i lbs of flour, i lb. of butter or lard, ^ lb. of sugar, a pint of niolasses, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, and caraway seeds or ginger. The snaps should be rolled ve)-y thin, and baked only a few minutes. They soften by being kept. GINGER SPRIGS. Take three eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of flour, a little ginger, and two spoonsful of rose water , mix the whole into A paste, and cut it into what form you please GINGER, SYRUP OF. This is made from an extract, first obtained by infusing in a quart of boiling water 2 ozs. of ground ginger. Filter it through paper, add to it 2 lbs of sugar, and boil it into a syrup. GINGER TEA. Strong ginger tea, sweet- ened and taken hot on going to bed, is very good. Where persons have been exposed to the air, and think they have taken fresh cold, keep the feet warm by taking a hot brick to bed, and do not increase the cold the next day. If it is not deeply seated taking this a few nights will give relief. A piece of ginger root, kept about a person to chew, is good for a tickling in the throat, which many persons are subject to when sitting in close, heated apartments, in lecture- rooms, or places of worship. GINGER WINE (1). Put ten gallons of water into a boiler, with 15 lbs, of lump sugar, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten and strained, and mix all well together while cold. When the liquor boils skim it well, put in ^ lb. of common white ginger bruised, and let it boil twenty minutes. Have in readiness the rinds of seven lemons (the rinds must be very thin), pour the liquor on them, and when cool tun it with two spoonsful of yeast. To a quart of the liquor put 2 ozs. of isinglass shavings. While warm whisk it well three or four times, and pour the whole into the barrel. Next day stop it up, in three weeks bottle it, and in three months it will be fit to drink. GINGER WINE (2). Boil four gallons of water and 7 lbs. of sugar half an hour, skimmingGIN [ 557 ] GIN it all the time. When cold squeeze in the juice of two lemon?, then boil the peels with 2 ozs. of white ginger in three pints of water one hour, and as soon as this is cold put it to the rest, with a gill of finings and 3 lbs. of Malaga raisins; then close it up, let it stand two months, and bottle it o£F. GINGERBREAD. Rub 1 lb. of butter well into 3 lbs. of flour; add 1 lb. of powder sugar, 1 lb. of treacle, 2 ozs. of ginger pounded and sifted finely, and a nutmeg grated finely; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream, and mix the whole together. You may add caraways and sweetmeats if you choose. Make it into a stiff paste, and bake it in a slow oven. If cakes or biscuits are kept in paper or a drawer they will acquire a disagreeable taste. A pan and cover or tureen will preserve them long and moist; or, if required to be crisp, laying them before the fire will make them so. GINGERBREAD, AMERICAN. Take ^ lb. of fresh butter melted, 1^ lb. of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of brown sugar, ^ lb. of pounded ginger, nine eggs (the yolks and whites separately beaten), a glass of rose water, and one of white wine. Mix all these well to- gether, and beat it for an hour; then with a spoon spread it over flat tin pans about the thickness of a penny piece, bake it of a light brown, and while warm cut it into oblong pieces, and place them on end till cool, when they will be very crisp. GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BUTTER. Mix 2 lbs. of treacle ; orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, of each 4 ozs., all thinly sliced ; 1 oz. of coriander seeds, 1 oz. of caraways, and 1 oz. of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste ; lay it in cake or tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered eatthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. GINGERBREAD CAKES, RICH. To 1 lb. of dried and sifted flour allow i lb. of pounded loaf sugar, f lb. of fresh butter washed in . rose water, 1 lb. of treacle, a nutmeg grated, the weight of a nutmeg of pounded mace, as much of pounded cinnamon, 1 oz. of pounded ginger, 1^ oz. of candied orange and lemon-peel cut small, i oz. of blanched sweet almonds cut it into long thin bits, and two well-beaten eggs. Melt the butter with the treacle, and wlien nearly cold stir in the eggs and the rest of the ingredients; mix all well together, make it into round cakes, and bake them upon tins. , GINGERBREAD, CARAWAY. Cut up ^ lb. of fresh butter in a pint of West India molasses, and warm them together slightly till the butter is quite soft; then stir them well, and add gradually 1 lb. of good brown sugar, a table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and two heaped table-spoonsful of ground ghiger, or three if the ginger is not very strong. Sift 2 lbs. or two quarts of flour, beat four eggs till very thick and light, and stir them gradually into the mixture, in turn with the flour and five or six large table-spoonsful of caraway seeds, a little at a time; dissolve a very small tea- spoonful of pearlash or soda in as much luke- warm water as will cover it, and stir it in at the last. Stir all very hard, transfer it to a buttered tin pan with straight sides, and bake it in a loaf in a moderate oven. It will require a great deal of baking. GINGERBREAD, COMMON. Take a pint of molasses, 1 lb. of fresh butfsr, 2J lbs. of flour sifted, a pint of milk, a small tea- spoonful of pearlash, or, if it is strong, a tea- cupful of ginger ; cut the butter into the flour, and add the ginger. Having dissolved the pearlash in a little vinegar, stir it with the milk and molasses alternately into the other ingredients; stir it very hard for a long time till it is quite light. Put some flour ou your paste board, take out small portions of the dough, and make it with your hands into long rolls ; then curl up the rolls into round cakes, or twist two rolls together, or lay them in straight lengths or sticks side by side, and touching each other ; put them carefully in buttered pans, and bake them in a moderate oven not hot enough to burn them. If they should get scorched scrape off with a knife or grater all the burnt parts before you put the cakes away. You can if you choose cut out the dough with tins in the shape of hearts, circles, ovals, &c.; or you may bake it all in one, and cut it into squares when cold. GINGERBREAD, CORSICAN. Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1^ lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, nine eggs, a glass of wine, and a cup of ginger. Spread very thin with a knife on tin sheets, keep the dough two inches from the edge of the sheets, and sift sugar over it before you put it into the oven. GINGERBREAD, CRISP. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of sugar, and 1 lb. of butter; mix these together with three table-spoonsful of ginger, some cloves and anise-seed, and wet it with molasses ; roll it thin, cut it in shapes, and bake with a quick heat. GINGERBREAD, DUTCH. Mix 4 lbs. of flour with 2 ozs. of ginger, rub in J lb. of butter, 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, 2 ozs. of dried orange-peel grated or cut in fillets, a few bruised coriander seeds, a little candied citron, and two eggs; make it into a paste with 2^ lbs. of treacle, beat it well with a rolling-pin, and make it up into flat or thick cakes; cut, prick, and lay them upon three papers, one white and two brown, wash them over with white of egg, and tGIN GIN C 558 3 put then! into a very moderate oven. If tliin three quarters of an hour will do them, other- wise they must remain till, by testing, the knife comes out bright. GINGERBREAD, FLEMINGTON. Stir together till quite light J lb. of fresh butter and J lb. of brown sugar, and then mix in half a pint of West India molasses. Sift rather less than a pint and a half of flour, beat four eggs till very light, and stir them gradually into the mixture alternately with the sifted flour; add a heaped table-spoonful of ginger and 'a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and stir all well; dissolve a level tea-spoonful of soda or pearlash in as much water as will melt it, then stir it in at the last. Put the mixture into a buttered tin pan, either square or round, set it immediately in the oven, which must be brisk, but not hot, and bake it well. When you think it done probe it to the bottom with a knife, or a broom twig stuck down into tlie centre, and do not take the cake from the oven unless the knife comes out clean and dry. It requires long baking. GINGERBREAD, INDIAN. Take Uozs. of pounded loaf sugar, J lb. of fresh butter, 1 lb. of dried flour, 2 ozs. of pounded ginger, and ol cloves and cinnamon J oz. each. Mix the ginger and the spices with the flour; put tlie sugar and a small tea-cupful of water into a saucepan; when it is dissolved add the butter, and as soon as it is melted mix it with the flour and other things. Work the whole up, form the paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them upon tins. GINGERBREAD, LAFAYETTE. Take five eggs, i lb. of brown sugar, ^ lb. of fresh butter, a pint of sugar-house molasses, l^b. of flour, four table-spoonsful of ginger, two large sticks of cinnamon, three dozen grains of all- spice, three dozen cloves, and the juice and grated peel of two lemons. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the eggs very well, pour the molasses at once into the butter and sugar, add the ginger and other spices, and stir all well together. Put in the egg and flour alternately, stirring all the time ; stir the whole very hard, put in the lemon at the last, and when the whole is mixed stir it till very light. Butter an earthen pan, or a thick tin or iron one, put the gingerbread into it, and bake it in a moderate oven an hour or more according to its thickness. Take care that it does not, burn. Or you may bake it in small cakes or little tins. Its light- ness will be much improved by a small tea- spoonful of pearlash dissolved in a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and stirred lightly in at the last. Too much pearlash will give it an unpleasant taste. If you use pearlash you must omit the lemon, as its taste will be entirely destroyed by the pearlash. You may substitute for the lemon some raisins and currants, well floured to prevent their sinking. GINGERBREAD, LIGHT. Take three cups of molasses, five of flour, one of sugar, three eggs, and a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a cup of sour cream; work tlie sugar with J lb. of butter; beat two dozen cloves, and put them in with two table-spoonsful of ginger; mix the whole together, and bake in shallow pans or cups. GINGERBREAD, NEW YORK. Take one quart of molasses, 6 ozs. of butter, 1 oz. of ginger, I oz. of pearlash, one pint of milk, and three eggs. Use as much flour as will make it the thickness of pound cake. GINGERBREAD NUTS. Take 4 lbs. of flour, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, 1 oz. of caraway seeds, ^ oz. of ginger pounded and sifted, 6 ozs. of fresh butter, and 2 ozs. of candied orange- peel cut into small slices; then take 1 lb. of treacle or honey, a gill of cream, and make them warm together; mix it with all the in- gredients into a paste, and let it lay six hours ; then roll it out, malie it into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. GINGERBREAD, OATMEAL. Sift 4 lbs. of oatmeal, and mix with it 4 lbs. of treacle, i lb. of brown sugar, the same quantity of melted butter, and f oz. of powdered ginger. Work all well together, let it remain for twenty- four hours, and then make it into cakes. GINGERBREAD, RICH SUGAR. Take 1 lb. of flour, f lb. of sugar, |lb. of butter, four eggs, and a glass of brandy or rose water. GINGERBREAD, ROLL. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, seven eggs, a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a cup of milk, and a cup of ginger. Roll it out very thin on tin sheets. It will bake in ten or fifteen minutes. GINGERBREAD, SOFT SUGAR. Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, six eggs, a large tea-cupful of milk (sour if preferable), a tea-spoonful of saleratus, half a nutmeg, and half a large tea-cupful of ginger. GINGERBREAD, SPICED. Sift into a deep pan l^lb. of flour, and cut up in it ^Ib. of the best fresh butter; rub them together with your hands till thoroughly incorporated, then add i lb. of brown sugar crushed finely with the rolling-pin, and a table-spoonful of mixed spice, consisting of equal quantities of powdered cloves, mace, and cinnamon; also a table-spoonful of ground ginger, and two table- * spoonsful of caraway seeds. Mix the whole together, and wet it with a pint of West India molasses; dissolve a small tea-spoonful of pearlash or soda in a very little warm water, and mix it into the other ingredients; spread[ 559 ] GLA GIN some flour on your paste board, take the dough out of the pan, flour your hands, and knead the dough till it ceases entirely to be sticky; roll it out into a very thick square sheet, cut it into long straight slips, and twist every two slips together, rounding off the ends nicely; lay them (not too closely) in buttered square pans, and bake them well. As gingerbread burns easily take care not to have the oven too hot. Instead of forming it into twisted strips you may cut the sheet of gingerbread dough into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler, which, as you proceed, must be frequently dipped in flour, GINGERBREAD FOR TRAVELLING. Take 3 lbs. of treacle, 4 lbs. of flour, i lb. of sugar (both well sifted), 2 ozs. of pounded ginger, i oz. of allspice, J lb. of orange-peel, 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, ^ lb. of citron, i lb. of almonds, and I lb. of butter. Let the almonds be blanched and cut with the citi'on and orange- peel. It ought not to be much handled, but M-ell mixed. Bake it in small cakes or nuts in a quick oven. This bread, baked with the fruit pounded, is to be veiy well dried in a cool oven, then to be rasped, and again kneaded with as much butter and treacle as it will take. Knead it up with more fruit and spices, bake it well without burning, dip it in spirits of wine, with a few drops of the essence of caraway, cinnamon, or cloves ; dry it in the oven, and wash it over with isinglass and sugar, or white of egg; dry it again, and wrap it up in writing paper very closely; pack in a lined box, exclude the air, and it will keep years in a dry, but not warm place. This is an excellent sea store. GLACE ROYAL. Put the white of a new laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a suffi cient quantity of white powder sugar to make a glace, or icing, neither too dry nor too liquid ; beat it well, and add a little lemon juice to whiten it. By mixing with this glace carmine, saffron, indigo, spinach juice, &c., it will be either rose-coloured, yellow, blue, green, &c., according to your taste. GLASS. Looking upon a mass of flint and a mass of soda, two dull, opaque bodies, no one would foretell that their union would result in the production of bright, transparent glass ; much less could it be anticipated that the addition of red lead would render it still more translucent, and still more brilliant. Yet such is the truth. Glass cannot be made without intense heat, for the alkali retains the last portions of its carbonic acid and water with singular obstinacy, and it is only at a very high temperature that the alkali melts. When melted it at once dissolves and combines with the silica of the flint, illustrating that almost universal law of chemistry, that before two bodies can combine one must be in a fluid state. Metallic oxides have the property of rendering glass more fusible, and in this way the red oxide of lead operates beneflcially; but it also increases the density of the glass, giving to it a greater power of refracting the rays of light; and it is this power which renders it so brilliant when formed into goblets, decanters, and other vessels for table use, and which adapts it so eSiciently for optical purposes. Round glass, such as phials, drinking glasses, &c., are blown. When the different materials are sufficiently liquefied the workmen dip long iron pipes into it, and blow the metal till it lengthens like a bladder. It is then rolled on a marble slab to polish it, when it is blown a second time, in order to form it into the shape of a globe. Next it is cut off at the collet, or neck, adhering to the pipe. For this purpose the latter is rested on an iron bar close to the neck, and a drop of water poured on it, by which means it is cracked about a quarter of an inch, when it is slightly struck or cut by a pair of shears, and immediately separated. Now the workman dips the rod or pipe into the melting metal, whence he draws out as much as will connect the glass already made, to which he fixes the rod, opposite the opening caused by the breaking or cutting of the neck. In this position the glass is carried to the mouth of the furnace, in order to be heated or scalded. Thus it be- comes so soft that it may be pierced, opened, and moulded at pleasure without any apprehension of its breaking. The vessel, however, is not finished till it has again been returned to the mouth of the furnace, where, after being thoroughly heated and turned quickly round, it will open to any size by means of heat and circular motion. Should any impurities remain they are cut off with the shears, as the glass continues flexible till it becomes cool; and if the vessel thus made requires a foot or handle, or any other ornament, the operator forms them separately, and unites them by the help of hot metal drawn from the pots with the iron rod. The last operation for completing the glass is that of annealing. Window or table glass is worked nearly in the manner above described. The workman blows and manages the metal so that it extends two or three feet in a cylindrical form. It is then carried to the fire, and the operation of blowing repeated till the metal is stretched to the dimensions required, the side to which the pipe is fixed diminishing gradually till it ends in a pyramidal form ; but, in order to bring both ends nearly to the same diameter, while the glas3 continues flexible a small portion of hot metal is added to the pipe; the whole is drawn out with a pair of iron pincers, and the same end is cut off with a little cold water as before.L 560 GLA GLA The cylinder, thus open at one end, is returned to the mouth of the furnace, where it is cut by the aid of cold water, after which it is gradually heated on an earthen table, in order to unfold its length, while the workman with an iron tool alternately raises and depresses the two halves of the cylinder. By this process the latter ac- commodates itself to the same flat form, in which it is again heated, cooled on a copper table, hardened twenty-four hours in the annealing furnace, and afterwards preserved for use. Window glass is divided into various sorts, the principal of which are :— 1. Crown glass, which is the clearest and most expensive. The best window glass is made of white sand, 60 lbs.; purified pearlash, 30 lbs.; saltpetre, 15 lbs.; borax, 1 lb.; and arsenic, ^ lb. These materials are melted in the manner before mentioned, and if the glass should assume a dusky yellowish hue a suffi- cient quantity of manganese must be added to remove that defect. 2. Newcastle glass, which is most commonly used in England. It is of an ash colour, and frequently speckled, streaked, and otherwise blemished. Its preparation consists of white sand, 60 lbs.; unpurified pearlash, 25 lbs. ; common salt, 10 lbs.; arsenic, 21bs.; and man- ganese, 2 ozs. 3. Phial glass is an intermediate kind between flint and the common bottle or green glass. The better sort is made of white sand, 120 lbs.; unpurified pearlash, 501bs.; common salt, lOlbs.; arsenic, 5 lbs.; and manganese, 5 ozs. The com- position for green or common phial glass con- sists of the cheapest white sand, 120 lbs.; wood ashes well burnt and sifted, 80 lbs.; pearlash, 20 lbs.; common salt, 15 lbs.; and arsenic, 1 lb. 4. The common bottle or green glass is pre- pared from any kind of sand fused with wood ashes, to which may be added the clinkers of forges. Flate glass is the last and most valuable kind, and is thus called from its being cast in plates or large sheets. It is almost exclusively em- ployed for mirrors or looking-glasses, and for the windows of carriages. It is composed of white sand cleansed, 60 lbs.; purified pearlash, 25 lbs.; saltpetre, 15 lbs.; borax, 7lbs.; and if a yellow tinge should appear in the glass a small quantity of manganese and arsenic is added in equal proportions. Plate glass was formerly blown, but that method having been found veiy inconvenient, casting was invented; namely, the liquid metal is conveyed from the furnace to a large table, on which it is poured, and all excrescences or bubbles are immediately removed by a roller that is swiftly passed over it. It is then an- nealed in the manner already referred to. The last process is that of grinding, which is performed by machinery Glass is so remarkably elastic that if the force with which glass balls strike each other be computed at 16, that with which they recede from their elasticity will be nearly 15. Hence we have seen glass wigs, and even glass hnishes. If glass be exposed to the influence of dew it becomes moist, which does not happen either with silver or any other metal; and if a goblet or other drinking glass be filled with watei', and rubbed on the brim with a wet finger, it will im- part musical notes, higher or lower, in propor- tion as the glass contains more or less of that fluid. It likewise possesses considerable elec- trical properties, and is therefore frequently employed in experiments on electricity. It is a good plan to prepare glass which will be used to hold hot water by boiling it, which is effected by putting the articles into a kettle of cold water over the fire, letting them just boil, then taking the kettle off, and allowing them to remain in the water till cold. Ground glass may be imitated by pasting upon it white tissue paper. GLASS : To Mend. See Cement. ' GLASS PANES : To Remove. To effect this easily, rub some soft soap upon the putty, which in a few hours will usually be rendered soft. If this fails put some rags dipped in a strong solution of caustic potash upon the putty, and keep them wetted with it for three or four hours. GLASS PAPER is coarser than either sand paper or emery paper. It is, like them, used for scouring metallic surfaces, and is formed by sprinkling powdered glass upon paper Avetted with glue. GLASS, STORM. This meteorological in- strument is formed of a glass tube about an inch in diameter, closed at one end, filled with the following mixture, and then the open end covered with a piece of bladder. A Cologne- water bottle will answer as a substitute for a glass tube. Camphoi', 2 drachms; nitre, 1^ drachm; sal ammoniac, ^ drachm ; and rectified spirit of wine, 2 ozs. Mix until all are dis- solved. White flocks of the camphor float in the mixture, and these rise or fall previously to a change of weather. GLASSWARE, PACKING. Procure some straw or hay to pack the articles in, and if they are to be sent a long way, and are heavy, the hay or straw should be a little damp, which will pre- vent them slipping about. Let the largest and heaviest things be always put undermost in the box or hamper. Let there be plenty of straw, and pack the articles tightly; but never attempt to pack up glass or china which is of much consequence till it has been seen done by some[ 561 ] GLA GLA one used to the job. The expense will he hut trifling to have a person to do it who under- stands it, and the loss may be great if articles of such value are packed up in an improper manner. GLASSWARE. WASHING. Put a suffi- cient quantity of clean cold water into a wooden bowl or tub to cover your glasses with, and take care not to strike them against the side of the bowl, as they are easily broken. Never use any- thing of earthenware to wash glasses in on this account, for if you do but just touch the side of an earthen pan or basin it is almost sure to break the glass. If the glasses have been used with any kind of mixture which sticks hard on, you must carefully rub it off before you turn them down to drain; if you cannot get it off with cold water have some hot to wash them in, but dip them into cold water afterwards, or they will dry too soon, and will look smeary; nor should you let them drain longer than ten or fifteen minutes before you wipe them, for if they do it will be impossible to make them look well, as they will show where the spots of water have dried on. Have two cloths to wipe them with; let the one which is the dirtiest be used just to wipe off the drops of wet with, and the other to finish them with. Keep the cloths which you wipe the glasses with entirely for them, and in wiping them let one end of the cloth be in the left hand, and let it be open, not twisted ; put the foot of the glass into the left hand, and take the other part of the cloth in the right; you will then be able to do the glasses properly without fear of breaking, but let them be veiy lightly handled, particularly the small and thin ones; have the softest cloths to wipe those with, and never let them get too wet, as they are apt in that case to twist and stick round the glass, which will cause you to break them; therefore dry your cloths, or have fresh ones when wanted. Never let the glasses stand about when dirty, but let them be washed and put in their proper places immediately. Decanters. In cleaning decanters the greatest care is necessary both as to what you clean them with, and likewise that you do not break them, as they are very expensive, yet easily broken. Various are the ways of different persons in cleaning them, but you will find it best to have some thick brown paper cut into very small bits, so as to go with ease into the decanters; then cut a few pieces of soap very small, and pour some water milkwarm into the decanters upon the soap and paper, but be very particular not to put it in too hot, as that will crack them ; you may also put a little pearlash in. By well working this about in the decanters it will take off the crust of the wine if it has not been standing a great while, and give the glass a fine polish. When the decanters havo been scratched, and the wine left to stand in them a long time, you will perhaps find it difficult to get off. To effect tlris have a small cane with a bit of sponge tied tightly to one end: this you can easily do with some strong thread if you make a few notches near the end of the cane, that the thread may not slip off. By putting this into the decanter you will be able to remove any crust of the wine, but take care not to have the cane and sponge too large, so as to hui-t the neck of the decanter. Have corks to put into them while cleaning, as the stoppers are apt to stick very hard: this will endanger breaking the decanters, and likewise the stoppers. Let the cane be long enough to reach to the bottom of the decanter ; a strong wire or small iron rod which you can easily bend is very useful, with a bit of sponge or rag tied to the end of it, to rub the crust from the bottom of the decanter with. When the decanters have been properly washed let them be thoroughly dried, par- ticularly if they are not going to be used again for some time, for if they are put away damp with spots of water on them it will be sure to mildew them, which will spoil the look of them for ever after. Let them be turned down to dry in a proper rack for that purpose: if there should not be one turn them down in a jug, but do not put them on their necks without support, for any little thing may iu that case knock them down and break them. The stoppers are liable to stick in the neck of the decanters, which often causes the breaking of both. To prevent this, when the decanters are clean and empty wrap a piece of paper round each stopper before you put it into the neck of the decanter; this will keep the dust out, and prevent it from sticking ; they will then likewise always be ready when wanted, as it too often happens that when they are left out of the decanters they are lost or mismatched. If the decanters have wine in them when put by, you should have some good corks always at hand to put in instead of the stoppers : this will keep the wine much better, and prevent the stoppers sticking in, which they will very soon do if wine be suffered to stand in them. See China and Decanters. GLAUBER'S SALT, so called after an Amsterdam chemist, is a compound of sul- phuric acid and soda, and is called by chemists sulphate of soda. It is in the form of crystals, and has a saline, bitter taste. A common and useful purgative. Its nauseous taste may be in a great degree disguised by the addition of a small quantity of lemon juice or cream of tartar. Dose in crystals, | oz. to 2 ozs. In an effloresced (dried powdered) state it is just equal in efficacy 2 0GLA t 56a ] GLO to double the weight of that which is in a crystalline form. It is rendered more active by being combined with other purgative salts, espe- cially with Epsqm salt (sulphate of magnesia), and the compound is more soluble and less nauseous. A portion of triple salt, a magnesio- sulphate of soda, probably results from the com- bination—a salt which may be frequently detected in parcels of sulphate of magnesia, and may be known by its crystals, which are regular rhom- boids. It is also contained, according to Dr. Murray, in the brine or mother liquor of sea water, and it constitutes the whole of that salt which was formerly sold under the name of Lymington Glauber's salts. See Cheltenham Salts. GLAZE (1). Take the remains of any liquor in which meat has been cooked, and strain it through a silk sieve until quite clear ; then put it into a saucepan, and reduce it over a brisk fire. As soon as it is sufficiently done—that is, when it sticks to the spoon—put it into a smaller saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie. When wanted add a small piece of fresh butter to it to correct its saltness. GLAZE (2). Make a consomme with what- ever remnants of fowls or meat may be in the house ; strain it, and then put it on the fire with two or three whites of eggs beaten to a snow; stir till it boils, then set it on the side of the stove, and place fire on the saucepan lid. As soon as the eggs have set pass the glaze through a wet cloth, reduce this over a large fire, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its sticking, and then pour it into a pot for use. GLAZE OF EOOTS. Fill a saucepan three parts full of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions (have the largest quantity of the two latter); four or five cloves may also be added, and veal if you think proper. Moisten the whole with stock and water, boil your vegetables over a slow fire, and proceed in the usual manner. When wanted put a small quantity of it into a saucepan, make it hot over a slow fire, and in this state lay it gently over such articles as may require glazing. GLOVES. Although the most fashionable gloves, and those very generally worn, consist of leather, yet they are by no means the most healthy. Indeed, it is equally improper and unwholesome to cover the hands and arms with any other than woollen texture, which ought to be preferred by all females who are anxious to improve the complexion of those extremities. No cosmetics are so efi&cacious and safe as simple animal wool. Kid gloves are the most beautiful, from their softness, thinness, and elasticity, fitting the hand almost like a second skin. They are white, and dyed of all colours, but white kid is always worn in full dress. Those of French manufacture are certainly superior to ours in the neatness of the workmanship, and for elas- ticity they are highly prized. This superiority has occasioned many imitations in this country, and it is said that most of what are sold here for French are, in fact, home made from French or Italian sldns. We have few goats in England, therefore our kid leather is chiefly imported from Switzerland and Tuscany, whence it comes by way of Leghorn. Most of the lower- priced gloves sold for kid are made of lamb- skin, which is thicker. A vast, many are made in Worcestershire. It used formerly to be the custom in the south- west of Ireland to slaughter many cows while in calf. The skins of these xmborn calves were of extraordinary fineness and delicacy, and from such was prepared the leather of which the celebrated Limerick gloves were made. This practice, however, is now almost discontinued; and whatever merit the Limerick gloves may still possess is owing to the skill of the manu- facturer, and not to the superiority of his raw material, which is generally kid leather. Beaver gloves are among the most common of the cheap leather gloves, manufactured chiefly at Hereford. They are dyed of many colours, but they do not wash. Woodstock gloves are a superior kind of soft leather, made of lamb-skins, wbich have the advantage of bearing washing. They are manu- factured chiefly at Woodstock, in Oxfordshire, which has been celebrated for them ever since the time of Queen Elizabeth. Buckskin makes the strongest kind of leather gloves, and washes well. It may be had white and of various colours. Doe-skin is a thick, strong, and soft leather. Bears washing. Tan leather is the name of a very serviceable, strong, and cheap glove for riding, driving, or gardening. Its colour is that of bai'k or tan, and it is either common or York tan. Sheep-skin is not much used except in the army. It is generally white. Leather gloves are likewise sometimes lined with fleecy hosiery or fur for winter, and are sometimes cuff'ed. Machines have been lately invented for sew- ing leather gloves, by which the process is per- formed more accurately, and which reduces the price. The principal leather glove manufactories in England are at Worcester, Woodstock, Yeovil, Leominster, Ludlow, and London. Thread gloves are either of linen or cotton thread; but it is the former only that are properly known in the shops by the name of thread gloves, though it is now a common prac-[ 503 ] GLO GLU tice to pass off cotton thread for linen thread. They are a remarkably cool wear in summer, and bear washing perfectly. They are sometimes of unbleached yam. Cotton gloves are the cheapest of all, and are dyed of various colours: being warm, they are much in use for common wear. Many are im- ported from Germany of very low price. Berlin gloves are strong, and of white cotton. They wei'e originally imported from the continent, but are now made in great numbers in Not- tingham and Leicester. These and the other cotton gloves have almost driven away the common beaver. Jean, satteen, and cambric gloves are cut out of the cotton cloth of these names, and sewed to- gether : their use is confined to women. The first are strong, but the cambric gloves are bought merely for their cheapness, having nothing else to recommend them. Mittens are gloves made of various materials, of which the tips of the fingers are wanting, and are used in work that requires the points of the fingers to be uncovered. Silk gloves. These are of various qualities, determined by their weight and the neatness of workmanship. The French ivliite are the best. They are also black and coloured. A figured silk net glove has lately come much into use among ladies. It is extremely elegant and cool in summer. Gloves are now also made remarkably cheap of spun silk. Worsted gloves are of many kinds. Lambs' wool and Shetland are extremely soft and warm. Dutch knit, plain and lined, are strong and warm. German icorstcd are the cheapest. Worsted gloves, though not so elegant as others, have a great advantage in their real warmth in cold weather. The above gloves of silk, cotton, worsted, and thread are now generally woven in the loom, knit gloves, formerly so common, being seldom met with. Several other names of gloves may be found in shop lists, and every winter produces something new. Gloves of various kinds of cloth sewed are now introduced. They are warm, and fit well. Elastic wristbands to gloves are a late improvement.—[Encyclopiedia of Domestic Economy.) GLOVES, MANAGEMENT OF. Never pull them on forcibly by the wristband, but rub them on by pressing between and against the sides of the fingers. To prevent kid gloves becoming yellow wrap them in blue paper. To clean a kid glove put it on the hand, and apply over it, by means of a shaving brush, a strong lather made of brown soap ; wipe off the lather quickly with a clean towel, take off the glove, expand it by blowing, and hang it up to dry. To clean buckskin gloves. First wash them in warm water and soap until the dirt is removed ; then pull them out into their proper shape, or stretch them on wooden hands. Do not wring them, but place one on the other, and press the water out. Mix a little pipe- clay, or pipe-clay and yellow ochre, according to the colour required, with vinegar or beer. Rub this over the outside of the gloves, and let them dry gradually in the shade ; or, if in the house, not too near the fire. When about half dry rub them well, and stretch them on the hand or wooden mould; after they are rubbed and dried brush them with a soft brush to get out the dust. Finally, iron the gloves with a smoothing-iron moderately heated, taking the precaution to place a cloth or piece of paper over them, and they will look like new. Tanned gloves, commonly called Limerick, are economical in spring and autumn, as they do not soil so soon as white. The tan colour is made by infusing saffron in boiling water for about twelve hours, and rubbing the stuff over the leather with a brush. The water should be soft, and never applied to leather in any case at more than blood heat. Thread gloves, after washing, should be dried on a wooden hand. GLUE is made from waste pieces of skins, hides, tendons, &c. It is, in fact, concentrated animal jelly, or gelatine. There are various kinds of glue, cake or string glue, used by car- penters ; Flemish, used by cabinet-makers; French, used by the same for finer work; hat- makers', which becomes moist in damp weather, but is not brittle even when driest; Jish glue, made from the fins, &c., of the cuttle and other fish. It is a very pale-coloured glue, as is that made from parchment shavings, and called parchment glue. GLUE, LIQUID. Dissolve IJ oz. of shellac in I oz., by measure, of naphtha; put the shel- lac, broken finely, into a wide-mouthed bottle; stir it with a wire until dissolved, and keep it corked. If thicker than cream add more naphtha. This glue you will find always ready for use. It is perfectly waterproof, and ap- plicable to the purposes of the carpenter, joiner, and turner. It is used like common glue, the only difference being that the surfaces to bo joined together must be quite dry. GLUE, PORTABLE. Best glue, I lb. ; water sufficient. Boil it in a double gluo pot, and strain ; add fine brown sugar | lb., and boil it till pretty thick ; then pour it into moulds; when cold cut into small pieces and dry them. This glue is very useful to draughtsmen, architects, &c., as it immediately dilutes in warm water, fastens the paper without the process of damping, and may be softcued for many pur- poses with the tongue.GOH [ 504 ] G LU GLUE, SPIRIT. Beat 1 oz. of isinglass to shreds, put it into a small skillet, and pour over it a pint of brandy. Set the skillet over a slow fire, so that a very gentle heat may be applied to the mixture. In a short time the isinglass will be dissolved. When none of the isinglass remains strain the solution, and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle with a glass stopper, which must remain constantly closed. At the time it is required for use it must be liquefied by a moderate heat, which renders it thin and transparent. Used like ordinary glue for joining wood, it forms so tenacious a union of the parts, that the point of junction is stronger and more difficult to break than any other part of the wood. Also, if sawdust be mixed with the glue and formed into a ball, tliis will become solid and elastic, so as to be fit for turning. By this process it may be hollowed out into a bowl, which, provided it be kept from the wet, will last lor ages. This solution in brandy never corrupts, and is there- fore the best form of dissolved isinglass for fining wines and other liquids. The solution likewise serves admirably for taking impressions of coins and medals, over the surface of which a very thin coating must be poured of the melted glue. This coating being left on the coin or medal during several days until it is liard, is then a tough, horny, transparent substance, bearing the impression in relief on one side, and in intaglio on the other. See Cement, Armenian. GLYCERIN is a sweet liquid obtained from oil and fat during the process of forming com- posite candles. It has been applied usefully to burns, and mixed with poultices to prevent their drying. It has been administered with success in some cases of deafness. GLYSTER. See Clyster. GNATS. These in temperate or cold climates, and musquitoes in hot climates, may be made to settle and cease from troubling by burning brown paper in the room, so that its smoke may be well diffused throughout the air. To prevent them biting, the hands and face may be moistened with a solution of tartaric acid in water, which must be allowed to dry on. To allay the itching arising from their bite apply sal volatile in spirit of hartshorn to the place. GODARD. This is the same as Ragout FiNANCiERE, only it serves to garnish a sirloin of beef. You then add pigeons gantiers and larded sweetbreads. Keep your sauce thin. GODBOLD'S VEGETABLE BALSAM. Steep \ oz. of garlic in half a pint of vinegar for three days; strain off the liquor clear, dis- solve in it 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and then add 1 drachm of tincture of tolu, and 3 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Mix well by shaking. GODFREY'S CORDIAL. Infuse lOozg. of sassafras, and seeds of caraway, coriander, and anise, of each 1 oz., in 6 pints of water; simmer the mixture until it is reduced to 4 pints, then add 6 lbs. of treacle, and boil the whole for a few minutes. When it is cold add 3 ozs. of the tincture of opium. This is anodyne and causing sleep, and is usually given to children troubled with wind or colic, but is too often given merely to quiet them. Its frequent use is destructive of the health and life of children. The dose is one- third of a tea-spoonful up to a tea-spoonful, according to the age of the child. GODFREY'S SMELLING SALTS. See Ammonia, Carbonate of. GODIVEAU. Take fillet of veal or breast of fowl or game, fresh pork or sausage meat, beef marrow or suet, equal quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms; season these articles with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in powder; pound all of them to- gether, and put in, one at a time, the yolks of eggs; pour in also a little water, pounding continually until it is reduced to a sort of paste; make a small ball of it, which boil in a little water to ascertain whether it is sufficiently salt. Sweet herbs may be added when you are about to use it. The godiveau is used as a farce for tourtes and hot pies. GODIVEAU, HOT PIE OF. Make a raised crust about five inches high, and of any size you may think proper, on the bottom of which lay some godiveau; over this place some mushrooms cooked in butter, two or three artichoke bottoms cut in pieces, and then lay some more godiveau formed into small sausages; cover the pie with the paste, dorez, and bake it. When done open it, and pour in any sauce which will correspond with the godiveau. GODIVEAU, TOURTE OF. Roll out some light paste, and cut it to the size of the dish you intend to use; spread over it a small quantity of godiveau, on which place a few mushrooms fried lightly and drained, and then some artichoke bottoms, each cut into four or six pieces. Roll some godiveau into balls of any size you think proper, and lay them on the above-mentioned articles so as to form a flatfish dome; cover well with the light paste, press the edges together, moisten the top, and lay an ornamental cover of puff paste ovei\ GOHOTE. Take a fillet of veal that will chop, and mince it finely; season it with salt, pepper, a little parsley, and an onion chopped finely; add about half a tea-cupful of bread crumbs, and a little fat of ham or pork ; if not the latter, some butter and two eggs. Mix all well with the hands, and make it into one large ball; sprinkle it with bread crumbs, and putGOO GOL [ 5G5 ] several pieces of butter about it. Bake it two hours. Make a good gravy with the scraps and bone, and serve with it. GOLD. {See Gilding). Gold is not affected by long exposure either to atmospheric air or water ; nor is it acted upon by sulphuric, nitric, or muriatic acid, whatever may be their states of dilution or concentration, its only solvent being nitro-muriatic acid, or chlorine. Its solution imparts a purple stain to the skin, and its oxide, when united with ammonia, possesses strong fulminating properties. It melts at 1300° of Fahrenheit, and when melted takes a bright green colour inclining to blue; but it may be kept in this state of fusion for any length of time without suffering any diminution either in its weight or its qualities. The most usual of its alloys is with copper. By this the density of the gold is diminished, and its hardness increased. The alloy employed for ordinary jewellery is a mi.K- tureof 761 grains of gold with 236 grains of copper. This tarnishes by exposure to the air, owing to the oxidising of the copper; but the original colour is restored by rubbing the tarnished article with spirit of hartshorn, or other ammoniacal solution. Copper is used to alloy our gold coin to harden it, and thus enable it to sustain the wear and tear incident to its circulation. One pound of copper is added to every twelve pounds of gold, and from twenty troy pounds of this alloy are coined 934 sove- reigns and one half-sovereign. The wear and tear lessen the value of the gold coin very slowly, for it was found that 100 sovereigns of 1817, after circulating seventeen years, bad diminished in value only 8s. lOd.; and 100 half-sovei'cigns, after the same time of service, 8s. 2d. Gold is found native in Peru, in Brazil, in Siberia, in North Carolina, in Hungary, and in several other paits of the world. It generally occurs in a metallic state, alloyed with a little silver or copper, and commonly in the form of grains. Most of the gold of commerce is at present brought to Europe from Africa, from the continent of America, but more largely from Australia and California. Thei'e is only one salt of this metal that is much known to chemists, viz., the chloride of gold, which is obtained in small crystals, and is very soluble in water. If ether be added to a solution of chloride of gold the gold will leave the acid, and float upon its surface combined with the ether. This ethereal solution has been used by Mr. Stodart and Mr. Savigny for defending their lancets and other surgical in- struments from injury by a damp atmosphere. It was formerly used in medicine under the name of potable gold. In those days of credulity it was generally prescribed to all patients who could furnish the apothecary with gold enough to make as much of the medicine as he should pronounce to be sufficient to insure a cui'e. Gold is spread over other metals in the process called gilding to preserve them from tarnishing or rusting, as gold does not be- come oxidised by exposure to atmospheric air. Leaf-gold, or the chippings of leaf gold, are ground with honey, and then put into muscle- shells : this they call gold in powder, or in the shell. This gold, so prepared, is used for painting in miniature. The purple oxide of gold is employed in staining glass, and for orna- menting porcelain. Gold is also used in a state of solution for staining ivory and orna- mental feathers. It gives a beautiful purple red which cannot be effaced : even marble may be stained with it. The nitro muriatic acid is the menstruum used for this purpose. The potters dissolve gold in this way to be applied to the common kind of porcelain. Bismuth or zinc will precipitate gold from this solution. Tin will precipitate it of a beautiful purple, called the purple precipitate of Cassius. This, also, is used by the potters in printing on porcelain. Sulphuret of potash will likewise dissolve gold.—[Johnson's Chemistry of the World.) GOLDBEATERS' SKIN is prepared from the inner membrane of part of the intestines of the ox. This membrane is washed over with a solution of isinglass, to which are added some spices, and finally the su'-face is varnished with white of egg. This renders it adhesive when moistened, and consequently useful for covering slight cuts. GOLDEN CORDIAL. To 1 gallon of brandy or other spirit add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1 drachm of the confection of alkermes, 1 drachm of the oil of cloves, and 1 oz. of spirit of saffron. Powder the sugar, and mix it in brandy; then put in the rest, and stir it all one way for a quarter of an hour. GOLDEN OINTMENT, SINGLETON'S. Melt together 3 ozs. of lard and 1 oz. of white wax ; then add ^ oz. of nitric oxide of mercury in very fine powder, stirring all the time, and until the mixture becomes partly solid. To be rubbed into the eyelids when inflamed, or when the eyeball is inflamed. It is a most valuable remedy. GOOSE: To Carve. To cut up a goose accord- ing to the ancient vocabulary of the art of carving is a process that requires great skill and more practice. Remove the apron in the direction a b c, pour into the body of the goose a glass of port wine, and a large spoonful of mustard previously mixed at the sideboard. Bring the neck end towards you, and cut the whole breast[ 566 ] GOO GOO in long slices in the line d e from one wing to the other, but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs also. In taking off the leg put the fork into the small end of the bone, press- ing it to the body, and having passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and if the goose is young the joint will separate with ease. To take otT the wing put the fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it closely; then insert the knife at d, and divide the joint by cutting down in the direction d e. When the leg and wing of one side are separated go to the other, if the company is so large as to require it. The best parts are the slices on the breast; the flesh of the wing divided from the pinion; the thigh bone, which may be separated easily from the drumstick, or bone of the leg ; the pinion ; and next the side bones. The sage and onion should be taken out from the body with a spoon at the place where the apron laid, and then mixed with the gravy, which must be poured into the goose before any person is served. Some people like the rump, and others give a preference to the carcass, as being juicy and savory. In a green goose the most delicate parts are the breast, and the gristle inamediately below it. GOOSE : To Choose. In choosing a goose, either wild or tame, observe whether the bill be yellowish, and the body has few hairs, in which case the bird is young; but if the bill and feet be red, and the body hairy, it is old. When new the feet will be limber, and when stale they are dry and stiff. GOOSE : To Maeikate. Cut a goose up the back, bone it, and make a stuffing with a few sage leaves, an onion or two, two apples, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, lemon-peel, nutmeg, and yolk of egg. Stuff it, sew it up the back, half roast or fry it, and stew it with good gravy (covered closely) till it is tender; put in a little red wine, and strain and skim the sauce; add Cayenne, catsup, a little flour, salt if necessary, and a little lemon juice. Boil this up for a minute or two, and then serve it over the goose. GOOSE : To Pot. Cut a fat goose down -the rump, and bone it; laj'- it quite open, season it well with the grating of three nutmegs, an equal weight of white pepper, and douhle the quantity of salt. Keep it in the seasoning two nights and one day, then roll it up tightly like collared beef, and bind it fast. Bake it till tender, let it lie in the liquor an hour, then take it out, and the next day place it in a pot with clarified butter over it. GOOSE: To Teuss. Having picked the goose clean, cut off the feet at the joint; next separate the pinions at the first Joint, and the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over. Loosen the liver and other entrails, and having opened the vent, draw them out except the soul. Wipe the inside clean with a cloth, and beat the breast bone flat with a rolling-pin. Put a skewer under each wing, and having drawn up the legs closely put a skewer into the middle of each, and pass the same quite through the body. Insert another skewer into the small of the leg, bring it close down to the side bone, run it through, and do the same to the other side. Next cut off the end of the vent, and make a cavity sufficiently large for the passage of the rump, in order to keep in the seasoning. GOOSE A LA BAYONNE. Take the legs and wings from as many half-roasted fat geese as you may think pi'oper, bone them, and when cold rub them with salt and saltpetre, and lay them regularly in a pan, with bay leaves, thyme, and sage between each layer; cover the pan closely, and let them lie thus twenty-four hours ; then take them out, dry, and finish cooking them over a slow fire in their own fat. When sufficiently done take them out, but keep the fat warm. As soon as the legs and wings are cold place them closely in a jar, leaving a space at the top of about three inches, which fill up with the warm fat. Do not tie the jar over until the whole is quite cold. GOOSE, BOILED., Take a goose, singe it, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk; let it lie in this all night, then take it out, and dry it well with a cloth. Cut into small pieces a large onion and some sage, put them into the goose, sew it up at the neck and vent, and hang it up by the legs till the next day; then put it into a pot of cold water, cover it closely, and let it boil gently for an hour. Serve with onion sauce. GOOSE EN DAUBE. This dish is seldom prepared but with an old goose, which, when singed and trussed, is larded with bacon, seasoned with parsley, scallions, shallots, garlic, sage, thyme, basil (all chopped small), pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Do up some roasted chest nuts with some butter and a little sugar; stuff your goose with this, put the bird into a pan, with slices of bacon under and over it, and moisten it with broth or water, and white wine. Put in also a knuckle of veal cut in pieces, fourr 567 J GOO GOO carrots, four onions (one stuck with three cloves), a parsnip, a bouquet garni,'Salt, pepper, and spices; let the whole stand over a small fire three or four hours, then take out the goose, skim the liquor, strain, and reduce it, so that when cold it may be quite a jelly, which clarify with the white of an egg, and dish the goose with this jelly over and round it. GOOSE GRASS. See Cleavees. GOOSE, GRAVY OF. Lay in a large saucepan some slices of onion, two slices of bacon, three or four beefsteaks, a goose, and a duck, cut up ; pour over these two quarts of boiling water, and close the saucepan as tightly as possible. Let it stand over a gentle fire for four or five hours, then open it, and put those pieces to the bottom which had previously lain at the top ; add a little pepper and salt, close the vessel again, and set it on hot ashes for an hour. At the end of that time have ready some stone jars, in which place the pieces of goose ; pour over a part of the liquor from them through a sieve, and, as the meat imbibes it, in about two hours pour in the remainder. If you wish this gravy to keep for two or three months cover the pieces of goose with their own dripping an inch in thickness. GOOSE GREASE is the fat of the goose melted and mixed with any fragrant oil that is preferred. It is an excellent application to chapped hands. Leather gloves should be put on after the application. GOOSE, GREEN, PIE. Bone two young green geese of a good size, carefully prepared and nicely singed ; wash them clean, and season them highly with salt, pepper, mace, and all- spice ; put on^inside the other, pressing them as closely together as possible, drawing the legs inwards; put plenty of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust as you please : if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit closely to keep in the steam. GOOSE, GREEN, ROASTED. After a green goose has been well trussed and singed put into the inside a good bit of butter mixed with pepper and salt; put it to roast, and baste it frequently with butter. When done shake over it some flour and salt; then take out the skewers, lay it on the dish with good gravy under it, and green sauce in a boat. It will take three quarters of an hour to roast. GOOSE, LEGS OF (en Puree). Take half a dozen good plump goose legs, and having boned them season them with salt and coarse pepper, and supply the places of the bones with bacon cut small; then close the meat over and tie them, taking care to shape them well. Put them into a stewpan lined with sliced bacon, and cover them witli the same; put into the pan also three carrots, four onions, two bay leaves. two cloves, a little thyme, and a ladleful of broth. Let the whole simmer for two hours, then take them out, drain, take off the thread, dish them, and serve with a puree of lentils, green peas, onions, &c. GOOSE, LEGS OF (A. la Remot.ads). Take the legs of a goose either roasted or a la dauhe, soak them in their own dripping, bread and baste them lightly with oil, broil them to a nice colour, and serve them diy with the follow- ing sauce in a boat:—Gapers, anchovies, parsley, scallions, garlic (all chopped very small), mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. GOOSE, LEGS OF (au Verd Pre). Put as many legs of geese as will fill a dish into a saucepan, with a little lard and some sipall onions; cover the saucepan quite close, and set it on the fire. When nearly done take out the legs, and broil them a few minutes to colour and dry them a little. In the meanwhile fry a handful of parsley (lieep it as green as possible), lay it over a dish, and serve the legs on it. GOOSEALALYONNAISE. Take three or four hind quarters of geese, and fry them lightly in their own fat; cut half a dozen large onions into rings, take a part of the fat in which you have fried the goose, and fry the onions ; drain both them and the legs, dish them with the onions laid on them, and serve with a good poivrade, or any other sauce you please. GOOSE A LA MODE. Take a large stubble goose, and when it is picked bone and slit it down the back. Take a fowl, and do it in the same manner; take, also, a neat's tongue, boil, and blanch it. Season the fowl with pepper, salt, and beaten mace, and roll it round the tongue, but first put some beef marrow over the tongue; then put the fowl into the goose, and sew it up. Before the fowl is put into the goose roll some thin slices of ham or bacon round it; put the goose into a small pot with two quarts of beef gravy, and the bones of the goose and fowl. When it begins to boil let it stew very gently for an hour; then take up the goose, skim all the fat from the gravy, strain it, and put in a glass of red wine, two spoonsful of catsup, a veal sweatbread parboiled and cut into slices, truffles, morels, mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, some yolks of eggs boiled hard, with a little pepper and sak; put in the goose, cover it closely, stew it half an hour longer, then take it up, put it in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Take care to skim off all the fat. GOOSE PIE, COMMON. Make a raised crust, quarter the goose, well season it, lay it into the crust, and put on the top I lb. of butter cut into pieces; put on the lid, and bake it gently. GOOSE PIE, RICH. Bone a goose and 4[ 508 ] GOO GOO fowl, aticl season them very well; put forcemeat into the fowl, and then put the fowl into the goose. Put these into a raised crust, and fill the corners with a little forcemeat; cut i lb. of butter into pieces, lay them on the top, put on the cover, and bake the pie well. Serve cold. GOOSE EN KAGObT. Break tlie breast bone of the goose, and make it quite flat. When it is skinned dip it in boiling water; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace beaten to powder ; lard and flour it all over. Take nearly 1 lb. of beef suet, put it into a stewpan, and when melted and boiling hot put in the goose. When it is brown all over add to it a quart of beef gravy boiling hot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole pepper, a few small onions, and a bay leaf; cover it closely, and let it stew gently. If it is a small goose an hour will be sufficient; if a large one it will take half an hour more. Make a ragout for it as follows ;^Cut some turnips, onions, and carrots as for a haricot of mutton, all boiled enough, and add half a pint of rich beef gravy; put them all into a stewpan, with some pepper, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour. Take the goose out of the stewpan when done, drain it well from the liquor it was stewed in, put it into a dish, and serve the ragout over it, GOOSE, ROASTED. A stubble goose should be stuffed with sage and onions chopped small, and mixed with pepper and salt. Boil the sage and onions in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few bread crumbs with them when chopped: either will render them less strong, put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer, A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising take off the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, as it will be spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve it with good gravy and apple sauce in boats. It will take about an hour and a half to roast. GOOSE, SAUCE FOR, Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper in a wine- glassful of claret or port wine ; pour it into the goose by a slit in the apron immediately before serving it up; or it may be j>ut with some thick melted butter or thick gravy into a boat, GOOSE, SAUCE FOR GREEN. To a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice add a glass of white wine, some scalded gooseberries, a little powdered sugar, and a small piece of butter'. Boil the whole together. GOOSE, SMOKED. Take a large stubble goose, remove all the fat, dry it thoroughly inside and out with a cloth, wash it all over with vinegar, and then rub it over with some common salt, saltpetre, and J lb. of coarse sugar. Rub the salt well in, and let it lie a fortnight; then drain it well, sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in the chimney to dry. It should hang for a month. GOOSE, STUFFING FOR. Chop about 2 ozs. of onion very finely, 1 oz. of green sage leaves, 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of a boiled egg, and a little pepper, to which may be added a minced apple. GOOSEBERRIES: To Bottle. When little more than half grown they must be gathered dry, and after being picked clean put into wide-mouthed bottles, shaking them gently down till each bottle is full. Cork the bottles tightly, set them in a moderate oven, and let them remain till heated through. Beat the .corks in tightly, cut off the tops, resin them over, and keep them in a dry, cool place. GOOSEBERRIES : To Preserve. Take the largest sort, and scald them without boiling; put them into a tub, and let them stand three days ; then having drained them, put them into a pan with water and a little syrup, and set them on the fire till warm; the next day strain off the liquor, put the fruit into an earthen pan, and pour thin syrup over it boiling hot. Repeat this daily for a week, thicken the syrup by degrees, and put the gooseberries into pots. GOOSEBERRY CHAMPAGNE. Take large fine gooseberries that are full grown, but not yet beginning to turn red, and pick ofl:' their tops and tails; then weigh the fruit, and allow a gallon of clear soft water to every 3 lbs. of gooseberries. Put them into a large clean tub, pour on a little of the water, pound and mash them thoroughly with a wooden beetle, add the remainder of the water, and give the whole a hard stirring. Cover the tub with a cloth, and let it stand four days, stirring it frequently and thoroughly to the bottom; then strain the liquid through a coarse linen cloth into another vessel, to each gallon of liquid add 4 lbs. of fine loaf sugar, and to every five gallons a quart of the best and clearest French brandy. Mix the whole well together, and put it into a clean cask that will just hold it, as it should be quite filled. Place the cask on its side in a cool, dry part of the cellar, and lay the bung loosely on the top. Secure the cask firmly in its place, so that it cannot by any chance be shaken or moved, as the least disturbance will injure the wine. Let it work for a fortnight or more, till the fermentation is quite over, and the hissing has ceased; then bottle it, driving in the corks tightly. Lay the bottles on their sides. In six months it will be fit for drinking, and it will be found as brisk as real champagne.GOU GOO [ 569 ] GOOSEBERRY, COMPOTE OF. Prepare some sugar to the sixth degree [grande plume), put the gooseberries into it to boil a moment, and let them cool before you skim them if for present use; if for keeping, refine the sugar still more by boiling. GOOSEBERRY CREAM. Boil one quart of gooseberries very quickly in as much water as will cover them, and stir in about ^ oz. of good butter. When they are soft pulp them through a sieve, sweeten the pulp while it is hot with sugar, and then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs. Serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. GOOSEBERRY CUSTARD. Boil three pints of gooseberries till tender, rub them through a sieve, and beat up with the pulp the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two, adding sugar to the taste, and two table-spoonsful of orange or rose-flower water. Wben mixed set it over the fire, stirring it continually till it is properly thickened, but not suffered to boil. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put a quart of green gooseberries into a stone jar, with some pounded sugar and a very little water, and place it on a stove, or in a pan over the fire. When the fruit is tender press it through a cullender or hair sieve with some more sugar, and let it stand till cold ; then beat up the yolk of an egg with sugar and grated nutmeg, stir the whole gently into a quart of boiled milk over a slow fire till it simmers, and then take it off; put in the fruit by degrees, and serve it when cold. GOOSEBERRY JAM. Pick out the seeds of full-grown, but not ripe gooseberries, put them into a pan of water, and afterwards on a sieve to drain; beat them in a marble mortar with their weight of sugar, and boil a quart to a mash in as much water; then squeeze it, and to every pint of liquor add 1 lb. of fine sugar. Continue to boil and skim the liquor, after which put in green gooseberries, and when the whole becomes thick and of a good colour take it off, and put the jam into glasses. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Boil a quart of gooseberries, red or green, but not over-ripe, in as much water till they mash; then drain all the juice through a sieve or jelly bag, and having boiled up very high as much common syrup as there is of juice, mix the whole, and keep on boiling together for about ten minutes, skimming it all the time. GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Take full-grown red gooseberries, cut them in two, and pick out the seeds; get ready a pint of currant juice, and boil the fruit in it till tender ; put ] ^ lb. of double-refined sugar into a pan, with as much •water as will dissolve it, and boil it till thick ; then put the whole together, and make it scald- ing hot without boiling. After this proceed as in other pastes. GOOSEBERRY PIE. Line your dish with a nice puff paste, lay in your gooseberries, sweeten them well, put on the cover, and finish the same as all other pies. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Stew your fruit over a slow fire till tender, and then pulp it through a hair sieve ; beat up five or six eggs, strain them to about a quart of the pulp when cold, and mix up both with crumbs of bread or Naples biscuits, plenty of sugar, a little grated orange or lemon-peel, and nutmeg, with some rose or orange-flower water. Line the dish with paste, pour in the fruit, then lay a rim of crust round the edge, and bake it moderately. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. Take two hands- ful of half-ripe gooseberries, open them, and take out the seeds ; blanch them in a little salt and water, and drain them; put two spoonsful of veloute and the same of butter sauce into a saucepan, mix them well together, and heat them; throw in the gooseberries, stir them well, and season the sauce according to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. This sauce is eaten with boiled mackerel. Fennel may be added or not at pleasure. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. Bruise some gooseberries that are quite ripe, and to three quarts of water put one quart of gooseberries in a large tub ; let them remain sixty hours, stir- ring them frequently ; then strain them through a hair bag, and to every gallon of the liquor add 1 lb. of coarse sugar; stir it well together ; put it into a barrel and a toast and yeast ; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, and let it stand nine or ten months. The greater the quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar. GOOSEBERRY WINE. To 4 lbs. of gooseberries take 1 \ lb. of sugar and a quart of spring water. Bruise the berries, and let them lie twenty-four hours in water, stirring them frequently; then press out the liquor, and add the sugar to it, after which put it into a clean cask, and when the fermentation 1ms ceased close it up, and let it stand a month ; then rack it off into another cask, and let it stand five or six weeks longer. On bottling it off put a lump of sugar into every bottle. GOUFFRES. Cut i lb. of blanched almonds into very small fillets; put them into a basin, with 4 ozs. of sugar in powder, half a table- spoonful of fine flour, the rasped zesi of a lemon, two whole eggs and one yolk, and a little salt. Mix the whole softly together, not to break the almonds ; butter an oven pan of eighteen inches long, and twelve broad; put in the gouffre, and spread it equally with the blade of a large knife ; then with a fork arrange the almonds equally; strew over with fine fillets ofGOU GOU [ 570 ] pistachios ; put it into a moderate oven, and let it take a fine yellow tint on both sides. If the top is sufBciently coloured Lefore the bottom, cover the top with papers till the other has attained its colour, as the colour must be equal. Take them out the moment they are ready, as half a minute more will make them brittle, and will render it impossible to give them a fine form; and if not done enough they will not preserve their form, and will be disagreeable by sticking to the teeth. When they are done enough cut them in lengths two inches broad, and then into two inches square or oblong; set the pan in the mouth of the oven, have a small roller of four or five feet long, place them on the roller, and give them a half-circular form. It takes one very quick or two hands to this operation, as the gouffre soon changes colour. It is, there- fore, better to put one half into the oven before the other, which gives time to manage it. GOULARD'S EXTRACT, or Goulahd's Water, is a weak solution of acetate of lead It is sold by all chemists. It may always be formed when required, if some of the crystals of acetate of lead are kept in the house, as we shall presently direct. The use of acetate of lead has been revived in Paris in pulmonary hemorrhage and in dysentery, often combined with opium. The dose is half a grain or a grain eveiy two or three hours till it succeeds, or its continuance becomes unsafe. It forms, however, a very valuable external application in super- ficial and phlegmonio inflammations, bruises, and diseases of the skin. It is always applied in solution, either simply, or by means of cloths soaked in it, or mixed with bread crumb. A drachm, with 5 ozs. of any distilled water, forms a strong solution, and with 10 ozs. of water a weak solution. If common water be used the addition of about a drachm of acetic acid will be necessary to keep the lead in solution. GOURDS : To Faece. Open a little bit at the top, scoop out a little of it, put it in a piece of butter mixed with mace and salt; put in the top, and set it in the oven. Have a nice ragout of any kind ready; take off the top, mix the butter with the pulp, and if there is not room enough take out a spoonful or two, put in the ragout, and cover it with the top, or garnish it with an appropriate garnishing. Dish it up on fried parsley or on a napkin. Take care that the skin in cutting-is not split: it should be gone cai'efully round with a blunt knife. A paste border may be laid round and turned in; or it may be baked, and then cut open and mixed with cream, sugar, and cinnamon. GOURDS : To Preserve. Hang them in the roof of a chamber where there is occasionally a fire, and they wiU keep a long time. GOUT is a painful disease arising without any evident external cause, but for the most part preceded by an unusual aiTection of the stomach. There is also some degree of fever, with pain in the joints, particularly in those of the great toes, which affects the motion of the feet and hands, returning at intervals, and often alternating with affections of the stomach or other internal parts. The only disorder for which gout can possibly be mistaken is rheumatism, and cases may occur where there might be some difficulty in making a just discrimination; but the most certain way of distinguishing them will be to give due consideration to the predisposition in the habit, the symptoms which have preceded, the parts affected, the returns of the disease, and its connection with the other parts of the system—circumstances usually different in the two diseases. In gout the pains generally attack the small joints, and are at the same time less inclined to shift; but when they do they usually seize^ the corresponding limb or some of the viscera ; the parts are redder, and more swollen than in rheumatism ; and the symptoms of in- digestion, which rarely precede rheumatism, are present in a considerable degree for some days previously to the attack of the gout. Rheuma- tism and gout are, however, sometimes com-' binea. In these cases it is neither necessary nor possible to discriminate between the two. The attacks of the latter are chiefly in the spring of the year and the beginning of winter, and the disease seldom appears at an earlier period of life than fx'om thirty-five to^ forty. Where, however, the contrary is the case, it may be supposed to arise in general from an hereditary predisposition, &c. It for the most part attacks men, and such as live well or lead sedentary lives, or are addicted to literary pursuits; those who keep late hours, or who are in the decline of life. It is, nevertheless, met with in females of a full and robust habit of body. Men whose em- ployment requires constant bodily labour, or who live much upon vegetable food, as well as those who use wine and other fermented liquors very sparingly, are not often afflicted with, the gout. The causes which lay the foundation of gout may be enumerated as follows, viz., into those which induce a plethoric state of the body, and those which occasion weakness of the body in general, or of the stomach in particular. Among the latter may be considered intemperance of every kind, late hours, intense study, long want of rest, much grief or anxiety of mind, great sensuality, long-continued fatigue, exposure to cold, particularly by getting wet in the feet, using too freely acidulated liquor, sudden change from a full to a spare diet, excessive evacua- tions, violent passions of the mind, &c.GOU GOU [ 571 ] Full diet of animal food, ragouts, rich and highly seasoned sauces, with a free use of spi- rituous and fermented liquors, particularly of wines abounding with tartar, together with in- dolence and inactivity, are the causes which give rise to corpulency and a full habit of body. Hence, then, the frequency of gout among the higher orders of people. It is the opinion of modem physicians most generally entertained, that gout proceeds from an accumulation of humours in the relaxed vessels of the ligaments and tendons of the joints; but concerning the nature of those humours different opinions are entertained, A paroxysm or fit of the regular gout some- times comes on suddenly without any warning; at other times it is preceded by an unusual coldness of the feet and legs, a suppression of perspiration in them, and numbness, or by a sense of pricking along the lower extremities ; the appetite falls off, and the stomach is troubled with wind and indigestion; a degree of lassi- tude, listlessness, and fatigue is felt over the whole body; the bowels are costive, and the urine is of a pale colour. On the night of the attack the patient goes to bed perhaps in tolera- ble health, and after a few hours is awakened with the severity of the pain, which has affected either the joint of the great toe, the heel, calf of the leg, or probably the whole of the foot • these symptoms increase in violence, and are succeeded by rigours and feverishness, with throbbing of the affected part. Both feet not unfrequently become swollen and inflamed, so that the patient can place neither of them upon the ground ; nor can the least motion be en- dured without suffering the most excruciating torments. Towards the morning he falls asleep, and a gentle sweat breaking out terminates the paroxysm—a number of which constitute what is termed " a fit of the gout "—the duration of which will be longer or shorter according to the proneness of the body to disease, the season of the year, and the age and strength of the patient. Notwithstanding there may be an alleviation of pain at the expiration of some hours after the paroxysm has commenced, still the patient is not entirely relieved from it, and for some even- ings successively both pain and fever return, which continue until the morning with more or less violence. These paroxysms, however, in time prove milder every day, till at length the disease goes off either by perspiration, an in- creased flow of urine, or some other evacuation, the affected parts becoming itchy, the scarf skin falling off in scales, and some degree of lame- ness remaining. During the course and progress of the com- plaint various parts of the body are affected, and it shifts from one limb or joint to another By repeated attacks the joints lose their strength and flexibility, and become so stiff as to be deprived of motion, &c. In some cases the entire system becomes weak and languid, in- digestion and fainting come on, and the disease at last terminates in palsy, asthma, or dropsy, the latter appearing most commonly in the form of water in the chest. The gout takes on the appearance of many diseases, and resembles them so closely that, by being mistaken for them and treated im- properly, it is often diverted from its regular course, to the great danger of life. For this reason, those who have had the gout ought to pay particular attention to whatever may happen to take place about the time that they have cause to expect a return of it. To render the recun-ence of the gouty paroxysms less frequent, as well as the attacks less severe, more is to be effected by tem- perance in diet, cheerfulness and serenity of mind, moderate exertion of the mental faculties, retiring early to rest, removing costiveness as occasion may require, and by regular and mode- rate exercise, than by any other means what- ever, as well as their being attended with greater safety. Exercise in persons disposed to gout strengthens the system and prevents plethora, and in the beginning of the disease it will often prevent an attack which otherwise might have taken place. When abstinence from animal food is requisite a diet consisting of milk and farinaceous seeds will be the most proper, and all kinds of spirits and fermented liquors are to be avoided. Where any swelling and stiffness of the parts remain after the paroxysms of the gout have subsided, benefit may be derived from galvanism or electricity, with friction by means of the flesh-brush. The acidity which usually prevails in the stomach and intestines is best corrected by taking a little magnesia once or twice a day. Opiates are sometimes resorted to, to allay the pain; but it should be borne in mind that when these are given at the commencement of the paroxysms, or when the inflammation runs high, a return is often induced with more violence. It is a fact that, notwithstanding the many and often contradictory remedies that have been prescribed for gout, not one which has hitherto been offered for the benefit of the gouty world possesses any remedial power; and all that can be done with safety to the patient is to lead him through the paroxysm, after it has once commenced, by abstaining from the causes previously enumerated ; by recommending tem- perance, regular and moderate exercise, absti- nence froni acescent food, strong liquors, asGOU GRA r 572 ] the only means to prevent severe and frequent attacks. In short, temperance and moderate exercise are the most likely to prevent severe and frequent attacks of this most formidable, nay, this invincible disorder. Where costiveness prevails during a paroxysm of the gout, but particularly at its commence- ment, it may be removed by a solution of Epsom salts in peppermint water, or by rhubarb (10 or 15 grains) combined with 1 or 2 grains of calomel. In gouty affections medicines which promote a gentle perspiration are frequently of service ; e.g., take antimonial powder, 8 grains; subcar- bonate of ammonia, ^ drachm. Make four boluses with a sufficient quantity of the con- fection of roses, one of which may be taken every three or four hours, and assisted by the use of diluent liquors and temperate warmth. As a gentle aperient when required the fol- lowing will be serviceable ;—Take magnesia, ] drachm; powdered rhubarb, 10 grains; com- pound powder of cinnamon, 5 grains. Mix for a powder, to be taken as occasion may require. When the gout attacks a part where there is already an accumulation of chalk, from pre- ceding, long-continued, and nervous attacks, and that part is highly inflamed, the best appli- cation will be an emollient poultice, previously fomenting with flannels wrung out of a strong decoction of poppy heads made warm. In the ii'regular gout, where no inflammation of the joints is present, although the gouty inflamma- tion prevails in the system, but the stomach at the same time is affected with indigestion, flatulency, acrid eructations, and pain, the patient ought not only to avoid all debilitating causes, but should employ proper means for strengthening his system in general, and his stomach in particular. The first object may be attained by a proper quantity of plain nutritious animal food, and a moderate allowance of wine ; the second by means of aromatics, the Peruvian bark, &c. Take infusion of calumba root, 8 ozs.; compound tincture of Peruvian bark, and compound tnicture of cardamoms, of each 1 oz. Two large or table-spoonsful of this mix- ture may be taken twice a day. There is a remedy at present very much cried up in gouty attacks, which in many cases has alleviated the paroxysms, viz., the' eaii, medici- nale de Hiisson (the medicinal water of Husson), although in some cases it has produced alarm- ing effects, such as fainting, cold sweats, e.x- treme prostration of strength, excessive evacua- tions from the stomach and bowels, &c. These consequences, however, have only ensued when an over-dose has been taken. This remedy consists of some vegetable, of a bitter, nauseous taste, infused in Spanish wine, with an addition of the tincture of opium. It is supposed by some to be white hellebore ; by others, hedge hyssop ; and by others, again, to be meadow saffron. A preparation called the wine of the meadow saffron, given in the quantity of a fluid drachm twice a day in any vehicle, has been found a valuable remedy in both gout and rheumatism ; but to render the medicine more certain and efficacious the bowels should be particularly attended to, the patient at the same time abstaining from all food of a flatulent nature. The following is an admirable, and in many cases efficient, form of giving the meadow saf- fron, viz.:—Take liquor of acetated ammonia (formerly Mindererus' spirit), 1 oz. ; wine of meadow saffron, 1| drachm black drop, 8 drops; camphor mixture, 2 ozs. ; syrup of saff"i-on, 3 drachms. Make a mixture, and let the patient take a table-spoonful at bedtime, re- peating the dose the next night if necessary. GOUT AND RHEUMATISM, REY- NOLDS'S SPECIFIC FOR. {See Eait Medi- ciNALE DE Husson.) It is a similar preparation of colchicum. GOWLAND'S LOTION. Take of blanched bitter almonds 1 oz., and blanched sweet almonds J oz.; beat to a paste, add pure water 1 pint, mix well, strain through a piece of coarse muslin, put it into a bottle, add corrosive sublimate in powder 10 to 12 grains, dissolved in a tea-spoonful or two of spirit of wine, and shake well. Used as a cosmetic to improve the complexion, and also as a wash for obstinate eruptions. For the latter purpose the quantity of corrosive sublimate may be doubled ; but the weight given above should not be exceeded when the lotion is intended for a cosujetic. As a beautifier of the complexion it is employed by wetting the skin with it, either by means of the corner of a napkin, or the fingers dipped into it, and it is then gently wiped off with a dry cloth, GRAFTING STOCKINGS. Hold the parts to be joined between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand in the same manner as work for sewing is held, with the loops exactly opposite one to another, and the wrong sides outwards. Pass the needle, pointed fromyour chest, through the two loops which lie opposite to each other on each piece, and draw the thread through them ; then point the needle towards your chest, and, taking up the next loop on the farther piece, pass it a second time through the loop that is next to you , then take up a fresh loop on this side—that is, on the side next to you—and pass the needle again through the former, and pro- ceed this way, taking up a fresh loop on each side alternately, until the grafting is finished. GRANADINS OF DUCK. Cut off the[ 573 ] GRA GEA •\sings of a duck, so as to bring away all the breast; flatten them gently, then take off the skin, and lard the meat. Take out the bones from the leg, and fill it with forcemeat; put the hones of the duck and any trimmings of other poultry into a stewpan, with two or three onions, sweet herbs, mace, bay leaves, and slices of carrot; pour thereon a pint of gravy, and then put in some fat bacon over the bones, with the wings and legs. Set the pan on a slow fire, and when done put turnips in the dish with the duck. GRANADINS, VEAL. Split the noix and flatten it, cut each in two or three pieces in the shape of long lozenges, and cut one piece round ; lard them, put them in a stewpan that will hold them, with the parings of the veal and two carrots, and half an onion under each granadin (they must not touch one another); add parsley, scallions, and a clove and a half of garlic. Make the whole boil over a brisk fu'e ; cover with buttered paper; set them to simmer, and put some very hot coals over to make them take a very fine colour. Cook from forty to fifty minutes. Reduce, glaze, and dish them over any sauce or puree, with the round in the middle so as to form a rose. GRANNY STRONG'S CAKE. Take 4 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of butter, 2 lbs. of sugar, twenty- seven eggs, 3 lbs. of currants, a pint of wine, and a gill of brandy. Spice as you please. GRAPE, COMPOTE OF. Boil ^Ib. of sugar with half a glass of water till it is reduced to a strong syrup, skim, and then put into it 1 lb. of grapes picked from the stalks, aiad the seeds taken out; give them a boil two or three times, and then place them in a dessert dish. If there is any scum on thom carefully wipe it off with white paper. GRAPE JELLY. Take out the stones, and mash the grapes, which must be ripe, with your hands ; then squeeze them through a cloth to extract all the juice from them, boil, and finish the same as Currant Jelly. Use i lb. of sugar to each pound of fruit. GRAPE, RIPE, WINE (1). Grape wine, of course, stands first in regard to quality and character of all domestic wines, and if a com- plete fermentation has been regularly conducted from a correct standard of specific gravity, a wine not inferior to foreign will be obtained, especially when the grape is not spared, and the season is pi'opitious. For making this wine in a plentiful year 15 lbs. of grapes to each gallon of water are used, but 20 lbs. would be preferable. The grapes, after being picked from the stalks, are slightly broken with the hand. When carefully pressed the water which we mean to use is well mixed in with the fruit so bruised, a sample is taken to be examined by the saccharoraeter, the gravity noted, and the tub covered. The next morning they are again well agitated and mixed, and a second sample taken, weighed, and noted, when an increase of gravity will be shown. These operations are performed morning and evening until it is found that the gravity is less than at the last examination. This decrease assures us that the extraction has been completed, and nothing now remains but to draw off the liquor 'from the husks, which is accordingly done, a3 they can no longer communicate anything desirable or advantageous to the wine. The fruit being pressed and the liquor drawn off, the husks are then washed in as much water as is found necessary to deprive them of any good which may yet remain in them. This liquor is then strained from them, and added to the former. The whole quantity is now measured, a portion of which is weighed by the sac- charometer in order to direct the operator in proportioning the sugar. In consequence of the coldness of this climate, even grapes, ripe grapes, are deficient in sugar, and necessarily require a portion of this article itself to supply the want. The higher the gravity of the juice and water is before putting in the sugar, the less sugar will it require for a complete fer- mentation. After the gravity of the juice and water is found, the proportion of sugar necessary to bring the must up to the standard gravity of 120° will easily be ascertained. This fruit in a dry, warm year, when perfectly ripe, and the vine grown in a favourable situation, will produce, in the pure juice, a gravity of 95°. By adding the same portion of water as pure juice the gravity of 75° will be reduced to 38°. By using two-thirds of pure juice and one-third of water the original gravity of 75° will be reduced to 50° instead of 38°, leaving then a deficiency of 70°, which must be made up by sugar. As 1 lb. of sugar dissolved in a gallon of water is equal to 36°, therefore, to supply the deficiency of 70°, 2 lbs. of sugar to each gallon of juice and water will be required, and this will raise the gravity from 50° to 122°. When this wine is intended to be a dry wine it is reduced at its lowest gravity to 15° or 20°; when intended to be a sweet wine, to 30° or 35°. Care should be taken to examine and note the gravity at least once a week until the cask is bunged. Racking is necessary in this wine, as well as in all others ; but it should not be performed until fermentation has in a great measure subsided, unless it should be too violent, when the racking is necessary to give an effectual check. The cask must be slightly sulphured, and the deficiency from the loss of lees made up from the fine of the small cask. If the wine has been reduced to 15° 1 lb. of sugar candy isGRA GRA [ 574 J put into the cask, which is then bunged up, and allowed to stand for fifteen months before being bottled. Two years in the wood, instead of fifteen months, greatly improve grape wine. In this case, however, it is necessary to examine it every six months, and make up any deficiency of quantity by adding spirit, and a small portion of water and sugar. GRAPE, RIPE, WINE (2). This is the method practised by the Hon. Charles Hamilton:— " The first year I attempted to make red wine in the usual way by treading the grapes; then letting them ferment in a vat till all the husks and impurities formed a thick crust on the top, the boiling ceased, and the clear wine was drawn from the bottom. "This essay did not answer; the wine was so very harsh and austere that I despaired of ever making red wine fit to drink; but through the harshness I perceived a flavour something like that of some French white wines, which made me hope I should succeed better with white wines. That experiment succeeded far beyond my most sanguine expectations, for the first year I made white wine it nearly resembled the flavour of Champagne, and in two or three years more, as the wines grew stronger, to my great amazement my wine had a finer flavour than the best Champagne I ever tasted; the first running was as clear as spirits, the second running was ceil de perdrix, and both of them sparkled and creamed in the glass like Cham- pagne. It would be endless to mention how many good judges of wine were deceived by my wine, and thought it superior to the best Champagne they ever drank: even the Duke de Mire Paix preferred it to any other wine; but such is the prejudice of most people to any thing of English growth, that I generally found it prudent not to declare where it grew till after they had passed their verdict upon it. The surest proof which I can give of its excellence is, that I sold it to wine merchants for fifty guineas a hogshead; and one wine merchant, to whom I sold £500 worth at one time, assured me that he sold some of the best of it at from 7s. 6d. to 10s. 6d. per bottle. After many years' experience the best method I found of making and managing it was this :—I let the grapes hang till they'had got all the maturity which the season would give them; then they were carefully cut off with a pair of scissors, and brought home to the wine barn in small quantities, to prevent their heating or pressing one another ; then they were all picked off the stalks, and all the mouldy or green ones were discarded before they were put in the press, where they were all pressed in a few hours after they were gathered. Much would run from them before the press squeezed them, from their own weight upon one another. This run- ning was as clear as water, and sweet as syrup, and all this of the first pressing and part of the second continued white; the other pressings grew reddish, and were not mixed with the best. As fast as the wine ran from the press into a large receiver it was put into hogsheads, and closely bunged up. In a few hours one could hear the fermentation begin, which would soon burst the casks if not guarded against by hooping them strongly with iron, and securing them in strong wooden frames, and the heads with wedges. In the height of the fermenta- tion I have frequently seen the wine oozing through the pores of the staves. These hogs- heads were left all the depth of the winter in a cool barn, to reap the benefit of the frosts. When the fermentation was over, which was easily discovered by the cessation of the noise and oozing, but, to be more certain, by pegging the cask, when it would run quite clear, then it was racked off into clean hogsheads, and carried to the vaults before any warmth of weather could raise a second fermentation. In March the hogsheads were examined, and if any were not quite fine they were fined down with common fish glue in the usual manner. Those that were fine of themselves were not fined down, and all were bottled about the end of March, and in about six weeks more they would be in perfect order for drinking, and would be in their prime for above one year; but the second year the flavour and sweetness would abate, and would gradually decline until, at last, it lost all flavour and sweetness; and some that I kept sixteen years became so like old Hock that it might pass for such to one who was not a perfect connoisseur. The only art I ever used to it was putting 3 lbs. of sugar candy to some of the hogsheads when the wine was first turned from the press, in order to conform to a rage that prevailed to drink nothing but very sweet Cham- pagne. I am convinced much good wine might be made in many parts of the south of England. Many parts are south of Painshill; many soils may be fitter for it, and many situations must be so, for mine was much exposed to the south- west wind (the worst of all for vines), and the declivity was rather too steep ; yet, with these disadvantages, it succeeded for many years. Indeed, the uncei-taiuty of our climate is against it, and many fine crops have been spoiled by May frosts and bad summers ; but a good year balances many disappointments." GRAPE, UNRIPE, WINE. " It has been fully proved that a compound and artificial must can be fabricated from due mixtures of sugar with the extractive matter and saline substances of fruits, capable of undergoing aGRA [ 575 ] G RA regular fermentation, of forming good and per- fect wine. " The case ig as applicable to the grape as to the gooseberry. Long ago experiments were made in France by several chemists with green grapes and sugar with complete success. I have repeated these experiments and varied them with the best effects. The produce is varied with the management, and the results of the trials have been wines resembling Cham- pagne, Grave, Rhenish, and Moselle, and of qualities so perfect, that the best judges and wine-tasters have not been able to distinguish them from foreign wines. The grapes may be used in any state, however immature. When even but half grown and perfectly hard they succeed completely. It is evident that wines made on this principle will be more expensive than when made from ripe grapes, as a sufBcient quantity of sugar must be used to compensate for the deficiency of the natural sugar of the grape; but even then they are no more costly than currant or gooseberry wines, while at the same time their superiority is beyond all com- parison. The hardest grapes will produce a wine of the strength of white Hermitage with a proportion of 3 lbs. of sugar to the gallon, and the expense will be trifling compared to the value of the produce. It might be supposed that these wines would necessarily be devoid of flavour; but this is by no means the case, since all the specimens which were made under my direction were characterised by flavours as genuine and decided as those of foreign wines to which they proximated. I have little doubt that under due management on a large scale, as well as with sufiicient age, wines of the Hock quality could equally well be produced here in the same way. Many trials must yet be made before we can hope to appreciate the extent of our resources in this manufacture. "It is more than probable that difl"erent grapes, even in this immature state, would pro- duce different wines ; but these trials must be left to the efforts of individuals, and to the necessarily slow progress of experiment. With regard to the management, it must be founded on the operations followed in wine countries. It is, in the first place, obvious that the grapes should be suffered, from motives of economy, to remain on the vine while there is any hope of gaining an accession either of strength or sweetness. They should then be carefully sepa- rated from the stems, those which are mouldy or rotten being at the same time rejected. Some judgment will be required in proportioning the fruit to the water in the first instance, and to the sugar in the second. I have said before that the grape, when ripe, consists of sugar combined with vegetable extractive matter, or the fermenting principle and certain salts, be- sides the astringent and flavouring matter. As the colour is not developed in the immature grape it need not be noticed here; but the proportions of these ingredients vary materially according to the state of maturity. As a great part of saline and other constituents of the grape appears to be converted into sugar during the progress of maturation, it is plain that, weight for weight, there will be more of the principles contained in the immature than in the mature fruit. To form, therefore, a must of such a quality as shall resemble the natural must of ripe fruit, it is necessary that water should be added to the immature juice for the purpose of diluting, and thus diminishing the proportions of those saline matters which would otherwise confer on the wine a degree of harsh- ness difficult to overcome. As it is impossible to give positive rules to meet the infinitely vary- ing and undefinable degree of maturity in which the grapes must often be used, and as such rules would, in fact, but tend to mislead, I shall content myself with laying down some general principles, leaving the application to the ingenuity and observation of the operator. If the object be to produce a wine Champagne, or the white wines of Bordeaux, a small propor- tion of crude grape will be required. Grapes barely half grown require, for the production of wines of this class, to be used in the proportion of equality to water. If they are more grown the proportion may be increased; if less, it may be diminished. If the intention be to make a wine resembling Hock, the proportion of grapes must be materially increased, and the wine, at first hai'sh, will by a few years' residence in the cask, undergo that amelioration which time alone can give. To the proportions which I have described varying quantities of sugar may be applied. " A proportion of 2 lbs. in a gallon of mix- ture will yield a very light wine, and of no great durability, resembling, under the proper treatment, the inferior classes of Champagne wines, and under a different mode a wine re- sembling Barsac and the lighter of the Bor- deaux wines. An increase of sugar to 3 lbs. will yield a wine equal in strength to the best sorts of champagne, or, if fermented to dryness, to the strongness of the white wines of Bor- deaux. Larger doses of sugar will doubtless yield wines of different qualities; but of such proportions I cannot speak from experience. I may only caution the operator who shall under- take these trials that larger quantities of sugar require larger proportions of fruit, if it be his intention to work the wine to dryness, as the quantity of fruit above mentioned is barely suf- ficient to convert the proportion of 3 lbs. above[ 576 ] GRA GRA named. With regard to the durability of these wines I may add that 1 have kept them for seven years, and during all that time with evident improvement. I should consider them to be as little liable to destruction as foreign wines of the very best fabric. While on the subject of sugar I may also say that the general cause of failure in those wines which are made in this country from ripe grapes is the defi- ciency of sugar, and that even these would be much improved by an addition of it. It is owing to this deficiency that these wines are perishable, and easily converted into vinegar, the natural must being too aqueous to produce a durable wine. The proportion of sugar need not be larger in these cases ; but, as before re- marked, no positive rules can be given for it, since it must vary with the maturity and saccha- rine quality of the fruit, circumstances which differ almost every season. Two modes of management may be adopted with regard to the fruit, either subjecting the skins to fermentation or not. In the first case a greater degree of austerity will be the result, and the wine will consequently vary in its quality. If the object be to make a wine resembling Champagne the skins may be operated on previously to the fermentation. If this manufacture be con- ducted on a large scale the result of a second pressing may be reserved to make a distinct wine ; if on a small one it may either be mixed with the first or rejected altogether. But let me again inculcate that the wine is not made when the ingredients have been introduced into the vessel; it is then that the labour begins, and nothing but care and attention to every part and every minute circumstance of the subsequent processes can insure satisfaction, and produce valuable results. To such uses may the immature fruit of the vine be converted, but the capacities of that plant are not even yet exhausted. Situations may be found in this country where the vine may not produce even immature fruit, yet still it can be directed to the end of wine-making. Chemical examination has proved that the young shoots, the tendrils, and the leaves of vines, possess properties and substances exactly similar to the crude fruit. It was no unnatural conclusion that they might equally be used for the purpose of making wine. Experiments were accordingly instituted in France with this view, and they have been repeated here with success. ^ From vine leaves, water, and sugar, wines have thus been produced in no respect different from the produce of the immature fruit, and consequently resembling wines of foreign growth. The few experiments which I have tried have been eminently suc- cessful. No further rules can be given respect- ing the management of the leaves in addition to those I have laid down for the treatment of unripe fruit. Similar proportions and similar management will in both cases produce similar effects. The leaves, however, scarcely yielding anything to the press, require to be infused in the water some days before they are subjected to fermentation, and they seem to yield their soluble part most readily to boiling water with- out any material alteration in the result." GRAPES, COMPOTE OF SOUR. Take the seeds from 4 lbs. of sour grapes, and throw them into cold water; put some water on the fire, and as soon as it boils put in the grapes. When they rise take them from the fire, and cover them with a cloth till cold; then let them simmer over a slow fire, taking care that they do not boil. When they are green drain them from the water. In the meantime clarify and boil 2 lbs. of sugar to lisse, then put in the grapes, and, having boiled them together a little while, take it off, and skim it. When cold drain away the sugar, and put the fruit into a compotier; boil the sugar once or twice more, skim, and pour it over the verjuice. GRAPES, CONSERVE OF. Grain lib. of muscadine grapes, boil them a moment, and sift them through a sieve; reduce the juice over the fire to a quarter part of what was sifted; put to it 1 lb. of sugar prepared to casse, and let it boil a little; then work it well to- gether till it begins to grow white, warm the whole a moment, and then pour it into paper cases made for the purpose. When it is cool cut it into cakes of what size you please. GRAPES, GREEN: To Preserve. Take the largest and best grapes before they are ripe, stone, and scald them ; let them lie two days in the water they were scalded in, then drain them, put them into a thin syrup, and heat them over a slow fire. The next day turn the grapes into a pan, and heat them the day after; then drain them, put them into clarified sugar, give them a good boil, skim them, and set them by. The next day boil more sugar to souffle, put it to the grapes, give them all a good boil, skim them, and set them in a warm stove all night. The day after drain the grapes, and lay them out to dry, first dusting them veiy well. END OF VOL. I.■ H1^