547 DEPRESSED FRACTURE OF SKULL. merely notched, whilst the inner one is splintered along the whole line of blow. In other cases, again, a portion of the skull is completely sliced oil', hanging down in a flap of the scalp, and exposing the brain or its membranes. A special and ’^■ery important kind of punctured and depressed fracture is that in which, by the thrust of a stick, mnbrclla, or other blunt-ended body into the orbit, the orbital plate of the frontal bone, or the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid, is perforated, and the dura mater or brain wounded. In such cases there is sometimes no external wound, the stick ha^dng passed up under the upper eyelid ; and it is conceivable that the same result might even be produced by a thrust up the nostril. Death results either from wound of the cavernous sinus and intracranial extravasation of blood, or more remotely from the secondary inflammatory effects of the wound of the dura mater and brain. It is very important to observe that the inner table may be very extensively fissured, fractured, and depressed, uitliout any fracture of the outer table. The accompanying cuts taken from photographs of a preparation in the Ai’my Fig. 245.—E.'cternal Table Slightly Depressed. Fig. 246. Internal Table Depressed and Fissured. Medical Museum, Washington, represent a case of extensive fr-actm-e with epressiono the inner table of the left parietal bone fr-om gunshot -without fi-actm-e of the external table. The patient was struck obliquely on the side of the head by a musket-ball vluch inflicted a scalp-wound. There was no sign of cerebral disturbance 11 wo ays after the injury, when symptoms of compression set in. The ^uU was carefully examined through the wound for fr-acture ; none could be loimcf ibe symptoms of coma increased and proved fatal on the tenth dav i 'inrWl ^ left parietal bone was found extensively starred I ‘ epressed (big. 246), ivithout any fr-actiu-e of the outer table (Fio-. 2451 ture ” “ punctured fr-ac- I; fractnro Jlh case demonstrates clearly the possibihty of extensive h depression of the inner table, whilst the outer remains unbroken. i! N N 2