-3° GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. carried completely aeross the limb, detached from the soft parts, and lodged near the aperture of cxit.^ The secondary splinters are those which are still attached by a strip of periosteum or fibrous tissue ; and the icriiary are those portions of bone which, from the \ioleiice done to them, often necrose and separate at a subsequent period. The treatment of these different kinds of splinters must necessarily vary. The primary, which are already completely detached and are incapable of consolidation, must be treated as foreign bodies and extracted. The secondary, if very loose, must also be removed; but, if more firmly fixed, they may be pushed into the axis of the injured bone and left, when they may become consolidated by callus, and so serve in the recon- struction of the bone. The tertiary, which do not separate until about six or seven weeks, must be removed as soon as possible ; if they become engaged in a mass of callus, it may be a considerable time before they are loose enough to be removed ; and, until then, sinuses leading down to them will remain open even for years. The reunion of comminuted gun-shot fractiues may be assisted by the resection of the fractm-ed ends of the bones, in appropriate cases. This plan has been especially successful in the bones of the upper extremities. The ends thus resected may ftuthermore be kept in apposition by metallic sutures, according to the plan suggested by Howard, of the American army. In those cases in which small shot are lodged under the skin, they may be tinned out by being cut doivn to with a fine scalpel. The Treatment of the Wound itself must be conducted on ordinary surgical principles. As has afready been stated, there wiU, as a ride, be idolent inflammation and sloughing along the whole track of the baU ; although instances have been recorded of primary imion in gun-shot wounds uncompheated with fractine or the lodgment of foreign bodies. The principal points to be attended to are, consequently, to limit the unflammation, to watch and facilitate the separation of the sloughs, and to pay scrupulous attention to cleanliness. By adopting in suitable cases, and under cfrcumstances where the requisite time and attention can be spared, the antiseptic method, both inflammatory action and the formation of sloughs may be avoided. Under this treatment, repair of giui-shot fractiu-e without suppuration or sloughing has in at least one instance been reported. In any case, no harm can accrue if the flrst dressing be conducted after that plan; if suppmation then ensue, it may stiU be treated by the usual methods -without detriment to the patient, who ■wUl have had the chance given him of escaping the sufferings and exhaustion attendant on the healing of an extensive woiuid by the second intention. In order to limit the inflammation, it was a common practice -ndth military Sm’geons, and still is so with the French, to enlarge by incision the wound made by the ball, ivith a idew of preventing tension and strangulation of jiarts. Since the time, however, when John Hunter pointed out that an incision could not alter the natme of a contused wound, and only superadded another injiiiy to the one afready inflicted by the bullet, British Surgeons have employed the knife, in the early stages of giui-shot wounds, only for the purpose of facilitat- ing the securing of bleeding vessels, or the extraction of foreign bodies. In