CONTENTS. xvni EPITHELIOMA-Situation and Progress- Structurc-Diagnosis-Prognosis-Trcat- mcnt Excision—Ligature—Ecrascur—Caustics—Eccurrence—Adenoid Causer, or Colmnnai* Epithelioma • . . . . 810 m 7 Excision OF Tumours .... .... ~ • * • • • • .ol/—'oli) Chapter XXXV.—Scroeula aj«d Tubercle. SCROPULA-Definition-Scrofulous Diathesis-Scrofulous Temperament—Strumous Inflammation—Of Skin—Mucous Membranes—Bones and Joints—Glandular Organs Tubercle—Structure—Progress.—Causes oe Scrofula and Tu- bercle Hereditary Nature—Inoculability of Tubercle—Malnutrition—Debility from Disease.—Treatment—Preventive—Curative—Local Treatment—Opera- tions IN Scrofulous and Tuberculous Cases .... S20- Chapter XXXVI.—Venereal Diseases. Definition .iAnd Classification *531 Local Contagious Ulcer or Chancre —Characters —Specific Nature—Origin and Progress—Varieties—Simple or Soft—Phagedamic—Sloughing Chancre, or Gangrenous Phagedmna—Situation of Chancre—Diagnosis—Local Treatment of Chancre—Of Phagedmnic Chancre—Of Sloughing Chancre—Constitutional Treat- ment of Simple Chancre—Of Phagedamic Chancre—Of Gangi-enous or Sloughing Chancre.—Consecutive Symptoms of the Local Contagious Ulcer—Con- tracted Cicatrices—Bubo—Primary Bubo—Creeping Bubo—Treatment—Venereal Warts 831—8111 Syphilis, or Constitutional Venereal Disease — Characters — Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary—Transmissibility—Progress—Indiu-ated or Hunterian Chancre—Seat and Number—Induration—Indolent Enlargement of Lymphatic Glands—Treatment—Use of Mercury—Mode of Administering Mercury . 843—853 Secondary, Tertiary, or Constitutional Manifestations of Syphilis— Phenomena —• Circumstances Influencing Progress — Treatment — Mercury.— Local Secondary Affections-Syphilitic Affections of the Skin—Warts, Excrescences, and Vegetations—Syphilis of Mucous Membranes—Sypliilitic Iritis—Syphilitic Periostitis in Nodes—Diseases of the Bones—Syphilitic Necrosis and Caries—Syphilitic Tumours of Muscles and Tendons—Syphilitic Disease of Testicle—Syphilitic Ovaritis — Visceral Syphilis—Syphilitic Disease of the Nervous System . . 853—873 Infantile Syphilis—Nature—Mode of Communication—Symptoms—Influence on Teeth—Chronic Interstitial Keratitis—Treatment 873—878 Chapter XXXVII.—Surgical Diseases of the Skin and its Appendages. Diseases of the Appendages of the Skin—Warts—Corns—Perforating Ulcer of the Foot—Diseases of the Nails—Onychia—Simifie—Specific—Ingrowing of the Nads—Hypertrophy of Toe-Nail 879—882 Tumours and Ulcers of the Skin—Cheloid and Eibro-Vascular Tumom-s—Lupus ' —Vai-ieties—Lupus Non-exedens—Lupus Exedens—Microscopic Structure—Dia- gnosis—Treatment—Rodent Ulcer — Symptoms—Diagnosis—Pathology—Treat- xnent—Cancer of the Skin—Melanotic Sarcoma—Scirrhous Wart—Infiltrated Cancer—Cancerous Ulcer—Treatment 882—892 Chapter XXXVIII.—Diseases of the Nervous System. Neuritis—Symptoms—Treatment Neuralgia—Symp)toms—Situations—Causes—Diagnosis — Treatment — Section of Nerves—Facial Neuralgia—Traumatic Neuralgia—Stretching of Nerves . 893—8!)9