3- GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. wound, provided that the thread do not lie aloin? its whole line. A nan-ow .strip ol water-dressing should then be applied along the edge of the incision ihefu-st dressings need not be changed until about the third day after the ■operation, unless they become loose or have been too tightly applied, when they may be snijiped across. If the sutimes do not interfere uith the <3scape of the discharges, and do not produce undue in-itation or excessive traction, they may be left in for a few days longer. In amputations, especially ill cachectic subjects, they may frequently be left undisturbed for six or ei<^ht ■days, with much advantage, ' “ If union do not take place by adhesive mflammation, and suppuration have commenced, with much tension and heat about the part, the substitution of a poultice for the water-di-essing be advantageous. When suppm-ation has fairly set in, the appheations should be changed at least twice or thrice in the twenty-four hoiu’S, and the woiuid may with advantage be washed out twice a<lay with injections of carbolised water. The neglect of this precaution often giies lise to much iiritation, and retards the healing process by the accumula- tion of discharges in and around the wound. Care shoidd also be taken that there is a free escape for the pus, which may sometimes be pent up by the too uarly cohesion of the edges, without a coiTesponding agglutination of the deeper .surfaces of the wound. As granidations siting up, it may become necessary to substitute astringent dressings for the emollient ones ; and the parts must be weU supported by bandages, especially hi amputations, and in all cases where there is a tendency to bagging of matter. The Constitutional After-treatment of operations demands as much •attention on the part of the Surgeon as the management of the wound itself. Immediately after the operation, and before the effects of the amesthetic have passed off, the patient should be comfortably arranged in bed, with the clothes supported by a cradle, or other contrivance, away from the part implicated, an opiate should then be administered, or a little vine and water if there be faintness, and the patient kept as quiet as possible. With regard to the Diet after the oim-ation, this must depend entirely on the patient’s constitutional powers, his previous habits, his age, and upon the severity of the operation. But, as a general rule, it may be stated that, as an operation is a shock to the system, the constitutional powers require to be maintained after its performance. This is more particidarly the case, if the mutilation be severe, or the subsequent suppmation abundant. If the patient’s strength be good, not having been broken by previous disease or suffering, and if the operation be a slight one, as the amputation of a finger, or the removal of a small tumour, he may have half his usual diet allowed for a few days, but >vith little, if any, stimulants. If the operation have been more severe, but not capital, no solids shoidd be allowed, but broths and noiuishing liquids alone given for the first few days. If the operation have been a capital one, the patient’s health and strength being otherwise good, he may be restricted to fm-inaceous slops and beef-tea until suppuration has come on ; indeed, up to this time, the febrile reaction will usually prevent the patient from taking solids. Some light pudding may then be added ; and the diet may, as the case progi’esses, be gradually improved by the successive addition of fish and the lighter kinds of meat, ivith a moderate quantity of stimulants, as required,.