FRACTURE OF NECK OF THIGH-BONE. Ar'21 simple, the bone being merely broken across ; or impacted, the lower portion of bone being driven into the upper fragment. . , • • ^ This intraeapsular fracture may almost be looked upon as a special injury of advanced life, being but seldom met noth in persons under fifty. Thus Sir A. Cooper states that, of 251 cases with which he met in the coimse of his practice, only two were in persons below this age. It may, however, happen at an early period of life : Stanley has recorded the case of a lad of eighteen, Avho met with this injury, and Hamilton has described it as occurring in a girl aged sixteen and in a man aged twenty-five. A remarkable circumstance in connection with this accident is, that it commonly happens from very slight degTecs of violence, indeed almost spontaneously. Thus, the jarring of the fiiot in missing a step in going do'wnstairs, catching the toes under the carpet, tripping upon a stone, or entangling the foot in turning in bed, are sufficient to occasion it. It is especially in women that this injiuy is met with. Cause.—The occurrence of this fr-actme in old age is owing indirectly to the changes in structure, shape, and position of the head and neck of the femur with advancing years. The cancellous structure of these parts becomes ex- panded, the cells large, loose, and loaded with fluid fat. The compact structure becomes thinned, and proportionately weakened, especially about the middle and imder jiart of the neck, which, appearing to yield to the weight of the body, is shortened; and, instead of being oblique in its direction, becomes horizontal, inserted nearly at a right angle into the shaft. In consequence of these changes in structure and position, it becomes less able to bear any sudden shock by Avhich the weight of the body is thi-own upon it, and snaps under the influence of very shght degrees of violence. "When it breaks, the capsule may remain uninjiu’ed, but the prolongation of it which invests the neck of the bone is usually torn through. In some cases, however, this cer'S’ical reflection is not ruptured, the lower portion of it especially often remaining for some length of time untorn, at last, however, giving way under the influence of the mo^'ements of the limb, or by being softened by local inflammatory action. As the violence occasioning the fracture is generally but shght, and as the vas- cularity of this portion of the bone is trifling in old people, there is but little extravasation of blood. The fr-agments are almost always so separated that the fr-actured siu’faces are not in apposition : the upper end of the lower fragment is drawn above and to the outer side of the head of the bone, and at the same time is twisted so that its broken surface looks forwards. The head remains in the acetabulum, attached by the ligamentmn teres, and sometimes preserving a connection with the lower fragment, through the mediimi of some untorn portions of the fibrous membrane iuA'esting the neck. E,. W. Smith has observed, that in some instances the two fragments become interlocked or dovetailed as it were into one another, in consequence of the line of fracture being iiTegular and dentated. Signs.—These are, alteration in the shape of the hip, crepitus and pain at the seat of injuiy, and inability to move the limb, with shortening and eversion of it. fl'hesc we must consider separately, as important modifications of each are sometimes noticed.