INJURIES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 329 In such a case as this, it would be clearly out of the question to lay open the sac, and to search for the injured vessel in the midst of the aponeurotic and tendinous structures of the hand. It would consequently be necessary, either to tie the radial and ulnar arteries immediately above the wist, or to ligature ' the brachial in the middle of the arm. The latter plan should be prefeived ; as, were the first mode of treatment put into practice, the sac might continue to lie fed by the interosseous artery, as happened in a case of Roux’s, in which the patient died of htemorrhage from the palmar aneurism after the ligature of both arteries of the fore-ax’m. In the case represented (Fig. 131), Liston successfully ligatured the brachial in the mid-arm, after compression upon it had failed to effect a cure. VESSELS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fkmoral Autery.—The htemorrhage from the Femoral Artery, Com- mon, Superficial, or Deep, when wounded is always very profuse. In all cases, ligature of the Avoimded vessel at the seat of injury should, if possible, be practised. If a Diffused Traumatic Aneurism have already formed, the artery shoidd be commanded by a tommiquet, as it passes over the brim of the pelvis, the sac laid open, and the bleeding vessel sought for and tied. Guthrie has col-, lected a great number of cases, which prove incontestably that the general principles of treatment in wounded arteries must not be departed from, when the arteries of the groin or thigh are wounded. On the contrary, the facility wth which in most cases the circulation is kept up, and the readiness with which secondary hEemorrhage comes on as a consequence of the free anastomoses in this situation, render the rule of practice of applying a ligature on each side of the wound in the vessel peculiarly stringent in all recent arterial wounds in this part of the body. Secondary htemorrhage and gangrene of the limb are the gi-eat sources of danger here. "When gangrene is imminent, or has come on, amputation is necessarily the sole resource. With regard to secondary hasmoirhage supervening after ligatime of the artery at the seat of injury, there is, I think, no safe course but removal of the limb. lATiere the artery has been tied higher up, as, for instance, when the external iliac has been ligatured for recent wounds or traumatic aneurisms in the groin or upper part of the thigh, the hjemoirhage appears to have returned, or gangrene to have supervened in all the cases. This fact was remarkably illustrated in the Crimean Wai\ Thus, Macleod states that the French in one hospital at Constantinople ligatured the femoral at a distance from the wound for secondary haemorrhage seven times, an,d that all the cases failed. If the traumatic aneurism have assumed a drcumscriied character, it must be treated on the principles laid dowi for this form of the disease, the supply- ing artery being ligatured above the tumour ; and cases are not wanting in proof of the success of this practice. It occasionally, though rarely, happens that a Varicose Aneurism is formed in the p-oin or upper part of the thigh, as the result of wound of the artery and vein in this situation. It usually presents the ordinary chai'acters of this isease, but some peculiarities have occasionally been met with. Thus, in a case related by Horner, there was a wavy motion in the femoral \cm on the