TREATMENT OF ASPHYXIA FROM DROWNING. 617 air, by compressing the chest and abdomen, so as to expel the vitiated air, and then allowing them to recover their usual dimensions by the natui-al resiliency of their parietes. A small quantity of air vdll, in this way, be sucked in each time the chest is allowed to expand, and thus the re-establishment of the natural process of respiration may bo much hastened. This simple mode of restoring the vital actions should never be omitted, as it is not attended with the least danger, and does not in any way interfere vdth the other measures employed. Marshall Hall has recommended that the patient be turned prone, so that the tongue may hang forwards, and the larynx thus be opened ; and that respiration be then set up by gentle jiressure along the back, and by tiuTiing the patient on his side at regular intervals. It, by these moans, we succeed in restoring the proper action of the respiratory movements, it will merely be necessary to pay attention to the after-treatment. Should we, however, fail in restoring respiration, we should have recourse to other and more active measines. In the more severe cases of asphyxia, warmth should be applied by means of a hot-air bath, by which not only the natinal temperatme of the body may be re-established, but the blood in the capillaries of the surface be decarbonised. The most direct and efficient means, however, that we possess for the re-estab- lishment of the circulation in these cases is certainly Artificial Respiration. In this way alone the pulmonary artery and the capillaries of the lungs can be unloaded of the blood that has stagnated in them, and the left side and substance of the heart will be directly and rapidly supplied with red blood. The whole value of artificial respiration depends, however, upon the way in which it is employed. Inflation is not very effectual from the mouth of an assistant into the nostrils or mouth of the sufferer, as air once respired is not well fitted for the resuscitation of the few sparks of life that may be left, but it is in many instances the readiest and indeed the only mode by which resphation can be set up, especially if water or other fluids have found their wny into the mouth. The bellows, if properly constructed for artificial inflation, so that the Cjuantity of air injected may be measured, are no doubt very useful; and if furnished with Leroy’s trachea-pipes, or what is better, with nostril tubes, may be safely employed. About fifteen cubic inches of air may be introduced at each stroke of the bellows, and these should be worked ten or a dozen times in a minute. The lungs should be emptied by compression of the chest before beginning to inflate, and, alter each inflation, by compressing the chest and abdomen ; but care must also be taken not to employ much force, lest the air-cells be ruptured. Richardson has devised a pocket-bellows for artificial respiration, consisting of two elastic hand-bellows with a single tube for intro- duction into the nostril. A safe, and at the same time a very efficient mode of introducing pure air into the lungs, is, by the elastic expansion of the walls of the chest. This may be effected in various ways; either by means of the split sheet, as recommended by Leroy and Dalrymple (Rig. 258), or else by alternately compressing the chest and abdomen with the hand, and then remoHng the pressure so as to allow the thorax to expand by the natural resiliency of its parietes, and thus, each time it expands, to allow a certain quantity of air to be sucked into the bronchi. The method recommended by