NjEVUS. 940 means of rcmo^•al; and although the part included may be of large size, the resultmg^cicatrix is wonderfully small and nan-ow, usually becoming horizontal, so as to fall into the folds of skin naturally existing in that situation. In the case of a little girl about three years of age, brought to me some years ago by berber, I remo^-ed a iirevus that was cutaneous as well as subcutaneous, and as large as a walnut, from this situation, by means of the quadruple ligature, with the most satisfactory result, the resulting cicatrix being remarkably small; and in another little girl, from the bridge of whose nose I removed, some years ago, a najvus as large as a marble, very little scan-ing or deformity resulted. In both these cases, the ncevus was cutaneous as well' as subcuta- neous. If the skin be not affected, injection of perchloride of iron may be advantageously employed in such cases. When the tip and ala3 of the nose' are affected, the ntevus being cutaneous, we can seldom do much to improve the appearance of the patient. In such cases, I have tried breaking down the ntevus, and the galvanic cautery, Awthout any material benefit; the destruc- tion of the tissues soon afterwards leading to deformity. When the ntevus is subcutaneous, occupying the tip, alse, and columna nasi, injection with per- chloride of iron is the only means that I have foimd of real service. In doing this, care must be taken not to throw in too much of the liquid, lest slough- ing or sudden death result. MTaevi of the Cheeks may occur in three distinct forms. 1. There may be a simple cutaneous nsevus, a mere staining of the skin, a “ mother’s mark.” This admits of no treatment; and the subject of it must submit to continue through life to exhibit the characteristic discoloration. 2. The elevated cutaneous na3vus may be raised above the surface, being of a deep purphsh red or plum colom*, and covered with a veiy thin integument. In this form of the disease, I think that the application of concentrated nitric acid is the best moans of extiiq)ation. By one or tAvo fr’ee applications of the caustic, the growth is removed, and a dense white cicatrix, presenting httle disfigm’e- ment, is left in its place. 3. The ntevus may iuA'olve the whole thickness of the cheek, being scarcely, if at ah, cutaneous. Naevi of this kind cannot, of coiu’se, be extirpated, either by the knife, ligatiu’e, or caustics, lest the cheek be perforated, and the most serious disfigimement ensue. In such cases Ave must endeaA'om.’ to obliterate the structure of the naevus by exciting infiamma- tion in it by setons, or by breaking doAvn the structm’e of the gTowth with cataract-needles or a fine tenotome. In a case Avhich I attended some years ago, Avith Bartlett of Notting Hill, a large and deeply seated ntevus, Avhich occupied one cheek, was cimed by haAdng a number of fine silk threads passed across it in different directions, and then being gradually, piece by piece, broken doAvn Avith a cataract-needle; no disfigurement whateA'er being left. WseAri of the Lips require different treatment, according as they occupy the margin or have involved the whole substance of these parts. II'hen seated at the margin, as projecting and someAA'hat pendulous growths, they may A'ery readily be removed by a double or quadruple ligatiu'e, according to their size. This Avas the practice pursued in the case fr’om Avhich the accompanying draAV- ings (Figs. 338, 339) Avere taken, where a most excellent result was obtained by the use of the ligatiu’c, folloAvcd at a later period by injection of perchloride