TUMOURS. 730 CHAPTER XXXIY. TUMOURS* The frequency with whidi Tumours fall under the observation of the Surgeon, the great variety in their characters, and their important relations, local as weU as constitutional, render their consideration one of great moment. According to Hunter, a tumour is “ a circumscribed substance produced by disease, and different in its nature and consistence from the surrounding parts.” This defi- nition, though not perhaps accinately comet in some forms of tiunom-, which do not differ in their uatm-e from neighbom-ing parts, is yet chnically con- venient. By a tumoiu’ may also be meant a more or less circumscribed mass, grovdng in some tissue or organ of the body, and dependent on a morbid excess of, or deviation from, the nutrition of the part. These growths may therefore be considered mider the two heads of local hypertrophies, or outgrowths of the normal structure of the part; and of new formations, presenting structural characters which differ more or less widely from those of the parts aroimd. The tumour thus formed increases m size by an inherent force of its own, imspectively of the growth of the rest of the system, but still obeys the same laws of growth which govern the body generally. In order to constitute a tumour, it is necessary that the normal form of the part be mdely departed from; a mere increase in its size, so long as it preserves its usual shape, being scarcely considered in this light. Thus if the tibia be uniformly enlarged to double its natm’al size, the enlargement is a hypertrophy ; but if a comparatively small rounded mass of bone project directly forwards fr’om its tuberosity, it is said to be a tumom and not a mere hypertrophy. Classification of Tuaioues.—A classification of tumours maybe founded either upon their anatomical structure, or upon their vital and clinical characters ; and although these two systems may occasionally lead to a some- what similar grouping of individual growths, yet one knowledge is at present too imperfect to enable us to point out in every case the connection between clinical history and histological structm-e. Smgeons have long divided tumoiu-s into two great classes—the Won-malignant and the Malignant. This division, however, though practically convenient, is not scientifically exact. Although some tumours, as the cancers, are always and essentially malignant, and othei’s as uniformly benign, as lipomata and some cysts, yet many others that are Tlie most exliaustive treatise on this subject is Vii'ohow’s great work, “Die Kraukliaften Gesclinnilste " hniiin-,, wiiiist ill Ilia “ Uellular Pathology ” will be I'ound an exiiosition of his yiey s or (the Pathology of Tumours), whilst iu his ... , the (levelopiiieut of new formations. The reader will lind in Paget s classiciil Lectures on Singital logy ” the best account in the English language of the clinical characters He may also consult with advantage Rindlleisch's “Histological Pathology (translated for the by Dr. Baxter), Billroth's “ Surgical Pathology " (American Edition), and the Manuel d Histologie patiio logifiue,” by Cornil and Ranvier, vol. i. I am under much obligation to uiy Inenu, . kindness iu having undei'taken the illustration of this chapter with a senes of drawings 1 luiiv (American Edition), - ,■ I am under much obligation to my friend, Sir. Godlee, lor Ins ^ ,tion of this cliapter with a series of drawings taken Ironi nature, which are alike admirabio for their Udelity and their artistic merit.