480 SPEC I A L DISLOGA TIONS. two cases only of it; several cases have occuitccI at University College Hospital, which were reduced without difficulty. Diagnosis. Dislocations of the huurerus may readily be diagnosed from fractures of the ttnaiomical and surgical neclc of the bone, by the existence of the signs which arc common to all luxations, and by the absence of crepitus. In fractures in this situation, also, the glenoid cavity always continues to be occu- pied by the head of the bone. The existence of crepitus, and of slight shortening but little alteration in the axis of the limb, and no correspondence between this and the position of its head, are additional signs of value in establishing the diagnosis. The nature of the accident that occasions the injury is often an important element in the diagnosis. Fractures of the upper end of the humerus can only occur from direct violence applied to the shoulder. Dislocations, on the other hand, are almost invariably the result of indirect violence applied to the hand or elbow. Hence the injiuy resulting from a fall or blow on the shoulder itself is almost always a fracture ; that fr’om a faU on the hand or blow on the elbow a dislocation of the humerus. Paralysis of the deltoid from a hloio or from injury of the circumflex rierve may simulate a dislocation, the shoulder being flattened and the acromion projecting : but here the mobility of the .joint, and the presence of the head of the bone in the glenoid cavity, estabhsh the absence of dislocation. The Reduction of a dislocated humerus may be conducted on three different plans :—ly the heel in the axilla ; hy the hiee; or hj draiving the arm upwards. Whichever plan is adopted the patient should, if strung, be put imder the in- fluence of chloroform ; when his muscles are paralysed by this agent but little force is required to effect the reduction, the Surgeon s imaidcd strength usrrally sufficing for this piu’pose. If more power, however, should be required than he carr exercise, extension may be made by assistarrts drurving rrpon a touel pro^rerly fixed romrd the lower end of the hrrmerus, or else by the prrlleys attached to the same part of the limb. _ _ . • i 1 1. The reductiorr of the dislocatiorr hy the heel in the axilla, is certain y t c