6o AMPUTATIONS. by Bristowe and Holmes_ show that in 18G1 the amputation death-rate in iaiisian hospitals was 3 in 5, and moi’e recently Le Fort gives the mortality at 58 per cent. In Germany matters were not much better. Billroth’s pub- lished amputation-mortality has been from 43 to 4G per cent. In the United States the death-rate is much smaller, however ; the mortality in the Pennsyl- ■\ania Hospital being only about 24 per cent., and that of the Massachusetts General Hospital 26 per cent. In military pi’actice, the result of the experience deduced from the mor- tality following amputations dining the great modem wars is at least equally nntavoinable. But here there are so many modifying and distinbing elements, that it may be well to exclude these cases from consideration. In fact, then, on taking the average mortality after amputation of aU foin limbs in the largest hospitals in the great centres of civilisation, we come to this result, that it commonly varied fi-om GO to 35 per cent., and did not fall beloAv 24 per cent. ; and that in certain of the larger amputations, as in the upper third of the thigh and at the hip-joint, it ran up to from 70 to 90 per cent. Widely extended statistical returns have shown but too plainly that these figin-es are trustworthy and constant, when founded on sufficient num- bers and carried over a sufficient length of time to eliminate the mfluence of accidental circumstances operating for or against the patient. So constantly do these figmes come out in hospital retmns, that Surgeons had almost come to regard them as representing the necessary, or, so to speak, the natural rate of mortality after amputations. But is this so in reality ? Is this frightful rate of mortality the necessary result of the opera- tion, and thus beyond our control ? oi- is it dependent on causes that are preventable, and that may in great part, if not wholly, be removed ? That it is not necessary—that it is dependent on preventable causes and will eventually be more materially diminished is eiddent from the admirable results that have of late years been obtained by Callender, Lister, Spence, and others, by different methods of treatment, but all ha'ving in view attention to the hygienic condi- tions of the woimd and of the patient. Up to a recent period, Sm’geons have had no opportimity of obtaiuing a knoAvledge of the results of amputations on a large scale, except such as have been furnished by the statistical results obtained from hospitals. It was not until Sir James Simpson collected a large mass of statistics from small country hospitals—fi’om private practice in manufactiu’ing and mining districts espe- cially, where amputations are of common occmrence—that the important fact has been most incontestably and satisfactorily proved, that the high rate of mortahty above given is not by any means the necessary and luiavoidable result of amputation, but that it arises fi'om causes independent of and beyond the operation itself ; that, in fact, it is greatly dependent on the con- ditions to Avhich the patient is exposed after its performanee. Simpson collected the particulars of 2,098 amputations of all kinds ocemTing in country and prfrate practice in tornis ; of these 229 died, or 1 in 9.2; Avhilst of an almost equal number, viz., 2,089 amputations, performed in the large city hospitals of Great Britain, 855 died, or 1 in 2.4. It is quite possible that Simpson’s figmes are not absolutely but only approximately coiTect, aud that certain soiu’ces of fallacy ham intruded them-