TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURE. 363 of Taris bandage is of great service in enabling tlie patient to get np sooner than could otherwise be done. Ill all cases of simple fracture of the lower extremities, the sooner the patient is o-ot np and about on crutches the better. Some patients speedily learn to use these instrimients, others never get accustomed to their use. In the latter case, a wheel-chair should be substituted for them. Surgical Treatment of Simple Fracture.—In conducting the treatment of a fracture, the object of the Surgeon should be not only to obtain a sound and strong limb, but one that presents as little deformity and trace of fomer injury as possible. lu order to accomplish this, the broken ends of the bone must be brought into as perfect apposition as possible, the recurrence of dis- placement must be prevented, and the local and constitutional condition of the patient properly attended to. AVhen the Siu-geon is called to a person who has met with a fractui’e, if it be a sei'erc one of the upper extremity, or of any kind of the lower limbs, he must see that the bed, on -which the patient may have to remain for some weeks, is property prepared, by being made hard, flat, and Ann, and, if possible, covered with a horse-hair mattress. The Singeon must then superintend the removal of the patient’s clothes, having them ripped along the seams, so that they may be taken off with as little distinbance as possible to the injured part. He next proceeds to the examination of the broken limb, using ei'ery possible gentleness consistent uith acquiring a proper knowledge of the fracture. After he has satisfied himself upon this point, the limb should be laid upon a soft pillow, until any necessary apparatus has been prepared. Reduction.—When all has been got ready, the reduction of the fractin-e, or the bringing the fragments mto proper apposition, must be proceeded with. This should, if possible, always be done at once, not only lest any displacement that exists may continue permanently—the muscles, after a few days, becoming shortened, rigid, and unyielding, not allowing reduction to be effected -without the employment of much force—but also with the view of preventing imtation and mischief to the hmb, by the projection of the sharp and jagged ends of bone into the soft structmes. A gveat deal of time is sometimes lost, and much unnecessaiy pain inflicted upon the patient, and great imtation set up in the limb, by the Siu’geon leaving the fracture imreduced on a pillow for several days, and applying evaporating lotions to take do-v^nl the sweUiiig and avert the thi'eatened inflammation, ivhich are consequences of the non-reduction of the broken bone. The application of cold lotions, irrigation, &c., in compound or even in simple fr’actures is decidedly injurious. It lowers the Autality of the part, retards union, and occasions oedema. By early reduction -we may some- times prevent a shaiq) firagment from perforating the skin, and thus rendering a simple fracture compound, or lacerating muscles and nen'es, inducing perhaps traumatic delirium and certainly undue local inflammatory and spasmodic action. The chief cause of displacement in fractures has already been stated to be muscular contraction ; hence, in effecting reduction of a fracture and in removing the displacement, our principal difficulty is the action of the muscles of the part. This must and always may be counteracted, by properly relaxing them by position ; so soon as this is done, the bony fragments will naturally fall into place ; but no amount of extension and of counter-extension can bring