SYMPT02IS OF DISSECTION-WOUNDS. 251 The milder form proceeds from the simple in-itation of a scratch in a broken constitution, or from the mocnlation of non-specific putrescent matter. The pnnctnred part becomes painful, hot, and throbbing, in from twelve to twenty-fonr hours after the injury; the finger swells and inflames, the absorbents of the aim are perhaps affected, and the glands in the axilla become enlarged. There is general febrile distiu-banee, ushered in by rigors and a feeling of depression and often intense headache ; suppuration takes place about the pnnetm-e, and also, perhaps, in the inflamed glands, the case presenting the ordinaiy characters of ivhitlow with inflammation of the absorbents. In the more severe form of dissection-woimd, the patient is seized, about twelve or eighteen hom's after the pimctme, with rigors, anxiety of counte- nance, and depression of the nervous system; with a quick pulse, and with inflammatory febrile reaction. On examining the finger, a pustule, or vesicle, with an inflamed areola, vdll be observed in the situation of the puncture; from this a few red lines may be seen extending up towards the arm-pit, where there may be swelling and tension. Diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue of the limb sets in about the fifth or sixth day, extending up to the shoulder, and doivn the side of the chest to the flank. Abscesses foim, often with much pain, in these situations; they are usually somewhat diffuse, the pus being mixed inth shreds and sloughs. The general symptoms gradually assume an asthenic type; the tongue becomes brown, sordes accumulate about the lips and gums, low delu’ium sets in with a rapid feeble pulse, and death occurs in from ten days to three weeks. When incisions are made into the brawny tissue, it is found infiltrated with sero-pus, and in a sloughy state. If the patient live, large chcumscribed abscesses form under the pectoral muscles, in the axilla, and above the clavicle, accompanied by much exhaustion and depression of the system. The convalescenee is tedious and prolonged, and the constitution is often shattered for life. It is this form of the disease that resembles diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue arising fr-om other causes ; and indeed there can be httle doubt that It is a cellular erysipelas dependent on toxic agency. That this form of dissection-wound is of a truly specific character, is evident fr-om the fact that patients labom-ing under it may communicate fatal erysipelas to their nurses and attendants ; as happened in the case of the late J. P. Potter, of Unh eisity CoUege Hospital, whose early death was much to be lamented. It IS also this kind of dissection-wound that is especially apt to occur after punctmes, received fr-om patients who have died of diffuse infianmiation of the sej-ous membranes. e s^ptoms jwoduced by contact, independently of any wound, with the JO les 0 peraons who have died of erysipelatous or ijyaemic diseases, some- imes vaiy, though still referable to the introduetion of a j)oison. Thus I ave ’noun a body to infect seriously in different ways six students who were ^ mi suppm-ation of the areolar tissue, under the pectorals linri + / of maniacal delirium ; a fom-th TUEATMENT.-On the receipt of a punctm-e in dissection, or in makiim- a