4S6 SPECIAL FRACTURES. there was a deep hollow below this. The os calcis was apparently turned somewhat towards the inner side of the foot. Tlic solo was arched, the skin much An-inkled, and the great toe forcibly flexed. There was a deep transverse furrow in front of the ankle-joint. On discovering the nature of the accident, and seeing the hopelessness of reduction, or rather the impossibi- lity of maintaining the displaced frag-ment in position, I cut down upon it by enlarging the opening through which it showed itself, and then, seizing it with strong bone-forceps, twisted it out, dividing tlie ligamentous connexions. The case was then treated as one of compound dislocation of the ankle-joint. About a month after the accident, the patient died of pyaemia ; and, on exa- mining the foot, it was found that the anterior portion of the astragalus had been splintered into seven fragments, which were retained in place by the pressiu’e of the siUTOunding parts. No other bone of the tarsus was injured, nor was the malleolar arch fractured. Of this splintering of the anterior frag- ment, there was no evidence diming hfe ; nor was there any reason to suspect it, as there was neither crepitus nor displacement. The extent of the fr’actme showed the immense force with which the astragalus had been driven into and against the malleolar arch. Were such a case again to occur to me, I should certainly amputate at once. The only similar case with which 1 am acquainted is one recorded by Mon-is. In this the displaced frag-ment did not occasion a woimd of the integument. It was excised owing to the impossibility of reducing it; but the anterior part of the astragalus which ivas left fell into a state ol caries, which spread to the other tarsal bones, rendering amputation of the foot necessary. The other tarsal bones are but I'ery rarely fractured, except in crushes or gun-shot injuries of the foot. The Scaphoid I have once seen fractiu-ed by a fall. It Avas in the case of a man who fell down the shaft of a lift at an hotel, about 00 feet deep, receiving injiuies to the chest and spine that eventually killed him. He appeared to have alighted, in the fii’st instance, on the right foot, the os calcis of which was extensiA'ely fractm-ed, and the scaphoid broken across Aidthout displacement, the astragalus being uninjiued. In all cases of fracture of the tarsal bones, whether simple or compomid, with so much displacement as to render reduction difficult and its maintenance impossible, the best coiuse to be pursued is that of cutting doAim upon and remoAung the displaced fragment. I know not Avhat else can be done.^ Fracture of the Metatarsal Bones usually occiu’S from du’ect Avolence, as by the passage of the wheel of a cart or railway-camage over the foot, and is then attended Avith so much laceration and bruising of the soft parts as not unfrcquently to render amputation necessary. I have in one instance knoAvn the three outer metatarsal bones broken by a person jimipiug fr-om a height. But most commonly their elasticity saves them, and the ankle-joint gives Avay in such an accident. There is but little, if any, displacement m these cases ; and unless the soft parts be so damaged as to require amputation, the support of a starched or plaster bandage is usually all the treatment that is necessary.