effects oh unreduced DISLOCATIOX. 459 in<r especiaUy. This is always torn by the prcssiu-e of the liead of the bone in dislocation of orbicidar joints : in those of liinge-joints, it may escape, ihe situation of the slit in the capsule is of great importance in reference to rcauc- tion. It commonly occurs in the shoulder towards the attachment around tlic o-lenoid cavity ; in the hip, as Busch has pointed out, at the acetabular margin. In many cases, the muscles and tendons in the immediate neighbourhood are lacerated as well as displaced, and the vessels and nerves compressed. The skin is commonly stretched, and sometimes ruptimed, when the dislocation becomes compound. If the dislocation be simple, and if reduction be speedily effected, the injuries ai'c soon repaired ; and although a good deal of stiffiiess may continue, the fimctions of the joint are, in general, not pemianently interfered with. If the dislocation be left urn-educed, important changes take place mthiii and around the joint, in the bony structures, the ligaments, capsule, and muscles. The changes in the bony structm-es are very slow, differing in this respect materially in ordinary traumatic dislocations, from what takes place in a joint that has been dislocated as the result of disease. If the articulation 1 be an orbicular one, as the shoulder or hip, the cavity, whether glenoid or acetabular, undergoes very gradual changes in outline and depth; its circum- ference becomes contracted, less regular, more angular, and the hollow even- tually shallows. These changes are so slow in the adult, that several years will elapse before they have gone on to such a degxee as to prevent the dis- placed head of the bone fr-om bemg put back. In children and yoimg people they are more rapid and complete, and the cavity fills up with a dense fibrous deposit. In the hinge-joints, the articular ends of the displaced bones become altered in shape—flattened or angular, -with the osseous projections less strongly marked. The incrusting cartilage is gradually absorbed, and the bone smoothed. The ligaments are shortened and wasted ; and a false joint forms around the articular end of the bone in its new situation. In some cases, the bone upon which the dislocated head rests becomes depressed into a shallow cup-shaped cavity, so as to receive it; in others the depression is formed by the elevation of a rim of callus upon the adjacent bone ; and in both instances the areolar tissue in the neighboiuhood becomes consolidated into a fibroid cai^sule sur- rounding and fixing the bone in its new situation, and usually admitting of but a limited degTee of motion. The soft structures that have been lacerated at the time of the dislocation become matted together by plastic material ; the muscles shorten, atrophy, and at last imdergo fatty degeneration fr-om disuse : the neighbouring- vessels and nerves may become attached to the new joint, or their sheaths become incorporated with the altered structiu-es in contact w'ith them. Tkeatmext.—In the treatment of dislocations, the first and principal indi- cation consists in replacing the bone in its normal situation as speedily as possible. In doing this, the 8ui-geon has two great difficulties to overcome : 1, the contraction of the muscles of the part ; and 2, the resistance arising from the anatomical stracturc of the joint and the laceration of the capside. f. One great obstacle to reduction in most dislocations is the tonic rou- fruction of the muscles inserted into or below the displaced bones ; and in tlic reduction of the dislocation the Surgeon’s efforts arc chiefly directed to over-