41 AMPUTATION BY TEALE'S AIETHOD. conical. If the limb hare been the seat of much and long-continued suppura- tive action, the muscles do not retract -when cut, but hang soft and flaccid, as in a dead body. The flaps, therefore, need not be made so long as in primary amputation for injmy. And hero, also, too much muscle is disadvantageous, getting between the skin-flaps, and occasioning trouble and delay in the healing of the stump. If, howe’^'er, the flaps be themseh'cs much infiltrated by inflam- matory products, they must be cut so as to look somewhat long at the time of the operation, or else, as cieatrisation advances and the inflammatory products become absorbed, they will be found to be too short, and a conical stump will result. Ampidaiion hy the Rectanyular Flap.—The late Mr. Teale, of Leeds, for some yeai’s practised amputation by a long and short rectangular flap, with the '^dew of jjrociu-ing a more useful stump, and in the hope of somewhat diminishing the mortahty of the operation. In j)erfonning I amputation by this method, the I long flap is cut from that side of the limb where the parts are generally devoid of large blood-vessels and nerves; whilst the short flap is made to in- clude those structimes, which are cut across transversely, as sho'wn in the annexed figime from Teale. The long flaj) is perfectly square ; and the rule for its formation given by Teale is, that its length and breadth should each be equal to the half of the ciremnference of the limb at the place where the bones are to be sami. If the circumference be 9 inches, the length and the breadth of the flap should be each 4^- inches. Both flaps should in- clude all the soft parts of the limb. The short flap, which is always cut so as to contain the chief vessels and nerves, is one-fourth of the length of the long- one. The bones are sawn exactly at the angle of union of the flaps, udthout any pre\dous retraction of the soft parts. The vessels are then tied, and the long flap is folded over the end of the bone, and attached by sutures, as in the accompanying figure, to the short flap. Teale directs that the stump should be laid on a pillow lightly co-N’cred with gauze or linen, and protected from pressui-e by a cradle ; but in the early treatment he says that no dressings are required. The Results of amputation by this method were very satisfactory in Teale’s hands ; but more abiuidant evidence is required in order to show whether the mortality of amputations generally is dependent on the particular method adopted, rather than on constitutional causes and external influence's that operate equally in all cases. The rectangular method undoubtedly possesses one very gi-eat ad's'antage over the circular or ordinary flap, in gi\dng a soft and loose covering to the ends of the bones, admitting of direct bearing upon tliem ; especially advan- tageoijs after the amputation of the thigh or leg, when direct pressure can scarcely be dispensed with, and when a solid firm stiunp admitting it is of Fig. 10.—Lines of Incision in Teale’s Amputation.