779 Olliom AND GllOWTIL OF CANCER. It is doubtless true that every one of the microscopic elements above 1 .■] nnv senorately occur in the normal tissues and secretions of the bodT some in the adult, others, as the caudate and fusiform in the embryo : but, though this be the case, it does not appear that they are ever found similai-ly grouped in any tumours, except those of a cancerous nature ; and in these it is rather by the aggTegation of these appearances, than by any single one in particular, that the true charactei of the disease is determined. In his examinations, however, the experienced Sim^eon mil find that the appearances presented to the naked eye will ass him“much in pronoimcing upon the mahgnant or cancerous character of the and Growth of Cancer.—The exact mode of origin and growth of a cancer is still a much disputed point, and opinions are still much dudded upon it. Virchow attributed the origin and growth entirely to changes occurring in the connecth-e-tissue-corpusclcs. He believed that the first change was a midtiplication of these cells, certain gi-oups of which afterwards developed into ceUs of an epithehal type, while from the remainder the stroma was formed. This Hew may now be said to be finally abandoned, since the discovery of the exudation of the white corpuscles of the blood. ^ There may then be said to be three chief views at present held by pathologists of high repute. 1st. That of Thiersch and Waldeyer, that the cells of cancer are the direct descendants of pre-existing epithelium-ceUs, and that true carcinoma can never arise except in connection with epithelium. The term epithelium is here used in its limited sense, meaning only those cells which cover free smfaces, as distinguished from the “ endothelium, which lines blood-'s essels and lymph-spaces or cavities. On this view, true carcinoma can never arise primarily in bone, muscle, or subcutaneous tissue. Waldeyer believes that the rapidly gTowirrg epithehum-cells force their way into the lymphatic spaces, and that the alveoli of the cancer-stroma are indeed only altered lymph- spaces. He beheves he has demonstrated a layer of endothelium, covering the epithelium-cells of the cancer. If this be correct, the great readirress with which cancer infects the lymphatic glands is fully explained. The observations of Thiersch were confined to epithelioma ; Waldeyer exterrded his Hews to all forms of carreer. 2nd. That of Koster, who also believes that the ceUs of a carreer are actuaUy enclosed in lymph-spaces, but attributes their origirr to proliferation of the endothelium of the lymphatics. Orr this view, true carreer may arise primarily in any structrne of the body. 3rd. That of Classerr, who attributes the gvowth of cancer to charrges takirrg place in white blood-corpuscles, which have migrated from the blood-vessels. This view is identical with Virchow’s, except that Avhite blood-corpirscles are substituted for proliferated connective-tissue corpuscles—a change Avhich has been almost urriversal in pathology sirree Cohrrheim demorrstrated the import- ance of the fact of the migTatiorr of these corpuscles. Orr this A’ierv also, true cancer may originate in airy structure in the body. The first of these three viervs is steadily gainiirg ground. It has the support of Billroth and marry other emiirent pathologists. This view necessitates the