347 TEAUAfATIG ARTHRITIS. and the patient eventually survive, it will be with a partially ankylosed limb, the utility of which is greatly impaired. _ The severity of the symptoms in the wound of a large joint is evidently dependent on the extent and depth of the synovial membrane which suppurates, wounds of ginglymoid being hence more dangerous than those of orbicular joints ; amfoiUhe retention of the pus thus formed, or its imperfect exit from the midst of the tense and unyielding tissues. The admission of air into the joint is of itself a great source of danger, though not necessarily of destructive disor<>'anisation. Its danger is well shown by the fact that, in the most ex- tensive subcutaneous wounds and larcerations of joints, such as occiu’ in dis- locations and simple fr'actures in which the capsule is widely torn, the h'gaments ruptiu’ed, the incrusting cartilages and synoAial membrane broken through, and the interior of the joint filled with blood, suppimation never takes place, but the lacerated joint-structures heal kindly and well in a few weeks, leading the articulation almost unimpaired in its movements. The presence of air appears to exercise an injurious influence upon the pus collected in the depths of the joint, causing it to become putrescent and acrid, and thus greatly in- creasing the local irritation. It is this retention of acrid and putrescent pus, in contact with a large inflamed surface, that gives rise to ataxic fever and pyaemia, which so fr’equently prove fatal in these injinies. Of aU wounds of joints, gun-shot injinies are necessarily the worst. In these, the aperture camiot possibly be closed and miited by the first intention ; it and the track of the ball must suppurate. The bones are also usually splintered, and foreign bodies of various kinds are introduced into the articulation ; hence the most extensive disorganising and fatal mischief commonly ensues. Traumatic arthritis differs fr’om the destructive and disorganising idiopathic inflammations of joints in this : that, when the inflammation occurs as the result of a wound, the synovial membrane is the part primarily affected ; if the cartilages become involved, they are so secondarily ; the articular ends of the bones not participating in the morbid action. When a joint is the seat of disorganising inflammation of an idiopathic character, the mischief usually commences in the osseous articular ends, or in the cartilage, the synovial membrane being often the last affected. In the traumatic form, the disease may be said to radiate from the centre of the joint; in the idiopathic, to pro- ceed from the circumference. In recent cases of traumatic arthritis we find the synovial membrane lustreless, swollen, tufted, infiltrated, gelatinous in appearance, of a crimson coloiu, and covered with lymph ; the contiguous or subjacent portions of car- tilage are softened and partially eroded. Under the microscope, a disruption oi^ the cartilage-cells may be observed, and the intervening substance is granular ; these changes gradually cease in deeper sections of the cartilage, which wiU be found to present a healthy appearance. In the more advanced stages of the disease, when the joint has been suppurating perhaps for months, it will be found that the synovial membrane is deeply Auscular in places, in other parts pulpy and infiltrated with, or replaced by, greyish or yeUoAnsh plastic matter. The cartilages are eroded in patches exposing the rough and injected smTaces of the articular extremity of the bone ; where not eroded, they are pulpy and disorganised. Occasionally partial but misuccessful