431 FRAGTVRB OF NECK OF THIGH-BONE. of the treatment, a generous, and even stimulating diet should be ordered, and the patient kept on a water-bed or cushion. In these fractures of the neck of the femur, the starched bandage u-ill often be found to be most useful. It may be applied as in fractured thigh, but should have additional strength in the spica part, and indeed may be pro^■ided with a small pasteboard cap so as to give more efficient support. In old people, this plan of treatment is espe- cially advantageous, as it enables them to sit up or even to walk about, and thus prevents all the ill effects of long confinement in bed. Extracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-Bone is commonly met n-ith at an earlier period of life than the injmy which has just been described, being most frequent between the ages of thirty and forty, but it is also met with at advanced periods of life. It is the result of the applica- tion of gi-eat and direct violence upon the hip, and occurs equally in both sexes. In both Fig. 175.—Simple Extracapsu- lar Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-Bone : Detach- ment of the Troohantez’. This fracture may be of two kinds ; the simple, or the imiKicted. cases the neck of the bone is commonly broken at, or immediately outside, the insertion of the capsule of the joint. The fracture is almost im’ariably comminuted ; indeed, I have never seen a case in which the gveat trochanter was not either detached or siihntered into several fragments. In many instances the lesser trochanter is detached, and the upper end of the shaft injined (Fig. 175). This splintering of the tro- chanter is owing to the same violence that breaks the bone forcing the lower end of the neck into the cancellous structure of this pirocess, and thus, by a wedge-hke action, breaking it into fragments. When the neck continues locked in between these, we have the impacted form of fr-acture. The Signs of extracapsular fracture vary according as it is simple or impacted; but in both cases they partake of the general character of those of fractiu’e within the capsule. The indnudual signs, how- ever, present certain well-marked differences. The hip will usually be found much brmsed and swollen from extravasation of blood, which is often considerable. In the simple fracture, the crepitus is very cbstinct and lond, being readily felt on laying the hand upon the trochanter, and moving the limb. The separate fragments into which the trochanter is splintered may occasionally be felt to he loose. The pain is very severe, and greatly increased by any attempt at moving the joint, which to the patient is impossible. The evasion is usually strongly marked, and the position of the limb is characteristic of complete want of power in it. Inversion occurs more frequently in this fr-actin-e than in that within the capsule. Smith finds that of 7 cases of inversion of the limb in fr’actures of the neck of the femur, 5 occiUTed in the extracapsidar fractine ; and of 15 cases of intracapsular fr-acture, this condition was met with in 3. When there is much comminution of the trochanter the foot wdl commonly remain in any position in which it is placed, but generally has a tendency to rotate outwards. ^