694 ERYSIPELAS. feci, communicating a scmi-fiuctuating, doughy sensation to the fingers. Tliis change from a tense brawny state to a semi-pulpy condition indicates the forma- tion of pus and slough beneath the integument, and occins without any material alteration in tbe size, colour, or general appearance of the part, but can only be detected by careful palpation; hence the Simgcon must daily examine with his own fingers the state of the part, and neither trust to the reports of others, nor to the general appearance of the diseased structiu’cs, for a know- ledge of the probable condition of the subjacent tissues. If an incision be now made into the affected part, the areolar membrane will be found loaded with an opalescent fluid distending its interstitial loculi, but not flowing from the wound ; the retention of this fluid gives a gelatinous appearance to the sides of the incision, Avhich rapidly degenerate into slough and pus. If the alteration in structure have advanced to a stage beyond this, the areolar tissue will be found to have been converted into dense masses of slough, bathed in thin and unhealthy ichorous pus ; these sloughs have not inaptly been compared in appearance to masses of decomposed tow, of wet chamois leather, or to the membranes of an embryo a few months old. Whilst these changes are going on below the siuface, the skin, at first congested, becomes somewhat paler, and assumes a white or marbled appearance, rapidly forming into black sloughs, and being undermined to a large extent by large quantities of broken-up areolar tissue and of ill-conditioned pus, without any appearance of pointing, however extensive the subcutaneous mischief may be. These destructive changes expose muscles, fascice, and blood-vessels, and may induce necrosis of the bones or destroy the joints. They occur most readily in those parts of the body that possess the lowest degree of vitahty, and hence ai'e more common in eiysipelas of the legs than in the same affection of the scalp. If the patient recover, there udll be tedious cicatrisation of the deep cavities that are left, or con- siderable oedema, often of a solid character, a kind of false hypertrophy of the part, which may continue for some considerable time. In other cases, there may be such extensive local destruction or gangrene of the soft tissues, with exposure and death of the bones or suppmation of the joints, that amputation of the limb may be required to save the patient’s life. No operation of this kind, however, should ever be practised for the effects of erysipelas, imless they be strictly localised, and without tendency to spread; nor until specific consti- tutional fever has been completely removed, except such as is ot a hectic character, and dependent on the exhausting influences of the suppuration and disorganisation of tissues. During the progress of these local changes, the Constitutional SymiAoms have assumed corresponding modifications. At fii'st of an active inflammatory character, the fever, when suppmation and sloughing have set in, often si - denly becomes asthenic. Although in some cases there is at fii-st no dimim - tion in the severity of the symptoms, the constitution gives ^ the patient has struggled for a few days against the exhaustmg licences o the disease, and death speedily supervenes. If the patient ® sloughing, and if the discharge continue abundant, hectic, gastro-intestinal irritation, metastatic abscesses, oi pytemia, may . If recoYory oventually take place, it may be at the «P™<; f impaired and shattered for years. This disease is most total m the old