326 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. iiig the scali)el into ■\'ciy close proximity with the sac, which, were it to stretch upwards imder the pectoralis minor to a gi’eatcr extent than could he discernible externally, might possibly be opened by the knife, as has even happened in ojDerating aboA^e the claA'iclc. It has been recommended to apply the ligature between the sac and the origins of the subscapular and posterior circumflex arteries, beloAV the former and above the latter ; but this is an anatomical impossibility, if the aneurism be situated above the lower border of the axilla. Compression of the artery on the distal side of the tumour succeeded in curing the disease in a case that Avas under Gloldsmith of Vermont. Brachial Artery.—The haemorrhage from Wounds of the Brachial Artery may sometimes be an’ested by the employment of methodical compres- sion, but usually it requires the ordinary ligature on each side of the aperture. This vessel may occasionally be punctiued in A'enesection. This accident, AA'hich Avas formerly of frequent occurrence Avhen venesection Avas practised by professed phlebotomists, now very rarely happens. Should a Surgeon be so unfortunate as to puncture the brachial arteiy in this Avay, he may prevent injiuious consequences by keeping up a proper degvee of pressure, by means of a graduated comj)ress ajiphed immediately on the occiurence of the accident. With this view, the fingers, hand, and fore-arm having been A'eiy carefully padded and bandaged, a Avell-made graduated compress should be fli-mly applied over the seat of pimctiue, and retained there for at least ten days or a fortnight. Should the aperture in the artery not be closed in this way, either a circumscribed false aneurism, a varicose aneiuism, or an aneiuismal varix AAull form, according to its situation in relation to the A'ein. In the Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism at the bend of the arm, folloAxing a wound of the brachial artery, Ave have the usual soft or semi-solid pulsating tumoiu’, which can readily be emptied on pressure, and possesses more or less bruit. This disease may be treated in one of three ways : 1, by com- pression upon or above the tumour ; 2, by ligaturing the artery leading to it ; or 3, by cutting through the sac, and deligating the A'essel on each side of the apertiu’e in it. The compression of the tumoiu’ has often been successfully practised. It may be done by means of a graduated compress on the tumour, and the appli- cation of a ring-tourniquet over the arteiy : the tumoiu’ becoming consohdated, and gradually undergoing absorption. In employing compression great care must be taken, however, not to induce sloughing of the tissues over the tumoin- by sudden and too forcible pressm’e. The limb should be carefully bandaged up and maintained in the semi-flexed position. Should this plan not succeed, we must be guided in oiu ulterior measiues by the particular conditions of the case. If the tumoiu be of recent origin, soft and compressible, or, though of longer diuation, large, Anth a thin sac, and danger of becoming difiFuscd, it ^ should be treated by direct incision, and the arteiy be deligated on each side of the wound in it. Should, hoAvever, the tumour be small, or but of moderate size, and the sac be tolerably thick and fim, so as to admit of the deposit of laminated fibrine, Ave may treat it by deligatioii of the brachial aitciy, ei er in the middle of the arm, or, as Anel did Avith success, immediately above the tumour. In the event, however, of the disease not being cuied in t s Aiay, incision of the sac must be had recourse to, as I have kiiOAni to be iiecessaiy in