encepiialoid cangee. 78: Fig. 30G.—Scin-lms of Breast (188 cliam.). Much cicatrised; the .stroma hears a large proportion to the cells, which are smaU and granular; in a fully cicatrised specimen there would he similar alveolar spaces containing only granular dShris. it is the cviclent state of tension in ivhich the tumour is, that gives of .cirims in goncl. Ou o.wmining a sc.rrhoua cancer microscopically (Figs. 80;>, 30t!), it will he found to he sur- rounded cveiyivlicre by a zone of small round cells infiltrating the suiTOunding parts, penetrating be- tween fat-cells and muscular fibres, and extending along bands of con- nective tissue. A little nearer the centre the alveolar an-angement becomes apparent, and gTOups of rounded or irregidar cells, with large oval nuclei, are found imbedded in spaces in a stroma of coarse fibrous tissue. These spaces communi- cate with each other like those of a sponge. The stroma and cells there usually form about equal bulks of the growth. The stroma shows signs of active growth, having spindle - cells scattered here and there through it, sometimes in abundance. A little nearer the centre we find the cells begin- ning to degenerate, the nuclei be- coming hidden by clouds of fat-granules, and perhaps fat-granules appearing in the stroma ; the spindle-ceUs are replaced by elongated tailed cells with scarcely any protoplasm around the nuclei. Towards the centre the fatty cells disappear, and a few granules only mark where they were, and the stroma becomes dense and hard, and even the nuclei before mentioned are difficult to recognise. The above is a description of the ordinary sciirhus of moderately slow growth. In more vigorously growing specimens the degeneration is delayed, the cica- trisation is less perfect, and the proportion of bulk occupied by the cells is increased. Encephaloid.—A large number of growths formerly classed as encephaloid cancer are now included under the various forms of rapidly growing soft sarco- mata. The true encephaloid cancer is a comparatively uncommon disease. It occius in the testis and the breast, and may often attain an enormous size, equal to that of an adult head. In bone it is extremely rare, if it ever arise in this situation primarily. The tumours formerly described as cancer of bone are now included under the names of round-celled, spindle-celled, and giant- celled, or myeloid sarcoma. The encephaloid cancer of the cyc-baU is now classed with sarcomata, under the name of glioma or glio-sarcoma ; and the disease described as cancer of the bones of the face is now also known to be almost invariably if not always sarcomatous. Encephaloid cancer commences as a tumour, which, though occasionally somewhat hard, is usually from the first, or at all events soon becomes, soft