SY}fPTOMS OF RODENT ULCER. 887 bouring lymphatic glands do not become implicated, and secondary visceral deposits are never met Avith. As the ulceration extends, there is often a tendency to imperfectcicati-isation on one margin, whilst the disease is making progress at the other. It always commences in the skin, usually on healthy in- tegument ; but occasionally it primarily affects a portion of the skin which is the seat of some chronic change of structure, as a mole, a wart, or a scar. Symploms.—In whatever situation it begins, its first appearance is in the shape of a tubercle or hard pimple of a bro\vnish-red colour. This is most commonly seen on the side of the nose, on the mouth, or on the cheek. This tubercle ulcerates slowly ; and then the disease extends. Moore, to whom we are indebted for a most lucid account of this terrible afiection, lays especial stress on its commencement in a hard wart, and its continued extension by a hard margin. This ulcerated tubercle becomes covered by a scab ; but, as the process of destructive ulceration progresses, the sore becomes too large to be covered by a scab, and an ulcer is left. This ulcer, which constitutes the disease, and is the true “ Lvpus," or “ NoU-me-tangere ” of the older authors, presents the folloAving characters. It is depressed slightly below the surface, is of a pale pink colour, with a furrowed rather than a granulating surface, resembling by its furrowed smoothness an irregular layer of pink wax, and is usually painless, except where cicatrising. The ulceration, sometimes running- on too rapidly for the margin, invades and destroys it in parts, cicatrising unequally and unhealthily ; in other cases it leaves in its advance a track of bluish-reddish-white thin cicatrix, which is apt to be again invaded and destroyed by fresh deposit of the lupoid tubercle. In fact, in its ulcerative progress and eroding action, it destroys its own indurated margin, eats away its o^vn morbid deposit more rapidly than it can be reformed, and so, here and there reaching healthy tissues, allows an opportunity for cicatrisation to take place on one side, whilst it is progressing on another. The cicatrices are altogether unstable, and are hable to be broken dorni by these rencAved invasions of the disease. Whether it be fast or slow, the course of the disease is always progressive; more rapid in the skin, more sIoav in the bones and less vascular tissues, as those of a cartilaginous and fibroid character; the pinna of the ear, the sclerotic, and the septum of the nose, for instance. "When it attacks bones, it perforates them, and sinks deeply into their sol'ter parts. Moore has noticed that the morbid gi-OAvth in fr-ont of the advancing disease is always most clearly marked in cancellated bone—in the diploe, foi instance. The solt parts immediately contiguous to the disease are perfectly Fig. 326.-—Rodent Ulcer : Rcrforatioii of Skull and exposure of Dura Muter. healthy and uuinfiltrated ; and there is never, even after many years of proo-ress any sign 01 secondary affection of the lymphatic glands. Unless the progreS of tins nicer l)c arrested by treatment, it is never interrapted, but will temrinato I