68o SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE DISEASES. to decompose, clearly shows that iu these cases, at least, something more than the ordinary products of putrefaction must ho present. Pyaemia, scpticiumia, and hospital gangrene appeal’, in all cases, to be of septic or infective origin. Septic influences also play an important part as predisposing causes of erysipelas, yet it frequently occiu-s independently of them. The poison which produces these diseases is always animal in its origin. In surgical practice, its development is usually directly or indirectly the result of overcrowding of patients suffering from suppurating wounds or sores iu wards that are either insufficient in size, or that are imperfectly ventilated, or of defective attention to the hygiene of the wound itself. Under the influence of overcrowding of pus-producing Avounds, the atmosphere of the apartment becomes loaded with organic matter in a state of decomposition.* It has been directly shown, by experiment, that the ah’, under such circumstances, contains floating in it epithelium scales, and other organic particles; and as Parkes says, “ It is a question whether we shall not be obliged to beheve that every pus or epithelium cell, or even formless organic ■ substance, floating in the air, may, if it find a proper place or nidiis in or on which it can be received, com- municate to it its OAAm action, and thus act as a true contagium.” It has been established incontestibly that if the cubic capacity of a ward be taken, and the rate of ventilation through it determined, a Surgeon may with certainty foretell how many suppurating Avounds it AviU require to generate septic disease in it. If I may ventiu’e to use such an expression, I may say that a Sm-geon might at anytime ‘'grow” septic and infective diseases in a Avard by crowding it, beyond its capacity of healthy endimance, vith patients suffering from suppurating Avounds. These diseases occur therefore in direct proportion to the neglect of hygienic arrangements. They are in most cases the result of certain definite infringements of sanitary rules ; they are not accidental; they are preventable, and ought to be prevented, so far as they arise from hospital contammation. These diseases may probably be produced in several ways. If, as there is every reason to believe, the poison is in some cases nothing more than the ordinary products of decomposition, there is no difi&culty in understandmg how it may arise in the discharges of a Avound. If through uuskihul siu’gical treatment the serous, purulent, or sanious discharges, mixed Avith ah’, be pent up in deep cavities, decomposition must result; and the putrescent mattei, if absorbed, AviU give rise to pytemia and septicaemia. Healthy gTanulations seem to offer a powerful resistance to such absorption, but in contact AA’ith decom- posing matter at some degree of pressure they readily slough, and the barrier is then broken down. When, as is undoubtedly frequently the case, the poison giving rise to the disease is something specific, it is carried from one patient to another either by the atmosphere which has become impme from impertect ventilation, or by dirty dressings, instruments, or fingers. Another method is piu’ely hypothetical. It is supposed by some that a patient may imbibe tfr’ongh the lungs, and possibly the skin, some virus floating in the air, and that his blood may be thus contaminated and that the secretions of the woimd may become infectiv’e. This AdeAV is maintained chiefly with legar to eiysipe as, and its supporters adduce iu its tavoiu’ the folloAiing facts. 1. le cons i u tional symptoms frequently precede the local by many horns ; -. ujsip ■* See also Clwptors I. aiul II. •j \ I