905 TETANUS IN MILITARY FRAG TICE. l)een known to follow tlie removal of the breast, amputation, the ligatui-e of the larger arteries, and tlie operation for hernia. The minor surgical opera- tions also are not free from the possibility of this dangerous complication. It has been observed after the operation for fistula in ano, the ligature of piles and ^-aricocele, the remo^’al of nasal polypi ; and I have even seen a fatal case resulting from the introduction of an issue. Bimns are peculiarly liable to be followed by tetanus. It is the common belief, both in the profession and out of it, that wounds of the hands and feet, and more especially of the ball of the thumb and of the great toe, are more hkely to be foUow'ed by tetanus than those in other situations. I think the truth of this opinion may be doubted ; though it is not improbable that tetanus may occui- more frequently after injuries of these regions than of other parts of the body, simply because punctiu-ed and lacerated wounds are more common here than elsewhere. It cannot well be supposed to be owing to the tendons and fascim that abound here, as Hunter imagined ; for it is seldom, if ever, met with after operations for tenotomy, which are so commonly practised on the feet. Tetanus may occur in aU constUutions—in the strong and robust, and in the feeble and emaciated. It is especially apt, however, to occm- in feeble and debilitated individuals, and, indeed, may be looked upon as a disease of debility; hence any condition that lowers the tone of the nervous system is especially likely to occasion it. When it occurs in persons who are otherwise strong and in the qjrime of life, it 'wiU be fomid that they have been exposed to causes of depression influencing the nervous system. It is loss of nervous tone, and not muscular weakness, that disposes to this disease. Thus, in tropical climates, as in some of the West ludiaTslands, and amongst the marshes of Cayenne, it occurs with peculiar fr’equency, the most trifling scratches or punctimes being followed by the disease. Poland, who has exhausted the statistics of tetanus, states that the mortahty from it is in London *025, whereas in Bombay it is 2 0 per cent, of the total deaths. It is interesting to observe, that the natives of hot climates are far more liable to this disease than Em’ojieans resident there. In militai'y practice tetanus is of common occurrence. Its frequency varies much in different campaigns and under different circumstances, season, and climate. In*the Peninsular War, it was estimated to occim in the proportion of about one case in every 200 wounded ; in the Schlesivig-Holstein war of 1849, according to Stromeyer, once in about 350 cases. In the Crimea it appears to have been of rare occurrence. Alcock’s estimate of one to every 4 9 wounded is evidently too high. After naval engagements, however, the mortality has often been high, more particularly if they have taken place in tropical climates. Sir G. Blane states that, after Eodney’s action in the West of 810 wounded 20 were attacked with tetanus, being one in 40. All European Army-Surgeons are agreed, that sudden changes from heat to cold arc amongst the most frequent causes of tetanus amongst the wounded Ihus Lairey states that, after the battle of Moskowa, although the number of wounded was immense, there were feiv cases of tetanus, the heat lieino- very great and continuous ; whilst after Bautzen, where the wounded were feft on 100 tetanus; and at Cl the Ixittle of Dresden, when great heat was foUowcd by much wet and cold, the wounded suffered most severely. So, after some of the Indian