AGUPRESSUliE. 297 attached for a much longer period than this, owing to the inclusion within its noose of a bit of lascia, nor^■e, or muscular substance. In order to hasten the separation in these cases, moderate traction and occasional t-wisting of the ligatiu-e may be practised. 8. Acupressure.—By Acupressure is meant the occlusion of an arteiy by the pressure of a needle in such a way as to an*est the circidation through it or the ha3morrhage from it. This method of treatment was introduced into siu'gical practice by the late Sir James Simpson as a substitute for the ligature. Acupressme may be applied in several different ways. There are four principal methods. The first method is can-ied out in the following way, which I give as nearly as possible in Sir James Simpson’s own words. The Surgeon places the tip of the fore-finger of his left hand upon the bleeding mouth of the arteiy which he intends to compress and close ; holding the needle in his right hand, he passes it thi-ough the cutaneous siu-face of the flap, and pushes it inwards till its point jirojects out to the extent of a few lines on the raw surface of the woimd, a little to the right of, and anterior to, his finger-tip ; he then, by the action of his right hand upon the head of the needle, turns and directs its sharp extremity so that it makes a bridge as it were across the site of the tube of the bleeding artery, immediately in front of the j)oint of the finger Avith which he is shutting up its orifice ; he next, either vsdth the same fore-finger of the left hand, or Avith the side of the extremity of the needle itself, compresses the locality of the bleeding arterial orifice and tube, and then pushes on the needle Avith his right hand, so as to make it re-enter the siu'face of the AA-ound a httle to the left side of the artery ; and, lastly, by pressing the needle farther on in this direction, its point re-emerges thi’ough the cutaneous sirnface of the flfip the site of the tube of the bleeding artery being in this way left pinned Fig. 123.—Acupressure. First Method. Fig. —^.iVeupressure. First Method. Raw Surface. Cutaneous Surface. doAVTi in a compressed state by the arc or bridge of steel that is passed over it. d ha needle thus passes first thi’ough and fr’om the skin of the flap inwards to the raw siuface of the Avound, and, after bridging OA’er the site of the artery, it passes secondly from the raw surface of the Avouud outwards again to and through the skin. Sometimes the needle Avill be best passed by the aid of the eye alone, and Avithout guiding its coiu’se by the finger-tip applied to the bleeding orifice. It compresses not the arterial tube alone, but also the struc- tures placed over and around the site of the tube. When the needle is com- p etcly adjusted, all of it that is seen, and that not necessarily so, on the siu’face 0 the raw wound, is the small portion of it passing over the site of the artery ( ig. 123); while externally, upon the cutaneous surfiico of the flap, Ave have