829 OPERATIONS IN SCROFULOUS CASES. o.- iiviv often be usefully administered in fulfilling ordinary therapeutic iiidLations Kinger has lately recommended the sulphide of caUumi as ex- tremely valuable in scrofulous and tuberculous glands, and m chronic strumous sores and abscesses. He uses it in a solution which has much the strength of Harro‘>-ate AVaters. Thus, he directs a gram of the sulphide of calcium to dissolved in a half pint of water, and of this a teaspoonful is taken every hoiu. Under its influence, the glands, it is said, either return to the normal state or hasten on to suppuration, and chronic abscesses either dry up or are speedily broiio-ht forward and their contents discharged, a healthy heahng sore being left The Local Treatment of scrofula consists in a great measure in the ordi- nary local management of chi-onic inflammation, modified according to the seat and peculiar natm-e of the affection. Much of the local treatment, however, especially in the more advanced stages, consists in removing the effects of the disease in the shape of aplastic deposits, false hypertrophies, and general enlargement and thickening of parts. This may usuaUy be done by the appli- cation of lotions containing the iodide of potassium, or the carbonate of potash, apphed by means of lint covered with oiled sdk ; a drachm of each of the salts, with an oimce of spirits of wine to eleven ounces of water, makes an excellent appheation, which appears to dissolve away the fibrinous and plastic deposits common in this disease. In many cases, frictions with the iodide of lead ointment, or pressure by means of strapping and bandages, will be found the most serviceable means that the Singeon can adopt. When matter forms, it should be let out in accordance with the rules laid down in treating of the more chronic forms of abscess. In these cases, the injection of the sac of the abscess vdth a solution of iodine will be foiuid very useful. Operations in Scrofulous and Tuberculous Cases.—In cases of scrofu- lous diseases of the soft parts, the bones, or the joints, the question of the propriety of operating, whether this be for the excision of a gland, the resection of a joint or bone, or the amputation of a limb, has often been discussed. In these cases, operations should not be undertaken too hastily, too early in the disease, or in very young subjects. The affection being constitutional, it will often be found, as the general health of the patient is improved by proper treatment, that local mischief, which at first appeared very intractable, gradually assumes a more circumscribed and healthy form, and, in fact, to a great extent undergoes spontaneous cine by the restoration of the healthy action in the parts. This we especially find to be the case in yoimg children, in whom very extensive disease of the bones and joints may often be recovered from, without the necessity of any serious surgical interference. Should any operation be midertaken, it is desirable not to have recourse to it whilst the disease is actively spreading. In these circumstances, it is not only probable that suppmatire inflammation of an unhealthy kind may be set up in the wound itself^ but that disease of the soft parts or bones may recur in the cicatrix of the original wound, or that the corresponding parts on the opposite side of the body may become similarly affected in very chronic cases of scrofulous disease of bones and joints. After excision of the elbow, the knee, or the bones of the foot and wrist, the morbid action Avill some- times return in the contiguous soft parts to such an extent as to render