531 SIGiYS OF Firs WITHIN THE SKULL. pnriform Ijmpli, on tlie brain or its membranes. ]3ut althongli there may not be any symptom that unequiTOcally indieates the formation of pus in tliis situation, the Surgeon is not unfi-equently enabled, by tlie assemblage of general symptoms and local signs, to indicate its existence with considerable acciu-acy. In these cases, however, it is usually imppssible to detennine the exact scat of the purulent deposit with sufficient precision to admit of its evacuation Ijy the trephine—whether the pus be between the skull and the dura mater, between the layers of the arachnoid, underneath this membrane, between the cerebral com'olutions, or deeply seated in the substance of the brain ; whether it be situated under the seat of injury and be. there cfocimi- scribed, or so extensively diffused as not to be capable of complete evacuation. That these difficulties are real, must be ob'vious to e^•cry practical Sm-geon ; and in illustration T may mention the following two cases, out of many that I have untnessed. A man was admitted into University College Hospital with an extensi^'c lacerated wound of the scalp, denuding the pericranium. He continued free from aU cerebral disturbance until the tenth day after the accident, when he comijlained of headache, and had a quick pulse and a hot skin. At this time it was observed that the denuded pericranium had separated from the skull. He was treated by active antiphlogistic means, the symptoms subsiding, and went on favourably until the thirty-fourth day, when he suddenly became delirious and unconscious, though easily roused when spoken to loudly, and then answering rationally ; his pulse fell to 48. He died on the thirty-ninth day, comatose. On examination after death, the pericranium was found detached at the seat of injmy ; under this the dma mater was thick, yellow, and opaque, but no pus was observable. On separating the hemis- pheres, however, a large abscess was found situated deeply in the anterior lobe •on the injured side, and protruding into the median fissme. It contained about one ounce of pus. In such a case as this trephining' would evidently have been useless ; ' for, although it was probable that there was pus within the skidl, yet its seat could not have been diagnosed, and the abscess could never have been reached. Another case that was admitted into the Hospital, was that of a man who had received a large lacerated wound on the left side of the scalp in consequence of a fall. There was no injury to the bone, and the patient Avent on perfectly Avell until the seventy-seventh day, the wound haAnng cicatrised. He was then suddenly seized with hemiplegia of the right side, from which he recovered partially on being bled ; some tmtehing of the muscles, hoAveA'er, continued. n the ninety-ninth day after the accident he became comatose, and was trephined by S. Cooper, but Avithout relief; dying Avith symptoms of com- pression of the brain on the third day after the operation. On examination lick yelloAV lymph Avas found, coA-ering the AAffiole of the upper surface of both hemispheres, lying between the arachnoid and pia mater, and extendiiio- i„to the sulci betAveen the com-olutions. There was an abscess in the substance of e bram on the surface of the right hemisphere, on the side opposite to the a 0 injury. Here_ also, though the symptoms Averc well marked, and the c.,Tiosis as to the existence of pus correct, trephining Avas useless as the cou d not be evacuated. These cases serve to indicate the difficulties that M H 2