UNUNITED FRAGTUEE AND FALSE JOINT. 389 Unuxitkd Fractures and False Joints.—Some bones, when broken, ver}' rarely unite by callus or plastic inatter, their fragments merely being kept firm by the intervention of the aponeimotic structures of the part, as is the case with the patella. This, which is mving to a want of apposition of the fragments, and is dependent on the condition of the part, cannot be considered a diseased action. It occasionally happens, however, in fractures of the shafts or of the articu- lar ends of long bones, that proper union does not take place. This may be owing to one of four circumstances. 1. No uniting material of a stronger kind than a loose fibro-cellular tissue has been formed ; 2. The plastic matter that has been thrmvn out has only developed into fibrous tissue, not having undergone osseous transformation ; 3. True bony union has taken place, but, ovung to some peculiar state of the patient’s health, the callus has become absorbed, and the fracture loosened ; or, 4, The fragments may be so mdely sej)arated that no uniting material could form. In the first and third conditions we have an Ununited Fracture; the ends of the bone, which are roiuided and eburiiated, being merely connected by, and enveloped in, a loose fibro-cellular tissue. In the second condition we have a False Joint, the ends of the bone being- tied together by strong fibrous bands. The structiu-e of these false joints, Avhich has been carefully studied by Eokitansky, presents two distinct varieties. In the fii’st, which partakes of the character of a hinge-joint, we find that the ends of the fractm-e are smoothed and rounded, invested with a dense fibrous periosteum, and united to one another by thick bands of ligamentous tissue, in such a way as usually to admit of considerable lateral movement, though sometimes they are tolerably firm. In the other variety the joint partakes of the baU-and-socket character, usnally to a very imperfect degree, but sometimes in a sufficiently well developed mannei’, one end of the bone being rounded and invested by a periosteum, the other cup-shaped, and covered by firm smooth fibroid tissue. The bones are united by a kind of capsule, in Avhich a S}Tioiaa-like fluid has occasionally been found. The foim that the false joint will assume depends on the action of the muscles which influence it. Thus, when occurring in the shafts of long bones, where it is subjected to movements of flexion and extension, it vull assume the hinge-foim; whilst, when it is seated in the articular ends, where it is more subjected to movements of rotation, it will affect the ball-and-socket character. Non-union of fracture, whether resulting in false joint or in ordinary ununited fractiue, is undoubtedly very rare. I have very seldom met with it in my ovn practice. The cases that have been under my care at University College Hospital have almost all been sent up from various parts of the country, and probably present but a very small proportion of the fr-actures that have occurred in the districts fr’om which they have been sent. We probably exaggerate the frecjnency of non-union, if we say that it occurs in the proportion of one in a thousand cases of fr-acture of the limbs. ancuS^'^^^^° ununited fracture and of false joint are constitutional In some cases the Constitutional Cause appears to be a cachectic state of