2o6 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. putrescence, and pyfemia. The intivjduction of the drainage-tube Ijy Chas- saignac into surgical practice, and its adoption hy many Siu’geons in this- country, as an adjunct to the ordinary dressings of operation-Avounds, led to great improvements in the results of operations ; for hy affording a ready exit and apertiu’e of discharge for the sanies, Avhich would otherwise have been pent up, its decomposition was prevented, and all the consequent evils averted*. The drainage-tube is, as has been seen, an essential part of the “ antiseptic | method;” and its use should never he omitted, whether that treatment be adopted or not, for by it alone can the manifold evils of decomposing pent-up secretions be prevented. Inflammation of Incised Wounds.—If union by the fii’st intention fail fi-om any local or constitutional cause, inflammation takes place in and aroiuid the- wound ; the lips swell and become red ; a sero-sauguinolent discharge, gradually assuming a puriform character, exudes ; and at the same time a general febrile state sets in, attended with rise of the pulse and temperatiu-e, heat of skin, thirst, etc., which continues until suppuration is fairly established. The thermometer will always give thnely warning of the approach of this “ primary traiunatic fever ” by indicating a rise of 2° or 3° Fahr. The use of this instrument in siu’gical practice is attended with great advantage, as it is often the fii’st to mdicate the onset of some of the more serious sequelas of womids and injiu’ies. In these circmnstauces, the sutures should be immediately removed ; the strips of plaster, if their use be continued, should be used for support only, and not for union ; a thick piece of warm-water dressing shoidd be apphed, and the general condition of the patient aijpropriately treated. When granidations have sprmig up, and suppuration has fairly set in, the treatment must be con- ducted in accordance -with those general principles that guide us in the management of ulcerated surfaces Q)p. 166 eif sec[.). The suppuration must be moderated, the process of cicatrisation facilitated by the apiDlication of a bandage, the general health attended to, and the strength of the patient sup- ported. With the vicAV of stimulating the granidations to cicatrise, and to check the formation of pus, the carbolised water dressmg may be replaced by lotions of sulphate of zinc (two grains to the omice), sulphocarbolate of zinc (three or four gTains to the ounce), lime-water, etc. If any tendency to idcera- tion or formation of sloughs be met ivith, a wash of nitric acid and opium (extracti opii gr. v., acidi mtrici dil. m. x. to the ounce), or lotions of iodine, sulphite of potash, or chloride of zinc, of requisite strength ; in the latter case, the deeper parts of the Avouud should be well syringed out irith the lotion. ■VNTien the granulations are high, pale, and flabby, they shoidd be rubbed doivn Avith sulphate of copper, or touched freely Avith solid nitrate of silver. An intercuiTent attack of traumatic inflammation Avill at once put a stop to ; the process of luiioii; the parts around become swollen, hot, and painful, the formation of pus ceases, the wound is dry and augry-looking, and portions of it ah'eady healed open up once more. Hot fomentations or warm emollient iioidtices should be applied until siippinatiou is re-established, when they may ))C replaced by cooling lotions and cold compresses ; Avhen all signs ol inflam- mation have passed, the granulating surfaces may be again brought together by sutures, plasters, and bandages, Avith a view of their muting by “ secondary adhesion.” On the other hand, should the iiiflauimatioii rmi on to gangrene.