GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. lO Aviudo^re ami doors to be shut, so as to exclude the cold tlmt usuaUy accom- panies that wind, amUhus rendering the atmosphere impiue. It is impossible 0 o\ er-estimate the importance of a free supply of pure air in lessem’ng the mortality after operations, not only in hospitals, but equally in private dwellings. ^ e fact has often been observed in military practice, and the recent Franco- :<eimau 1 ai biought it into strong relief^—that those Avounded fare best Avho arc treated in open huts or tents, whilst those Avho arc placed in the apparently more favourable conditions afforded by regular houses become decimated by those scoiuges of military siugical practice, pyaemia and hospital gangTene. It is the difference in the hygienic aiTangements in dilfereut hospitals that more than any other condition influences the varying rate of mortality in difiereut institutions ; and it is obAvous that, ccuteris parilus, those ]jatients AA'iU haA’e the best prospect of recoA’ery who are most scrupulously attended to in this respect; that no cases of operation shoifld be placed ill ill-A eiitilatcd Avards, or in those that contain more than a certain percentage of patients AA'ith siipjairating wounds ; and that the performance of operations ill close and ill-ventilated rooms, or in houses situated in overcroAA^ded neigh- bom-hoods, should, as far as possible, be aA'oided. The mortality arising from inattention to these A*arious hygienic conditions is not a necessity of the operation, but rises or falls according as the circum- stances in AA'hich the jiatient is placed depart more or less Aiddely from those conditions that are necessary to the maintenance of health. It is by the induction of iiyaemia and of the erysipelatous inflammations, AAuth fcA’er of a low tyqie, that the neglect of the hygienic conditions of ojxirated patients destroys life. The pre\-alence of these diseases in an institution is the measiue of, and in direct proportion to, the neglect of the sanitary arrangements in it. These diseases are preA'entable and ought to be prevented. Surely the first and more essential requisite of a hospital should be that it is not a source of disease to its inmates—that those Avho are compelled to seek its aid do not suffer fr’om its effects. The exposiue of a patient after an operation to the contagious mnanations of septic diseases fr’oni other sick or AA'oimded patients, is attended by the most fatal consequences. WheiieA'er it is practicable, CA'ery case of septic disease, such as pytemia, erysiiielas, inflamed absorbents or veins, or hospital gangrene, should be rigorously excluded from the ward or room in AA'hich other patients Avith operation-Avounds happen to be lying ; and, if possible, the same nurses, dressers, or surgeons shoidd not be alloAved to go fr’om the infected to the healthy, nor should the same appliances, di’essings, or sponges be used for both. Great care also should be taken in the pirrification of the bedding tliat has been used by patients suffering from septic disease ; the blankets especially are apt to harbour infection long, and must be thoroughly pm'ified. EA’ory hospital Siugeon must haA’e had abundant occasion to deplore many deaths after oiAeration, arising from preA'entable causes due to AA'ant of attention to these simple precautions. 3. The Special Conditions directly excited by the Operation itself, predisposed to by the cii’ciunstances that Ave haA’c just been considering, and AA'hich commonly lead to a fatal result, of Avhich they are the inunediate occasion, are the folloAving :—Shock, Exhaustion, Hinmorriiage, Gangrene, Tetanus,