8i3 treatment of epithelioma. rtnv be "ot from the mucous membrane of the cheek or lip. They are Cei and sometimes contain more than one nucleus. In the older parts of thc'o-iwth they are usuaUy filled Avith fat-gi-anules. A\ hen an epithelioma In. nndergone ulcemtion, the surface is fr-eqiiently like iS-o-e oTanulations, and the diagnosis ot the nature of the giOAAth can oLi be made by remoAing one of them and submitting it examination. If in a simple ulcer the skin be completely destroyed epithelium is never found except at the margins; in an epitheliomatous ulcer, onti contraiy, it is found at eveiy part of the ulcerating surface. The vessels of epithelLa are abundant, but not so plentiful as those of scirrhiis or encepha^ loid Of the relation of the groAvths to the Ijm^lmtics, there is some difference of opinion. Thiersch and AValdeyer believe that they have demonstrated a lymphatic endothelium covering the cylinders of cells, and consequently beheA e that the epithelium is actuaUy Avithin lymph - spaces. The anastomosis betAveen the cancer-cylinders is said exactly to resemble that normally seen betAveen the lymph-spaces. Koster believes that the epithelium of the cancer is in reahty produced by multiplication of the lymphatic endotheliiun. Although the local characters of an epithehoma may in some cases be- distinguishable Avith difficulty from those of true cancer, there is a very important pathological difference betAveen the tAvo diseases ; for in ejiithelioma those secondary afl’ections of the Auscera Avhich are so conmion in and charac- teristic of true cancer rarely occur. When epithelioma proAPS fatal, it is usuahy by the progress of the local disease ; by its extensive ulceration ; by the contamination of the neighbouring lymphatic glands ; and by the conse- quent induction of a constitutional cachexy and malnutrition, Avith exhaustion of the system. But those secondary tumours Avhich are met Avith in the- hver, lungs, &c., indicative of a deeper contamination of the system than is shoAvn by glandular deposits, and Avhich are the characteristic and almost invariable accompaniment of other forms of cancer, seldom occur in epithe- homa. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of epithelioma fr’om the other forms of cancer is not alAvays easy. The prineipal points that should guide the Siu’geon are ; 1. The almost invariable occurrence of the epithelioma on the mucous or muco-cutaneous siu’faces. 2. Its early ulceration ; often from the Amy commencement, as the primary form of the disease. 3. The rapidity Anth Avhich ulceration foUoAvs on the neAV groAVth, so that the disease may appear to spread by ulceration rather than by new deposit, 4. The origin of the disease from some eAudent source of external irritation. 5. The absence of ah evidence of contamination of internal organs. In making the diagnosis, it must be borne in mind that scinhus, Avhen affecting the mucous or cutaneous surfaces, usuahy com- mences as a tubercle ; and that, Avhen this ulcerates, the base of the ulcer has a hard and deeply infiltrated feel, extending for some distance into the- tissues, Avhereas epithelioma is superficial, and is ulcerated rather than tuber- culatcd and infiltrated. The Prognosis of epithelioma is far more favomable than that of true cancer in any of its varieties. Treatment.—The treatment of epithelioma is much more satisfactory than that of the other varieties of carcinomatous disease Avhich aa-c have just been