INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 642 duodenum had been ruptured where uiicoyered by peritoneum, l)y a buffer- accideut ; and, in the other the rectum and meso-rcctum had been traversed by a pistol-ljall. In both these cases the emphysema was extensiA'c, the flatus having’ directly passed into the subperitoneal areolar tissue. In other cases it may in the first instance pass into the cavity of the abdomen, and render that tympanitic, and then, as in thoracic emphysema after pnemnothorax, escape- into the areolar tissue at the edges of the Avound. In a case under my obsei’A-a- tion, it occniTcd after tapping the bladder through the rectum. The flatus escaped, after the removal of the cannula on the sixth day, through the small aperture in the Avails of the gnt into the subperitoneal areolar tissue of the pelvis, thence, through the sciatic notches, doAAm the posterior and outer part of the thighs and the flanks. The diagnosis of abdominal emphysema from thoracic emphysema and from putrefactiA’e infiltration of air into the areolar tissue requires to be made. In the first case, the diagnosis may readily be effected by obsemng an absence of the signs of thoracic injury, and by the situation of the emphysema in the posterior or lateral abdominal wall, or around the lips of a Avound. From putrefactive infiltration Avith air, the abdominal emphysema is easily distin- guished by the cause, and by the absence of Ioav inflammation of the arcolar tissue. The Treatment of the various injm’ies of the abdomen that have just been described is very simple. If the symptoms indicate laceration of one of the A’iscera, little can be done during the state of collapse supervening on the accident, beyond keeping the patient quiet, and employing the means that have been recommended for lessening the effects of shock. If the patient surAuve this period, we must guard against peritonitis, and hmit, if possible, the extra- A-asation of blood into the abdomen, should there be indications of its occiuTence, by the employment of treatment that Avill presently be described. Wounds of the Diapheaom may be occasioned by stabs or by gun-shot injiUT. Sometimes, however, this muscle is perforated by the fragment of a broken rib without external Avound. The lesion, though not in itself mortal, is necessarily usually complicated with so much Ausceral injuiy as to be very generally followed by death. If the patient sm-vive, the aperture may be blocked up by a false membrane, to which the adjacent lung Avill probably adhere ; and thus the separation between the cavities of the chest and abdo- men vdll be maintained. Should this reparative action not take place, a henna protrusion of some of the abdominal viscera may take place into the pleura caAuty, as will be more fully described when we speak of ‘ Diaphragmatic Wounds of the AuDOMEN.-Wounds of the Abdominal Wall that do not penetrate the Peritoneal Cairity, if luicomphcated with intenial lujuiy, usually do well, and merely require to be treated on ordmaiy principles. It they be incised, and so extensive as to require sutures, the stitches sliould b intiDduced through the skin alone, neAm: tlnnugh miieciilar tiires, the union of which could not be eflected 111 this Aiay ; he pai ts m,pned must also be relaxed liy careful attention to position. IThe hey me tR result of gun-shot injury, they suppurate extensively, and me Aeiy sIoaa healing.