27 LOCAL AXyESTlIESIA. oTacIually pass off. Dr. Richardson has concluded from experiments on animals, that in fetal cases respiration and the heart’s action cease at the same time. In hospital practice, where time is of considerable impoidance, it has been found to be a eonvenient plan to induce amesthesia m the fu-st instance by means of bichloride of methylene, and to maintain it afterwards as long as may be necessary by chloroform. 4.,, The Treatment of the Effects arising from an Overdose of Ansesthetics is conducted on two principles 1, the establishment of respiration either natural or ai-tificial, so as to empty the lungs of the A'apom contained in the afr-cells,and to aid the oxygenation of the blood; and 2, the stmuilation of the heart’s action, and the maintenance of the circulation. The first principle of treatment—that of re-establishing respiration—is mosc serviceable in the asphyxial fonn ; the other—that of stimulating the heart— when the syncopal symptoms are present. But in all cases they may most advantageously be employed in combination. The treatment to be adopted on the occmTence of dangerous symptoms, or of aiipai-ent death from chloroform, is as follows. 1. The administration of the vapour must be at once discontinued. 2. The tongue should be seized with the fingers, or inth a hook or forceps, and drawn out of the mouth ; and the larynx pushed up so that the glottis may be opened. 3. Fresh air should be admitted to the patient by opening doors and windows, and by preventing bystanders or spectators from crowding round. 4. All constrictions should be removed fr’om the patient’s thi’oat and chest, and these parts should be freely exposed. 5. Artificial respiration must at once and without delay be set up, whilst these other measures are being canied out, either by the Siu’geon applying his mouth to the patient’s lips, and thus breathing into the chest; or, what is preferable, by the alternate and steady compression and relaxation of the walls of the patient’s chest. 6. Electricity may be applied fr’eely over the heart and diaphragm through to the spine, by means of the electro-magnetic or other convenient apparatus. 7. As aceessory means, friction of the extremities may be employed ; a little brandy rubbed inside the mouth ; and cold water dashed on the face. The nitrite of amyl would appear, from the experiments of Dabney on animals and from recent observations on man, to be an antidote to chloroform-poisoning, both in its syncopal and asphyxial forms ; the inspiration of the vapoiu’ of ten to fifteen drops of the nitrite miloading the vessels and restoring the heart’s action. Local Anaesthesia may be induced by freezing a part. This is done in two ways : 1, by the application of a freezing mixture ; 2, by the rapid evaporation of very pure ether. The application of a frigorific mixture of ice and snow, as introduced by Dr. J. Amott, may A’ery conveniently be employed in many cases in which the internal administration of anaisthetics is either inadmissible or inconvenient. It can only be produced with certainty, however, in those cases in which the incisions merely implicate the skin and subcutaneous structures, as in opening abscesses, slitting up sinuses, awdsion of toe-nails, or