SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 5o8 cases Avith Avhich I am acquainted, the thigh-bone was fractiu-ed. This accident has happened to Surgeons of such eminence as Tra\'ers, Vincent, Malgaignc, Physick of Philadelphia, to GAvynne of Brighton, to Blackman of Cincinnati, to Harris and Randolph of the Pennsylvania Hospital, to the Siu’gcons of the Ivorthem Hospital in Liverpool, and to a practitioner in London noAV hA'ing. In most of these cases the bone gave Avay at its neck or beloAV the trochanters; the dislocation was of coiu’se left unreduced, but the patients recovered Avithout difficulty, the fractime being treated in the usual Avay. The cause of the fractiu'e usually appears to have been the employment of force in a transverse or rotatory manner, after extension had been kept up for some considerable time. There is no proof that midue Auolence was used in any of these cases. It is probable that in some the femur had become Aveakened by disuse of the limb. The Complication of Fracture of the Femur with Dislocation of the Hip-joint occasions a very serious state of things, that may baffle the most skilful efforts on the part of the Siu'geon. The line of practice to be adopted must depend in a great measure on the seat of fracture. If this be situated below the middle of the thigh, the limb should be put up tightly in temporary splints, and an attempt made under chloroform to reduce the dislocation in the ordinary way by puUeys applied over the splints, or by manipulation. If the fracture be high up, near or at the neck, the patient should be put mider chloroform, and an attempt then made by pressure on the dislocated head and manipulation to replace it. It is possible that this might be effected, as in similar injuries of the humerus, AAuth comparatively httle trouble. Should reduction in this way not be practicable, w'e may adopt the plan successfully employed by Badley, who, in a lad of eighteen, with dislocation on the dorsum ilii, and fractiue of the chsplaced bone, allowed union of the fractiue to take place, and then at the end of five weeks effected reduction. Simultaneous Dislocation of both. Hips, perhaps in different directions, or of one hip AAuth fractm’e of the opposite thigh-bone, has been met with in some rare instances. Congenital Dislocation of one or both hips is occasionally seen. In these cases the spine is bent forwards in the lumbar region (lordosis): the trochanter is approached to the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; the thigh seems shortened; and the head of the bone may be felt on the dorsum fiii. The patient walks well, but Avith a peculiar rolfing motion. There is little to be done in the way of treatment beyond the use of mechanical supports. Dislocations or the Patella are not fr’equently met ivith. They may, noAvever, occm’ in foiH directions, viz., ouhvards, imvards, edgeivise or veriiccdhj, and upivards. . 1. The dislocation Outwards is the most common variety of the accident; the bone being throAAm upon the outer side of the external condyle of the femiu', ATith its axis dhected somewhat backwards and downwards, so that the inner margin is directed forwards, but sometimes the outer boiher is the more prominent. The knee is flattened in front, and is broader than usual ; the patella can be felt in its new situation, and the muscles that form the quadi’iccps extensor are rendered tense, more especially the A'astus internus ; t e eg is some times extended, but more frequently the knee is slightly flexed. ns acci en