224 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. intestines rnptured witliont any ])reach of surface. These injuries, formerly ciioneously attiibutccl to the action of the current of air set in motion by the ball, are known by the name of wind-contusions. Hubcutancous contusions of similar character, though less severe in degree, may also be produced by bullets. In some of these contusions gangrene of the limb sets in; apparently, as Guthrie has pointed out, from the rupture of the principal vessels. Cannou- shot more commonly carry away the whole thickness of a part, tearing and shattering a limb, carrying off the thick and fleshy parts of thigh, caTf, or shoulder ; or they may inflict the most fearful injuries by smashing the trunk and head. Frag-ments of shell, particularly if large, inflict wounds ecprally destructive to life and limb. A small fragment may either become lodged, or make its way out, the aperture of entry being somewhat incised, though very irregular, and the aperture of exit large and ragged. SvjrpTOMS.—The chief peculiarities of gun-shot injuries consist in the amount and character of the Pain, the severity of the Shock, the compara- tively little liability to Haemorrhage, and the severity of the Consecutive Inflammation. The Pain in gun-shot injiu’ies varies gveatly. It is most severe when a bone is fr-actured, or a large cavity penetrated ; when soft structures alone are injured, a dull and heavy sensation is experienced, which has often been com- pared to that occasioned by a blow vuth a stick. In many cases, however, the sufferer is not aware that he is shot till he is told of it. I have kunvm a person shot in the leg by a pistol-baU, and not know that he was Avoimded till told that his leg was bleeding. This is especially apt to happen when the mind is actively engaged, as in the height of battle ; no pain is experienced, and the sufferer does not know that he is wounded until he is told so, or sees the blood. Hemien has known a limb carried off or smashed to pieces by a carmon-shot, without the sufferer being conscious of it; and Macleod relates the case of an oflicer who, in the Crimea, had both legs carried away, and who was not aware of the injury till he tried to rise. In gun-shot injinles, the Shock to the Nervous System is always very gveat where parts of importance, as the head, chest, and abdomen, or large joints, as the knee, are opened ; and the severity of the shock is indicative of the amount of mischief inflicted. As has aheady been stated, the shock is more severe when a wound is inflicted by a conical bullet from a rifle, than when made by a spherical ball fr'om the old smooth-bore. Thus, if a bullet appear to have traversed the chest, but in reality has been deflected imder the skin, the com- parative absence of shock will serve, to a certain extent, to prove that risceral mischief has not been inflicted. In some cases the shock alone appears sufiicient to kill ; thus, a man shot by a pistol-bullet, which traversed the distended stomach, died in a few seconds fr’om shock, there being no bleeding of importance, or other discernible cause of immediate death (laylor). In some cases, however, that are mortal, the symptoms of shock are but slight. The Primary Hsemorrliage from gim-shot wounds varies nccessarilj according to the situation of the injiu'y and the size of the vessels injured ; cccteris paribus, these wounds bleed less than other injuries ; but in all cases a certain and in many a large and fatal quantity of blood is lost. When the