5°4 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Reduction by Manipulation iimsfc be clone as follows. Tbe limb having been flexed on the abdomen so as to bring it into a pei’pendicnlar position, must be slightly abducted so as to disengage the head of the bone. The thigh is then to be strongly rotated inwards, and adducted, the knee being earned towards the floor (Fig. 232). Reduction by Extension is to be done in the following manner. The patient is laid on his back ; the counter-extencling girth, or towel, is then placed round the pelvis and fixed firmly to a staple next to the sound side of the patient. A padded girth is then to be placed between the perinseum and the upper part of the dislocated thigh. From this, extension is made by means of the tourniquet or the pulleys, which are fixed to a staple at a little distance from the injiu’ed side of the patient. Extension having then been made to such a degree as to elevate the head of the bone from the de- pression in which it hes, the Sim- geon passes his hand behind the sound leg, and, seizing the ankle of the injined limb, presses it backwards and draws it towards the mesial fine, taking care to keep the knee straight, and thus throwing the head of the bone into the acetabifiumby the action of a long lever (Fig. 233). The following are more rare forms of dislocation downwards. The head of the thigh-bone may be thrown directly downwards, so as to rest on the lower margin of the acetaluhm, between the sciatic notch and the thyi’oid foramen. Two cases of this injiuy have been recorded by Gmmey of Camborne, and one by Luke. In it, there is less eversion of the limb than in the thyroid dislocation (Fig. 234). Bigelow has pointed out that the head of the'bone, when throivn below the lower margin of the^ acetabiilimi, may be further displaced ; either backwards on the dorsiun ihi, or forwards to the thyi-oid foramen. In extreme flexion, however, the head may pass down as far as the iuberosiiy or the ascending ramus of the ischium; in the former case the limb is everted, and in the latter inverted, and in all cases flexcc . The head of the bone may also pass into tbe pennseum, so as to be te in its abnormal situation behind the scrotum. It has been ^ the urethra, and thus give rise to retention of urine. The thigh is extreme y abducted and stands out at a right angle with the body ; anc e ocs may Fig. 233.—EecUietion of Dislocation into Obtm-ator Foramen l)y Extension.