INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 558 of tliosc in which the skull is fractured without that organ being injured. Indeed, when Ave reflect on the great vascularity of the parts Avithin the skidl, the lai'ge sinuses, the numerous arteries that ramify both within the hones and at the base of the brain, and the close vascular netAvork extended over the surface of this organ, avo can easily understand that extravasation of blood is one of the most frequent complications of these injuries and a common cause of death, when they terminate fatally at an early period after their occurrence. Causes.—^Intracranial extravasation of blood may take place either with or AAuthout fr'acture of the skuU. When it is the result of fr’acture, it is in conse- quence of the Assure tearing across one of the meningeal arteries distributed on the inside of the skull, or of a fragment of bone Avounding a sinus or the vascular network on the surface of the brain ; or it may proceed from lacera- tion of this organ breaking doAvn its capillary structm’e. Irr other cases, as in gunshot wourrds, the hremonfrage may be a conseqrrence of wormd of the vessels by the buUet or other foreign body; brrt rt may also be the result of apparently trifling injuries of the head A\dthout bruise or wound ol scalp, or fractrrre of skuU, from the rupture by conerrssion of one of the menmgeal Situations.—The extravasation may occur rn four srtuatrons: 1. ■•^^^een the drrra mater and the skrdl, Avhere it is most cominonly met wrth ; 2. Withm the cavity of the arachnoid ; 3. Upon the surface of the brarn ; or, 4. Wrthur its substance and its nentricles. It is nsnady most considerable when ponred out upon the dura mater, or within the cavity of the arachnoid at the base of the brain. It is in smallest quantity immediately on the Biirface of that or„a , or within its substance. It is, however, seldom found m the the result of violence, without being met with ^tra clot eflused in any one case seldom exceeds fom onnees. I have once seen a c ot SS niptm/of the middle memngeal sutery that half; and, when in such tege quantity, it usually proceeds ftom luptiiie ‘\3-CLsation of blood is one of the death in iniuries of the head, by inducing pressm-e on the biain and coma. The blood that is extravasated usually coagulates mto “ ™ There can be no doubt, however, that extravasation of ^ ” branes of the brain fteqiiently occurs without , sequences. The blood that is so extravasated 1. The extravasated blood maybe absorbec en r y , -• px-,ff colormed clot, and coloin-ing matter may be “a" which may eventually become organrsed ; ^ aisintegrated blood, become consohdated, whilst the J’j.- py no mearrs very Symptoms.—The symptoms 0 ex ra-Vc ^ stages Avith symptoms clear ; tog those of compression, assocrated ^ indicative of laceratron ot the brarn, and, ^ _ P complications, the erreephahtis occur in more specral symptoms ot compress two ways. «Ho-cs • viz., concussiorr, a return In the first variety there are three drstnrct stages ,