ERYSIPELAS OF THE HEAD. 701 Local Treatment is precisely of the same kiiul as that adopted in phlegmonous erysipelas, exeept that the ineisions require to be made eaidier and perhaps more freely ; in all other respects, there is no difference between the general management of the two forms of the disease. Special Forms of External Erysipelas.—Erysipelas of Newly bom Infants is occasionally met with, more particularly in lying-in hospitals, or in situations where the mother and child are exposed to depressing causes of disease. It usually appears a few days after the birth, at first about the abdomen and genitals, and soon spreads over the whole of the body, being- characterised by a dusky redness, which rapidly runs into gangrene of the affected tissues. It has been supposed to arise from inflammation of the mnbilical vein, or of the umbilicus itself. It is extremely fatal, mnng to the feeble vitality of the child, and ptresents but few points for treatment; change of air and of nursing, Avith the administration of a feiv di-ops of spirits of ammonia or brandy from time to time, being aU that can be done. Erysipelas of the Orbit may occur primarily, or as the result of extension of the disease from the neighbouring structiu-es. It is dangerous, and often fatal from encephalitis. It commences Avith a violent deep-seated pain at the base of the orbit ; the conjunctiva becomes injected and ecchymosed, the eye- lids are gpeatly sAvollen, red, and oedematous ; the eyeball protrudes, and vision is impaired or altogether lost. Symptoms of cerebral inflammation now set in, and the patient becomes dehrious and often sinks comatose. The Treatment consists in fomentations, with early and free incisions into the orbit, made by pushing a lancet flat-Avise between the eyeball and the orbital walls, through the inflamed conjunctiva, the eyelids having prcAdously been everted. In this way inflammatory effusions and pus may be evacuated. Destructive abscesses of the orbit, possibly of an erysipelatous origin, occa- sionally occur in the puerperal state, requiring, when practicable, the fr-ee evacuation of the pus, in the way just mentioned. Phlegmonous Erysipelas of the Head is of very fr-equent occurrence from slight injimies or operations about the scalp and face, more particularly in elderly people and those of unhealthy constitution. In this form of erysipelas there are two special sources of danger ; one is sloughing of the occipito- frontalis muscle, the other, inflammation of the membranes of the brain. The occipito-frontalis muscle rarely sloughs, except in cases of traumatic erysipelas of the head. It then loses its vitality in consequence of the sup- pm-ation of the deep plane of areolar tissue lying betAA^een it and the cranium, and encephalitis occurs apparently by the extension of the inflammation inwards. The Prognosis of erysipelas of the head Avill often greatly depend upon its origin—Avhether traumatic or idiopathic. When arising fr-om Avound, it is very commonly fatal; Avhen it is idiopathic, it is very seldom indeed foUoAved by death. This difference in the termination of the tAvo varieties of the disease is OAving, I believe, to the great tendency to suppm-ation and deep slouo-hiuo- of the scalp in cases of Avound, and the infrequency of this occuiTence when there is no breach of surface. In the Treatment of this affection, active means are more fr-eqiiently required than in the management of other forms of erysipelas. But in very many.