BULLET-WOUND OF KNEE-JOINT. Ijone into the articulation, are necessarily most serious. If they be left to |)alliati^•e treatment, the death of the patient may be eonsidered as almost dtable ; if amimtation at the hip be performed, tlie prospect is better ; and, . , , , , 1 _ - I, . 1 1 1 „ mu:„ ,—11 inevi .though desperate, the case must not be eonsidered as hopeless. This is Avell illustrated by the result of amputations in the great war of the American Rebellion (p. 105). In Primary amputations at the hip-joint for gun-shot injuiy, .the mortality was, according to one estimate, 94, according to another, and I think more coirect, 84 per cent. All Ijitermedkde amputations were fatal, the Secondary ones only at the rate of 77 per cent. If the shaft be not too much implicated, it is probable that the best hope lies in the excision of the splintered bone, and the careful removal of the loose fragments. This operation, origin- 4illy proposed by Guthrie, and first successfully performed by O’Leary in the LVimean Avar, presents the most reasonable, though but a slender, hope of safety ±0 the patient, and should accordingly be practised. With this Anew the wound must be laid freely open, loose fragments extracted, and the upper end of the bone detached, turned out, and sawn off. Of six cases in AAfrich this was done in the Crimea, one patient, O’Leary’s, recoA’ered. Bullet-Avounds of the Icnee-joint are amongst the most serious injiu’ies in .surgery; and this AALether the bones be much comminuted or not, ^u’OA’ided the epiphysis of the tibia or femiu’ be perforated, or the articulation be fairly traversed or even penetrated by the ball. Prior to the American AA’ar there AA’ere but scA'en cases in AA^hich excision of the knee had been done for gun-shot iujiuy—five in military, two in civil practice ; the two latter cases recovered, the other five died. In the American war the operation Avas done eleA'en times : in tAvo cases, one primary, the other secondary, recoA'ery took place ; nine deaths resulted, chiefly fr’om pyemia. In three cases in which the patella alone Avas excised, death ensued. During the late war the results of excision ot the knee, both primary and secondary, ha\'e been so uniformly bad that the ■operation for the futme Avill probably be abandoned in military surgery. The npeiation Avould be doubtless advisable in cases of gun-shot Avoiuids of the knee occiUTing in ciA'il practice, where every possible care and attention can be bestoAved ujAon the after-treatment, hygienic conditions, and diet of the patient; but AA'here this is impossible, as after a great battle, it is almost ■ceitainly fatal, contrasting most unfaA'ourably with primary amputation in the lower third of the thigh. When amputation is determined on, the operation requires to be performed early, not because the apparent injury may 3C A cry seA ere, or the mutilation of the limb so great as obviously and im- pciatiAely to call for inmiediate amputation, but because experience has shoAAii t at, unless the limb be remoA’ed at an early period, after-consequences of the most serious and fatal character aaiU to a certainty ensue. ExtensiA'c suppura- lon of the joint, deep and large abscesses burroAving amongst the muscles of e t igh, and consequent exhaustion of the patient by hectic, or his destruc- lon by pya3inia, ai’c the conditions that amputation, performed at an early s age, can alone^ avert. Tins necessity for early amputation in penetratino- u c -wounds of the knee-joint is recognised by all modern military Suro-eon^ u rie aiid Lamy in the French Avars, Esmarch and Stromeycr in the the campaign, and the Surgeons in the Crimea, all found that attempt to save a limb so injm-cd led to the sacrifice of the patient’s life