OLD DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 489 lateral aiio-ular splints, the hand being kept semi-prone. If the radius have been displaced, a pad should be apphed over its head, so as to prevent a retmn of the displacement, which is very apt to occur when the orbicular lipauaent m torn In the case of dislocation of the radiushowever, reduction is best maintained by placing the arm in the extended position, and applpng a straio-ht splint, well padded, along the pahnar aspect of the limb, dhe lu- flamSiation which usually results must be combated by the free applications ot leeches and of evaporating lotions. When this has subsided, passive motion may be commenced, and frictions and douches employed, so as to remove the stitfness that is apt to be left about the joint. In those cases in which the dislocation is complicated with fractoe of some part of the articular ends, and in ivhich the diagnosis of the precise nature 01 the injury, owing to the swelling or other causes, has not been very clearly made out, the joint should be placed in as good a position as possible, by a process of traction, flexion, and moulding, so as to bring the osseous points into proper bearing with one another; the angular splints must then be applied and local antiphlogistic treatment employed. At the end of a month or five weeks passive motion may be commenced, lest permanent rigidity come on, which is very apt to siipeiwene. Compound Dislocations of the Elbow are always very serious injuries. In their treatment, the Siu’geon will usually have to decide between resection of the articular ends of the displaced bones and amputation of the arm. He will be guided in his course by the amount of mischief done to the soft parts. If these be simply lacerated over the posterior aspect of the joint the dislo- cation, when compound, being almost invariably backwards—the wound may be enlarged, and the articular ends removed. Should the soft structures be extensively contused and torn, the brachial artery or the median nerve injured, and the bones fractmed as well as dislocated, amputation wifi, be the safer course. In determining on the hue of practice, however, the Surgeon will be guided by the considerations stated at p. 416, in reference to compound fracture of this joint. In some instances recovery has taken place with a very useful limb, even after severe compound dislocation of the elbow-joint, com- plicated with rupture of the brachial artery. Old-standing Dislocations of the Elbow are reduced with much difficulty in all cases in Avhich the ulna is coulpletely displaced ; this is owing rather to the interlocking of the irregular articular siu’faces and to the formation of adhesions in the torn capsule and around the displaced bones, than to muscular contraction. The tendoii of the triceps, and even that of the biceps, has been divided in some of these cases of old-standing dislocation of the elbow, in order to facilitate reduction. In those instances in which I have done this operation or seen it adopted, but little, if any, good has resulted ; and I have known troublesome sloughing to ensue. As a general rule, I believe that it will be found extremely difficult, even under anaesthesia and with the aid of the pulleys, to reduce an ulna that has been completely dislocated for more than a month. When the ulna is only partially dislocated, even though the radius be completely displaced, reduction may be efl'ceted without much diffi- culty at a much later period—it is said, as late as two years after the but here the difficulty is not to effect but to maintain the reduction accident