2t>(3 JXJUIUES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. udhcsivc iiifliunmiitioii may ensue some days after the aeeideiit. Tims, a patient was admitted into University College Hospital under Mr. Quain, Avith a eontused Avoimd in the axilla, received in falling upon some ii’on railings ; no change took place in the circulation of the arm for tAvo days, AAdien pulsation in the radial artery ceased, the injured a'CsscI having CA idcntly become plugged by plastic deposit. Rupture and Laceration.—An artery may lic torn either partially or completely across. When Partial Rupture occurs, the iutenial and middle coats only give way, the toughness of the external coat preventing its laceration. This accident is especially apt to occur in consecpience of bloAvs or strains upon diseased or Aveakened vessels, and thus may possibly lay the foundation for dissecting and other aneurisms. In other cases, the niptmed portion of the coats becomes tinned down into the inside of the vessel, and, acting as a A'alve, prevents the finther progress of the blood through it, thus gi\-ing rise to gangrene of the limb. In .some cases the partially ruptincd vessel becomes blocked up by plastic matter, occluding its interior, but without producing gangrene. The Complete Rupture of an ai’tery may occur either in an open wound or under the integuments. When an artery is torn across in an open wound, as in the aAvdsion of a limb by machinery, or by a cannon-shot, there is usually but little hmmorrhage, even from arteries of the magnitude of the axillary or the femoral, and though the A^essel hang out of the Avound, pulsating to its very end. The absence of bleeding is oAAung to the internal and middle coats, AiUich are fragile, breaking off short and contracting someAAdiat ; while the external coat and the sheath of the vessel, being elastic, are dragged doAim and twisted OA'er the torn end of the artery, so as comjiletely to prevent the escape of blood. When the laceration of the artery is subcutaneous, as occasionally happens in the attempted reduction of an old dislocation of the shoulder, either extensive extravasation, or one or other of the A'arieties of Traumatic AnouTtsm, to be described in Chapter XV., page 313, may be produced. "Wounds of Arteries, Avhether pimctined or cut, may be dmded into those that do not penetrate into the interior of the vessel, and those by Avhich it is completely laid open. Non-penetrating Wounds of arteries are very rare. Guthrie, however, relates the case of a gentleman Avho cut his throat, and in Avhom the carotid artery was exposed and notched through the external and middle coats only ; the vessel finally gave way on the eighth day, death ensuing. A case has also occiured at the London Hospital, in Avhich a suicidal Avoimd of the throat had exposed the carotid artery. After death, it was foiuid that the nmer and middle coats of the vessel had been dmded by the pressure of the knife, AALich ■ was blunt, but that the external coat had been left entire, and under this a dissecting anem’ism was found. In Penetrating Wounds of an artery, there is always haimorrhage ot an arterial character, imless the puncture be so fine as to be closed by the mere elasticity of the coats of the vessel. Thus, l\Iaisomieuve has shown that an artery may be punctured with a fine needle, without any haimorrhagc or othci unfavourable event resulting. If, hoAvever, the puncture be aigci lan is,