3H TliA UMAT 10 ANEUlilSM. ami so mi-fluctuating, or Imviiig an impulse communicated to it by tbe sulijacent artery. In those cases also in which the artery is torn completely across, or in whicli the ethised blood coagulates A'ery rapidly, the ordinary aneurismal bruit and pulsation may bo very obscure or cpiite absent. In such cases, the diagnosis of the true nature and gravity of the tumour may usually bo made by observing that the pulse in the arteries at a lower point is absent, and that there is great oedema of the limb. These tumom-s, if left to themselves, rarely undergo spontaneous cure, but they either increase in size imtil the integument covering them sloughs and ruptures, or the external wound, which has been temporarily plugged by coagu- lum, gives way ; or else they inflame and suppui'ate, pointing at last, like an abscess, and, on biu-sting, giving rise to a sudden gush of blood, whieh may at once, or by its rapid recurrence, prove fatal. In some cases a subcutaneous breach is made in the coagulated and plastic boundary, and, the blood becoming infiltrated into the areolar tissue, syncope, gangrene, and death follow. Treatment.—The treatment must be conducted on precisely the sajne plan as that of an mjm’ed artery communicating with an external w'oimd ; the only difference being that, in the case of the diffused traumatic aneurism, the aper- ture in the artery opens into an extravasation of blood instead of upon the surface. We must especially be upon our guard not to be misled by the term aneurism, and not to attempt to treat the condition, resulting from wound or subcutaneous laceration, by the means that we employ with success in the management of aneinism proper. In a pathological aneinism the blood is con- tained within a sac, which, as wiU hereafter be shown, is essential for the process of em’e of the disease. In the diffused traumatic aneinism there is no sac, properly speaking; and hence these changes to which a sac is necessary cannot take place. I doubt whether there is a case on record in which the Hunterian operation for aneurism, applied to the condition now imder consideration, has not terminated in danger or death to the patient, and in grievous disappoint- ment to the Surgeon. The proper treatment of diffused traumatic aneurism consists in laying open the tiunour by a stroke of the scalpel, removing the coagida, dissecting oi rather clearing out the artery, and hgatining it above and below the wound in it. This operation, easy in description, is most difiicidt and tedious in practice. The bleeding is often profuse ; the cavity that is laid open is large^ rao-ged, and partially filled with coagula ; it is often ivith much difficulty that the artery is foimd under cover of these, and in the midst of infiltrated and disorganised tissues ; and when it is found, it is not always easy to get a ligature to hold. It will be convenient to divide this operation into two stages l..Exposing the artery ; 2. Passmg the ligatime. First Stage.—The artery must, if at all practicable, be thoroug y com- pressed between the tumoim and the heart by a tourniquet, or by the hand ot an assistant. If it can be so commanded, the diffiised aneimsin may be at once and freely laid open ; but if not, the Surgeon must proceed ^^^oie cau- tiously. He must make a small aperture in the most prominent part of he tumour, and introduce two of the fingers of the left hand so as P ^ ' wound in the integuments, and prevent the escape of _ > time feeling for the opening in the artery, and pressing is u^ei ve up