GENERAL RE2IARKS ON OPERATIONS. 20 chlorofoiin must be given sparingly, and when it beeomes stertorous it should be discontinued entirely. In this state, the inhalation of a small additional quantity of this potent agent, the application of the vapour in too concentrated a state, or the sudden raising up of the patient, might occasion death from paralysis of the heart. If the inhalation of chloroform have been suspended, great care should be taken when its administration is recommenced, lest the already enfeebled heart be entirely overpowered by the influence of too large a volume of vapour suddenly given in a concentrated form. It should be borne in mind tliat it is not necessary in all operations to administer chloroform to the same extent. In all the greater operations, as amputations, lithotomy, and the hgatime of arteries, enough should be given to completely paralyse muscular movement, as well as to suspend seusibihty and consciousness. In operations for hernia, also, and aU other proceedings implicating the abdominal walls, if complete muscular relaxation be not induced, great inconvenience and not a httle danger may result. So, also, in very painfid operations about the anus and genital organs, a full dose of chloroform should be given. But for the removal of many tumours about the trunk, or in many of the minor operations on the extremities and about the head and face, mhscular relaxation is not so necessary ; and it udU be snffi- cient to give enough chloroform merely to suspend seusibihty and consciousness to pain. In certain diseased conditions of the system the administration of chloroform requires much care ; but, as a general rule, it may be stated that, whenever the constitutional disease has not advanced to such a degree as to contraindicate an operation, chloroform may be given. In the early stages of phtliisis it may usually be safely inhaled ; but in some cases of bronchial iiritation, the vapoim is apt to produce troublesome cough. When the heart is diseased, great caution is necessary, more particularly Avhen its muscular substance has undergone fatty degeneration ; the sedatnu mfluence of the chloroform being apt, in these circumstances, to produce a sudden depression or airest of the heart’s action. In many, perhaps the majority, of the cases of death from chloroform, the fatal event has been traced to this cause. In valvular disease of the heart, I believe that it may be more safely given. In persons who are epileptic, and in those who suffer from congestion of the brain, it requires to be cautiously adminis- tered, as in the early stages of anaesthesia much cerebral excitement is apt to be evinced. In hysterical subjects, chloroform is said to induce a tendency to laryngeal spasm. The most dangerous condition in uhich to administer ■chloroform is that in Avhich, in consequence of renal disease, the blood is loaded Avith urea ; in such cases epileptiform couAudsions are readily induced, with hvidity of the face, and a tendency to stertor and coma. Should chloroform, or any anassthetic, be given in operations rendered neees- sary by severe injiu’ies, duriny the period of the continuance of the shock of the accident, as in primary amputations ? In such circumstances, its use has been objected to on the ground that it would act injuriously by still further loA\er- ing the already depressed vital powers ; and that the paiir ol the operation, if performed Avithout it, Avould prove a good stimulant, and thus serve to rouse the patient. But Avould this really be so ? Is the pain of an operation a