220 GUN-SJrOT WOUNLS. pomlor may bo dviven into or even through the skin by that Avhich is exploded behmd it. Tn this Avay, A-ery troulilesome and disfiguring marks are sometimes inflicted on the face, and other parts of the body, by the cliarcoal of the poAvder lodging in the slan. That a Aveapon so charged may actually kill Avheii discharged at a little distance, appears from a case related by Dupuytrcn, in Avhich a foAvling-piece charged Avith poAAxIcr only, and fired at the distance of tAvo or three feet from the abdomen, pierced the beUy Avith a round hole and killed the man. The mere force of the explosion Avill sometimes produce serious lacerations. Suicides occasionally forget to put a bullet into the pistol, and firing into their mouths, bloAv open the cheeks, and injure the phaiynx and glottis by the ex- plosive force. Some years ago, a man Avas brought to University College Hospital, Avho had discharged some poAvder from the tube of an Italian iron into bis mouth, and died in consequence of the injiuies he received. In another case in the same Institution, a man died on the fifth day after firing a pistol into his mouth, of asphyxia, occasioned by sloughing of the pharynx and in- flammation of the glottis and larynx, consequent on the scorch of the explosion. Wadding and soft materials, as pieces of clothing, AviU occasionally inflict serious Avomids by the force Avith Avhich they are driven. These injuries often happen on the stage, at revieAVS, fairs, &c, Taylor relates several instances of the kind :—one of a girl killed by a gun charged Avith paper pellets ; also, one of a man Avho Avas killed by a kid glove fired from a blunderbuss. Small shot often inflict serious injuries, and these are most commonly met Anth in civil practice. If the person wounded be Avithin a feAV feet of the muzzle of the gun, a terribly torn and lacerated Avound, of a very serious character, even Avorse than that occasioned by a bullet, Avill be inflicted ; for the shot, not being scattered, are driA^en through the body in a comparatively compact mass, and tear the tissues to a great extent. The compactness of a charge of shot Avhen striking close to the muzzle of the gun may be A’eiy remarkable, making a AA'^oimd like that of a bullet. A lad Avas admitted into University College Hospital imder my care, Avho had accidentally shot himself in the ann. The Avhole charge had passed fr’om before backAvards betAveen the brachial vessels and plexus of nerves and the skin of the inner sides of the arm, leaving a bridge of skin about three inches in Avidth and the vessels and nerves uninjined, the triceps, hoAvever, being torn. The patient made an excellent recovery. When shots scatter as they fly, they produce at a greater distance a less serious injury, usually lodging in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, Avhere they may remain for years, requiring to be picked out Avith a lancet; or they may give rise to suppuration. Occasionally, shot, by penetrating an important part, may cause serious or fatal results ; thus, a single shot penetrating the eyeball AviU destroy vision ; or, lodging in the heart or in the femoral vein or other large A'essel, may give rise to rapidly fatal results. A patient aaus once brought to University College Hospital, Avho had fired a pocket-pistol loaded Avith small shot into his mouth ; after death, the shots Avere found to have penetrated the anterior portion of the vertebral column, in AA^hich they Avero deeply lodged. Splinters of shells inflict grave injury; as also do those of metal, wood, or stone, canled by the force of the explosion, as in blastuig and mining