652 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. coA’cred itsell ■with a new integument, which speedily assmncd the soft and supple character natural to the skin of these parts. \\ hen tlie penis is more deeply ^voinided, there are two special sources of dangei, Aiz., hcumorrhage, and wound of the urethra. The hajinoi’rhage is usually Ti'cry profuse. If it proceed from a distinct arterial trunk, such as the dorsal artery or that of a corpus caTernosnm, the vessel must be ligatured. If it occur from general oozing fr-om the vascular tissues of the penis, it may be arrested by cold, pressure, or astringents. Pressure is best applied by passing a large catheter into the bladder, and then compressing the organ against this by means of a narrow bandage or circular strip of plaster. Injury of the genital organs by self-mutilation in cases of sexual mania or melancholia is occasionally met with. In some cases the patient has cut ofi‘ one testis; in others, the penis; in others, again, the Avhole of the external sexual organs. Injuries such as these present no very special character, and require to be treated on ordinary principles, the great point being of course to restrain the haemorrhage and to prevent contraction of the urethral orifice. Urethra.—Woimds of the Urethra by gun-shot injiny, or sharp instru- ments, is a troublesome accident, on account of the liability to the infiltration of urine and ultimately to fistula. It may be recognised by the escape of blood from the meatus, and of mine from the Avound. The Treatment consists in the introduction of a gum catheter, which should be tied in ; and if the edges of the wound be clean cut, they may be brought together by inter- rupted sutures. Laceration of the Urethra is immediately attended by most serious symptoms, and remotely followed by most disastrous consequences. It A'ery frequently occurs in men employed in building, from slipping in Avalkiug across an unfinished floor, in such a Avay as to fall heaUly astride upon one of the joists, thus bruising the perineum and rupturing the urethra and other struc- times lying under the rami and symphysis of the os pubis. The same accident may arise in other Avays. Thus I haA’e met Avith it in a farrier, kicked in the perincerrm whilst shoeing a horse ; and it has been met with as a consequence of laceration by a splinter of bone from a fr'acture of the ramus of the os pubis. In these injuries the integrrments are usually untorn, but deeply ecchymosed. The extravasation of blood is often considerable, extending into the scrotum, Avhich rapidly swells up and becomes black. It may, indeed, be very serioi^ arising in some cases from the lacerated structiu’es and the torn superficial or transverse arteries of the perinaeiun; in other instances from the corpus spongiosimr, the brrlb, or the artery of the bulb. In all cases of lacerated urethra, blood will drip from the orifice; and, if the bulb and its arteries have been torn, the haemon-hage fr'om these may be very great, a pint or more of blood being thus rapidly lost, in addition to great accimiulations in the perimEiun and scrotum, distending these parts with coagula and infiltration. , In consequence of the intemiption in the continuity of the canal and tlic compression or plugging of the torn part by the coagida of the extravasatod blood, the urine cannot be voided and the bladder gradually fi s. 'C