377 COMPLICATED FRACTURES. Sui-<^eon, as it becomes jieccssaiy to reduce the dislocated joint before the frac- ture is consolidated. In several instances of this description which ha-s'e fallen under my care, I have succeeded in reducing the dislocation at once, by putting- up the limb very tightly in wooden splints, so as to give a degree of solidity to it, and to permit the lever-like movement of the shaft of the bone to be em- ployed ; and then, putting the patient under chloroform, I have replaced the boim without much difficulty. Should the Surgeon have omitted to reduce the dislocation in the first instance, he must wait until the fracture has become firmly united, and then, putting the limb in splints or in starch, he may try to effect rediTction, which, however, will then be very difficult. The fracture in a limb which is the seat of an old Unreduced Dislocation is necessarily of veiy rare occun-ence, but occasions no serious difficulty in diagnosis or treatment. I once srav and treated successfully with Dr. Bryant a case of this kind in the person of an old gentleman who, falling on the ice, frac timed the left humerus, which had been the seat of an um-educed dislocation forwards for more than fifty years. The e.xistence of an Ankylosed Joint in a fractured limb gives but little trouble, beyond the necessity of modifying the splints in such a way as to fit the shape of the limb. I have treated ft-actiu’es of the thigh, leg, and arm in such circumstances with perfect success, by adapting the splints to the angle formed by the stiffened joint. Fracture of a bone into the Site of an Excised Joint presents no pecu- liarity of importance. I have met with it in the humerus at the elbow, and have treated the case as one of ordinary fracture of the epiphysis. Fracture of the bone in the Stump of an Amputated Iiimb is a rare accident. I have twice had such cases under my care ; once in a man, and another time in a woman, each of whom fr-actured the femur low down in a limb which had been amputated below the knee. There was no displacement of the fractured bone in either case, showing the influence of the weight of the limb in addition to muscular contraction in occasioning displacement of the lou er fragment. In each case the accident was the consequence of a fall, and union readily took place imder the starched bandage. In cases of simple fracture occiuTing in the neighbourhood of, or implicating laige joints, passive motion is very commonly recommended at the end of from foui to six weeks ; I think, however, iifith Vincent, that this is often apt to do moie harm than good, and is seldom required, the natural action of the muscles of the part being fully sufficient to restore the movements of the articulation, with the assistance of fr-iction and douches. A“iputation is but veiy seldom required in simple fractures, and I have never had occasion to practise it. Yet, in cases of very extensive and severe comminuted simple fi-acture of the lower end of the femur, or of the upper part of the bones of the leg, with implication of the knee-joint and injury to ^ e popliteal or tibial arteries, as indicated by the cessation of pulsation in the ■vesse s of the foot, removal of the limb might be proper, in order to save the pa lent from gangrene or diffused traumatic aneurism. But it is only when e mam artery has been injured by spicula of fractured bone, that such iractures inll require amputation. I have had under my care a man in whom the condyles of both femora and the left patella were crushed into