dislocations. 45S between 80 and 4r>, and « between 4o and 85. They are necessarily far more common in nmn than in women, from the natime of their respective occnpatioiis. Ihus, according to Hamilton, of 115 dislocations of the hip, only 11 occuiTcd m women. I m articular ends of the bones of the extremities arc kept in their proper iwsitions by the arrangement of the osseous and ligamentous structures of the joints, aided by the continuous tension of the muscles. Considerable external violence may thus be applied to a limb Avithout dislocating it. If, hoAvever, the muscles be taken by siu-prise, or if they have been Aveakened by previous injiuy of any kind, the joint becomes predisposed to dislocation, and may be displaced imder the influence of A^ery slight causes; especially if it be one Avhere the articulating smface is shallow and the ligaments are comparatively Aveak. In this Avay the same joint may be repeatedly dislocated. Thus I have seen a man whose humerus had been dislocated between forty and fifty times, OAAflug to a Aveakened state of the deltoid. The Direct Causes of Dislocation are external violence and muscular action. External violence may act directly upon a joint, forcing or twisting tbe articular ends asunder, as happens Avhen the foot is displaced by a twist of the ankle, or when the thumb is dislocated backwards by a blow. But more commonly the force acts at a distance from the joint that is displaced, and the head of the bone is thi’OAvn out of its socket by “ the lever-like moA’ement of the shaft,” as happens when the head of the humerus is dislocated by a fall on the hand, or when the head of the femm* is dislocated. Muscular action alone may cause the dislocation of a bone, CA'en though the part be previously in a somid state. Thus, the loAver jaAv has been dislocated by excessiA'c gaping, and the humerus by making a violent muscular effort. If the joint have already been AA'eakened bypreAdous injmy or disease, muscular action is especially apt to occasion its displacement. Congenital dislocations, in aU probabihty, arise fr'om irregular muscular contractions in the foetus, by which the bones are displaced, and the normal development of the joint is interfered AAuth. In dislocations of the orbicular joints, after the head of the bone has been thi'OAAm out of its articular caA’ity, it is often stiU fm-ther dis- jDlaced by the contraction of the muscles, AA'^hich continues until they have shortened themselves to their frfll extent, or imtil the dislocated bone comes into contact with some osseous prominence that prevents its fm’ther displacement. Signs.—The existence of a dislocation is rendered evident by the change in the shape of the jomt, and in the relation of the osseous prominences to one another : by the articular end of the displaced bone being felt in a iibaa' position ; and by an alteration in the length of the limb, and in the direction of its axis. Besides this, there are after a time, if not immediately on the occiuTence of the accident, impaired motion, both acth'e and passfr’e, of the injured articulation, and pain in and around it. It should, hoAvever, be borne in mind that fractime may exist with the dislocation ; hence the mobility may be increased. Effects.—The effects of dislocation on the structm’e of a joint are ahvays serious. The bones are not uufrequently fr’actimed as aa'cII as displaced, more jiarticularly in hinge-joints : the cartilages may be injured ; and the ligaments are ahvays much stretched and more or less torn, the capsule ot the joint suffer-