S GENERAL REALARKS ON 0PERA2L0AIS. • f ■'“T’,'"® cii-cumBtanccs mito iihicli, IB pertormcd-whethcr it is dcio in a private lioiK, where the patient may bo isolated, fined il-om the ohaiice of all eoiitamiiiatioii, and BuiTomided by every military precaution; or in a hospital, where he must necessarily be exposed to emanations possibly of a septic and infections character from other patients, where the building may be impregnated by the exhalations fr-om generations of sick and injiu-ed, and where sanitary measiu-es may be neutralised by the conditions generated by a A-ast assemblage of sick under one roof. Then, again, the circumstances in Avhich a patient is placed after an operation for an accident of civil life are necessarily very different from those that sm-round one Avho is exposed to the peculiar perils that are necessaiily connected vdth mih'tary hospitals and ambulances in time of active war, and which Avill be more frilly described in the chapter on Gunshot-wounds. Ill private practice, ill residts may follmv operations fr-om thi-ee different causes, viz.: self-infection of the patient, in consequence of the retention of decomposing and putrescent secretions in the wound ; comcyauce of infection by the Surgeon ; and general faulty sanitary aiTangements of the house. In hospital practice these different somces of danger must necessarily exist to the same if not to a gTeater extent than in priA'ate. In hospital, however, just as in jlrivate practice, these particular dangers are all preventable, and disease of a septic character ought not to be allowed to generate itself thi’oiigh their medium. The frequency of such an occiuTence is in the direct ratio of the want of hygienic attention bestowed upon the patient. But in addition to these causes of disease, there exists in hospitals one special som’ce of danger Avhich leads to the excessive mortality that up to a recent period has iirevailed in most of these institutions, and ivhich unfortiuiately is still alloived to be prevalent in some. This danger results from the accumulation of large numbers of sick and injured people in one building. Tyndall has shown that the atmosphere is loaded with minute particles of organic matter in a state of suspension. Other observers have proved microscopically that these particles A'ary under different conditions, and consist of the detritus of the solid materials that frmu’sh them—neces- sarily varying in its composition according to the source whence it is de- rived. Parkes, who has examined the air of crowded buildings, such as militaiy hospitals, baiTacks, &c., finds that it contains large quantities of epithelium from the skin and i^erhaps the mouth. He states that all the specific diseases may be caused by the presence of organic impurities floating in the air, and that whether these exist in the form of impalpable powder of moist or dried epithelium, or pus-ceUs, is a matter for futine inquiry.* These are either absorbed by the liuigs and skin, or the pulmonary and cutaneous sinfaces are luiable to set free their excreta in an atmosphere ah-eady surcharged ; the blood becomes thereby vitiated, and Ioav, difPuse, or erysipelatous inflannnations of all kinds, with pytemia, sej)ticcemia, or sloughing phagedtena, are the necessary consequences. In fact, these diseases may, if the term is allowable, be manufactured in any hospital or house, howcA'cr clean and well situated, by the accumulation Avithin it of too large a number of patients suffering fr-om suppurating wounds. * “ Maimal of Practical Hygiene,” pp. 88, 00, 100. 1809.