SYMU’S A3IFUTATI0K 83 {ivoiclcd readily cnongli -n-lien the soft structures in this situation are gi*eatly i i j i I 1 f I j I 1 1 i thickened and infiltrated by plastic matter, as the result of chronic disease ; but, if the operation be required for injiny of the foot, gi-eat care is required in digging out the heel, the integuments at the posterior part of the os calcis being very thin and adherent to the bone. It is also of importance that the incision across the heel should be canied Avell back over its pomt (Fig. 49). Unless this be done, a large cup-shaped flap ■will be left, in ■which blood and pus -will accumulate, and the cicatiisation of the stump ■will be much retarded. As imion takes place by granulation, there ■will be a tendency to bagging in the stump ; but this may be prevented by proper bandaging. The tendency to sloughing and to undue sup- piu’ation chiefly occurs in those cases in ■ft'hich the amputation has been performed .. „ , „ fig. 48.—Sjmie’s Amputation of tlie foot, as a prnuary operation for a crush of the Anterioi' incision and flisarticAation. foot. In one case in ■which I had occasion to perform it for an injuiy of this kind, a good deal of trouble resulted from this cause, though eventually the case did perfectly well, and the j)atient now walks with scarcely any difficulty. It has been frequently stated that it is necessary, in order to ensure the vitality of the flap, to cut the posterior tibial artery “ as long as possible,” and it is this as much as anything that has led to the production of the huge cup-shaped flaps which are so difiicult to dissect off the os calcis and which so often slough. A careful Anide-joint. examination of the vascular supply of the flap ■^rill show at once that the posterior tibial artery may be cut close to the base of the flap, ■\rfthout in the least interfering mlh the chief vessels supplying it. The distribution of vessels to the part is as follows. On the outer side, the peroneal arteiy, after giving off the an enor peroneal, is eontinued do^wn along the posterior aspect of the fibula to the outer side of the os calcis. On the inner side a branch of considerable s^e anses from the postenor tibial artery, about one-and-a-half to two inches aboxe the ankle-]omt, and passes down to the inner side of the os calcis running behind the inner malleolus and accompanying the small cutanemis nerve from the posterior tibial to the sldn of the heel. Thc'^ mam trunk on each side running down to the heel behind the malleolus and these two communicate freely with each other superficiallv over the back of tho anklo-jomt; a..a they tommato by anastomosing again by long G 2