WOUFDS OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 349 day Tliis remedy possesses a more decidedly controlling influence over traiunatic arthritis than any other wth which I am acquainted. TMien suppuration has come on, long and free incisions should be made into the joint so as to procure an early outlet for the pus ; the part must be well poulticed, and an attempt made to procure ankylosis by the granulation and cohesion, through fibrous tissue, of the articular surfaces. Puncturing the joint is worse tluiii useless. By a puncture, the pus cannot be evacuated from, a deep and complicated joint, but air is admitted, and the result is decompo- sition of secretions, with imtative fever and pyaemia ; but, by making fr’ee and early incisions, the dangers resulting from decomposition of the pus and its absoi’ption into the system are in a great measure lessened, and the constitu- tional irritation produced by the tension of the parts is at once removed. The joint itself is not put into a worse condition by being more fr’cely opened ; foi, when once suppuration has been set up in it, even to a limited extent, destruc- tion of its tissues must ensue ; and the patient may recover with a stiff joint, or amputation may become imperative, or he may die from constitutional irritation. The most favourable result that can be anticipated, therefore, is a stiff joint, and this the Sm-geon should endeavoim to obtain. If the case pro- ceed favourably, the discharge will gradually lessen, and the constitutional disturbance subside. The joint must then be placed in such a position, that, when ankylosis results, the hmb may be serviceable to the patient. If, how- ever, as very frequently happens when the larger joints are wounded, the suppuration within the articulation, and the abscesses that form outside it, reduce the patient to a hectic state, secondary amputation speedily becomes inevitable. Wounds of Individual Joints.—To the preceding general principles I have httle to add with respect to wounds of the individual joints. The Hip and Shoulder are so deeply placed, and so well protected, that they can scarcely be wounded except as the result of gun-shot injmy, the ti’eatment of which condition has already been discussed (pp. 236, 237). Wound of the Knee-joint is one of the most common and most severe of such injmies. TiTien the result of gun-shot violence, it imperatively demands immediate amputation. When produced by a punctoe or clean cut, the wound must be closed, and ice and antiseptics employed assiduously. Should suppuration occur, the joint must be freely laid open by long incisions, and commonly amputation will be required. The abscess wifi often form deeply in the thigh rather than in the joint itself; and in a very insidious manner. The limb swells up to the trochanters, becomes very tense, painftd, hot, and cedematous, -with great constitutional distmbance and imtative fever. But the joint may be but little swollen, and many days will often elapse before fluctua- tion can be felt in it or in the thigh. It is this absence of swelling in the knee itself that may mislead an inexperienced practitioner. At length the abscess may approach the surface near the knee ; and, on an incision being- made, an immense quantity of pus is discharged. The abscess forms as a consequence of the escape of some of the in-itating contents of the suppurating synovial membrane, close upon the anterior surface of the femur ; it creeps up and sun-ounds the bone under the deep muscles of the limb, which are separated ft-om the bone, and may reach as high as the trochanters before it is detected.