VARIX OF THE LYMPHATICS. 921 has also been seen in the anterior wall of the abdomen, about the ankle and elbow joints, and on the prepuce. In the superficial lymphatics, the varix first appears in the form of small elevations, giving the skin an appearance which has been compared to the rind of an orange ; it subsequently takes the form of little vesicles covered Avith a thin layer of epidermis. Varix of the larger lym- phatic trunks frequently accompanies the condition just described. The vessels may either be dilated cylindrically into round beaded enlargements, often semi- transparent, and but slightly compressible ; or ampullae may be formed on them, giving rise to more or less soft SAvellings, fluctuating under the finger. There is some oedema, attributable either to obstruction of the lymphatics or to the impeded floAV of the lymph. In 31 out of 55 recorded cases, a discharge of lymph (Lymphorrhcea) has been observed. This has also been seen to occur without varix, as the result of w'Oimd. In the latter case, the flow is continuous; while in the lymphorrhcea Avhich attends varix, it is to some extent intermittent. The identity of the fluid dischai-ged vuth lymph has been estabhshed by chemical and microscopic examination. An excessive discharge of the fluid is liable to produce symptoms of general debility, of the same kind as those induced by hasmorrhage. Treatment—Spontaneous cure of lymphatic varix has been observed in cases Avhere the penis was affected, the disease being the result of the obstruction to the flow of lymph caused by buboes. In other instances, various plans of treatment have been tried, with apparently indifferent result. Caustics have been used by several Surgeons, but, as the disease is often deeply seated as Avell as superficial, with but little result. Beau treated three cases successfully by introducing a seton into the dilated lymphatic vessels, and exciting adhesive inflammation. B. BeU advises ligature of the lymphatic vessel from which the discharge of fluid takes place. Compression by means of a bandage has been recommended by N^laton. Besides the diseases of the lymphatics and those glands here described, other pathological conditions have been observed. Thus, the glands may undergo cancerous degeneration as the result of absorption from a primary cancer ; and in other cases they have been found to have undergone calcification as the result of tuberculous degeneration, or chronic inflammation.