THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. 176 At first, small lateral dilatations or pouches appear at some points on the walls of the nearest old vessels ; these grow out into the plastic mass, bend towards each other, coalesce, and form loops or forks. I'hese loops give rise to secondary vascular outgxowths ; and thus the vascularisation of the lymph is completed. Travers states that these vessels are visible, like fine striae, before the circu- lation can be detected in them. A single blood-corpuscle fii'st enters ; this is folloAved by others, Avhich for some time hai'e a see-saw or oscillating motion, progressing gradually towards the nearest vessel, by the entrance of the blood into which the circulation is completed, and becomes contmuous and ecpiable. Degemraiion of Lymph.—This has been especially studied by Paget. He obsen'es that it may wither and harden, forming dry horny masses of vegeta- tions ; or that it may undergo fatty degeneration, and become converted into granular matter. These last two forms of degeneration are frequently met Avith in the coats of diseased arteries. Besides these changes, it may calcify, being- replaced by an inorganic earthy material; it may undergo pigmentary changes ; ■or it may be converted into pus. 4. Granulation.—In those cases in which, from the natiue and situation •of the wound, or in consequence of the broken state of the patient’s constitu- tion, or fi-om some local interference with the healing process, or from some other distiu-bing cause, union by direct cohesion, or by adhesive inflammation, fails to be accomplished, union by “ the Second Intention,” as it is termed, occurs ; and we may often see in the same Avound, one portion healed by direct union, another part by adhesive inflammation, and the remainder by granula- tion. In such instances, the layer of lymph effused over the sm-face of the Avomid increases luitil it is organised into a mass of thick and ruddy granula- tions, whilst the serous oozing, transparent and thin at first, becomes gi-adually thick and opaque, and Avill be found by the third or fourth day to have assumed the form of pus. The inflammation has passed therefore from the adhesive to the suppiu-ative stage. This transition is attended by a general febrile condition, the presence of Avhich is readily detected by the thermometer, AA^hich may indicate a rise of 2°, 3°, or even 6° Pahr. With the estabhshment of suppiu’ation, the pyrexia rapidly abates and disappears by the fifth or sixth day; any rise of temperatm-e subsequent to this date cannot be due to the natural process of repair, but denotes danger from some other quarter. In other respects, healing by granulation is identical with the process of the repair of ulcers ; and to that description (p. 163) the reader is referred. It must not be forgotten, howeA'er, that suppm-ation is by no means essential to repair by granulation. We shall find that, imder certain favourable conditions, the repair of extensive and severe wounds has been accomplished AAuth little or no formation of pus, the organisation of the lymph into fibro-cellular tissue being effected in a maimer somewhat similar to that Avhich obtains in sub- cutaneous injuries, such as simple fractiu-es. The class of injuries in Avhich Ave look for union by the second intention includes the contused and lacerated AA'Ounds of all kinds, the cavities left after removal of dead bone, the raw surfaces folloAAung burns and scalds, poisoned wounds, and those incised wounds Avhich, fr-om the state of the patients health, or fr-om too A'iolent or too prolonged inflammation, or fr-om the mtci-