9° SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. ■ In cases of injury immediately above tlie ankle, Teale’s operation (Fis?. 57 a so Figs. 10 and 11, p, 41) can be readily perfoi-med, according to the rules laid Fig. 57.—Teale’s Amputation in the Lower Third of the Log. clown on p. 41. If the soft parts be retracted from the bones for a distance of from an inch to an inch and a half or two inches above the angle of the flaps, all the advantages of Teale’s method can be obtained by making an anterior flap equal in length to the diameter of the hmb almost rectangular in shape, but having the angles rounded off. A very short posterior flap may be cut to meet this by carrying the knife behind the limb somewhat obliquely from one end of the first incision to the other. The soft parts ai'e then retracted and the bone saAvn as high as possible. As in Teale’s method, the flaps should contain all that can be taken from the bones, as in this situation they are someAA'hat liable to slough. Lister reconmiends that the incision should be earned, on the fibular side, as high as the point at which the bone is to be saAvn, as this gi’eatly facilitates the separation of the soft parts. In order to aA'oid unneces- sary Avounding of the anterior tibial artery, Teale recommends that the soft parts shoidd be raised from the interosseous membrane by the finger or thumb nail. In the middle and upper thirds of the leg,-the bones lie more towards the anterior aspect of the limb, and consequently it is not necessary to provide so long an anterior flap in order that the cicatrix may be placed AA^ell behind them. In these situations the anterior flap may bo made equal in length to two-thirds of-the diameter of the limb, and the posterior flap one-half the length of the anterior. The anterior flap should consist, at its lower edge, of skin and lat only, but it should be gradually deepened as it is raised, till at its base it contains almost all the muscle that can be obtained from the front of the limb (Fig. 58). In dissecting up the posterior flap, the limb should be raised so that the Siu'geon can more conveniently see AALat he is doing. It should contain only skin and fat. Both flaps being held AveU out of the Avay, the muscles ain