dislocations of taesal bones. sn elastic bandage, and then bringing the articulating surfaces into contact, di-ess- ing the pai-ts lightly, and trusting to the formation of a new joint between the tibia and the os calcis. So, also, if a simple dislocation of the astragalus become compound in cousecpience of the sloughing of the superjacent tense in- teguments, the exposed and necrosing bone should be removed in part or m whole, according to the circumstances of the case. If together with the dislo- cation of the astragalus, the foot be extensively crushed, amputation may be required either at the anlile-joint or at some convenient part of the leg. Dislocations op the other TiiRSAL Bones are of extremely rare occur- rence. Most of these bones, however, have been found luxated at tunes. The Calcaneum and Scaphoid, carrying with them the rest of the foot, are sometimes dislocated from the astragalus, which is left in situ under the mal- leolar arch. In these dislocations the bones may be displaced in either lateral direction—outwards or inwards. The Treatment consists in the flexion of the leg and attempts at reduction by extension of the foot in the ordinary way. If moderate extension fail in effecting reduction, Pallsel has recommended division of the tendo Achillis, and, if necessary, of the posterior tibia! tendon, as a means of facilitating this, on the same principle as in dislocation of the astragalus. The Calcaneum has been dislocated laterally from its connection with the cuboid in consequence of falls from a height, the sufferer alighting upon his heel. Chelius mentions a case in which this bone was dislocated by the effort of ch’a'Ring off a tight boot. Reduction seems to be readily effected by relaxmg the muscles, and pressing the bone back into its proper position. The Scaphoid and Cuboid Bones have been dislocated upwards, in con- sequence of a person jumping from a height and alighting upon the ball of the foot. In these instances the limb is shortened and curiously distorted, the toes pointing downwards, and the arch of the instep being increased so as to resemble closely enough the deformity of club-foot. Reduction maybe effected by drairing and pressing the parts into position. The Great Cuneiform Bone has occasionally been found to be dislocated, Sir A. Cooper mentions an instance of the kind. If reduction be not effectecl by pressing the bone into its position, no great evil appears to result to the patient, the motions of the Ihnlj not being seriously interfered with. Sometimes the tarsal joints are extensively torn open without any one bone being distinctly dislocated. I have seen this happen to a young man who caught his foot between the spokes of a revolving wheel; the foot was violently bent and twisted, and all the tarsal joints more or less torn open. Those between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, the calcaneo-cuboid and calcaneo-astragaloid, as well as the ankle-joint itself, were especially injured, 80 as to necessitate amputation. Dislocation oe the Metatarsal Bones, though excessively rare, fr’om the manner in which these bones are locked into the tarsus, and retained by short and strong ligaments, yet occasionally occurs. Instances are recorded by Dupuytren and Smith : Liston mentions a case of luxation of the metatarsal bone of the great toe from direct violence; and Tufnell records a case of luxation downwards and backwards of the inner three metatarsal bones, fr-om a tall upon the leg by a horse roUing on its rider. Two cases have occiUTcd