TREATMENT OF SCxiLP WOUNDS. 535 or, at all events, the same blow that has caused the cut in the scalp, may have (dven rise to such functional derangement of the Ijrain as may lead to the womt forms of traumatic encephahtis. It more frequently happens that the scalp is bruised and lacerated as well as wounded ; and very commonly that a large flap or integument is stripped oil the skull, and is thro^vn down o^-er the face or ear, so as to denude the bones. In these cases, advantage is taken of the great vitahty of the scalp. liowe\ei extensively contused or lacerated this may be, however much it may be begrimed with dirt, it is a golden rule in surgery not to cut any portion of it away, but, after shaving the head and ligatiu'ing any bleeding vessels, to wash and clean it thoroughly, and replace it in its pro2:>or position. Here it must be retained by the support of a few strij)s of plaster, or by the aj)phcation of a sutm’e or two at the points of greatest traction : for this 2)m’pose, thick silver-wme is better than silk or thread. The use of sutures has been dej)recated by many Surgeons in iujiu’ies of the seal}), as tending to favour erysipelas; and undoubt- edly much mischief Avill arise if an attempt be made to stitch np the womid closely, and in small wounds sutiu’es are generally unnecessary. But in exten- sive lacerations, more })articularly of the anterior part of the scalp, where the soft pai’ts are stripped olF, and hang over the occiput as the patient hes down, they cannot be dispensed with ; and here I have never seen any but the best consequences follow their use at those points where the torn sirnfaces can be readily approximated. In cases of this kind, the under siu’face of the scalp gi’amflates, and union by the second intention takes place between it and the pericranium. If the edges do not come properly together, a piece of Avater- dressing may be applied ; but the head must be kept cool, and as little band- aging and plastering had recoiu’se to as possible. The patient should be fi?eely purged, and kept perfectly at rest on a rather low diet; any cerebral symptoms that occiu’ being treated in accordance Avith the principles laid down in discus- sing traumatic affections of the brain. In this Avay, union Avill A’ery probably take place through the greater portion of the injm-ed siu’face ; should it not do so, however, or should any part slough, gTanulations spring up, and reparatiA'c action goes on with siuprising rapidity. If pus form beneath the aponem’osis of the occi})ito-frontahs muscle, bagging must be prevented by early counter- openings, and by the employment of compression in proper du’ections. It is important to make the diagnosis between tramnatic erysipelas of and abscess under the scalp. This may, as a rule, be done by obserAung that in eiysipelas the red tumefaction of the scalp extends from the mai’gins of the AAOund, and eai'ly stretches beyond the true limits of the pericranium, invading the eyelids, attacking the ears, etc.; AAfrilst in abscess, there is not only an absence of extension of disease, AAuth the exception possibly of oedema of the eyelids, beyond the proper limits of the scalp, but the pimulentj collection Avill giavitate to certain defined parts of the head, directed by the anatomical con- nections of the occipito-fr’ontalis. I he pericranial aponeurosis or tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle is n-mly attached to the fat and fascia superficial to it, Avhilst it is comiectcd in le oosost manner possible Avith the parts underneath. This arrangement is 0 en of gi-eat semce m protecting the skull from fracture, espccially Avhen the ea is caught between two solid bodies, as, for example, the Avhecl of a cart