I 2o8 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. the pressure to which it has hoeii suhjocted, and of the shakino' and tearing of the pait by the animal. l\Hien inflicted by the tusk or horn of an animal, the wound is extcnsiyely lacerated rather than contused, and often partakes of the nature of a punctiued wound. j When a part of the body is torn ott', the wound presents peculiar characters ; which differ, however, accordino; as the separation is effected at the part struck or seized, or at a distance from it. Tn the first case—as when a cannon-ball carries off a limb, or an arm is ■caught in a steam-mill or rag-tearing machine and crushed or tom off—the stump presents a very ragged surface, the skin being stripped away higher than the other parts, the tendons hanging out, and the bellies of the muscles that are tom across beiirg swollen, protruding, and apparently constricted by the lacerated integument. A most important condition in such wounds is the state of the vessels ; these arc separated lower down than the other parts, for, being elastic, they elongate and pull out before they give way. There is no hfemoiThage, because the inner and middle coats of the artery, breaking off short, retract and contract to a small aperture, and allow the external coat to be dragged down and twisted over its mouth, in such a way as to offer a complete ban-ier to the escape of blood. The lione is crushed off at the end of the stimap, of which it forms the irregular conical apex, and is often split up to the next joint above. Occasionally, when parts are pulled off, they are separated at a distance fr’om the point seized. Thus, fingers that have been torn off by machinery have their extensor tendons separated higher up, at their junction noth the belly of the muscle, and not at the part seized ; the tendon being drawn out of its sheath, and hanging on to the separated end in a ribbon-like manner. Tn railway accidents, when a train has passed O’^cr a limb -without completely separating it, the muscles may be found detached from their origins. Progress.—In the progress of a contused or lacerated wound there are two distinct periods : 1, that of the Separation of the Slough produced by the con- tusion ; 2, that of Eepair by (Iranulations of the chasm left. These processes are analogous to those which occur in ulceration, and are described at pages 1G2 and 108. The Extent of the Slough depends not only upon the extent and severity, but also upon the situation of the injury. Tf the parts around the wound be much bruised, then superficial sloughing to a great extent may occur ; if the woimd be deep though not extensive, there wiU always be danger of troublesome slonofring, leading to deep suppmation and biuro-wing of matter, and in some nases to secondary h£emorrhage. Those wounds that are situated immediately ■ over bony points—as the shin and elbow—are especially tedious, as the slough ' fr'oc^nently implicates the fasciae. I he scalp has a less tendency to slough than tiny other part of the cutaneous surface. This is o-wnng to its gi-eat vascularity, and to the large supply of blood Avhich it receiA'cs from closely subjacent arteries. Tn all cases of*^contused and lacerated wounds—more especially iu those of the scal|-)—there is great danger of the supervention of erysipelas. But the chief danger to be apprehended in Avonnds of this description is the supervention of Traumatic Gangrene, Avln’ch may occur in three vajs. 1. Tlie contusion always kills a thin layer of tissue, Avliich forms a slough on the sides or lips of the Avound ; but in some cases the A'iolcnco done to the pait