405 FE AC TUBE OF THE CLAVICLE. is due to two causes, one of which is mechanical and the other muscular. The displacement downwards is owing to the weight of the arm and the action of the deltoid muscle dragging the fragment down. The displacement inwm-ds, with rotation of the shoulder forwards and pointing of the sternal end of the outer fr-agment backwards, is due to the action of the pectoralis minor, and the subcla^ius, and the other muscles that pass fr-om the fr'ont and sides of the trmik to the hmnerus and scapula, draA\dng the scapula and the Avhole of the upper extremity forwards and inwards towards the mesial line, when the support of the clavicle is removed. The outer extremity of the iimer fr-agment appoara to be elevated, the skin being dravm tensely over it; but this is rather owing to the depression of the outer portion of the bone ; it is usually kept fixed by the antagonism between the sterno-cleido-mastoid and great pectoral muscles. It may, however, in some cases be raised. This is when the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is unusually strong, and when the fr-actm-e has taken place just outside its insertion into the clavicle; or it may be raised and pushed forwards, by the inner end of the outer fragment getting below or behind it. On looking at a patient with fractiu-e of the cla-vdcle in this situation, the natm-e of the injiu-y is at once evident. The flattening of the shoulder, and the approximation of its point towards the sternum ; the great prominence foi-med by the outer end of the inner fragment, over which the skin is tightly stretched ; the sudden depres- sion under this, and the crepitus, Ayhich can be easily induced by elevating and rotating the shoulder at the same time that the elbow is pressed to the side, indicate in the most unequivocal mamier the nature of the injury. The atti- tude of the patient is remarkable : he sits, leaning his head down to the affected side, so as to relax the muscles, and supports his elbow and forearm in the sound hand, in order to take off the weight of the limb. When the fractm-e occiu’s near to the sternal end of the bone, it is usually, if not always, transverse. If it occur internally to the rhomboid hgament, the outer fr-agment is displaced forward, but remains in the same horizontal level as the sternal fr-agment. If the triple displacement of the outer fr-ag- ment, characteristic of fr-actiu-ed clavicle, vizi, in a direction downwards, forwards, and imA'ards, have ocem-red, then E,. W. Smith believes that, how- ever near the joint the fractiu-e may appear to be, it must in reahty have occiUTed externally to the costo-clavicular ligament, which is too strong to admit of this displacement, or to be ruptured, and so to aUoAV it to be occasioned. Comminnted Tracture of the Clavicle is the result of seA'ere and direct violence. It is a dangerous accident, as the subclaAuan vein and adjacent plexus of nerves, or the upper part of the plem-a, may be seriously injiu-ed. In a case that Avas under my care, the subclavian A'ein was apparently Avomided, gi-eat extravasation of blood taking place about the shoulder and neck, and the circulation through the veins of the arm being so much interfered AAuth as to threaten gangrene. The case, however, did per- fectly AA-ell under the continuous application of evaporating lotions to the shoulder, and attention to the position of the arm. But in another case, gangrene^ ot the arm took place, leading to amputation at the shoulder- jomt. The patient died of pyaemia, and a fragment about one inch long