174 THE PJiOCESS OF EE PAIR. 3. Union by Adhesive Inflammation, the “ Union hj the First Intention of modem feimgeons, or “ Priman/ Adhesion,” as it is teimed by Paget, is'. effected by the effusion of lymph between the opposed siu’faces, and is more frequently obtained than the direct union. In order that it should take place, the following conditions are necessary :—1. That the patient’s eonstitntion be in a healthy state ; 2. That the woimd be closed, its sides brought into accu- rate apposition, and the air excluded ; 3. That the interposition of all foreign bodies be carefully guarded against; 4. That the inflammation be restrained nithin such bounds as sirBice for the production of lymph, but are insufficient for the destruction and degeneration of the latter, or the production of | pus. The lymph, or matter effused, presents itself to the Siu-geon in two forms.. One is the true healthy coagulable lymph—the ^Acistic lymph of Wilhams, or- the fih-inoiis of Paget; it is this, by which union is effected. The other form has been named aplastic by WiUiams, croupous by Eokitansky, and corpuscular by Paget. This variety of lymph is met with in, and is indicative of, cachectic states of the system. It consists of a thin, clear, serous fluid, in which float coi-puscles, resembling in general characters the white coi-puscles of the blood. The corpuscles of this aplastic lymph are liable to degenerate into gi’amfle- cells, granidar matter, and debris. Indeed, this corpusciflar lymph is closely allied to pus. {Fee p. 140.) These two primary forms of lymph, the fibrinous and the corpuscular, are- ahnost always fomid together, but exist in various proportions in the same- exudation-mass ; the relative quantity of the one or the other element deter- mining whether it shall undergo development or degeneration. Paget observes that, “ the larger the proportion of fibrine in any specimen of inflammatory lymph (provided it be healthy fibrine), the greater is the likehhood of its being organised into tissue this preponderance of fibrine being indicative of adhesive inflammation. And “ the larger the proportion of corpuscles, the greater the probability of suppination or of some other generative process the preponderance of corpuscles being a general featine of suppinative inflammation. The foUnwing are the steps in the process of union by adhesive inflamma- tion in an ordinary incised wound. On the cessation of aU htemoiThage, the mouths of the dixdded A'essels and capillaries are clogged by red coi’pusclcs, whilst the hquor sanguinis is poured out over the denuded sinfaces. Thc'- fibrine coagiflates and, together with proportion of white corpuscles, adheres to the surfaces, leaving the serum to drain away. The sides of the woimd , having thus become “ glazed ” are approximated, while the layer of flbrine, being continually added to by fresh exudation, glues them together; the edges of the external incision become shghtly reddened, swollen, and tender; the ■ serum, stained somewhat by admixture with blood, continues to exude for some- hours. Meanwhile, permanent union takes place by the gradual organisa- tion of the layer of fibrine into connective tissue, and all signs of inflamma- f tion subside, as the external line of incision becomes gradually coieicd uitli epithehum. The adhesive layer forms with varying rapidity on different : surfaces ; thus in a stump, after amputation, it will be found that the muscles, fascite, and areolar tissue arc covered with fibrine in the course of a few houis I