dislocation^ of the carpal bones. 491 Tho Treatment of these cases is simple, and in accordance with general principles. Reduction, which is readily effected, must be maintained by the Application of antcro-postcrior splints of sufficient length to take Compound Dislocation of the Wrist, AVithout fracture of the bones of the foreaim, is a rare accident. In one such case which came under niy care at the Hospital, in consequence of injmy inflicted on the arm by machinery, the hand was thronm forwards, the radius projecting backwards, and the soft structures on the palmar aspect of the joint were so extensively torn through as to necessitate amputation. The Treatment of such a case mil depend on the amount of injury done to the soft parts. If these be not very extensively injin-ed, an attempt may be made to save the limb ; but if they be widely torn, through, the ai-teries and nerves lacerated, and the tendons perhaps hanging out, amputation will be required ; this occinred, and the operation was per- formed, in the case to which I have just referred. This wifl be rendered more imperative if the bones of the forearm be comminuted as well. Congenital Dislocation of tlie Wrist may take place either forvards or backwin-ds. The limb is in either case greatly deformed. The bones are shortened and altered in shape, more especially the lower end of the radius. The muscles are also shortened, the extensor tendons forming a shaiqi angle as they pass over the carpus. Dislocatiojts OS’ SiifGLE BosTES OF THE CARPUS are by no means frequent. The bone that is most commonly displaced is the Os Magnum. This accident usually happens from falls, in which the hand is violently bent forwards, in consequence of Avhich this bone starts out from its articulation, projecting as a round hard tumour on the back of the wrist opposite to the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. It may be readily reduced by being pressed upon Avhile at the same time the hand is extended. There is, hoAvever, a great tendency for this bone to slip out again, leaving considerable weakness of the joint; so much so, that, in two cases recorded by Sir A. Cooper, the patients found it necessary to wear artificial supports. The Pisiform Bone is occasionally dislocated upwards. In a case under my care, it was displaced by an effort to hft a heavy weight, and draAvn up the arm to a distance of nearly an inch by the flexor carpi ulnaris. A case some time ago occurred to me, at the Hospital, in which the Semi- lunar Bone AA'as dislocated. The patient had fallen from a height, injiu’ing his spine, and doubling his right hand under him. On examining the wrist, a small hard tumoin’ was felt projecting on its dorsal aspect ; it readily disap- peared on extending the hand and employing firm pressme, but started up again so soon as the Avrist was forcibly flexed. It was eAident that this bone belonged to the first roAV of the carpus, articulating A\ith the radius ; and from its size, its position towards the radial side of the carpus, and its shape, Avhich could be veiy distinctly made out through the integuments, there could be little doubt that it Avas the semilunar bone. Taaffe, of Brighton, has related a case in which the semilunar bone Avas dislocated anteriorly, so that it jirojected upwards and forAvards betAveen the radius and ulna. Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones.—Tlie Metacarpal Bones may possibly, though very rarely, be dislocated from the carpus. This acci- dent usually happens to a single metacarpal bone ; Avhich, in consequence of