FRACTURE OF NECK OF THIGH-BONE. 429 sertions of these muscles, no influence can be exercised by them on the lower frao-ment. I look upon eversion in cases of fractured thigh as not,being a result of muscular action at all, but simply the natural attitude into which the limb falls when left to itself. Even in the sound state, eversion takes place spontaneously whenever muscular action is relaxed, as during sleep, in pai-alysis, or in the dead body ; and in the iiijmed limb, in which there is, as it were, a suspension of muscular action, it ivill occur equally. Indeed, the shortening that takes place will specially tend to relax the external rotators, and thus still more prevent their influencing the position of the limb. Inversion of the foot in cases of intracapsular fracture has been sometimes noticed. I have seen two instances : Smith, Stanley, and other Sm'geoiis, have also recorded cases. This de-sdation from the usual symptoms of this injiuy has been attributed by some to the cervical ligament not having been tom through at its inner side, but that, as Stanley observes, while it may prevent evei’sion, cannot occasion inversion ; by others to the fact of the lower frag- ment in these cases being always found in front of the upper one. This cir- cumstance, which is much insisted on by E. N. Smith, appears to me to be rather the result than the cause of the inversion ; for any traction inwards of the lower fragment by the adductor muscles of the thigh would have a tendency to di’aw the upper end of this fragment to the anterior, or in other words, the imier side of the upper one. I am rather disposed to think that this inversion is owing, in some cases at least, to the external rotators being paralysed by the violence they receive from the injiuy that occasions the fractm-e, and that thus the adductors, acting vdthout antagonists, draw the thigh and vdth it the leg inwards. In both instances that feU under my observation, and in some of those that have been published, the fracture resulted from severe direct injury to the hip, and was not occasioned by the patient jarring his foot, or by any indirect violence operating at the end of the limb. The Shortening in cases of fracture within the capsule seldom exceeds, in the first instance, fr-om half an inch to an inch, depending on the extent of the separation between the fragments ; it camiot, indeed, in the eai-ly periods of the fr-actm-e, very well exceed the vddth of the neck of the bone, as the capsule is usually not torn thi-ough. After the fracture has existed some time, the capsule of the joint may yield, allowing gTeater separation between the frag- ments, and then it may amount to two, or even two and a half inches. It not uncommonly happens that the shortening, which is at first but very slight, about half an inch, suddenly increases to an inch or more ; this is accoimted for on the supposition of the cervical ligament, which had at first not been completely ruptured, at last giving way entirely ; or it may be owing to the fragments which were originally interlocked becoming separated. It is in those cases in which there is but slight separation of the fragments, and consequently little shortening, that the other signs of fi’acture are not very strongly marked, and that the patient preserves some power over the moA'cments of the limb. The Constitutional Disturbance in intracapsidar fr-acture of the neck of the femur in old people, though trifling at first, often eventually becomes con- siderable ; and the injury frequently terminates fatally, from the supervention of congestive pneumonia, an asthenic state of system, or sloughing of the nates