INFLAMMATION. it4 establish the existence of the inflammatory process, it is necessary that the actions constituting it should continue for some length of time ; as the changes gradually pass from simple hyperasmia into inflammation, it is difficult to say, except by the persistence and intensity of the symptoms, that this process has actually commenced. The Local Signs of inflammation may be refened to flve heads : viz.,. 1. Alteration in Colour; 2. Alteration in Size; 3. Modification of Sensa- tion; 4. Increase of Temperukire; Modification of Function of the Part Affected. Certain of these conditions may occim separately, or two or more may be associated together, without the existence ol inflammation ; but it is the peculiar grouping together of them all that most distinctly characterises the presence of this pathological condition. The relative intensity of these- changes varies greatly, according to the tissue which is the seat of the inflam- mation ; thus, in inflammation of mucous membranes and of the skin, the altemtion in colour is xiost marked ; in inflammation of the areolar tissue, the change in size always attracts special attention ; and when a fibrons tissue is inflamed, its sensibihty becomes greatly increased. It must riot be forgotten, however, that one or other of these signs may be abserrt, especially pam and heat. 1. Alteration of Colour is arr iirvariable local sign of inflammation, arrd orre of the earliest arrd most striking ; parts that are natru'ally perfectly pale, as the ocular conjunctiva, assuming the most vivid ermrsorr colorrr when irrflamed. Some textm-es, though they change in colorrr, do not become red. i bus, the ir-is, when irrflamed, assirmes a greyish or bromrish tinge ; and the mrreorrs membrane of the bladder, arrd of a portion of irrtestirre, ofterr becomes slate- colom-ed. The redness of irrflammatiorr varies from a bright crimson to a drrll purple, the tint depeirding greatly upoir the state of the coirstrtution, am upon the presence of more or less congestion. The duller arrd darker the tint, the more local congestion arrd constitutional depression do we usuaUy hnd. The redness is evidently due, in the earlier stages of the disease, to the drlata- tioir of the vessels, and the increased accumulation of red coiiruscles. ir some low or asthenic forms of the disease, the coloruing rnatter of Wood appears to rmdergo changes that allow its ready walls of the vessels, or perhaps there is an increased m,o,at.on «f corpuscles ; and in some chronic cases the Tasenlarisation of the pioducts of inflammation tends to render the coloration more enduring. • ni « ^ •> Alteration in Size.-The swelling of inflamed tissues is dne m the firet instance to the increased afflux of blood, and to the exudation of icd and uh t. e"s and liqnm sangninis. But sooner or later the -ol greater, by the increase in site and ninnher of the tissue-elements of the affected ‘"'The swelling varies greatly in difftnent localities. textures, and least in those which are firm and dense. Th , iiiflanmiation of the ■Structures, such as bone and ligament, ® ‘ "" tcimina^te in permanent If the inflammation become chronic, the smc11iii„ hypertrophy, or thickening, as will hereafter be describee.