143 TENDENCY TO SUPPURATION. essential characteristic of suppm-atioii is, as has been shown, the development in excessive number of corpuscles closely resembling, if not indeed identical with, the colom-less corpuscles of the blood. It is dependent on inflammation, although in some cases, such as the “ cold abscess ” to be hereafter described, the other phenomena of iuflaunnation may be very slightly marked; and it therefore is foimd to occur along with the other tissue-changes, whether of repair or of destruction, which are connected vdth inflammation. The process of repair of injiu'ies, as will be described hereafter, is attended in general by more or less of inflammation, under which a supply of organisable fibrinous matter or lymph is thrown out, and undergoes conversion into cica- tricial tissue. Very frequently—especially under exposm’e to the air—suppura- tion takes place at the same tune. In an ordinarily healthy subject, this plastic or adhesive inflammation gradually gains ground, and, overcoming the tendency to suppiu-ation, closes the woimd. In such cases the pus, so long as it is formed, is of the “healthy” or “laudable” kind. And though the suppuration is by no means essential to the process of repair, still the presence of pus of this kind indicates a healthy condition of the system and of the part. In other cases, especially in cachectic or specifically diseased states of the system, the material efiused fr’om the blood-vessels is deficient in plastic pro- perty, neither repaying the woimd nor forming “ laudable ” pus ; but con- sisting of a thin serous fluid containing corpuscles. This iviU be again refeiTed to in Chapter VII., in describing the process of “ Union by Adhesive Inflam- mation.” CiRCUMSTAXCES IXELUEXCING- THE TeXDEXCY TO SUPPURATION.—Why do the adhesive or fibrinous products of inflammation preponderate in some cases, and the suppurative or corpuscular in others ? This question has been closely investigated by Hunter, Bichat, Kokitansky, and 0. J. B. Williams, and has been very clearly answered by Sir James Paget, who has pointed out that toe difierence is dependent on tlu’ee causes1. The state of the blood ; 2. e seat of the inflammation ; 3. The degTee and chai-acter of the inflam- mation. 1. State of the Blood.—Paget apphed blisters to thirty chfferent patients, lid eoUected the scro-fibrmous fluid that aecumulated in the blebs. In those L ° purely local diseases, the constitution being otherwise f v'® filamentous, and elastic ; in cachectic or phthisical nno" ^ \ ^ wholly corpuscular ; ndth every intermediate vai’iety, and in tW of" general rule, in young persons indiUdfals the fibrine is plastic ; hence it is in these inflaiTi f ‘ uluy chiefly look for the union of wounds by adhesive tionXnf-"'^’ .,^'^,7^’®^'^^o^^®^uustitutions, on the other hand, the inflamma- voivtofio " trivial injury, as the sprain of a joint for instanris system^ shVht wn^ ? suppuration. So again, in certain cachectic states of the system slight wounds suppurate, or fester as it is termed. and'HiuLiulg ^°^^«^derably, as Bichat the mucous to f ■ u ‘ membranes are prone to fibrinous, state of the constitution 'm 1 iTilc, however, is subservient to the stitution, and to the influence of certain specific diseases. Thus