883 LUPUS. liowcvcr, seen them in the adult, occasioned both in tin's way and by the imtation of a blister. The warty cicatricial tissue chiefly develops on the chest and neck, and is commonly attended by much itcliin«; and tingling, often of a most distressing character. It is very vascular, bleeding freely when incised. Treatment.—These various forms of tinnour should, if possible, be extii’pated early by the knife, as they do not appear to be amenable to any constitutional or local treatment, and have certainly a disjDosition to malignant degeneration. As there is a great tendency to local recun’ence of the disease after removal, it should be widely excised ; but even then it is likely enough to return, re- quiring perhaps repeated operations before the patient can be freed from it. Lupu.s.—Under the term luious, various simple specific semi-malignant and malignant affections of the skin, of very different kinds, are commonly included ; indeed, the distinctions between lupus and the different forms of epithelial cancer have not as yet been well made out; and the term “ lupus ” is rather loosely applied to all rapidly destructive forms of chronic idceration, more especially when affecting the skin of the face. There are thi-ee foims, at least, in which the diseases included under the term lupus may make their appear- ance : 1, as a superficial affection of the skin, not attended by ulceration, but accompanied by important special and destrnctive changes in its tissue : this is the Lupus Non-exedens of some wi’iters ; 2, as the Lupus Exedens, a disease of a rapidly destructive character, not only eroding superficially, but destroying the tissues deeply ; 3, as a slowly ulcerating form of the disease, giving rise to the different ^ arieties of Lupoid or Rodent Ulcer. These various forms of lujpus are most commonly seated on the face or neck, but are occasionally met with on other parts of the body, as upon the limbs or trunk. 1. Lupus Non-exedens appears in the shape of a red patch on the skin, covered by fine branny epidermic desquamation ; it may remain stationary for years, or slowly spread over a great extent of surface, producing contraction of the skin, ^vlth wrinkling and drawing in of the featm-es, and much stiffness in their movements. The integument affected by it may be in one of two states • It may either continue red, irritable, and branny, having the appearance of a thin cicatricial tissue, and in this way the greater part or the whole of the face 3 L 2