DISLOCATIOJSfS OF THE SIIOULDER-JOTNT. 477 in the subo-lenoid, do^niAvards and slig'btly inwards, is thrown inwards cither dirLtly oi^hghtly downwards as well Why Sir A. Cooper described this as r. par lid dislocation, I do not understand ; for not only was there rupture of tlie capsule and of the long tendon of the biceps, but the woodcut at page 401 of the last edition of his work shows clearly that the head of the bone had foimcd a new articular cavity for itself in the subscapular fossa, being appa- rently completely thrown out of the glenoid cavity. There is here less deformity than in the other luxations, the acromion not formino- so distinct a projection (Fig. 211). The limb is usually somewhat lengthened, but at times is actuaUy shortened, the elbow being generaUy car- ried backwards and always slightly away from the side ; the head of the bone is placed deeply in the upper and inner pai’t of the axilla, and cannot always be very distinctly felt, owing to its being thickly covered with soft parts, by the coraco- braclhahs as well as by the pectorals ; rotation of the arm and elevation of the elbow being usually reejuired in order that it may be detected. There may be pain from the pressime of the head of the bone on the nerves or from stretching, and if the vein be pressed an oedema of the v hole hmb Avill occur. 2. In the dislocation Forwards, or the Sub- clavicular (Fig. 208), the head of the bone is thrown on the inner side of the coracoid process, lying upon the second and third ribs mider the pectoral muscles, and immediately below the clavicle. This dislocation is merely an increased degree of the preceding one, the head of the bone, which at first lies under the coracoid process, being readily di’awn inwai’ds, so as to be placed to the inner side of this process under the clavicle. In these cases the capsular muscles are much stretched or torn. In a case recorded by Ciuling, the infraspinatus and subscapularis muscles were torn away from the tubercles of the humerus, and the teres minor partially lacerated ; the capsule being completely separated from the neck of the bone, which pressed forcibly upon the axillary vessels and nerves. In three cases which I have had an opportunity of dissecting and examining after death, the great tubercle was torn away from the head of the bone, with much laceration of the capsule and extensive extravasation, but the external rotator muscles were not ruptured in two instances ; whilst in the third the supraspinatus, the infr-aspinatus, and the teres minor, were all torn across near the insertions into the humerus. In fact, in these cases it appears to bo a cpiestion of strength between muscle and bone; either the muscles are torn across, or the great tubercle, into Avhich they are inserted, is torn away from the shaft of the boiie, lea'S'ing its attached muscles uiu'uptured. In this dislocation, the head of the humerus can be felt and seen under the pectoral muscles beneath the claAicle ; the arm is shortened, the axis of the limb being directed toAvards its head, and the elbow is a good deal separated fr’om the side and throA\m back. Fig. 211.—Subuomcoid Disloca- tion of Humerus.