753 OJ UTILA GIXO US TUM0 URS. filmms tissue. It is this vascularity that often forms the most striking diiference bot^veen normal cartilage and enchondroma. Its surface may he covered by a distinct fibrous layer, sharply limiting it from the sm-rounding tissues, or the mass of cartilage may be surrounded by a vasenhar zone of embryonic tissue, sometimes composed of round, and sometimes of spindle-shaped cells ivhich may infiltrate and invade the siuToiinding structures. It is probably Fi,. oso -Enchomlroma (ISS cliam.) From a smaU tumour uear, but distiuet froiii, au ossifying «utdrolidroina of the femur, shows the variety iu shape of the cells and capsules At the upper part ealcilication is taking place involving first the matrix and then the cells. Fig. 281.—From an euchoudioma of tiie linger ; matrix faintly ftbrillated. this variety that assiunes the characters of malignancy. Enchondromata are liable to various secondary changes. Thus they may luidergo true ossification. The ordinary pedunculated or spongy exostosis is usually found to be covered ivith a thick layer of cartilage, so that it might be spoken of as an ossifying •enchondroma. Calcification is a far more common change than true ossifica- tion (Fig. 279). Not iinfreqiieiitly mucous softening takes place in the matrix. The cells in this condition float free in the fluid, and undergo de- generation, becoming filled with large globules of fat. This mucous softening may be so extensive as to give the once solid tumour the appearance of a thick- walled cyst. In a case of a very large enchondroma of the ribs under my eare a few years ago, I was enabled to make the diagnosis by microscopic ex- amination of a small quantity of such fluid, removed by means of the aspirator. Cartilage may also be found mixed in one tumour with other structiuns. Thus the cartilagijious tumours of the parotid region are seldom, if ever, pure, but contain mingled together the structru’es of myxoma, adenoma, and ■ enchon- droma. Enchondroma and sarcoma are not infrequently found combined. Enccphaloid cancer and enchondroma are said to have been fomid combined in the testis. Cartilaginous tumours may appear mider two distinct forms; most commonly as innocent growths, but in other cases assuming a malignant tendency and appearance. These two forms present dificrent signs. In the first case, the enchondroma occurs as a hard, smooth, elastic, ovoid, round, or flattened tumour, often nodulated, of small or but of moderate size, seldom exceeding that of an orange, and growing slowly without pain. In the second form, it approaches in its character to malignant disease, growing with extreme rapidity, VOL. I. 3 c