227 APdiEST OF HAEMORRHAGE. In addition to those immediate attentions, which may be bestowed upon sutterors fi'om gun-shot wounds before they are sent to the hospital for more methodical treatment, the influence of the shock should be counteracted by the administration of a little brandy-and-water, and plenty of cold water should be given to allay thirst. Gnn-sliot Wounds of the Extremities may bo divided into two great classes in reference to treatment:—I. Those that do not require amputation ; II. Those in which amputation is necessary. I. Those cases of gun-shot injury that do not require amputation must be treated on the principles that guide us in the management of all contused and lacerated wounds ; the Surgeon bearing in mind, however, that these injuries are especially apt to be followed by extensive and intense inflammatory action, and that sloughing will inevitably result in every part that has been touched by the ball. The first point to be attended to in these cases is the Arrest of Haemorrhage. In general, this may not give much trouble ; but, if a large vessel be injured, the loss of blood will rapidly prove fatal, unless immediately stopped. The bleeding- may in the first instance be stopped by direct pressiu-e with the fingers on the bleeding part, followed by the apifiication of the toiu’iiiquet; or, if this instrument be not at hand, of some simple substitute, such as a pebble, of about the size of an 6gg, rolled in the middle of a pocket-hand- kerchief and laid over the artery, the ends of the handkerchief being knotted round the limb, and then twisted up tightly with a piece of stick or the hilt of a swoi'd passed under it (Fig. 88). The wound in the arteiy may render amputation of the limb necessary ; if not, hemorrhage must be jDennanently aiTested by making an in- cision down to the bleeding vessel, and applying a ligatiu’e on each side of the Avound, for reasons that mil be fuUy stated ^vhen we come to speak of Injuries of Arteries. In military practice such opera- Fig. 88.—Gun-sliot Wound of Thigh : Mode of Comi)ressing Aiteiy temporarily. filct is that if i lovn f ^ i is scarcely ever practised. The from patient osrmlly dies ontrigU Q 2