FRACTURES. 39^ CHAPTER XXI. —♦— SPECIAL FPtACTURES. In coiisicleriug the natui-e and treatment of fractiu’es of particular hones, we shah at present coniine onr remarks to Fractiu-es of the Bones of the Face, Trunk, and Extremities. Injiules of the Bones of the Head and Spine derive their principal interest and importance from their compheation wth lesion of the internal and contained organs; hence the consideration of these mil be defeiTed to special Chapters. FBACTTJEES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. Nasal Bones.—These, being thin as weU as exposed, are not nufrequently broken. When fractiu-ed, they may remain undisplaced, but they are more commonly depressed; the ridge of the nose being beaten in. The swelling and ecchymosis. that usually attend their fr’actime often render detection difficidt, and must be reduced before any treatment can be ado^Dted for the removal of the defoimity. The depressed bone should be raised with the broad end of a director, or by the introduction into the nostril of a pair of polypus-forceps, which, expanding on being opened, push the bone into proper position. A flaccid vidcanised India-rubber dilator, of proper size and shape, introduced empty, and then expanded Avith water, will be found to answer admirably in restoring the shape, and removing the disfigiu’ement of a “ broken nose,” even though some weeks have elapsed since the injmy. If the septum alone be broken, the same treatment must be adopted ; the nose being supported and moulded into shape. As a rule, after it has been replaced, the position is maintained: but in some cases, where there is a tendency to sinking of the soft parts of the nose, the introduction of a plug of oiled hut round a qniU, left open for breathing, mU be required to replace and retain the organ in proper shape and prominence. The hemorrhage, AA'hich is usually rather abundant in the first instance, may be stopped by the apphea- tion of ice ; but occasionally the nostrils require plugging, in order to prevent it fr-om continuing to a dangerous extent. If the lachrymal hone be broken together with the nasal, the ductus ad nasmn may be obstructed, and the com-se of the tears diverted. In an injiuy of this kind, I have seen exten- sive emphysema of the eyelids and forehead occiu” on the patient attempting to blow his nose. In some cases, the injury indicted on the nasal bones extends through the ethmoid to the base ot the brain, and may thus occa- sion death. This I have seen happen from a severe blow on the face with a piece of wood. Malar and Upper Jaw Bones.—These are seldom broken milcss great and direct violence have been employed ; and their fracture is usually accom-