625 COiMFLICATIOXS OF WOUNDED LUNG. cough become much relieved by this expectoration, and recovery gradually takes place. It is probable that in these cases the lung is ecchymosed at the time of the injury, and that the blood extravasated in its tissue gradually breaks down Avheii it is discharged by coughing in the -s-iscous, semi-coagulated state above described—A'ery different ft-om the florid frothy sputum of recent limg- womid. IluPTURB OF THE LuNO from external violence has • occasionally been observed with, but in some instances wdthout, fracture of the ribs or other sign of injury to the thoracic walls. The symptoms and consequences of such an injury closely resemble, indeed are identical with, those of a wound of the lung ; there being expectoration of frothy blood, pnemno-thorax, perhaps emphysema and subsequent pneumonia. Though very dangerous, these injuries are not necessarily fatal; but recovery may take place as after an ordinary open wound of the lung. WoujS'd of the Lhh& is the most common and one of the most serious complj^atiorrs of injiuies of the chest. It may occur -without any external worrnd, from the ends of a brokerr rib being driven inwards, lacerating the pleru-a and penetrating the pulmonary tissue ; most frequently, however, it happens from a penetrating worrnd of the chest, by stab or bullet. The Ssrmptoms are sufficiently well marked. There is, in the first place, the immediate shock that usually accompanies the infliction of a severe injury, in this case amounting to extreme collapse. The patient is at the same time seized with considerable difficulty of breathing, the resphation being abdo- minal ; this is followed by much tickling and irritating cough, and the expec- toration of fr'othy bloody mucus, or perhaps large quantities of pure blood. If there-be an external opening, the air may pass in and out during the act of breathing; and emphysema, pnerrmothorax, or pnerrmorria will speedily superwene. On auscidtating the chest immediately after the infliction of the irrjirry, a loud rough crepitation will be distinctly audible at and aroimd the seat of lesion. CompHcations.—The principal dangers attending a wound of the lung arise irom the Bleeding, both external and iritermal, the occrurence of Hmmo° thorax. Emphysema, Pneumothorax, Pnermionia, and Empyema. 1.^ The Haemorrhage is usually abundant and often fatal; the patient vomifrng or spitting up a large quantity of florid and frothy blood, by which e might be choked. If it do not prove fatal by the second day, this bloody expectoration generally ceases in a great measure in the course of forty-ei°ht hours, giving way to sputa of a more rusty character. If the external wound le ^e^y free, there may also be copious bleeding from it; but not unfrequently e blood finds its way into the pleural sac rather than through the external apertme, and accmnulates in it ; and death may arise either from the exhaust- internal and concealed hasmoirhage, or fr-om suffocation Afihn u n flungs by the blood in the pleura Although bloody expectoration to some extent at least is an almost necessarv ribf rticirmo ’ystb, occasioned by the projection of broken ’ VOL. seventh day by hmmothorax and pleiuitio