INJUIUES OF SOFT PARTS. 2i6 merely hanging on by shi-eds of the lacerated museles—these may be di\ icled, and its removal thns effected without additional shock or suffering. Brush-Burn. There is a peculiar species of wound, that partakes perhaps more of the characters of those ^younds that we have just been considering than of any other, and is occasioned by rapid and sevex’e friction of the siu'face of the body, so that the skin becomes abraded and the subjacent tissues somewhat contused. It goes by the name of a “ brush-burn,” and is not unfr’erpiently produced in the manufacturing districts, by the sm-facc of the body coming into contact -with straps.or portions of machinery in rapid revolution. It has also been known to occur in consequence of a person slipping and sliding rapidly douui a long and steep Alpine snow-slope. In this injiuy the integu- mental structiu’es are, as it were, ground off, and the areolar and aponein-otic structui’es converted into an eschar. The Treatment presents nothing special, but may be conducted on ordinary principles. The separation of the eschars must be facihtated by water-dress- ing and poultices ; the resulting sores will heal by gTanulation ; and the general health must be supported diuing the suppiuative period that must necessarily ensue. PUNCTURED WOUNDS. These woiuids, made by narrow sharp-pointed instrimients, vary greatly in extent, from the prick of a needle in the finger to a sword-thrust through the body. Not imfr’equently punctrued wounds are somewhat con- tused, being made by a triangular or wedge-like weapon, as a bayonet or lance- blade. Hence they partake of the general character of contused woimds, having a tendency to unite by gTanulation from the bottom, and to be accom- panied by much inflammatory action. When deep, they are of a most dangerous character—woimdiug blood-vessels, traversing the great cavities, and injuring the contained vuscera. Treatment.—In the treatment of punctiued wounds, the principal points are to arrest the haemorrhage, and to facilitate union. The hmmorrhage must be arrested by pressiue properly apphed by means of compresses or pads, so as to approximate the sides of the pimctm'e ; by the application of cold ; or by cutting do'wn on the injiued vessel if it be a large one, and ligatiuing it .above and below the perforation in it. In the majority of cases, unless the injiuy be a slight one, suppiuation and rmion by the second intention will take place. But in many instances imion by adhesion is obtained ; and in those that are allowed to suppurate, there can be little doirbt that the same favoiuable termination might be seemed if proper- attention Avere paid to the irrjmy. The cavity shoirld be injected rnth car-bolic acid lotion ; all srrper-fluorrs moistme shordd be then carefrrlly exirressed ; the exterrral openiirg closed by collodiorr or styptic colloid, or after Lister s method ; and the sides kept in contact by compresses and bandages. Undue inflamma- tioir must be kept dowrr by coolirrg lotiorrs, &c. Irr former days, vherr drrcls with the small sword wore of fr’oqrrerrt occiuTerrce, j>ersoirs called srreker-s, Avho were ofterr the drinnmers of a regimerrt, Averc employed to attend the Avorrnded combatarrts. Their treatment, which Avas corrducted AAith a certain degree of mystery, coirsisted in srrckirrg the Avornrd till all blood ceased to Aoaa, and therr applying a peUet of chcAved’’paper or a piece of Avet lirrerr to the orifice ;