955 ADDENDA TO VOLUME I. Ether. Shortest time taken to i^lace under influence . Longest time „ no ... Average time ,, „ ,, Average time under influence Smallest quantity used in any one case, 2 ounces 4 drachms. Largest quantity used in any one case, !) ounces. Average quantity used in any case, 5 ounces 1 drachm. ^Minutes. :5 . 24 8 . 19 Seconds. SO 0 10 G Vomiting occiuTcd in 11 cases during or after the administration of the drug. Excitement occun-ed in 7 cases to a marked degree during or after ad- ministration of the drug. The anesthetics were invariably given on empty stomachs. Chloroform by means of a handkerchief or towel folded into the form of a cone, and ether by Mr. Morgan’s inhaler. Vomiting and excitement during or after administration of ether having occuiTed more frequently than one had been led to expect from former experience, the anaesthetic was carefully analysed and was found to be per- fectly pure, and of specific gravity 720'2 at 04° Fah. Page 80. 6.—HEY’S AMPUTATION. By “ Key’s Amputation ” is usually meant the disarticulation of the meta- tarsus from the tarsus, and the formation of a flap from the anterior part of the sole of the foot. But Hey describes three different amjmtations, only one of which coiTesponds to this method. In his “ Practical Observations, London, 1814, p. 550, he says, “I have judged it to be the safer method to take ^ away all the diseased integuments by a transverse and a longitudinal incision made at right angles to each other, and then to saw off the metatarsal liones as far as the morbid integuments extended.” _ At p. 553 he says, that in operating on a girl about 18, a method suggested itself to him of finishing the operation, which proved highly advantageous to the patient. Ha^’ing dissected out the metatarsal bones and removed the toes by a transverse incision made at their junction with the metatarsal bones, I elevated the integuments and muscles forming the sole of the foot, &c.” This operation was done in the year 1797. In the year 1799, p. 554, he states that he operated as follows. “ I removed all the toes at their junction, with the metatarsal bones, and then separated the integuments and muscles, forming the sole of the foot, from the inferior part of the metatarsal bones, keeping the edge of my scalpel as near the bones as 1 could .... I then separated with the scalpel the four smaller metatarsal bones at their .lunction with the tarsus, which was easily effected, as the joints he m a straight line across the foot. The projecting part of the first cunei- oim bone which supports the great toe, I was obliged to divide with a saw.”