707 EliYSIFELAS OF SEROUS MEMBRANES. z z 2 ration as the swollen parts above the opemng of the larynx fall together like a valve in the fonner act, while they are easily separated by air coming fi’om below in the latter. On examining the throat the fauces will not only be obsen'od to be much and duskily reddened, but by depressing the tongue the epiglottis can be felt, and perhaps seen, to be rigid and erect. Examination with the laryngoscope readily shows the condition of the parts to be as above described. Enlarged lymphatic glands can usually be felt early in the case behind the angle of the lower jaw. In the Treatment, local means are of the first importance. The tongue having been well depressed, the posterior part of the larynx, the epiglottis, and the aryta3no-epiglottideau folds must be well scarified by means of a hernia- knife, with which this operation may be most readily and safely done. If no better instrument be at hand in case of emergency, a very useful amount of scarification may be done by the nail of the Surgeon’s index-finger, notched with a knife to make it tear the mucous membrane more readily. The patient should then be directed to inhale the steam of hot water, and a large number of leeches may be applied under each angle of the jaw, to be followed by large and hot poultices; at the sanie time, the bowels must be kept weU opened, and the patient treated by antiphlogistic measures or otherwise, according to the condition of the constitutional fever. Most frequently, I have found anti- monials of great service in the early stages, followed later by support and stimulants. A few hours after the engorged tissues have been unloaded by scarification, the fauces, pharynx, and upper part of the larynx should be well sponged out with a strong solution of the nitrate of silver (sixty gTains to an ounce) which must be applied freely, coagulating the mucus, and taking domi the increased vascular action. If notwithstanding the employment of these measures, the dyspnoea increase, the face becoming pale, M^dd, and bedewed with a clammy perspiration, it will be necessary to open the windpipe to save the patient from impending suffocation. In doing this I prefer laryngotomy, for reasons that will be mentioned when I come to speak of the Diseases of and Operations on the Air-passages. In order, however, that this operation may be successful, it must not be too long delayed, and should not be looked upon as a last resource; if it be done in time (and time in these cases is most precious, owing to the rapid progress of the disease), the patient’s life may probably be saved ; but if it be deferred too long, congestion of the lungs wifi come on, the blood will cease to be properly arterialised, and the patient wll sink from slow-asphyxia, even though air bo at last freely admitted. If the patient survive to the stage of sloughing, chlorinated gargles, bark and support must be our chief reliance. ^ Erysipelas of the Serous Membranes is of common occurrence in sur- l^al practice, being frequently met with in the arachnoid and peritoneum. - ncse, like all other serous morabranes, are liable to two distinct forms of inflammation , one, which is sthenic, having a tendency to the formation of p as 1C ymph ; the other,^ which is diffuse or erysipelatous, being always accompanied by the exudation of aplastic unorganisablc material. of^nTrics^ofAraclmitis coumionly occurs as a consequence injuncs of the head and erysipelas of the scalp. There is usually a flushed C0„ntc„™c, Iright ,tori„g eyes, and low muttering deliril( footed