FRACTURES. Fracture low down, as when the shoulder is dislocated, and the hand is crushed, is not so serious ; the dislocation having been reduced, the limb may be amputated low down with safety. This practiee I had occasion to adopt some years since in a young man who met with a bad crush of the hand and fore-arm, with dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, in conscf|ucncc of the limb having become entangled in machinery. It; however, the compound fractiue, raiattended by any of the complications that have just been mentioned, occur in a young or otherwise healthy subject, we must, of course, attempt to save the limb, and shall generally succeed in doing so. TuEATJiEJfT OF CoMPouED Fractueb.—Ill the management of a compound fractm-e, more especially of the lower extremity, special apparatus, such as iMTiitp-e’s, Liston’s, or the bracket-splints, double inclined planes, swing-boxes, and fractm-e-beds, are often necessary, in order to obtain access to the wound, so as to dress it properly, and to place the limb in the best position for union. In many cases the starched or plaster bandage may very advantageously be used ; but it requires caution, as swelling and consequent strangidation of the limb may take place under it. There ai’e several points that require special attention. These are : 1, the Reduction and the Management of any Protruding Bone ; 2, the Management of Sphnters ; 3, the Closure of the Wound ; and 4, the Subduing Consecutive Inflammation. It is in carrying out these indications that the whole treatment of the injuries is involved, in those cases in which the limb admits of being- saved. The Reduction of compound fractures must be accomplished uuth the same attention to care and gentleness as in that of simple ones. In the majority of cases, no great difficulty is experienced; and after reduction, the hmb should be placed on a Avell-padded splint, properly protected in the neighbom-hood of the wound until oiled silk, so as to prevent soiling of the pads by blood and discharge. In some cases, however, considerable difficulty arises in the reduc- tion, from the protrusion of one of the broken fragments which has been driven through the skin, at the time of the accident or by careless handling of the limb in canying the jiatient, or else by the muscular contractions di-agging the lower fr-agment forcibly upwards, and thus causing perforation of the integu- ment. The protrudeci bone must, if possible, be gently replaced, by relaxing the muscles of the limb, and then bringmg the soft parts over it. Sometimes, however, it is so tightly embraced by the sldn, which appears to be doubled in underneath, that enlargement of the wound becomes necessary before it can be replaced. In other cases, again, reduction cannot be effected or maintained, unless the sharp and projecting point of bone be sawn off. This is best done with an ordinary amputating saiv, the neighboiming soft parts being protected with a split card ; or else by passing the blade of a Butcher’s saw under the bone and cutting upwards. The limb, as I have found in several cases inAvhich it has been necessary to have recourse to this procedure, is not ultimately Aveakened or necessarily shortened by it. After the reduction, the great object is, if possible, to convert the compomid into a simple fractime by the closure of the external -wound. No pains should bo neglected to effect this desirable end. If it can be accomplished, the tediousness and dano-er of the case are greatly lessened ; the patient being saved