INFECTION OF AIR. 197 hospital authorities make hut iusufficieiit pro’V'isioii for the separation of the most seriously Avoundecl fi'om patients labouring under these foul and filth- begotten diseases. But, setting aside the consideration of these impurities in the shape of vapoiu-s, gases and fcetors, AV'ith the nature and operations of Avhich we are but imperfectly acquainted, we may state the follo^nng points in regard to infective atmospheric dust as established.* 1. Air that is absolutelypime, chemically, optically, and mechanically, cannot' infect a wound. 2. There is no evidence that tramnatic infection can occur- from chemical impm’ities in the air, such as gases. 8. There is no endence that it can occur fii-om the admixture of organic aqueous vapour Avith the air. 4. The infection of AA'ounds is due to the implantation on them, or in the se- cretions adherent to their siu-faces, of solid organic particles suspended in the air. 0. The air of rooms and of all inlrabited places is loaded with sohd particles in the foi-m of impalpable dust, a great portion of which is organic. The quantity is so great, that under a poAverful beam of electric hght the air appears as a semi-solid rather than as a gas (Tyndall). 6‘. The organic constituents of this dust vary in quahty in different localities. No air is absolutely free. It is found in the purest mountain air (White), and is present in sea-air (Eattray). 7. Its composition depends on the locality in which it is found, and the sources fr-om which it emanates. Thus, on board ship, besides consisting of various solid impiu-ities, of vegetable and a,nimal origin, fr-om the stores, AA'ood, cordage, whiteAvash, &c., it contains impin-ities throAAui off by the skin and lungs of the crew (Eattray). In barracks and mihtai-y hospitals, the air contains floating particles of epithelium from the skin and mouth (Parkes). <S. This organie dust does not necessarily by any means consist of dead materials. It has been found to be largely composed of the spores of fungi, the largest portions of AA-hich are liAung and capable of growth and develop- ment. Bacterial matter has also been found in di-y dust (Cunningham). 9. Hospital and sick room air contains large quantities of floating cpitheHum fr-om the skin and mouth, disintegi-ating pus-cells and putrefying organic matter (Parkes), dried constitiients of pus, and possibly A'ery small hving organisms (Billroth)—^bacteria in abundance (Lund). 10. the amount of impirrity aauII depend upon the number of the patients and the nature of the cases in any gWen Avard. Over-croAvding of wounded patients pollutes the air Avith the emanations fr-om the Avoimds. If the proportion of Avounded in i-elation to the size of the ward exceed a certain latio, then infection of the Avounds infallibly occurs “ The infection of the A\hole body comes from the Avound ” (Billroth). The ratio of the Avounded to the size of a given Avard may be calculated ; and if it exceed a certain proportion, infection of Avounds aaIU be induced, and septic disease Avill bo t ev eloped, and their occmi-ence may Avith absolute certainty be predicted (“ Hospitalism,” p. 62). In the treatment of all Avounds, Avhether surgical or accidental, the fii-st * For ilutnils, vide “ llosiiitnUsiii,” &c., pp. G4, ct seq.