194 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. taken off without citlicv lip of the wound being unduly dragged upon. The strips should be allowed to remain undisturbed as long as possible, and each <me replaced before the next is remoyed. In a certain class of incised wounds, of limited extent, where the edges can be accurately adapted to one another by sutm-es or plaster, or by the combina- tion of both, and when but little oozing is to be expected, very fair union by scabbing may be looked for unthout any fiu'thor dressings. Indeed, some Surgeons prefer to treat such exteusive wounds as amputation-stumps in this way. The formation of the scab, however, may be hastened and imitated by the use of Collodion, painted freely over the line of incision with a camel’s hair brush, after the surface has been well dried, or of Styptic Colloid, which has the fiu’ther advantage of being hsemostatic and antiseptic. The film thus formed may be further strengthened by some shreds of chai^pie or fine lint. A second or third application of the collodion or styptic colloid will be required, if the crust show any sign of becoming detached ; otherwise it may be allowed to remain until it separates of itself, which it usually does in the coimse of a few days. Similarly, a piece of hnt soaked in blood, or in compound tinctme of benzoin, may be applied over the wormd, and under it, dfrect adhesion by a process analogous to that of scabbing may take place. When the wound is more extensive, and the simple measimes just described are impracticable, the edges are to be covered ufith a fold of hnt moistened in tepid Avater, to wliich carbolic acid has been added in the proportion of 1 to 100, over Avhich is laid a piece of oiled silk, or other impermeable material, a trifie larger in CAmy direction than the lint (water-di-essing), whilst the Avhole surface in the neighboimhood is kept cool by a piece of wet lint, or, if the inflammation threaten to run high, by irrigation. Some Siu’geons use the best olfre oil as an application in preference to water, as being more 8(Aothiug, less heating, and less prone to promote decomposition ; by others, a solution of sulphiu'ous acid is recommended (1 part of a satiu’ated solution to 7 or 8 of Avater). Carded oakum in place of lint has the advantage of being highly absorbent, cleanly, and antiseptic, but it is of greater service in suppu- rating wounds than in recent ones. The first dressings should be left unchanged for tAvo or three days ; the sutm-es may then be removed, and the plasters readjusted as they become loosened, care being taken to support the sides whilst doing so. One important point in the management of eA’ery Avomid, is to maintain, as much as possible, the injiu-ed structures in a state ot rpsf. This is to be done by position, the Sm-geon refraining fr’om distm-bing the parts unnecessanly, using his eye rather than his hand to judge of the | progress made, and by the use of compresses and bandages. Gompressos of soft" linen or lint should be so disposed as to aid in keeping the sides in apposition, whilst they prevent the collection of fluids in the recesses of the woimd ; the lanclaqes shoxdd be applied over them so as to exert a steady well- regulated pressure,'but not to impede the fi-ee circulation of blood in the pmt. 4. The next gi-eat point in the treatment of wonnds is the prevention of decomposition. The decomposition of the fluids of a atouikI is due to their infection by septic matter. In some cases it is possible that such septic infection may be the result of morbid states of the blood or tissues ot the patient. But these instances of self-infection are rare and exceptional.