474 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. In the Treatment of this chslocation, it is easy to effect the reduction of the bone by making a fulcrum of the fist in the axiUa, and then bringing the elbow Avell to the side, at the same time that an assistant puts his knee between the patient’s shoulders and bends them backbut it is difficult to retain the bone in proper position. _ To fulfil this object, the figure-of-8 bandage tightly apphed to the points of the shoulders, and crossed oxer a large pad placed in the middle of the back, will give the most efficient support to the part, the elbow being at the same time well fixed to the side and di’awn back. 2. The dislocations of the Outer £ud of the Clavicle, or more correctly, the dislocations of the acromion from the claiicle, are more commonly met Avith than those just described. The most fr-equent accident of this description is that in AA'hich the bone is thi’OAATi upon the Upper Surface of the Acromion, or upon the Anterior Part of the Spine of the Scapula. In several cases of this accident which have presented themselves at Unfrersity an inch and a half, the facility of the reduction of the dislocation, and the prominence of the claviculai’ portion of the trapezius muscle, indicate the nature of the accideut (Fig. 206). The Treatment of this injiuy is by no means satisfactory. Eeduction may easily be effected by raising the shoidder, diuAAdng it backwards, and carrying it outAvards by placing a pad placement. This is partly oAAdng to the shalloAAmess of the articidar surface of the acromion, partly to the tension of the trapezius, by AAffiich the acromial end of the bone is draAvn upAvards and outAA^ards, and in a great degree to the mobility of the shoulder. Reduction is best maintained by the application of College Hospital, there has been no difficulty whateAm* in the diagnosis. The prommence formed by the dis- placed bone upon the upper siu-face of the acromion, the narrowing of the distance from the mesial line to the point of the shoulder, to the extent of fr’om an inch to or the hand in the axilla and bringing the elboAV Avell to the side. But, notAAdthstauding the facility of re- duction, there is in many cases a great and, mdeed, an unconquerable tendency to the retinn of the dis- I'ig. 20fi.-—Dislooatiou of the Clavicle oil the Aeromiou.