INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 580 1. From the secondary effects of cerebral concussion it is not difficult to diagnose the consequences of concussion of the s])inal coi-d, in those cases in which the mischief is limited to the vertebral column, d'hc tenderness and rigidity of the spine, the pain on pressing upon or on moving it in any direction, and the absence of any distinct lesion about the head, will sufficiently mark the precise situation of the injury. The two conditions of cerebral and spinal concussion often co-exist primarily. The shock that jars injuriously one portion of the irervous system, very commonly produces a corresponding effect on the whole of it, on the brain as Avell as on the cord ; and the secondary inflammations of the spine, which follow the concussion, even when that is primarily limited to the ^ ertebral column and its contents, have a tendency to extend along the continuous fibrous and serous membranes to the interior of the cranium, and thus to give rise to symptoms of cerebral irritation. _ 2. From rheumatism the diagnosis may not always be easy, especially in the earlier stages of the disease, when the concussion of the spine and the consecutive meningitis have developed pain along the com-se of the nerves, and increased cutaneous sensibility at points. By attention, however, to the histoiy of the case, the gradually progvessive character of the symptoms ^ of spinal concussion, the absence of aU fixed pain except at one or more pomts in the back, the cerebral complications, the gradual occiin-ence of loss of sensibility of tinglings and formications, the slow supervention of impairment _ or loss ot motor power in certain sets of muscles (symptoms that do not occm in rheuma- tism), the diagnosis iviU be rendered comparatively easy ; the more so n hen we observe that in spinal concussion there is never any concomitant articu ai inflammation, and that, although the urine may continue acid, it does not usuallv show a superabundance of hthates. 3 Hysteria is the disease for which I have more frequently seen concussion of the Tine, followed by nieningo-myelitis. mistaken; and it has a ways appetod extraordinary to me that so great an error of dia|iMis ™ ' made Hysteria, whether in its emotional or its local foim, s a disease ot Ten rXr thLii of men, of the young rather than of the middle-apd and bj T-ntinned and complete intermissioim of.ts — ilno way resembles whid we ble to cail consecutive menmgo-myelitis , c (.-vp In mind -icciistomed to self-control, a case one of hysteria in which a man devoted to affected by a train of symptoms indi- infliction ot a severe shock, tiii _ ^ npvvoiis svstem. In reality, cative of serious and deep-seated diao'iiosis between chronic there can be but little difficulty - their slow meningo-myehtis and hysteria. _ Th p notwithstanding occasional development, their progressive inciease in seve y,