EXPULSION OF FOREIGN BODIES. 613 Isortlieni Hospital, a piece of Lone lying over one of the vocal chords was detected by the laryngoscope, and removed by means of long and sharply curved forceps. If, then, a patient be seen a few hoiu’s, days, or weeks, after a foreign body has been introducedliinto the aii’-passage, an examination vdth the laryngo- scope may be made ; and if the body be within reach, an attempt may be made to remove it by the mouth. If it be not in sight, inv'ersion of the body may be practised; and if both those means fail, or be inapplicable, tracheotomy ought to be performed. And this should be done, even though the symptoms be not urgent. There is often a remission in the symptoms, a period of deceptive secin-ity, by which the Sm-geon must not be j)ut off his guard. But, it may be asked, for what purpose is the trachea opened ? Why should not the foreign body be expelled through the same aperture by which it has entered ? The opening in the trachea performs a double piupose ; it not only seiwes as a ready and j)assive^outlet for the expulsion of the foreign body, but also as a second breathing aperture in the event of its escaping through the glottis. The advantage of the opening in the trachea as a ready aperture of expulsion is evddent from the^fact that, of 14 of the operated cases in which it is stated how the foreign body was expelled, I find that in 12 it was ejected through the artificial opening, whilst in 2 only did it pass out through the glottis. The reason why the foreign body usually passes out of the artificial opening in preference to escaping by the glottis, is, that the sides of the former aperture •are passive, Avhereas those of the latter are highly sensitive and contractile. Before the operation is performed, it Avill be found that the great obstacle to ■expulsion is not only the sensitiveness of the larynx, gi-eat UTitation being in- duced Avhen it is touched from within, but also the contraction of the glottis, by the closure of which not only is the exjpulsion of the foreign body preA'ented, but respiration is impeded. Every time the foreign body is coughed uja so as to touch the interior of the larynx, intense dyspnoea is produced, owing to sudden and imroluntary closure of the glottis, by which respii'ation is entirely pieA ented and suffocation threatened ; the expulsion of the body is consequently jested, unless it by chance take the glottis by surprise, and pass through it at once in the same way that it has entered it, without touching its sides. If there be a second breathing aperture, though the larynx is equally irritated by the foreign body,-yet this dyspnoea cannot occur, respiration being- can ied on uninterruptedly by one opening whilst the foreign body escajAes t uough the other ; and thus, in these circimistances, it may pass through the glottis Avith but little inconvenience. In some cases, the foreign body is expelled at once after the trachea has been opened; in others, not until some hoiu-s, days, or even Aveeks, have elapsed, ms, m Houston’s case, a piece of stick Avas not coughed up until ninety-seA'en ays after the operation ; and in Brodie’s case, sixteen days elapsed before the nali-sovereign came aAvay. ^y^’sion has in some instances been facilitated by inverting the patient is ^'^ck. In cases hi AA^hich the foreiqii. bod^’ woimdSr^'f""^’ proposed to introduce forceps through tlie womid m the trachea, and extract it. But, although in some instances this has