ILEMOFdlHAGE FROM ^yOUNDED VESSELS. 267 bciii«- made by a tenaculum or hook, it does not commonly close in this way ; and ”if hasmon'hage do not take place immediately, it will probably come on in the course of a few hours or days, from ulceration of the vessel. If the wound be still larger, there is always an amount of immediate haemorrhage proportionate to its size and to that of the vessel. The Direction of the wound in the artery influences materially its cha- racters. If the cut be parallel to the axis of the vessel, there is less tendency to ga])ing of the edges than if it be oblique. In trans\'erse wounds of arteries, the retraction of the coats is so great as to cause the woiuid to assume some- what of a circular appearance. If the artery be cut completely across, there is always a less degree of hmmoirhage than when it is partially divided ; for the retraction and contraction of the cut ends may then be sufficient to close the vessel, which is not the case Avhen it is merely wounded. AVhen the Avoiuid in the artery is subcutaneous, commmiicating only by an oblique and nairow apertiue with the siuface, little, if any, external htemoirhage takes place, but extravasation of blood occius. The extravasation may either be pomed into one of the serous cavities, or it may be diffused in the areolar tissue of the limb or part, infiltrating it deeply and extensively, and perhaps by its pressiue ultimately producing gangrene ; or it may be elfused in a more circiunscribcd manner, gi^rng rise to one or other of the forms of traumatic anem-ism (see Chapter XV.). HiEMOREHAGE PROM WOUNDED VESSELS. Local Sigxs.—The characters of the bleeding or hsemorrhage differ accord- ing to the natm-e of the vessel from which the blood escapes. When a Vein is wounded, the blood that is poured out is of a dark colour, and flows in an uniform stream ; the force Anth which this is projected depending on the conditions in AA'hich the wounded vein is placed. If there be any pressure between the Avound and the heard, as of a ligatm’e upon the A’essel; if the position of the part be such as to favoiu the gTaAntation of the blood towards the wound ; or if the muscles of the limb be made to contract, the force of the floAA^ of blood will be increased. VTien an Artery is AA'ounded, the blood that escapes is of a bright vermiliorr or scarlet coloru. It flows by jets, syrrehrorrorrs Avith the contractions of the left A entricle ; betAveerr the jets the floAv does not cease, but the streanr hecomes continrrous. Irr the great majority of cases the jet comes ouly frum the proxiirral ajrerture, dark blood issuing from the distal operring irr a corr- tinorrs aird trickling streanr ; but irr some situatiorrs a jet of blood of arterial character may issue from the distal as Avell as from the proximal errd of the cut A essel, as irr Avounds of the palmar and plarrtar arches, or of the arteries of blood flo\vs, the jet Icssoirs irr height, iir coirseqrrerrce 0 the AA^akcning of the heart’s action. The height arrd force of the jet irr all cases depend greatly on the size of the vessel; thus the jet from the femoral artery is stronger than that from a muscrrlar brarrch of the thigh, Wherr a small arterial branch is Avounded near its origirr frorrr the mairr trunk, the jet ■»! a ways be forcible and free ; so also the proximity to the ceirtre of the arculatronAvill iiiflireircc materially the force Avith Avhich the blood is nronelled rrom the Avoirnd iir the A'essel. ^