910 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ^bial nerve in cases of tetanus arising from wound of the sole of tlie foot, his iact appears to me to point rather to a primary nervous lesion than to . , 1 xo lo uiuc LuaG, wnen once tetanic exefrement has been set up in the cord, it has a tendency to continue and to be incapable of removal by the mere abstraction or cessation of the local irritation, which gave rise to it in the fii-st instance. It is, however, only reasonable to suppose, that other treatment will succeed best if local irritation be removed ; and, indeed, so long as this continues to keep up the centric nei's ous disturbance, no general means can be expected to succeed ; as they wall have not only to combat afready existing disease, but also to overcome the continuous excitement maintained by the local disturbance. Hence it is of importance to bring the wound into as healthy a state as possible, and to see that it is clean, free from foreign bodies, and not inflamed. In order effectually to remove all local disturbance, recourse has been had to amputation; but though this may have succeeded in checking some of the more chronie forms of the disease, yet other and milder local means have sufficed equally well, and in the majority of cases it has had no effect, and hence so severe an operation can scarcely be recommended for adoption. The division of the trunk of the injured nerve, at some distance above the wound, if there be one that has been pimctiu-ed or lacerated, has occasionally j)roved successful. Thus, in a case of tetanus following injury of the supraorbital nerve, Larrey cut this across, and the patient was cured. In a midshipman, in whom tetanus came on the day after the sole of the foot had been wounded by treading on a rusty nail, Murray divided the posterior tibial nerve, and thus cured the patient. In those cases in which no special nerve appears to have been injured, Liston’s recommendation of making a A-shaped incision down to the bone, and above the part, so as to insulate it completely, may be advantageously foUowed. After the nerve has been divided, or the part properly insulated, some solution of atropine may be carefully applied to it, so as still fiu’ther to lessen local iiTitation. In the Constitutional Treatment of the disease, it is necessaiy to bear in mind that tetanus is an affection of debihty, the violence of the spasmodic paroxysms giving an appearance of false strength to the patient; and that the principal source of danger and death is the fatigue and exhaustion induced by the energy of the muscular movements. The means adopted should, therefore, have for their object the removal of irritation and the support of the patient’s strength, so as to enable him to hold up against the disease. Nothing can be more unsatisfactory than the treatment of the Acute form of traumatic tetanus. In it, all medicines are useless as curative agents. But, though medicines are of no avail as means of cure, they may act as palliatives, and afford relief to the jDatient ; and much may be done by the Surgeon, by removing all sources of external irritation, to mitigate his sufferings, and to place him in a favoiu’able condition to withstand the exhaustion, and to lessen the torture of the spasms. With this view, the first thing to be done is to clear the bowels well out with an aperient dose; aided, if necessary, by a tiu'pentinc