niENOMEXA OF CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. 855 to say that the severity of the tertiary disease is in the inverse ratio of ^at of the primary, as wc may say ivith respect to the secondary, yet it may be afhrmed that the severity of the tertiary symptoms has no direct relation to the size, jicrsistence, or severity of the primary disease. The tertiary disease is more chronic, less contagious, and less easily heredi- tarily transmissible than the secondary. It differs in this respect also, that it is more characterised by localised hyiier trophies, by lowly organised plastic deposits, and less by acute inflammatory mischief and ulceration, than the^ secondary. Simon explains this fact by the gradual weakening of the syphilitic poison, which, in its stronger doses, capable of producing acute inflammatory phe- nomena, will in its more chronic and weakened form only be capable of dei'eloping hypertrophic changes and tumour-formations. lYe thus see a continuous chain of pathological sequence estabhshed betM’’een the ulcerated induration of the primaiy sore, the acute, often febrile, inflam- mation of the secondary disease, with its ulcerative tendencies, and the more chronic forms of tertiary syphilis, with its gummata and localised neo- plasms. Although the disease may continue to modify the system for years, or even for life, yet it seldom proves fatal. In some cases, however, death may occur, either by the cachexy that is induced, by the supervention of phthisis, or by caries of the skull or nodes of the drua mater, and disease of the brain and cord. Fatal and specifle syphilitic diseases of the limgs and brain have been described of late years with much care, though there still remains a good deal to be ascertained of the relation of syphilis to these changes in the brain and other viscera. It is especially when the disease has reached the tertiary stage, that it runs so protracted and tedious a course. When the syphilitic manifestations are conflned to affections of the cutaneous and mucous surfaces, the disease may, and occasionally does, wear itself out—the mate)-ies morU being apparently can’ied off by the secretions of these tissues ; and it is only in this way, I believe, that the affection can be eradicated from the system. That constitutional syi^hilis is dependent on the absorption of the syphihtic poison into the blood, and its consequent general diffusion tlmough the system, there can be little doubt. Not only is this rendered evident by the great variety of tissues and organs in which it manifests itself locally, but also in the induc- tion of the peculiar sy|Dhilitic cachexy. Phexomexa.—Constitutional syphilis may affect the following tissues and organs, and usually docs so in the order in which they are mentioned ;—viz., the skin, mucous membranes, periosteum, and bones ; the throat, tonsils, palate, eyes, nose, larynx, tongue, and testes. The first general disturbance of syphilis is often ushered in by febrile symptoms. In proportion to the severity of these, arc usually the rapidity of the progress and the extent of the local manifestations. In this febrile dis- turbance, the nutrition of all the tissues of the body becomes seriously im- paired, and the patient acquires a peculiar cachectic look. In other cases the patient gi’adually falls into a feeble and emaciated condition, becoming sallow and earthy-looking, with loss of hair, and depression of mental and bodily vigour. Ill this condition, not only arc the nutritive functions impaired, as is