PRINCIPLES OF LIGATURE. 285 Snr«-eons were anxious to avoid—the division of the coats of the vessel by the tio-hteniug of the noose—was that on which the patient’s safety depended ; he also pointed out the form and size of ligature that was most safe, the degree of force with Avhich it should he applied, and the processes adopted by nature for the occlusion of the vessel. "Chus a more rational practice was uitroduced, and then for the first time Sm-geons had full confidence in the use of the ligatiu’C. Principles of Treatment of Wounded Arteries by Ligature.—The whole of the doctrine of the general treatment of wounded arteries by ligature may be included in two great principles •. 1. To cut directly doion on the wounded and to tie the vessel there; and 2. To aioply a ligature to both ends, if it be completely divided, or to tlie distal as luell as the proximal side of ths wound, if it be merely punctured. These principles of treatment were distinctly laid dovm by John Bell ;* but, although this great Smgeon inculcated forcibly these rules of practice. Surgeons appear to have been led away by the erroneous idea of applying the Hunterian principles in the treatment of aneurism to that of wounded arteries, imtil Guthrie, by his practice and precepts, and by adducing an overwhelming mass of proof to bear on this important question, recalled the attention of the Profession to the proper and rational treatment of wounded arteries. 1, The principal reason in favoiu’ of cutting doivn directly upon the ‘wounded part of the injured vessel is, that the ligature of the main trunk at a distance above it only stops the direct supply of blood to the limb, but does not inter- fere with the indirect or anastomosing circulation, by which means the blood readily passes into that portion of the vessel which is beyond the ligature, and continues to escape from the distal apertme of the wound. Thus, though bright arterial blood may no longer jet from the upper part of the wound, blood which has become of a dark colom in consequence of the changes to which it is subjected in its passage through the vascular network of the limb, will continue to well out from the lower apertme in the artery, entailing the necessity of fm’ther operative interference to restrain its flow ; and, unless this be done, the patient will die of hEemorrhage as smely, though perhaps not qiu'te so speedily, as if no ligature had been applied. Thus, if a Surgeon endeavom’ to arrest the flow of blood from a wound of the ulnar artery near the pahn by ligaturing the brachial in the middle of the arm, and, when the blood bursts forth as furiously as e^er, apply successive ligatmes to the arteries of the forearm Avith as Kttle success ; he Avill at last, on account of the continued reciui’ence of hmmorrhage, be forced to adopt the simple expedient that ought to have been had recourse to in the first instance, namely, ligatming the A^essel at the point womided. Another reason for the practice noAv advocated is, that in some cases the Shirgeon cannot possibly know what artery is injured unless he seek for it in the Avound itself. A large artery may, Irom the direction of the stab and the impetuous floAv of blood that has foUoAved it, appear to be Avoimded, AA'hen in reality it is only a minor branch that has been injmed. Thus, for instance in cemoiThage from a stab in the axilla, Avhich proved fatal, notAvithstanding the igature of the subclaAdan artery for supposed Avound of the axillary the loiu'- loiacic Avas found to be the vessel divided ; so also the external iliac artery • * “ rrinciples of Surgery,” vol. i., pp. 350, 390, Svo. edit.