INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. i86 may be an-anged as follows :-l,ofthe Skin only; 2, with Extravasation into e Areolar Tissue; 8, Avith Subcutaneous Laceration of the Soft Parts ; and 4, with Subcutaneous Disorganisation of the Soft and Hard Parts! u tha first degree, the blood is merely effused into the skin, producing ecc j^osis 01 binise ; the colour of which varies at different iieriods fi’om pinp is 1-1 e to gieenish-broAvn, this variation being dependent upon changes that take place in the extravasated blood as it undergoes absorption. In the second degree a bag of blood can often be felt fluid and fluctuating under the skin, in Avhich state it may remam for AA-eeks or even months Avithout undergoing ^ any material change, provided it be excluded from the air. In othei cases it gradually becomes absorbed ; or, if it commmncate AAlth the air, the bag being opened in any Avay, it may undergo disintegration, suppiu-ation taking place aromid it, and the clots discharging through an abscess. In some cases it AA'ould appear, fr-om the observations of P. HeAA'ett and of Paget, that the clot resulting fr’om extiwasated blood may become organised and finally lienetrated by blood-vessels. The French pathologists have described the for- mation of a cyst containing serous fluid in the site of the extraA^asated blood. These cysts are composed of a fibrous structiue, but AA'ithout cells ; they liaA'e no distinct lining membrane, and in their interior serous or grumous fluid, composed of disintegrated blood, is fbiuid. In other cases the serous or fluid parts are absorbed, and the solid matters, forming cheesy concretions, are left behind. Lastly, cxtraA’asatcd blood may give rise to a sanguineous tumoiu, Haeiuatoina, the blood, Avluch may continue for months, or CA^en years, fluid, but stiU not imchanged, becoming darker, treacly, and more or less disinte- grated, and eventually intermixed AAoth A'arious products of inflammation. In the tim'd and fourth degrees of contusion the laceration and disorganisa- tion of structiues usually lead to sloughing and suppination, or to raj)id gangrene of the parts, or to hasmoiThage, ending in fatal syncope ; or, Avhen the contusion is of an internal organ, this hasmorrhage may proA'e fatal by taking jAlace into the serous cavities. When the contusion is superficial, the Inemorrhage is subcutaneous, and, though abimdant, is rarely in sulficient <|uantity to influence the heart’s action. In one remarkable case, hoAvever, in AA'hich a schoolmaster was convicted of manslaughter for beating a boy to deatli AA-ith a stick, and in which I Avas called to make a i30st mortem examination, death had evidently resulted, in a great measiue at least, fr-om this cause : the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the foiu- limbs being extensively torn away fr-om the fasciae, and uniformly filled AA'ith extraA'asated blood, AA^hilst the intenial organs were in an anaemic condition, the pulmonary A'essels and the coronary arteries of the heart even being- emptied of blood. Diagnosis.—This is not abi-ays easy. The minor degrees may be mistaken for incipient gangrene, the discoloration not being- A'ery dissimilar ; but the part, when simply contused, presei-A’es its temperature and A'itality. In some cases the extraA’asated blood has a hard circumscribed border, and is soft in the centre, AA'hich in the scalp resembles someAA'hat a depression in the subjacent bone. The diagnosis of old cases of extravasation, leading to hnsmatoma, fr-om abscess or malignant disease, is not alAA-ays easily made by tactile examination only ; but the history of the case, exploration Avith a grooved needle, and