SPECIAL FRACTURES. 434 cau be no difficulty in diagnosis ; all the signs of the latter being much more strongly marked than those of the former injury, as may be seen by the annexed Fable, the difference of age and the degree of violence required to break the bone being also important elements in the diagnosis. Dia(jnom helween Infra- and Extra-caimilar Fraciures of ihe Neele of the Thhjh-bone. Inlracapsular. 1. Cause generally slight and incliroct, such as catching the foot in the carpet or slipping off the curb-stone. 2. Force usually applied longitudinally or obliquely. 3. Age, rarely below fifty; most commonly in feeble aged persons. 4. Pain and constitutional disturbance slight. 5. No apparent injiuy to soft parts about hip. G. Crepitus often obscure. 7. Shortening ■ usually at first not more than one inch. Exlracapsular. 1. Cause usually severe and direct violence. such as falling fi-om a height or a blow on the liip. 2. Force usually applied transversely. 3. Age, usually below fifty ; chiefly in I vigorous adults. j 4. Pain and constitutional disturbance I usually considerable. ! 5. Considerable extravasation, ecchymosis, j and signs of direct injury to hip. I (i. Crepitus (when not impacted) very readily felt. 7. Shortening (when not impacted) at least two inches or more. It is more difficult to distinguish between the intracapsulao' fracture and the impacted extracapsular fracture. In the former case, however, the crepitus and eversion are more marked, and the injuiy usually occurs from less chrect violence than when the fractiu’e is outside the capsule. In the latter case, also, traction cannot restore the limb to its proper length as in the former instance. Scve7-e contusions of the hip are sometimes followed by eversion of the limb with inabihty to move it, so that at first sight it might be supposed that the bone was broken. In these cases, however, the absence of immediate shortening and crepitus will always estabhsh the diagnosis. Bnt though no immediate and sudden shortening can occiu’ without fractm’e, these contusions may be followed at a remote period by shortening of the limb ft’om atrophic changes in the head and neck of the femrm. When the injured hip-joint has been the seat of chronic rheumatic arthritis, and the limb is aheady somewhat shortened before the accident, the difficulty of diagnosis becomes great; here, however, the history of the case, and the fact of the shortening not being of recent occuiTence, will be sufficient to estabhsh the nature of the injiuy. The diagnosis of these injuries from dislocations will be considered in a subsequent chapter. The Treatment of the extracapsular ft-acture may very conveniently and efficiently be conducted by means of the long sphnt, a padded belt, if necessaiy, being strapped firmly round the hips undemeath it; or the plan recommended by Sh- A. Cooper, of placing the patient on a double inclined plane, with both feet and ankles tied together, and a broad belt, well-padded, firmly strapped round the body, so as to press the fragments of the trochanter firmly against one another, will be found an excellent mode of keeping the limb of a proper length, and the fragments in contact. Occasionally the fracture extends throwjh the trochanter major and upper part of the shaft without impheating the neck of the bone. Here there is shortening