Ill THE BLOOD IN INFLAMMATION. proved by the obsorwatioii of Lawrence, who found that in bleeding from both arms a patient with whitlow on one hand, more blood flowed from the inflamed than fr'om the sound limb in the same space of time. The dilatation of the vessels is at first attended with acceleration in the flow of blood, but, sooner or later, the blood-current is somewhat suddenly retarded and then gTadnally becomes slower until it stops altogether and stasis occurs. The retardation usually conmieuces in the veins, along the sides of which the white corpuscles may be seen moving sluggishly along, as pointed out by ]Mr. Wharton Jones, while the liquor sanguinis and red corpuscles flow more rapidly on in a central current. As the retardation becomes more advanced, the white corpuscles crowd more and more into the veins. When stasis has occurred, the red coiqDuscles which have accumulated in the cajDillaries adhere closely to one another and to the sides of the vessel. In consequence of the dilatation of the smaller arteries and capillaries, and the accumulation within them of large numbers of red corpuscles where, perhaps, only single files could penetrate before, j)arts previously pale may become brightly reddened. In this way for instance, the surface of the coii- junctiva may, in a few hoiu's, become very red, not by the formation of new ■\-essels but by the accumulation of blood in previously existing ones that are dilated. Besides undergoing dilatation, the arteries become elongated, tortuous, and waved, increasing in length as well as in diameter. The German pathologists —Kblliker, and Hasse, whose views are confirmed by Paget and Wharton Jones—have observed that the ai-teries of the inflamed part have a tendency to become dilated at points, so as to present small varicose or • anemismal pouches projecting from their walls, or fusiform dilatations of their whole diameter. The changes would appear to arise from one of two causes : either that the vessel is constricted at points between which it maintains its normal width, and thus that the dilatation is apparent and not real; or, that it is actually dilated where it appears to be so. This appearance of pai-tial dilata- tion is not, according to Virchow, confined to inflammation. 2. The Elood. Simultaneously with the above-mentioned alterations in the condition of the blood-vessels, certain important changes take place in the red and white corpuscles and the liquor sanguinis. As we have already said, the capillaries are packed ivith closely adherent red corpuscles, but it is the white coi-puscles m the veins that play the most important role in the inflammatory process. As long ago as 1841, Dr. C. J. B. Williams pointed out the fact that the white corpuscles are present in augmented nimibers in the vessels of an inflamed part, but it was Dr. W. Addison who, in the same year, first described a passage of the white corpuscles out of the vessels. This obsen-ation was confirmed in ] 84G by Dr. Augustus Waller, but appears to have been but little noticed until 1807, when Cohnlieim, of Berlin, published an accomit of obser- ^ations,m which he had seen both the red and the white corpuscles escapin«- ttirough the coats of the vessels without rupture of those. ^ The passage of the rod blood-corpuscles through the walls of the canilhrieci may be well seen, Cohnhcim says, in the web of the frog’s foot, when wno-es- CTOillar tying the femoral vein. Stasis in some of "the cp lies occurs m about a quai-ter of an hour ; and in less than an hoiu’ there