773 MELANOTIC SARCOMA. tissue or on the surface of serous membranes ; and Stratiform and Ltquiform Metanosis, which takes place principally upon serous membranes, or in acmdMital cavities, where the black pigmentary matter looks not unlike Indian ink. Uniy the second or tuberiform me- lanosis is truly a morbid growth, the others beingmercly varieties of pigmentation of pre- existing structures. Melanotic sarcoma is usually of the spindle-ceUed variety, but frequently contains large numbers of round or oval cells intermixed with the fusiform cells (Fig. 300). The spindle- cells are of lai-ge size, and there is no fibrous stroma. The pig- ment is seen as brownish gi-a- nular matter in the interior of a certain number of the cells, the rest remaining colourless. In the secondary tumours, it has been shown by E. J. Godlee that the new cells follow the lines of the vessels. These tumoins are usually shai-ply circumscribed, both to the naked eye and the microscope. They are soft, sometimes almost pulpy, round or oval in shape, and varying in colour from dark brown to the most intense black. They arise especially from structures in which pigment naturally Fig. 300.—Melanotic Sarcoma commencing in the Papillm of tile Skin (Malignant Mole). (40 diam.) a. Supei-ficial Epidermis. 1). Deeper layers of Epidermis, ivhicli is deficient to the ’ right of the drawing. . . , c. Prolongation of the Epidermis mto the centre of the d. &iinoma tissue, chiefly non-pigiiiented hut -with scattered melanotic patches. e. Connective tissue round the tumour infiltrated with small round cells. f. Sunmmding connective tissue with vessels. Mg. 301.—Melanotic Sarcoma, from a Secondary Tumour ill the Heart. Figure to right (188 diam.) shows the different degrees of pigmentation and variety of shape in the diflerent cells. Figure to left (454 diam.). From a fresh scraping, illustrates the difl'er- eiices in the size of the pigment-granules. Fig. 302.—Melanosis of Eye—natural size. The eye has heen divided in the antero- posterior diameter. The tumour slanted from the choroid and afterwards hurst through the sclerotic. exists, namely, the skin and choroid coat of the eye-ball (Fig. 302). They may, however, occasionally arise primarily in the lymphatic glands. They are