782 TUMOURS. n cancerous infiltration 1 • ri f! ^ considerable distance around the tumour into integument Aidiich to the naked eye appears quite healthy, but Avith the microscope Avill afford unequivocal evidence of the existence of cancer-germs diffused tLugh It It extends like a halo around the original tumour, and very probably shades off into the surrounding textures. It is of great importance in determinino- the question of operation to bear this in mind, and not to act on the supposition of the tumoim being abruptly defined. The secondaiy deposits from scin-hous tumours may take place in the viscera more particularly the Imigs or liver, or in the lymphatic glands ; in the fonner situation they are often encephaloid, in the latter they assume the scin-hous form. Structure.—After a scin-hous tumom- has been removed, though still feelino- firm under the fingers, it is not so hard as A^hen it Avas in the body ; oAving, as Walshe observes, to the escape of its fluids and consequent loss of tiir- gescence. On cutting it Avith the scalpel, it usually creaks somcAvhat as it is cliAdded, and presents a A\-hitish or bluish-Avhite glistening sm-face, intersected by Avhite bands, -which apparently consist partly of ucav structure, partly of included areolar tissue. This section has not inaptly been compared to the appearance presented by a cut through a turnip or an unripe pear, hence tei-med napiform and apinoidhj Walshe ; and, from its reticulated character, carcinoma reticulare by Midler. A curious feature about scin-hous cancer, in Avhich it differs from almost all other tumours, is that it becomes cup-shaped on section. This seems to be due to the fact that in most scin-hous tumom-s a kind of process of cicatrisation takes place in the central parts, -while the peripheral parts are stdl growing. The cells undergo fatty degeneration and break up. The greater part of the 23roducts of degeneration are absorbed, and only a narrow streak of granides Fig. 305.—SciiTlms of Breast (1S8 cliam.) The communieation of the alveolar sjiaees hetween one another and the continuity of the contained masses of cells is well shown. The contour of the individual cells is seldom definite, and the nucleoli, as a rale, are not seen. may be left to represent a once large accimiiilation of cells. It is this shrink- ing of the groAA-th that drags in the nijiple in scirrhus of the breast, and