683 CAUSES OF HOSPITAL GANGRENE. became sharp-cut and defined, and the ulceration extended fui'ther m the skin by an eio-hth or a quarter of an inch than in the subjacent areolar tissue, i most inslanccs the disease was confined to the skin and areolar tissue, exposing but not usually invading the muscles and bones, though in some cases these were affected. The ulcers were somewhat circular, and Avere siUTOunded by dusky infiamed arcolm of some width. When once the morbid _ action was stopped, they cleaned rapidly, throAving out large vascular granulations. ^ Constitutional Symptoais.—In the early stage these may exhibit evidence of active fibril disturbance, with high temperature and quick pulse. But they soon subside into symptoms of asthenia and prostration. In the majority ot cases they folloAV the local iiwasion of the sore ; Blackadder, Hollo, Belpec , and WcUbank have all found this to be the case, and in the instances at Uni- versity College Hospital it certainly was so. Hennen and Thomson, on the other hand, state that the constitutional symptoms precede the local. In this I believe them to be certainly in error. They have confounded that state of iU health which occms in the wounded Avho are confined in the foul and reek- ing atmosphere of an over-croAvded military hospital, and which, predisposes to the invasion of hospital gangrene, or of any other septic disease, Avith the symptoms produced by the phagedasna itself. Causes.—All Avoimds and sores are hahle to be attacked in this Avay, but the disease most fi’equently affects those that are of recent origin ; the more chronic affections, and those that are specific, A'ery usually escape. It is m mihtary hospitals, dining actiA'e warfare, that sloughing phagediena is noAA" chiefly met with. The experience of many wars has led incontestably to the conclusion that hospital gangrene will certainly be dcA^eloped amongst the wounded if they are aggregated in large numbers under one roof, howcA’er large and well ventilated may be the building ; whilst, amongst the wounded Avho are treated in the open, or in “ hut-hospitals”—mere temporary sheds—it is all but uuknoAAm. Ho better illustration can be given of the undoubted fact that the disease is primarily generated by a septic, i.e., poisonously putrid state of the atmosphere occasioned by the accumulations of the exhalations from the wounds, bodies, excreta, and clothes of many injiued people collected into one building. Ovm-croAvding of patients, more particularly those Avith suppiuating Avoimds, in the same Award or room, is the great occasioning cause of hospital gangrene and sloughing phagediena. I belieA’e that in this way the disease may at ,qny time be produced. The last outbreak that occiured at University College Hospital Avas clearly referable to that cause, and to that cause only, more than a quarter of a century ago. In one of my wards, Avhich is intended to con- tain 15 or IG patients only, OA\dng to accidental and unaA^oidable circum- stances, 21 patients Avcrc admitted, and slept for one night, many of them haA’ing suppurating Avounds. The result Avas an outbreak of hospital gangrene, Avhich spread through the Institution, and Avas most serious and persistent. Next to overerowding, I believe that the most fertile causes of this disease are want of elcanliness and ventilation, and the retention of soiled and dirty dress- ings. The accumulation indeed, of animal exhalations from the sick and wounded, is a cause of various forms of Ioav fever and of allied diseases ; and hospital gangi-ene, when it occurs in these circumstances, may be taken as