SUBLUXATJON OF THE KNEE. the ham, compressing the vessels to such an extent occasionally as to an-est the circulation through the lower extremity, lacerating the ligaments, and stretching the muscles in this situation. The tibia projects forwards, its head forming a considerable prominence on the anterior part of the knee, with a deep depression immediately above it and the patella, which is rendered more evident by the relaxation of the extensors of the thigh ; the leg is usually rotated somewhat inwards or outwards, and there is shortening to the extent of about two inches. These antero-posterior dislocations are very commonly incomplete. T\Tien this is the case, they present the same symptoms, but in a less marked degree, than characterise the complete displacements. In the Treatment of these dislocations, extension shoidd be made from the ankle whilst the thigh is fixed in a semifiexed position. When the leg has been dravm domi sufiiciently, proper manipulation will bring the bones into accurate position ; sphnts must then be apphed, means taken to subdue local inflammation, and the joint kept perfectly at rest for two or three weeks, at the end of which time passive motion may be commenced. Subluxation of the Knee, or ‘‘internal derangement of the knee-joint,” is a more frequent accident than any of those that have just been described. It usually ocem-s fr'om the patient, whilst walking, striking his toe against or tripping upon a stone, when he is suddenly seized with acute and sickening- pain in the knee, often so severe as to cause him to fall. Before doing this, however, he is conscious of having strained or otherwise injured the joint. On examination it will be found semifiexed, the patient being unable to extend the limb properly, and every effort being attended by severe pain; and the edge of the semilunar cartilage may usually be felt projecting under the skin. In the course of a very short time the joint becomes swollen, being distended by syno- vial secretion; and symptoms of subacute synovitis speedily appear. This accident, originally described by Hey, and since investigated by Sir A. Cooper and others, occurs in consequence of the semilunar fibro-cartilage slipping away fr’om under the internal condyle, either before or behind it, so as to bring the surface of the condyle and that of the tibia into direct apposition. The severe pain that is always expei-ienced is owing in aU probabihty to the nipping of the loose folds of synovial membrane that he within the joint—the so-called mucous and alar ligaments, and also to the great stretching of the ligaments by the partial displacement of the bones. dhe Reduction may be effected by flexing the joint, and then, when the muscles are off their guard, the patient’s attention being directed elsewhere, rapidly extending it at the same time that a movement of rotation is commimi- cated to the leg. The evidence of complete reduction consists in the restoration of the power of extending the articulation. The synovitis that usually foUows this injury requires to be treated by local antiphlogistic remedies and rest. After it has been subdued, the patient should wear a laced knee-cap, as the joint will be weak, and hable to a recurrence of the injury. Complications.—Dislocations of the knee-joint are more liable to serious complications than those of any other articulation. Hot only are the ligaments tom, and the muscles injured, but stretching, and perhaps laceration^ of the popliteal vessels, followed by gangrene of the limb, may occur ; or the joint may faU into a state of suppinative and destructive inflammation.