185 CONTUSIONS. CHAPTER IX. INJUKIES OF SOFT PAPtTS. These consist of Confusions and Wounds. CONTUSIONS. In a Contusion tlie skin is unbroken, but there is always some laceration of the subcutaneous structures. Indeed, great disorganisation of these occasionally takes place, though the skin continues entire, owing to its greater elasticity and touglmess. Hence a contusion may be looked upon as being a subcutaneous lacerated wound. In contusions there is always extravasation of blood into the tissues to a greater or less degree. When slight, this extrayasation is termed an ecchyniosis. The blood is not shed outwardly, but accumulates imder the skin in the areolar tissue, or in internal organs, presentmg in the former situation the ordinary piu-plish-black discoloration of a bruise. The amount of blood extrawasated wiU of course depend upon the yascularity of the part contused. The arrest of the extravasation takes place in a great measme by the eifused blood pent up amongst the tissues, coagulating over and compressing the torn vessels which have poured it forth, and thus restraining the fm-ther escape of blood from them, and aUovdng the ordinary process of repair of wounded vessels to take place. Causes.—Contirsions may result from direct pressure, as Avhen a part is forcibly squeezed ; fe’om a direct Mow, usually by a hard blunt body ; or from an indirect blow, as when the hip-joint is contused by a person falling on his fcqt fr’om a height. Gompo'ession of the parts injured is always irecessary to constitute a con- tusion. This compression may occiu' between the force oir one side, and a l)one as the resisting medium on the other ; or the part injured may be compressed and contused between two forces in action—as when the hand is caught between two revolving wheels ; or between a force in action and a passive medium—as by a Avheel passing over the limb and crushing it against the ground. Deurees.—The amoimt of extravasation of blood consequent on a contusion ■''ill necessarily maiidy depend upon the force employed in its production, but also^ to some considerable extent upon the state of health of the individual bi-uiscd. In persons out of health, with soft tissues and the Idood in a low state, bruising very readily occurs. Contusions arc of various degTces : they