TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. i5r imtler fibrous expansions where there is much tension ; also when it is situated deeply in the areolar planes of a limb, under the larger muscles, where it has a tendency to diffuse itself extensively. In those cases, likewise, in which pus is lodged in close proximity to a joint or under the periosteum, it must be let out early; so also, when it presses upon mucous canals or important organs, as on the urethra or trachea, or when it is dependent on the infiltration of an imtant fluid into a part, as in minary extravasation, it must be evacuated without delay. The pus should always bo let out early, before the skin covering it is thimied, when the abscess is situated in the neck or in any other part where it is desirable that there should be as little scamng as possible. In Chronic Abscess, the rule of siu’gery is not so explicit. Here the collec- tion is often large, coming on ^vithout any very evident symptoms and giving rise to no material inconvenience; but, if it be opened, putrefaction of the pus, con- secjuent uiJon the entry of air- into the extensive cyst, vdll give rise to the most serious constitutional distiu’bance, setting up initative fever, or giving rise to pyemia ; and, should the patient escape this danger, the drain of an abundant suppmation may speedily waste him. Hence, it not uncommonly happens that a patient may cany a chronic abscess unopened, vdthont any very serious distinbanee, for many months or even years ; but when it is once opened, he dies in a few days. If, however, the chronic abscess be so small that no danger is to be apprehended from the inflammation of its cyst, or if it be situated in parts where it may give rise to dangerous pressure, the matter should be let out without delay. There are thi’ee modes by which abscesses may be opened, each of which possesses advantages in particular cases ;—these are InrAsion, Tcqjpmg with a trochar, and making an apertme into the cyst mth Caustic. Incision is the only plan that should be practised in acute abscesses. For this pinpose a laneet, an abscess-bistoiuy (Fig. 7G), or a sickle-shaped knife, maybe Fig. 76.—Abscess-Bistoury. used, incision should be made either at the point where fluctuation is most distinct, or at the most dependent part of the tumour, so as to prevent a ei ago mg of the matter. It should bo made by holding the bistoiuy or ancjc s 011, and introducing it perpendicularly into the softened part. If the depth to be reached be considerable, a bistoury should be used, the blade of m *1^ ^ -f n roimd after its introduction, when the pus wells flio 1 f coiititiued tor a modemto extent in the direction of hu t Illw , n “ f “llo"' tto "-'Ils of the abscess to collapse, Hit It Should not be forced out by squeezing the sac. ^ fill iSi Zd 1 the cavity of the abscess is ^vith blood by the rupture of some small vessel situated in its waUs; this,