VARIETIES OF ULCER. 169, integument is congested, and matted to the subjacent parts ; there is usually v ery little subcutaneous areolar tissue about it, the skin being firmly fixed to the subjacent fascia ; and it Avould appear as if it were in consequence of this want of a vascular substratum from which to siting, that granulations do not readily arise. There is no pain attending this ulcer; and its surface, which often attains a very large size, may usually be touched without the patient feeling it. Treatment.—The principle of the treatment here is twofold ; to dejjress the edge, and to elevate the base of the sore. This is effected by pressure and stimulation conjoined. The old and very efficient plan of treatment that used to be adopted is as follows. The treatment should be conunenced by rubbing the siuface of the ulcer and the surroimding congested integument with nitrate of silver ; a linseed-meal poultice should then be ajDplied for twenty- four hoius, after which the sore should be properly strapped on the plan reconmiended by Baynton. The best plaster for this purpose is the emplas- tnmi sajwnis, to which some of the emplastrum resince is added to make it sufficiently adhesive ; this, spread upon calico, should be cut into strips sixteen or eighteen inches in length, and about an inch-and-a-half in width ,- the ccntie of the strip should then be laid smoothly on the side of the limb oj>po- site to the sore, and the ends, being brought forward, are to be crossed ob- liquely over it. Strip after strip must be applied in this way, until the limb is covered for a distance of a couple of inches above and below the ulcer. If the sore be near the ankle, this jomt shoidd be included in the strapping. Each strip of plaster should be applied with an equal degree of pressiue, Avhicffi may often be considerable, and it should cover at least one-third of the pre- ceding strap ; the limb must then be carefully bandaged fr-om the toes to the ^nee. Under this plan of treatment, the edges will subside, the smface of the sore voU become florid, and gTanulations yielding abundant discharge will speedily spring up. Much of the success of this plan of treatment will "depend upon the close attention that is paid to it. If the skin be iiritable, no resin- plaster shoidd be used, but merely the soap or lead ; and the plasters should be changed at least every forty-eight hoius. If the discharge be very abun- ant, small holes should be cut in the strips to aUow it to escape, men by this mode of treatment the edges of the sore have been brought down, and the gi-anulations sufficiently stimidated, an astringent lotion with bandaging may advantageously be substituted for the plasters. Another and more efficient method consists in—1. Painting the whole surface of the idcer and the neigh- honinng callous parts with ethereal solution of cantharides ; 2. Applying carbo- iscd water-dressing or oakuin-]ioultice for a few days; 3. men granulations nave spnuig up, transplanting a row of skin-grafts within the edge of the sole ; 4. Continuing antiseptic dressing and pressure with clastic bandao-es Irritable Ulcer is mostly met with in women about the middle period of ^or bilious temperament. It is usually of ™il S.7.C and aituatod abont the ankles, or upon the shin. Ito Xe U’ msa.ar, but not elevated, the surface is g.-oyish, covered with a Ih C*