95 AMPUTATION TIIItOUGlI TUB CONDYLES, cnlar method. Of these, that l)y the long posterior flap should never be employed, nnless, from exceptional circmnstances, no other flap can be obtained. Carden of Worcester was the fh’st to employ the method of amputation by the long anterior flap in this situation. He took away the patella and made no postenor flap but subsequent operators have found that without a postenor flap the coverino- is frequently insufficient. The operation is therefore usuaUy performed as follows. The finger and thmub of the left hand arc placed on the two con-^ dyloid eminences of ffie femur, wffich serve as guides for the starting points of the incision. A long anterior flap is then marked out, well roimded m shape, and reaching as low as the tuberosity of the tibia. This is dissected up either with or without the pateUa. In cases in which the Surgeon is hesitatmg between excision and amputation, the joint may be examined before proceeding further and the operation deteimined on. When the anterior flap has been raised, the knife is passed behind the femur, and a posterior flap, nearly equal in length to the anterior, is cut from within outwards. This flap contains the hamstring tendons, and usually a part of the muscles of the calf. It conse- quently retracts considerably after being cut. The flaps being held back, the knife is swept round immediately above the cartilage-covered siuTaces, and the saw carried through the bases of the condyles parallel to the articular siu’face of the femim, that is to say, slightly obliquely to the axis of the shaft. Stokes of Dublin has recommended that the patella should be left in the flap, and its cartilaginous surface sawn off so as to form a raw bony surface to be applied to the cut end of the femm. As a modification of these operations. Lister has recommended an amputation by a modified circular method, which is thus performed. “The Surgeon first cuts transversely across the front of the limb, fr-om side to side, at the level of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, and joins the horns of this incision by can-yuig the knife at an angle of forty-five degrees to the axis of the leg through the skin and fat. The limb being ele'S’ated, he dissects up the posterior skin flap, and then proceeds to raise the ring of integument as in a circular operation, taking due care to avoid scoring the subcutaneous tissue ; and, dividing the hamstrings as soon as they arc exposed, and bending tlie knee, he finds no difficulty in exposing the upper border of the patella. He then sinks the knife through the insertion of the quadriceps extensor (Fig. Gl), and, having cleared the bone immediately abo^'e the articular cartilage and holding the limb horizontally, he applies the saw vertically aird at the same tiirre transversely to the axis of the limb (not of the bone) so as to ensme a horizontal surface for the patierrt to rest oir.” Wherr the'soft parts are much thickerred, as in disease of the knee-joint, the patella may Ire raised in the flap and the leg removed by cutting the errreial aird lateral ligaments. Ho groat difficulty will therr be found in exposing and sawing off the corrdyles of the femur. The admirtage of this operation is that, if it be carefully perfonned, the chance of sloughirrg is reduced to a mirrimrmr. All these amputations require very carefrrl drainage, as the pouches of the synovial membrane of the knee are very liable to fill with accumirlatiorrs of serous fluid. The advantages of this operation over arrrputatiorr of the thigh higher up are rrudoubtcdly great. The limb being removed at a greater distance from the trunk, the shock to the system Avill be less, and the rate of