INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 6o6 otf 01 paitly to detach the epiglottis and the folds of mucous membrane around it. In othci cases, the edges of the glottis or the arytaenoid cartilages are injiucd, the cut extendiug back to the bodies of the vertebrm. Here also there arc great difficulty in swallowing and great risk of the sudden siipeiwention of oedema of the glottis, and consequent suffocation. When the Larynx is wounded the incision is usually transverse ; but I have seen a longitudinal cut made through the larynx, so as to split the thyroid and ciicoid cartilages perpendicularly. In these cases of wounded larynx, there is much danger of the blood from the superficial parts trickling into the air- passage and asphyxiating the patient, and of inflammation of the bronchi and lungs siipei-vening at a later period. Wounds of the Trachea are not so common as those of the larynx, from which they differ but little in the attenklant dangers. The CEsophagus is seldom wounded, as it can only be reached through the trachea by a deep cut, which will probably impheate the large vessels. Effects.—There are various soiu’ces of danger in wounds of the neck im- pheating the air-passage. The luwiorrliage, whether it proceed from any of the larger trunks, or consist of general oozing fi’om a vascular surface, may either prove directly fatal by the amount of blood lost, or indirectly in conse- quence of the blood trickhng into the air-tube, and, by accumulating in its smaller divisions, producing suffocation. Asphyxia may supervene, either in the way already mentioned, or, when the wound has been inflicted above the larynx, from the occurrence of oedema of the glottis. It may hkewise occur when the external opening is very small, and occasionally happens suddenly when the wound is nearly closed. Another source of danger is the loss of the natural sensibility of the glottis, in consequence of which it no longer contracts on the application of a stimulus. Hence food taken in by the mouth may pass into the larynx and appear at the extenial wound, even though neither the pharynx nor the oesophagus has been wounded. This I have observed in many cases of cut throat ; hence the presence of food in the wound cannot in aU cases be considered an evidence of injiny to the food-passage. This occurrence is always a bad sign, and is never met with until a semi-asphyxial condition has come on, by which the nervous sensibilities are blunted, or until inflammation has been set up about the rima glottidis, giving rise to so much swelhng as to interfere with the natural actions, and to deaden the perception of the part to the contact of a foreign body. In these cases also the sensibihty of the air-passage generally is much lowered, so that mucus accumulates in the bronchi, even to a dangerous extent, the patient not feeling the necessity for expectoration, and often, indeed, ha’ving much difficulty in emptying his chest. The occiuTence of bronchitis and pneumonia, either from the inflammation extending downwards from the wound, or in consequence of the cold air entering "the lungs directly, without being warmed by passing through the nasal cavities, is perhaps the most serious complication that can happen, and is a frequent cause of death in jjatients who siuvive the immediate effects ot the wound. The depressed mental condition of the patient also is usually unfavourable to