PYyEMIA. 722 embolism of the brain paralysis Avail follow, whilst in that of the linm dyspnoea is most prominent. The immediate local effect of the occlusion of a vessel is the production of intense congestion in the surrounding parts, which is usually followed by haemorrhage and the consequent production of the haemorrhao-ic infarcts .commonly seen in these cases ; the changes which subsequently take place in the part affected will depend upon the facility with which the col- lateral circulation is established, and upon this also will depend in great measure the maintenance of its vitality. The appearance produced by these changes will vary with the structure of the particular organ in which they occur, with the character of its vascular supply, and with the exact point at which the body has become impacted. For a full account of these peculiarities, the reader must consult special works on Pathological Anatomy. It must not, however, be supposed, that the occurrence of embolism and pyasmic abscesses stand invariably in the position of cause and effect; it is only under certain conditions, at present imperfectly imderstood, that the foimer may give rise to the latter. It is, indeed, a matter of common occm-rence to find hasmorrhagic infarcts in the spleen or kidney, or more rarely in the liver or lung, without there being any reason to suppose that the patient had, at the time of their occmTence, suffered from any pygemic symptoms. It is, in fact, the character of the embolon itself that determines the subsequent results, and there is no reason to believe that a simple embolon, whether arterial or venous, has any tendency to set up acute inflammatory changes at the spot where it" lodges, merely by its mechanical action. On the other hand, if the embolon be impregnated with the infective j)roducts of unhealthy inflammation, or of decomposition, wherever it lodges acute inflammatory changes, culminating in abscess or gangrene, must necessarily result. This has been experimentally proved by Virchow, Crnveilhier, Panum, Savory, and others, by the mtroduc- tion of small solid masses into the circulation. It was found that when the foreign body was in itself unirritating, as wax. India-rubber, &c., only the ordinary changes due to the local disturbance of the circulation followed its impaction in the pulmonary vessels ; but when it possessed chemical or me- chanical irritating properties, inflammation invariably occurred. The effect was most marked when the embolon consisted of animal matter in a state of decomposition. Savory showed that putrid pus or blood-clot, injected without being prevriously Altered, always gave rise to pygemic abscesses in the hmg, while the same fluids, carefully filtered, produced no abscesses, but gave rise to intense fever and symptoms of general blood-poisoning. Pygemic abscesses may, however, occur in an organ having no direct vnscular connection with the part in which the original lesion exists, and in circumstances which render it im- possible to conceive that any sohd particles could have passed from the one to the other ; we must, therefore, seek for some other cause to account for their formation, and this will lead us to the subject of blood-poisoning. 8. The third condition which is present in many cases of so-called pygemia, and which is probably the actual cause of many of the symptoms, is that of blood-poisoning, Ichorrhaemia or Septicaemia, due to the absoiqDtion of ichorous or of putrid matter, and its entrance into the circulation. This subject has been inv''estigated experimentfdly by a very large number of observers during the last ten years, amongst Avhom Ave may mention, as the