627 PLEURISY AND EMPYEMA. out first entering the cavity of the pleura. Milton has described a form of traumatic emphysema that arises from the ru])turc of an air-cell or bronchus without any external wound. The air, passing into the posterior mediastinum, and finding its Avay along the nerves and vessels in this situation, escapes thi'ough the ccnucal foscia which closes the upper part of the thorax, and thus reaching the neck, diffuses itself along the sheaths of the arteries and nerves, aloi]g which it finds its way into the limbs ; its appearance in which is first indicated by its extending along the course of the vessels. When emphysema is complicated with fracture of the ribs, and the air suiTounds the fractured ends of the bones, I have seen extensive suppuration in the areolar tissue, so that the broken parts of the fractured ribs lay bathed in pus. This will occur when the emphysema is the result of puncture of the lung by the broken rib, vithout any wound in the skin. The Symptoms of Emplujsmna are very distinct. There is a puffy swelling, pale and crackling when pressed upon, at first confined to the neighbour- hood of the wound, if there be one externally ; if not, making its appearance opposite the fractured ribs, and gradually extending over the ipjper part of the truidc and neck. To these parts it is usually limited: in some cases, however, which are happily rare, the swelling becomes more general, the body being blowii up to an enormous size, the features effaced, the movement of the limbs interfered with, respiration arrested, and suffocation consequently induced ; after death, air has been found in all the tissues, even under the .serous coverings of the abdominal organs. In traumatic pneumothorax the auscultatoiy phenomena are very distinctly marked ; there is a diminution or complete absence of the respiratory murmur and of vocal fremitus on the .affected side, with a loud tympanitic resonance on percussion, puerile respi- ration in the soimd lung, and considerable distress in breathing. 3. Pneumonia is an invariable sequence of wound of a lung, and constitutes ■one of the great secondary dangers of this injury; the inflammation neces- •sary for the repair of the Avound in the organ haAdiig frequently a tendency to extend to some distance around the part injured, and not uncommonly to teiminatc in abscess. Traumatic pneumonia resembles in all its symptoms, auscultatory as well as general, the idiopathic form of the disease. There are the ^ same crepitation, duhiess on percussion, and tubular breathiuo as hepatisation advances ; with rusty sputa, much tinged with blood in the early stages. It differs, hoAvever, from the idiopathie form in haAino- less tendency to diffuse itself throughout the lung, and in being limited to the neighbourhood of the part, and to the side that is injured. lienee it may •occur m any part of the hmg—the upper and middle lobes—and only iuA-ades he base of the organ if that happen to be the seat of wound. It has also a .^ca ei endency than the idiopathic form to terminate in abscess, Avhich wcAci, IS often dependent on the lodgment of some foreign body sucli ■< ■ a piece of Avaddmg or elothing, in the substance of the organ. Traiunatie ■tiouT'?'"'? froni eonstitu- < causes, and is attended by more acute and active febrile disturbance or not r 1 ^ by tbrcct open wound, and Avhethcr the luno- be iniiired not, ,„t. in, and tha vcp.ir of the injury in”the ™ S S 2 1