GENERAL REMARKS ON' OPERATIONS. 28 removing small and superficial tumours, extremely valuable. For all such purposes, however, it is he mode of using t]\c frigorific mixture is as follov's. About a tumblerful of rough ice is put into a strong canvas bag, and finely powdered with a mallet. It is then poured out on a sheet of paper, and half its bulk of salt is ciuickly mixed with it by means of an ivory or wooden paper-knife. The mixture is. then put into a muslin or gauze bag, suspended from a wooden ring, and applied to the part for from five to ten minutes. So soon as the skin becomes Avhite, opaque, and hard, anesthesia is produeed, and the incisions may be made- Avithout any pain being experienced. The frozen part speedily recovers itself no inconA'enience resultimr. ’ The rapid evaporation of higlilg rectified ether has been A'ery ingeniously and successfully applied by Dr. Eichardson in the production of cold sufficient to fr-eeze a part, and thus render it temporarily insensible. A fine spray-jet of ether of a low specific gravity is throAra upon the part to be amesthetised. The skin rapidly becomes Avhite and hard—is, in fact, fr’ozen. This method of iiidncing local insensibility to pain is more exact and efficacious than that by the fr-igorific mixtime, and is generally preferred. It is applicable in the same class of cases. PERFORMANCE OF AN OPERATION. The Incisions for the operation itself should be carefully and properly planned, so as to giA'e sufficient space with as little mutilation as jiossible; and in some cases they must be aiTanged with the Aiew of subsec|uent extension, should the state of things be discoA'ered to require it. They should be made freely, AAuthout tailing ■ the ^Aoint of the knife being entered and withdraAAOi perpendicularly, and made to cut Avith a rapid saving motion, due attention being at the same time paid to the resistance of the tissues,, so that the Surgeon may not, by using too much force, plunge or jerk his scalpel or bistomy into the part. The scalpel should be set on a smooth ebony handle, aaEIcIi is less sb’iqAery than an iA’ory one when Avetted Avith blood, and admits greater delicacy of touch ; it should be light in the blade, nearly straight-backed, and slightly bellied on the cutting edge. When very free and extensive incisions are required, as in the removal of large tumours, &c., Liston’s spring-backed bistoury, of proper size and shape, is a most convenient instrument. Whilst the incisions are being made, care must be taken that too much blood is not lost. This may be prevented most conveniently by the- use of the tourniquet, or by an assistant compressing the main artery of the- limb. Many operations may be rendered comparatively bloodless by raising the part or limb before the artery is comj)re8sed or a tomniquet is applied, so as to empty the A'essels of their contents. If the seat of the ojDeration be such as not to admit of this, the assistant must compress the bleeding vessels, as- they are divided during the operation ; and as soon as it is concluded he must remoA'e his fingers fr’om them, one by one, to admit of their being ligatured, or twisted. Bloodless Methods.—Various devices have been employed for many yearn past to diminish the loss of blood. The oldest of these is bandaging the lim)A firmly to the Ica'cI at AAEich the tomniquet is applied, before tightening the