747 FATTY TUMOURS. rpi npnr most frcquontlv ill the subcutaneous fat about the neck and .1 Ipi-s and are occasionally met with between or even in muscles, in t e ^ 1 Vnnrl of ioints and of serous membranes and of mucous canals, some- S.wths would »carocly bo looked for Tlras I removed some time since a lipoma three mebes in eng i, ani thick as the thumb, from under the annular ligament and the palmar fascia ot a vomm ivomaii. A very curious circumstance connected with these s Uiat“they occasionally shift their seat, slowly gliding tor some distance ftom the original spot on which they grew i thus, Paget relates cases “ tumoims shifted their position from the groin to the perinanun or tto tlngh^^^l have known one to descend from the shoulder to the breast. hei gr o su eiidally, they sometimes become pedunculated. They f ™ ^ ^ size but only oec.asion ineonvenicnce by their pressure or bulk; sometimes they appear- in gi-eat numbei-s, upwards ot 250 tumours of various sizes hamng lieen found in the same individuah They i-arely ulcerate or inflame, nor do they undere-o any'ulterior changes of stiTictm'e. . . . , ^ The typical lipoma is simply a mass of fat, usually differing in structiu’o ni no way from the ordinaiy subcutaneous adipose tissue (Fig. 27G), but it is no uncommon to find crystalline deposits of the fatty acids in the cells. It is inclosed in a fine thill capsule ha^'ing small vessels ramifying oi'er its sur- face. This capsule is adherent to the surrounding structures, but loosely connected unth the tumour itself, so that, in ope- rating for the removal of these gi’owths, it is important tho- roughly to open the capsule before attempting to remove the tumour. These tumoiu’S, which pre- sent the least possible devia- tion from the normal struc- ture of the parts in which they grow, arc derived from the con- nective tissue by an increased development of fat. They present occasionally some minor varieties of structure. Thus the fibrous tissue may be in excess, giving rise to the so-called “fibrous lipoma,” or the tumour may be permeated by niunerous dilated vessels, as in the “ erectile lipoma.” These conditions arc, however, rare ; occasionally mucous tissue may be found intermixed with the adipose, forming the “ myxo-lipoma.” d'his will be again mentioned under myxoma. In the Treatment of fatty tumours little can be done except by extirpation with the knife, by ■which the patient is speedily and effectually rid of the disease. The tumour, being cncapsuled and but loosely adherent to adjacent parts, readily tunis out if the capsule be fr-cely opened. Great care must be Fig. 27(3.—Fatty Tumour (1S8 diam.) Some of tlio cells show oiystftls of fatty acids.