FllACTURE OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 455 powerful contraction of the strong muscles of the calf, the posterior part of the os calcis is torn away from the rest of the Ijone. ^ • . .f _When the os calcis is shnply broken through at its posterior part behind the insertion of the lateral ligaments, the detached fragment will be ch-awn up by the action of the strong muscles of the calf. But when the ti-ac- ture occui-8 across the body of the bone, no displacement can take place, Giving to the lateral and interosseous ligaments keeping the posterior fragments in position, and preventing its being drawn away. In the fii’st form of fractm-e, the pain, swelling, flattening of the heel, and prominenee of the maUeoli, indicate the natine of the injury, even though crepitus be wanting. In the second vai’iety, the mobility of the fragment, and its projection posteriorly by the action of the muscles of the calf, point to the existence of the fractme, which is confii’med by the occmrence of crepitus. In the Trecdmeni of these injmies, subduing inflammatory action, keeping the part fixed by means of bandages and splints, with due attention to the re- laxation of the muscles attached to the tendo Achillis, by flexing the leg and extending the foot, are aU that can be done. Union probably occiu’s by bone in some cases, though very commonly by fibrous tissue. The Astragalus alone is rarely broken. Ten recorded cases of this injmy have been collected by Monahan : in nine of these the fractiu’e occurred from falls from a height on the foot; in one only from direct violence. I have seen two cases of fr'actme of the astragalus without implication of any other of the tai’sal bones. In one case it was the result of direct violence ; a cart-wheel passing over the foot occasioned a fractiu'e of the astragalus through its neck. There was no material displacement, but the line of fr’actiu’e could be readily felt, and crepitus was very distinctly eheited on flexing and extending the foot. No better treatment can be adopted in such a case than the starched or plaster bandage. In the other case the fractm’e was the result of indirect violence, the patient, a man about 30 years of age, falling from a height of about eight yards, and alighting on his feet. Here the fractm-e was evidently occasioned by the foot being forcibly di-iven up into the maUeolar arch, so that the astragalus was broken across transversely just in front of the surface that articulates with the tibia—the hue of fracture rumiing ob- liquely downwards and backwards, so that the whole of the upper and posterior part of the bone was detached. This large fragment was widely displaced, being drawm outwards and backwards, so as to lie between the fibula and the tendo Achillis, lacerating the skin to the extent of about one inch longitudinally, and pro- jecting through the opening thus made. The foot presented a singular degree of deformity, which is rcjn-csented in the an- nexed figm-e (Fig. 203). The outer mal- leolus projected gi-eatly; and immediately behind this the displaced fragment could be felt and seen partially pro- truding through the rent in the skin. The inner malleolus Avas depressed ;