CONTUSIOX OF THE EYE. 599 on account of tlie proximity of the brain; thus a pointed body, such as a piece of stick, the end of an umbrella, or a knife thrust into the orbit, may perforate its superior Avail, and produce a fatal wound of the brain. The injiuy to the brain through the orbital plate of the frontal bone may be fatal by the cerebral inflammation that is induced ; or the thrust may extend deeply, and, lacerating the internal carotid artery, occasion fatal hmmoiThagc. In one remarkable case recorded byXelaton, a young man was woimded by the thrust ■of the point of an imrbrella in the orbit; the cavernous sinus and internal carotid artery on the opposite side were Avounded, an arterio-venous aneurism formed, the eyeball became prominent, and death j&.’om hmmorrhage eventually resulted from the giving Avay of the aneurism. Occasionally inflammation is set up in the loose cellulo-adipose tissue contained in the orbit, gmng rise to abscess AA'hich may point in either eyelid ; or to inflammation Avhich may extend to the encephalon. In other cases, Avounds of the orbit may be fol- loAved by loss of Aision, AAithout the eyeball being touched ; either in conse- <pience of injury of the optic nerve, or at a later period fr-om the dhision of some of the other iierA'es of the orbit producing sympathetic amaurosis, as occasionally happens CA'en from ordinary Avouuds of the face implicating some of the teiminal branches of the fifth pair. Eyeball.—Injiuies of the eyeball are so commonly folioAved by impairment or total loss of vision, as to constitute a most important series of accidents ; the delicacy of the structiue of this organ being such, that injury of it is often followed by complete opacity of the lens or other media and loss of sight. The impairment of vision may be the result of direct violence ap- plied to the organ, injming its more transparent parts or displacing the lens ; or it may arise indirectly from various causes which will be presently de- scribed. The injiuies of the eye produced by direct violence, may be divided into contusions and AA'ounds. Contusion of the Eyeball, AAithout rupture or apparent injiuy of any of its structures, may gii’e rise to such concussion of the retina as to be foUoAved by temj)orary or permanent amaiuosis. More frequently contusions of the eye are accompanied by extravasation of blood under the conjunctiA^a, and much ccchymosis of the eyelids. A “ black eye ” is best treated by the continuous application of a AAcak spirit lotion. Contusion of the Eye with Rupture of some of the Structures of the Ball is a most serious accident. The cornea may be ruptiued, the humours lost, and vision permanently destroyed. Most fr-equently the ruptiuc is internal, the outer tunics escaping all injury. In this case we may have an c.xtravasation of lilood into the eyeball, completely tilling the anterior chamber, hiding and complicating deeper mischief within the globe ; or there may be hemorrhage into the vitreous body, AA'ith or Avithout detachment of the retina. This condition, termed haemophthalmia, is fr-equently associated Avith separa- tion of the ciliary margin of the iris. In other cases, the crystalline lens may be driven into the vitreous humour, be engaged in the pupillary aperture, or fall torwards into the anterior chamber. As a consequence of such injuries, the eye usually becomes inflamed, Avith intense fr-ontal and circuuiorbital pain -'dis- eiganisation of the ball, and ultimate loss of vision ensuing.