INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 526 screaming, micoiisciousncss, with convulsive twitchings of the limbs and face, commonly occur mth the ordinary symptomatic fever ; and lastly, symptoms of coma, rapidly terminating in death. In the subacute encephalitis, the same appearances are v’ery generally found after death, as in the more acute form of the alfection ; but commonly the arachnoid membrane is principally affected. So constantly is this the case, that some Surgeons have proposed, and not altogether Avith injustice, to apply the term arachnilis to this form of traumatic encephalitis, looking upon the inflammation of the arachnoid as the principal lesion. 2, Intracranial Suppuration.—This may be of three distinct kinds:— a. Suberanial ; h. Intrameningeal; c. Cerebral. a. The Suhcranial form consists in the deposit of pus betiA'een the skull and the dura mater. It ahvays occurs at the point struck, and is hmited or circumscribed. It is nei'er the result of contrecoup. Three conditions may lead to this variety of intracranial su]ipiu’ation. a. A blow on the head which, Avith or without wound of the scalp or fracture of the skull, causes a separation of the dura mater from the bone, leaving a cavity in which inflammatory effusions and eventually pus collect. |3. A bloAV on the head causing necrosis of the bone, either by simple severe contusion, or by detaching it from the dura mater and stripping off the peri- cranium—thus distm-bing its vascular connections, and so giving rise to sup- puration imder the injured portion of bone. y. The irritation of splinters of the inner table in cases of ordinary depressed or of punctured fractines of the skull, causing chronic inflammation of the dina mater and eventual suppuration. In these cases it is often foimd associated Avith one or both of the next varieties. &. The Intrameningeal form consists in the accumulation of pus, or of greenish puriform lymph, in the caAuty of the arachnoid, or in its deposit L the pia mater. It is usually widely diffused, most generally beneath the part struck ; but sometimes on the opposite side of the head, always more towards the v’ertex than in any other part. It commonly occins in persons of low Autahty—in jiysemic cases—and is associated Avith typhoid symptoms, _ _ . c. The Cerebral form is usually met Avith as a distinct circumscribed abscess in the white substance of the hemispheres, often associated Avith the last variety, and occim-ing in individuals of Ioav or unhealthy habit of body. It may occin 1. At the seat of injiny ; 2. By contrccoup;^ or, 3. It may be the consequence of the lodgment of foreign bodies in the brain. The formation of pus Avithin the skuU is a sequela of much interest in injinies of the head ; and an endeavour has been made, especiaUy by Pott, to lay doAvn rules by which its occiuTence may be accurately detennined. ^ Thus it has been said that if, dining the continuance of encephalitis, fits of shivenng come on, followed by the gradual supervention of coma, Avhich sloAvly becomes more and more complete, whilst the constitutional symptoms of inflammation do not subside ; and if, at the same time, a puffy sAvelhiig form upon the iiniiijined scalp, or the Avoiind, if there be one, become pale and cease to discharge, the pericraiiiiun separating fr’om the bone, which is seen to be yellowish broAVii and diy, an abscess will have formed imder the skull; aiic