E 2 INFLUENCE OF SHOCK. Oufc of a total of 031 amputations occun-ing in metropolitan hospitals, in which 239 deaths occnrred, 110 died from shock and pymmia together, being 17-0 per cent, of the whole operated on, or 40 per cent, of the total deaths— and this is iiTespectire of those that are reported as dying of “ exhaustion,” which is closely allied to shock, or fi’om “ erysipelas,” “ low celluhtis,” and fonns of septic disease other than pymmia. This ten-ible disease proved fatal in as nearly as possible 30 per cent, of all the deaths, and shock in about 10 per cent, of the deaths, or in 3’8 per cent, of all the amputations. But the respective influences of these tivo great causes of death after ampu- tations will be found not only to vaiy greatly, according as the operation is primary, secondai'y, or foi’ disease, but also to exercise very different degrees of influence in different hospitals. Shock was most felt in primary amputations, in the proportion of 25 per cent, of the deaths ; was but little fatal in secondary amputations, 6 per cent. ; and was entirely absent as a cause of death in pathological amputations. Pyrnmia was fatal in about one-third, or 33 per cent., of the primary ampu- tations, and in 44’4 per cent, of the secondary; and in those for disease it again acquired nearly the level of the primary—viz. 34’6 per cent, Pymmia is proportionately more fatal after amputations of the upper than of the lower extremity, occasioning about 40 per cent, of the deaths in the former, against 34 per cent, of the latter, after amputations for all causes. In primary amputations the disparity is more marked, being about 50 per cent, of all deaths in the upper, against about 32 in the lower hmb ; shock, on the other hand, being more fatal by far after primary amputations of the lower than of the upper extremity, owing doubtless to the larger mass removed. The influence of shocJc is necessarily most felt in primary amputations. Indeed, its fatal results are almost entirely confined to amputations performed within twenty-four hours of the infliction of the injiuy. I have never known a case of intermediate or secondary amputation, or amputation for disease, in which the patient died from this cause. Fatal shock, in fact, is the result of the combined depressing influence of the uijm-y and of the operation. It occurs in exact proportion to the severity of the injmy, the amount of loss of blood, and the age of the patient. It is often rather referable to the injury than to the operation ; and it becomes a question whether, in many cases of serious and almost hopeless smash of a limb, it might not be better to let the patient expire in peace, than subject him to the repetition of a shock which his nervpus system ■will l)e utterly unable to endure. This is more especially the case in extensive crush and disorganisation of the lower extremity up to or above the middle of the thigh, such as are not unfrequent at the present day from railway accidents, in which the mangling of the limb rather resembles that produced by cannon-shot than by an ordinaiy injury of civil life. In these cases amputation through the upper third of the thigh, or at the hip-joint, is the only available operation. It is usually done in such cases. But is it ever successfifl in the full-grown adult ? That is a question which deserves the serious consideration of hospital surgeons. I am not acquainted with a single case in which such an operation has succeeded in general hospital practice in men who have airivcd at full maturity. In children and yoimg adults it has proved successful. The three cases in Avhich it was done, out of the eighty