^34 INF LAMM A TION. ■\vliicli holds out a lu'ospoct of saA'iug the patient’s life consists in the early and- free administration ol tonics and stimulants, Avith mild nourishment, such as. ammonia and bark, Avinc, brandy, or porter, Avith beef-tea and aiTOAvroot; and ot these, large qiiantities may be required in the four-and-tAventy hours, the- patient CAancing a tendency to sink AV'heneA'er their use is interrupted. Although stimulants be freely administered in these cases, the food should be bland and capable of easy assimilation. It is Avorse than useless to give meat, &c., Avhen the patient cannot digest it; but beef-tea, eggs, and farinaceous food, may be. giA'en in large quantities A\’ith adyautage. The brandy-and-egg mixtiu’c of the Pharmacopoeia, if aa'cII made, combining nutriment and stimulus, is the best, remedy that can be administered in many cases of Ioav inflammation. Under this plan of treatment the tongue AA'ill be found to become moist, the- broAAui sordes to clear off from the inside of the mouth, the piflse to become steady and full, sleep to be procured, and the strength maintauied. The- more I see of sm’g-ical inflammation, the more confidence do I feel in thist stimulating plan of treatment, Avhich is the only method of carrying patients through those Ioav forms of visceral inflammation that are so fr’equent in hospital practice. The liability to these inflammations aaiII also be materially lessened by the early employment of a stimulating plan of treatment afteu injuries and operations. As the asthenic passes into the iiTitatfr'e form, avc may find it necessary to combine opiates Avith the general treatmeirt. In the Ioav forms of inflammatory fever, congestive prrerrmonia and astheiric brorrehitis fr’equerrtly srrperverre. Irr this complication, the folloAvirrg draught may be advarrtageorrsly giverr every third or foru-th horu’ :—Tirrctm’a?. Cam- phorm comp, rq xx. ad. xxx., Ammonim Carbonatis gT. v. ad. x., Decocti Serregre 5 iss. Rubefacients, blisters, or dry crrppiug may also be applied to the chest. The dianhoea that not urrfreqrreirtly ocerms mrrst be met Avith opiates and- astriugerrts ; arrd if the urirre carrnot be passed, it mrrst be draAnr off by the- ca theter. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. The precedirrg descriptiorr is principally applicable to acute irrflammatiou arrd it rroAV remains to give a brief srrmmary of the distinctive characters of the chrorric form of the disease, arrd to describe its treatment. Pathology.—In aerrte irrflammatiorr, the changes that take place irr the vessels and in the blood are strorrgly marked and more or less rapid irr occur- r-ence ; arrd the modifications of nutrition Avhich the part rrndergoes are mostly of a temporary character, and hold a secondary relation in point of importarree to the other conditions. Irr chrorric inflammation, on the other harrd, the changes in the nutrition of the part form the principal featrrrc. Billroth, hr describing chr'onic irrflammation, says : “The disterrsiorr of the capillary^ vessels, or fluxion, is a less promirrerrt symptom, Avhile the ncAV forrnatroir of tissue and serous irrfiltratiorr seem to play a more promirrent role, infiltratioir of the tissue takes place irr fcAV' cases, as it does irr acute rnflamrira- tion ; brrt the irrdiA'idrral cells ofterr attairr a rather more complete dcA clopuicnt. Iir this process of dcvclopmerrt the irrtcrcclhrlar tissrre charrges ; the comrectiAe tissue filaments lose their torrgh filamerrtary consistency, the disterrsrbility and