INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 540 feet IVom a j^rcat height, when the shock has fissured the occipital hone I'roin the edge ot the foramen magnum outwards. The great danger in tliese cases arises from the concomitant injury to the brain, either by direct laceration or by the extravasation of blood under it. Though most usually fatal, these inju- ries are not invariably so. Not only does it occasionally happen that patients with all those signs of fi'actiu’o of the base of the skull, which will immediately be described, are seen to make a complete recovery, but in the different Museums specimens illustrative of recovery after this accident may be met with, 'f'hus, in the College of Surgeons’ Museum, there is the skull of a person who lived two years after a fractiu’e of its base. Signs.—Fracture of the base of the skull is very commonly suspected when symptoms indicative of serious injmy to the brain speedily follow a severe blow upon the head. Those parts of the nervous centre that are most im- portant to life are more liable to injmy in this than in other fractures of the skull; the same violence that occasions the ffactiu’e injming the contiguous portions of brain, or lacerating some of the large venous sinuses at the base of the skull, and thus giving rise to abundant intracranial extravasation of blood. These symptoms are necessarily in the highest degree ecpiivocal; and much anxiety has consequently been manifested by Siu’geous to discover some special sign of the occurrence of this particular fi’acturc. The signs of fracture of the base of the skull will necessarily vary according to the seat of injury. When the fissin-e extends through the anterior fossa, there may be extravasation of blood into the orbit or eyelid, or fr’ee ha3mor- rhage from the nose. When it implicates the middle fossa, there is, in all probability, fr’actine of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, v\dth ruptin-e of the tympanic membrane, and then there will be bleeding or a watery dis- charge from the ears. 'When the posterior fossa is the seat of injmy, the signs are more equiv'oeal, unless the fissure extend forwards to the petrous portion of the temporal bone, vvfren the more characteristic signs will ocemv There are two signs, the occurrence of which, separately or together, leads to strong presumptive evidence of the existence of this kind of fracture. 1. The Escape of Blood from the interior of the Craniiun through the ears, nose, or into the orbit; and 2. The Discharge of a Serous Fluid from the Ears, and occasionally from other parts in connection with the base of the skull. 1. The occinTence of Bleeding from one or both Ears after an injmy of the head cannot by itself be considered a sign of much importance, as it may arise from any violence by which the membrana tympani is ruptm’ed, without the skull being necessarily fractm-ed. If, however, the htemorrhage be con- siderable, trickling slowly out of the external auditory meatus in a continuous stream, if the blood with which the external ear is filled pulsate, and more especially if the bleeding be associated v\dth other symptoms indicative of serious mischief within the head, and if it have been occasioned by a degree o violence sufficient to fracture the skull, we may look upon the hasmorrhage as strong presumptive evidence that a fr’acture of the base of the skull, extenc in^ into the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has taken place, and t lat, pci haps, one of the venous sinuses in its neighbourhood is tom. i.ive sccu patients recover without any bad consequences from copious aiiia icemoii 111^,0 after severe head-injury. The evidence therefore is only picsumpivc, 1