GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 228 If the ImlM lodge, it, together with foreign bodies accompanying it, such as pieces of clothing, must be extracted through the Avound, or cut out by a counter-opening. This second opening is often of great utility in affording a ready exit for subsequent discharges, &c. Palpation of the limb or region struck will often lead to the discovery of the buUet, Avhen it lies amongst the muscles or beneath the skin. A consideration of the direction whence the bullet came, and the position of the patient when hit, Avill often direct attention to the spot where the ball has lodged. If possible, the same position of body or limb should be assumed ; the track of the bullet will thus be straightened, and the finger or probe can be carried down to it more readily. In searching for bullets and other foreign bodies, care should be taken not to probe the wound unnecessarily from mere curiosity, or so as to excite irritation; in many cases, the introduction of the finger is far more useful than that of the probe. The advice given by Ambroise Pare, three himdi-ed years ago, with regard to the examination of gun-shot wounds, can scarcely be improved upon. After advising that the examination of the Avound be made as soon after the injiuy as possible, before swelling and inflammation set in, he says : “This is the principal thing in the performance of this work, that you place the patient in just such a postiue as he Avas in at the receiving of the Avound ; for other- Avise tfie various motions and turning of the muscles Avill either hinder or straighten the passage forth of the contained bodies. You shall, if it be pos- sible, search for these bodies Avith your finger, that you may the more certainly and exactly perceive them. Yet if the buUet be entered somewhat deep in, then you shall search for it Avith a round and blunt probe, lest you put the patient to pain.” The extraction of the iullet should be accomj)lished Avithout delay, before inflammation has set in, and the lips and sides of the wound have become swollen. As Macleod justly obseiwes, the extraction of the ball not only removes a soiuce of physical irritation and suffering, but also of mental disquietude. The mind of the patient becomes more tranquil and easy. Bullets cannot be allowed to remain lodged in the body with impunity. It is true that in some cases they become encysted, and so cease to irritate ; but in the great majority of instances they produce suffering and constitutional dis- turbance, and may at last occasion fatal mischief ; for, although a bullet may continue fixed for years, yet it may at last, imder the influence of muscidar action, gravity, or the absorption of fat, begin to move and to give rise to injm-ious consequences. If any foreign body be very tightly fixed, so that it cannot easily be removed, it must be left till loosened by suppmation. Some- times a bullet is firmly fixed in the cancellous structme of the articular end of a bone. It may be removed thence by means of an eleA'ator or by the screw- ^ Various instruments are used for the detection and removal of bullets and other foreign bodies. There is usually no material difficulty in detecting the presence of a bullet, by means of an ordinary steel probe of sufficient length In some cases of peculiar and exceptional difficulty, Avheie t e ii e ’s c) deeply in the cancellous structure of a bone, or amongst swoUen and infiltrated tissues, its presence may be detected by the ingenious deAice a^ op e ly N61aton in the case of Garibaldi, of passing a probe armed AAuth a piece ot im- glazed porcelain doAAm to the suspected site of the bullet, and seeing if a streak ! l| \ .1