MANAGEMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 189 outwards, the trunks are divided first, and the terminal branches being thus paralysed, do not feel the subsequent incision. The amount of Hamorrhage necessarily depends upon the vascularity ot tnc part as well as on the size of the woimd. The proximity of the part wounded to the centre of the circulation, or to a large vessel has also a A'ery considerable influence different parts of the same tissue bleeding with different dcgi-ees of fieility • ’thus the skin of the face yields when cut more blood than that of the leo- Aouin, the same parts will, under different states of irritation, poim out different quantities ; the cut smface of the tonsils has been known to bleed after their partial excision to such an extent as to cause death, although usually but a few drops ai’o lost. The Separation of the Lips of the Wound depends on the tension and the position of the part as well as on the elasticity and vital contractility of the tissues ; it is also influenced by the direction of the incision, according as this is parallel with the axis of a limb or muscle or across it. It is greatest in those parts that are natmaUy the most elastic or that possess the highest degree of tonicity ; thus the muscles when cut retract some inches, the arteries and skin gape ■widely Avhen di’^ided, whereas in the case of ligaments or bones, no retraction takes place. Maxagement op Incised Wounds.—In the treatment of an incised Avound, we must alAA’ays endeavom to procine inmiediate union (p. 172) or miion by pri- mary adhesion (p. 174) betAA'een a portion, if not the whole, of the siufaces, for reasons affeady assigned. The probability of procming adhesion depends greatly upon the constitution of the patient; it is a decided and most dangerous error, and as unscientific as it is dangerous, to suppose that success or failiue is entirel}'' dependent on local conditions and the management of the AA’Oiuid itself. In some constitutions it is impossible, luider the most favoiuable circumstances, to obtain it. The sounder the constitution, the more readily Avill union by the first intention take place, and in all cases it is disposed to by the remoA’al of all sources of UTitation from the system, and by the adoption of a supporting regimen. Repair, like all other physiological processes, is attended AAuth an expenditure of vital force directly proportioned to the extent to Avhich plastic material is separated from the blood ; hence anything approaching to a loAvering plan of treatment is to be aA'oided, though the opposite error of over-stimu- lation is equally to be deprecated. Thus, in those operations, the plastic, for instance, in which it is necessary that the union be as direct as possible, the patient should be prepared by being kept for some time preAdously upon a diet ■chiefly consisting of milk and light animal food, by taking regular exercise, ■and by the administration of iron ; Ave should also look specially to the state of the digestive and luinary organs. In cases of accidental Avound, aa'c must keep the patient quiet, put him on a moderate diet, and be very cautious in the administration of stimulants, as they have a great tendency to interfere Avith union by the first intention. It must be borne in mind, that the great ■object is to limit inflammation ; for if this be carried beyond Avhat is necessary for plastic effusion, suppurative action Avill certainly folloAV. We inust not lose sight, too, of the fiict, that homogeneity of tissue in the opposed siufaces is essential to union by the first intention. I7hen these arc soft and uniform in stincture, as in the face or perimeum, union Avill readily take place Avhen the