CARBUNCLE. 675 they take place they are often extremely tedious, crop after crop continuing to be evolved. In many cases they must be looked upon as salutary, as being the means adopted by natime to rid the patient of morbid matters that imtate the constitution, and which might, if retained, produce disease in it. Hence, after an outbreak of boils, the health often gradually improves. Treatment. The Constitutional Condition, on which the disease is dependent, requires to be cai-efully attended to. Ho one remedy is capable of curing boils. The disease is the result, in some cases, of fault or defect in nutriSon ; and the gi-adual modification and improvement of those processes that are subservient to it are necessary before the local eruptive affection will cease to appear. In other instances, it appears to be due to want of proper elimination of effete materials. Hence less is often to be expected from medicines in these cases, than from a general regulation of the hygienic con- dition of the patient. Hature will do more for his recovery than art; and the utmost that the practitioner can do is to administer such remedies as will assist in the improvement of the constitutional condition. If he be debilitated and cachectic, iron, quinine, sarsaparilla, and cod-liver oil; if he be plethoric, and his system loaded, purgatives, salines, and liquor potassee wiU be appro- priate. In the one case an abundant nourishing diet, in the other case a spare and simple one, with avoidance of stimulants, will be required. In some cases, empirical means are of service. Thus, when the disease is associated with pompholyx, or preceded by painful vesicles, arsenic may be of benefit. In other instances, yeast or charcoal has been advantageously given. The Local Treatment of boils is simple. When they are forming, the most useful dressing is a warm spirit lotion kept applied with lint and oiled sfik ; as suppm’ation comes on, a linseed-meal poultice, either simple or made with port wine, may be advantageously applied. Most commonly the boils may be allowed to break, when they discharge a thick pus, together with the central core, thus leaving a small cavity in and under the skin, which, however, soon fills up. The Surgeon may in some cases find it necessary to open them by a crucial incision when they are large, and do not appear disposed to break of themselves. When the boil commences as a small irritable pustule, it may occasionally be kept back by touching the point of this with nitrate of silver, or Muth a satm’ated solution of perchloride of mercury. CARBUNCLE A Carbuncle consists essentially of a circumscribed and limited inflamma- tion of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, rapidly running into suppm’ation and slough. The rapid formation of pulpy greyish or ash-colom-ed sloughs of the areolar tissue is characteristic of the disease, whether resulting from the specific nature of the inflammation, or, more probably, from the strangulation of the part by the accumulation of serum and blood, consequent on violent inflammatory action in parts the \i.tality of which has been materially lowered by constitutional depressing causes. Signs.—A carbuncle usually begins as a small pointed vesicle situated on a hard base of a dusky red colour. There is generally from the first a hot, X X 2