i8o CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. In rccoYcry followed a fall of tcmperatiu’c amounting to four degTCCS. fatal cases there may he a fall of as much as six degrees. These s}mptoms commonly set in immediately on the receipt of the injmy. In some cases, however, there is an appreciable interval of time between the infliction of the injury and the appearance of the shock ; this is more particularly the case in persons of great mental fortitude, or whose minds arc actively engaged at the moment of the receipt of an injury. This condition lasts for a variable period, its duration depending on the severity and seat of the injmy, on the nervous susceptibility of the patient, and on the state of his mind at the time. Causes.—Shock is partly due to partly to physical causes. Its severity and continuance are thus materially iirfluenced by the moral condition of the j)atient, and by the degi’ee and natme of his injmy. In persons of a very timid character, or of great nervous susceptibility—those who are hable to the occurrence of syncope—more especially in females and in childi’en, a very trmal injury may produce an extreme degree of shock to the neiwons system ; indeed, the mere apprehension of injmy may, vdthout the occiu’rence of any physical lesion, give rise to aU the phenomena of shock in its most intense degree. People have been actually frightened to death, Avithout any injmy having been inflicted upon them. The state of mind at the time of the receipt of the injmy, influences materially its effects on the neiu’ous system. If the patient be anxiously watching for the infliction of a Avound, as waiting for the first incision in a smgical operation, all the attention is concentrated upon the coming pain ; it is scA^erely felt, and the consequent shock to the system is unusually great. If, on the other hand, the attention be diverted—if, as in the horn* of battle, the feelmgs be roused to the highest pitch, and the mind in a state of intense excitement—a seA'ere injury may be infiicted, and the patient may be enthely unconscious of it, feeling no pain, and experiencing no shock, perhaps not knoAvdiig that he is AA"ounded till he sees his oa\ti blood. The severity of shock is ui a great measme piopoitiouate to the degree of pain attendant upon an injmy. And, as sensibihty to pain varies greatly in different individuals, so AAfill the attendant shock. Fmueaux Jordan has pointed out that the frmctional actiA'ity of the nerA Ous system has an important influence in the production of shock. In yomig children, he obseiwes, whose force is developmental rather than neiwons or muscular, operations and injmies are better borne than by men in the prime of life, Avhere all organs and functions are subservient to the exercise of neiwe-force. And the same ocems in persons worn by long-standing local disease, Avhich has lowered the manifestations of vitality without impairing the integrity of the organs essential to life. “Shock,” he says, “is essentiaUy a depression or metamorphosis of nerve-force. AVhere nerve-force is predominant, shock also becomes predominant.” 7 • > The sudden occmrence of a severe injmy AA'ill, however, induce a phiisical impression independently of any mental emotion or moral mfluenco. thus, 1 a limb of one of the lower animals, as of a frog, be suddenly crushed by tl c blow of a bammer, the force and frequency of the heart s action immediate 3 become considerably lessened. Here there can be no menta unpiession. ' " man, it is found that the severity and the continuance of the shock are usui } proportionate to the severity of the injury, cither from its extent or from the