DJIESSIXG THE STUMP. 45 tritious artery. This hfcmorrhage is best an-ested by pressing a small wooden plug into the bleeding bone. To this a piece of m're shoidd be attached, so that it may be di-ami out when loosened by suppuration at the end of a few days. The mode of union of the flaps of a stump, the dressing required, and the gene- ral management of the part after an amputation, differ in no respect from what takes place in the healing of primary incised wounds, to be hereafter described. 5. DRESSixa THE Stump.—An amputation leaves a clean cut wound, which must be treated on those principles that guide the Surgeon in the management of all incised woimds, and which will be fully described in Chapter IX. They may be sunnned up briefly thus 1. Eemo^-al of all coagulum, bone-detritus, or other foreign body ; 2. Close and accurate coaptation of flaps ; 3. Efficient drainage to allow escape of sero-sanguineons fluid; 4. Perfect rest of the part ; o. Scrupulous attention to cleanliness, and to avoidance of decomposition of fluids. Callender’s method of treating stumps seems to combine these requisites more perfectly than any other. It consists essentially in the use of a di’ainage- tube for from twenty-foim to thirty-six hom-s, so as to allow the escape of bloody serum, placing the stump on a well-padded splint, to Avhich it is bandaged, so as to prevent all voluntary movement and distimbance by involuntary tmtehings, and dressing the cut edges with lint soaked in carbolic acid and oil and cleansing them Avhen necessary with a glass brush dipped in a strong spirituous solution of carbolic acid. Sutures may be either of well waxed silk or of metallic AA’ire. They should be introduced through the lips of the incision at inteiwals of an inch : care being taken to leave the most dependent angles of the stump open, and to draw out the ligatiu-es through them. In cases of primary amputation for injmy, or in any case in Avhich oozing is expected, the sutimes should be intro- duced whilst the patient is under chloroform, and left loose. When this is done, silken sutimes must be employed, and wet lint applied between the surfaces and over the outside, the dressing of the Avound being deferred for a feAV horns, pmtil the smffaces are glazed ; a slip of lint, Avet Avith carbolised Avater, being interposed betAA'een the flaps, and this removed and the stiunp dressed in six homs. But in amputations for disease, when patients are in a low and imtable condition, it is better to apply the dressings immediately after the performance of the amputation, before the effects of the chloroform are recoA'ered from. In these cases metallic sutures should be employed ; they are less in-itating, and may be retained longer. Before di-essing the stump, it is desirable that all oozing should haA'e ceased, lest a coagulum form between the flaps, and so interfere with union ; AAuth this vieAV, a jug or tAA’O of cold AA'ater may be poured OA^er the face of the stump. The dressings should then be applied. They should be as light and unirritating as possible. The object that Ave have in Aiew is the union of the flaps as speedily as possible—not only along their edges, but throughout the deeper portion of the stump. Strips of adhesive plaster, about fifteen inches long, should be applied between the points of suture, and the stump bandaged from the upper part of the limb as far as the line of incision, so as to bring together and steady the deeper parts of the AA’ound, more particularly Avhere the bone intei’A'enes betAA'een the flaps. xV piece of wet lint, kept constantly moist Avith cold carbolised AA\ater, should then be laid over the line of incision, the stump comfortably supported on pilloAvs,