2. Such primary tumours arc ahvays single—no primary outbreak of OIUGIN^ OF GANGER 79^ IJY Avliich they arc nourished. But if by blood-disease be meant a disease in Avhichtlie blood actually contains the cancer-cell, as the blood m gout does the matcries morbi of that disease—uric acid circulating througii the body and capable of deposit in some locality favourable to the local development ot the malady—this hypothesis is certainly untenable. There is no cA-idence n-hatever, histologically, that the blood of any individual is a poison-bearing fluid, and has a cancerous constitution or tendency, or that, at aU events before the primary growth has developed itself, the cancer-cell, or auy material capable of undergoing cancerous development, is met with in the blood. Every phenomenon that oecims in connection with cancer may be explained without having recourse to such a hypothesis as this, which has not a particle oi^ jiathological observation on which it can be based. But if the doctrine of cancer being a blood-disease is untenable in the sense in Avhich I have here stated it, the same camiot at once be said in the way of its being primarily a constitutional aflection independently of the blood. The doctrine of the constitutional origin of cancer may be more clearly expressed in the words of Paget. “ Cancers are manifestations of certain specific and morbid states of the blood ; and in them are incorporated peculiar morbid materials which accumulate in the blood, and which their growth may tend to increase.” ^^The existence of the morbid material in the blood, whether in the rudimental or in the effective state, constitutes the general predisposi- tion to cancer ; it is that which is by some called the predisposing cause of cancer. The morbid material is the essential constituent of the cancerous diathesis or constitution ; and when its existence produces some manifest im- pairment of the general health, independently of the cancerous growth, it makes the primary cancerous cachexia.” Eor the local manifestation of this constitutional disease, the part where it is developed must be put into a favour- able condition by irritation, injury, or other similar cause. The blood-disease and the local conditions may compensate each other ; thus, with an intense cancerous diathesis, tumoiu's may be formed in such a way aud in such numbers as to be apparently independent of local conditions ; while in cases where the constitutional element exists in a low degree, a long continuance of irritation may be required to bring out its local manifestations. Paget believes that by this theory of compensation the opposing views as to the local or con- stitutional origin of cancer may be reconciled. J). The theory as to the local origin of cancer appears to be more generally adopted by Sui-geons. Velpeau, Yirchow,';De Morgan, all support or incline towards it. The arguments on which it is based may briefly be summed up as follows. They are certaiifly sufficient to account for all the phenomena of cancer ; and many of these phenomena do irot admit of explanation on any other theory. 1. Cancerous tumours spring up in indinduals who haA'C ahvays enjoyed perfect health, and who are to all appearances perfectly Avell at the time of the occmTcncc of the disease. As in these cases there is no evidence AA^hatever of constitutional affection of any kind, it Avould be a begging of the AA'hole ques- tion to assert that the existence of the local tumour must of itself be taken as an indication of a constitutional cancerous tendency.