473 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. trachea, the sterno-mastoid muscle has an arched outline, and the axis of the hone is directed upwards, forwards, and inwards, so that the interval betAveen the clavicle and the fimt rib is very consider- able. The trachea and oesophagus ^ are compressed when the patient i sits up or leans forwards. Smith ^ fomid on dissection that the head of the bone lay above the ster- nmn, and rested on the sterno- hyoid muscle and trachea, the clavicnlai- ligament (Fig. 205). He observes that the reason of its rarity is that it can only be produced by force acting on the shoulder in a A'ery unusual direction, \iz., dowumnrds, inwards, and probably backwards. The Tmihmnt consists in placing a pad in the axilla, elevating the elbow", and bringing it well to the side. But I doubt if the bone, though replaced, can be maintained in a good position. The dislocation Backwards is not of common occurrence : though, accord- ing to Xelaton, there ai-e at least ten or a dozen cases on record. This luxation appears generally to haA'O resulted from the point of the shoulder being driven upwards, or from the hand being Auolently draAAui forwards. It has also been observed to result from the direct pressiu-e of the clavicle backAvards, as by the- kick of a horse. In one case under my care, the clavicle Avas dislocated back- Avards at its sternal end by the wheel of a cab passing across the bone, and thus dfrectly pressing it backwards, fracturing at the same time the second rib, and separating the first fr-om its cartilage, Avhich Avas attached to the clavicle by the uinaiptured costo-cla\'icular ligament, the traction on AA'hich by the dislocated clavicle had probably determined the separation of the cartilage from its rib. It has also occiUTcd as a sccondaiy consequence of ciu'vature of the spine. The Suins are those that usually attend a dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle—shortening of the shoidder, and deformity about the upper part of the stenium ; but, besides these, a special train of symptoms is occasioned. ligaments of the joint being torn through, as was also the costo- O ' Fig. 205.—Position of Clavicle in Dislocation of Sternal] g End Upwards. (Smith.) by the pressure of the displaced bone upon tlie trachea, oesophagus, and vessels