^72 VENEREAL BI8EA8EE. have been attached to the venereal infection, until the manifestations of its most terrible and destructive elfects on the brain or cord. The great peculiarity of the nervous affections dependent on syiihilis is that they are irregular, scattered, and do not foUow the ordinary course of the non-specific forms of the disease. They are commonly accompanied by cutaneous sy^jhilides of the low types, such as ecthyma, rupia, or serpiginous sores ; by occasional sloughy throat; by painful nodes on the cranium, verte- bral column, or long bones ; and the final manifestation of the nervous affec- tion is very often preceded by severe pains in the head, down the limbs, or round the body. The disease may declare itself in tAvo forms, separately or conjoined : viz., by paralysis or epilepsy. Syphilitic Pcircilysis chiefly affects the motor nerA'es. The third, fourth, sixth, and seventh are often early affected, giving rise to ptosis, to immobility of the eyeball, or to strabismus, Avith more or less facial palsy and double vision. I have neA'er seen paralysis of the fifth nerve in the disease. Oculo-motor paralysis in some form is, indeed, one of the earliest signs of a syphilitic disease of the brain, and Avhen this occurs in young men it should, hoAvever passing and slight, always attract the most serious attention, as it is usually the precursor of more general paralytic disease. If the patient be hemiplegic, he is only partially so, and the liemiplegic affection is irregular in the intensity of its distribution, in the degree of loss of motor or sensory power in different limbs, and is often spastic. When the spinal cord or its membranes are the seat of the syi)hihtic disease, the lower segment of the cord is usually first or more markedly attacked. Paraplegic symptoms to a limited extent often show themselves. They usually commence in the muscles supplied by the external popliteal nerve, and are often throughout the coiu’se of the disease confined to these, giving rise to drag- ging of the foot, and inability to raise it from the ground, or to timn it outwards. Epileptic Seizures are common in the cerebral form of syphihs. They are often of the most prolonged and violent character, leading to coma. But dangerous as these attacks may become, there is this remarkable point in con- nexion Avith them—that epilej)tic seizimes of the gravest possible character, if syphilitic in their origin, may be recovered from, Avhilst attacks of equal seve- rity, if non-specific, Avould certainly have a fatal termination. After these epileptic attacks the patient often improves materially, some of his paralytic symptoms, such as ptosis or strabismus, being ameliorated or even passing away entirely. In other cases, again, the mental powers undergo gradual deteriora- tion, delusions perhaps manifest themselves, and the patient falls into a state of semi-imbecility. There is truly not a more pitiable object to be seen than a man, young or in the prime of life, suffering from syphihtic disease of the nervous centres— affected by ptosis—AAoth one eye staring and immovable or squintizig, the face distorted, the lip dropped and saliva dribbling, defecth'e in his articulation, straddhng and insecure in his Avalk, di'agging one leg behind him. At times the Adctim of the most fi’ightful epileptic paroxysms, often coA'ered by rupial sores, he is truly a fit object for commiseration rather than one for reprobation and reproach.