ARREST OF ARTERIAL HjEMORRHAGE. 296 Fig. 121.—Partial Absorption of Coagiiliun in Femoral, four- teen days after Amputation. Fi 122.—Femoral Ar- teries, ten days after Amptitation of Thigh. Death from Pysemia. happen in a case of ligatiu’e of the carotid artery, in which death occiuTed from ■visceral disease ten weeks after the ope- ration ; and in the femoral, in cases of pyaemia (Fig. 122). In the distal cul- de-sac of the ligatm’cd artery I have never seen any very distinct coagulmn formed, either in the human subject or in dogs on which I have experimented, but merely small detached fragments of coagiila and some plastic material. The changes that take place in the External Coat are most important. After the internal and middle coats have been cut through by the ligature, the external coat would not be able to resist the impulse of the blood, ivere it not strengthened and consohdated by the adhesive process. The necessary stimulation is occasioned partly by the dissection required to expose the ves- sel, and partly by the pressiu’e and irri- tation of the hgatm’e. Lymph is thrown out between the vessel and its sheath, mattmg together these parts, and often enveloping the noose and knot in an ovoid mass. Progressively with the effusion of lymph and consequent strength- ening of the coats, the pressure of the noose causes gradual sloughing and ulceration of the part included within it. The mode in which the noose ulcerates through the external coat is of much importance, as on this depends m a great measiu’e the success of the ligatiu’e. There are two sources of danger in connection with this process ; either the sloughing may be too extensive, or the ulceration through the artery may take place before the adhesive jDlug is properly and ftrmly foimed. The chance of the sloughing being too extensive, principally arises from the ai’tery being- isolated and separated from its sheath to too gi-eat an extent dm-ing the dis- section required to expose it, and its nutrient vessels being consequently divided in great numbers, so as to deprive that portion of the coats of the vessel of its vascular supply; hence the danger of passing a spatula, large probe, or the handle of a scalpel under the artery, and also of applying several ligatm-es. Prematiu’e ulceration of the vessel may occm-, either from the patient’s constitution being too debilitated to allow healthy reparatne action, or from excessn^e degeneration of the artery at the point ligatmed. So soon as the ligature has ulcerated through that portion of the ai-tery which is included in its noose, it becomes loosened and separates ; freqxiently being thi’owm off 'with the discharges, or becoming detached on the slightest traction. The period of the separation of the ligatm-e depends upon the size of the artery and the thickness of its coats. From the radial 01 ulnar aiteiies, it is usually detached by the eighth day ; fr’om the femoral, iliac, 01 su c a^an, about the sixteenth or twentieth day. In some cases the ligatme wi con muc