S62 VENEREAL DISEASES. The Vesicular syphilicle is of very rare occurrence. In one case n'liich fell nuclcr my obsel^ation, it appeared in the form of clusters of small pointed vesicles, which, on drying, left grey or brownish crusts and coppery marks. Syphilitic Puslules, on the contrary, commonly occur ; beginning as small hard papulte of a coppery hue, slowly softening in the centre into a small deeply seated pustule, having a large brown or coppery areola, and forming speedily large circular dark-brown or even black scabs; usually flat and irregularly crusted, at other times conical. When flat, they constitute syphilitic ecthyma ; when conical, the rupial form of the disease. After their separation, troublesome ulcers of a circular shape, and with a rather foul surface, are ■commonly left. This disease first appears upon the face, but speedily sliows itself on various parts of the body, more especially on the extremities; it is always indicative of constitutional cachexy, and often appears at an early period after phagedmnic chancre ; when it follows other forms of chancre, this is, I believe, orsdng to the patient’s system having m the meantime fallen into n loAV and broken state. Syirhflitic Tubercles commonly occin as an advanced or tertiary symptom ; they appear as hard, smooth, flat, and elevated bodies of a reddish-brown or pui’plish colorm, seated on the face, the tongue, the limbs, the penis, or the uterus. They may be resolved by proper treatment, but have a gveat tendency to ulcerate and to destroy the parts on which they are situated, giving rise to large, deep, foul, and serpiginous sores. Syphilitic Boils of an indolent character, but painful, and discharging a thin ichorous pus, vdth a core of shreddy areolar tissue, and leaAing deep, irregular, and foul ulcers, are not uncommonly met Avith. Syphilitic Ulcers may result from pustules, tubercles, or boils, or may ■commence as tertiary sores; they fr'equently occur where the integuments ■are thin, or Avhere they are moistened by the natinal secretions of the part. They are circidar with elevated edges, and tend to spread in circles, Avith a foul greyish sin-face ; often creeping along slowly, and destroying deeply the parts they affect ; leaving cicatrices of a blueish or brown colour, thin ■and smooth, which are apt to break open again on the appheation of any slight in’itation. The Hair and Nails are commoifly affected in advanced constitutional syphilis ; baldness, constituting SyphUitic Aloyoecia, occiuTing either generally ■or in patches, AAuthout any apparent disease of the skin. Disease of the nails, Syj}Mlitic Onychia, occin-s in two forms, either as a foul ulceration between the toes, or else as a chronic inflammation, Avith fmtid discharge in the matrix of the nail; AA'hich becomes black, more or less bent, and scales off Avith the foi- mation of a dirty ulcer under its detached edge. The Treaiment of Cutaneous Syphilis must be conducted in accordance Avith the general principles already laid doAvn, and with special reference to the characters of the concomitant constitutional condition, or of the other local manifestations accompanying it. In the early stages, Avhen ushere in -ly febrile disturbance, a mild antiphlogistic treatment is inquired ; when the pyrexia has been subdued, more specific measures must be had recourse to. In the roseolar forms, the treatment of the secondary aftection should be o-uided by the previous management of the primary sore. If mercniy laAC