6 QEXEHAL llEMAEKE ON OEEIiATlONS. excesses ot any kind, n'liosc habits have been temperate and sober, Avhose diet has been sufficient and of good quality, whoso mind has never been o^-er- stramed by the anxieties of bushiess or the labours of a professional life, and ■whose existence has been spent in rural occupations and in the pure air of the couiiti}, is neccssaiily placed in a far more faA'ourable jiosition to bear the effects of any mutilation, whether it be the result of injury, or be inflicted by the^ Hurgeon’s knife, than the man Avhose physical powers are Avorn out by actiA'c and unceasing business avocations or professional Avork, Avhose nervous system is exhausted by his anxious labours ; and infinitely more so than the poor inhabitant of a large and densely peopled toAvn, Avho has from earliest childhood inhaled an impime and fetid atmosphere, Aihose scanty diet has consisted ot the refuse of the shops, or the semi-decomposed offal of the stalls, and AAhose nervous system has been irritated and at the same time exhausted in the daily struggle for a precarious livelihood, or o\'er-stimulated by habitual excesses in strong drinks, by which he has hoped to piu’chase temporary forgetfulness of the cares of a sordid life. Though individuals AAuth such different antecedents be placed under exactly the same hygienic circum- stances afirr the perfonnance of an operation, yet the results will probably be very dissimilar, influenced as they must be by their past rather than by their iwesent condition. In the one case, the inflanmiation resulting from the incision, and I’equisite for the cure of the Avound, aaIU not OA'erstep the nomial degree necessary for the healing process. In the other it may not attain to this, but, assuming a Ioav and diffuse form, may teiminate in some of those secondary affections Avhich Avill presently be adA'erted to as occasioning death under imfiiA ourable hygienic conditions. Besides the general state of the patient’s health, the Gondition of Imjiortanf, Organs must be taken into consideration before an operation is decided on. The state of the patient’s Heart should be carefully looked to. ValA’ular disease of this organ, if early or slight, need not be an obstacle to most operations, especially those of expediency. But fatty degeneration of the heart, as indicated by its feeble action, by inegularity and want of power in the circulation, by breathlessness, and by a distinctly marked arcus senilis, should make the Surgeon careful in undertaking any operation attended Avith much loss of blood or shock to the nervous system. Such a condition of heart is liable to occasion great depression of strength, syncope, and death —often sudden—some days after the operation. In cases of chronic disease that it would otherwise be proper to submit to operation, this condition of the heart becomes a serious obstacle. But it need not be a bar to opera- tion in acute cases that Avould be speedily fatal if left to themselves, and certainly not in one of the four conditions of primary sm-gical urgency. Disease of the Lungs, of a tuberculous chai’acter, AA'hen actiA'c or adA’auced, is incompatible Avith the success of an operation; but under certain circimAstances, as AA'ill be explained Avhen speaking of diseases of the joints and fistula in ano, an operation is justifiable and proper, CA'en though the patient be consumptive. If the Liver be diseased organically, if it be in a state of amyloid degenera- tion, or affected by cinhosis, and more especially if any symptoms of ascites have supervened, no operation but for the relief of disease that instantly threatens life should be undertaken.