928 DISEASES OF VEINS. cventnally to degenerate into a fibro-cellular cord. In this way the trunk of a varicose vein and the larger masses of varix may be occluded. But can the disease be cured by the local obliteration of the vein ? To this question, I have no hesitation in answering in the negative. Though the trunk be oblite- rated, a collateral venous circidation is set up, which is very apt in the course of a few months to take on a varicose condition, and thus to cause a return of the disease. But, though the cure be not radical, much benefit may often be effected by removing varicose knots that occasion pain or inconvenience, by enabhng an ulcer to cicatrise, or by occluding a vein from which hsemorrhage has occun’ed. The principle of all curative treatment in varix consists in exciting adhesive and localised inflammation in the vein so as to occlude it, and thus, by directing the blood into other channels, to relieve the distension of tbe diseased vessels and the inconvenient results that follow this. As the treatment thus necessarily involves the artificial excitation of phlebitis, there is always some little risk of the inflammation passing beyond the adhesive- stage into that of suppuration, or diffuse inflammation. Various plans for obliterating the veins have been recommended. They resolve themselves into five principal heads of treatment. 1. The subcutaneous section of the vein, or the excision of an inch or so of the vessel. This plan of treatment is severe and not unattended by danger, as we learn from Brodie. 2. It has been recommended by Mayo, Seutin, Bonnet, and others, to excite inflammation in the vein by producing a series of deep eschars or issues in the skin covering it, by the application of a caustic, such as the chloride of zinc or- potassa fusa. Skey speaks very favourably of this mode of obliterating varicose veins as being devoid of danger. He recommends the eschars to be made by the apj)lication of a powder, composed of three parts of lime and two of potash, made into a paste -with spirits of -wine at the time of application. The eschars should not be larger than a split pea, and their number must depend on the extent of the disease. 8. Others recommend the obliteration of the vessel by introdiicing needles- into it, and transmitting a galvanic current along and across them. Of this plan of treatment I have not had any experience ; nor do I believe that it is ever- employed by Siu’geons in this country. 4. Injection of the varix by a feiv drops of a sohdion of the percliloride of iron,. as recommended by Pravaz, is a very effectual method of prociu-mg coagulation of the contained blood and consolidation of the varix, more particularly if it be very large and cellular. In employing this means, it is better to com- press the vein by means of the finger or a pad and bandage above the varix ; the solution is then to be injected in very small quantity—not more than three or four- drops—by means of the syringe (which will be described in speaking of the treatment of nmvus), into the dilated veins. Coagulation of the blood immediately takes place. The patient must be confined to his bed for a fen^ days with the limb raised, and a bandage should be applied before he is allowed to walk about. This means is very effectual in large varix, and may in such cases be advantageously conjoined Avith the next method—the pins being used under the A^enous trunks, and the solution introduced into the dilated masses of the varix. But it is not devoid of danger : accidents, such