SPECIAL DISLOCA TIONS. 4SS thro’wn out of a carriage and liglits upon Lis hands, in consequence of whicli the bones are twisted and displaced in opposite directions. Tlie deformity is of course great, but is I'cadily recognised by the combination of the characters of the two forms of displacement, provided an examination bo made before the swelling has come on, which rapidly sets in. Complications.—Dislocations of the elbow-joint are A-ery frequently com- plicated Avith fracture of one or other condyle of the humerus, of the olecranon, and—as we have already seen in displacement of the ulna, and more rarely —of the coronoid process. In these complicated injuries an exact diagnosis is often extremely difficult, OAving to the laxity and mobility of the parts, and to the great tumefaction that accompanies accidents of this description. It is in these cases that a good knowledge of the relative bearing of the different osseous points, aided by a comparative examination of the opposite limb, will alone enable the Siugeon to effect a proper diagnosis of the natme of the injury. ' The mode of RedAiction in dislocations of the elbow-joint varies according as the ulna is displaced or not. When the ulna is dislocated, in whateA'er direction it may be thrown, and whether the radius be displaced at the same time or not, the great obstacle to reduction is the hitching of the processes of the bone against the articular end of the humerus. If either the olecranon or coronoid process be fractiued, this entanglement cannot take place, and the joint then readdy slips into its position, though it is very difficult to maintain it there. The reduc- tion of the displaced ulna, Avhen uncom- pheated by fracture, may always be effec- ted, as Sir A. Cooper has recommended, by bending the arm over the knee. The patient being seated on a chair, the Sur- geon rests one foot upon the seat, and, placing the knee in the bend of the injured elbow, grasps the forearm Avith both hands (Fig. 217); fixing the arm, he presses the knee firmly against the inner aspect of the forearm, so as to disengage the ulna from the lower end of the humerus, and at the same time he bends or pushes the forearm into proper position, into which, uideed, it has a tendency to returiff by the action of its own muscles, so soon as the opposing osseous siufaccs are separated. In dislocations of the radius, this movement across the knee as not neces- sary. ' All that is reqimnd is to fix the upper aim, and then employing extension from the An’ist, to straighten the arm well; AAdien, by benffing ^ elbow at right angles, the head of the radius may be pressed into a proper ^°Aftci-’reduction has been effected, the hmb shoidd be firmly put up in Fig. 217.—Dislocation of the Ulna : Eetluction.