gangrene following ligature. 311 the main agent in the venous circulation, is greatly diminished by being trans- mitted through the nairow and circuitous channels of the anastomosing vessels. This difficulty to the onward passage of the venous blood may, if there exist any cause of obstruction in the larger venous trunks, be readily increased to such an extent as to choke the collateral circulation, and so cause the limb to mortify. This mechanical obstacle may be dependent upon the occlusion of the \-ein by inflammation excited within it opposite the ligature, by its trans- fixion with the anem-ism-needle, or by its accidental wound with the knife in exposing the artery. When such an injmy, followed by inflammation, is inflicted on a vein, which, like the femoral, returns the gi-eat mass of blood from a limb, gangrene is the inevitable result. The supervention of erysipelas in the limb after the application of the ligature, though fortimately not of very frequent occurrence, is a som’ce of cmisiderable danger, being very apt to give rise to gangrene by the tension of the parts obstnicting the anastomosing circulation. I have on two occasions seen gangrene of the fingers, from this cause, follow ligatm’e of the vessels of the fore-aini. The abstraction of heat fr'om the limb, either directly by the application of cold, or indirectly by the neglect of sufficient precaution to keep up the tem- peratm’e of the part, often occasions gangrene : thus Sir A. Cooper saw mortifi- cation follow the appheation of cold lead-lotion to a limb in which the femoral artery had been tied ; and Hodgson witnessed the same result when the opera- tion was performed at an inclement season of the year. The incautious ap2Ai^a,tion of heat may, by overstimulating the returning circulation of the limb, especially about the period when the rising tempera- ture is an indication of increased action in the capillary vessels, occasion mortification. In this way the application of hot bricks and bottles to the feet has given rise to sloughing ; and Liston was compelled to amputate the thigh after ligatine of the femoral artery, for gangrene induced by fomenting the limb with hot water. The cpplicaVmi of a bandaye, even though very cautiously made, is apt to induce sloughing and gangrene. I have seen this happen when a roller was applied to the leg after ligature of the femoral artery, with a view of removing the oedema. The Period of Supervention of gangi’ene of the h’mb extends over the first three or four weeks after the hgatine of the vessel. It seldom sets in before the third day, but most frequently happens before the tenth. Character.—The gangrene fr’om ligatm’e of an artery is almost invariably of thp moist kind, on account of the implication of the veins. The limb fii’st becomes cedematous ; vesications then form ; and the skin assumes a piu-plish or greenish-black tint, rapidly extending up to the seat of operation. In some cases, though they are rare, simple mummification of the limb comes on ; the skin assuming a dull yeUowish-white hue, mottled by the streaks that corre- spond to the veins, and becoming di-y, horny, and shrivelled, about the extensor tendons of the instep. Treatment.—Much may be done with the view of preventing gangrene. Thus, the limb shoiild be elevated, wrapped up loosely in flannel or cotton- wadding, and laid on its outer side after the operation. If the weather be cold.