POISONED WOUNDS. 242 depression and ostration of the system, a feeble and intermittent pulse, dilated pupils, usually slight delirium, indistinctness of speech, at times complete aphasia, speedy stupor, insensibility, and death. The pain is burning and lancinating, whilst the part bitten swells and becomes livid in a few hours; and if the patient smwive sufficiently long, diffuse inflammation and gangrene occim in its neighbomhood; involuntary evaciiatious take place ; asthenic symptoms set in, which may eventually terminate fatally, or end slowly, and after a lapse of tune, in the recovery of the patient, whose health may long suffer seriously from the effects of the accident. Treatment.—This is local and general. The Local Treatment can only be fulfilled with success when the patient is seen immediately after the accident, as the absorption of the poison is very rapid. It presents two great indications : 1, to prevent the absorption of the poison into the system; and 2, to treat the diffuse inflammation and sloughing that may subsequently occur. The first indication may be fulfilled by tying a ligatme so tightly round the limb at a little distance above the injimed part, as to an-est all circulation thi-ough it. In this way the absoi-ption of the poison may be prevented ; the woimd should then be freely cauterised mth a red-hot iron or cinder, or better still, excised, and a cupping-glass applied over the cut surface, so as to withdiw the blood in the neighbomfrood which may have become contaminated by the poison. If a cupping-glass be not at hand, or if the part bitten be so situated as not to admit of its application, there can be no objection to the employment of suction by the mouth after free excision ; the poison not being absorbed by an luibroken mucous membrane. In using suction, the mouth should be rinsed with brandy. With the view of lessening the swelling, tension, and pain of the limb, frictions nith olive oil are said to be advantageous. After diffuse inflammation has set in, this must be treated on general principles—by fomentations and free incisiou. The Constitutional Treatment consists in the early and free administra- tion of the most powerful stimulants, with the mew of combating the depression that exists. For this pinpose, brandy, wine, ammonia, or ether must be freely given. The eau de /wee—which enjoys a high reputation in some tropical coiuitries—owes its efficacy to the ammonia which it contains. ^ Should (frowsi- ness come on, the patient must be made to walk about; and artificial respiration with o-alvanism may be resorted to as a last means of maintaining life until the effects of the stimulants may overcome those of the poison. Enforced exercise —the patient being made to run for some distance behind a canlage driven at a steady pace—is another means of keeping up the respiration, while the sweat- iim aids in the elimination of the poison. Large doses of arsemc have been recommended as a land of specific, and the “ Tanjore piU,” a celebrated Iiffiian remedy, owes its activity to this mineral; but care must, of comse, taken in administering this, lest the remedy prove as fatal as the mjmy for which it is administered. Halford, of Melbourne, has used, in cases of bite by the -brown snake,” a very venomous M, whose bite is nearly alwa^^ injection of strong solution of ammonia, dduted with tvuce of ^ iii a superficial ?ein, such as the radial. Fifteen or thirty minims me th on in, and repeated according to circumstances. The effect is immediate rousing of the patient from his stupor. Sir Joseph Fayiei, hov ev ,