PREPARATION- FOR OPERATION. 13 disturbance. In these circumstances, it is not the extent or size of the n'ouncl that determines the dangerous results. The mere fact of a breach of sm-face, howcTcr trivial, is sufficient to excite these morbid processes, the materials for which have been previously stored up in the system. In such conditions of tlie system, the amputation of a toe may be as fatal as that of the thigh, or the removal of a small atheromatous cyst of the scalp as the ablation of the breast; the additional danger essentially connected with the greater operations being the only increased risk fi'om shock and hasmonhage. Diphtheritic Inflammation may develope in a wound with or without con- comitant throat-atfection. It may be developed by direct contagion, or under the influence of those local epidemics or constitutional influences that cause diphtheria to appear in the fauces. IVhen a womid becomes affected in this way, the edges and the integument for some little distance around are swollen, bravmy, and of a deep red colour ; the surface of the woimd is covered Avith a greyish Avhite exudation Avhich caimot be cleaned off; the skin nearest to the Avoimd also becomes besmeared AAith tenacious creamy-looking exudation matter ; and febrile symptoms of a low ty^De develope themselves. PREPARATION FOR OPERATION. The Slugeon, being cominced of the necessity of having recourse to operation, should fully and mn'eservedly lay before his patient the state of the case, and, if necessary, give the reasons that render an operation imperativ'e, in order to obtain his consent and that of his family. In the event of the patient refusing to submit, Avhat coiuse should the Siugeon piusue ? In this he must be guided partly by the nature of the proposed operation ; and partly by the state of the patient, and his capabihty of forming a correct judgment of his case. If the operation be one of expediency, merely for the relief of an infirmity or the- removal of an ailment AAhich does not directly jeopardise life, most certainly no Surgeon Avould think of undertaking it AAithout the full consent of his patient. If, on the other hand, it be an operation that is imperatively necessary for the preseiwation of life, in which the delay of a few minutes or hours may be fatal to'the patient, as in one of the four cases of extreme siugical urgency, viz., dangerous hemorrhage, asphyxia, over-distended bladder, or strangulated hernia, and Avhere the patient, unaware of, or incapable of being made to understand, the necessity for immediate action, is nuAA'illing to assent to the proposal, the Surgeon Avill truly be placed in a dilemma of anxious responsibility ; betAveen alloAving the patient to fall a sacrifice to his obstinacy, if^orance, or timidity, and attempting, perhaps unsuccessfully, to rescue him from inevitable death against his oaa'ii consent. I belicA’C the proper course for the Surgeon to pursue under such circumstances, is to judge for the patient in a matter on Avhich he is clearly unable to form an opinion, and to compel him, so far as is legal and practicable, to submit to the necessary steps for the- preservation of his life, or to put him under anmsthetics, and, Avhen he is> unconscious, to perform any operation that may be necessary. In the event of the patient being insensible, as after an injiuy of the head, the Surgeon must necessarily take upon himself to act as the case requires. Children "cannot be considered capable of giAung an opinion as to the propriety of an operation • the consent of the parents is here necessary, and quite sufficient ; and, in their