LOCAL TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 669 and otlier fluids, and thus effectually relieve tlie vessels and the tissues. This is more especially the case where there is much loose areolar tissue, as in the penis or scrotiim ; or indeed in any part in which much tension is conjoined with the inflammation. The relief of local tension is of the first importance in cases of inflammation threatening to terminate in gangrene. By a free incision through the structures so aifected, as in phlegmonous erysipelas or cai-buncle, not only may the vitality of the aifected tissues be preserved, but the extension of gangvene, if it have already sot in, may be arrested, and the constitutional disturbance is at once lessoned : the strain on the blood-A'OSsels being taken off', the pulse falls, loses its sharpness, and great relief is afforded. In some forms of inflammatory sloughing, nature relieves the part by free hmmoiThage, asfr'om the dorsal arteiy in cases of acute gangrene of the j)enis : and it is not until this has taken place, that the gangrenous action becomes arrested. By incision, also, irritating effiisions and infiltrations are discharged, and thus one cause of sloughing is removed. Mild local antiphlogistic treatment of an ordinary character is likewise required. When the gangvene has been arrested, the foelor of the sloughs must he diminished by disinfectant applications, such as the solutions of the chlorides, carbolic acid, or charcoal and yeast poultices. The sejKiration of the sloughs shoidd be left as much as possible to natm’e, which is always fully able to accomplish this, if the patient’s strength can be kept up. The 'sdtality of the tissues in the proximity of and above the line of separation is very Ioav, and may readily be destroyed by any fresh action set up in them, there being always a danger of exciting inflammation to such a degree as to exceed that which is necessary for the adhesive variety, and to cause it to rim into the gangrenous form. Hence no attempt should be made to puU away sloughs not already separated, nor shoidd stimulants be applied to the living tissues. It matters little as to what is done to parts afready dead, which, when loosened, may be cut away ; but we must not meddle with those that are living. He- morrhage seldom occurs before the separation of the sloughs, but there is always danger of its happening during that process. If it occur, pressime or the actual cautery will be found the best means to arrest it; and, if these fail, ligatirre of the artery higher up the hmb, or amputation when practicable, might be required. The parts that are already gangrenous should be enveloped in lint soaked in solutions of carbolic acid, the chlorides of zinc or hme, or creasote, or dusted with charcoal powder and covered with a layer of wadding. Ho iroultices should be applied if the sloughs be large, heat and moisture hastening their decomposition ; but if they be small, yeast, carrot, or charcoal poultices may be advantageously applied. Parts that are quite dead, but that do not readily separate, such as tendons, ligaments, and bones, may be cut through with scissors, phers, or saws, and thus many weeks or mouths saved in their separation. It may occasionally be necessary in doing this to encroach on the living tissues ; this should bo f one as carefully and as sparingly as possible, for reasons already stated. The issues do not bleed much, owing to their infiltration ivith lymph. Ihe line of separation should be dressed with water-dressing, or witli Rnnw> mi d detergent lotion or ointment, in order to keep the siu’face clean and io