826 SCliOFULA AND TUBERCLE. bo considcrGcl as sufficient to occasion tlic disease in those cases in which no piedisposition to it exists, and greatly to de^•elop any hereditary tendency to it in the system. It is to the conjoined influence of agencies such as these, that we must attribute the prevalence of scrofula amongst the lower orders both of to^^m and of rural populations. ihe moculaUlUy, m.fecUon^ and transmission of tubercle are cpiestions of the deepest interest in a pathological point of view. Their fuU consideration would lead far beyond the limits of such a w-ork as this. It is sufficient to say that the experiments of ViUermin, Wilson Fox, and Burdon Sanderson have fully established the inoculability of tubercle. The infection of the system from old caseous tuberculous deposits, more especially in bones, if not actually proved, is in the highest degree probable. And there is strong evidence in support of the belief of its transmission from individual to indfr ■S'idual by close cohabitation, social or sexual. The practical bearings of these pathological facts and views arc obvious in their application to the hygienic prevention of tuberculosis, and the import- ance of the removal by operation of all old tuberculous masses in glands or bones, lest they become centres of tuberculous dissemination. Both scrofulous and tuberculous manifestations are often called into im- mediate action by the chMUtij mcluced hy previous diseases, such as measles, scarlatina, hooping-cough, &c., which lead to an overaction of the lymphatic system, resulting in an active hyperplasia of the gland elements. The former usually develops itself at an early age, though seldom before the child has reached its second year. It is most commonly about the period of the second dentition that the affection declares itself, and it is rare to meet with it for the first time after the ages of tw^enty-five or thirty-five. According to Phillips, when it is fatal, it usually proves so before the fifteenth year ; GO to 70 per cent, of the deaths occurring before this age. Sex does not appear materially to influence the disease ; though, according to the same authority, the deaths of males from scrofula exceed those of females, in this country, by 21 per cent. These numbers may, howover, requho correction if we are to regard phthisis as an affection dependent upon the existence of either of these condi- tions, people who are scrofulous in early life often becoming the subjects of that form of phthisis now called scrofulous pneumonia. Treatment.—This should rather consist in endeavouring to prevent the occinrence or full manifestation of scrofula, than in removing it Avhen it is actually existing. Indeed, the Preventive Treatment is perhaps of most consequence, and by j>roper attention to it, I have no hesitation in saying, the development of the affection, even when hereditary, may be stopped ; and the child of strumous parents, presenting perhaps the featines indicative of the diathesis, may pass through fife without the disease having an opportmiity of declaring itself. In order to accomplish this, how^ever, the preventive plan of treatment must be commenced early, and continued uninteiTuptedly for a considerable time, even for years. The preventive treatment of scrofrda and tubercle may be said in pneral terms to consist in close and continuous attention to hygienic rules. Ihe diet must be specially attended to ; nourishing food, but of the lightest quality, being given. A great error is often committed in overloading the stomach