59* TREATMENT OF FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. It occura secondarily and indirectly, at a more or less remote period, as the result of changes in the body dependent on permanent loss of iimervation, in all eases in -wliich the injury sustained by the cord is below the part, the in- te>rrity of which has just been refen-ed to as essential to the maintenance of life. At the seat of injury, of compression, and of disorganisation, in- flammation is necessarily developed ; thenee it spreads along the membranes and to the cord itself to a variable distance, gi\’ing rise to elfnsion into the canal and softening of the medulla. It is doubtless by the gradual extension upwards of these secondary inflammatory disorganisations, that death is ultimately occasioned ; the mischief^ when low down, leading to impair- ment of the actions dependent upon the integrity of the cord, and, when high up, extending to the origins of the phrenic ner\'es and so arresting respiration. The Treatment of these injuries is sufficiently simple. No attempt at re- duetion can of course be made. All our efforts must be dmected to the pro- longation of life. With this ’\dew, if this fracture be in such a situation, at any point below the upper dorsal vertebrae, for instance, as will hold out a prospect of life being prolonged for a few weeks or months, means must be taken to prevent the occuiTence of sloughing of the nates, an accident that is common, and usually fatal, in these cases ; and eveiy precaution should be taken to keep the bladder healthy, one of the great dangers in cases of fr-acture of the spine being the supervention of cystitis, which may gradually extend upwards till the kidney becomes involved. The patient should be laid at once on a Avater- bed, cushion, or mattress ; he must be kept scrupulously clean, and his urine should be drawn off twice in the day at regular hoiu's. If, as usually happens after a time, the bowels become confined, relief must be afforded by castor-oil or tiu’pentine enemata. A nourishing diet must be administered and perfect rest in one position enjoined. In this way life may be maintained for a considerable length of tune ; and ossific union of the fracture may sometimes take place, though the patient may not recoA'er from the paralysis, and Avill die eA’entually fr’om disease of the cord. But in some cases a much moi’c satisfactory result is obtained ; the patient gradually gains power in the paralysed parts. In these cases much assistance Avill be afforded him Ijy his Avearing an apparatus as in Fig, 254, consisting of a firm pehic baud, Avith a strong iron rod shaped to the spine, and running as high as the vertex, having padded transverse arms to support the head and shoulders, and the whole attached to a stout leather case moulded to the back and shoulders. _ Trephining the Spine.—As the fatal result of fracture of the spine is almost meutadc, and as it is undoubtedly dependent upon the compression or divi- sion of the cord by the broken vertebra, the idea has naturally suggested itself 0 mirgeons that life might be prolonged, and health perhaps restored, if the 10 operation Avero extended to the spine Avhich is successfully emnloA^ed in an, of the depiessed port:on of bone. This operation, originally proposed Fig. 254.—Apparatus for Fracture of the Spine.