373 GAX-GREXE AFTER FRACTURE. first but lightly ai^pliecl. Gangi’eue is almost invariably the consequence of the pernicious and dangerous practice of applying a bandage directlij to the limb under the ai^paratus. I have never known gangTene to occur after fracture, except Avhere this has been done, since it is much more likely to occur in those cases in which the fracture is treated by the unskilful application of an immovable apparatus, whether of starch, plaster of Paris, or other similar material, than where splints are used. Indeed, if the splints be well wadded, and no bandage be put on under them, it is almost impossible that an undue or dangerous amount of constriction can be exercised on the limb, so as to intemipt the cir- culation through it. I believe that this accident would rarely, if ever, occur. Fig. 145.—Gajigrene of Foreann and Hand from Tight Bandaging. if the Surgeon were to avoid the direct apphcation of a bandage to the limb, however lightly, in fractures, more particularly in chilcben. The danger of strangulation is especially great if, as happened in the case from which the accompanying cut is taken, the limb be bandaged whilst straight, and then flexed, as the bandage -will then cut in deeply at the flexm’e of the joint, and certainly destroy the vitality of the part, if not of the whole hmb. The pres- sure of an axillary pad, used in many of the fi’actiu’es of the upper extremities, may also tend to the supervention ol gangrene by interfering ivith the return of blood through the axillary vein, and thus causing sloiv strangulation under the : bandage. Hence in these cases the fingers should be left free at their tips, and j examined daily. Even if no direct bandage have been applied, the apparatus I should at once be removed, and the hmb examined, whenever the patient com- plains, e^ en of slight uneasiness : or, indeed, if any appearances of congestion, such as blueness, coldness, oedema, or vesication of the fingers and toes, show themselves. If it be left on beyond this, gangrene will probably set in, slow strangulation going on under the bandages without much, if any, pain. ; \ esications often create much alarm, but too much importance must not be f attached to their mere appearance. They will often occur of very large size, F as has already been stated, as a consequence of the raising of the cuticle by the I transuded serum of extravasated blood. It is only Avhen associated Avith cold- I ness of the limb, a dusky purple hue, and a putrescent odour, that they are ^ indicatiA'e of gangTene. excellent plan of judging of the activity of the cir- j culation in a fractmed limb after it has been put up, is to leave the ends of the ^ ngers or toes untovered by the bandage ; Avhen, by pressing upon one of the ! nails, the freedom of the circulation may be ascertained by noticing the rapidity f with Avhich the blood returns under it. A question of much°medico-leo'al