SPECIAL FRACTURES. 430 from coiifinemenfc to bed during treatment. Hence this injury must always be considered as \cvj dangerous, and not unfrequently fatal. Mode of Union.- ihe treatment of these fi'aetm’es turns in a great measure upon the view that is taken of their mode of union, and on the constitutional condition of the patient. In some cases no union occurs, but the head of the bone remains in the acetabuliun, being hollowed into a smooth, hard, cnp- shaped cavity, in which the neck, whicli has become rounded off and polished, is received, and plays as in a socket. The union of the intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femm- takes place, however, in the great majority of cases by fibrous tissue. This is omng to two causes ; in the first place, to the circumstance (which I look upon as the most important) that the fractured smfaces are not in aiiposition with one another ; and secondly, that the vascular supply sent to the head of the bone, consisting only of the blood that finds its way through the vessels of the ligamentum teres, is insufficient for the proper production of callus. In some cases, however, bony union takes place. This can only happen when, in consequence of the cervical hgament being untorn, or the fracture being impacted, the sm-faces are kept in some degi’ee of apposition, and the vascidar supply to the head of the bone is speedily augmented by the blood carried into it through the medium of the plastic matter that is deposited between the fragments. In no other circumstance is it probable that osseous union takes place in these fine tines : hence the infrequency of its occinrence, there being in all probability not more than eighteen or twenty cases on record as hai’ing thus terminated in this coimtry. 'WTien bony imion does take place, the head of the femm will usually be found to be somewhat twisted roimd in such a way that it looks towards the lesser trochanter, owing to the eversion that has taken place in the lower fragment. Treatment.—As these fractures do not unite by bone, unless the fi’agments- be in good contact, it is useless to confine the patient to bed for any long- period, if the signs, especially the amomit of shortening, indicate considerable separation between the fragments, or if the patient be very aged and feeble. In these circumstances, lengthened confinement to bed most commonly proves- fatal by the depressing influence which it exercises on the general health, by the intercmrence of -visceral disease, or by the supervention of bed-sores. It is therefore a good plan to keep the patient in bed merely for two or three- weeks, imtil the limb has become somewhat less painful, the knee being well supported upon pillows. After this time, a leather splint should be fitted to- the hip, and the patient be allowed to get up upon crutches. There will be- lameness dming the remainder of life; but, with the aid of a stick and properly adjusted splint, but little inconvenience will be suffered. When the fragments do not appear to be much separated, there being but little shortening and indistinct crepitus, and more particidarly if the patient be not very aged, and in other respects sound and well, an attempt may be made to procme osseous union. This may be done by the application of the long thigh-splint; or, if this cannot very readily be borne, by^ the double inclined plane, Avith a padded belt strapped round the hips. This apparatus should be kept applied for at least two or three months, Avhen a leather splint may be put on and the patient move about upon crutches. During the vhole