TRANSPLANTATION OF CUTICLE. 167 covered bj skin in any other -vvay. It has already been explained that the process of cicatrisation of an ulcer always takes place from and through the medimn of pro-existent epidermis ; and further, that the formative force neces- sary for the extension of the cicatrix from the edge gradually becomes weakened, and at last entirely ceases. In such cases, especially when resulting fr’om bimis, haps of skin have occasionally been transplanted. But Reverdin has found ■that this is not necessary, and that all that is required is to idant small islets of fr-eshly separated cuticle on the granulating surface. These adhere where •transplanted, and each islet forms the centre of a neAV process of cicatrisation, which, spreading from its edge, and coalescing with that moulded by the sur- ivounding skin, and by the neighbouring islets of transplantation, soon covers the gramdating siu’face Awth a healthy cuticular cicatrix. The process of cuticular transplantation is as follows. A piece of skin on some sound part of the body—the outside of the arm, for instance—about the size of an oat or a split pea, is pinched up -with a pair of forceps, and snipped off with curved scissors. The whole thickness of the skin need not be sepa- rated, but merely the cuticle down to and including the papillary layer of the •true skin, so as just to show blood. The operation, when properly performed, is almost paiidess. The little patch of separated skin is now jdaced, nuth the raw side do^vnwards, on the surface of the ulcer, covered and retained in position by a strip of isinglass jdaster. It is left undisturbed for about foiu* days, at the end of which time it will be found to be adherent, and speedily becomes the centre of a new process of cicatricial action, which spreads in a gradually vddening circle, until it fuses itself into the cicatricial deposit that is in process of formation from the circumference of the sore, or fr’om other transplanted islets, and thus the cicatrix is rapidly formed. For the success of this little operation, it is necessary that the granulating smface on to which the transplantation is made, be a healthy one ; that it be not the seat of specific disease of any kind, or the result of such disease ; and that the process of cicatrisation have commenced at its edges. The piece of transplanted skin shoidd be tenderly handled, and at once applied and retained by moderate pressure. In placing it in its new position, it is well that the granulations be not bruised, so as to be made to bleed, which would be fatal to the success of the experiment. It is better to apply several small grafts of skin than one large one each new graft acting as a centre of cicatrisation, nnd the process going on more rapidly fr-om several small centres than fr’om one large one. There is one point of importance in respect to the transplanta- tion of cuticle, viz., that the cicatrisation resulthig is often weak, and the cicatiix is apt to break down much more readily than one that has not been produced by grafting. he Constitutional Treatment must be carefully attended to. Unless this le {orie, the best regulated local plan may be employed in vain. Attention to the t igestive organs, and improvement of the constitution, if it be strimious or 8^) 1 itic, will do more in these cases than any other means can accomplish. wiM Pfiticnt requires due care. If he lose weight, an ulcer iiicron^incr^P 1 when the nutrition is capable of maintaining or place ’ that the healing process can be expected to take