293 CATGUT LIGATURES. Catgut was used by Sir Astley CoojDcr as a material that was more likely to dissolve or to be absorbed than silk in any shape. The first cases in which it was employed as a ligatm-e were full of promise. In one, a patient aged eighty, the wound healed in foim days, and in another in twenty, and in neither did the noose of the ligatime re-appear. Whether it was absorbed or encapsuled does not clearly appear. But other Surgeons failed to imitate this success ; the catgut was foitnd to be too weak, and the distinguished author of the practice could not himself' maintain his first success with it, and eventually fell back on the ordinary hempen thread. Strips of deer-skin were used by Jameson, of Philadelphia, and other American Surgeons about the same time, probably in 1814, before Lawrence’s or Cooper’s experiments. They were found to answer better than either silk or catgut, being stronger, more elastic, and more readily soluble. These, however, also fell into disuse, for what reason does not clearly appear. The idea of the emj)loyment of hgatimes made of animal substances, that w’ould admit of absorption, and thus allow the wound to be immediately closed over the noose, so as in fact not to act as foreign bodies in the wound or as agents of suppm-ation, stiU occasionally presented itself to the minds of Sur- geons ; and, amongst others, Velpeau speaks of it with favom’, admitting, however, that their precise natine and form have to be determined. Of late the use of catgut has been revived by Lister, in connection with his “ Antiseptic Method ” of dressing wounds. He uses the catgut soaked in carbolised oil, and has reported favoinably of its employment. Experience has fully jrroved the value of this material in the arnest of hasmornhage, and a case has been reported by Holmes which shows that by its use it is possible completely to occlude a vessel of the size of the subclaviarr without division of its external coat. But very few cases of accident following its use have been reported. Irr one the ligatm’e, which had been applied to the carotid artery, softened and yielded soon after its application ; and in the other ulceration occurred in the coats of the femoral artery at the seat of hgatm’e, and fatal secondary hremorThage took place. In the first case, there is reason to beheve the ligature was not properly prepared; and in the second, the accident would probably have happened in the same way if a hemp or silk hgatm’e had been used. The ligatm'e is far more likely to soften when immersed in decomposing discharges than when buried in healthy granulations; but, even where no antiseptic dressing is adopted, it has been found to hold sufficiently long to ensure the obliteration of the vessel. At University College Hospital it has been used on arteries of all sizes om the femoral downwards, and in no case has any unpleasant consequence lesulted fiom its employment. If finther experience confirm these state- ments, we shall have reached as near perfection as possible in the airest of asmorrhage ; as the catgut ligature combines many of the advantages of ligature, acupressure, and torsion, and has none of their dangers or incon- veniences. The Reparation of the carbolised catgut is of the greatest importance. If feoa ed in pure carbolised oil, it becomes soft and slippery ; it is difficult to tie directions for its preparation are as follows ust be suspended for some weeks in an emulsion of water, carbolic acid