SUTURES AND PLASTERS. 193 passed deeply, through the loops of which, that hang out on one side of the wound, is passed a piece of bougie, or quill, whilst the ends of the thread arc tightly tied over a similar cylinder on the opposite side. The stitehes should enter and emerge about half an inch from the line of ineision, and be so placed that the cylinders when in sifn lie parallel to one anotlier. Fine intemipted sutures may be used in addition, to connect the supeifrcial parts. The twisted or figure-of-8 suture is very eommonly employed in surgery. A slender pin, made of soft iron, with a steel point, is introduced through each lip of the wound, at a distance of about one-third of an inch from the margins ; and, whilst the latter are held in contact, a piece of silk twist is passed in a figure-of-8 round the pin, care being taken not to draw it too tight, nor to compress the soft parts between the needle and the thread, lest sloughing ensue. The projecting ends of the pin are now cut off with pliei-s, and the skin beneath them protected with plaster. This sutme is invanably used in the treatment of hare-lip ; but it is of gveat serviee wherever the lips of the wound are very vascular ; it has the advantage, likewise, of taking the tension off the suture, and transferring it to the tissues themselves, so that it is less likely to cut its way out than the intemipted sutme. The pin may be vithcfravui in about forty- eight hom’s. jj M The serrefine (Fig. 80), a twisted coil of silver wire, with the Jgj/ extremities terminating in small hooks, by means of which the / ? edges are kept in contact, may be had recomse to in cases 'where very acciu-ate union of the lips of a womid is required, as in so.—rue cuts about the face, and the like. The inventor, Vidal de Cassis, seneane. recommends a large number to be used, and that they should be allowed to remain in twenty-four horns. They are made in sizes one to six, the latter being the largest. Plasters are of various kinds, those most commonly employed being the resin, soaji, and isinglass plasters. Each of them possesses peculiar properties, fitting it for use in particidar cases. The resin plaster has the adAantage of being most adhesive, and of not being readily loosened by discharge ; but, on the other hand, it is irritating, sticky, difficult to remove, and, in conse- quence of the lead that it contains, leaves a dirty-looking incrustation behind it. ^ Ihe soap plaster-is less instating, but at the same time less adhesiA’e ; it is consequently not much used in the management of woiuids. The isinglass plaster is doubtless the most cleanly and least irritating of all, and, being tia;nsparent, permits the Siugeon to see what is taking place beneath it ; but it is^ieadily loosened by the discharges, and is apt to run into a cord. ^ "W hichever A'ariety is used, the plaster should be cut into strips of conve- nient length and breadth, and heated by being passed through hot water. All ' supei-fluous hair having been removed, and the surface Avell dried, each strii) should be laid doAvn evenly between the points of suture, Avhen these haA'e been used, so as to compress and support each side of the wound with ecnial force ; the longer the strip, the firmer will be its holding, and the less likely it 1)0 to he prematurely loosened. ] n removing the plaster, both ends should je raised at the same time toAvards the Avound, and the strip should then ba V^OL, I, ^ 0