76? SriNDLE-CELLED SARCOMA. tiuctly fibrillatcd. The tumour may thus closely resemble a lymphaclenoma, but on careful examination the stroma will be found not to be so clearly reti- cular. These tumours arc soft, sometimes even pulpy, and gi’ey or whitish in colour. They very often infiltrate suiTOunding parts. They arc excessively vascular, and often present scattered patches of hiemorrhage or cysts resulting from extravasation of blood. They yield no milky juice when quite fresh, but when decomposition sets in it can easily be obtained by pressure or scraping. Their chief seats are in the skin, bones, subcutaneous areolar tissue, muscles, and occasionally in glands. Their diagnosis cannot be accurately made till after removal. They show a malignancy equal to that of the worst cancers. Their gi-owth is rapid, and they early give rise to secondary deposits, especially in the limgs, and the lymphatic glands are fr’eqiiently affected. One fonn of small round-celled sarcoma has been described by Virchow under the name of Glioma, from its resemblance in structure to the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain. It is composed of an excessively delicate areolar stroma, having round cells imbedded in its meshes. These tumours vary much in consistence, being sometimes soft and sometimes quite fimi. They occur almost invariably in connection vdth the nerves or nervous centres. The tiimoiu’ formerly known as soft cancer of the eyeball is in fact a glioma arising fi’om the retina. It is most common in young children, and fr’equently runs a malignant course, projecting beyond the eyeball, infiltrating siuToimding parts, and gfring rise to secondary deposits. Spindle-celled Sarcoma. Fasciculated Sarcoma. Recurrent Fibroid. Tumour. Fibro-plastic Tumour.—These tumours are composed of spindle- shaped, fusiform, or oat-shaped cells, either lying closely in contact with each other or separated by a homogeneous or fibrous intercellular substance (Fig. 293). The cells vary greatly in size in different tumours, but are usually tolerably equal in the same growth. They may be little more than y-oVo-tfr inch in length, or they may reach entirely across the field of the microscope. This has given rise to the distinction between large and small spindle-celled sarcomata. The intercellular substance is usually more abundant and more fully developed into fibrous tissue in the suiall than in the large-celled growths ; and it is the former, therefore, that gradually merge into fibromata, so that it is often difiicult to determine under which heading to class them, and some writers have given them the name fibro-sarcoma. All spindle-cells, large or small, contain an oval nucleus -with one or more nucleoh. The cells are usually arranged in bands crossing each other in various directions, often giving the growth a fasciculated or fibrous appearance. The vessels, as in other sarco- mata, are abundant and thin-waUed. The small simidle-cclled sarcomata are usually firm in consistence, and of a pinkish or white colour, the central parts being yellow fr’om fatty degeneration. Occasionally they contain cysts filled with straw-coloured fluid, and they may closely resemble in aspect the common fibroid tumour. They form by prefer- ence in fibrous structiues, as fascias, skin, or tendons. They may occiu in inter- muscular spaces, or occasionally in the sheaths of neiwes. Thus I amputated the leg a few years ago for a large tumour of this kind seated on the posterior tibial nerve. Though these tumours are usually distinctly circumscribed and sometimes encapsuled, and run a perfectly innocent course, in many cases