799 TBEAT.UENT OF CANCER. these cases there has been a coin’cyance of cancerous material by the blood, in the form of embola ; and ho supports this view by referring to_ the analogy nointed out by AYalshc as existing between the secondary deposits m cancer Ld the secondary abscesses in pycemia; the liver and lungs in both cases being nrincipally affected. Ho refers also to a case of cancer of the liver, where the <rrowths were coloimed yellow by the bile, and in which he found cancerous ‘^owths of the same colour infiltrated in the lungs. This view is supported by the very important observation of Moxon, that in primaiy cancer of the rectum he has actually found in the secondary deposits in the liver evidences of the rectal origin of the deposit, in the transference with it resembling those of the rectum structures, such as Lieberkiihn’s follicles, in the secondaiy can- cerous hepatic gi-owths. So also in osteoid we find the_ secondary^ deposits in the lungs of a bony character. Paget, however, thinks that it is not necessary to suppose that entire cancer-cells are thus transferred ; cancer- juice, or minute fragments of cancer-plasma, may be as efficient as entire cells. Virchow considers that the fact that the secondary deposit does not necessarily occiu’ in the orsan through which the blood must first pass, militates against the theory that^ cancer-cells are caivied onward by the circulation, and become impacted in the smaller vessels of the part, in the manner of embola. He inclines to the belief that the cancerous juices are absorbed and enter the circulation either directly by the veins or indirectly through the lymphatics, and that they give rise to changes in the nutrition of certain parts, leading to the development of cancerous growths. But this question necessarily involves the whole doctrine of the formation of secondary deposits, whether cancerous, sarcomatous, enchondromatous, osteoid, or pyemic—are they the consequence of specific embola, or of changes wrought simply by the absorp- tion of the fluid constituents of these diseases ? I incline to the former view, and look on these secondaiy cancerous deposits just as I do the pyEemic as the direct result of embolism of a specific character in one case, of a septic in the other. This, however, is at present all matter of hypothesis. So far, however, is certain, that in whatever way we suppose the secondary deposits to be fonned, Ave may safely assume that their presence indicates that the system is charged AA'ith the material of cancer, and that the disease is no longer limited to the spot in which it first appeared. Treatmext oe Caxcer.—The treatment of cancer will necessarily bo in a great measure dependent on the view that is taken of its origin. The constitu- tionalists would necessarily and naturally endeavour to discover some method of preventing the development to or of eradicating that blood-poison, or that general tendency which they suppose underlies the local affection, and to lead to its evolution. They Avould necessarily discard operation as being not only use- less, but eiToneous in principle—as erroneous as it AA^ould be to amputate the foot to relieA'e or cure the gout. The localists, on the other hand, necessarily rely on the remoA'al of the primary local disease at as early a period as possible, as the only means of preventing secondary deposits, and consequent constitu- tional infection. Hence the discussion as to the origin of cancer has a most important practical bearing on the treatment of the disease. All Curative Constitutional Treatment is certainly utterly useless, no constitutional remedies appearing to exercise any material influence on tins disease. I am