721 EMBOLISM. purafcion ; and this state of things is no doubt one of the most frequent causes of disintegration. Diffuse inflammation spreading up the loose connective tissue surrounding the vein not unfrcquently leads to a similar result. The general health of the patient has the same influence on the absorption and organisation of a clot as it has on the growth of healthy granulations on the surface of a wound. In those conditions in which Ave find wounds foul and unhealthy, and discharging sanious or ichorous pus, we susjject that thrombi, if present in any A^essel of magnitude, wiU run great risk of disintegration. Those bad hygienic surroundings and septic or epidemic influences which cause one condition, equally produce the other. Whenever a clot is actually exposed to decomposing matter, it of course rapidly decomposes and disintegrates itself. It is remarkable hoAV very rapidly large clots may become disintegrated, and be washed away by the blood-stream in a state of minute subdivision, sometimes without producing any apparent results. Should, however, the fragments be of larger size, the phenomena of Embolism are produced ; or should they be impregnated Avith the j>roducts of unhealthy inflammation or decomposition, the most grave blood-poisoning is the result: these effects have been carefully studied by Virchow, to Avhose admirable researches science is indebted for an explanation of the results of these j>rocesses. An embolon is a solid body which has entered the current of the circulation. ^It may consist of detached fragments of fibrine, calcareous or atheromatous ‘matter, foreign bodies, or entozoa. The effects which it produces Avill depend upon its size and qualities, and upon the part of the circulation into which it may have entered. Thus it may become arrested in vessels of considerable size, or in the smallest arteries or capillaries ; if it commence its career within an arterial trunk, it may become impacted in the smaller branches or in the capillaries of the systemic circiflation ; Avhereas, if it arise Avithin a vein, it Avill probably be an’ested in the branches of the pulmonary or the portal circulation. Sometimes, though rarely, the special characters of the embolon aviU enable the obserA'^ei" to decide as to what may have been its origin and course. It has been doubted AV'hether a fragment of notable specifle gravity entering the right side of the heart from the vena cava could be propelled into the branches of the pulmonary artery, and thus become imj^acted in the lung ; the exjAeriments of Virchow have, however, indisputably proved the possibility of this occurrence. It is to embolism that modern pathologists ascribe the formation of most, if not all, the metastatic abscesses found in the lungs of patients who have died pyajmic; and they consider that the embolon is derived rather fr’om the destruction of pre-existing thrombi, than from the entrance of true pus into the circulation. Much attention has been directed to the question Avhether the admixture of pus Avith the blood necessarily leads to the occlusion of A^essels and the formation of capillary thrombi; and the inquiry can hardly be said to be exhausted. These can, however, be no doubt that, although the JZZ corrmscles of pus and blood are identical in their microscopic characters, they yet differ materially m their vital properties, and that the presence of nus in anynotable quantities would lead to the occlusion of A’essels anditsconse qucnces. The impaction of an embolon is indicated by the sudden occun-ence of certain general symptoms, such as pain, numbness, or rigor • bu^ ' 1 sjuupto™ w,ll neeessarily var, aceor4'ng to the’orgau^feted f t^ h! 3 A