SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. ^ 733 \ patient exhibits evidences of serious modifications in nutrition and sangui- fication, The body wastes, the skin becomes sallow, the digestive powers become impaired, and anaemia supcr’i'cnes. 9. Death may occur in various ways :—from the exhaustive effects of the discharges, and htemon-hages fi-om the local and primary disease ; from special ’\fisceral disturbances induced by the secondary deposits ; or from malnutrition and consequent cachexy. The malignant tumours are usually of a cancerous nature, but “ malignant ” and “ cancerous ” are not synonymous terms. Every malignant tumour is not a cancer, though every cancer is a malignant growth. Some tmnours occa- sionally present the clinical characters of malignancy, though structurally they are intimately related to others which are usually looked upon as essen- tially non-malignant; and we are thus obliged to consider, that these terms . arc merely relative, and that these two great classes pass into one another by insensible gradations. It Avill be subsequently seen that the sarcomata and some cartilaginous tmnours stand in this intermediate position between the more typical examiDles of these two great groups. Those benign tumours Avhich haA^e a tendency to recur after removal, and thus to run as it were a locally malignant com’se, are usually very rapid in their growth and develop- ment. Indeed, great rapidity of growth may usually be looked upon as evi- dence either of mahgnancy of structure, or of hability to speedy recurrence after extirpation. In some cases, after repeated removals, the tendency to recur- rence appears to wear out, and the patient eventually overcomes the disease. But in other instances this fortunate result does not occur. Where tumours of any kind recur after removal, it Avill often be foiuid that the secondary differs in many important respects from the primary growth. Thus it may be found to be softer, more vascular, and more diffused. In microscopical stiTicture, it may be found to present evidences of greater activity of groAvth, and to depart more Avidely from the normal type. Paget has A'ery fully described varieties of tumours, Avhich, though differing AAudely from cancers in structure, have nevertheless destroyed the patient by repeated reciUTence after removal, and by ultimate ulceration, sloughing, and contamination of neighbouring tissues, or even of distant organs through the medium of the circulation. These tumours he described chiefly under the names, “ fibro-plastic and fibrous ; ” but they are now included under the A'arieties of sarcoma. He also makes the important observation that tumours, apparently similar in structure, may run A’ery different courses in different indiAuduals, in some being in eA'ery way innocent, and in others malignant. Thus a tumoiu’, composed purely of spindle-shaped cells, may in one case shoAV no tendency to recur after removal, or to affect distant parts ; whilst in another it may not only infiltrate smTounding tissues, but ^ve rise to secondary groAvths in internal organs. More extended observa- tion has, hoAvevor, shoAvn one very interesting difference between the mode of recurrence of these tumours, and that of true cancers. A true cancer or carci- noma invariably affects the lymphatic glands before the internal organs; whilst ^ occuiTonce for a sarcoma to become widely disseminated ^J^P^atics showing any signs of implication. would seem, therefore, that, as a rule, carcinoma is disseminated by means