563 OPERATION OF TREPHINING. onij case in which preventive trephining is practised by modern Surgeons, is that of the puncttired or starred fi-actm-c of the skull, without stupor ; in all other instances in which it is called for, the object of its application is the removal of a cause of compression or of irritation of the brain, such as a de- pressed portion of bone, foreign bodies either fixed in the skidl or lying close luider it, or pus or blood extra^'asated within the cranial cavity. The trephine should have a well-tempered cro^ra, serrated half-way up its exterior ; the teeth should be short and broad, and not too fine ; the centre-pin must not project more than about one-sixteenth of an inch, and care must be taken that the screw which fixes it is in good working order. The other instriunents required are a Hey’s saw, an elevator that will not readily snap, and a pair of strong dissecting-forceps. The operation itself should be conducted in the following way. The head having been shaved, and the iDortion of the skull to which the trephine is to be applied ha'^ung been freely exposed by means of a crucial or T-shaped incision, or by the enlargement of any wound that may exist, the trephine, Avith the centre-pin protruded and well screAved down, is to be firmly apjfiied until its teeth touch the skull (Fig. 252); it is then worked with rather a sharp, light, and quick movement, the pressure being exercised as the hand is carried from left to right. The centre-pin must be -withdrawn as soon as a good groove is Fig. 252.—Application of Trephine. Fig. 253.—Trephine-cut at edge of fracture. formed by the croAvn, lest it perforate the skull first and injure the dura mater. ■ quickly divided, and the diploe cut m i tlctritus which noAv rises by the crown of the trephine is soft and bloody, instead of being dry, as it is Avhilst the outer table is being saAvn. As word approaches the diua mater, the saAving must be conducted more ^ J must every now and then be inteiTupted, in order that the Suro-eon y exainine with the flat end of a probe, or Avith a quill, the depth tharhas obtamad, ca.e being taken that this is unilbm thbnghonV he =,ht to-and-fro movement AAdiether the circle of bone is loose. So soon as 002