682 SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE DISEASES. ulceration, covering itself as it extends by an adherent slough, and attacking open sores and wounds. It is rarely met with in its fullest extent, except in military practice ; the accumulation of a large number of wounded persons Avith suppurating sores under one roof, and the want of the proper cleanliness and attention during an active campaign, disposing to it. Overcrowding of a hospital is the most fertile cause of this disease, as well as of other septic diseases. It used formerly to desolate the civil hospitals ; but, thanks to the sanitary measures now generally adopted in these institutions, it has almost disappeared from them, though still an outlmeak of it occasionally takes place, more especially during the winter or early spring months, when, in consequence of cold winds, the windows are kept shut and ventilation is thus interfered Avith. But the occurrence of this foul disease is of itself condemnatory of the sanitary arrangements of the hospital in which it is developed, and in the present state of our knowledge is inexcusable. Local Signs.—When sloughing phagedmna invades a wound or open sore that has hitherto been perfectly healthy, the surface becomes covered with grey soft points of slough, which rapidly spread, until the whole of the surface of the wound is affected. At the same time the sore increases rapidly in super- ficial extent, and commonly in depth ; the snrroimding integument liecomes cedematous, swollen, and of a liA'id red colom*; the edges of the ulcer are everted, sharp-cut, and assume a circular outline; and its smfface is covered Avith a thick pulpy greyish-gi’een tenacious mass, which is so firmly adherent that it cannot be wiped off, being merely moved or sAA'ayed to and fi’o when an attempt is made to remove it. There is usually some dirty yeUoAvish-green or broAvnish discharge, and occasionally some bleeding ; the pain is of a severe biu’ning, stinging, and lancinating character ; and the foetor from the sm’face is great. The ravages of this disease, when fully developed, are very extensive. The soft parts, such as the muscles, areolar tissue, and vessels, are transformed into a grey pulpy mass, and the bones are denuded aud necrosed. The larger blood-A’essels resist the progress of the disease longer than any other parts, but may at last be exposed, pulsating at the bottom of the deep and foul chasm. There is, however, little risk of hemorrhage in the early stages : but, when the sloughs are separating, an artery may give way, and bleeding to a dangerous oi fatal extent ensue. Hennen states that there is most danger of this about the eleventh day. When the sloughs are throAvn off, in the form of reddish-broAvn or greyish-green, viscid, and pulpy masses, a very sensitive granulating sm-face is left, having a great tendency to bleed, and to be again invaded by the sloughing action. . Blackadder has described an nicerated form of this affection, m which a vesicle containing a bloody ichor forms, Avith a hot stinging pain; this breaks, leaAdng a circular ulcer of about the size of a spht pea. The ificcr once formed,''rapidly extends by sharp-cut edges into the siuToundiiig integument. „ , On the two occasions in Avhich I have had, m former years, the nity of Avitnessing outbreaks of this disease m University College Hospital, the sm-face of the woimds affected became rapidly covered Avith a yellowish-gi j pultaceous slough. In some cases there was haimoiihage , ni mos comm i a small quantity of foetid discharge only aa^us poured on , e eeges