SECONDARY EFFECTS OF SPINAL CONCUSSION. 573 necessarily in different cases ; but the exalted sensiljility always includes two, and usually three, at each of these points. It is in consecpience of the pam that is occasioned by any moyenrent of the trunk in the way of flexion or rotation, that the spine loses its natural suppleness, and moves as a whole, as if cut out of one solid pieee, instead of with its usual flexibility. The movments of the head v}wn the xvppci- cervical vertehree are variously aflected. In some cases, the head moves freely in all directions, Avithout pain or stiflPness. In other cases, the gveatest agony is indueed if the Surgeon take the head between his hands and bend it forwards or rotate it; the articulations between the occipital bone, the atlas, and the axis, being evidently in a state of inflammatory in-itation. The pain is usually confined to the vertebral cohmm, and does not extend beyond the transverse processes. But, in some instances, the pain extends widely over the back on both sides, and seems to correspond with the distribution of the posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. In these cases, from the musculo-cutaneous distribution of these nerves, the pain is superficial and cutaneous as well as deeply seated. The muscles of the hade are usually unaffected; but in some cases, where the muscidar branches of the dorsal nerves are affected, they may become very irritable and spasmodically contracted, so that their outlines are very distinct. The gait of the patient is characteristic. He walks more or less unsteadily, generally uses a stick, or if dej)rived of that, is apt to lay his hand on any article of fumitm-e that is near to him, for the purpose of steadying himself. He keeps his feet somewhat apart, so as to increase the basis of support, and consequently walks in a straddhng manner. As one leg is often weaker than the other, he totters somewhat, and raises one foot but slightly off the ground, so that the heel is apt to touch. He seldom drags the toe ; but, as he walks flat-footed as it were on one side, the heel drags. This peculiar straddling, tottering, unsteady gait, vdth the spine rigid, the head erect, and looking- straight forwards, gives the patient the aspect of a man who waits bhnd- folded. The patient cannot generally stand equally well on either foot. One leg usually gives way immediately under him if he attempt to stand on it. He often cannot raise himself on his toes, or stand on them, without immediately tottering forwards. His power of walking is always very limited ; it seldom exceeds half a mile or a mile at the utmost. He cannot ride, even if much in the habit of doing so before the accident. There is usually considerable diffi- culty in going up and down stairs—more difficulty in going down than up. I he patient is obliged to support himself by holding on to the balusters, and often brings both feet together on the same step. A sensation as of a cord tied round the waist, with occasional spasm of the diaphragm, giHug rise to a catch in the breathing, or hiccup, is sometimes met with, and is veiy distressing when it does occur. The nervous power of the limhs will be found to be variously modified, and A\I11 generally be so to very different degrees in the different limbs. Some- times one limb only is affected; in other cases the arm and leg on one side or both legs only, or the arm and both legs, or all four limbs, are the seat o uneasy sensations. There is the greatest possible variety in these respects dependent of course entirely upon the degree and extent of the lesion that lias been mflieted upon or induced in the spinal cord. Sensation or motion