TREATMENT OF VARICOSE VEINS. 927 formed, the condition is permanent, unless the vessel become plugged by coa- gulum, when, it being obstructed, the current of blood is diverted into other channels, which in their turn become varicose. The main evil that results from varicose veins in the legs, is the change that is slowly induced in the nutrition of the skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue by the retardation of the circulation, and the interference with the due return of blood. It is in consequence of the imperfect nutrition of the parts that ulceration of the skin takes place, especially where it is natmally thin, as about the ankles. But there is another condition that may occin- as the result of varicose veins of the legs, viz,, that the varix may give way, the vein may “ burst,” as is generally said. In these cases the word “ biu’st ” is scarcely con-ect. The varix does not give way by pressure from within ; but a process of ulceration goes on from without by which its coats become weakened, so that at last, it being unable to support the column of con- tained blood, a pin-hole aperture forms, which, rapidly enlarging, leads to the profuse htemorrhage. This so-called “ bursting ” of a varicose vein is never so sudden that a Surgeon may not foresee the probability of its occmTence. It may take place on the surface of an nicer, or it may be preceded by indu- ration, reddening, and thinning of the integuments covering the diseased vein. Treatment.—This must be conducted on two principles—to palliate and to cure. The Palliative Treatment consists in moderate compression exercised upon the vessel, so as to support its weakened and dilated coats, and thus prevent its fru’ther distension and the pain occasioned by this, as weU as the other consequences—such as oedema, disorganisation, and ulceration. The pressure must be apphed very smoothly and evenly, lest it irritate and ulcerate the sMn, or produce distension of the vein below the part compressed. For the purpose of compression, bandages and elastic stockings are commonly employed. In some cases, elastic pressure by means of a vulcanised India- rubber band or garter may be apphed around the limb, so as to simulate the action of the valves of the vein ; by compression it cuts off the weight of the cohunn of blood fr’om the terminal branches. In other cases, the appheation of a truss to the upper part of the saphena vein, as recommended by CoUes may be of service. ’ If a varix of the veins of the leg bm’st, violent bleeding may suddenly take place so as to induce faintness, and even death. The copiousness of the bleed- mg may be accounted for by its ocenmng from the cardiac side of the varix he insufficiency of the valves not presenting the ordinary obstacle to the ownward flow of blood. The treatment consists in laying the patient flat on the floor and raising his leg, when the haemorrhage wiU cease. It may be pemanently arrested by the pressure of a compress and bandage. n certam circumstances, it becomes necessary to change the palliative for a Cnratxve plan This is especially requisite in the following three conditions • if the varix be so large as to produce much inconvenience, or to give rise to everepam by its pressure on the nerves in its neighbourhood ; 2, if a varicose vein have burst, or be on the point of giving way • or 3 if in iilccv rfon ^ on its existaoe wiU not heal. Yarioi pla^ o/curative it recommendeci; all of whicli have for their object the obliteration of \bp ve'^ at one point by exciting adhesive inflammation there, and thus causing it