620 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. resuscitated, is alloAvod to get up and ■wallc home, ■when tlie symptoms of asphyxia speedily return. Sliould symptoms of secondary asphyxia, such as stujDor, laborious respiration, dilatation of the pupils, and convulsions, manifest themselves, artificial respiration should be immediately set up, and be main- tained until the action of the heart has been fully restored. In these cases I should, from the very great efficacy of electricity in the somewhat similar con- dition resulting from the administration of the narcotic poisons, be disposed to recommend slight shocks to be passed through. the base of the brain and upper portion of the spinal cord, so as to stimulate the respiratoiy tracts. Asphyxia fr’om the Kespiration of Noxious Gases, such as carbonic acid, is best treated by exposing the surface of the body to cold air, by dashing- cold water upon the face, and by setting up artificial resphation -\nthout delay, if the impression of cold upon the surface do not excite these actions. There is a peculiar variety of this kind of asphyxia, which is occasionally met A\dth among infants, the true natiu-e of which was pointed out to me by Wakley, who, as coroner, had abundant opportunities of witnessing it, as it is not an imcommon cause of accidental death amongst the children of the poor. It is that condition in which a child is said to have been overlaid; the child, sleeping with its mother or niuse, being foimd in the morning suffocated in the bed. On examination no marks of pressure avQI be found but the right cavdties of the heart and lungs are gorged with blood, and the siuface is livid, clearly indicating death by asphyxia. That this accident is not the re- sult of the mother OA’erlaying her child, is not only evident fr-om the post mortem appearances, but Avas clearly proved by a melancholy case to which I was called seA'eral years ago, in which a mother, on waking in the morning found her tAvin infants lying dead, one on each side of her. Here it was eAudent, fr-om the j)osition of the bodies, that she could not have overlayed both. The true cause of death is partly the inhalation of, and slow suffocation by, the vitiated air Avhich accumulates under the bed-clothes that have been dravm, for the sake of Avarmth, over the child’s head, and partly the diminished supply of oxygen. In such cases, resuscitation by artificial respiration should always be attempted if any signs of life be left. Asphyxia from the respiration of Carbonic oxide is more fr-equent than Surgeons are apt to imagine. As has been afready stated in the chapter on Burns, death often takes place in cases where builduigs are on fire from poisoning- by the respiration of carbonic oxide. According- to Leblanc, it is this gas that is the poisonous agent given ofP in the fumes of charcoal. Lhe effect of the respiration of carbonic oxide gas is to deprive the red corpuscles ef their power to carry oxygen, and death takes place rather from the want of oxygen than from the poisonous action of carbonic oxide itself. The inhalation of oxygen is of service in such cases, but it must be borne in mind that death is generally very rapid. _ In cases of Hanging, death seldom results fr-om pine asphyxia, m is usually the consequence, to a certain degree at least, of apoplexy, and craimon y of simultaneous injury of the spinal cord. In these cases, bleeding om e jugular vein may be conjoined Avith artificial respiiation. ^ ^ If there should be a difficulty in setting up artificial respiration through the mouth or nose, as is more especially likely to happen when the patient has