568 IN'JUEIES OF THE SPINE. ihe Secondary Symptoms of sovere concussion of fclio spine are usually those of the development ot inflammation in the meninges and in the cord itsell. J-hey consist of pain in some part or parts of the spine, gTcatly in- cicascd by piessiuc and motion, and Tif/uliiii ot the vertebral cohunn, the patient moving it as a whole. The pain is greatly increased by all movements, but especially by those of rotation. It frequently extends as a line down the limbs or as a circle round the body, giving the sensation of a cord tied tightly. If the case go on to the development of acute inflammatory action in the cord and its membranes, spasms of a serious character come on ; at first, usually of the natirre of trismus ; then general spasms of the body and hmbs, mostly followed by speedy death from the exhaustion produced by their repetition. It the inflammation become chronic or subacute, permanent alteratmis in the structure of the cord will ensue, leading to incmable paralytic affections, usually confined to the lower extremities, but sometimes influencing the brain, and associated with great and deep-seated derangement of the general health. White softeninrj of the cord, unassociated with signs of uiflammation of it or its membranes, may be the result of a blow on the back. In this condition paralysis of sensation or motion, often accompained by peculiar rigidity of the muscles, may come on, and ultimately advance to general j)aralysis. Causes of Death.—Concussion of the spinal cord from a severe and direct blow upon the back may prove fatal at very different periods, depending partly on the situation of the blow, and in a gneat measme on the lesions to which it has given rise. Sudden and fatal paralysis has often occurred, without leaving after death any lesion of the cord that coifld be assigned as the cause of death. Abercrombie says, “ Concussion of the cord may be speedily fatal without producing any morbid appearance that can be detected on dissection.” Ami he refers to a case related by Boyer, and fom’ recorded by Trank, in confirma- tion of this remark. In other cases, the fatal result may be occasioned by direct and demonstrable injury of the spine or cord. There appear to be four forms of lesion that will lead to death in spinal concussion from direct severe violence. 1. HgemoiThage within the spinal canal:—a. Between the vertebrae and the dura mater ; h. Between the membranes and the cord; c. In both situations. In these respects, intravertebral extravasations resemble closely those which occiu’ as the result of injury within the cranium. 2. Laceration of the pia mater and hernia of the cord. 3. Extravasation into the substance of the cord. 4. Inflammation, and, perhaps, suppuration of the meninges, mth softening and disintegration of the substance of the cord. This disintegration is, doubt- less, of an acute and probably inflammatory character. Concussion of the spinal cord from a direct and severe injiuy of_ the biick may also teiminate in complete recoveiy after a longer or shortei tune, or in incomplete recovery. The probability of the termination in leco'seiy oes no depend so much on the actual severity of the immediate symptoms that may have been occasioned by the accident, as on their persistence. If they continue