58 AMP UTA TIONS. While the percentage of deaths after primary amimtation of the thigh exceeds that after secondary amputation, the rate of mortality in amputations of the leg, fore-ai-m, and arm is gi-eater after the secondary than after the primary operation, especially iu the upper limb. Primary amputation of the thigh is, indeed, one of the most fatal operations in Smgery. Thus of 40 cases of primaiy amputation recorded by Malgaigne, 34 perished ; of 18 cases in the Massachusetts Hospital at Boston diu’ing the fi^•e yeai’s 1863— 1868, lo died ; 9 cases out of ten died at the London Hospital dining the years 1863 1866 ; and of 24 cases recorded by South, Lawi'ie, and Peacock, as occuiTing at St. Thomas’s Hosjiital, the Glasgow Infhmary, and the Edinbiu’gh Infhmary, every one pierished. The danger of amputation of the thigh for injiuy is increased in proportion to the height at which the limb is severed. It is least in those cases where the operation is done for injury of the leg or knee-joint, and greatest when it is performed for compound fi’acture of the femiu’, recovery ft’om which is very rare. This excess of mortality after primary amputation of the thigh must be referred mainly to the intensity of the shock, whether produced by the operation itself, or, more often, by the injiuy which has rendered its performance necessary. The sudden distiu’bance of the balance in the supply of blood, caused by the removal of so large a portion of the body, may also contribute to the danger. In primary amputations of the leg, arm, and fore-arm, howei'er, the influence of these causes is relatively less, while in secondary amputations of these parts, as well as of the thigh, shock is much less intense. In these, the chief danger arises from py®mia, gangrene, diffuse inflammation, secondary htemoirhage, and all those morbid conditions that are favom'ed by defective hygienic circumstances, and which apj)ear to exercise a more luiifoimly unfavourable influence over the secondary amputations than shock does over the primary. The foUomng are the main causes of death after amputations, as pubhshed in the Beports of four Metropolitan Hospitals up to 1871. In 187 primary amputations, 90, or 48'6 per cent., died ; of these 90 deaths, 21 occiured from shock, and 30 from pyasmia. In 84 secondary amputations, 50, or 59*5 per cent., and of these oidy 3 perished from shock, wliilst 22 were the victims of lyiemia. In 350 amputations for disease, 98, or 27'4 per cent., died ; of these none were destroyed by shock, but 34 by pytemia.* In military practice, secondary amputation is, in general, more fatal than primary. Thus, Faiu'e saved only 30 out of 300 secondary ampntatioiis, whilst LaiTey saved thi'ee-foiu’ths of those in which he amputated primarily. In the Peninsular war, the mortality after secondary amputation of the upper extremity was tivelve times, and after secondary amputation of the lower limb, three times, as great as after primary amputation of these parts. In the British army in the Crimea, fr'om the 1st of'April to the close of the war, the relative rates of mortality per cent, after primary and secondary amputations were as follow:—after primary amputations at the shoidder, 26 ; of the arm, 17 ; of the fore-arm, 3 ; of the thigh, 62 ; of the leg, 30 ; and of the foot, 17 ; after secondary amputations at the shoulder, 66 ; of the arm, 31 ; ot the fore-arm, 28 ; of the thigh, 80 ; and of the log, 76. Or, for the upper extremity, the whole rate of deaths after primary was 15, against 41 after * “Hns)iit«lism,’’ &c., p. 20.