i8i TREATMENT OF SHOCK. importance of the part woimclccl. Tims, if the whole of a limb be tom away by a cannon-shot, or crushed by a railway-train, the shock will be severe from the extent of the mutilation, thongh the part injured be not immediately necessary to life ; whilst, on the other hand, if a man be shot by a pistol-bullet through the abdomen, though the extent of the injury be trifling, and merely a few drops of blood escape, yet the shock to the system Avill be severe, owing to the importance in the economy of the part injimed. The Siu’geon not un- ft-cquently employs this fact as an accessory means of diagnosis. Thus, if a man break his leg, and at the same time strike his abdomen, and the shock be very serious and long continued, without sign of rallying, the probabihty is that some severe injmy has been inflicted upon an internal organ ; injury of the viscera occasioning greater severity and longer continuance of shock than a wound of a less vital part. In extreme cases, the depression of power characterising shock may be so great as to teiminate in death. Jordan describes two kinds of death from syncope, as being produced by shock. In cases where the imp)ression is sudden and violent, the heart is contracted and empty, or nearly so. More frequently, however, there is a sudden arrest of the contractile power of the heart, and its cavities contain more or less partially coagulated blood. In the great majority of instances, however, reaction comes on, and the disturbed balance in the system is gradually restored, lilot unfr’equently the reaction runs beyond the limits necessary for this, and a febrile state is induced, the traumcitic fever, which udll be presently described. Pathological Appeaeancbs.—There are no absolutely characteristic mortem appearances after death fr’om shock. The heart is often found full of blood, especially the right auricle and ventricle, and the whole venous system is somewhat gorged, unless the jiatient has lost much blood from the accident. The blood was said by Hunter to remain fluid in some cases of death from shock, but this is certainly of very rare occurrence. Rigor mortis is usually well marked. Ireatheht. If the distm'bance be chiefly mental, the patient will usually rally speedily on being spoken to in a kind and cheering manner, or on having a little mne and water, or ammonia, administered. If the shock l)e moie severe, and be the result of considerable injiuy, the jiatient should be laid iu the recimibent position, and the injimed part aiTanged as com- lOTtably as possible ; he should be capped up in warm blankets, hot bottles s 01 be applied to the feet, and fr-iction to the hands and surface ; a little uarm tea, vine, or spirits and water, may be administered, provided the msensibflity be not complete ; if it be complete, the fluid should not be given, as It niight then find its way into the larynx. In these circumstances, ammonia should be applied to the nostrils, and a stimulating enema admi- nistered. When there is much pain associated with the shock, a few drops of au anum may advantageously be given. By such treatment as this, the cileries of the neiwous and vascular systems are gradually restored ; and then reaction speedily comes on. Operation during occurs in these cases ; continuance of shock. Shock.—A question of considerable importance fr-equently viz., whctlier an operation should be performed during the As a general rule, it certainly should be deferred until