FO ISO NED WOUNDS. 252 ^osif oxamiiuition, the best mode to prevent injurious consequences is to tie a string tightly round the finger above the injury, thus causing the blood to fiow, and perhaps to carry out the virus vith it. The part should then be ■well washed in a stream ot cold water at a tap, and sucked for some minutes; in this way any pioisonous matter that has been introduced may usually be got rid of. It is better not to apply caustics; they only imtate and inflame the finger, and can do but httle good. If any caustic be employed, it should be a drop of nitric acid let fall into the wound, or of pure carbolic acid, which is the only escharotic that has the power of destroying animal ^'irus. The nitrate of silver, Avhich is commonly employed, can never do much good, as it does not penetrate to a sufficient depth to be of service. Dissectors should bear in mind that the state of the constitution exercises great influence upon the effects of the pimctm’e; and that, in proportion as the health is soimd and the body not exhausted by over-fatigue, there is less likelihood of any injimious consequences ensuing. In the shghter forms of dissection-wound, attended by a moderate amount of inflammation, the part must be poulticed, leeches should be apphed, and the arm put in a shng. If the absorbents become inflamed, chamomile and poppy fomentations must be diligently used, abscesses must be opened early, and free incisions shoidd be made wherever there is much tension, even though matter have not already formed, with a view to prevent suppimation. The general treatment of clearing out the boAvels 'with a free calomel j)m’ge, followed by moderate stimulation, must be adopted in the early stage ; but tonics and strong- support will soon be required, and, if there be much constitutional h-ritation, opiates may advantageously be administered. The treatment of the more severe forms of dissection-injury consists principally in fomentations, and in early and very free incisions into the finger or other parts tha\; become tense and brawny. In the constitutional treatment, oiu- great reliance, after clearing out the intestinal canal by a free purge, con- sists in the administration of bark, ammonia, camphor, -wine, and brandy, ■«dth such fluid noiuishment as the patient can take ; the case being treated as one of the lowest forms of asthenic inflammation. If the patient survive, he must be sent as soon as possible into the coimtry, and must devote some months, perhaps, to the re-establishment of his health. The punctm-ed part often con- tinues irritable for a great length of time, even for many years, remaining red, inflamed, and desquamating, pustides sometimes appearing on it. This con- dition is best remedied by the occasional appheation of nitrate of silver. In conclusion, I cannot too strongly urge upon the dissecting student that unless he take scrupulous precautions as to cleanliness and disinfection, he may readily contaminate with septic poison any patient whose wound he dresses. Iso dissecting student or operating sm-geon who has examined a dead body ought to approach a patient without having pres-iously changed his Avoollen clothes, and, after washing, soaked his hands in carbolised water, or otherv ise disinfected himself.