COLLATERAL CIRCULATION. 301 desirable that acupressure should be substituted for it. lu many instances also, and in some even whore union by the first intention is not possible, acupres- kire is a most convenient and safe method of arresting bleeding from vessels which it may be very difficult to expose and tie. Thus, in lacerated or incised wounds of the scalp, in injuries of the hand or foot, the bleeding may often be at once controlled by the pressure of the needle and -\vire. Indeed, it appears to me, that sound as may be the principle on which acu- pressure is based, in practice it cannot and need not be substituted for the ligature, but that it may be employed advantageously in conjunction with fr, each method being applied to those vessels or in those cases to which and in which it seems most useful ; and that the Smgeon -will act more wisely in being eclectic rather than dogmatic in the employment of his means for arrest- ing arterial hromoiThage, in some cases using styptics, in others compression or torsion or the carrtery, acupressru’e or the ligature, as the particular case seems to rreed it. Because one method is good, the others are not necessarily bad ; because one is peculiarly applicable in one case, it does not foUow that it is equally so in all. ' Collateral Circulation.—When the main artery of a limb has been liga- tured, or in any other way occluded, it is only the direct flow of blood that is inteiTupted ; the indirect supply which is conveyed into the limb or part, by the frne communication between the anastomosing vessels of the different por- tions of the arterial system, being sufficient to preserve its vitality, and to prevent the occru-rence of gangrene. So free and ready are the inosculations kept up between different portions of the arterial system, that, after the largest arteries in the body, such as the subclavian, ihac, and aorta, have been ligatured, sufficient blood to support life is at once conveyed into the distal parts supplied by them. This collateral circulation is most active and most readily main- tained in early fife, when the vessels are pliant and elastic, readily accommo- dating themselves to the increased quantity of blood that they are required to convey. As age advances, the vascular system becomes less elastic, and there is a greater difficulty in the establishment and maintenance of the collateral circulation. The anastomosing vessels which serve this piu-pose are invariably furnished by arteries contiguous to that which is ligatured, and come off from the same side of the body. Thus, for instance, after the ligature of the super- ficial femoral, it is by the profunda artery that the supply of blood is carried to the lower extremity. Thus also, when the common carotid is ligatured, the circulation to the parts it supplies is not maintained through the medium of the opposite carotid, although the inosculations between the ultimate branches of the two v^essels are so free upon the throat, and the face, and within the cranium ; but it is by means of the inferior thyroid and vertebral arteries, (branches of the subclavian on the same side), which become greatly enlarged, that the supply of blood is kept up to the parts on the outside, as well as in the inside of the cranium. The supply of blood that is sent to a limb, after the deligation of the main trunk, is at first but small in quantity ; being merely sufficient for the mainte- nance of its vitality, but not enough for the continuance of the usual ftmetion of the part. Hence, although the life of a limb may be preserved after the ligature of its artery, it becomes cold, and the patient is unable to move it for