322 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. Varicose Aneurism is very rarely met A\ith in this situation. There is indeed only one case on record. It was situated close to the skull, and resulted from a bullet woimd. TempobAL Artery.—Traumatic Aneurism of the Temporal Artery, and of its branches, occasionally occurs as the result of partial division of these vessels in cupping on the temple. I have met with two cases of this kind, in both of which the disease was readily cm-ed by laying the tumour open, turning out its contents, and tying the artery on each side of it. Htcmorrhage fr’om the Deep Arteries of the Face, as in gun-shot injuries, if too copious to be restrained by cold, requires the hgatm-e of the common or external carotid. Vertebral Artery.—Wounds of the vertebral artery occasionally occm’ as the result of stabs in the neck; and several cases of traumatic aneurism in this situation have been recorded. In these wounds there is a danger of mistaking the source of the htemorrhage, as pressure on the carotid, if made below the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, arrests the flow of blood in the vertebral as well, which, up to this point, hes immediately beneath it. This transverse process is at least twm inches above the cla^dcle, and hes much higher than is usually supposed. There are no less than eleven cases on record, in which the carotid has been tied for a wound of the vertebral, in con- sequence of this mistake. When the woimd of the artery is situated between two transverse processes, ligature is almost impossible, and the Siugeon will be obhged to trust to plugging the wound, and to the use of styptics. The recorded cases of this injiny are fully reviewed by Holmes in his lectiues on the Surgical Treatment of Aneurism. VESSELS OP THE UPPER LIMB. SuBCLAVlAE" Artery.—A Wound of the Subclavian Artery may almost invariably be looked upon as fatal ; though, in consequence of the manner in which the vessel is protected by the clavicle, this injm’y can scarcely occm- except from gun-shot violence. From the rapidly fatal natm-e of woimds of the subclavian artery. Traumatic Aneurisms in this situation are not met with ; but where the artery passes into the axilla below the margin oi the first rib, they are not unfrequent. Aneurismal Varix, residting from wound of the Siibdavian Artery and Vein, has been seen, notivithstanding the separation that exists between the two vessels throughout their whole extent. These injm-ies have hkeiyise usually been the result of sword-thrusts, and do not admit of any sm-gicai interference. . Axillary Artery.—In Open Wounds of tbe Axillary Artery and of its Branches, the rule of practice consists in cutting down upon the bleeding > vessel and ligaturing it on each side of the wound. It must be borne m mind that, the arterial branches given off between the lower edge of the first rib and the fold of the axilla being very numerous, a pimctm-ed wound of the axilla or side of the chest may injure one of these vessels ; though tiom its com sc, anc the fr-ee flow of arterial blood that has followed the stab, it maybe supposed that the axillary artery itself has been punctured. The particular vessel iiijm-ed can