OTFAIATION OF TBANSFUSION. 269 proves iudircctly and remotely fatal. The body of a person who has died from the etfects of lumnorrhage presents a pccnliarly blancdied, semi-transparent, waxen look ; the lips, aho of the nose, and finger-nails, have a somewhat li’sdd apix^arance, contrasting strongly with the clear, yellowish-white hue of the general snrtace. Arterial is more dangerous than venous ha3morrhage. The same quantity of blood poiwed out from a Avounded artery Avill produce a greater effect on the system than an equal loss of blood from a divided vein. Children bear the loss of blood badly—a A-ery small haemorrhage may induce fatal syneope iu infants. * Tre^atjeext.—The General Treatment of haemorrhage is sufficiently simple. After the floAV of blood has been ai-rested by proper local means, such as AAnll hereafter be described, the effects of its loss ai-e usually speedily recovered from by rest and good nourishment. In some cases, however, the nutritiA’e process becomes permanently impaired, and a state of chronic antemia is induced ; AA’hich, iiotAAithstanding the administration of chalybeate preparations, may continue tlnough life, and terminate in cachexia, phthisis, or diarrhoea. ■\Vhcn the loss of blood is considerable, and is attended by symptoms of much prostration, it may be necessary to have recourse to immediate measm’es iu order to prevent the syncope from being fatal. With this Anew the patient should be laid recumbent, AAoth the head Ioav ; and pressin-e may be exercised upon the abdominal aorta or the main arteries of the limbs, or Esmarch’s elastic bandage and toimiiquet may be applied, so as to confine the blood as much as possible to the nervous and circulatory centres. If death appear imminent from the effects of the htemorrhage, as happens in some cases of flooding, recourse may be had to transfusion of blood ; the influence of Avhich, in restoring the failing powers of the heart and nervous system, is immediate and most striking, and has been unquestionably determined by the obserA'ations of Blundell and other obstetricians. Operation of Transfusion.—Although there is reason to belieA'e that Transfusion of Blood was not unknoAvn to the ancients, and the method by Avhich it could be practised was distinctly described by Libavius in 1G15, little A\-as done on the subject until Sir Christopher Wren, in 1657, proposed and practised the operation of injecting medicated liquids into the veins of animals. The operation aaus first jDerfornied on man in France, by Denis and Emmerets, on June 15, 1607. In NoA'ember of the same year, it was done in this eountry by Drs. LoAA’’er and King. In the early experiments, the blood of sheep and calves aa'us used. The most extraA’agaEit ideas AA'cre formed as to the utility of transfusion. It was supposed to be capable of cming diseases by substituting the blood of a healthy animal for that of a diseased person, of remoAung insanity by the injection of the blood of animals of a gentle and docile character into the A'eins of a maniac, and of prolonging life indefinitely. These pretensions led to a scientific controversy of the most A’iolent kind ; and, some deaths haAu'ng oecurred from the practice, partly in consequence of the rude and imperfect instruments used, transfusion Avas prohibited in France, and fell into disrepute in England. Although the subject was occasionally rcAiA’ed, little attention Avas paid to it until about fifty years ao-o Avhen transfusion was again practised by Dr. Blundell, Avho AA’isely restrictedits employment to those cases chiefly occuring in obstetric practice, in AA^hich, in