127 COXSTITUTIOXA L TEE A TMENT. lest jJcrmimeiit ill effects to the health ensue. Blood-letting is certainly not often required in the treatment of surgical inflammations ; and it should be- especially aA'oided in A’ery young and in vciy old subjects, in the inhabitants of large tOAsms generally, or in persons who suffer from inflanunation of a specific character. It should never be employed unless an organ of great importance to the economy, as the lung or brain, for instance, be inflamed, or so injiu-ed that inflammation is imminent; or unless a tissue, like the transparent stracture of the eye, be affected, in which case it is absolutely necessary, at any risk, to cut short an inflammation before it gives rise to a change of structure, which, how- ever shght, would be fatal to the utility of the part. The quantity of blood that should be taken necessarily varies gTeatly, according to the age and con- stitution of the patient, and the nature of his disease ; and it is of importance- to bear in inind that, when blood-letting is really required, the system tolerates- the loss of the vital fluid in a way that it does not othenvdse. The effect produced on the piflse and on the system should be the guide to the quantity to be taken away. A decided impression shoidd be produced by blood-letting, not so much on the frequency of the pulse, as on its character ; that should guide us, and not the number of ounces dra^vn. The point to be obtained is the greatest effect upon the system udth the least loss to the patient; hence the- blood should be taken fr’om a large orifice in the median basilic or the median cephalic vein, the patient sitting upright. In repeating the venesection, Ave- must be guided by the impression that has been made upon the disease, and by the state of the pulse. By blood-letting, when it is indicated by the severity of the inflammation, or by the importance of the part affected, Ave not only lessen the force of the circidation, but Ave also abstract at once fr'om the system a quantity of blood that has been deteriorated by an accmnidation of the products of the Avaste of tissues. It is especially in those forms of inflamma- tion, therefore, in which the blood is early and abundantly charged Avith these products, in which it is superfibrinated to a great extent, as in inflammation of serous membranes and of fibrous tissues, that blood-letting has been proved by experience to be of service. Whether blood-lettiiig be practised or not, we must endeaA'oiu to set the secretions free, and in this Avay to clear the blood of the morbid products accu- mulated in it. If we can bring about a full action from the liA'er or boAvels, Avith copious bilious evacuations, abundant secretion of acid perspiration fr-our the skm, or a copious discharge of urine loaded Avith lithates, we shall often at once cut short the disease. With these objects in AieAv, purgatives, diapho- retics, and diuretics arc to be administered. • should always be given early, except in some special cases of acute inflarmnation of the abdominal organs. They clear the intestinal canal free the secretions, and equalise the circulation. In general, it Arill be found most advantageous to adimuistcr a mercurial, followed by a brisk saline puro-c • and t us s ould be repeated fr-om time to time during the progress of the case Diuretics and diaphoretics require to be administered frequently dm-im- antimonials should bo giA'en in small and ‘7 foice ot the hearts action is lessened, and the skin and kidnevs are