ADENOMA OR GLANDULAR TUMOUR. 7^3 composed merely of fibroid tissue tuuuelled in tdl directions by dilated vessels. These tumours, if left unrelieved, im-ariably terminate fatally from the abundant hmmoiThage to which they gi\'o rise, and the effect they have in interfering with the escape of urine from the bladder ; but they ne^•er give rise to secondary deposits or imnde siiiTounding structures, and are consequently non-mahgnant. They will be more fully described under diseases of the bladder. The o-cneral principles of Treatment of these affections consist in their removaf by excision, ligatme, or caustics, according to their size, situation, and attachments. Excision is usually preferable when they arc seated on mucous surfaces ; the ligature should be used if they be hnge and pendulous ; and caustics should be employed when they arc seated on the skin or a muco- cutaneous surface. The term “polypus ” may perhaps be more conveniently defined here than elsewhere. It is purely clinical, and has no pathological meaning. It merely means a tumour growing from the mucous surface lining a ca'\ity, haAdng a distinct peduncle and a rounded, oval, or papillary form. Thus the ordmary l^olyiAUS of the nose is usually a myxoma, and. the malignant polypus a sarcoma. Polypus of the uterus is a fibroma or myofibroma, and polypus of the rectum often a papilloma, and sometimes a form of cancer. Simple polypi are usually coA'ered by a prolongation of the mucous membrane from which they grow. Thus the mucous polypus of the nose is covered by a membrane bearing ciliated epithehum. Adenoma. Glandular Tumours. Pancreatic Sarcoma. Lobular Hypertrophy of Glands, &c.—These tumours resemble secreting glands in structm-e. Secreting glands are racemose or tubular, and consequently many Avriters diAide adenomata into two corresponding classes. The Tubular Adenomata are composed of masses of tubules resembling the crypts of Lieberkfihn, some closed and some open on the surface. They are usually papillary, and seated on some parts of the intestine. They often form jDoljqAoid tumoiu’s. When simple and with well marked papilla3, they might 2)crhaps be more properly spoken of as paj)illomata, and they AAnre consequently mentioned under that class. When shoA\'ing the well marked malignancy so common to these growths, they are perhaps more conveniently classed Avith carcinomata, either under the name of columnar epithelioma or adenoid cancer. They Avill, therefore, be more fully described hereafter. The Hacemose or Acinous Adenomata resemble in structure more or less perfectly a racemose gland, and are found always in connection Avith such organs (Figs. 290, 291). They are composed of rounded or irregular spaces lined Avith a peculiar small epithelium, someAA'^hat square or rounded in form, and fr-equently many layers deep. The spaces comuumicate Avith each other, cither'directly or by means of more or less jAerfect duct-like channels. The acini, Avhich are more or less Avidely separated, are bound together by fibrous tissue, bearing vessels, and containing cells varying in shape and number. In the most typical forms the cells are merely such as are seen in ordinary con- nective tissues ; but if the tumour be groAving rapidly, large numbers of small round or oval cells are found (Fig. 291). Sometimes the tissue betAveen the acini may be composed entirely of spindle-cells, in fact, may haA’e the structiu-e of a spindle-celled sarcoma ; the tumour is then often spoken of as an adeno-