TREATMENT OF FRACTURED' RADIUS. 423 Tjosition, so as to make it lie against the back of the foreann, and held theie, ivhile another straight splint, extending from the elbow to the lower end of the upper fragment, is placed on the inner side of the forearm. Both sphnts should then be fixed by means of a roUer, care being taken to have the inner sphnt well padded along the radial border, so as to counteract the tendency to pro- nation of this part of the bone. The arm must then be placed in a sling. The pistol-splmt should be worn for a fortnight or thi’ee weeks. At the end of this time a gauntlet of gutta-percha, or other plastic material, may be moulded to the UTist and worn instead of the splint. All apparatus should be discontinued at the end of five weeks in the adult, one week earlier in childi’en. When the fr’actiue is impacted, little if any alteration in the deformity can be produced. When it is mobile, it may usually be brought into good position. The fractiue unites in the coiuse of a month or five weeks. After the fii’st few days it is well, especially in elderly jieople, to leave the fingers fr’ee, and to encoiu’age movement in them, lest that painful stiffness Kg- m.-Pistoi-spimt shaped to hand, result which is so common a secpiela of the accident. Passive motion of the joint may, however, often be commenced earher than the miion of the fracture, with great advantage to the pa- tient, more particularly when the fractiu’e is impacted. It is often fidly three months before the stiffness of the hand and vuist is so far diminished, even by the use of friction and douches, as to enable the patient to use the fingers, the stiffness of the wi'ist being often due to the extension of a fissure into the joint. It sometimes happens that ( in both arms the radius is broken at the same time in this situation, con- stituting a somewhat serious condi- tion, inasmuch as the patient is not able to feed or assist himself in any way during the treatment. The accompanying Figs. 172 and 173, represent two fomis of splints that have justly many advocates, \iz., Gordon’s and N61aton’s. I have, however, obtained such excellent results from the use of the “ pistol ” splint, that I have not found it necessary to adopt any other plan of treatment. Fig. 172.—Gordon’s Splint. Fig. 173.—Nelaton’s Apparatus.