FRACTURES. 364 these into position, find much less retain them there, imless all muscular influ- ence be rcmoYed. In ordinary fractures, no force is necessary or should ever be employed for accomplishing this ; but attention to the attachment of the muscles of the limb and proper relaxation of them is all that is requii’cd. In impacted fractures it is occasionally necessary to use force in order to dis- entangle the fragments, but this is the only form of fractmn in which its employment is justifiable. In effectmg the reduction, not only must the length of the limb be restored, but its natural ciu'ves must not be obliterated Ijy making it too straight. Prevention of Return of Displacement.—After the reduction has been accomplished, means must be taken to prevent the retimi of the displacement; for, if the parts be left to themselves, muscular action, or the involuntary move- ment of the patient, mU be certain to bring about a return of the faulty position. In many cases, it is exceedingly difficult, for the first few days, to keep the ends of the bone in place, in consequence of spasmodic movement of the muscles of the limb, or of restlessness on the part of the patient. About this, however, the Surgeon need not be anxious, as no union takes place for the fii-st week or ten days ; at the expiration of that time the muscles wiU have probably lost their instability, and the patient have become accustomed to his position, so that with a little patience, or by varying the apparatus and the position of the limb, good apposition may be maiatained. The retm’n of displacement is prevented, and the proper shape and length of the limb are maintained, by means of landages, sjAmfs, and special apparatus of various kinds. In applying these, care shoidd be taken not to exert any undue pressime on or forcible extension of the limb. Pads and compresses of all kinds should, if possible, be avoided; they do no good that cannot be effected by proper position, and even occasion serious mischief by inducing sloughing of the integuments, over which they are applied. A screw-appa- ratus has been invented with the view of forcing fragments into proper position, but nothing cair be more imsm’gical and unscientific than such barbarous contrivances. In cases in which there is much tendency to a retmai of the displacement, it has been recommended to diwide the tendons of some of the stronger muscles inserted into the lower fragment. This, however, can very rarely be necessary; and in those cases in which I have done it, or seen it done, no material benefit has resulted. The Bandages used for fractiu’es should be the ordinary gvey caheo rollers, about three finger-breadths in width, and eight yards in length. In applyiug them, especial care must be taken that the timns press evenly upon every part, and that the bandage be not applied too tightly in the fii’st instance. No bandage should be apphed under the splints, more particularly at the fleximes of joints, and care must be taken that the limb be not bent, or its position otherwise materially altered, after bandages have been applied. A baiidage wider the splints is not only useless, but highly dangerous, by inducing risk of strangulation. No bandage should be applied to the paid of the limb that is the seat of fracture. The part below the fracture may be sometimes adA'an- tageously bandaged, in order to prevent oedema; thus, in fracture of the humerus, the fingers and forearm may be bandaged with this view, but no turns