426 SPECIAL FRACTURES. one tlicre was also fracture through tlie pubic bone ; in the other, the sacrum ^\'as the only bone injured. In it, the fr-actiu-e was the result of a blow on the lower part of the back by the buffer of a railway can-iage. The preparation is in the University College Museum. The only other preparation with wliich I am acquainted, is one in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. These Irac- tm-es are almost invariably transverse, with displacement forwards of the upper mai-gin of the lower fragment. This was the case in both the instances under my care ; but Eicherand has published a case in which this bone was split vertically in consequence of a fall on the face ; and its crucial and multiple fracturc has been described by others. The injiuy can necessarily only arise fr-om direct violence of a severe character, and is attended by much extravasa- tion and pain, together with neiwalgia along the course of the posterior sacral nerves, which may be implicated in or irritated by the fr’acture. The Treatment would consist in the application of a padded pelvic band. The Coccyx, though more exposed, is seldom broken. But fractme of it may occur from falls backwards, or from direct blows on the part, the tip being bent forcibly forwards, and the elements of the bone separated. The pain in these cases is excessively severe, owing to the bruising of the ligamen- tous and tendinous expansions that cover the bone. It is greatly increased in sitting and walking, and in defecation. It is sometimes removed on reducing the fractured and displaced fragments by pressiun through the rectum, but may continue for months, and even longer, constituting a truly nemalgic affection of the part. South relates the case of a gentleman who broke his coccyx by sitting on the edge of a snuff-box, and Avho suffered such severe pain that he Avas obliged to Avear a pad on each tuberosity of the ischium, in order that the coccyx might be in a kind of pit, and fr’ee from aU pressme Avhen he sat. Under the term Coccydynia, Sir J. Y. Simpson has described a pauifnl affection of the coccyx and its neighbouring structures, Avhich chiefly occiu’s in women, commonly as the result of injiuy, and is often very severe and per- sistent, so as to prevent the patient fr'om sitting, or even walking Avith comfort. It is an affection that closely resembles in its symptoms the pain occasioned by fissure or ulcer of the anus and rectum. It usually ai’ises fr’om a bloAV on the part, though it appears sometimes to originate independently of any external violence. The Treatment recommended by Sir J. Y. Simpson consists in the fr’ee subcutaneous dmsion, by means of a tenotome, of the muscular and ten- dinous structures connected Avith the coccyx. The section of these structures is made first on one side, then on the other, and finally around the tip, so as completely to isolate the bone. The good effects of the operation are usually immediate, the pain ceasing at once. Fractuees oe the Thigh-Boxe are of great practical interest, from tlieir fr-equency and severity. They may occur in the Upper Articular End of the bone, in its Shaft, or in its LoAver End. In these different situations, eieiy possible variety of fr’actiue is often met Avith. 1. Fractures of the Pelvic End of the Bone may be divided into those that occur tliroicgh the Neele Within the Caj)sule of the joint, those that occui Outside the Capsule, and those that implicate the Trochanters alone. Intracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-Bone may be eithei