dislocation on the thyroid E'ORAMEN. 503 tlie same time resting his feet on the patient’s pelvis, should then raise his shoulders and draw the bone towards its socket. Bi^^elow describes as allied to the sciatic dislocation (dislocation below me tcndoli), and constituting a stage of it, that displacement in which the head of the hone is thi-own downwards and outwards towards the tuberosity o± the ischium, lying on the posterior part of the body of that bone between the tuberosity and the spine, ihe head of the bone can be felt in this situation; and the limb is inverted (Fig. 230). Bigelow considers this as a first step towards luxation behind the tendon, which it tends to become when the patient is upright. 2. Dislocation Downwards.—Of this class of dis- locations, that on the Thyroid Foramen is the most frequent. In it, the hip is flattened, and the pro- minence of the trochanter completely absent, or indeed replaced by a depression. The hmb is lengthened by about two inches, advanced before the other, and con- p. siderably abducted (Fig. 231). The knee is bent and incapable of extension ; the foot usually points for- wards, but is sometimes shghtly everted, and is widely separated from its fellow. When the patient stands, the body is bent forwards in consequence of the tension of the psoas and iliacus muscles, and in a thin person the bone may be felt in its new situation. When he hes on his back, the knee is much raised and the thigh flexed. Causes.—This dislocation appears to be occasioned by the hmb being sud- denly and violently abducted, as by falls with the legs widely separated ; in 230.—Dislocation Down- wards and Outwards to- wards the Tuberosity below Tendon. (Bigelow.) Fig. 231.—Thyroid Dislocation. (Bigelow.) Fig. 232.—Reduction by Manipulation in Tliyroid. Dislocation. Rotation and Circumduction In- wards of Head of Femur. (Bigelow.) consequence of which the head of the bone is tilted against the iimer side of the capsule, and, rupturing this, is thrown into the thyroid notch.