141 CHAJRACTEBS OF PUS. 'WIicii examined under favom-able circumstances, they are seen to shoot out jjrojcctions, and to withdraw them ; and it has also been found that, like the- imiocba, they have the power of incoiporatiug into their substance matters, such as pigments, with which they come into contact. Be- sides these corjniscles, granular mat- ter, particles of fibrine, and disin- tegrated cells, arc usually foimd admixed in gi’eatcr or less amount. The greater the quantity of cox-puscles, the- richer and more creamy is the pus. lu many cases, however, the microscopical characters of pus differ from those that have just been given. Thus, in the thin, greasy, yellovish-looking pus,. ■pig. 71.—a. Healthy Pus-cells. 6. Treated with Acetic Acid. Magnified 800 Diameters. Fig. 72.—Pus-cells from Pyaimic Abscess. Fig. 73.—Pus-cells from Scrofulous Abscess. somewhat resembling melted butter, which we find in the joints in pymmia, the pus-coiqiuscles are irregular in outline, and not so distinctly nucleated (Fig. 72); and in some fonns of chronic abscess, when the pus is thin and cindy, the pus- corpuscles present a somewhat similar appearance, midergoing fatty degenera- tion fFig. 73). e. a d » Diagnosis. The diagnosis of pus is usually easy, but some fluids resemble pus so c osely to the naked eye, that the microscope is necessary to establish their characters. From healthij mucus there is no difficulty in distinguishiuo- pus , mt when mucus has been thickened and rendered opaque by inflamma- tion, and is mixed OTth exudation-celis, it is imi»saiblc, and can nerer be nccciMary to distingliish it from pus. TurKd serum, containing brokeii-domi an gianu ai filnine, fiequently met ivith in serous sacs, and softemd Jihrine, as m clots and inflamed vessels, are distinguished from pus by the absence of pus- cells. Atheroma is recognised by tlie presence of cholesterine-scales and tat, and by the non-existence of the characteristic pus-coi-puscle. In tulercle and cancer *^i -1^^ pus-cell, and the presence of appearances characteristic hlood establish the diagnosis. AVhen it is admixed with WoofZ the cte of pus IS often very difficult, and, indeed, cannot in many cases be satisfactorily accomplished, on account of the close resemblance between and , l ' ^ 1, ^ of ‘Ms "'ill be seen to be .emaller •Old elenrer, autb a more defined outline than those of pus.