920 I>JSEASJ<:S OF VEINS. "IT typogasfcrium, or thorax, may be affectccl. ^ The veins about the anus are especially liable to varix, constitutin<r some orms ot haemorrhoids; the spermatic veins, also, very often become enlai;g-ed, constituting varicocele. As a general rule, superficial varix is infinitely more common in the lower than in the upper part of the body oivine- evidently to the tendency to the gravitation of blood in the more dependent situations. ^ When occurring at any point above the pelvis, it may be looked upon as arising, in all probability, ft-om the pressm-e of a tumour of some kmd upon the large venous trunks. The deep-seated veins that are principally affected are, the internal jugulars, the vena azygos, and the veins of the prostate. Causes.—The causes of varix are generally swcA conditions as induce more or less permanent distension of the veins. Thus, for instance, strains, and habitual over-exertion of a^ part, by driving the blood into the subcutaneous veins, may give rise to their distension; so, also, certain occupations may favour gravitation of blood to the lower part of the body ; again, the length of a vein, as of the internal saphena, may occasion its dilatation by the weight of the long column of the contained blood. Any obstacle to the retm-n of the blood from a vein (as the pressure of a tight garter below the knee, or of a tumoui upon one of the large venous trunks) may give rise to its permanent distension, as well as to that of all its branches. In othei’ cases the affection, or the disposition to it, appears to be hereditary; and in many instances it is difficult to recognise any cause except an enfeebled and relaxed state of the walls of the vessel, such as is met with in tall, debilitated, and phlegmatic people. Age influences materially the occurrence of the disease, which, rare in the earlier periods of hfe, gradually increases in frequency as the individual advances in years up to the middle period of life Avhen the tendency ceases. In loomen, especially, the affection is common; in consequence, partly, of natural debihty, but more frequently from the pressme of the enlarged uterus during pregnancy. Steuctuke.—Varicose veins are sometimes simply dilated, without any thickening ; but in other instances they are truly hypertrophied, their cavities being dilated and their walls thickened—the vessel likewise being elongated, forming curves, and bending back on itself. Sometimes the enlargements at particular points appear to be multilocular, the vein forming a series of emwes and dilatations together. The valves are always insufficient in varicose veins, being usually bent backwards or ruptured ; and the lining membrane is marked by longitudinal strise. The blood in these vessels has a tendency to coagulate in large masses, the vein being at times the seat of inflammation, by which this tendency is materially assisted. The neighbouring and subjacent pai-ts are much modified in structure; and there is usually chronic oedema, with infiltration of the skin and areolar tissue, which may at last run into ulcera- tion—giving rise to the varicose ulcer, which has already been described (p. 170), and which, if communicating with a large branch, may yield a copious or even fatal hEemorrhage. The blood contained in the varicose knots and veins becomes more or less stagnant, and probably altered in its qualities, so as to render the vessels peculiarly liable to inflammation, and possibly even to injui’e the general health to a remarkable degree. Progeess.—Varicose veins never undergo spontaneous cure : Avhen once