AMPUTATION- AT THE HIP-JOINT. 105 Results.—The mortality after amputation at the liip-joint is necessarily ^•ery high. This we should natm-ally expect from the size of the part removed and the”consequent shock to the system. The rate of recovery varies gveatly according to the condition of the limb that necessitates the operation. Thus, amputation at the hip-joint has been performed, so far as I can ascertain fr’om published cases, 120 times up to the year 1804 ; of these 70 died. But in 47 instances it was for injury : of these 85 proved fatal ; whilst in 42 cases in which it was done for chronic disease, 24 recovered and only 18 died. Frimanj emputation at the hip-joint in cases of severe injury of the thigh, by gunshot or otherwise, with comminution of the femur, is one of the most fatal operations in siu’gery. In all the 12 cases in which, it was done in the Crimea it proved fatal; and Legouest has collected 30 cases of this amputation, for gimshot injmy, in all of which the operation terminated in death. Indeed, up to the time of the war of the rebellion in America, there was no authentic instance of recovery under these circumstances. But in an elaborate and most able surgical history of that great Avar, published by the Singeon-G-eueral, 11) cases of primary amputation at the hip-johit for gunshot injury of the femin are related. Of these 11 died from the immediate shock of the opera- tion ; 5 died betAveen the 2nd and the 10th day ; one, a man 28 years of age, Avho had amputation at the hip jierformed by Surgeon Shippen seven horns after the receipt of his AAnund, Avas in perfect health four years. after the operation ; and the remaming two cases had been cured, so that one was alfre and well tAVO, and the other six months, after the amputation. Intermediate operations, or those done dining the inflammatory period, are A'ciy inisuccessful: 18 cases that occurred in the American Avar were all fatal. Secondary emendation, in cases of attempted preserA^ation of the limb after seA'erc injuries and gunshot-wounds, has been far more successful. Four cases in which J. Boux practised it in the French campaign of 1859 in Italy all 3-ecoA*ered, as did tAvo out of nine in Avhich it Avas practised in America. Re-amputation cd the hip-joint for diseased thigh-stumps has also been a successful operation : 4 out of 7 American cases recovered. Amputcdion at the kip-joint for disease of the femur has undoubtedly become less fatal of late years than formerly. This is OAving to the operation being submitted to at an earlier stage of the disease ; to a better selection of cases; possibly to improAnd methods of after-treatment; but maiifly to the influence of anaesthetics, by which the shock to the system necessarily resulting from so A'ery seA'erc a mutilation is materially lessened. The employment of Lister’s aorta-compressor Avill probably still further leduce the mortality by lessening the loss of blood, and thus proportionately diminishing those risks of low secondary disease that are induced by serious haemoiThage. •