REMOTE EFFECTS OF INJURY. 183 TKAUMATIC DELIRIUM. Traumatic Delirium not unfrequcntly occurs in cases of severe injury in iiulivicluals witli an in-itablc ner^'ous system, particularly in those uiio have l)een chinking freely before the accident, or were intoxicated at the time when it occiuTed. It usually comes on about the thhcl or foimth day, but }iot un- frequently earlier than this ; and most commonly declares itself during the night. This disease presents two distinct types, which are, in fact, different diseases—the one inflammatory, the other irritative. In Inflammatory Traumatic Delirium there are a quick and bounding pulse, hot skin and head, flushed cheeks, glistem’ng eyes, much thirst, and high febrile action generally. The delirium is usually fimious ; the patient shout- ing, singing, tossing himself about the bed, and moving the injm-ed limb insensible to, or regardless of, pain. The Treatment of this form of the disease should be depletory. Bleeding fr'om the arm, with leeches and ice to the head, piu’ging and low diet, udll subdue it; but in many cases it is speedily fatal. Irritative or Nervous Traumatic Delirium usually occiu’S in persons of a broken constitution, and closely resembles ordinary dehrium tremens; sometimes it is preceded by a fit of an epileptiform character. In this form of the disease the pulse is quick, small, and initable ; the pupils dilated ; the siu'face cool; the coimteiiauce pale, mth an anxious haggard expression, and bedewed with a clammy sweat. The tongue is white, and there is sometimes tremor of it as weh as of the hands ; but this by no means invariably occiu’s. The delirium is usually of a muttering and suspecting character ; the patient is often hai-assed by spectral illusions, but vdll answer rationally when spoken to. This form of disease is sometimes very rapidly fatal. I have known it to destroy life in cases of simple fractine in less than twelve horns. The Treatment of irritative traumatic delirium consists essentially in the administration of opium until sleep is procured, pr the pupil becomes con- tracted. For this piu’pose large quantities are frequently required ; and the opiimi shoifld be given in full doses, two grains to begin "with, and repeated every second or third horn in grain doses. If there be much dejDi’ession, it mil usually be expedient to administer the opiate in porter, or in that stimulant to which the patient has habituated himself. The administration of the opiate should be preceded by a free pmge and an aperient enema, so that aU source of irritation may be removed from the intestinal canal. Hypodermic injections of morphia may be used advanta- geously in traumatic delirium, when the patient cannot or will not swallow. I he essential point is to set the brain at rest by sleep. A strait-waistcoat is commonly necessary iir all cases of trarrmatic delirirmr, in order to preverrt the patient from injrrriirg the rvounded part. After sleep has beeir induced, the quairtity of the opiate must be lesserred ; but it will bo fouird rrecessary to C'oiflinrre it for some time, as there will be a teirderrcy to the rccurrerrce of the delirium at night. Ihese two forms of traumatic delirirrm, the inflanrmatory arrd the irritative, ^ue often found more or less conjoined ; a modification of the treatmerrt thcri recomes rcqmsrtc,—the Rurgcoir depletiirg with one harrd, and allayino- irrita- tion by oprates and giving srrpport with the other.