629 TREATMENT OF WOUNDED LUNG. War in the Britislr amij, 120 died ; and iMouat and Wyatt state that, of 200 cases of penetrating- -\vonnds of the chest occurring in the Russian army at the siege of Sebastopol, and treated at Simpheropol, only 3 recovered. The Russian surgeons, however, do not bleed in these cases, but use digitalis instead. Chenu states that, in the French army in the Crimea, of aOS cases of pene- trating -wounds of the chest, 407 were fatal. Longmore remarks that the apparently great mortality in the Crimean returns Avas largely due to the proximity of the field-hospitals to the trenches, AA'here the patients Avere AA'ounded ; if they had been Avounded in the ordinary circumstances of a battle, mimy of them Avould iieA'cr have reached an hospital. The gi-eat danger and principal cause of death in these injiu-ies is unquestionably the haemor- rhage that ensues. This may prove immediately fatal if one of the larger pul- monai-y A'cssels be divided. As the bleeding is most abundant at and shortly after the receipt of the wound, Hennen states that, if the patient siu’A'iA'e the third day, great hopes may be entertained of his recoA'ery. After this period, the chief source of danger is the occiu-rence of inflammation of the lungs and pleiu-a, the extent and severity of which are greatly increased in gun-shot inj.iu’ies by the frequent lodgment of foreign bodies Avithin the chest. The inunediate cause of death at tliis stage is undoubtedly the accumulation of inflammatory dfnsion in the pleiu’al caAuty, as the direct consequence of the pleurisy dcA'eloped by the injiuy. This effusion is often very rapid, and may 231'ove fatal from the foiu’th to the eighth day. Emj)hysema is seldom a dangerous complication, though it may become so if very extensive and allowed to increase luichecked. If both limgs be wounded at the same time, the result is almost ineAutably fatal, either by the abundant hemorrhage suffocating or exhausting the patient, or else by induction of asphyxia in consequence of air being clraAvii into both the pleiu'al sacs, and thus, by comj)ressing the lungs, arresting res- jjiiation. This, however, does not necessarily result; and there are a suflicient numbei of cases on record of recoveries after stab or bullet Avounds traA'ersing both sides of the chest, to shoAV that collajAse of the lungs and consequent asphyxia does not necessarily result from this double injiu-y, which indeed has also been determined experimentally on animals by Cruveilhier. The Treatment of wounds of the chest, imj^licating the lungs, must have reference to A'arious sources of danger that have just been indicated. The Local Treatment is very simple. If the wound have been made by a u et, all foreign bodies that are Avithin reach should be extracted. If there c any difficidty in doing this, it may be necessary to enlarge the apertiu’c ; u t e Surgeon must^ not go too deo2>ly or perseA'eriiigly in search of them, es e excite more in-itation than the foreign body Avould. Light Avater-dress- mg should then be applied, no attempt being made to close the apertm-e, so a the escape of any extraneous substance that may haA’c been left or of extravasated blood, may not be interfered Avith. IftheAvoundbe a clean puncture, Avithout escape of air or much ha3mor- nhsSU u V^^rought together and closed by means of stitches, Enabled bleeding may be arrested, and the patient issuing fieely through it from the iiijiu-ed lung, it should