CHARACTERS OF TUBERCLE. of the eyelids may be permanently congested and irritated, with loss of lashes, Instituting the dilfeient forms of psorophthahnia. The mucous membrane liiiiiar the nostrils becomes cln-onically congested, red, and siiollen, to hid)itual snilHng of the nose, and to a sensation as of a constant cold. Ucca- sionally that lining the antrum becomes irritated, and may then occasion an cnlaro-ement of this cavity, or the discharge of unhealthy pus into the nostri s. The tonsils are often found chronically enlarged and indurated, with occasional tendency to fresh inflammation ; and the larynx may become the seat ot various forms of congestion of its lining membrane, giving rise to aphonia The state of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane has already been described when speaking of the state of the tongue ; and that of the genito-m-inary or«-ans is also marked by a tendency to debility and irritation, indicated by discharges from the lu-cthra induced by very slight exciting causes, and often ■\-ery permanent. The occurrence of calculus of the bladder, especially in children, may also occasionally be attributed to the scrofulous diathesis. Perhaps the most important local diseases arising under the influence of tliis agency, arc those of the Bones and Joints. The bones are liable to the occur- rence of vaiious forms of caries and necrosis (Fig. 317) ; more especially those bones that are spongy in their texture, as the short bones of the foot, and the articiflar ends of long bones. The joints are liable to that large class of affec- tions that are commonly included under the term of white sivelhnc), which consists of thickening, disorganisation, ulceration, and suppiuation of the synovial membranes and cartilages. Lastly, some of the Glandular Organs are pecidiai-ly prone to scrofulous disease. Enlargement of the lymphatic glands, more particularly by the side of the neck and under the angles of the jaw, is of such frequent occurrence, and is usually so early a sign, that the Surgeon, in determining whether an individual is scrofulous or not, commonly passes his hand over the glands in this situation in order to ascertain their condition and size ; these glandular enlargements are especially apt to rmi into unhealthy and chronic suppuration. The testes and the mammte are occasionally afiected ; hut other glandular structures, though sometimes implicated, are by no means so cominoidy found diseased as those that have just been mentioned. Tubercle.—The occmrence of tubercle indicates a far greater departure from the normal nutrition of the part than is required for the production of scrofula. The typical constitutional temperament is that described at page 321 as the first scrofulous variety, but every degree will be found to exist between this and the coarser form. Tubercle more frequently affects the serous membranes and the internal organs, especially the areolar tissue entering into their structmu, than scrofula does ; whilst the skin and mucous memlu’anes, which are commonly attacked by the latter, are rarely primarily invaded by the former. Tubercle, though sufficiently well marked by its appearances and progress, cannot be looked upon as a specific affection, but must be considered to be a perverted or unhealthy development of the nutritive materials destined for the repair of the body and the restoration of the blood. According to Simon, it consists of a disease of the lymph, or nascent blood. It is a “ dead concre- tion,” a fibriniform product; insusceptible of development. “ The scrofulous