PY.EMIA IN INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 527 further, that in all probability its seat will correspond to these changes m the scalp and licricraninm, which are due to the bone having lost its vitality by being separated from the dura mater by the subjacent abscess. In many cases, doubtless, this progi-ession of constitutional symptoms, I accompanied by the two local signs just mentioned, has attbrded proof of the existence of intracranial suppuration. It but seldom happens, however, that i the signs attending the formation of pus mthiii the skidl occim in the distinct order and Avith the degree of precision above stated. In the great majority of i cases, the Surgeon can only suspect the presence of pus from the symptoms of inflanmiation terminating in paralysis or coma. But he cannot say with certainty that pus has formed, for the coma may arise from the pressure of other effusions : but if the pufly swelling of the scalp or the separation of the pericranium occur, Avith exposure of dry and yelloAV bone, Avith hemiplegia on the opposite side, then he may feel himself justified in giving a more positive opinion as to its existence in some situation Anthin the cranial cavity, probably beneath or in the immediate neighbourhood of the part thus affected. Pyemia, vrith its characteristic visceral secondary abscesses, is by no means an unfrequent complication of injuries of the head. It may occur as a conse- quence of any lesion of the scalp, skull, or brain, in which the patient survives sufficiently long for the develojiment of the characteristic phenomena of this disease. Hence it is chiefly after the slighter forms of cerebral injury that pyaemia and secondary abscesses haA^e been met with ; occasionally after woimds of the scalp, rarely after those of the brain or its membranes, but more commonly and not unfi’equently after injiuy of the skidl, more esj)ecially after severe contusion of the bone Avithout fracture. The sequence of pathological phenomena in these cases is the same that is observed in all in Avhich pyaemia foUoAVS injury or wound of the osseous struc- tures. The part of the bone that is struck usually necroses ; inflammation and suppuration are set up in the siuTounding portions of the skull; the cancelli of the diploe become filled Avith pus ; its A-ems, which are large and sinuous, inflame, and become the media of transmitting septic material to the general cir- culation ; the ordinary constitutional symptoms of pyiemia develop themselves, and secondaiy abscesses eventually form in the lungs, liver, and joints, with lowly organised plastic effusions into the serous cavities, more particidarly those of the pleura and pericardimn. The older AATiters on Siu'gery had noted and had maiwelled at the strange phenomena of hepatic abscess folloAving slight head- injuries, and had generally overlooked the occurrence of secondary deposits in other organs and stnictm'es. More modem iiiA'estigation has shoAvn that these abscesses are pyrnmic, that they are a part of a general piu’ulent infection of the system, and that they almost invariably are aecompanied by pulmonaiy abscesses : indeed, it is these and not the hepatic that are the common conse- quences of pyaemia resulting from cerebral injury. Of eighteen cases, P. HeAA'ett found the lungs studded AAith abscesses in thirteen, and the lii’er in three • and of those three, in one case only was the liver alone affected. It has been supposed by some that intracranial siqipuration is a necessary iirecursor of these secondaiy abscesses : that it frequently co-exists is undoubted—avc often meet with pus in these cases betAveen the dura mater and the contused bone • but to suppose that it is a necessary concomitant, is an eiTor. I have seen