448 SPECIAL FRACTURES. practised it; for altliougli the tendon was exceedingly tense, only temporary beTiefit resnlted, the displacement returning under the influence of the other muscles inserted into the foot. In these cases the bones may usually be brought into excellent position by flexing the thigh well upon the abdomen, and the leg upon the thigh, so that the heel nearly touches the nates, and then laying the limb on its outer side on a Avooden leg-splint, provided with a proper Kg. 197.—Salter’s Swing-box for Fractured Leg. foot-piece, and keeping it fixed in this position. In some cases the swing-box (Fig. 197) will be foiuid an useful and very easy apparatus. In some fractm’es of the leg, the lower end of the upper fragment projects considerably, and can- not be brought into proper position so long as the knee is kept bent; but if it be extended, so as to relax the extensors of the thigh, the bone is readily brought into good position. In fractm-es of the leg, as in aU injmies of a similar kind, no one plan of treatment should be adopted exclusively, but the means employed should be varied and suited according to the peculiarities of each individual case. In the management of all fractm-es of the tibia, the foot should be carefuUy kept as nearly as possible at right angles to the leg. If it be allowed to di-op, so that the toes point, there wiU be a tendency for the astragalus to shp for- Avards from under the malleolar arch ; the ankle-joint being thus permanently weakened by the elongation of its anterior ligament. Should a traumatic aneurism form in the leg, as a consequence of injm-y of the posterior tibial artery, compression of the superficial femoral in Scarpa’s triano'le, Avith pressime by pad and bandage over the pulsating sweUing, may succeed. If not, the artery may be hgatm-ed in Scarpa’s triangle Avith good results. Two cases of this kind are recorded, one in the practice of Dupuytren, the other in that of Delpech. For the treatment of other Complications of simple Fracture of the Leg, see pp. 874, et seq. Compound Fractures of the Tibia are of more frequent occurrence than similar.injmies of any other bone in the body. This is omng to the thin covering of soft parts OA'er the anterior and miier aspect of the bone, and to the fact of its fracture being usually oblique ; so that the sharply pointed end