amputations. 46 mid fclic ivcio'lit of the Ijcdclothes taken off by a cradle. After this, it should he disturbed as little as possible for a feiy days. The carbolised lint, which n ill become soiled by a reddened sero-sanguinolent discharge, must be changed e^ ciy lew hoiu’s. Should the flaps be muscular and heavy, the stimip may advantageously be supported on a well-padded wire splint. Union by the first intention ” can only be expected to take place in certain amputations, and even in them not wholly and entirely. When the hone is ^•ery large, as the femur, an angle is apt to be left between the flaps at the apex of the stmnp, Avhich, by preA'enting complete coaptation at this point, renders direct union impossible ; so also, if a cavity exist in the bone, as the glenoid or cotyloid, in amputation at the shoulder and hip, there vill necessarily he suppuration. Then, again, muscle will not adhere directly to synovial mem- brane or to cartilage in disarticulations, and in many cases not even to the cut smfacc of bone. In fact, for all these reasons, independently of any consti- tutional causes, complete inimary union, or that by the “ first intention,” is much more rare than is commonly supposed, and is more frequently talked about than seen in amputations. However, whatever portion of the stump unites directly and primarily is so much gained, and no effort should be left untried to secure so desirable a result. When suppuration sets in, warm-water dressings should be substituted for the cold lint, and every possible attention should he paid to cleanliness by a frequent change of the dressings, more especially in waim weather. When suppuration is subsiding, and cicatrisation going on, the bandage may advantageously be brought over the face of the stump. As a general nde, it will be found that a naiTow roller will adapt itself better than a hroad one. After cicatrisation is completed, the patient should be allowed to go about oii crutches, but must not wear an artificial limb for several months, luitil the- parts have become finnly consolidated ; during the whole of this time the- stump should be kept carefully bandaged, and not exposed to injuiy. SiMULTAlfEOUS OE EaPIDLY CONSECUTIVE AMPUTATION OP TwO LiMBS,. requiriug removal for severe injury or for gangrene, has occasionally been successfully practised, either by two Surgeons perfoiming the two amputations at the same time ; or by the same Sm-geon doing first one and then the other,, the vessels of the first limb being secured by an assistant whilst the second limb is being removed. The circulation through both lower extremities may be completely arrested by compressing the aorta by means of Lister’s tourniquet. By means of this valuable instrument, I have amputated both thighs in close- succession vdthout waiting for the ligature of the arteries iii that which was first removed. The object in two simultaneous amputations is to lessen the- contiuuance of shock to the system, by throwing, as it were, that of the two operations into one. In doing this, however, the Surgeon must necessarily be- guided by the circumstances of the case. If the patient were very gveatly depressed, the infliction of so severe an injmy as a double amputation might probably extinguish life at once ; and, if it were possible to wait after the removal of the first limb, until the shock of the operation had passed oft; before the second was amputated, it might be desirable to do so ; but if the- patieut were not too much depressed, the simultaneous or rather rapidly consecutive double amputation would probably be the safer coiu’se.