WOUNDS OF THE TlIROuiT. 605 size and directly communicating Avith the cerebral sinuses, but the special danger of the introduction of air into it; should these evils be safely got over, the secondary ones of recurrent hiemorrhage, diffuse inflammation, and pytemia, may yet have to be encountered. The ligature of the vessel above and below the Avound in it, exactly as if it Averc an artery that had been opened, is Uie only coui'se that can be safely pursued. In one case in AAhich this aaus being done, I saAV and heard air enter the vein as it was being raised for the passage of the ligature, but the patient made a quick recovery. The large nerves, such as the A-agus and phrenic, can scarcely, in a suicidal Avound, be divided without injury to the neighbouring vessels, but they maybe iujiu-cd by stabs or gun-shot Avouuds. The division, however, of the respiratory nerA-es on one side only, or even of one of them, Avould in all probability be Altai ill man, by interfering AAuth the proper performance of the respiratory act. In a case Avith which I am acquainted, AA^here the phrenic neri'e Avas diAided during ligature of the subclaAdan artery, death resulted in a feiA”^ days from congestion of the lungs. In the Treatment of Avounds of the neck of this categoiy, the principal points to be attended to ai'e, hi the first place, the aiTest of hmmorrhage by the ligature of all bleedhig vessels, whether arterial or A'enous ; and, secondly, bringing together the lips of the wound. If the cut be longitudinal, this may be done by strips of plaster ; if transverse, by a few points of sutme and by position, the head being fixed, with the chin almost touching the sternum, and retained hi this postine by tapes passing fr’om the nightcap to a piece of bandage fixed round the chest. I have had under my care one case in Avhich, OAving to the projection and mobility of the larynx, the wound did not unite, a large and deep gap being left, which required a series of plastic operations in order to efiect its closure. 2. Wounds implicating the Air-passage.—The air-passage is commonly wounded in suicidal attempts. It may be known to be opened by the air being heard and seen to bubble in and out of the wound during resphation. These M'ounds vary much in extent, fr'om a small puncture with the point of a penknife to a cut extending completely across the throat, and even notching the vertebrm. They are frequently complicated Avith injuries of the larger Aussels and nerves, and sometimes Avith wound of the oesophagus. Most commonly the cut is made high up in the neck ; for the suicide, thinking that it is the opening into the air-passage that destroys life, diviAvs the razor across that part of the throat AAhere this is most prominent and easily reached ; and thus, by not wounding the larger vessels, which are saved by the projection of the larynx, frequently fails in accomplishing his object. These wounds occur in four situations : above the Hyoid Bone ; in the Thyro-hyoid Space ; through the Larynx ; and through the Trachea. The wound may be made above the Hyoid Bone; the cut extending into the mouth and Avounding the root of the tongue. A AA'ouud in this situation is usually attended with much hasmonhage ; and there is great trouble in feediim- the patient, as the poAver of SAvalloAvdng is completely lost. The wound may be inflicted in the Thyro-hyoid Space, laying the pharynx open, but being altogether above the larynx. This is the most common situation or suicidal attempts. In many cases, the incision is cai-ried so low as to shave