lor AMPUTATION AT THE JlIF-JOINT. i across the joint; its point being made to issue just in front of the tuberosity This is a most iiivalaablo instrument, completely restraining the circulation through the lower extremities, depriving this operation of its great clanger- undue loss of blood, and enabling the Singeon to complete it ivithout hurry or anxiety on this account. It should be applied a little aliovc and to the left of the lunbihcus. The Singeon must have tlnee assistants on whom he can fully rely. Assistant No. 1 takes chaige of the flap, compressing the femoral vessels ; and, in the absence of the ab- I dominal compressor, on his trustworthi- ness the patient’s life is mainly de- jiendent. Assistant No. 2 takes charge of the hmb ; flexing it slightly on the abdomen in the first stage of the opera- I tion, whilst the anterior flap is being ! made ; forcibly abducting and bending i;‘ it backwinds during the second stage, when the Singeon is opening the capsule || of the j ouit and making the posterior flap. I; On the way in which he performs these duties, the facihty -with which the i Singeon performs the operation is mainly dependent. To Assistant No. 3 is i ■consignccl the care of the compressor of the abdominal aorta. After the i removal of the limb. Assistant No. 2 aids the Surgeon in ligaturing the ,j arteries. These prehminaries having been arranged, and the duty of each |! assistant assigned to, and distinctly understood by him, the operation is to be ; performed in the foUoiving way. The Surgeon, standing on the left side of the limb to be removed, feels for ' the bony points which guide his knife, idz., the tuber ischii and the anterior ' superior spine of the diiim. The knife, which must have a blade twelve ' inches long, requires to be entered, and the flap to be made, in different ways, according to the side of the body on which the operation is performed. If it ! be on the left side, the knife should be entered about two fingers’ breadth ' below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, or midway between it and the j trochanter major, and cairied deeply in the limb behincl the vessels, directly ' of the ischium or immediately behind the prominent ridge formed by the tendon of the adductor longus (Fig. GG). In transfixing on this side, care must bo taken not to wound the scrotum or the opposite tliigh ; the back of ,the knife must run parallel to, but not against the pelvis, and the point must not be held too high, lest it enter the obtiuator foramen. The anterior flap must then be rapidly cut downivards and forwards, about six inches in length. The limb, which has, during this stage of the operation, been raised and slightly flexed upon the abdomen, must now be forcibly, abducted and everted ; the capsule of the joint is then to be opened by a firm cut with the point of the knife. So soon as this is done, the head of the femur must be pushed up by forcibly depressing and abducting the limb, so that it may start out of the acetabulum (Fig. G8); the heel of the knife is then passed behind it, the remainder of the capsule cut across, and the posterior flap rapidly fashioned by Fig. 65.—Lister’s Aorta Compressor apiilied.