277 SURGICAL TREATMENT. small, little more than a puncture, closure may possibly take place simply by its cicatrisation. The plastic matter forming the cicatrix is thrown out by the external coat of the artery. The internal and middle coats do not unite strongly, the apertiu-e in them being merely filled up by a plug of lymph ; hence the artery always continues weak at this point, and may eventually become aneiu-ismal. If an artery of the second or third magnitude, as the axillary or femoral, be di\-ided to one-foiu'th or more of its circumference, either fatal hmmorrhage or the formation of a traimiatic aueiu’ism will take place, according to the size and more or less direct character of the external Avouud. In those compara- tively rare cases, however, in which the heemoiThage is arrested without these consequences ensuing, it will be found that it is so, by the vessel becoming obliterated by a plug of lymph, Avhich is poiu’ed out at the wounded part and gradually encroaches on the cavity of the artery, until complete obliteration is produced, and the vessel at the seat of obstruction becomes converted into a fibro-cellular cord. SURaiCAL TREATMENT OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. The object of the Siu’geon, in any means that he may adopt for the suj)pres- sion of arterial htemoiThage, should be to imitate, hasten, or assist the natural processes, or to excite analogous ones. All his means act by one or other of the following methods :—1. By increasing the Retraction and Contraction of the arterial coats; 2. By forming an Artificial Coaguliun ; 3. By exciting Adhesive Exudation in and around the Vessel. The danger from arterial htemorrhage, and the measru’es that must be adopted to meet it, vary according to the size of the vessel. In all circumstances the Surgeon should bear in mind the excellent advice given by Guthrie, never to fear bleeding from any artery on which he can lay his finger, digital pressui’e readily controUing the blee^ng from the largest vessels, provided it can be fairly applied ; or the cut end of the artery may be seized between the finger and thumb. Thus, in amputation at the hip and shoulder-joints, the assistant readily controls the rush of blood from the femoral and axiUary arteries by paspmg- them between his fingers. Above all, the Surgeon should never dread femon age, nor lose his presence of mind when it occiu’s. If recourse be had to proper means, it can always be at least temporarily arrested. And on no accomit shoidd any one who pretends to the character of a Simgeon emnloy inefficient means to stop it, and imagine that he can, by covering up the wound vith rags, handkerchiefs, &c., prevent the escape of blood. These procedui-es only hide the loss that is going on, and, by increasing the warmth of the parts pi even e contraction of the vessels, and fa's’our the continuance of the bleed- iiig. n ei all circumstances, therefore, bleeding wounds should be opened up, e coagula gently removed ft-om their surface by means of a piece of soft sponge or a stream of cold water, and the part well cleaned. In this wav you 00' yoiu- enemy in the face,” and can adopt efficient means for the pemanent araest of the ha^moiThage. The flow of blood through a limb may bo controlled for a fruinoiwv/mumose by'C dasl^brnd^ compression by the hand- y astic band—or by the tounnquet. The compression of the main artery