■,G() lOVAL-GELLED SARCOMA. ^■hen affecting bone, must not be confounded with the myeloid, which they closely resemble. Large spindle-celled sarcomata also grow from fascim and intermuscular spaces, and not unfrecpiently from glands, especially the mamma, and they may be found in rare cases in almost any situation. They very otteii run a malignant course, ginng rise to secondary deposits in internal organs. Their tendency to local recurrence after removal is very great. In some cases the structm-e may somewhat change with repeated recurrences, the later growths always showing signs of more active development and deviating more and more from the normal type of spindle-celled growth, such as is found in the fibroid tissue of cicatrices. This is clearly shovm by a case which occurred under my cai-e at University College Hospital. A tumour as large as a fuU-sized turnip was removed from the shoulder of a middle-aged man, and was found to be slightly connected with the spine of the scapula. On examination, it presented all the characters of a spindle-celled sarcoma, consisting almost entirely of densely packed fusiform cells, with oval or oat-shaped nuclei. A small mass reappeared before the wound had completely healed, and on examination pre- sented a much lai’ger proportion of oval cells and spindle-ceUs, now having double nuclei. It recurred a second time, and now but few Avell-formed spindle-ceUs were found, but the tmnour was chiefly composed of oval and flask-shaped cells, or rather masses of protoplasm, in which numerous nuclei wei’e imbedded. A portion of the spine of the scapula, which was removed with the tumour, showed that the growth had sprung from the cancellous tissue of the bone. From what has been said above, it will be seen that the spindle-celled sarcomata form a very large and important gvoup of tumours, varying greatly in clinical characters and structiu’e, but all resembling each other in the hroad featine of the spindle-cell forming the predominant element. As to their iJrognosis, it may be broadly stated that the more they approach the structiu’e of the spindle-celled growth found in cicatrising wounds, the less likely they are to give rise to general infection of the system ; but that even the simplest may recur locally after removal, and consequently too guarded a prognosis cannot be given in such cases. Oval-celled Sarcoma may be looked upon as merely an extremely rapidly growing and malignant spindle-celled tumour. Thus we saw in the case j ust mentioned, that, as the rapidity of the growth inercased vdth each recm-rence, the spindle-cells became replaced by large oval cells with two or more nuclei. Sarcomata may occiu’ primarily, presenting similar fcatiu’es. They are soft, rapidly growing, and rarely completely circumscribed. They are of a delicate pinkish colour, and yield an abundant slimy albuminous fluid on section. I have twice had occasion to remove such growths from the neigh- bourhood of the mamma. In one case it recurred locally after the wound had healed, and in a short time formed an enormous tumour, larger than the patient’s head. She refused a second operation, and the case soon terminated fatally. In the other, although a large portion of the pectoral muscle was VOL. I. 3 D 29-1. —Oval-celled Sarcoma (1S8 iliam.)