404 SPECIAL FRACTURES. sometimes the bone is merely bent, or is fractured on one side only. The injury is usually occasioned by Mling out of bed. Such accidents are fre- quently overlooked by careless nurses ; but, the child crying whenever the arm is moved, attention is directed to the part, and the Surgeon then finds some deformity, with a node-like swelling above the middle of the bone. Both cla\dcles are occasionally, though rarely, fr-actured. In one such case, which was under my care at University College Hospital, the patient, a young man of 20, had sustained this injury, and had twelve ribs broken as well, in a railway accident. Notwithstanding this serious complication, he made an excellent recovery. Complications.—In simple oblique fr’actime of the clavicle, there is rarely any complication of importance. But when the fractoe is the result of direct violence, the same force that breaks the bone may seriously injure subjacent parts of importance. The subclavian vein may be compressed or wounded, or the brachial plexus of nerves may be compressed or tom. The first rib may be broken by the crushing violence, and the plem-a woimded. The clavicle may be fr-actured at any point between the ligaments at its acromial and sternal ends. 1. Most fr-equently the Great Convexity is broken ; the bone bending here when pressed upon fr-om its extremity, the curve becoming increased, and at last giving way. This fractiu-e may arise from direct violence, but usually is the result of falls on the hand or shoulder. 2. It may be fr-actm-ed nearer the acromion, between the two Coraco-cla-vi- cnlar Ligaments. 3. Its Tip may be broken off externally to the outei-most point of insertion of the trapezoid ligament, between it and the acromion. These latter two fr-actures can scarcely occiu* from indirect, but are almost always the result of direct violence. 4. The clavicle may be broken internally, that is, to the Sternal Side of the Rhomboid Ligament, usuaUy about three quarters of an inch from its sternal articulation. This injiu-y is of very rai-e occm-reuce. R. W. Smith, although admitting its possibility, states that there is no actual proof fr-om dissection of its having occiu-red. The Signs wiU depend upon the seat of fractiu-e. A¥hen the bone is broken letiveen ilie conoid and tra'pezoid ligaments, there is little, if any, displacernent, but pain on pressiu-e, some crepitus on moving the shoulder, and shght irre- gularity in running the finger along the bone, are usually present. When the fractm-e is external to the trapezoid ligaments, there is a remarkably obhque displacement of the scapular fr-agment, the articular surface of w^hich is tiu’ued forwards and inwards, with a shght inclination downwards, nearly at right angles to the rest of the bone, apparently by the dragging of the weight of the shoulder, the point of which, with the scapula, is rounded for- wards (Fig. 157). When the fr-actiu-c occiu-s aloitt the middle of the lone, or at any part on the sternal side of the scapular ligaments, there is a remai-kablc deo'ree of deformity, owing to a triple displacement of the inner end of the outer fr-agment inwards, downwards, backwards, while the outer end is rotated forwards. is isj Fig. 156.—Sound Clavicle. Fig. 157.—Fi-acture of Clavicle, outside of Trapezoid Liga- ment.