87 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. The Subastragaloid Amputation is another mode of disarticulating the foot. In it the heel-flap is made as in Symo’s operation, and, the articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid being opened (the aukle-]Oint lett intactj, the bistoury is passed under the astragalus, between it and the calcauemn, which together with the rest of the foot is removed. In this amputation a good, long, useful stump results ; but the cases requiring it must be tew as it does not often happen that there is disease of the calcaneum toge ei with the anterior range of tarsal bones, without the astragalus also being involved. . . In cases of caries of the tai-sus requiring amputation, it occasionally hap- pens that the Surgeon cannot determine with certainty whether the morbid action is limited to the anterior range ot tarsal bones, or extends so fai back- wards as seriously to implicate the astragalus and calcaneum ; and he is consequently unable to decide whether the condition of the foot admits^ ot removal by Chopart’s operation, or requires disarticulation at the ankle-joint. In these circumstances all doubt will be cleared, and the proper operation per- formed, by making an incision across the dorsum of the foot in the hue of the iistragalo-scaphoid and calcanco-cuboid articidatioiis ; these are then opened, and the state of the bones is examined. If the astragalus and calcaneum be .sound, or but slightly diseased on their anterior aspect, Chopart’s operation may be done, and any carious bone left behind gouged away. It^ on the con- trary, these bones be found to be deeply implicated, the flap may be dissected back for about an inch, and disarticulation at the ankle-joint proceeded with. It may also be well to bear in mind that the tarsal articulations may have become so ankylosed, as the result of old disease, as to require the application of the saw, instead of opening the joints by the knife. Results.—The amputation of a toe, of a metatarsal bone, or even of a portion of the metatarsus, is but very seldom attended by fatal consequences. Should death occiu, it must be the result of an accidental attack of tetanus, erysipelas, or of pyaemia. Disarticulation at the ankle-joint, though neces- sarily somewhat more dangerous, is yet one of the most successful operations in Siugery, the mortality attending it being but very small. Ajiputatiox of the Leg- may be performed in three situations: either just below the knee, in the middle, or in the lower third of the limb. The selection of the line of amputation must depend in a great degree upon the extent of the disease or injury, but, whenever practicable, the operation should be performed low down ; the mortahty diminishing in proportion as the limb is'removed neai- to the ankle. Of 100 amputations in this situation done in Paris, there were only 13 deaths. Siugeoiis used formerly, even where the disease or injury Avas limited to the foot, to amputate immediately below the knee, in all those cases in Avhich the patient Avould be obliged to wear a com- mon Avooden pin, the long leg-stimip being highly inconvenient when the patient rested on his bent knee ; Avhereas, in those individuals Avho could afford the expense of a Avell-constructcd artificial limb, the amputation, Avhen inacticable, Avas done in the loAver part of the log. But this difficulty has been remoA’cd by the introduction of a short Avooden pin, iu the socket of AAhich the stump may be fixed in the extended position; and amputation in all admissible cases should consequently, even amongst the poorer classes, be