^54 VEXEUEAL DISEASES. organised Ijmph in A'arious tissues and organs, as tlie periosteum, the iris, testes, &c. ^ The period at -which sypliilitic eruptions appear usually varies from six ■weeks to SIX months alter the formation of the indurated sore. Occasionally secondary syphilis shows itself earlier, about the second or third -week, Avheu it may be coincident with the existence of primary syidiilis. Most commonly its symptoms are progressive—the milder, such as the affections of the skin and mucous membrane, occiUTing fii'st ; the more severe, as those of the bones and internal organs, afterwards : but in other cases this progression is not observed, symptoms of great intensity setting in early, without being preceded by those of a slighter kind. It is extremely difficult to say Avhen syphihs can be eradicated from the system ; and indeed it is a cpiestion whether it may not impress the constitu- tion in a peculiar way, modifying certain actions during the rest of life, as we know to be the case in other specific diseases, such as cow-pox or scarlet-fever. Certain it is that, if neglected or improperly treated, it wiU affect the system lor an indefinite time, declaring its existence by exciting and inodifying various local inflammations years after the original absorption of the poison. It is tolerably clear that a person Avho has once had the usual coiu’se of syphilis and has recovered from this malady, cannot have it a second time, though he con- ti’act a fresh chancre. This rule is from time to time proved to be generally true by the occasional obseiwation of undoubted exceptions, where repetition of the disease from re-inoculation of the -virus takes place. But such cases are exceedingly rare, and occur only after an interval of some yeai’s has elapsed between the two attacks. Hutchinson has related a very interesting example of this kind in a medical student, who also suffered from two attacks of small- pox. Daily experience shows that in many constitutions syphilis cannot be eradi- cated, and that in most others, when once it has occiu-red, it is apt, even when apparently cured, to modify certain cutaneous and other affections in a remark- able mamier, after a lapse of many years ; sho-wing clearly that, if the poison no longer exist in the system, the constitution has received a peculiar impress from it, which it is long in losing. E. Wilson attributes many of the ordinary non-specific cutaneous diseases to the latent influence of constitutional syphilis. These remote effects of syphilis have by Eicord been called Tcriiury. Tliis term is convenient, as indicating a j)eculiar stage of the constitutional manifes- tations, in which the tissues are more deeply affected than in the secondary forms of the disease. There is no distinct line of demarcation between secondary and tertiary syiihilis. It is impossible to say Avhen the disease ceases to be secondary and begins to be tertiary. The extremes of each stage are distinctly recognisable as belonging to one or the other group. Thus the rashes are undoubtedly secondary—the gummata as certainly tertiary; but the allocation of marry of the irrtermediate corrditions is iU-defirred. It is a remarkable fact, rroted by Ijarrce- rearrx, Berkeley Hill, and Wilks, that the severity of the tertiary phenomena is irrthe inverse ratio of that of the secorrdary. This fact is particrrlarly rroticeablc iir tertiary syphiloma of the rrervorrs system; arrd what is also remarkable is this, that marry of the more chrorric arrd severe cases of tertiary syphilis arc the resrrlt of but slight primary sores ; arrd although it would rrot be possible