ORIGIN OF CANCER. 793 phenomena of tho disease. But it is a doubt uitli many, if it be competent to These nvo—1. The almost absolute certainty ol the speedy leeraTCn disease after the removal of the primary ^'owth ; •> The freauent hereditariness of the disease; nnrl ,7 The Sng degrees of rapidity with which cancei-s rim their ooume and the dinLiit degrees of iHrillence they affect in different individuals ; and ■f The o-eoo’raphical distribution of cancer. . , , r r mi hi Let us briefly Lamine those conditions, which have mainly been rehed on support of its constitutional origin. fniiv 1. As to the Kahm,/ to recurrence after removal as will ^ stated when we come to speak of the operation for cancer, no doubt. But in truth this argument can have but little wei^^ht M-e consider the rapid tendency to diffusion that has just ^ characterising cancers above all other tnmoiu’S, oinng o e c enveloping capsule. The fact is, that the cancer-cells have already becon diffused through the neighbouring structures, and they may hai’e entered the lymphatics or the blood long before the prime j tiimoin’ has attained such a size as to attract attention or to renc er opera lo ^ If it be admitted that a cancer may commence this process of diffiision, of self-multiplication, at any period after its first formation as a distinct tumoim or gi’owth, it is impossible to deny that the recimrence of the disease^ after operation, whether local in the neighbouring areolar tissue, more distant in e lymphatic glands, or, further still in the viscera, may be due to the early spread of migratory cells, each of which has become the centre of a new recurrent growth. It would be too late to uproot the oak after the acorns had been Avidely scattered abroad. One main soince of confusion, if not of error, in respect to the origin of cancer has been, that it has usually been studied in organs, such as the mamma, in which its early origin cannot be discovered. In such a situation a tiimom’ must attain the size of a nut, at the least, before it is diagnosed or even detected. Hmv many months or ei^eii years may it liaA’e required for the first cell—not a 1,000th of an inch in diameter—to have led to the deA'elopment of such a mass as this, and how Avidely the local contamination and general infection may have spread, before such a size eimn as this is attained by the primary tumour. The rapidity with Avhich a purely local condition may infect the constitution is Avell illustrated in the case of a chancre. If once an indurated chancre has formed, the removal of the sore by excision would not save the patient from constitutional contamination, Avhich begins to take place almost from the very first moment of the formation of the true chancre. The same is probably the case Avith a cancer, Avhich, Avhen once formed, then immediately commences the infecting process. In fact, the analogy betAveen the tAvo diseases is perfect.