788. TUMOURS. Menial Emotions ol a depressing cliaraeter, if long-continued or fTecpicntly repeated, may possibly predispose to the occurrence of cancer. I have seen so many cases of cancer, more particularly of the abdominal organs, in in- di^■iduals who ha^'o sulfered much from grief, anxiety, or harass of mind for years before the development of the malignant disease, that, although the doctrine is incapable of proof, I cannot but look upon it as probable, that the edneer was the result of the antecedent long-continued mental dis- quietude. We know, by cvery-day experience, that functional derangement of the abdominal and pelvic organs of the most inveterate character may be occasioned by mental disturbance ; and it appears to me not improbable, that such functional derangement may at last lead to perversion of nutri- tion, terminating in malignant deposits in such organs, as the uterus, the liver, or the stomach, as are more readily influenced by the condition of the patient’s mind. , Sex.—The influence of sex is well marked, not only in the absolute hequency of cancer, but in its occmrence in organs that are special to each sex. Cancer is absolutely far more frequently met with in women than in men, simply because cancers of the uterus and mamma constitute by far the largest proportion of these diseases, being infinitely more common than cancers of the male organs. But when we come to cancers of organs that are common to both sexes, as the eye, the tongue, the lip, the intestinal tract, &c., we shall, I think, find that they are more common in these situations in men than in women ; the difference, however, not being sufficient to counterbalance the preponderance in the female reproductive organs. The Exciting causes of ca^icer are of two kinds ; dhect external violence, or long-continued irritation of a part. A blow on, or other injmy of a part, often appears to be the direct deter- mining cause of the development of a primary cancer. Scirrhus of the mamma is commonly attributed by the suficrer to the infliction of an injmy. So in other situations. Thus Paget relates cases in which cancer has developed after the fractine of a bone at the seat of injury, and in the orbit after a blow on the eye. Long-continued irritation of a part may also develop cancer. This is a matter of every day obser\'ation in the development of cancer of the tongue from the persistent irritation of a broken or jagged tooth, or the production of cancer of the lip by the constant use of an unprotected clay-pipe. But, perhaps, the best marked instance of the production of this form of cancer, is that of the cancer of the scrotmn in chimney-sweeps, developed by the irritation of the soot lodged in the rugae—a form of disease which, as Be Morgan has pointed out, is fast disappearing with the cessation of the employment of climbing-boys, a strong argument in favour of the theory of the local origin of cancm-, that a form of the disease should cease to appear on the removal of the soince of local irritation that produced it. But local in-itation is more likely to produce cancer if it be applied to a part that has already been for some time the seat ol structural epithelial chanp. Thus a connnon wart, mole, or cicatrix is very apt to assume a cancerous action under the influence of persistent irritation. And, as J. Hutchinson has tru } observed, a cancer may in this way be “ grown.