943 NuEVOID LIPOMA. removed. This I did by applying the quadruple ligature, after having dissected the mucous membrane down. Naevi of the Vulva and Pudendum arc by no means unfrequent. Wo have had several instances of the kind in the Hospital of late years. They are usually venous, often attain a large size, and may sometimes involve the integumental structures on the inside of the thigh, or on the perinaeum, as well as the vulva. When the growth is confined to the vulva, it is best removed by the ligature. Some time ago, I removed in this Avay a large pendulous venous ua3A'us, as large as two or three flattened walnuts, from the left labium of a little girl six years of age. In this case, I found it most con- venient to employ the continuous ligature. The same means Avere had recourse to in order to extirpate a large nasvus from the labium of a child three years of age ; but in this case the disease extended to the integaiments of the peri- neeum and inner side of the thigh, and was here remoA’ed by the application of strong nitric acid, after the larger groAvth had separated. On the Extremities, Neck, and Trunk every possible variety of nmAUis occurs. IWien the disease is flat, consisting rather of staining of the skin than of any actual tumour, it may commonly be treated successfully by the applica- tion of the strong tincture of iodine ; or should it be thought desirable to- remove it, this may be effected by rubbing it Avith strong nitric acid. If the n£BA-us assume the form of a tumour, it wiU almost invariably be of a venous character, and then removal by means of the ligature should be effected. If the groAvth be round, the ordinary quadruple ligature may be employed: if flat or elongated, the longitudinal continuous Ligature is preferable. NiEVOiD LirOMA.—This is a form of nsevns Avith which I have occasionally met, but AAhich does not appear to have attracted much notice, although Hdlaton speaks of it, and Bilh'oth says that in lipoma he has several times seen cavernous dilatation of the veins. It is a tumour in which the n^evoid structure- is conjoined Avith or deposited in a cellulo-fatty mass. This disease is invariably seated upon the nates, back, or thigh. It occurs as a smooth, doughy, indolent tumour, incompressible, not varying in size or shape, Avithout heat, thiill, or pulsation of any kind, possibly having a few veins ramifying over its siufface, biit^ no distinot vaseular appearanee. It is usually congenital, or has been noticed in early childhood ; and it continues Avithout any very material change in shape, size, or appearance, until the inconvenience or deformity occasioned by it requires its removal. This is best effected by the knife. After removal, the tumour Avill be found to be composed of a cellulo-adipose basis, having'' a large number of veins ramifying through it, so as to constitute a distinct vascular element, communicating -with small cysts containing a bloody fluid. The tumour has occasionally a tendency to recur after remoA'al. In one case- I have operated three times for the removal of a large gi'OAvth of this descrip- ^on, situated on the buttock, and extending forward toAvards the perimeiun Ihe first operation was performed in 1851; the second in 1850 ; and the patient’ then eighteen years of age, again presented himself in 1863 with a recuiTenco of the growth in an ulcerated state, in the cicatrix of the former operations Ihe situation in Avhich I have seen such tiunours occur, where they o-ave rise to most inconvenience, and Avhere their removal has required the greatest care