4i8 SPECIAL FRACTURES. illusfci-fifcive of this injury, and all these, he says, are doubtful. In the cases in which this accident has been supposed to have occurred, the injury has arisen from falls on the palm of the hand, by which the ulna has been driven backwards, and the coronoid process, striking against the lower end of the Immerus, sph'ntered off. In a case related by Liston, the injury is said to have been produced by muscular action in a boy, who, hanging for a length of time by his hands from a high wall, fell to the ground, and was supposed to have met Avith this fracture. Whether the fracture actually occuiTcd is doubtful ,- and, if it did, it is still more doubtful whether it Avas occasioned by the con- traction of the brachialis anticus muscle, or by the violence of the fall. In the present uncertain state of oiu’ knowledge, I forbear to speak of the supposed symptoms of this accident. If it were suspected, the proper treat- ment Avonld consist in placing the limb in angular splints. 2. Fractures of the Middle of the Fore-arm are of very common occurrence, both bones being usually broken, Avith much shortening, angular' displacement, and crepitus. Occasionally one bone only is fractined, from the application of direct Auolence. "^^Tien this is the case, more attention will be' required in establishing the precise nature of the injury. The Treatment is simple ; a sphnt someAvhat broader than the arm shoidd be placed on each side of it, and a narrow pad laid along the interosseous space, in order that the patency of this may be preserA’ed ; no bandage shoidd be placed imder the splint. If masses of callus happen to be throAvn out across the interosseous space, pronation and supination of the hand will be lost, and the ntdity of the limb greatly impaired. Compound Fractures of the Fore-arm seldom give much trouble or- require amputation, but they very commonly lead to obliteration of the inter- osseous space, and thus impair the utility of the limb, by preventing pronation and supination. 3. Fractures of the Lower Extremity of the Radius, near the AVi'ist,. are A'ery frequent. Their importance, not only from a diagnostic point of Anew, but also in reference to treatment, has caused them to be carefully studied ;■ and their natiu-e and pathology have been specially investigated by Codes, Goyi-and, Voidermier, N^laton, E. W. Smith, and Gordon. The lower end of the radius is liable to several different kinds of fractoe. The more common of these is that which is generady caded “ CoUes’ Fracture,”' from the eminent Siu’geon Avho first fully described it. In this fi’actine the car- pal end of the radius is broken across, nsuady by a fad on the palm of the hand, the lower fragment being displaced backwards. Dr. Gordon, who has bestowed o-reat attention on the mechanism and treatment of this fr'acture, states that, in twenty-seven old specimens examined by him, the due of fracture posteriorly varied from f to If inch, and anteriorly fr-om f of an inch to trvo inches above the carpal border of the radius, being in ten of the cases one inch and under, in ten more than one inch but not over If inch, in the others rnrde- finable. The fracture is usually obdqrre fr-om before backwards. Besides Codes’, other fractures are met Avith in this situation. I hey are of three kinds ;• 1, Simple Transverse ; 2, Avith Comminution of the LoAver Fragment; and 3, with firm Impaction of the Upper into the LoAver Fragment. The S'hjns of fracture of the loAVcr cud of the radius vary greatly, according-