INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 634 by pressing tlio finger firmly on tlie part \\liere it appeared, when a depression was felt in the intercostal muscles, it the fingers were slid obliquely over the tumoin, it yielded a fine and distinct crepitation, exactly resembling that pro- duced by compressing a healthy lung, and the spongy tissue of the organ could be distinguished. On applying the ear, a fine crackling and rubbing sound was distinctly perceived ; the tumour Avas resonant on percussion. The portion of protruded lung did not appear to re-enter the chest on expiration, but Avas firmly fixed in its neAV situation. Is^o treatment was adopted in the case, nor does any appear admissible in similar instances. The only affection Avith Avhich a hernia of the lung can be confounded, is a circumscribed empyema AA^hich is making its Avay throAAgh the Avails of the chest. Here, hoAvever, the dulness on percussion, and the absence of respira- tory muimur and of crackling under the fingers, Avill readily enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. It occasionally happens in extensive Avounds of the chest, that a portion of the lung protrudes during efforts at expiration. If the Avound be free, the protruded lung may return on pressure or during inspiration. If left unretiuned, it soon becomes livid and gangrenous ; in these circumstances it may be removed by the knife or ligatiu’e ; but Guthrie advises that the protruded part should never be separated from the pleura costalis by AA^hich it is siuTOuuded at its base, so that the cavity of the thorax may not be opened ; the woiuid must then be closed in the usual Avay. WOUNDS OF THE HEART AND LARGE VESSELS. Wounds of the Pericardium.—The pericardium may be Avoimded AA'ith or AAuthout penetration of the chest, and AAuth or without injury of the heart. Without Avoiuid of the chest-AvaU, it may be lacerated by a severe contusion ; with penetration of the chest-AA'all, it may be AA^ounded by a stab or by gun-shot. Laceration of the Pericardium may take place from a severe bloAA' on the chest. In this Avay I have seen the membrane split doAvn longitudmally for tAvo or thi-ee inches, from contusion received in a fall. The Pericardium may he wounded by a stab AAdthont the heart being iujin-ed. Thus I have seen a AVOund of the pericardium in a youug man, in- flicted by his sweetheart AA’ith a sharp-pointed pair of embroidery scissors. The pericardium may be bruised or cut by an oblicpis gim-shot aa oiiud Avithout damage to the heart. This I haA'e seen happen Avith a pistol-bullet penetrating the chest obhquely. In injuries such as these, collapse to a greater or less extent is alwa}S met AA'ith. This is folloAA'ed by inflammation; the ordinary auscultatory signs of adhesive or effusive pericarditis, such as friction or creaking, with extended dulness on percussion, become perceptible ; and there ai-e intense thoracic oppression, dyspnoea, and restlessness, AAith pallor and a small lapid pu s^. In some cases of Avonnd of the pericardium, one of the coronary vessels may be injured, and blood become effused into the sac, between it and the hearL In these cases the intei-position of the layer of blood causes the heart s soiiiu to be weak and remote, the impulse of the apex to be indistinct or imper- ceptible, and the cardiac dnhiess to be Avidely diflused.