302 ARREST OF ARTERIAL lUEMORRlIAGE. some time, the muscles uppeiiring to bo completely paralysed ; gi-adually, how- ever, the supply of blood iucreases, until, when it has reached its usual standard, the normal vigoiu* of the part returns. By Avhat mechanism is this re-estahlishment of the blood-supply accom- plished? It is due to three series of changes taking place: l,in the Capillaries; 2, in the Anastomosing Branches; and 3, in the Trunk itself. The Capillaries are the first to enlarge; and this they appear to do by a vital process, and not in consequence of the mere increased pressm’e of the blood ; the temperatm-e of the lunb often rising, in the course of a day or two, to its normal standard, and sometimes to two or three degrees beyond it, whilst a great sensation of heat is experienced in it by the patient. This period extends over several weeks ; and, if opportimity be afforded of examining the limb diu-ing its continuance, the tissues generally will he found to be preter- naturally vascular, admitting injection freely. Coincidently with this increase of activity in the capillary system, the Anastomosing Arteries of the part enlarge, becomuig serpentine, tortuous, and waved, forming circles or an interlaced net-work. During this eularge- Fig. 128.—Anastomosing Cir- culation in Sartorius and Pectinens of Dog, three months after Ligature of Femoral. (After Poita.) Fig. 129.—Direct Anasto- mosing Vessels of Eight Carotid of Goat, five months after Ligature. (After Porta.) Fig. 130.—Change in the Trunk after Ligature, ■with Anasto- mosing Vessel. ment, much pain is often experienced, oiving to the pressure of the enlarged vessels upon neighbom’ing nerves. This foim of collateral circidation com- mences by a general enlargement of aU those muscular and subcutaneous secondary vessels of the limb, which can normally be readily distinguished by the naked eye. After this general enlargement has continued for some weeks, it tends to localise itself in a few of the principal anatomical inosculations, until at last it is through their medium that the circulation is chiefly maintained. Thus for instance, after the ligature of the common carotid, the supply of blood is ultimately conveyed by the inosculations between the superior and