ANEUmSMAL VAPJX. 3i7 Varix and Varicose Aneurism. Tliese preteraatni’al comniimications, which Avcre'fii-st noticed and accurately described by W. Hunter, most commonly happen at the bend of the arm, as a consequence of the punctime of the brachial artery m bleeding ; hut they have been met with in every part of the body in which an artery and vein lie in close juxtaposition, having been fomid to occur as a consequence of wounds of the subclavian, radial, carotid, temporal, iliac, femoral, popliteal, and tibial arteries. The two forms of disease to which the preternatural communication between aideries and veins gives rise, differ so completely in their natme, symptoms, effects, and treatment, that separate consideration of each is required. ArfEURiSMAL Vaeix results when, a contiguous artery and vein having been perforated, adhesion takes place between the two vessels at the seat of injui’y, the comnnrnication between them continuing pervious, and a portion of the arterial blood beiug projected directly into the vein at each heat of the pulse. Opposite to the aperture of commimication between the two vessels, which is always rounded and smooth, the vein vdll be found to be dilated into a fusiform pouch, with thickened coats. The veins of the part generally are considerably enlarged, somewhat nodulated, tortuous, and thickened. The artery above the wound is dilated ; below, it is usually somewhat contracted. These pathological conditions are evidently due to a certain quantity of the arterial blood finding its way into the vein, and distending and irritating it by its pressure and presence, and less consequently being conveyed by the lower portion of the artery. The Ssrtnptoms consist of a timioiu' at the seat of injiuy, which can be emptied by pressure upon the arteiy leading to it, or by compressing its walls. If subcutaneous, this tmnom’ is of a blue or pimple colour, of an oblong shape, and wiU be seen to receive the dilated and tortuous veins. It will be foimd to pulsate distinctly "with a tremulous jarring motion, rather than a distinct impulse. Auscultation detects in it a loud and blomng, whiffing, rasping, or hissing sound, usually of a pecuharly harsh character. This soiuid has very aptly been compared by Porter to the noise made by a fly in a paper-bag, and by Liston to the sound of distant and complicated machinery. The thrill and sound are more distinct in the upper than in the lower part of the hmb, and are most perceptible if the hmb be allowed to hang down so as to become con- gested. Besides these local symptoms, there is usually some muscular weak- ness, together irith diminution in the temperature of the part supplied by the injured artery. Treatment.—As this condition, when once formed, is stationary, all operative interference should be avoided, an elastic bandage merely beiug applied. Should a case occim in which more than this is required, the artery must be cut down upon and ligatured on each side of the wound in it. Hohnes suggests that possibly in aneimismal varix a cime might be obtained by pressime directed solely to the orifice in the vein. Varicose Aneurism.—In this case the openings in the arteiy and vein do not directly communicate (see Figs. 133 and 135), but an aneimismal sac is formed between the two vessels, into which the blood is poured before passing into the vein. The Pathological Condition of this fonn of injury consists in the forma-