16 OEN'ERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. Hospital at Boston for permission to administer it to a man from whom Dr. J. C. WaiTon wtis about to remoA'e a tumour of the neck. The result was most successful. The news of this great discovery was innnediatcly sent to England, where the first operations on patients antesthetised by the inhalation of the vapour of ether, were perfonned at the University College Hospital by Tiiston, who amputated a thigh and tore out an ingrowing toe-nail 'without any suffering to the patient. At these operations I was present; they were performed on Dec. 22, 184G ; and from that time the use of antesthetics has been established in surgical practice in CA'ery civilised country. For more than a year, sulphuric ether was the only agent habitually used for inducing anaesthesia. But during the whole of this period many professional men Avere busy -wfith experiments on the anaesthetic influence of various kinds of vapours ; and in November, 1847, Professor Simpson, of Edinbiu-gh, pub- lished an account of the anaesthetic properties of chloroform. In this country this agent soon came to be generally employed, although ether held its ground with the American sin-geons, by many of whom it is preferred to chloroform at the present time. The employment of AncRsthdks in Simgery is undoubtedly one of the greatest boons ever conferred upon mankind. To the patient it is invaluable in pre- venting the occiUTence of pain, and to the Surgeon in relieving him fr-om the distress of inflicting it. Anaesthesia is not, hoAvever, an unmixed good. E^’ery agent by AA^hich it can be induced produces a powerful impression on the system, and may occasion dangerous consequences Avhen too fr’eely or carelessly given ; and eA'en Avith eA’ery possible care, it appears certain that the inhalation of any anmsthetic agent is in some cases almost ineAutably fatal. We cannot purchase immimity fr'om suffering without incurring a certain degree of risk from the A'ery agent Avhich gives us ease. There can, however, be little doubt that many of the deaths that haA'e followed the inhalation of Anaesthetics have' resulted from Avant of knowledge or of due care on the part of the administrators. Yet, AvhateA’er precautions be taken, there is reason to fear that a fatal result must occasionally happen. This immediate risk, Avhich is but very small, is more than coimterbalanced by the immunity from other dangers which used formerly to occiu’ during operations. There is, however, another question in relation to Anaasthetics AA’^hich deserves' the most serious consideration on the part of the Simgeon ; yiz., Do they in- fluence the rate of mortality after operations ? On this point there is conflicting- testimony. Simpson has published statistics to shoAV that the mortality- after operations has lessened since the introduction of chlorofoim J. Arnott, on the other hand, adduces figin-es to prove that it has materially increased, in amputation by 12, in lithotomy by as much as 28 per cent. I am inclined to believe that the rate of mortality has increased since the use of Ana3sthetics in operative surgeiy. But is this increase altogether, or indeed to any degree, due to any effect produced on the system by the inhalation of Anaesthetics ?' Is it not in reality rather the indirect than the direct results of the employnmnt of Antesthetics ? May it not, in some measure at least, be OAAung to operations being often performed in very doubtfid or extreme cases, noAV that they can be done painlessly, AA'hen formerly the suffering inflicted Avould have deterred the Surgeon from proposing, or the patient from acceding to, their pcrfomance ?