640 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. after the accident, great pain and tenderness in the right iiypochondrinm Avcrc complained of, and dulness on percussion was found to extend as low as the umbilicus. He became jaimdiced, and there were symptoms of low peritonitis; these were follou’ed by great swelling of the abdomen, Avhich became tym- panitic ; the peritonitis continued, and symptoms of intestinal obstruction cimie on, the dulness increasing, Avith fluctuation in the flanks. He died on the sixteenth day after the accident, and on examination no loss than 240 ounces of bilious fluid, mixed Avith flakes of lymph, Avere found in the abdominal cavity; the obstruction of the bowels being dependent on the prossm-o of this effusion, and on the matting together of the intestines by lymph. There AAms a large rent in the thick border of the liver, which Avas beginning to cicatrise.' Injury over the region of the liver, probably occasioning laceration of that organ, folloAved by peritonitis and jaundice, may be recovered from. Of this I have had several instances in my oaati practice. The foUoAving is a good example. A man, about forty years of age, fell from a scaffold to the ground. In falling, he struck violently against a beam, injuring his abdomen on the right side. He was brought to the Hospital in a state of collapse, fr’om which he sloAA’ly rallied. There was no injury but that of the abdomen, of which he complained much, more particularly over the region of the hver, which Avas A'ery tense. Peritonitis speedily set in, AAuth gi-eat tympanitic distension of the belly, vomiting of bilious matter, and the passage of uncoloured stools. These symptoms continued many days, and the man became jaundiced. As the tympanites subsided, it was found that there was dulness on percussion in both flanks, and that the fluid, which Avas evidently extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, rose to a level with the umbilicus when he lay on his left side, which he did habitually. He was treated Avith opium, and put on a very mild unstimulating diet. He gTadually but slowly recovered, the vomitings becoming less frequent, and eventually ceasing, and the fluid in the abdomen being slowly absorbed, bile at the same time appearing in the motions ; but the tenderness over the region of the liver continued up to the time at which he left the Hospital, nearly two months after the accident. ^ In this case the long and severe collapse, the seat of pafri and injmy, the peritonitis, the bilious vomitings, and the white stools, all pointed to serious injiuy of the liver and the intestines; and rapid intra-abdominal extravasation could only be accounted for by rupture of that organ. _ ^ The Symptoms of an internal abdominal injiny are often extremely eqmvoca., and Avill necessarily vary according to the organ injured. If the Spleen have been lacerated, there will be all the effects of severe shock of the system, accompanied by those of internal hemorrhage; coldness, and pallor of the sinface, a smaU and feeble pulse, anxiety of countenance, and gi-eat depression of the vital powers, Avith pain at scat ol ^ perhaps dulness on percussion from extraA’asated blood. These symptou speedily terminate in death. j. fmvws H the Kiilneye he injured, there trill commonly be a Irequen desne to pass mine, and this rviU be tinged avith blood, often to a After the discharge of blood ceases, the nrmeav.il ™ ^ may continue so tor a great length of time. On exanuning such ..Ibmnmon