94<3 HAEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS, OR HjEMOPHILIA. luumorrhagc. At tlic moro advanced periods, Avlien tlie patient has become j anmmic, the coagulum becomes Avcakcr, and at last ceases to form altogether, the '■ blood being -watery and only tinged -\vith colouring matter. ° ’ * It would appear then that the only facts of importance that we at iwesent possess to throw light on the cause of hc^mophilia are, that it is hereditary ; that it is far more frequent in males than in females ; and that it may occur at all ages and in all countries. The relative parts played by the solid constituents of the body, the blood- vessels, and the blood, are absolutely unknown, as is its exact pathology. From the influence exerted by local apjjlications, there is, however, reason to believe as will be immediately stated, that the solids rather than the blood are at fault, and that one element in the disease is certainly a want of proper pontractility of the arteries. Tkeatmext.—In the constitutional treatment of a hsemorrhagic tendency dependent on those conditions that alter the constitution of the blood, such as scurvy, chronic jaundice, &c., much may be done by appropriate medical means. But in the true hereditary ha3mophilia, no remedies appear to exercise the slightest influence over the diathesis. At the same time, it would be wise that the subject of this unfortunate condition should attend to those ordinary ^ rules of health, the neglect of which, by lowering “ his condition,” might favour the tendency to bleed. Legg especially recommends the use of cold baths of plain, sea, or chalybeate waters, residence in a dry air, and the use of warm clothing. The preparations of iron are usually given in a routine way, but it I is doubtful if they have ever been of service in preventing the htemonhages, ’ certainly never in airesting them, though they may be of use in remo-ving the , anmmic state left after a copious bleeding. The Local Treatment is that on Avhich most dependence will necessarily be i placed. It consists in the use of three means—viz.. Pressure, Styptics, and j Cold. Pressure is only to be relied on in one form of ha;mophilic bleeding—viz., the continuous haemorrhage from the socket of a tooth after extraction. In these cases the cavity should be cleared out and carefully plugged from the bottom by means of lint or agaric, the whole retained by means of a piece of cork and a gutta-percha cap to fit over the neighbouring teeth, and comiwessed by a bandage applied under the chin against those in the soimd jaw. When | the hemorrhage occurs fr’om the soft parts, pressme must be used mth gveat j caution lest sloughing occur ; the integmnents being extremely liable to give way extensively under very moderate pressure, large subcutaneous extravasation developing at the same time, thus increasing materially the danger of the case and the local mischief. The compression of the main artery of the limb is useless and liable to the j objection of the development of ecchymoses and subcutaneous hjemorrhages. / Styptics of all kinds ha’^'e been used as a matter of course, and the per- j (diloride of iron has enjoyed especial favour. I haA e used and seen it used J frequently in a family of bleeders, members of Avhich have for many years c past been in the habit of coming to the University College Hospital for the | arrest of haimoiTbagcs. I can safely say that I haA’e ncA’er scon an} permanent e I Ijenefit from its appheation, or that of any other styptic, in these cases. j