436 SPECIAL FRACTURES. wards, depending on the action of the external rotators ; and forwards, o^ving to the contraction of the psoas and iliacus muscles. The second case was one of displacement forwards and inwai’ds. It was that of an elderly man. who died of internal iiijm-ies about half an horn’ after meeting with fracture of both thigh-bones, at the junetion of the upper and middle thirds by the passage of a cart-wheel across the thighs and body. In this case nearly the same conditions were presented in both limbs. On the left side there was an oblique fractm-e, with shortening to the extent of about two inches ; the upper fragment was tilted forwards and rather inwards, the lower one being drawn up behind it to the extent indicated. On dividing the psoas and iliacus, the upper frag-ment could be depressed shghtly. The adductor brevis and pectineus were now seen to be tense ; on cutting them through, it could be stiU fm’ther depressed. It was now dravm strongly inwards, in con- sequence of the extreme tension of the internal rotator muscles ; on cutting them through, the fragment yielded completely. Part of the adductor mag- nus and of the adductor longus was torn. The other muscles were uninjiu’ed. When extension was made with the limb straight out, the flexors of the leg offered a slight resistance : they were divided. The vastus externus was next cut through ; the lower fragment could then be di-aum down a quarter of an inch; on dividing the vastus internus and crimeus, it yielded one inch more ; on cutting through the adductor magnus and longus, it came down three quarters of an inch more ; thus making up the two inches of shortening. On the right side, the fracture was the same as that in the other limb. The effect of the section of the different muscles was the same ; but the vastus externus seemed to take a somewhat larger share in the displacement of the lower fragment. The Treatment of fractures of the shaft of the thigh-bone may be conducted in six different ways, each of which presents advantages in particular cases ; hence an exclusive plan of treatment should not be followed. Whatever treatment is adopted, and however carefully it may be carried out, the Sm-geon must not be disappointed if, in the adult, a certain amoimt of shortening be left. This is more particularly the case where the fracture is oblique and high up : the more transverse and the nearer the condyles, on the other hand, the less mil be the hability to shortening. In children, imion may almost always be prociued mthout any shortening of the bone. But a slight diminution in the length of the hmb is in reahty of no consequence, and gives rise to no inequality of gait; the pelvis, by the obliquity it assumes, remedying this. It is only when the shortening exceeds half or tlu-ee quarters of an inch, that it is important and occasions deformity. 1. The fracture may be treated by simply relaxing the muscles of the limb. This is effected by laying it upon its outer side, flexing the thig’h weU upon the abdomen and the leg upon the thigh, and supporting the limb in this position by an angular wooden or leather sphnt, extending fr-om the hip to the knee or outer ankle, and by a short inside thigh-splint. This position I have occa- sionally adopted in fr-actures about a couple of niches below the trochanters, in which there is a great tendency to the projection outwards of the lower end o the upper fr’anTnent, and have found these cases tiiin out bettei in is way than by any other plan of treatment.