204 IJS'JURIES OF SOFT PARTS. Altliougli the abo'S'e described plan is always to l^e followed when tlio ueccssary materials and appliances are at hand, it must not bo supposed that in their absence antiseptic treatment is impossible. It may be conducted as follows. The bleeding having been an-ested by torsion, and the wound syringed out as above described, and the sutimes put in, the nozzle of the syringe is to be introduced between the sutm-es, and the wound carefully \vashed out once more ttrough the drainage tubes and immediately coA'ered \vith a “ guard.” A large piece of lint soaked in carbolic acid and olive-oil (1 to 10) is then applied, extending some distance beyond the womid in every direction. The guard may then be withdraum from beneath the lint Avithout again exposing the wound. This dressing requires changing more frequently than the gauze, and is not so certain in its action. In di’essing the wound, a stream of carbolic acid (1 to 40) may be run OA'er it from a sponge, AA'hen it is unavoidably exposed Avithout a guard. If no drainage-tube be at hand, its place may be taken by a slip of hnt soaked in the carbohsed oil. A AveU made pad of carded oakimi is in every Avay as efficient as the antiseptic gauze, as far as its poAver of preA'euting decomposition is concerned. It should be covered Arith oiled silk or gutta-percha tissue to prevent the discharge from soaking through at one spot. The chief objections to the oakum are, the difficidty of making a imiform smooth pad from it, and the blackening and occasional irritation of the skin fr’onr the tar. The iiTitation is best prevented by smearing the skirr Arith olive oil arrd carbolic acid (1 to 10). Druirrg the last feAV years salicylic acid (a derivative of carbolic acid) has been used extensively irr Germany, especially by Thiersch, as a srrbstitrrte for carbolic acid. Its arrtiseptic powers are stated to be greater, it is fr'ee from odoru, has a faint SAveetish taste, arrd is rrot A'olatile, Thiersch uses it as a spray irr the propor- tiorr of 1 to 300, arrd states that its action is equal to the carbolic spray. If so, as the acid is not A'olatile, the spray carr orrly act by SAA'eeping the air and collectirrg the drrst orr the particles of the flrrid, arrd by coverirrg the wormd Avith a thirr layer of the acid solutiorr. In slorrghy wormds the acid is powdered OA'er the srrrface, either prue or mixed AAuth starch. In dr-essirrg fresh wormds, Thiersch uses cotton-wool moistened A\dth a correentrated solution of the acid arrd afterwards dried, or a dressirrg constantly inigated A\ith the solrrtiorr (1 to 300). Those who belicA'e in the power of the vapour of carbohe acid to preverrt decomposition, consider the rron-volatility of salicylic acid a great dr-awback to its use. Experierree has showrr that it is rrot less irritatiirg ; so that, except irr cases irr Avhich the smell is rmbearable to the patient, it presents ferv, if any, real adA'antages over carbolic acid. For dr’essirrg srrperficial Avormds, Lister has for some years jrast made rrse of boracic acid. The antiseptic poAA'ers of this acid are not equal either to carbohe or salicylic acids, but it is proportionately less irritating when irr direct corrtact A\ath the skirr or arr ulcer. In rrsirrg it, the raAV smTaco should be Avashed AA'ith a satruated solrrtiorr ot the acid arrd covered AAith a piece of “ protectiA'e,” preA'iorrsly dipped irr the same solrrtiorr. Over this arc placed Iaa^o or thr'ee layers ot Avet boracic lint, AA'hich are seemed Avith a common bandage arrd loft to dry. The boracic lirrt is prepared by dippiirg conrrrron lint in a satruated boiling solrrtiorr of the acid and allowing it to dry. It AA’ill then be forrrrd to be irnpregirated AAotlr the