873 INFANTILE SYPHILIS. Ill sypliiloimi of the brain, post mortem examination usually reveals gummata ivith sottened cerebral tissue around, adherent and opaque membranes, and degenerated eerebral arteries. In the cord, syphiloma appears in the form of sniaU scattered gummata, usually about the size of barley-corns. In one case (Wilks) the deposit was as large as a nut. These deposits have chiefly been met with in the lower half of the cord. The membranes may be thickened by gelatinous deposits, adherent and injected. In the Treatment of these cases, if not too far advanced, there is fortunately much to be done for the patient’s relief, if not complete cure. Mercurials in some shape—more especially the perchloride or the green iodide—if not pre- viously fully used, should have a fair trial given. The iodide of potassium in gradually increasing doses should be given, especially in those cases in which mercury has been fuUy employed or in which there is much periosteal thicken- ing and tenderness. In such cases also, counter-irritation by means of blisters and setons will be found usefid. And lastly, the epileptic paroxysms may be controlled by means of the bromides of potassiiun or of ammonium. But it must be evident that, when once the affection of the nervous centres has developed gummata of large size, no treatment can be of much avail, and destructive dis- organisation of the substance of the brain or cord must eventually result. INFANTILE SYPHILIS. Chaxckes on the labia of the mother may possibly infect the child at birth with either of the two forms of venereal disease that have been described, just as they may inoculate the hand of the accoucheur ; but syphilis thus contracted by the infant is not the form of the disease that is described as Infantile Syphilis. This is a truly hereditary infection, transmitted to the infant at the time of its conception, or communicated to it through the medium of the mother dm’ing intra-uterine life, and existing as a constitu- tional affection at the time of its birth. Though we may believe that syphihs is not easily eradicated fi’om a system into w^hich it has once been received, and that under certain conditions it may readily be transmitted to the offspring ; yet I think that we are still ignorant of the amount and natm’e of the consti- tutional affection of the parents that are necessary for the development of syphilis in their children, and that we are certainly not waiTanted in conclud- ing that a parent who has been, or even who is actually affected by constitu- tional syphilis, must necessarily have a syphilitic, or even a feeble and strumous family ; although the probability undoubtedly is that the offspring wuU be syphilitic. I have had under my observation a gentleman whom I had attended for secondary sjqihilis, and who, contraiy to my adAuce, married some years ago ; and, though he has since then suffered from psoriasis of the hands, mucous tubercles. Assures on the lips and tongue, and venereal sarcocele, yet his wife has borne a perfectly healthy family, not only Avithout any syphilitic taint, but Avithout any apparent constitutional cachexy. When the oviuii is infected Avith syiihilis, several morbid states may result, according to the inteusity of the infection. It may be so blighted that it never reaches the maturity of intra-uterine life, but becomes early aborted ; in this way many consecutive miscarriages may happen in consequence of one or