TNJUIUES OF THE SPINE. 572 rhc ori/ans oj spvcml sense nsnally become more or less seriously allected They become sometimes over-sensitive and in-itable, or their functions are impaucd oi penerted. In many cases we find a combination of all these conditions in the same organ. Vision is nsnally affected in various ways and in j eiy different degrees. In some cases, thongh rarely, there is donblc vision and perhaps slight strabismus. In others there is an alteration in the accom- modation of the eye, so that the patient has to use glasses, or to change those which he has previously worn. The patient cannot read for more than a few minntes, the letters rnnning into one another. More commonly, mnsete voli- tantes and spectra, rings, stars, flashes, or sparks—white, coloin-ed, or llame- like—are complained of. The eyes often become over-sensitive to light; and this intolerance of hght may amount to positive photophobia. It gives rise to a habitually contracted state of the broivs, so as to exclude light as much as possible from the eyes. One or both eyes may be thus affected. This intolerance ^ of light may be associated ivith dimness and imperfection of sight. ^ Vision may be normal in one eye, but impamed seriously in the other. The circulation in the fundus of the eye is visible to some patients. The hearing may be variously affected. Not only does the patient commonly com- plain of the noises in the head and ears that have ah’eady been described, but the ears, like the eyes, may be over-sensitive or too dull. One ear is frequently over-sensitive, whilst the other is less acute than it was before the accident. The relative sensibility of the eai’S may readily be measured by the distance at Avhich the tick of a ivatch may be heard. Loud and sudden noises are pecu- liarly distressing to these patients. Taste and smell are sometimes, but more rarely, perverted. The sense of touch is impaired. The patient cannot pick up a pin, cannot button his dress, camiot feel the difference between different textures, as cloth and verfet. He loses the sense of tveight, and cannot tell, for instance, whether a sovereign or a shiUiug is balanced on his finger. Sveech is rarely affected. The attitude is stiff and unbending. The patient holds himself very erect, usually walks straight forwards, as if afraid or unable to tinn to either side. The movements of the head or trunJc, or both, do not possess their natmal free- dom. There may be pain or difficulty in moving the head in the antero- IDOsterior direction, or in rotating it; or aU movements may be attended by so much pain and difficulty that the patient is afraid to attempt them, and hence keeps the head in an attitude of tmmobihty. The movements of the trunk are often equally restrained, especially in the lumbar region. Flexion for- wards, backwards, or sideways, is painful, difficult, and may be impossible; flexion backwards is usually most complained of. If the patient be desired to stoop and pick anything off the ground, he AviU not be able to do so in the usual way, but bends doAvn on the knee and so reaches the ground. If he be laid horizontally, and told to raise himself into the sitting postmc, without the use of his hands, he will be unable to do it. The state of the sjhne Avill be found to be the real cause of these symptoms. On examining it by pressure, by iDercussion, or by the application of the hot sponge, it will be found that it is painful, and that its sensibility is exalted at one, two, or three points. These me usually the iqApcr cervical, the middle dorsal, and the lumbar regions. The exact vertebras that are affected vary