759 L YMPHADENOMA. connective tissue. The blood vessels comprising it arc normal in stiuctmc. This forms the ordinary superficial ntevus, mother’s mark, or port-wine stain. It is, probably, always congenital. The cavernous angioma, or erectile tumoui, resembles in structure the corpus cavernosum penis, being made up by spaces, communicating freely with each other. The walls of the spaces are composed of fibrous tissue, and are lined with an endothelium resembling that of a vein Fi?. 2S7.—Nffivus. A. ,1S8 aiiim.) inliltniting fat. The shaded hands rejire- sent vessels out of focus, the ends of some of them heing shown in transverse section. B. (154 iliani.) shows the endothelinni apparently almost ohstriictiiig the lumen of the vessels as the result of their contraction. Fig. 2SS.—Lymiihadenoma. a. (454diam.) Some of the cells have been removed to show the arrangement of the stroma. h (188 diam.), shows general an-angement. (Fig. 287). These tumours are sometimes distinctly circumscribed, and enclosed ill a loose capsule of connective tissue ; in other cases they are diffuse. They arc rarely if ever congenital, usually arising in young adult life. They are most common in the siibcutaneoiis tissue, but have also been met with in the liver, spleen, and other internal organs. The mode of origin of these tiimoiu’S is doubtful. The symptoms and treatment of vascular tiimoiu’S vdll be fidly described in a subsequent chapter. 1). Lymphangioma, Tumour composed of Lymphatic Vessels. These excessively rare tumours are composed of dilated lymphatic vessels communicating with each other, like the spaces of the ca’^'ernoiis angioma, the cavities containing lymph instead of blood. Yirchow has described them as occiiiTing congenitally in the tongue, forming one variety of hypertrophy of that organ (macroglossia). They are also said to have been seen forming pale, compressible, congenital tumom-s of the skin. E. Lymphadenoma. Tumour composed of Lymphatic Tissue. Lymphoma.—Lymph adenomata are composed of tissue exactly resembling that of the follicles of the lymphatic glands, lymphoid or lymphatic tissue, the .so-called “adenoid tissue ” of His; but to avoid confusion, the term “ adenoid” should never be used in connection with this structure, but reserved for tissues resembling those of the secreting glands. Lymphoid tissue (Fig. 288) is characterised by a delicate reticulate stroma, in the meshes of which arc packed