555 DIABETES IN INJURIES OF THE HEAD. in-egular symptoms, when accompanied by much coldness on the surface, slow- ness of pulse, and depression of vital power, may generally be looked upon as indicative of cerebral laceration. This eftcct of the cerebral lesion, whether it assume the form of paralysis or of convulsions, is alwaj's manifested on the side of the body opposite to that on which the injury to the brain exists ; but not necessarily opposite to that on Avhich the blow has been inflicted on the head ; for the injury to the brain may, by counter-stroke, be in that cerebral hemisphere Avhich is opposite to the side of the head that has been struck. Thus, if a person struck on the right side of the head sustain a ruptime of the middle meningeal artery, and haA'e extrav asation of blood on the right hemis- phere of the brain, he will have hemij)legia on the left side, and vice versa. But, if the blow that is inflicted on the right side were to give rise to extrava- sation by counter-stroke on the left side of the head, the paralysis would develope itself on the side that had been struck. So it is with convulsive movements ; they vdll occur in the arms and legs, on the side opposite to that on which the brain has been injured, whether that injmy be on the side struck from du’ect violence, or on the opposite side from counter-stroke. In this way the hemiplegia may occur on one side, and the convulsions on the other. A man was struck a violent blow on the right temj)le. He was seized with hemiplegia and facial paralysis on the left side, and with convulsive movements on the right side of the face, the right arm, and leg. He died a few days after the injury. On examination, we found a fissure of the right parietal bone, laceration of the middle meningeal artery, and a large clot pressing on the right side of the brain: hence the hemiplegia on the left side of the body. There was laceration with disorganisation of the middle lobe of the brain on the left side : hence the comnlsive movements of the right side of the face, body, and limbs. Saccharine Diabetes is an occasional consequence of injuries of the brain. A man 43 years of age was admitted into Hospital under my care with para- lysis, the lesult of a fall on the back of his head. On examining his urine, it was found to contain sugar in very large quantity. Previously to the accident, he had been perfectly weU and robust; and, as the paralytic symptoms disap- peared, the diabetic sugar gradually lessened in quantity, until it ceased entirely to be formed, and this notwithstanding the continued use of saccharine and amylaceous matter in the food. Claude Bernard has recorded some similar instances in illustration of the interesting physiological fact pointed out y im, that wounds of the central j)ortion of the meduUa oblongata and irrita- tion of the fourth ventricle of the brain in rabbits occasion saccharine diabetes, an indeed, that in the dog artificial traumatic diabetes may be induced by fr-acture of the skull and consecutive iiijiuy of the brain. The Danger of wounds of the brain varies greatly according to the part that IS mjm-ed. It is greatest and most immediate in injuries of the base of the brain, of the pons Varolii, and criu-a cerebri; it is least and most remote w en the upper and anterior part of the hemispheres is the seat of lesion. he Mode of Death after these injuries varies. They may prove fit-il at once, when the base is wounded, by the injury of the respiratory tract • in course of a few hours, by the continuance of shock, and by the extrava «at,o„ of blood withi,uhoc«.on.oo; Of a late ponod/by thc^_o