263 FROST-BITE. (Iocs this by simple division of the bone by means of a narroAV saw: Esmarch recommends, as a more elfectual procedure, the removal of a wedge-shaped piece of bone about three-quarters of an inch in width above and one mch m width below. Mtcr this has been done, the patient Avill be able to move the jaw at the normal articulation on the healthy side and at the false joint where the jaw has been cut across. Warty Cicatrices.—The cicatrices of burns, especially on the neck and chest, occasionally become after a time projecting, red, and glazed, as if composed of a mass of fungating granulations, smoothed down aud lightly skinned over. This condition, which may be looked on as a substanti^e disease, and resembles keloid in appearance, has chiefly been met with in children; but I haA’C scA'cral times seen it in adults, especially in women who had been badly burnt by their dresses taking fire. In these cases I observed what I haA'e noted in other similar instances in children ; that the waity cicatrices were the seat of the most intolerable itching, which no external application seemed to relieve. I have, hoAvever, seen the pruritus mitigated by the administration of large doses of liquor potasste. If small and naiTOAV, these cicatrices may be dissected out: if large, they cannot be removed without risk of much hmmoiThage ; for, although fibroid, they are A^ery vascular. The cause of this peculiar outgrowdh of dense cicatricial tissue is altogether imknoAvu. It may in some cases, perhaps, be owing to want of care in checking the luxiu’iance of the granulations ; but in other cases it ocems though every attention is paid to the heahng of the wound. The cicatrix of a bimi may become the seat of a mahgnant gi'OAvth many years afterwards. I have removed a large epithelioma from the cicatrix of a bm-n, on the fore-arm of a Avoman, seventy years after the injury had been inflicted, which happened AAhen she wns three or four years of age. Primary Amputation may be required if the bmu have destroyed the whole thickness of a limb ; the part charred should then be removed at once, at the most conA'enient point aboA’e the seat of injury. This operation may also be required at a later period, if, on the sejAaration of the eschars, it be found that a large joint has been opened, and is suppmating ; or if the disorganisation of the limb be so great as to exhaust the powers of the patient in the ettbrts at repair. Great caution, how'CA’er, should be employed in determining on the proiAi’iety of amputating Avhen the bmn has extended, though in a minor degi’ee, to other parts of the body, lest the powers of the patient be insuffleient for the double call that AviU thus be made upon them. FROST-BITE. % A\ hen the body has been exposed to seA’ere or long-continued cold, Ave find, as in the case of bums, that local and constitutional effects are produced. Local Ixfluexce of Cold.—This is chiefly manifested on the extremities of the body, as the nose, ears, chin, hands, and feet, AAhere the circulation is less active than at the more central jAarts. It chiefly ocems to an injurious degi'ce in very young or aged persons, or in those Avhose constitutions have been depressed by Avant of the necessaries of life. In such persons frost-bite and the lesulting gangi-ene are less due to the Ioav temperatme to Avhich they are exposed, than to the habitual Ioav Aitality of the extremities.