treatment of constitutional syphilis. 859 <n-iiia doses, may often be ad\-antageously added ; or this salt may be given alone in some bitter infusion, as of cascarilla, quassia, or bark ; or, n tne patient be in a A’ery caehectic and emaeiatcd state, in cod-liver oil. ^ ihc iodides of sodium and oUimmon iam have also been highly spoken ot; especially by some Italian practitioners, in the treatment of constitutional syiDliilis. In the more advanced cases of the disease, when it has assumed the tertiary fomi, and the constitution is much broken and the patient amemic, the preparations of iron may be given with much advantage. AVhen there is gi-eat emaciation, I have found the combination of the iodides of potassium and of iron with cod-hver oil, or the tartrate of iron in sarsaparilla, to be especially beneficial. But useful as these remedies, especially iodide of potassium and the dilute mineral acids, unquostioiiably are, more especially when administered in the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, I do not believe that they exercise any specific influence on the disease, or that they do more than relieve or remove local manifestations, often of a troublesome and disfiguring character ; failing alto- gether to cure the constitutional alfection and to eradicate the virus from the system, for which purposes merciuy will at last be required. Their gi-eat utility appears to consist in removing cachexy, and in restoring the vigour of the nutritive and reparative actions, which are in abeyance ; and, by improA-ing the general tone of the system, in enabhng it to resist more etfectuaUy the advance of the disease, and in some cases, perhaps, to allow this to Avear it§elf out. That great advantage results from maintaining the tone of the system in syphilis, is undoubted ; ive always fiud that the intensity of the ravages of the syphilitic poison is in direct proportion to the debility and want of resisting power in the constitution of the patient. Besides being useful in this way, these remedies are often of service in removing local affections, and in repairing the injury inflicted upon tissues aud orgaus by the low and specific inflammation that is set up in them. In this respect, indeed, more particularly in its advanced or tertiary stages, when the specific nature of the disease is to a great extent worn out, and little remains but to correct the cachexy and mahintrition that have been left as the result of long-con- tinued ill-health, nothing can exceed the value of these remedies in constitu- tional syiAhilis. I do not, however, believe that the disease can be eradicated from the system by these means, or that any of these remedies, even the iodide of potassimn, can take the place of mercury in the treatment of constitu- tional syphilis ; indeed, I cannot call to mind a single case in which this form of the aftection has been radically and permanently cured AAothout the adminis- tration of mercury. Those cases in Avhich they exercise most beneficial influence, are certainly instances in Avhich mercury has been injudiciously em- ployed, either for the primary or the secondary disease, and in Avhich the powers of the constitution have in this Avay been sapped. In these circumstances, a course of the iodide of potassium, of the mineral acids, or of the tartrate of iron ill sarsaparilla, should always bo administered, Avith a vioAV of improving the patient’s general health. Looking, therefore, upon mercury as the only remedy Ave possess that in- fluences directly and permanently the syphihtic poison, I think that it should always bo administered in a full course during some period of the treatment of constitutional syphilis. The time at Avhich it should bo given is of considerable