609 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGE. has observed, will most commonly be found in the right bronclms. The ex- planation of this has been pointed out by Gray, who states that on making a transverse section of the trachea, and taking a bird’s-eye view of the ])ifurca- tion, the septum vill bo seen to be considerably to the left of the middle line ; so that any foreign body falling down the trachea would naturally have a gi-eater chance of entering the right than the left bronchus, although the left bronchus is a more direct continuation of the trachea than the right. The gi’eater size of the right bronchus would also favoiu- the entrance of a foreign body into it. If the substance be small, it may pass into one of the secondary divisions of the bronchi ; and, if it continue to be lodged here for a sufficient length of time, may make a kind of cavity for itself in the substance of the limg, where it may either lie in an abscess, or become encysted. The Symptoms may be divided into three stages : 1. Obstruction, imme- diately following the introduction of the substance ; 2. Imtation, produced by its presence ; and 3. Inflammation, coming on at a later period. 1. Symptoms of Obstruction.—The immediate symptoms vary somewhat according to the size and natime of the body, and the part of the ah'-tube that it reaches. In aU cases there is a feeling of intense suffocation, with great difficulty of breathing, and violent fits of spasmodic coughing, often attended by vomiting ; diming which the foreign body may be expelled. Indeed, its partial entry and immediate extrusion by coughing are not uncommon. In some cases, immediate death may ensue at this jieriod. If the body have entered the am-passage folly, there is violent coughing, with feeling of suffoca- tion foi an horn’ or two, accompanied by hvidity of the face, gTeat anxiety, and sense of impending death. There is also usually pain about the epistemal notch. The symptoms then gradually subside, but any movement on the part of the patient brings them on again with renewed violence. AU these symp- toms are most severe if the foreign body remain in the larynx ; the voice being- then croupy, irregular in tone, or altogether lost. If it be lodged elsewhere” so often as it is coughed up, and strikes against fhe interior of the larynx, an intense feeling of suffocation is produced ; and if it happen to become impacted there, sudden death may result, even though it he not of sufficient size to block up the aiwpassagc, apparently by the spasm that is induced. Some years ao-o a boy died at the Westminster Hospital before tracheotomy could be performed in consequence of a flat piece of walnut-sheU that had entered the trachea eing suddenly coughed up, and becoming impacted in one of the ventricles of the larymx The symptoms, during this period, are much less severe when the loreign body is in the trachea or bronchi. men there is a suspicion that the foreign body is lodged in the larvnx a iaryngoscopic examination should be made, when it may, perhaps, if laro-e— as a plate with false teeth—be seen between the vocal cords. ^ _ 2. Symptoms of Irritation.—When the foreign body has passed into the air-passage, and the immediate effects produced by its intJoduction have ft Tr of symptoms, dependent on the irritation produced by 1 tv' 'f ^1 the occurrence of these that tL pXtffi are o/tv-rp burgeon’s observations. These smptoms are oi ty 0 kinds ; yeneral and auscultatory. symptoms ho General Symptoms consist of occasional vOli, X. fits of spasmodic cough E R