WHITLOW. 703 readily on pressure, and feeling somewhat soft and doughy between the fingers: the integiunents of the penis are also greatly swollen and oedematous, and sometimes the inflammation extends to the areolar tissue of the cord. The chief characteristic of this form of erysipelas is its tendency to run into slough Avithout any prcA’ious brawny or tense condition of the parts ; the dartos becoming so distended Avith sero-plastic fluid that the circulation thi-ough it is arrested, and its tissue loses its vitality. When an incision is made into it in this state it scarcely bleeds, and the sides of the wound present a yellowish- Avhite gelatinous appearance. The Treaiment of erysipelas of the scrotum consists in making a free incision about four inches in length from behind fonvards on each side of the septum, taking care, of course, not to go so deep as to Avound the testes ; the part must then be supported on a pillow, and well poulticed and fomented. If this incision be not made at once, a great part or even the Avhole of the scrotum may slough away, leaA'ing the testes and cord bare ; in these unpleasant circumstances, hoAvever, the parts AviU often Avith great rapidity cover them- selves with a ncAV integument. The oedema of the penis usually subsides of itself, or after making a few punctures in it; should its integuments, how- ever, threaten to slough, a free incision must be made into it, or the prepuce be slit up. Erysipelas of the Pudenda is occasionally met Avith in iU-fed unhealthy children in whom cleanliness is neglected. The parts become of a dusky or hvid red, swell considerably, and quickly run into gangrene, which spreads up the abdomen or doAvn the nates. It may prove fatal by inducing peritonitis or exhaustion. In the Treatment, ammonia, bark, and the chlorate of potash, Avith good noiu’ishment, and a little wine, are the principal means, at the same time that yeast or chlorinated poultices are applied locally. Erysipelatous Inflammation of the Fingers, or, as it is commonly called. Whitlow, is a frequent affection in old and in young people, either occiu’ring spontaneously in cachectic constitutions, or as an accompaniment of renal disease, or arising from the irritation produced by scratches, punctiu’es, or the inoculation of the part with poisonous or putrescent matters. It is most common in the spring of the year, when, indeed, it sometimes appears to be epidemic. That whitloAV is truly an erysipelatous affection of the fingers, appears to be proA ed by the following facts. 1. The causes, whether of season, infection, or local irritation, are the same in both affections. 2. The constitutional dis- turbance in whitloAV is always very severe for a disease apparently so slight, and assirmes the same character of speedy depression that we observe in erysipelas. 3. I he inflammation of the affected finger is inv’ariably diffused, never being bounded by adhesion, but always tending to terminate in suppura- tion and sloughing. 4. So soon as tire disease spreads beyond the affected uger, or to the back of the hand, it assumes a distinctly erysipelatous apnear- ance and character. ^ ^ r n ai The inflammation of Avhitlow is in many cases confined to the pulp of the this, and often quentlyAuthout any recognisable traumatic cause. The part become