liUrTUEE OF ABDOMIXAL 639 VISCERA. owing to its large size and the unyielding nature and ready lacerability of its structure ; the other solid organs, such as the spleen and kidneys, do not suffer so frequently : the pancreas I ha^-e never seen injm-ed. Among the hollow organs the stomach most commonly suffers, and it is especially likely to do so if struck while distended by food. Any portion of the intestinal canal may be lacerated. I ha^'e seen the duodenum, the ileum, the jejunum, and the large intestine ruptured in different cases : the mesentery likewise may be torn, and the spermatic cord snapped across. The sufferer usually dies in the coiu'se of a few hours, or at the utmost at the end of two or three days after the receipt of these severe injuries, from hfemorrhage into the abdominal cavity, conjoined with shock. It is seldom that life is prolonged sufficiently for peritonitis to be set up, though this is the chief danger to be aiDprehended in those cases that survive the more immediate effects of the accident. The shock of itself may prove fatal, though there be but little apparent intcnial mischief ; thus, I have seen a man die collapsed eight hours after a buffer-accident, in whom no injury was found except a small rupture of the mesentery, attended with but very shght extravasation of blood. The severity of the shock, amounting often to prolonged and complete collapse, is one of the most remarkable phenomena attending these injuries. It is difficult to account for it, except on the supposition that it is due to wound or concussion of the great sympathetic nerve and its large abdominal ganglia. To whatever cause it may be referred, it is certain that it is greater than that which follows a corresponding injury, imattended by loss of blood, of any other part of the body except the central portions of the cerebro-spinal nervous system. The continuance of the shock may be maintained, and its intensity increased, by the syncopal effect of internal hemorrhage, -which, when the solid organs are ruptured, is the most common cause of death. So far as my experience goes, I would say that the shock is most severe in inj rules of arrd about the stomach, probably from damage to the great solar plexus. Hemorrhage is the most usual cause of death wherr the liver arrd spleeir are rrrptrued ; and the patieirt usually dies of acute peritorritis wherr the irrtestine has been tom across. It does rrot follo-w, however, that these injrules are necessarily fatal. Patients have lived after all the signs of rrrjrture of the kidney, the passing of bloody urine, arrd the preserree of circrrmscribed peri- tonitis, and, when death has occurred at a later period, cicatrices have been detected in the orgarr. A patient was admitted urrder my care irrto the Uni'S ersity College Hospital for a severe blow upoir the back from the buffer of^ a railway carriage, followed by htematuria and other symptoms of rerral injury ; on his death fr’om pnerrmonia rrine weeks after the acciderrt, arr extra- vasation of blood, with the marks of receirt cicatrisation, was forrrrd irr the left kidney. Iiirpture of the liver is by no means-speedily or even rrecessarily .fatal. It may be, and rrsually is so, from great extravasation of blood or of bile ; but if neither of these be largely poured out, the patient may live for some consider- mile time, though ho may eventually succumb to traumatic peritonitis A man was once admitted under my care into the University Colleo-e Hosnital - .0 had been crushed between the butters of two railway Lria4 He collapsed and apparently moribund, Imt rallied in a few houil Two days