447 TRExiTMENT OF SIMPLE FRxiCTURE OF LEG. every possible kind of apparatus has been used. In the majority of cases, Avhere there is but little displacement and swelling-, ordinary leg-splints (Cline’s, well padded, are extremely convenient), are readily applied and keep the bones in good apposition. These may be kept on for the first few days till all swelling has abated, and then replaced by the starched or plaster bandages. In frac'ture of the leg, indeed, the starched bandage or the Bavarian splint is especially applicable. The starched bandage should be applied as follows. The limb having been well covered with wadding, a strong soaked pasteboard splint, fom inches broad, and long enough to extend from above the knee to six or eight inches beyond the heel, should be applied to the back of the leg. The projecting terminal piece is now to be tinned up along the sole of the foot, and two lateral strips adapted, one to each side of the limb. Over this the starched bandage, single or double according to the size of the limb, must be tightly applied. After it is dry, about the end of the Fig. 196. —M'Intyre’s Spliut, modifled by Liston. second day, it must be cut up as represented in Fig. 142, and re-adjusted, and the patient may then walk on crutches with perfect safety. MTntyi’e’s sphnt (Fig. 196) will be found of great service in the earlier periods, if there be much ecchymosis or extravasation, as it keeps the limb in an easy position, and aUoAVS the ready apph’cation of evaporating lotions. In applying this splint, there are fom’ points that require to be attended to : 1. That the angle be convenient, and suitable to the apposition of the fragments ; 2. That the aperture con-esponding to the heel be closed by a few tiu’iis of a roller hi which the heel may rest firmly, but with a certain amount of yielding pressure ; 3. That the foot be covered with a flannel sock ; and, 4. That the foot-piece be raised and steadied on a wooden block. In some cases of fr-acture of the bones of the leg, however, MTntyre’s apparatus is not applicable. This is more particularly the case when the fracture is veiy oblique, from above down- wards, and from before backwards ; in these circumstances, the fragments cannot be brought into good position so long as the limb is kept extended and resting on its posterior surface ; the bones riding considerably, and one or other of the fractm’ed ends pressing upon the skin in such a way as often to threaten ulceration. In these cases it is, that division of the tendo Achillis has been recommended, with a view of removing the influence of muscular contraction. This appears to me, however, to lie an unnecessarily severe pro- cedm’e, and certainly was not very successful in some cases in wliich I Iuia'c