.827 CURATIVE TREATMENT. M-ith more or with heavier food than ifc can digest, under the impression that stron<>- food is necessary to give the patient strength. In consequence of this eiTor'thc irritability of the mucous membrane is kept up, nuU-ition is impel- fectly and badly performed, the surplus food is thrown olf 111 the shape 0 lithates or other products of iiialassimilation, and health and strength, uhich are the results of perfect nutrition, become impaired rather than impiw eel. d'he use of stimulants, whether wine or beer, should be very sparing, and the milder and weaker should bo prefeii-ed to the heavier and stronger kinds ot malt liquor; the bowels must be kept regular with the simplest aperients; the clothing should be warm, and must cover the whole of the surface ; and t ie patient should, if possible, be kept in well-ventilated rooms. He should be allowed sufficient exercise in the open air, not carried to the imint ot latigue, and should, if his circumstances will permit, have change of air from time to time, alternating a sea with an inland climate. Bathing also, whether in sea or river, with the habitual use of the tepid or cold sponge-bath, and fr'iction ot the surface vith horse-hair gloves or a rough towel, so as to keep the skin in healthy action and its cutaneous ch’ciilation free, should be regularly practised. In carrying out this general plan of treatment, it must be borne in mind that the health and strength of a delicate and weakly child can only be imjiroved up to the highest standard admissible by its individual constitu- tion. A weakly scrofulous child may be improved in health and may be strengthened in body; but it can never, by any hygienic, dietetic, or medi- cinal process, have the original defect in its organisation so completely eradicated as to be rendered robust and vigorous, as would be a child of good congenital stamina who had been equally well cared for. The Curative Treatment should be specially directed, like the preventive. to the general improvement of the nutrition, and through it to the augmenta- tion of the constitutional vigonr of the patient ; all those hygienic means that have just been alluded to being continuonsly carried out. The more strictly medical treatment of scrofula consists in the administration of tonics and alteratives with the view of improving the patient’s constitutional powers. Before they are administered, however, it is always necessary to see that the digestive organs are in a healthy condition. Scrofula is a consequence of mahiutrition ; and unless we see that digestion, the first stage of the nutri- tive process, is properly accomplished, all other means will be useless. When the tongue is covered noth a white, thick, creamy fin, and has elongated papillas and red edges, the mucous membrane being in a state partly of irritabihty and partly of debility, neither purgatives nor tonics can be largely administered : the former irritating, the latter overstimulating the morbidly sensitive mucons membrane. In these circumstances the patient should be confined to the mildest possible diet, which must principally consist of milk, boiled fish, Avhite meats, and light pudding, no stimulant of any kind being alloAved except a small quantity of claret or bitter beer; and, unless the patient have been accustomed to the use of stimulants, these even had better be dispensed with. Small doses of merciny with chalk, of soda and rhubarb, should be occasionally administered at bed-time, with some of the compound decoction of aloes on the following morning; and a few grains of the carbonate of soda or of potash may be given twice or thrice a day in some light bitter infusion, as of cascarilla