929 TREATMENT OF VARICOSE VEINS. as local suppuration and slougluiig-, pya3mic symptoms, and even fatal embolism, have followed its use. 5. The most convenient and safest way of obliterating the vein in my opinion, and that which I always employ, consists in compressimj Urn vessel at several points, by passing a hare-lip pin underneath it, laying a piece of wax-bougie o-s'er it, and then applying the twisted suture ai’ound the pin and over the bougie (Fig. 3i)l«). In this way the vessel gradually ulcerates by the pressure that is exercised upon it, and the presence of the bougie prevents the ligature from injuring the skin. In performing this operation, care must be taken that the vein be not transfixed, but that the pin be pushed, or rather dipped under- neath it; the ligature should not be too thin, and must bo apijlicd tightly over the bougie ; several phis (as many as eight or ten, if necessary) should be intro- duced along the course of the same vessel, at distances of about three-quarters of an inch from one another (Fig. 332); those highest up should be put in first, and they should be left in for at least a week or ten days, by which time the obliteration of the vessel will have taken place. I believe that all the danger of the operation consists in the transfixion of the vein by the pin ; the operator may always know when he has done this by the escape of a few drops of venous blood ; when the pin is properly passed under and clear of the vein. the operation is a perfectly bloodless one. If the vein be transfixed, the pin should im- mediately be withdi-aAvn and passed at another point; if it be allowed to remain in the vein, as a foreign body, and suppima- tive phlebitis may ensue. Where the vein is properly compressed between the pin below' •and the bougie above, adhesive infiammation takes place in it, and it becomes oblitciated at the point of pressiu’e. By attention to these circumstances I have never met with any ill-consequences, either from suppui-atiA'e phlebitis •or pyaemia, in any of the cases in which I have performed this operation, which arc several hundreds in number. In addition to the application of the pins in the usual way, H. Lee has re- ■commended the subcutaneous division of that portion of the A'ein which is included between them, after coagulation of the blood has taken place. This I ha\e found to be an useful addition to the ordinary treatment, and to insiu-e the obhteration of the vessel. The points of the pins maybe prevented from pressing injuriously upon the skm, by putting small pieces of adhesive plaster under them. The pow'ers 3 o VOL. I.