i8 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. momable circumstances, ifc requires scyeral respirations to replace the stroiio- cose by fi-esh air; but if the patient happen to be in a ri5>-id state, or hS Rdottis be closed by spasm, considerable delay unll occur, diming which time if the dose have not been strong enough to an-cst the action of the heart’ the blood IS passing through the hmgs aud becoming farther charged irith chloroform. Various inhalers have been contrived for the pur[iosc of regulating the pro- portion of chlorofoiTu m'th accimacy. The simplest kind consists of a maslv coA'ering the nose and mouth, with a box for sponge or blotting- paper on Avhich the chloroform is poiu’ed, and mth i-ah^es to prei'ent the expired air fi-om glassing through the chloroform- chamber. The objection to this form is, that it yields a very strong mixture at &st; and, when the chloroform has half evaporated, the remainder is so cooled that it evaporates too slowly to yield enough chloroform to insime the quietude of the patient, especially Fig. l._Clover’s Chloroform Appmatus._ pg gp^ldd mOA'C his head about so as to get a small quantity of air betiveen his face and the mouth- piece. Snow improved this apparatus by siuTounding the chloroform-chamber- Avith water, and also making the upper valve movable, so that at the beginning of the inhalation only a portion of the inspired air should pass over the chloroform. This was a great improvement; but accinacy Avas not secured, because the proportion of chloroform given up varies with the temperatine of the room, Avith the sloAniess or rapidity of the patient’s breathing, and Aidth the cooling of the chloroform, which is not entirely jireA-ented by the- Avater-jacket. Clover has deA'ised an ajDparatus, consisting of a bag holding 8000 cubic inches of air, which is sus- pended from the coat-collar at the back of the administrator, and con- nected Avith the face-piece by a flexible tube (Fig. '•>). The bag is charged by means of a belloAVS (Fig. 1, 1) measming 1000 cubic inches ; and the air is passed through Fig. 2.—Ailmiiiisti'iitioii of Cliloiofonii by Clover’s a boX Alarmed Alith hot AVatCl, illto Apparatus. AA'liich is introduced, at each filling of the belloAVS, as much chloroform as is required for 1000 cubic inches of air. This is done Avith a graduated glass syringe (Fig. 1, 2) adjusted by a