PREFACE. dexterous application of manual or operative means for tlieir relie ; but as demanding an exercise of general medical knowledge,^ an a thorougli acquaintance with all those conditions, whether intrinsic to the patient, or surrounding him, that favour or prevent his restoration to health. The remarks in the earlier part of the First Chapter, ivill, it is trusted, sufficiently indicate to the Student what is re- quired of him in order that he may become a successful Practitioner of Surgery. In every instance an endeavour has been made to give as full anc clear a description of Symptoms, Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treatment, as the importance of each demands, and the present state of burgical knowledge permits. The various new Operations practised in modern Surgery have been carefully described, the difficulties and dangers attending their per- formance pointed out, and the cases requiring them detailed. The growing importance of Surgical Hygiene has led to special attention being paid to it in the Chapters on Operations, Wounds, and Septic Disease. With respect to Diagnosis it may be remarked that, as accuracy in this branch is an all-important requisite for success in Treatment, the signs and symptoms by which the injury or disease under consideiatioii may be recognised, have not only been described in each case, but caie has been taken, even at the risk of occasional repetition, to point out the several conditions with which it may be confounded, and the means of distinguishing it from each of them. The Author has appended to each Volume some Addenda on subjects which have suggested themselves during the progress of the Work ^ through the Press. In order to facilitate reference to the veiy varied subjects of which the Work treats, each Volume has been furnished with a Table of Contents, a List of Illustrations, and an extended Etymological Index. It only remains for the Author to record his acknowledgments to his friends, Messrs. Beck and Tweedy, who have given him their valuable services in his endeavour to bring this Edition to the level of modern scientific Surgery. To Mr. Beck the Author is deeply