INFLAMMA TION. 13S Warmth and Moisture are not so sen'iceablo in chronic as in acute in- flammation, and care should be taken that they be not continued for so long^ a time as to sodden the parts. An astringent or stimulant, such as licpior plumbi or spirits of n'ine, may oftcu advantageously be added to the warm application. Cold is seldom required in any but the advanced stages of chronic inflam- mation, in which there arc debihty and passive congestion of the vessels of the part. In order to remove this state of things, its application should not be continuous, but should be made twice or thrice a day, so as to occasion a sudden shock, and produce a constringent effect upon the enfeebled vessels of the part. This is best done by pumping or pouring cold water from a height, or by douching, and shoidd be followed by active friction with the hands. rriction is often of great service in some of the forms of congestive inflam- mation, by the removal of the thickening, stiffening, and indination that result. Friction may be practised either with the naked hand, or Avith some embrocation of a stimulating or absorbent character. Counter-irritants are amongst the most energetic local means that Ave possess for combating chronic inflammation. Rubefacients, in the shape of stimulating embrocations, to which absorbents, such as mercurial ointment, may often advantageously be added, are usefully employed as adjuncts to friction. By means of blisters applied either directly OA'er the inflamed part, or at a little distance from it, the surface being kept raAV and exuding by some stimu- lating appheation, effusions and those chronic structural changes that accom- pany the more advanced stages of inflammation may be remoA'ed. In the latter stages of chronic inflammation, ]Axq pyogenic counter-irritants: —issues, setons, and the cautery—^may be very advantageously employed. By these a powerful derh'ative action is induced, and chronic thickening may be melted aAvay. Issues are of especial service in chronic inflammation of the Auscera, joints, and bones, before suppuration has taken place. They should be apphed in the soft parts over the affected structiues, and may be kept open for a very con- siderable length of time. They are best made in the following manner. A piece of common adhesiA'e plaster, about two inches square, haAlng a hole of the size of a shilling cut in its middle, is fixed upon the part where the issue is to be made ; a piece of potassa fusa, about the size of half a cherry-stone, is then placed on the siuface left uncovered by the circular central apertiue, a square piece of plaster being laid over all. The patient experiences a binning pain for about tAVO hours, when it ceases ; on remoA’ing the plasters, a black slough, corresponding in size to the central aperture, Avill be found. This must be poulticed for a fcAV days, until it separates, and the raAV surface then diesscd AAuth saA'ine ointment, or stimulated by an issue-bead. heneA'er it shoAvs a tendency to heal, it may be kept open by an occasional ajAplication of the potassa fusa, • A Seton is more useful than an issue Avhen counter-iiTifration is to be apphed over very deep-seated parts. The seton may most conveniently be made in the following way (Fig. 70). A fold of skin about two inches or more in breadth