NjEVUS. 938 tumour; and the last loop should be brought out through a fold of healthy mtcgimmnt beyond the tumour. In this way we have a series of douljle loops, one toMe, and the other hlach, on each side (Fig. 38G). All the while looi)S should now be cut on one side, and the Uaclc loops on the other, leaving hanging ends of thread of corresponding colours. The tumoiu’ may now be strangulated by drawing down and knotting firmly each pair of ivhile threjids on one side, and each pair of Ucwlc ones on the other. In this way the tumour is divided into segments, each of which is strangulated by a noose and a hnot: by blade nooses and ivhite knots on one side, by while nooses and blade knots on the other (Fig. 337). Fig. 333.—Diagram of Ligature of Flat and Elougateil Nie-vus. The cicatrix resulting from the removal of a ntevus is usually firm and healthy ; but, in some instances, I have seen it degenerate into a hard warty mass requiring subsequent excision. The hgatiu’e may be used successfully at all ages. I have repeatedly tied large active ntevi in infants a month or two old without meeting with any accident. N^vi i]sr Special Situations.—Ifaevi of the Scalp are more frequenc than in any otEer situation, excejit, perhaps, the face. When occurring on those parts that are covered by hair, they are almost invariably prominent and subcutaneous : when seated on the forehead, or on the bare skin behmd the eai’s, they are often cutaneous. The ordinary subcutaneous meiTis ‘of the scalp is readily removed by the ajiphcation of the quadruple ligature. Care must be taken in passing the needles not to include the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, or troublesome cellulitis and perhaps suppuration may occim beneath that membrane. In general, it is better not to attempt the preservation of any of the integument covering the growth. It is true that, when removed, a clean white cicatrix is left which ne'^'er covers itself with hair; but this contracts, and in after-life becomes but little visible. The attempt to dissect down the skin that covers the naivus is not only troublesome, but is attended by very considerable, and possibly dangerous, hEemorrhage. Those flat naivi that are situated behind the ear are b^est treated by the free application of fuming nitric acid. Naevus of the Fontanelle is the most important variety of the scalp-