ASFIir.YIA FR02I DROWNING. 615 fatal one, from the speedy supeiTention of broncho-piiemnonia; but as it affords the only chance of life Avhen the dyspnoea is urgent, it must be done, though its performance in very young children is often attended by much difficulty, fr-om the shortness of the neck and the small size of the trachea. ASPHYXIA OB APNOEA. Asphyxia, or, as it is more correctly termed, Apnoea, may arise fr'om various causes. The follovdng classification is derived firom a table by Harley. 1. Mechanical Impediment to the Entrance of Air into the Lungs, A, From Accident: either (1) externed, as in pressiu-e on the trunk pre- venting expansion of the chest ; pressure on the throat; smothering ; injiuy of the spinal cord causing paralysis of the respiratory muscles ; penetrating V'ound of the chest, admitting air ; or (2) interned, as in obstruction of the fauces or larpix by foreign bodies, or in constriction of these parts from the application of irritating fiuids. B. From Disease; as in pressure on the trachea by an aneurism or other tumoim; oedema of the glottis ; obstruction of the air-passage by tumour ; accumulated mucus, &c. 2. Drowning. 3. Absence of Oxygen,—^nitrogen, hydrogen, or some other harmless gas being inhaled. 4. Accumulation of Carbonic Acid Gas in the Blood. 5. Inhalation of Toxic Gas or Vapour. Several of the conditions above enumerated as producing apnoea have been ah-eady described in the preceding pages ; and others will be considered when we speak of diseases of and operations on the Air-passage. In this place we vfill speak of the Surgical management of cases in which respiration has been suspended by Drovming, Hanging, and the respiration of Hoxious Gases. The general subject of Suspended Animation from these various causes cannot be discussed here, but we must briefly consider some points of practical importance in its treatment. In cases of Drowning, life is often recoverable, although the sufferer may have been in the water for a considerable time ; foi’, though immersed, he may very probably not have been siibmersed dining the whole time. The period after which life ceases to be recoverable in cases of submersion, cannot be very accurately estimated. The officers of the Royal Humane Society, who have great expeiience, state that most generally persons are not recoverable who haie been more than four or five minutes under water. In these cases, hovcver, although submersion may not continue for a longer period than this, the process of asphyxia does ; this condition not ceasing on the withcfrawal of the body fr-om the water, but continuing until the blood in the pulmonary ■vessels is aerated, either by the spontaneous or artificial inflation of the lungs. As several minutes are most commonly consumed in withdrawing the body •om the water and conveying it to land, dining which time no means can be L’T ij^to the lungs, we must regard the asphyxia as continuing 5 occupying, indeed, the time that intervenes tion submersion, and the first inspira- , V lethei artificial or spontaneous, after the removal of the body from the