109 DETERMIRA TJON. When determination of blood becomes chronic or persistent, it may lead to such changes in the appearance, structm-e, and functions of a part as materially modify its nutriti^’c and secretory acti^•ity; and then it becomes truly a disease. In these circumstances, the part is often said to be in a state of “ chronic irritation.” Symptoms.—The symptoms of determination of blood are those that wo should expect to result from an increased cpiantity of blood rushing with increased velocity through the affected textures. They are as follows :— Redness of a bright scarlet hue, swelling from tra’gescence of the vessels, heat appreciable to the Surgeon as well as to the patient, a feeling of fulness and of throbbing, with an increase in the quantity of the secretions of the part ; in fact, all those symptoms that characterise inflammation in its milder forms,, luit in a minor degree and of a less persistent character. Effects.—The effects of determination, Avhen acute, consist either in ruptine- of the affected vessels, and a natural relief by the hmmorihage which ensues, as may happen in piles after a dose of aloes has been given ; or, if a free surface or a gland be affected, in the poining forth of the secretions of the part, con- siderably augmented in quantity and, perhaps, deviating somewhat from their- normal chai’acter, as in lachrymation after the introduction of a grain of snuff' into the eye. When this effusion occurs within shut serous sacs, dropsical accumulations may ensue. The more remote effects of chi-onic determination of blood to a part consist in permanently increasing its nutritive acti’vity, and thus leading to indmation and hypertrophy. Or, determination of blood may run on to true inflam- mation. Causes.—The causes of determination of blood are threefold. First, an external iiritant directly applied to a part -will induce it, as when a gi-ain of dust is blo-\vn upon the conjunctnra. Secondly, internal iiritation, as excessive use of a part, uill determine an increased flow of blood to it! Thus,^ using the eyes much in microscopic investigations may produce redness, watering, and iiTitation of those organs. To this class of causes may also be referred the various forms of normal determination, such as erection, or the of blood from one part to another : as, when the application of cold to the ^ surface produces an increased afflux of blood to an internal organ. The vaso-motor influence of the sympathetic nerve exercises a marked control over the circulation of a part: and the relaxation of this control is. attended by determination of blood. Thus, when the svmnathetic unw. eidaxgement of the mammm in pregnancy. Thirdly, there may be repercussion yv+ V\1 /-V /I ^ L J _ _»1 -1 s-in and mucous surfaces occurs, and the temperature is increased atl these