CAUSES OF MOItTIFICATlOK 659 and after a time there is an odour of putrescence evolved, vciy commonly with an emphysematous crackling from effusion of gas into the tissues of the part. The colour of the part affected is usually of a dark pm-plish or greenish black, more or less mottled with red. This, which is unlike anything else in the system, shows that putrefactive changes have taken place in the solids and fluids of the diseased tissues, and is usually connected Avith the moist and SAvollen form of the disease. Tn the dry variety of gangi’cne the colour is often at first of a pale tallowy-white, with a mottled appearance upon the surface. The skin soon sln-iA'els, becomes diy, horny, and semi-transparent, and even- tually assumes a broAvm wrinkled appearance ; in other cases the gangTenous part is broAvn, dry, and shrivelled from the very first. These differences in the colour of the mortified part indicate con-esponding differences in the cause of the affection. In general terms, it may be stated that the dark varieties of gangi-eue are the result of destructive changes taking place in the very part itseh; or ai-e of constitutional origin; whilst the pale form of the affection ■occurs as a consequence of some obstruction to the supply of blood to the part, and is a loeal disease, influencing the constitution secondarily. But it must be borne in mind that gangvene may occiu’, that is to say, that the part may lose its A’itahty, without becoming dark, foetid, or emphysematous. These signs, though sometimes eontemporaneous with loss of vitahty, are more frequently ■consecutive to it, and indicate more than the simple' death of the part; they are proofs of putrescence havmg set in, as well as of death having occurred. Constitutional Symptoms.—These vary greatly. When the disease is stiictly local, affecting a part of but hmited extent, and perhaps of no great importance to the economy, they are not very strongly marked. If, however, the gangi-ene, although hmited, implicate important organs, as a knuckle of intestine for example, marked symptoms declare themselves. Whatever the precursory condition may be, the frill invasion of the gangrene, if it be rapid, IS always aceompanied by eonstitutional distiu’bance of an asthenic type, attended by gi-eat depression of the powers of the system, with a dull and •anxious countenance, and a feeble, quick, and easily compressible pulse ; the tongue IS brovm, and soon becomes loaded ivith sordes. When the gangrene is internal, sudden cessation of pain, with hiccup, vomiting, and tympanitic dis- tension of the abdomen, may be superadded to the symptoms, and indicate the mischief that has ocemTed. Death usually supervenes with low delirium twitchings, and epma. men the invasion of the gangrene is more gradual’ as in some of the constitutional forms affecting the lower extremities, the aSheSorT ^ m-itative fever, eventually subsiding into the “'I- Rive immediately on the part, SodZl ^1, T" -i”;™ Tims, gangi-ene of a part may hi hcfi-nr Mtahty of its tissues is destroyed by severe contusion or ^ ^ heat r H operatfoe oi by eaWfi 1 , or Dy calcification or embolism of the arteries. surgical u u 2