470 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. CHAPTEK XXIII. —I— SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. DISLOCATIONS OP THE LOWER JAW. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw are not common accidents. They occur more frequently in women than in men, and have been but very seldom met with at either extreme of life ; but Nelaton and Malgaigne relate cases occiUTing in edentulous subjects of 68 and 72 years of age, and Sir A. Cooper has seen the accident in a child, occasioned by another boy thrusting an apple mto its mouth. Those dislocations are most frequently occasioned by spasmodic action of the depressor muscles of the jaw—^by opening the mouth too widely, as in fits of laughing, of gaping, or in attempting to take too large a bite. Occa-. sionally this accident has resulted from blows or kicks upon the chin when the mouth is open, or from the violent strain upon the part in tooth-drawing, or rather in digging out stumps with an elevator. The mechanism of the dis- location is simple. When the mouth is opened, the interarticular fibro- cartfiage with the condyle glides forwards on to the articular eminence ; if this movement be continued too far, and the external pterygoid muscle contract forcibly at the same time, the condyle shps forward over the articular eminence into the zygomatic fossa, the axis of the ramus being directed obliquely back- wards, and the dislocation being thus complete. In this way both condyles may be displaced, or only one. Maisonneuve and Otto Weber, by producing dislocation on the dead body, have found that the condyle lies in front of the root of the zygoma. The coronoid process rarely reaches the malar bone, but usually lies below it, being comjiletely surrounded by the tendon of the temporal muscle. From original observation, C. Heath confiims this view of the position of the coronoid process. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is attached to the condyle, and follows its movements. The capsular ligament is stretched, but not ruptm-ed : the external lateral ligament is tense, and passes from behind forward instead of from before backward : the internal lateral and stylo- maxiUary figaments also undergo stretching, which is increased by raising the chin. The temporal muscles are stretched according to Maisonnem'e, or partly torn according to Weber. When the dislocation is Bilateral, as most frequently ha]Dpens, both condyles being displaced from the glenoid cavities, the signs are as follows. The incisor teeth of the lower jaw are separated from those of the iqiper by a marked interval, varying from half an inch to an inch and a halt; the mouth conse- quently cannot bo closed, but is kept more or less widely open. Deglutition and speech are impaired, the laliial consonants not being pronounced ; there is