331 GLUTEAL ARTERY. When the hfemon-hagc is not primary, but consecutive, or if a difPused anenrism have formed, with or without external wound, as in the case of frac- ture, Surgeons have occasionally had recoiu’se to the ligatm-e of the superficial femoral artery, with success. The artery may be tied in Scarpa’s triangle, or, what would, I think, be better in such a case, in Hunter’s canal. When ligature fails, amputation is necessarily the only resoiu’ce. In one of the suc- cessful cases S. Cooper ligatined the popliteal—a plan that has found favoin- with the French Surgeons. In another, Dupuytren tied the supeifrcial femoral for a pistol-bullet wound in the leg. The others Avere cases of diffrised aneurism, arising from a secondary hcemorrhage occurring in the course of a fracture. The subject of Wound of the Tibial Arteries as a result of fracture of the tibia, Avill be more fuUy discussed in Chapters XX. and XXI. Smsfil Circumscribed Aneurisms are occasionally met with in the foot, in consequence of Avound of one of the plantar arteries, as in operations for club-foot. If pressure have failed in preventing or curing the disease, the only coiuse left to the Surgeon is to lay the tiunoiu open, and to ligature the artery on each side in the usual way. Gluteal Auteey.—Traumatic Aneurisms of the Gluteal Artery are of less frequent occiuTence than might d priori have been imagined, from the situation of the vessel exposing it to injiuy. These aneiuisms may acquire an enormous size. In John Bell’s celebrated case, the tumom’ is said to have been of “prodigious size,” and to hax’e contained eight pounds of blood. In Syme’s case the tumoiu’ Avas as large as a man’s head at the base, occupied the whole hip, and rose into a blunt cone. The Treatment that should be adopted in these cases is to compress the aorta by means of Lister’s toimiiquet; then to lay open the tumoiu freely, tm’u out its contents, and pass a hgatiue by means of an aneiuism or mevus needle round the short trunk of the gluteal as it emerges fr’om the pehis.