FRACTURES. 360 form shape, thickest opposite the seat of injmy. Tliis gradually becomes more and moie consolidated; and, in proportion as it becomes firmer, the mobility of the fiagments lessens, and, the ends of the bone becoming smooth by the plastic deposit being adherent to and interposed between them, grating is less distinct. Irom the third to the foiu’th week the lymph has assumed a sufficient degree of firmness to keep the fragments in apposition, though the bone still yields readily at the seat of fi’acture (Fig. 139). This lymph, which is poiu’ed out not only by the periosteum and bone, but by all the soft parts in the neighbomhood of the fractm'c, gradually undergoes ossification, the bony matter being first deposited in a granular manner, but in sufficient quantity by the sixth or eighth week to unite the fracture rather firmly. The callus, which is at first soft and spongy, and differs from old bone in its microscopic as well as ordinary physical characters, gradually assimilates to old bone, both in hardness and in structiu’e, osseous corpuscles and vascular laminated canals being formed in it; and it becomes smooth on the siu’face, being invested by a dense ceUulo-fibrous periosteum, until, by the end of six or eight months, ossification is perfect. The last j)rocess in the consohdation of the fracture is the formation of new bone between the broken ends. This does not 'take place definitely until a considerable period after the ensheathing callus has been formed. BiUi’oth of Vienna, who has investigated this process, finds that cells are developed m the Haversian canals ; and that these become dilated by the gi-adual absorption of then bony walls, while the cells increase in number, and the blood-vessels form loops. Thus there is a removal of old tured TUia^ tissue, and a deposit of new plastic matter; and these processes go on at both the fractiued ends, so that the new deposits meet and unite, and ultimately become converted into bone. In some instances, however, the plastic matter, instead of being ossified, imdergoes transformation mto [)a fibrous tissue, as in the ordinary cicatrices of soft parts, giving rise to false joints, of which we shall speak hereafter. By the time that the intermediate or definitive callus is fully formed, that portion of the ensheathing or provisional callus which is not required for the jneser- vation of the permanent integvity of the bone, has been gradually removed, or has moulded itself closely to the shape and condition in which it will ultimately remain, the medullary canal having again become free, and the ends of the fr’actiu’e rounded off’. In so mpcases the medullary cavity is not restored to its former condition for a considerable time, continuing to be partially occluded by a thin septum of callus. According to Paget, the plastic matter that is effused around and between the bones urrdergoes ossification irr various ways. Those fr’actrues that mrite qirickly do so most commorrly thr’ough ossification of fibrous tissrre, in ^ mental condition, which may be either that of irrrcleated cells or nuceate blastema. A fine closely granular ossific deposit talces place in the blasterua, and gTadually forms the lanrirrjE of a delicate cancellous tissrre, t e nuc er becoming probably corrverted into bone-corpuscles. Irr other cases aganr t e union may be accomplished by the ossification of perfect fibrmrs tissue, developed from the plastic matter throwrr out round the fructruc. on again, 139.—Sec- of Frac-