388 FRACTURES. the Surg'coii Avill suffice to rebroak the bone. But should several mouths have elapsed since the consolidation, the unaided strength wiU not prove sufficient. In such cases, Butcher has successfully employed a siu’gical clamp (Fig. 140), by the prcssiu’e of Avhich the bone may be broken across at its displaced angle, even though the faulty union is of several months’ duration. Should the consolidation of the fractm’e be too firm to admit of re-bending, or re-breaking, subcitiamous osteotomy may be employed in some cases with advantage. The best instrument for use is Adams’s narrow-bladed saw. With this I have divided the fibula in badly set Pott’s fracture, where the bone had united at an angle pointing inwards, and thus throA\ung the outer edge of the foot upwards. The same operation may be applied to other bones, especially to those of the fore-arm. A bone which does not appear to have been very skilfully sot, and which presents a certain amount of deformity when the splints or apparatus covering it are removed, may gradually regain its proper shape if left to itself. This it does by the muscles of the limb moulding the callus whilst still somewhat soft and yielding into a proper shape. The callus may be quite strong enough to bear the weight and to maintain the length of the limb in its full integiity after the removal of aU apparatus, and yet be sufficiently yielding to become slowly and gradually shaped by the action of the muscles of the limb when they are left untrammelled by bandages. But it more commonly happens that a limb which, when taken out of the splints at the proper period, appears to be straight and of good length, gradually yields imder the weight of the body and the strain of the muscles : ■ so that, at the end of a few weeks, great and most unsightly deformity occurs. In these cases the Singeon is often unduly blamedand to his imskilfidness is attributed that displacement which, in reality, is due to the faulty character of the callus. It must be remembered that there is every degree of firmness of the callus, from that which is of noimal consistence to^^that which is quite unable to support the weight of the lunb or body, and that yields more or less quickly under the pressure to which it is subjected. . , i-i.i Delayed Union.—Occasionally, more particularly in cases of fractine of the femur, tibia, and humerus, the union between the broken fragments is Mayetl several weeks beyond the usual period of perfect consolidation. This arises, in the majority of cases, from constitutional debility, rather than from local causes. Several cases of delayed union have been recorded in which repam readily took place after the employment of merciny. Indeed, in sypFihtic subje^s the constitutional taint should always be treated. A not unfieqiient cause of delayed union is “mededing” with the fractine, c^nging tus removing splints or frequently testing the sohdity. men it is found . heeSffinof six or eight weeks after the occmrence of simple ftnctine thatTLalliis is still yielding, the general health should change of air, &c., and the limb securely put up in ^^arched o plater ot . bandte^cs Indeed, I believe that delayed union is much less likelj to occiii oanaa^^cs. ii , treated by the starohed bandage, and patients who have from the first been tiearou Lwed to more about, than in those uho have been oouflued to bod oi .athci to the house in the ordinary way.