752 TUMOURS. Fibromata of Glands arc rare, l)eiii(>- almost confinotl to tlio mammm. Painful Subcutaneous Tubercle is a peculiar form of fibroma, found beneath the skin, usually of one of the extremities, and very rarely of tlic trunli. It is seldom inoie than half an inch in diameter, and is so small as scarcely to cause a prominence on the surface, yet it gives rise to pain of the most intense and agonizing character, usually called forth by some slight touch or pressiu’e, and then lasting perhaps for an horn- or more. These tumours are not neuro- mata ; at any rate, no connection has as yet been traced between them and nerve-filaments. They are by far more ft-equent in females than in males. Fibroid Tumour of the Uterus.—These timioiu’s, as before stated, arc not pure fibromata. In addition to the fibrous tissue, such as is found in pure fibromata, they present numerous long spindle-shaped cells, which were shown by A^irchow to be involuntary muscular fibre cells, and consequently these tumours arc classed by many-writers under “ myomata ” or “ myofibromata.” In the tumours of old women these muscle-cells frequently undergo atrophy, and the tumour then presents the aiDpearance of a pure fibroma. Fibroid tumours of the uterus either project into the cavity of the organ, forming uterine polypi, or into the ca-rity of the pelvis. They are liable to softening and ulceration, accompanied by much hemorrhage when they assume the poly- poid form. Under any circumstances they frequently calcify, and occasionally, as above stated, soften, forming enormous cysts. Somewhat analogous tumom-s are found in the prostate gland in the male. The Treatment of fibromata is in a great measure palliative ,* but when they are so situated as to admit of removal, as in the neck, lower jaw, antrum, mamma, or subcutaneous tissue, they should always be extirpated. Tumours closely resembling fibromata in naked eye appearance and con- sistence, have been kno"\^Ti to reciu’ after removal with much tendency to ulceration, sloughing, and hmmoiThage. They may even give rise to secon- dary deposits in internal organs. These tumours mil always be found on microscopic examination to present the signs of one of the forms of sarcoma to be described hereafter. Pure fibromata are invariably benignant. c. Enchoiidroma — Chondroma — Cartilaginous Tumours.— These tumours have been carefully studied by Muller, and investigated by Paget. They form an exceedingly interesting group, being of comparatively frequent occm-rence, and sometimes assuming a large size. In stmctiu’e, enchondroma may closely resemble normal cartilage (Fig. 279), either of the hyaline or fibrous variety. The cells vary much in size and shape. In the most typical form they are large (-^ to inch), round, oval, or polygonal in shape, and containing a single large nucleus and nucleolus, and sometnnes inclosed in a capsule as in normal cartilage. Occasionally the cells are found to be iiTegular in shape and branched, the processes of one cell communicating with those of another, as in a myxoma. This form re- sembles the cartilage normally found only in the cuttle-fish. The matrix may be hyaline, as in normal foetal or articidar cartilage, or fibrillatcd. It varies mrrch irr derrsity, occasiorrally beirrg so soft as to give the trrmour a false serrse of fiirctuation. This softrress is rrsrrally fourrd irr the more rapidly gTO-wing varieties. The tumour may corrsist of a sirrgle rrrass of cartilage, or may be composed of inrrumerablo lobules, borrrrd together by a ascirlar barrds of