725 POST MORTEM APPEARANCES. about SC to 48 hours the patient’s temperature rises perhaps to 103° Fahr. or 104° Fahr., and all the signs of severe fever set in. On looking at the wound the stitches will be found to be tight, and on removing one the serous fluid will flow out, having a distinct odour of decomposition, and the fever will then oradually subside. Here the decomposing fluid will have been pent up at high pressiu’e in a cavity surrounded on all sides by the unclosed lymphatics, which have been divided in the wound, and the experiment of injection is as accurately performed as if done Avith a syringe under the skin of a dog. It merely recpiires that the quantity of fluid injected should be sufficient, or that the susceptibility of the individual should be great enough, to convert such a case as the above into one of septictemia. In the same way, there is reason to believe that the fluid portions of pus pent up at any degree of pressiu’e in a caA'ity may be absorbed. If the jdus be healthy, the effect will be merely to produce the ordinary febrile distiu’bance accompanying such conditions, but if unhealthy or decomposing, it may give rise to intense blood-poisoning. There is no reason to believe that the entrance of pus corpuscles into the blood plays any part in the process—as originally supposed by Arnott, Hmiter, Berard, and Sedillot. It Avill be seen, therefore, from Avhat has been said aboA^e, that in the opinion of many modern pathologists no sharp line can be drawm between ordinary siu’gical or traumatic fever and septicmmia—just as Sander- son has shoAvn that no sharp line can be drawn between inflammations, the products of which possess decided infective properties, and those which do not; and no one at present can say exactly where one ends and the other begins. Briefly then, to sum up our present knowledge of pymrnia it may be stated that, 1. The metastatic abscesses can in many cases be distinctly traced to the results of embolism ; the embola having started fr’om softening clots in the veins of the part from Avhich the disease originated, and being imj)regnated A7ith some poison which causes them to excite acute inflammation whereA’er they lodge. This poison may be in some cases something specific, of which Ave have no knowledge at ju’esent, or it may consist of the products of ordinary decomposition. 2. The other symptoms of pyaemia are fully accounted for by the entrance of J;he same poisons into the system in a fluid or minutely subdivided form. o. The most characteristic feature of the fluids which possess these iii- ectiA^e properties is the irresence of minute organisms, bacteria, microzymes, whence these originate, or what part they take in the process of infection, is stiU a disputed point. 4. Cases occur in which embolism forms no part of the affection, and n eis m Avhich embolism is all important and blood-poisoning comparatively aecon aiy. The former are included by some Surgeons under the names of sep icccmia and ichoiTha3mia, and the latter under the names of pyremia or «m 0 aemia. In this country, hoAVCA^er, it is more common to extend the name pyaemia to both conditions. the abore brief eketoh of the more P rtant pathological conditions Avhich constitute the pyremic state the ™ ’ body usually changes rapidly after death, decomposition setting in at an