THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD. 203 edges of the wound as far as possible from any direct contact with the carl)ohc uckl in the ch-essings, Avhich Avonld infallibly cause sufficient irritation to produce suppuration. The small quantity of carbolic acid left m the Avound Avhen it is closed, is so temporary in its action as scarcely to require considera- tion. It is partly washed away by the serous discharge and partly absorbed, so that probably in a few hours, or perhaps less, the deep parts of the wound are free fr-om any trace of the acid. To protect the raAV surface, the Avound is covered Avith so-caUed “ protective.” This is simply a piece of thick green oiled silk brushed over Avith one part of dextrine to two of powdered stai'ch in IG of cold Avater solution of carbolic acid, and allowed to dry. Before being- applied, it is dipped in a solution of carbolic acid (1 to 40). It is in itself jx;rfectly uniiritating, and is almost imperv’ious to carbolic acid, so that, as soon as the small quantity of the acid adhering to its under siuface has been absoi’bed by the skin or granulations beneath, the AA’ound is almost absolutely excluded from any direct action of the iiritating antiseptic. The protecti\'e should extend about one inch on each side of the wound, and over this should be jjlaced a single layer of the “ antiseptic gauze,” which has been dipped in the 1 to 40 solution, and squeezed as dry as possible. If much discharge is to be expected, tAvo or three layers of wet gauze may be employed. Over this, and extending at least six inches on every side of the Avoimd, is placed a dressing of dry antiseptic gauze, folded eight layers thick. If it be impossible to make it extend far enough round the Avomid, the number of layers must be increased. Between the tAvo most superficial layers is placed a piece of thin Mackintosh cloth, so that the discharge may not soak through at one spot and decompose, but may be evenly diflfrised over the whole dressing. The cloth should be dipped in the 1 to 40 solution before being used. Over aU is placed a bandage composed of antiseptic gauze, seciu-ed at several points by pins. Oare must be taken not to pmictiu’e the Mackintosh cloth AAuth the pins. The spray must not cease for a moment till the woimd is seciu-ely covered Avith the dressing, and care must be taken to direct the spray actually on the AVOund, and not, as may happen, merely on the back of the gauze as it is being ,applied. In changing the dressing, the same rules must be obseiwed, and the womid noA'cr for an instant exposed to A'iew except under a spray of carbolic acid and Avater. "While preparing the neAV di'essings, to save the trouble of working the spray, the Avound should be covered A\ith a “ guard,” as aboA'e described. I he same piece of Mackintosh cloth may be used aU through the case, if it be washed at eA'ery dressing in carbolic acid and water. It should be examined CAery time to see that the Avaterproof layer has not peeled off) and that it is free fr’om pin-holes. The di’essing must be repeated at fii’st eA'ery day, till the serous discharge has ceased, and then eA'ery second, third, or foiu-th day, according to the amount of discharge. If it be thought necessai’y to apply stiapping to the wound, it may be done under the spray, by dipping the plaster in a one part of carbolic acid and Avater (1 to 20), to Avhich is added an equal quantity of boiling water. Although attention to detail is of gi'cat importmice, ® m description the dressing may seem complicated and tedious, its applica- lon to a wound such as that of an amputation, does not take more than fiA'c washing, syi-inging, and examining ligatures, &c., are saved, ot more troublesome than the ordinary mode of treatment.