GENERAL REAL ARKS ON OPERATIONS. n '’f “"dittons oxist to empty the lesciibocl. riio same plan is also better employed in cases of cancer or sarcoma, m which the danger of dislodging- particles and driving them ito the cncnlation would be very considerable. It must be remembered n applying the India-rnbber band that enormous pressm-e is easily obtained by a few turns one over the other, so much so, that in situations in ivhich the chief nerves lie very close to the bones, as in the aim, symptoms of paralysis lasting some weeks are recorded by Langenbeck as ha^n’iig resulted from its use. The advantages of the bloodless method in operations on diseased bones and joints and in the removal of tumours are even greater than in amputations. Whatever form of tourniquet is employed, it is to be taken off as soon as all the vessels which can be- seen have been tied ; the assistant, however, if oozing continue after all jetting vessels have been tied, may arrest it by exposure to the air, or by poming a stream of cold water upon the woimd. In some cases the pressure of a pad and bandage, and in others that of a sand- bag, unll arrest this bleeding ; but in the ma- jority of instances the position and coaptation of the flaps ivill sulflce. The Sutures, if any are needed, should be introduced at the time of the operation, whilst the patient is still imder chlorofoim. If the wound be dressed at once they are tied in the usual way, and the edges thus brought neatly together. If the dressing of the wound be deferred for a few hoins, they should be left to hang loose, and not be di-aivn tight until the wound is dressed. In this ivay the patient Fia. 4.-Lister’.s jiethod. is savcd the pain, which is always much com- plained of, of introducing the sutines at the time of the dressing. They are generally best made of dentist’s tudst, of moderate thickness, so as not to cut out readily. Silver or unoxydisable iron wire forms an excellent material for sutures in the plastic operations, and in many other cases in Avhich the silk thread is apt to in-itate. In some cases, Avhcre much tension is exercised, or great accm-acy required, hare-lip j)ins are jncferable to ordinary sutines. Dressing of the Wound.—There is a local as ivell as a constitutional hygiene. For the proper healing of a ivound it is not enough that the general sanitary conditions of the patient be scrupulously attended to. There is a hygiene of the ivound as Avell as of the body that requires scrupulous care. If this be neglected, not only ivill the healing of the wound be retarded, but the