226 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. There is ercry reason to belioA’o that warfare in modern times is fully as clestructiA-e to life as it was foianerly, if not much more so ; not in the propor- tion of the killed to the ninnher of combatants engaged, but in relation to the recoveries among the Avonnded. This at first sight appears remarkable, Avhen Ave consider the great advances that have of late years been made in surgical treatment and in sanitary aiTangements. But it is readily explained by the facts that the size and form of the projectiles noAV used, and the force Avith Avhich they are driven, are such as to render the wounds inflicted by them infinitely more destructive than they used to be ; and that the advance in surgical treat- ment is thns more than neutralised by the more deadly natime of the injuries, AA'hilst the enormous number of men engaged has yielded so large a proportion of sick and AVOiAiided that, after the first feAV weeks, the sanitary aiTangements haA'e hitherto broken down under the pressime, and secondary septic diseases haA'e committed the most frightful ravages. The complete siu’gical statistics of the gi’eat Franco-Grerman war haA*e not yet been made public ; but, so far as can be ascertained, there can be but httle doubt that the results of excisions and amputations, as well as those attending the treatment of compound fractiu’es, were far less satisfactory than in other recent wars. Treatment.—The slighter and pimely superficial gun-shot injiuies generally merely require to be treated on the ordinary principles that guide ns in th& management of contusions and larcerations generally. When they affect the- head, chest, or abdomen, they present so many circumstances of special im- portance, that we must defer the consideration of them mitil we treat of injiuies of those regions. In aU cases of gun-shot wound, whether amputation be ultimately required or not, certain immediate attentions are necessary in order to place the sufferer in some degree of comfort and safety. Thus, if a person be shot through the fleshy part of a limb, no bone or vessel of importance being injiued, the part should be covered AAuth Avet cloths, and placed in an easy position. ^ If there be abundant venous haimorrhage, the limb should be raised ; and if this do not ai-rest the bleeding, a compress should be used. If the heemoiThage be arterial,^ a toiuTiiquet must be applied. So, also, a tourniquet shoxdd be employed if there be rapid dripping of blood. If a limb be smashed, or torn away, a toiu-niquet should be applied very tightly upon the stump, Avhich must be covered up in wet cloths. ^ The pres- siu-e of the tourniquet aatII not only arrest haemorrhage, but^ aviU stay that spasmodic quivering of the muscles of the mangled hmb which is so painful to- the sufferer. , ^ r j If the head or neck be womided, cold wet pledgets should be applied, and hfemorrhage, whether venous or arterial, should be arrested by pressine Avith the fingers. . . , ., If the chest be shot through, the patient should be laid on the mimed side, and cold employed. If emphysema occm-, or if air freely pass through the Avound, a body-bandage must be tightly applied. _ If the abdomen be Avoiuided, the patient should be laid on the iniimed side if the aperture be lateral; if it be central, on his back, with the knees bent over a log or knapsack, or other support. If the intestine protrude, it must be Avashed and retimied at once.