CELLULAR ERYSIPELAS. 695 infu-m, or in yomig children. The immediate danger is always greatest when the head is affected, from the extension of the disease to the membranes of the brain, and the supervention of arachnitis. The remote danger from the effects of suppuration of aa-colar tissue, necrosis of bones, and inflammation of the joints, is greatest when the lower extremities are the seat of erysipelas. A ^•al•iety of the cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas has been described as (Edema- tons Erysipelas. By this is meant not merely the effusion into the areolar tissue which occurs in all the varieties of the disease, but a peculiar fonn, spe- cially marked by oedema of the areolar tissue, with less inflammation of the skin than usual. There is much swelling, Avhich pits deeply on pressure, with but little pain or tension, and but moderate redness of the skin ; the constitu- tional symptoms are less marked than in the other varieties of the disease ; it is principally met noth in old people, or in persons of a dropsical tendency, in whom it ocems especially about the legs, scrotum, or labia, sometimes giving rise, by the effusion of a sero-plastic fluid, to permanent and solid enlai-gement. 3. Cellular Erysipelas, or, as it is often termed. Diffuse Inflammation ■of the Cellular Tissue, or Cellulitis, has been particularly described by Duncan, Arnott, Lawrence, and Nunneley. It always arises frrom a wound or injury, often of an apparently tririal character, and most commonly affects'the subcutaneous areolar membrane, though occasionally it extends to the subapo- neurotic tissue, and then is a more severe and dangerous affection. Though commonly arising as a consequence of ordinary injiuies, it is especially apt to follow those in which there has been any inoculation of animal poisons, as fr'om dissection-wounds, the stings of insects, and the bites of venomous reptiles. In whatever way arising, it is characterised by the rapidity and extent of the sloughing of the affected tissue, and by gxeat depression of the powers of the constitution. That the diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue, whether it be limited to a finger, or implicate the areolar tissue of half the body, is a Tariety of erysipelas affecting this textiue primarily, and the skin secondarily, there can be no doubt. The points of resemblance between cellulitis tmd erysipelas have been well shown by Nunneley. Not only are the local effects precisely the same in the two diseases—the swelling, tension, infiltration of pus, and formation of gangrenous shreds and sloughs ; but the constitutional symptoms, though varying peihaps in degree, present no difference as to character. The results also are identical, there being the same local impair- ment of structure, the same tendency to involve parts at a distance, and to the formation of secondary abscesses. These two forms of disease occm- in the same constitutions, in the same states of the atmosphere, and in the same situation; one may produce the other; and, lastly, the same treatment is required for both. Local Sifjns.—There are great swelling, tension, and pain in the hmb, which feels braAvny in some parts, oedematous in others. The skin is slightly reddened in patches, has a mottled appearance, and speedily runs into blackish sloughs. le extent to which the disease may spread varies greatly ; when once it has set m, it commonly runs rapidly up the Avhole of a limb, extending also to the 0 the tmiik ; in other cases, its violence appears to be principally expended at a distance from the seat of injury ; thus, in a case of a punctured