723 ICHORRHJEMIA OR SEPTICAEMIA. most distinguished, Burdon Sanderson, Billroth, 0. Weber, Hiieter, Savory, and Davaine. The results of their laboiu's may be summed up as follo-\vs. The injection of any fluid into the blood of an animal, even pure distilled water, will give rise to a temporary elevation of temperature. The injection ■of fluids derived from a part in a state of acute inflammation always raises the temperatm’e considerably, but if the inflammation be of an unhealthy character the effects are much more marked. In the same way, severe effects may be produced by the injection of carefully filtered infusions of organic matter in a state of decomposition. The milder effects produced by these injections con- sist simply of a brief attack of fever Avith its usual symptoms, thirst, anorexia, high temperature, and quick pulse, and when these have passed away the animal is as well as before. The more severe effects are of two kinds, acute and chronic. The acute are characterised by rigors, high fever, diarrhoea, vomiting, acute internal inflammations, as peritonitis, pleiu’isy, or pericarditis, and in some cases by metastatic abscesses and by patches of diffuse cellulitis. In extreme cases, the animal may die collapsed in a few minutes before fever ■can declare itself. Every stage may be produced at wiU between these cases •of most mahgnant blood-poisoning and the mildest febrile disturbance, by A’arying the natm’e of the fluid and the conditions of the experiment. The •chronic effects produced, siqDposing the animal to escape the acute pyaemic condition, are identical in eA’ery way Avith tuberculosis, consisting of an over- growth of the lymphatic tissues. The effects produced in these experiments vary, 1st, vdth the nature of the fluid injected ; 2nd, Avith the quantity in- jected ; 3rd, Avith the mode of injection ; and 4th, Avith the animal experi- mented on. 1. TlieJSature of the Poison. Dr. Biu’don Sanderson has shoAvn that the fluids capable of producing the most potent effects are in aU cases characterised by the presence of minute organisms variously spoken of as bacteria, micro- •z^es, or micrococci, and that the effect produced varies to a certain extent Avuth the appearance of these organisms. The part Avhich they play in the process •of infection is at present undetermined. That they can appear in the products •of subcutaneous inflanmation which have never been exposed to the external air IS certain, but this is no proof of their having been generated at the part, as they may ha^ come from Avithout and found their way to the inflamed spot by the blood. There is no evidence to show that the poison need be of any specific character, like that of an acute specific disease. It has been abundantly proved by experiment that all the symptoms of septicaemia or blood-poisoning may e pio need by the injection of simple albuminous matter in a state of •lhooldT^-^°^’ f necessary that the fluid injected •effee s or putridity; in fact, the most malignant T- • - n . by fluids free from decomposition, and their effects DrCdr decomposes. Thus, to take a single example boiled and cooled, nito the peritoneum of a guinea-pig. The fluid S J ofTspr^ produced Avas injected into the peritoneal caAntv ol five and "" b-nea-pig to ano^thei-r a S J-imp 111 ^ ®*^nie of the fluid from the last guinea-pig into a doo- Tlie t.mo the first an.^al survived ,vas about twcuty-,„ru- hours P but in eii. s^e! 3 A 2