460 DISLOCATIONS. come this contraction. The amount of resistance due to muscular contraction may be measured by the efforts produced by antesthetising the patient. So much of the resistance as is overcome by putting the patient under the in- fluence of ether or chloroform, is due to muscular contraction. All that which continues after this, is due to purely mechanical causes connected with the arrangement of the osseous and ligamentous structures of the joint, or with the injury inflicted on them. The resistance offered by the muscles is of several ditterent kinds, and is dependent on different causes. The influence exercised by the patient’s will, and the tonic contraction or passive force exerted by the shortened and displaced muscles, undoubtedly often offer great obstacles to reduction. But more serious than these by far is the reflex or spasmodic action, w'hich the patient is unable to control, and Avhich can only be overcome by force, by faintness, or by the paralysing influence of aneesthetics. The longer the dislocation is left unreduced, the more powerful does the resisting force become ; being less at the moment of the accident and immediately after- wards, than at any subsequent period. Hence reduction should be attempted as soon as possible after the occurrence of the accident; and, if the patient be seen at once, the bone may sometimes be replaced without much difficulty by the unaided efforts of the Singeon. Thus Liston reduced a dislocated hip by his own endeavoiu’s immediately after the accident occm'red. If a few hours have elapsed, the muscular tension becomes so great that special measmes must be adopted in order to diminish it; and if some weeks or months have been allowed to pass by, the dislocation may have become iireducible, partly owing to permanent secondary contraction of the muscles which have been shortened, wLich it is impossible to overcome, but chiefly to the matting together of the stuTounding tissues, and the formation of adhesions about the head of the bone. The muscular resistance is greatest when an attempt is made at reduction by forcible traction in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the limb, and parallel to the coiu’se of the muscles. In the reduction of a recent dislocation, advantage may sometimes be taken of the occurrence of faintness, or of the patient’s attention being distracted to other matters, the muscles being then taken, as it Avere, by sinprise, and. the bone readily slipping into its place. Such aids as these, hoAveAnr, caimot be depended upon ; and muscular relaxation should be induced by the administra- tion of cliloroform or ether. By the employment of these valuable agents, the muscles of the strongest man may be rendered so perfectly flaccid and poAverless in a few minutes as to offer no opposition whatever to reduction, AA'^hich is thus AA'onderfuUy simplified and facihtated. In no department, indeed, of practical siu’gery has the administration of anesthetic agents been attended by more advantageous results than in this. Mechanical contrivances are much less frequently used for the reduction of dislocation, since the employment of anesthetics, than formerly. It is, how- ever, occasionally necessary to employ apparatus calculated to flx the articidar surface from which the bone is dislocated, and to di-aw doAim or disentangle the displaced bone to such an extent that it may be replaced on the sm-face from which it has escaped. If the patient have not been anaesthetised, it will be fomid that, Avhen the bone is well brought doAim by the extending force so as to be opposite its articulation, and disentangled from osseous points upon which