TUMOURS. 8oo not acquainted with any case of cancer, either from my own ohservatious, from conversation with other Surgeons, or from published statements, tliat affords satisfactory evidence of cure by an internal remedy. It is true that many so- called cases of cancer have, at various times, been stated to haA'e been cured by different medicines ; but it must be borne in mind that, in a less advanced state of pathological knoAvlcdge than exists at the present day, almost all hard chronic tumours were called “ scirrhous,” and many intractable ulcers “ can- cers ” ; mistakes which arc not unfrequently committed, and sometimes un- avoidably so, even with the improved means of diagnosis that we at present possess. Not one of the many remedies that have been vaunted as being specific in this disease, and by Avhich cures have been stated to haA'e been effected, has retained the confidence of the profession, or has, on further trial, corresponded in its effects to the statements of those Avho introduced it. I therefore think it but waste of time to discuss the supposed advantage to be derived from hemlock, sanguinaria, condurango, iron, arsenic, iodine, cod-liver oil, or lemon-juice, in the treatment of cancer. But though cmutNe treatment can effect nothing in these cases, much may be effected in cases that do not admit of operation toAvards retarding the progress of the disease by proper Palliative Treatment. With this view, the diet should be mild, nutritious, easy of digestion, unstimulating, and sufficient to support the strength under the wearing influence of pain and discharge ; and the preparations of opium, of conium, and of hyoscyamus, must be freely administered in order to reheve the patient’s sufferings, and to procure rest. The Local Means are those upon which the Surgeon justly places the chief reliance in these affections. The PaUiative Local Treatment consists in the use of means calculated to retard the growth of the tumour, to lessen the pain attending it, and to remove the feetor that arises if it be ulcerated. In order to prevent the rapid extension of the tumour, it is of gveat importance to subdue all local excitement within and around it; in proportion to the amount of action existing in the part, the disease Avill usually extend Avith rapidity ; any inflammatory condition of the neighboming tissues being espe- cially prejudicial in this respect. Hence, in these circumstances, the occasional application of a few leeches Avill often be of considerable service. No counter- irritation, however, ought to be employed in the vicinity of the cancerous imrt, as it only excites action in and aroiuid it, and hastens the process of ulceration; the skin especiaUy is apt to become rapidly infiltrated by the cancerous disease If. if irritated bv tlie annhcation of iodine and other stimulants. It the the vieAV of supporting the integuii freeze the tumoiu’ more or less com; ipletely, has been recommended by J. Arnott; retard the groAvth or lessen the pain, but there ;aii be considered as a curative agent. AVben