6a6 INJURIES OF THE GUEST. (jltusioii, unattended by any expectoration of ’olood, external liiEinorrliage, or (jtlier positive sign of wound of tbe lung. The blood in these cases would ju'obably be infiltrated into the loose tissue of the lung around and above the wound, Avhere it would coagulate so as to offer a barrier against its escape into the bronchi, while it was being poured out where least resistance was offered to it—viz., at the point of injury in the pleura. The symptoms of this internal hmmorrhage, Haemothorax, are those that generally characterise loss of blood, such as coldness and pallor of the surface, small weak pulse, and a tendency to collapse with increasing dyspnoea. The more special signs consist in an inability to lie on the uninjiued side, ndth, in extreme cases, some bulging of the intercostal spaces, and an ecchymosed condition of the posterior part of the wounded side of the chest. The most important signs, however, are those that are furnished by auscultation. As the blood guavitates towards the back of the chest, between the posterior wall and the diaphragm, there will be gradually increasing dulness on percussion in this situation, noth absence of respiratory murmur ; the other portions of the lung, however, admitting air freely. An ecchymosis of the loins described by Valentin, and noticed by Larrey and others, occasioned by the filtration of the blood through the Avound or rent in the pleiua costalis into the areolar tissue of the chest, has been looked upon by some Siu’geons as pathognomonic of hsemothorax ; its importance, however, is secondary to that of the auscultatory signs, as in many cases it has not been met udth, and in others of non-penetrating wounds of the chest it has ocemued. 2. Emphysema, or the infiltration of air into the areolar tissue of the body, and Pneumothorax, or the accumulation of air in the cavity of the pleura, are aiot imfrequent complications of a wounded limg, although not by any means invariably met with. These accidents more commonly occur when the external wound is small and oblique, than when it is large and direct, and often happen in those cases in which the lung is punctiued by a fractiued rib, without there being any external wound. In the majority of cases, emphy- sema and pneumothorax occm- together, but either may be met with sepai’atelj. The mechanism of traumatic emphysema is most commonly as foffoAys. The costal pleura being wounded, and the lung injured, a quantity of air is sucked into thie plemul sac at every inspiration, either through the external wound, or if none exist, from the hole in the limg, thus gnnug rise to pneumo- thorax. At every expiration, the air that thus accumulates in the p eura sac being compressed by the descent of the walls of the chest, is pumped into the areolar tissue around the edges of the wound ; and if this be oblique aiic valvular, being unable to escape wholly thi-ough it, it finds its way at each succeeding respiration further into the large areolar planes, fiijt about the trmik and neck, and eventually, perhaps, into those ol the body geneially. Thouo-h this is the way in which emphysema usually occurs, it may Lo octasid otte™. Thus, fov instauco, I had o.« u.ute my -ao Avho had extensive emphysema of the areolar tissue of the tniii v i ^ tured ribs but udthout any pneumothorax, the lung hai mg lecn u oiii c rrUuil.- it -s atta^hi to tho avails of tho chest the air having passed through them into the areolar tissue of the bod), u.tU