AXTISEPTJG TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. iS5 tlio cavity, tension will be again produced, and, acting as an irritant, wdl cause IVesli suppuration; but if the discharge be allowed to drain away it will rapidly vliminish, and the sac of the abscess will be obliterated by the ordinary processes of contraction and cicatrisation. If dead bone exist at the bottom of the ca\ity of the abscess, the reparative process, iin'olving absorption of the dead bone, will be vciy slow, the serous discharge often continuing for months without change, nnlcss allowed to decompose, w'hen it will rapidly become pmulent and enoimously increased in quantity.—5. In the ordinary method of opening an abscess, although the irritation due to tension is removed, a fresh initant is admitted in the shape of the decomposition of the discharges, winch in the mildest cases will seriously delay the closing of the cavity of the abscess, while in many, such as large psoas or lumbar abscesses, it may lead to such an amomit of constitutional distmbance as to be rapidly fatal.—G. The cause of decom- position is not the admission of the gases of the air, but the presence of organic ^erms w'hich are constantly floating in the atmosphere, and whose acthity is readily destroyed by the presence in the air of a moderately strong vapour of carbolic acid, sulphm-ous acid, or some other volatile antiseptic. Lister, there- fore, in liis method of treatment aims at the following objects :—1st. The fr'ec opening of the abscess, so as completely to evacuate its contents, and to allow the free drain of discharges afterwards—that is to say, the complete removal of tension and the prevention of its retmm ; 2nd, the entire exclusion from the opening into the abscess of ordinary air unmixed with a strong vapour of carbolic acid or other volatile antiseptic body; and 3rd, the absorption by some porous material impregnated with a pow^erful antiseptic, of all discharges as soon as they escape from the wound—in short, the prevention of decomposition in the sac of the abscess, or in the discharges lying about the W’ound. The antiseptic w'hich Lister has foimd the most convenient for these pin-poses is carbolic acid. The treatment requires great care in management, and must be considered with minute attention to all its details. The materials required are a solution of carbolic acid in water (1 to 40), and a solution of olive oil (1 to 10), antisejotic gauze, composed of a coarse gauze impregnated with ' a solution of carbolic acid in parafiin and resin, and a protective consisting of oiled silk coated with copal varnish, and covered with a thin layer of a mixtm-c of dextrine and starch. The object of these various materials is as follows. The ivatery solution is used wLen the action required is not of long dui’ation, but wiien a vapour of carbolic acid is intended to be kept up round an open wound, the watery solution A'ery readily parting with its carbolic acid. It may be used in tw'o w^ays, either as a spray blowm upon the part from an ether-spray apparatus, or by means of a piece of linen rag soaked in the lotion and laid over the open wound while the more permanent dressings are being- prepared. The oily solution retains its carbolic acid much more firmly, and may be used w-here the action is required to be more prolonged, as in the fr-esh opening of an abscess Avhere the rush of pus might wash the watery solution out ol the piece of rag placed over the w-ound. It is also used for greasino- the ptll tS round fcllO n,llSf*.PRSl OKnor*in1l\r rlivfir r\v liniTT’- X* • ^ the carbolic acid much It. L,ci\iLyui LUC iiusccHb. une antmpic gauze retains more firmly than the oily solution, continuing to give