SPRAINS. 345 blood, Mmarthrosis. The blood so effused undergoes absorption after a time, without leading to any inconvenience. The Treatment should be actively anti-inflammatory, nuth complete rest of the part. In a later stage, an elastic bandage, cold douches, and friction, are useful. In some cases the bnrsa, situated in the neighbourhood of a joint, is seriously bruised, and becomes inflamed: in consequence, there are often troublesome suppuration and some sloughing. When this takes place, free incision into the inflamed part, in addition to the ordinai-y anti-inflammatory treatment, will afford speedy and effectual relief to the patient. Spraixs.—When a joint is tivisted violently so that its ligaments are either much stretched or partially torn, though there be no displacement of the osseous siu’face, it is said to be sprained. These injuries are exceedingly painful and troublesome in their consequences. They most frequently occm’ to the wrists and ankle-joints. The pain is very severe, and often sickening ; and the sprain is rapidly followed by swelling and inflammation of the joint and investing tissues, often very chronic and tedious. As the inflammation subsides, stiffness and pain in using the part continue for a considerable length of time, and are in some cases followed by a kind of rigidity and wasting of the limb. In individuals of a rheumatic or gouty habit of body, the inflamma- tion of the joint consequent on the sprain is often most tedious and chronic, and wiU only yield to appropriate constitutional treatment; and occasionally in strumous subjects, destructive disease of the joint is induced. Treatment.—If the sprain be slight, rubbing the part with a stimulating- embrocation, and giving it the support of strapping or a bandage, are aU that need be done. But if it be at all severe, more active measures must be had recourse to. These must vary according to the condition of the joint when the Surgeon sees the patient ; but they are aU conducted on the principles of securing perfect rest, and subduing inflammatory action. If the Surgeon see the patient immediately on the occurrence of the accident, or before swelling to any great extent has occiuTed, the best plan is to strap up the joint very fli-mly -with long strips of plaster, over which a starched bandage may be apphed. This method of treatment, which comprises rest, perfect immobihty, and compression of the joint, puts it into the best possible condition for the repair of the injured articular structm-es, and for the prevention of consecutive inflammation. Should inflammation with much swelling have set in, this must be subdued by keeping the joint for several hours in cold water, or well moistened with an evaporating lotion, or wet by means of irrigation or covered vith ice-bags. Should this not check the inflammation, leeches may be freely apphed : and, when the swelling has somewhat subsided, the joint should be supported vhth an elastic roller and plasters, a starched bandage, or leather splints. In the more advanced stages, when pain and stiffness alone are left, it should be well douched -with cold water twice a day, and afterwai’ds rubbed or kneaded with soap-liiiimeut, until its usual strength and mobility are restored. This, however, very commonly does not occm- in sprains of the knee and ankle for many weeks ; a degree of stiffness, combined Avith inflam- mation, being left until the stretched and lacerated ligaments have regained their normal condition. Wounds of Joints.—A joint is known to be wounded when synovia