TUMOUIiS. 786 fat grannies in the centre, snrronnclod by zones of gi-annles, resulting from the degeneration of other cells. Cells again may be seen in the process of under- going colloid degeneration. A globule of colloid matter first appears pushino- the nucleus to one side ; afterwards the nucleus undergoes a similar degenera^ tion ; and finally the cell bursts and disappears, leaving behind it only a few gi’annlcs (Fig. 308). True colloid cancer is merely a degeneration of scin-hus or cncephaloid. Many other tumours have been described in former times as colloid, amongst which may be mentioned many myxomata, oedematons soft fibioniata, and some glandular tiimoiu’s which had undergone colloid degene- ration. Melanotic Cancer.—It is quite possible that there may be a pigmented foim of true cancer, but if so it is extremely rare. Such a form of tumour is mentioned by Cornil and Ranvicr, but they do not record a case. The tumours formerly described under the name of melanotic cancer have already been mentioned with the sarcomata (see page 772). So-called Osteoid Cancer is probably always ossifying sarcoma. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the different forms of cancer is not always easily made. Scirrhus, when in tumour, may very readily be confounded with fibrous tumours and chronic glandular masses, or with the indurated atrophy of a part; in many of these cases, indeed, the diagmosis cannot be coiTectly effected until after removal. In other cases, however, the rugged feel, the lancinating pains, and the tendency to the implication of the lymphatics, or to affection of the general health, will commonly serve to establish the diagnosis. IVIien ulceration has taken place, the previous condition of the tumour, the general character of the sore, and the microscopic examination of the debris, may serve to denote its true character. Encephciioid in tiimoiu- may be confounded ivith abscess, with cysts, or with fatty, erectile, and sanguineous tumours, and with the various soft varieties of sarcoma ; and, when pulsating, wdth anemism. In these cases cai-efril palpation, the existence of elasticity without fluctuation, and the presence of the large and tortuous veins ramifying over the surface of the mass, may establish its true character. When it is fungating, it may be confounded with the sprouting intracystic growths that sometimes spring fr-om the interior of a cystic tumour. Here, however, a microscopic examination of the debris, as well as the existence or absence of contamination of neighboiu’ing lymphatics, wiU show the true nature of the affection. The diagnosis of a tumour as a cancer is sometimes materially obscured by the accidental development of abscess in the tissues around or above it. In such cases, the continuance of a swelling which is evidently not iiiflammatoiy, after the pus has been evacuated, may lead to a suspicion as to the true nature of the disease. Causes.—The causes of cancer, as of aU other diseases, may be divided into two gi’eat classes, 'S’iz.: the constitutional or predisposing, and the local or exciting. So far as the constitutional or predisposing causes of this disease are con- cerned, it maybe said that it is difficult to coiuiect any distinct or recognisable constitutional condition with a tendency to this disease. Cancer no doubt commonly shows itself in persons aiiparently in perfect health, of florid