676 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. burning, stinging, bcavy, or throbbing pain in the part, ont of proportion to the apparent gTavity of the disease. The contents of the A'csicle speedily become piu-iform, and are shed. The inflamed base then rapidly enlarges as a flat, painful, hard, but somewhat doughy, circumscribed swelling of the integuments and subjacent areolar tissue. The swelling is of a dusky red hue, slightly elevated, but never loses its flattened circular shape ; as it increases in size, the skin covering it assumes a purple or brownish red tint, becomes undermined, and gives way at several points, foivning openings through which ash-grey or straw-coloured sloughs appear, and from which an unhealthy pm-ulent discharge scantily issues. The size of the swelling varies from one to six inches in diameter ; most commonly it is about two inches across. Carbuncles are generally met with on the posterior part of the trimk, more especially about the shoulders and the nape of the neck ; being rarely seen anteriorly, or on the extremities. I have, however, had to treat very large carbuncles on the abdomen, and have met wdth them on the shm, forearm, forehead, lips, and cheeks. The Constitutional Disturbance attending this disease is always of the asthenic type ; the complexion is often peculiarly sallow or yellow, the pulse feeble, and the tongue loaded; and if the tumoin’ be large, or be seated on the head, death may take place, the patient sinking into a typhoid state. Causes.—A carbuncle usuaUy arises without any assignable local exciting cause ; but in some cases it is evidently directly occasioned by the intro- duction of some poisonous matter into a puncture in the skin or into a bair-foUicle. In aU cases it is associated with and dependent upon a disordered, usually a low, state of the constitution. Any condition that lowers the powers of the system wiU predispose to, and may at last occasion, carbuncle. Habitually bad and insufficient food, the exhaustion induced by chiunic wasting diseases, as diabetes, albuminuria, &c., or the debility resultmg from acute febrile diseases—more particularly typhus—may aU occasion it. Car- buncles are more conmion in the old than in the young, and in men than in women. . , , t«? • -(.o Diagnosis.—Carbuncle resembles loil in many points, yet differs in 1 gi-eater size, in the dusky red of the inflamed integument, in its broad flat character, and in the large quantity of contained slough in piopoition 0 small amount of pmmlent discharge, as weU as in the conditions in whic it o-enerally occurs. It also differs from a boil in its tendency to spread. A boil “comL to a head,” bursts, and discharges pus and slough ; a ^arb^ Im be discharging and sloughing at one part, whilst it spreads, hard and in carbuncle will depend on the size of the swelfliig on to situation, and on the state of the patient's that of his kidneys. The most dangerous carbimcles aie those hat aie lai,^ and situated or encroaching on the scalp ; m ao , e ““ is involued the greater the danger. If the ma, he recovered ftom i but if the kidneys be ^ eacLriiie diabetes, the progress of the disease cannot leadily be checked, the patient will usually sink.