AMPUTATION. AFTER 49 MORTALITY of the stump so as to i-cmovc the end of the hone and the whole of the cicatrix, is necessary, and will effect a cure. Sometimes a nervous twig may become implicated in, and compressed by, the cicatrix. Here a more limited excision will remove the pain. Besides this form of painfid stimip, which may happen in the strongest and healthiest subjects, and is entirely dependent on local causes, there is another condition in which the stump becomes not only the seat of intense pain, but of continuous convulsive twitchings. This form of painful stimip arises fi’om constitutional causes, and most frc(][ucntly occuis in females, more particularly in those who are of the hysterical temperament, and are or liaA'c been subject to nem'algic pains elscAvhere. In these cases the general cutaneous sensibility of the stump is increased; it is the seat of coinudsive jerkings or twitchings, and the pain is more oi less intermittent, being inci’eased under the influence of various emotional and constitutional causes. In such cases, the treatment should be conducted on the general principles that will be fidly discussed when we come to speak of neuralgia. Xo excision of the nerves of the stump, or even amputation higher up, is of any avail; the disease, being constitutional, will certainly retiu’ii in each suc- cessive stump, until at last the shoulder or the hip may be reached without any pennanent benefit to the patient. Occasionally after amputation a condition of chronic or subacute neuritis, ■with sclerosis of the nerve, is setup, which has a tendency slowly but steadily to extend itself upwards, invol'ving new nerves as it goes, and finally, iDerhaps, leading to changes in the spinal cord itself. The symptoms and treatment are those of chronic neuritis, which will be fully described mider Injm-ies of Xerves. Strumous or Malignant Degeneration may occm* in a stump, presenting the ordinary characters of these affections met vith elsewhere. In the strumous stump, secondary amputation may advantageously be performed ; but on the recurrence of malignant disease it is seldom justifiable, as there is probably deposit in internal organs or contamination of the lymphatics. Fattg Degeneration of the muscles of a limb, arising from their disuse, gives rise to a peculiar appearance in the stump. During the amputation, the muscles look like pieces of yellow wax, and are firm : no atrophy, so far as size is concerned, has taken place ; the fat being deposited between the musculai- fibres, producing atrophy of them by its pressure, and occupying their place, so that the general size of the limb and fulness of the stump are preserved. Union takes place in these circimistances, though somewhat slowly ; at least, this has occiuTcd iu several cases in Avhich I have observed this condition. In one of these I amputated the leg for disease of the foot of nine years’ standing, and in another the thigh for disease of the knee of fomteen years’ standing. MORTALITY AFTER AMPUTATION. The general causes of death after operations have already been considered but we must now examine some special points connected with the relativ( mortality after amputations of different kinds, and the cause of the differ ■once that exists. The principal causes of death after amputation are tin influence of shock, the occun-ence of secondary hmmonhage, pymmia, sep ticaimia, erysipelas, phlebitis, and congestive pneumonia ; besides these, hos pital gangi’ene and sloughing of the stump occasionally caiTy off the patient VOL. 1. K