7o6 ERYSIPEfAS. tional fever, wifcli a pungent hot skin ami quick pulse. This form of erysipelas is peculiarly contagious, and occurs not uufrequently in the attendants of those who are labouring under some of the other varieties of the disease ; of this I have seen numerous instances. In many cases, also, it is epidemic, spreading through a house and affecting almost every inmate. Treatment.—The best results arc obtained by sponging the inflamed parts freely with a strong solution of the nitrate of silver; and, if there be much constitutional depression, by administering full doses of ammonia, with cam- phor or bark. Should the disease go on to sloughing, constituting one of the forms of “ putrid sore thi-oat ” (which not unfrequently happens), the mineral acids and bark, vdth chlorinated gargles, and the brandy-and-egg mixture for support, will be found most useful. In many cases, this disease continues limited to the palate and fauces ; but in others it extends upwards or downwards. It may extend upwards tlirough the nares, out of the nostrils, and thus spread over the face and head. It may extend downwards, affecting the gastro-intestinal membrane, or, more frequently, implicatmg the larynx. Erysipelatous Laryngitis, as described by Eyland, Budd, and others, is extremely dangerous. The inflammation, commencing in the fauces, rapidly spreads to the mucous membrane and loose submucous areolar tissue external to and within the larynx, giving rise to extensive cedematous infiltration with sero-plastic fluid, which, by obstructing the rima glottidis, may readily suffo- cate the patient. In consequence of this special tendency to cedema, the disease has by many writers been termed “ mclematous laryngitis:’ After death, the submucous areolar tissue of the fauces, that about the base of the epiglottis, and especially that which enters into the aryt^no-epiglottidean folds and that covering the posterior part of the larynx, Avill be found to be dis- tended with serum or a sero-puriform fluid. This infiltration reaches to the rima of the glottis, and, extending into the interior of the larynx, gives rise to such swelhng that its cavity is nearly obliterated. Great as the swelling may be however, in all these parts, it never spreads below the true vocal chords. This fact, which is very important, is explained by the mucous membrane coming closely into contact with, and being adherent to, the fibrous tissue of which these structures are composed, without the intervention of any sub- mucous areolar tissue. The progress of this cedematous inflammation of the , mucous membrane and loose submucous tissue in these situations is often amazingly rapid, the swelhng being sufficient to induce suffocation at the end of thirty-six or forty-eight hours, or even sooner. If the patient be not carried off in this way, there will be a great tendency to suppuration and sloughing of the affected tissues, leading perhaps eventually to death from abso°T)tion of pus and low constitutional fever. The Symptoms of this affection are strongly marked. The patient a^r _ being attaeked with erysil»las of the fauces, attended by seme d.fflcuhy pain ill deglutition, and huskiness of the voice, is seized ivith more oi 1^ difficulty in breathing, coughs hoarsely and with a croupy s^nd. and co plains of tenderness under the angles of the diffieoltyin breathing increases, and may speedily natient giving rise to intense fits of dyspnoea, m one ol which he mil probably Cndiily eflTied off. The dfflcnlty is greater in inspiration than o. p i