920 DISEASES OF LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. TABLE II. Li<jatur& of the External Iliac for Elephantiasis, SURGEON. SEX. AGE. SITUATION AND DURATION OF DISEASE. RESULTS, 1. T. Bryant . 2. G. Buchanan 3. C. Hneter . 4. Simon . . F. 26 F. 17 F. 23 F. 20 Left lower limb. 10 years after scarlatina Left lower limb. 6 years . Left lower limb. 8 years . Left lower limb. 4 years. Right limb slightly affect- ed, 1 year . ... Cure after 7 months. Tcmporaiy improvement. Relapse after 11 mths. Cure. Left external iliac tied. Temporary benefit. Re- lapse in 8 months. TABLE III. Ligature of other Arteries for ElepJumtiasis. SURGEON. SEX. AGE. SITUATION AND DURATION OF DISEASE. RESULTS. 1. Statham. . M. 42 Foot and ankle Anterior tibial tied in middle third of leg. Improvement. 2. Carnochan . F. 42 Elephantiasis Grsecorum. Face enormously swollen Right common carotid tied. After six months left common carotid tied. Some nodules removed. Cure after 8 years. To Carnochan is due the merit of having recommended the hgatme of the femoral artery as a means of ciu’e in these cases ; and, in whatever way it acts, there can be no doubt of the excellent effects that have followed this method of treatment, little as it can be explained by the received pathological views of the disease. In some instances, as by Bryant, Buchanan, and Simon (of Heidelberg), the external ihac has been advantageously tied. The operation on this artery has the recommendation not only of being completely above the limits of the disease, and consequently in parts that are quite healthy, but also of more completely controlling the nutrition of the limb than can be done by ligature of the superficial femoral. The result of the operation appears to have been fairly encom-aging in a certain number of cases, though in a large proportion it is evident, by the above Tables, that little if any improvement took place. Much doubtless depends on the real nature of the disease—whether true elephantiasis, or simple enlargement of the limb from the deposit of lowly organised plastic deposit of a less specific character. The latter probably undergoes absorption, when the nutritive supply of blood has been cut olf, much more readily than the former. Varix of the Lymphatics has been occasionally met with, both in the superficial and deep networks and in the lymphatic trunks. The part most commonly foimd affected has been the inner side of the thigh ; but the disease