691 EXCITING CAUSES OF ERYSIPELAS. (lays after this, a patient, from M'hom a necrosed portion of ilium had been remo\-cd a few weeks previously, and who was lying in the adjoining bed to that in which the patient with the erysipelas had been temporarily placed, was seized with erysipelas, of whicli he speedily died. The disease then spread to almost every case in the ward, and proved fatal to several patients who had recently been operated upon. In some instances patients were affected with the constitutional symptoms without any appearance of local inflammatory action, but characterised by the same gastro-intestinal irritation that marked the other cases. Erysipelas may not only spread in this Avay fr-om patient to patient, but any tliffusc inflammation, as phlebitis, inflammation of the absorbents, low or j)ucr- pcral peritonitis, may give rise to external erysipelas, and in its turn be occa- sioned by it—a strong argument in favour of the allied or even identical natiu’e of all these affections. Then, again, the mitact of dead or putrescejit animal matters with recent woimds may occasion it. In this way the disease is not uni'requently originated in hospitals by dressers going direct from the dead- house, and especially from the examination of the bodies of those who have died of diffuse inflammation, to the bedside of patients, without taking suffi- cient care to wash their hands or change their clothes. For this reason also it is of great consequence that the same instruments be not used for practising operations on the dead, and performing them on the living body. Overcroivcling of hospitals, and want of froinr ventilatmi in wards or rooms, are fertile sources of erysipelas, and of the allied low inflammations ; in fact, an outbreak of ery- sipelas might at any time be induced in this way amongst patients in all other respects healthy and well cared for. The principal Exciting Cause of erysipelas is certainly the fresence of a wound. It is chiefly recent wounds, however, that are affected ; when once the adhesive or suppurative inflammation is set up, the wound is not so hable to take it on unless it be in bad constitutions, the formation of limiting fibrine appearing to lessen the hability to the occinrence of the disease. When erysipelas is epidemic, it is well for the Sui’geon not to perform any operation that can conveniently be postponed ; and in no case should a patient on whom an operation has recently been performed be put in a neighboiuing bed to a case of erysipelas, or even m the same ward. The size of the wound has little influence on the occuirence of erysipelas, which takes place as readily from a small as a large one. But although the mere size of a womid does not influence the liability to the occurrence of erysipelas in it, which will as readily follow a puncture as an amputation-wound, yet its character does. Thus, lacerated wounds are much more liable to be followed by erysipelas than clean-cut incisions. And the depth of the wound influences in an important manner the se’s'erity of the erysipelas, which is more intense in those injuries that penetrate the fasciae, even though this be cut to a very imited extent, when the disease may spread widely and fatally through the deeper subaponeurotic and intennuscular planes of areolar tissue. Injuries a lout the head and hands are those that are most liable to be followed bv this disease. ^ But, though we must constantly bear in mind the constitutional nature of eiysipe as, it will be more convenient and practical to describe it as it affects Y T 2