^36 VENEREAL DISEASES. hence it is impossible ever to in’onouucc a woman free from cliaucre without examining these parts hj means of the speculum. Wlicii situated upon the external organs, they are not unfrequcntly concealed between the rugar, or in nooks and corners of tlic mucous membrane. In these cases, their presence may sometimes be detected by the labia being swollen and oedematous fr’om the irritation produced l.)y them. Diagnosis.—Tlic diagnosis of chancre is usually sutHciciitly easy, the pecidiar character of the sore enabling the Surgeon to recognise it in all its forms. In some instances, however, it is by no means easy to say positively whether an ulcer on the penis be or be not chancrous. It is especially difficult to distin- guish some forms of excoriated chancre fr’om herpes or aphthm on the prepuce or glans, or from those slight excoriations that many men habitually contract after a somewhat impure connection ; so, also, the wound resulting from a ruptured fi'temmr often presents a suspicious appearance. In these cases, how- ever, the absence of any specific character about the sore, its immediate occur- rence after connection, the general known tendency of the patient to those affections, and the fact of the inguinal glands not being generally indolently enlarged, wiU enable the Surgeon to diagmose the ulcer to be simply a local affection, and not the prelude to general syphilitic eruptions. When the prepuce is in a state of inflammatory phimosis, it is always extremely difficult to determine by mere examination whether there be chancres under it or not, though their bases indurated by inflammation may sometimes be felt through it. In the case of the phagedasnic or the sloughy chancre, there can be little diffi- culty in establishing the true nature of the affection. In those cases in which a comparison of the characters of the sore with one or other of the different recog- nised varieties of chancre failed in enabling the Surgeon to determine the true nature of the affection, it was thought at one time, when the local contagious ulcer and the phenomena attending the progress of syphilis were confounded together, that the influence exercised by mercury upon the sore would deter- mine whether the disease were syphihtic or not; the true chancres being sup- posed to be curable in no other Avay than by the internal admmistration of mercury ; but, although there can be no doubt that the influence exercised by treatment assists the Surgeon considerably in the diagnosis of obscure cases, yet it cannot be relied upon as a test of the nature of the disease, many venei’eal affections being readily curable by very simple means without mer- cury. It must be further recollected, that little practical advantage is gained • by experimenting on the contagious quality of the discharge ; because, if the patient have been exposed to syphilitic contagion, Avhen the sore comes imder the observation of the Surgeon it ivill be impossible to prevent his infection, which wiU have taken place in a very few hours after the application of the poison. Treatment oe Chancre.—The treatment of venereal sores has engaged the anxious attention of the most eminent Surgeons ; and so much difl'crencc of opinion and practice regarding it still prevails, that I shall not endeavour to discuss the subject generally, but rather confine my remarks upon it to that form of treatment Avhich has met with the sanction of the best Surgeons in this country, and which a tolerably extensive experience in hospital and piivatc practice has led me to consider as the most safe and effectual.