6o4 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. CHAPTER XXVII. —♦—- INJURIES OF THE THROAT : AND ASPHYXIA. INJURIES OP 0?HB LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Dislocation and Fbactuee of the Larynx.—The cartilages of the larynx may be displaced, dislocated as it 'were, by violent blows ; or they may be fractiu'ed by a squeeze, the ruptiu’e in some cases taking place transversely, in others longitudinally. Digital examination will at once detect the natiu’e of the iujmy. In aU these injmies there are pain and difficulty of breathing and of speech, and in some cases spitting of blood and cough, and there is danger of asphyxia, which indeed may be induced by simple concussion of the larynx. Should these symptoms be very urgent, tracheotomy may be required ; if not, attention to position and support of the head will suffice. Wounds of the Throat.—These are of great frequency and importance, implicating as they do, some of the most important organs in the body. They may be divided into three categories :— 1. Those that do not extend into the Air- or Food-passages. 2. Those that implicate the Air-passage, with or without injury of the OEsophagus. 3. Those that are accompanied by mjury of the Spinal Cord. AU these injiu’ies are most commonly suicidal, and may be inflicted with every variety of cutting instrument; except where the spinal cord is injined, which must, in cases of suicide, be the result of giui-shot wound, and is neces- sarily fatal. Though incised, they are often jagged, and partake somewhat of the character of lacerated wounds, with great gaping of the edges. 1. Wounds not extending into the Air- or Tood-passages. In these wounds, there is very commonly fi’ee and even fatal hiemorrhage, and this sometimes though none of the larger arterial or venous tnmks have been divided; the blood flowing abundantly from the venous plexuses or from the thyi’oid body when the wound is low down. If the larger arteries be touched, as the carotid and its primary branches, the haemorrhage may be so abundant as to give rise to almost instantaneous death. Another source of danger cases proceeds from the admission of air into the veins of the so-callcd “ dan- gerous region ” of the neck. For this a free wound is by no means necessai-y, as is instanced by a remarkable case that ocemred some yearn ago neai- London, in which the introduction of a seton into the fore part of the neck was follove by death from this cause. AVounds of the internal jugular vein are necessarily very dangerous, ine is not only the ordinary risk of primary haimorrhagc from a vessel of such laige