674 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. likely to be confined in bed for many weeks, especially l)y exbaustin" disease, steps should be taken by proper arrangement of the pillows, and by the use of the water-bed and cushions, to prevent pressure from being injuriously exer- cised upon any one part. At the same time, cleanliness and dryness should be carefully provided for by proper niu-sing, by the use of a draw-sheet, and fur- nishing the bedstead with the necessary arrangements of bed-pan, &c. The back should be periodically examined by the Surgeon himself. In certain low states of blood or nerve power, bed-sores of the worst character will very rapidly form. The skin on the exposed parts may be protected by the appli- cation of collodion or soap-plaster spread upon wash-leather or amadou, or isinglass on felt; or, what is better, it may be strengthened by being washed with spirits of wine, either pure or with two gTains of perchloride of mercury dissolved in each omice. In some cases much benefit is derived by timning the patient on his side and employing frictions of brandy and glycerine in equal parts. If the skin has become reddened it should be painted vdth a solution of nitrate of silver, of 5 gr. to 1 oz. If the skin have become chafed, the removal of pressure is imperative, and the abrasion may be washed over with collodion. If a sore have formed, it may be di’essed with the balsam of Peru, either pure or with zinc ointment, spread upon lint. In some cases also the prone couch may occasionally be advantageously substituted for the ordinary bed previously employed. When sloughs have fonned, their separation must be facilitated by the use of char- coal or chlorinated poultices, and the ulcers that are left should be dressed ■with astringent and aromatic appheations, such as catechu, tincture of myrrh, &c., and the utmost attention must be paid to cleanliness by the use of antiseptic lotions ; but no di’essing that the Sm’geon can apply ■will cause these ulcers to clean, and still less to heal, miless pressiu’e be removed and the patient s general health improve, and then they will speedily cicatrise under the most simple treatment. BOILS. A Boil is a hard circumscribed tumour of a violet or purplish-red colour, flattened, though somewhat conical, suppurating slowly and imperfectly, and always containing a small conical central slough of areolar tissue called a core. It consists of an inflammation of the subcutaneous areolar tissue and of the under surface of the true skin. The tension and hardness accompanying this affection render it extremely painful and annoying. It is most commonly seated in the thick skin of the back, the neck, or the nates. Causes.—Boils most frequently occur in young people, but are common enough at all ages, and are usually seen either in very plethoric or in very enfeebled constitutions, often Mowing some of the more severe febrile dis- eases, and attending convalescence from them. In other cases, the system appears to have fallen into a cachectic state, often without any evident cause, and this tenninates by a critical emption of boils. A sudden change m the habits of life, as from sedentary to active pursuits, a course of sea-bathiiig, cVc., Avill also occasion them. They are commonly met noth in the year, but may occur at all seasons, and arc occasionally epi emic.