SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 144 in diplifclicria and croup, lymph is poiu’od onfc on the mncons membrane of the throat; whilst, in empyema, pus is fonned in the cavity of the pleima. 3. The Degree and Character of the inflammation modify considerably the product. ^ When the inflammation is of an active sthenic character in a healthy constitution, it requires considerable intensity to give rise to suppuration. It IS only where the system is strongly predisposed by struma or cachexy, that very slight inflammations terminate in this way. The degree of inflammation required for the formation of pus varies gveatly, but it is always greater than that necessary for plastic exudation. Certain forms of inflammation are always attended by specific products. In pyemia, for instance, all the products have a snppmative tendency, even Avheu serous membranes are inflamed. In croup, on the other hand, there is a disposition to plastic effusion even on mucous sm’faces. The specific character of the inflammation often determines the supervention of suppination: some diseases, such as gonon-hoea and purulent ophthalmia, consisting essentially in the secretion of pus by a free surface. 4. In addition to the conditions above mentioned, the Local Condition of "the Fart influences the probabihty of suppuration. Thus a subcutaneous wound, as in tenotomy, does not suppmate ; but if it be opened, and its interior exposed to the air, then suppination takes place. For the same reason all iflccrs snppinate. The lodgment of foreign bodies, as of mine, a piece of bone, or a bullet, by exciting intense and continuous inflammation, almost inevitably leads to suppination, which is indeed the means adopted by natine for their removal from the system. The DURATION of suppination varies greatly. Inflammation I’ery commonly terminates in the formation of pus, in the coinse of about thi’ce days ; at other times a much longer period than this is required, the inflammatory action being passive and languid. When once siqipination has been set up, it may continue for an indefinite time ; the forma tion of pus-ceUs becoming, as it were, the estab- lished condition of the part. It is not micommon to find pmulent discharges fr’om mucous membranes continuing for years. Symptoms op Suppuration.—These are local and constitutional. The Local Symptoms differ as the suppuration occurs on a mucous surface, or in the interior of a tissue or organ. When an inflamed mucous surface is about to suppmate, the membrane pre- sents the ordinary characters of active inflammation, being hot, swollen, red, and often painful; to these a discharge is speedily superadded. When suiipuration is about to take jilace in the snlstance of tissues or orr/ans, so as to give rise to an abscess in one of the forms to be presently described, the local symptoms of inflammation imdergo certain modifications indicative of the supervention of this action. The pain becomes throbbing; the part swells and becomes tense, but after a time softens ; and fluctuation or undulation may be detected in it. The skin becomes glazed, red, shiny, and cedematous. In other cases, again, suppmation occurs without any erident sign of local inflam- mation, the presence of the pus revealing itself by swelling and fluctuation only. Coustitutional Symptoms.— On the supervention of extensive suppuration the ordinary symjitoms of inflammation subside, and arc usually internqitcd by the occurrence of chills, alternation of heat and cold, or, if the fonnation of pus be extensive, by severe and long-continued rigors. The fever often assumes a