780 TUMOURS. carefnl separation of malignant sarcomata, such as are common in bones, g ands, and subcutaneous tissue, from true cancers, such as arise in connection mth glands, skin, and mucous membranes. Quite recently, Creighton has carried out a series of investigations for the Medical Department of the Privy Council, which tend to confirm the view that epithelium is the starting point of cancer ; but he believes that under certain circumstances epithelium may also give rise to cells of the connective tissue type. The observations leading to this conclusion were made on a case of secondary spindle-celled sarcoma in the liver. He describes a process of vacuolation and endogenous cell-formation. A clear space first appears in the cell, pushing the nucleus to one side. In this space in the epithelium-cell, the spindle-cell is formed. The question is necessarily one of great difficulty, and presents a large field for further inquiry. Progress.—The general characters that attend the progress of the scin’hous and encephaloid forms of cancer present numerous points of resemblance. When once formed, the tumour continues progressively to increase hi size, with a degree of rapidity, and to an extent, that vary according to its kind ; the scin’hous tumour gTowing most slowly, and attaining but moderate dimensions; the encephaloid often with gveat rapidity, and to an immense size. When the full growth of the tumour has been attained, the process of decay commences. The mass softens at some point, the skin covering which becomes duskily inflamed and ulcerated, and an irregular sloughy aperture forms, through which the dehHs of the mass are eliminated in an ichorous or sanious fluid, having often a peculiar fetid smell. The ulcer then rather rapidly increases, with everted edges, a hard and knobby, or soft and frmgatiug surface, and the discharge of a dark fluid, often attended by hiemoiThage, and occasionally with sloughing of portions of the mass. Coincidently ivith the implication and ulceration of the skin, there is usually deposit in the lym- phatic glands with great increase of pain, and most commonly with the super- vention of the constitutional cachexy; though in some cases this condition precedes the cutaneous impheation. This cachexy may possibly be due to some modifleation in the condition of the blood, induced by the action of the morbid growth on the economy. The exhaustion resulting from the ulceration, sloughing, and consecutive hmmoirhage, and the secondary deposits in internal organs, also commonly increases this cachectic state ; in many instances it is not marked until after the skin has become affected, and in others it does not supervene until ulceration is actually set up. In this cachexy the countenance is pecnliarly pale, dravm, and sallow, so that the patient has a very anxious and care-worn look. The general surface of the body commoifly acquires an eai'thy or yellowish tint, and not unfrequently large spots of pityriasis or chloasma make their appearance on various parts of it; the appetite is impaired, the voice enfeebled, the muscular strength gveatly diminished, and the piflse weak. The patient complains of pains in the limbs, of lassitude, and of inability lor exertion ; he emaciates rapidly, and frequently suffers by the occurrence ol cancerous deposits in internal organs ; and at last dies from exhaustion, induced by the conjoined effects of Aveakening discharges, general debility> and pain.