GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 22 ot blow asphyxia or a low iorni of pneumonia may set in, and may prove fatal m a period varying from twenty-four hours to four or six days. This is cspeeiaUy apt to happen m those cases in which it becomes necessaxy to bandage the chest, or ill which deep respiration is attended by pain, as after ampiitation of the breast. Great care must, therefore, be employed not to adopt too much constriction of the chest-walls after such operations. IrritaUlity of the Stomach, attended by continual nausea and vomiting, is sometimes a very distressing after-effect of chloroform, and may be pro- ductive of most serious and even of fatal results. In many instances it fs developed by the patient taking the chloroform too soon after a meal, and is then purely gastric. In other instances it aixpears to be sympathetic with cerebral disturbance of some kind ; in other instances, again, it is connected with kidney-disease. But in any case, and fi’om whatever cause arismg, it is a very serious symptom, and, if it continue, often tiums the scale against the patient by the exhaustion to which it gives rise. It is best treated by ice and opium. Death from Chloroform may occur in three different ways ; viz., by Coma, by Asphyxia, or by Syncope; thi-ough the brain, the Imigs, or the heart. When death occm’s by Coma, the patient is heard suddenly to breathe ster- torously; he becomes liAud in the face, and is commlsed; the heart beats until the last moment of life, and death appears to result primarily from the circulation of dark blood through the nervous centres. This form of death chiefly occm’s in individuals who are epilejxtics, or whose blood is loaded with urea. Death by Asphyxia may be produced in one of two ways. 1. It may be the fault of the administratoi’, sufficient air npt being admitted xvith the chloroform-vapour to maintain the respiratory function. This is especially apt to happen when a patient, being semi-narcotised, has a piece of lint saturated with chloroform suddenly apixlied to the mouth and ixose, the heat of the operator’s hand and of the patient’s body rapidly raising a large volume of vapoiu’. 2. Lister describes the production of asphyxia as being due to spasmodic closure of the upper opening of the larynx, the folds of mucous membrane above the apices of the arytaenoid cartilages being carried forwards till they are in contact "with the base of the ej)iglottis, which remains erect and unchanged in position. This theory -was fomided on observations of the larynx dining the production of that peculiar laryngeal stertor which usnaUj^ precedes the stoppage of the respiration. On iDulling the tongue forcibly for- ward, the arytaenoid cartilages ivere seen to be drami backward, and the opening of the larynx made perfectly free again ; and this seemed to be due to reflex action and not to mechanical causes. This is quite possible dining anaesthesia, as the reflex functions of deglutition and respiration ai’e not affected by chloroform as administered for a surgical operation. This state of things may often pass unnoticed till the pulse stops, as the healing of the chest may go on for some time after air has ceased to enter ; the only signs of the state of the patient being the gradually increasing liiidity of the face, and the fact that no air is entering or coming out during respiration, which can be ascertained by feeling with the hand oi'er the mouth. Lister is of opinion that many of the deaths from chloroform, in ivhich the heart has been said to stop first, were cases of this kind.