OLD UNREDUCED DISLOCATIONS. 4^5 skin from abrasion, or even laceration, by the use of wet flannel bandages oi Avasli-lcatbcr. Tlic force exercised l)y the pulleys must be considcralfle; but it should be accompanied by free rotatory manipulations and moyements ot the head of the bone, so as to loosen it from its adhesions and reduction will usually be effected in this way rather than by forcible traction only. Anesthesia is of inestimable service in these cases ; and it is by its means that the Surgeon has been enabled to prolong materially the limit of possible reduction. But, in the reduction of old dislocation.^ anesthetics do not afford exactly the same kind of service as in those of recent date. In a recent dislocation the chief obstacle is muscular contraction ; and, by relaxiuo- this, anesthetics enable the Siu’geon to replace the bone at once without difficulty. In old dislocations the obstacles, as has just been stated, consist ill various pathological changes that have taken place aroimd and in the displaced bones. These conditions cannot be influenced by anesthesia ; and hence, except as a means of producing insensibility to pain^ and pre- A-enting instmetive or A'oluntary muscular resistance, chloroform udll not aid the Surgeon. _ • ■ . i • It must be borne in mind that the reduction of old dislocations is not only a work of very considerable difficulty, but also of considerable danger. If seA eral mouths have elapsed, the obstacles arising from the pathological changes aheady mentioned will usually be so obstinate as to render the reduction impossible without the employment of a dangerous amount of force, and in many cases they i\ill prevent the possibility of reduction, whatever force be employed. The Accidents liable to occur diu’ing attempts to reduce old dislocations, whether successful or not, are the following:—1. Laceration of the skin by the constriction aaid pressme of the bands to which the pulleys are attached. 2. Laceration of muscles : thus the pectoral has been torn through in attempting reduction of old dislocation of the shoulder. 3. The development of inflam- mation and suppiu’ation around the dislocation, by the violence to which the soft parts haA'e been subjected. From this cause death has seA'eral times resulted, in attempts at reducing old hip-dislocations. 4. Extensive extraA'asa- tion of blood from the ruptiu’e of small vessels in the lacerated soft parts, giving rise to vide-spread ecchymosis. 5. Laceration of one of the larger veins. A patient of Froriep’s died fi-om this cause, after rupture of the axil- laiy vein, in an attempt to reduce an old dislocation of the shoulder. G. Laceration of an artery, and the formation of a diffused traumatic anemism. This serious accident has happened at least twelve times in attempted reduction •of old dislocations of the shoulder. The brachial artery has also been torn in attempted reduction of dislocated elbow. 7. Laceration of neighbouring nerves. Those of the axillary plexus have been torn in attempted reduction of dislocation of the shoulder, and the median in that of the elbow. 8. Fracture of the dislocated bone. This serious accident has usually happened Avheir the Surgeon, after the employment of extension, has attempted to put in force transverse movements of the bone, or has used the bone as a lever ; Avhen it has given Avay, usually high up near the head, at other times in the shaft. It is possible that in some cases this may have been predisposed to by the bone haA'ing become Aveakened by want of use. It has occiuTcd seA'eral times in the