882 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE ■SKIN. made to overlap the edge of the nail. An nicer here forms, the liability to which is greatly increased by the nail being cut sejuare, so that the flesh presses against a sharp and projecting corner of it; this ulcer secretes a fetid sanious discharge, and large granulations are thrown up by it. The conse- quence is inability to walk or even stand with comfort. Treatment.—Various plans have been devised with a view of raising the edge of the nail, partially removing it, and pressing aside the soft structures. I have never, however, seen much pennanent benefit result from any of these means ; and the only method that is, I think, really serviceable to the patient, is the removal of the whole nail. As this operation is an excessively painful one, the patient should be anassthetised with nitrous oxide, or the matrix should be rendered insensible by the ether-spray. The Surgeon holds the diseased toe in his left hand, and then running one blade of a strong shaip-pointed pair of scissors under the nail up to its very root, he cuts through its whole length, and, removing the scissors, seizes first one half and then the I V other mth a pair of dissecting forceps, and twists them away I fitt^'Chments. The raw surface left is covered f i water-dressing, and speedily throws out granulations f i k 'which form the rudiments of a new nail. The new nail m I sVil usually grows straight and healthy. In some rare cases, % however, I have seen a faulty direction assumed by it. f Avulsion of the toe-nail is usually imattended by danger. I was, however, once called upon to amputate a foot for gaugi-ene,which had followed the operation performed on an rig. 323.—Hypertro- elderly person. of Hypertrophy op Toe-Nail.—Occasionally from neglect the tqe-nail may become enormously hypertrophied and twisted, looking more like a horn than a nail, as in the accompanying drawing (Fig. 323), taken from a patient in whom the nail had been allowed to oTow uncut for twenty years, producing complete lameness. I removed the nail whole by axudsion, and a sound and useful foot resulted. TUMOURS AND ULCERS OP THE SKIN, Cheloid and Fibro-vascular Tumours of the skin are semi-mahgnant oTowths situated on the trunk and extremities, usually flat and expanded, oval, round or irregular in shape, slightly elevated above the surface of the skin, and commonly occun’ing in otheiwise healthy individuals. They may remain stationary for years, but not imcommonly have a tendency eventually to ulcerate, to bleed, and to assume a sort of mahgnant action ; at other times they extend slowly, without ulceration, moving forwards as it were upon the skin the part over which they have passed assuming much the appearance of the cicatrix of a burn, being red, contracted, drawn in towai'ds the centre, and Avrinkled. Closely alhed to these are those fibro-plastic growths that have a tendency to sprout up in scars, constituting the Warty Tumours of Cicatrices, described by Cmsar Hawkins. This morbid condition appears to be simply an abnormal increase in the activity of the development of the cicatricial tissue, which springs up udth great luxmiance. They are especiaUy apt to ^llow the irre<^ular cicatrisation of bums, more particularly in children. I have,