INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. C44 the feculent matter gives rise to and keeps up tlie most intense peritonitis, takes place less frequently than might he expected. For this tliere are soA'cral reasons. In the first place, as we haA-e ah’eady seen, if the wound in the gut he helow a certain size, there is a natural tendency to its occlusion l>y eversion of the mucous membrane. Besides this, it must l:)e home in mind that, though in ordinary language Avc speak of the “cavity” of the abdomen, there is in reality no such thing ; there being no empty space Avithin the peritoneal sac, hut the whole of the Aisceral contents of the abdomen being so closely and equably brought into contact by the pressure of the abdominal muscles and of the diaphragm, that it requires some force for the intestinal contents to over- come this uniform support, and to insinuate themsetoes between the coils of contiguous portions of intestine. The influence exercised by the continuous pressure of the abdomiual walls upon the intestinal contents, is Avell shown by the greater facility with which these escape from a portion of woimded intes- tine that has been protruded, than from one that is still lying Avithin the abdo- men. In the former case, feces will escape from a much smaller aperture than ill the latter, in consequence of the gut not being supported on all sides by the uniform pressure to which it is subjected within the abdomen. It is seldom, indeed, that feces are extravasated from gut that is not protruding, unless it be very full at the time of the injury, or the wound in it be very extensive. The influence of the equable pressure of the abdominal contents in preventing the escape of feces was well illustrated in a case in University College Hospital, of a man who was shot through the abdomen. The intestines, which contained much fecident matter, were traversed by the bullet in four places. He hved twenty-four hoiu’S, and yet no feculent extravasation took place. In another case to which I was called, that of a young gentleman who had been accidentally shot through the abdomen Avith the ramrod of a horse-pistol, the descending- colon was cut completely across, and the small intestmes perforated in tivo places ; and yet no extravasation took place, though he sinvived the accident Bloh is exiravasatecl more readily than the intestinal contents m wounds of the abdomen. This is in a great measure OAVing to the vis atergom^ii artery of moderate size, such as one of the branches of the inesenteric, bemg sufficient to overcome the equable pressine and support of the abdomnal waUs Extravasations, whether of feces or of blood, when once formed have h tie tendency to diffuse themselves, but become localised in the neighbouihood the part from which they Avere originally poined out; OAAmg in the fiist instance, to the sinroundiug pressine, and, at a later penod, to the deposi plastic matter between the folds of intestine and the neighboiu-ing this way the diffusion of irritating matters thi-ough the abdomiife caA i y prevented, and the likelihood of the occurrence of wide-spread and fatal mfl mation is much diminished. _ Uo vp^nomised bv The existence of these extravasations may, in many cases, be lecOs _ J must flrst consider the management of .the injuied paits , aiic, a on prevention or cure of the consecutive peritomtis.