113 PHENOMENA OF INFLAMMATION. <)bser\-atioiis of tlic escape fi’oui the veins of white corpuscles durin<>- the ])rocess of iiiflainmation. Tt is true that Cohnheim did not himself, at fii-st, affirm that all the cell-structures Avere the result of the emigi’ation of Avhite hlood-coiiDuscles, but his doctrines rapidly gained gTouiid, and l)y some of the more ardent of the disciples Avere deemed capable of uniA'ersal application, ddiere can, hoAveA'er, be AX'iy little doubt that, although the migration of blood- coi-puscles accounts for a lai-ge proportion of the cellular and molecular elements in inflammatory effusion, some, at least, are derived from the prolife- rating tissue-elements themselves. Another accomit of the origin of these cells has been given by Dr. Lionel Beale, who alleges that they arise fi'om the germinal material Avhich exists as nuclei or minute granules in the blood and tissues. Be this as it may, the nature and quantity of the exudation, which differs from liquor sanguinis inasmuch as it usually contains a larger proportion of albuminous and fibrinous material and also an excess of chlorides and j)hosphates, aaIU Axry AAuth the tissue inflamed and the degixe of inflammation. In compact or non-vasculai* tissues the effusion is small in amount, but in loose and vascular tissues the effusion may be very great. 3. The Tissues.—As aheady intimated, important changes take place in the nutrition of the tissues during the inflammatory process. There is, in fact, nn increased but perverted nutritive activity of the tissue-elements. The inflamed tissue is SAAxllen and infiltrated, and greatly reduced in resistance and coherence, e\-en dense hard structures becoming juicy and soft. The tissue- elements are swollen, while the nuclei and cells undergo raj)id proliferation, and scattered about are large numbers of amoeboid wandering cells, dernxd fr'om the nuclei of the connective tissue and fr-om the blood. ^ But the nutritive actiA-ity is not increased equally in all tissues. In epithe- lial tissues, and especially in mucous membranes, there is a rapid development cf cells which, with the liquid effusion that is thrown off with it, constitutes Avhat is knoAAn as catarrh. In hard non-vascular tissues, such as cartilage, there may be veiy httle tendency to multiplication of the cellular elements. ^ These are the principal changes met AAuth in the vessels, blood, and tissues of the affected part. The nerves have doubtless an important influence, the precise nature and extent of which are not yet thoroughly understood! ^ Lister has obsenxd that the tissues of the part are in a state of impaired niffrition and diminished functional acthity; they “have suffered a diminution ot poAver to discharge the offices peculiar to them as components of the healthy animal frame.” ^ In Avhat relation, as to order, do the phenomena of inflammation stand to «ac ot ei ? fetricker, who has ably investigated this matter by experiment le leAes t at the prcliminaiy step is a morbid influence on the A’essels, either A irec 01 through the vascular ner\-cs, originating Avithin or Avithout the organism ; and that there then folloAv 1. Local disturbance of circulation ; bloocf-''^'^" elements (corpuscles) of the ThisVriners ’• of cellular elements, hereafter." suppuration, of Avhich we shall have to speak OF IXFLAMMAXIOX.-These are local and constitutional. To I