TREATMENT OF SECONDARY IIJEMORRUAGE. 307 for delay, no time for consultation, none for reference to books; but tbc Siu’geon must act at once on his o^vn responsibility. 1. When the circulation is in-itable and excited, the pulsation free in a stump, and when the main vessels can be seen several days after the operation beating forcibly at the further ends, the ligatures being jerked up and domi, there is great danger of secondary hmmoiThagc occurring, and the patient must be closely watclicd ; the artery should be digitally compressed, and the diet lowered. In these cases it may sometimes be advisable to have recoiu’se to venesection. The treatment of secondary haemorrhage from a Stump will depend in a great measure on the degi'ec of union that has taken place between the flaps, and on the situation of the stump. When the hmmoiThage ocems a few days after amputation, if there be but slight oozing, eleA'ating the part, a])plying cold, and bandaging it tightly noth a roller, so as to compress the flaps. Anil sometimes arrest the bleeding. If it continue, however, or become more severe, the flaps, Avhich Avill have been dis- united by the effusion of blood, must be separated, and the bleeding vessels sought for and tied. When the stump is sloughy, and the tissues softened, the ligatm-es vrill not hold ; in these circumstances the application of the actual cauteiy to the bleeding points AviU aivest the flow of blood. If the oozing ap- pear to be nearly general from the number of points, the flaps being someAA'hat spongy, I have succeeded in aivesting the hmmoiThage by clearing their siufaces thoroughly of all coagula, and then bringing them tightly together by means of a roller. If the hmmoiThage occim at a later period, after the tenth day, Avhen tolerable union has taken place, and if it appear to proceed fr’om the principal artery of the part, an efibrt may be made to arrest it by the application of the horse-shoe tourniquet, which occasionaUy will stop aU frmther loss of blood ; or, if the union that had taken place between the flaps have been broken through, the stump may be fairly opened up, the coagula timied out, and the bleeding vessel sought for and tied. If however, notAvithstanding the haemor- ihage, the imion between the flaps continue sound and firm, then the choice lies between tlnee alternatives; 1, opening up the stump, clearing away coagula, and tying the bleeding vessels at their open mouths ; 2, h'gaturing the main aiteiy just a,boAn the stump; 3, performing the Hunterian operation, and tying the A essel high up in the limb at a distance from the stump. The course to be adopted Avill, I think, in a great measure depend upon the stump Avith w 1C 1 we have to do ; but as a general rule I prefer in these cases adopting e 1st alternatiA'e, placing a tourniquet on the limb, passing the finger into e ^ump, and breaking up all adhesions, which are often very film ; then uniing out the mass of eoagiila, which aaIU usually be found distending the aps, c earing these thoroughly AA'ith a sponge, and then tying the bleeding ai eiy. f there be a difficulty in exposing this, or in clearing it so that the iga lire Avill hold, acupressure may be advantageously substituted for the liga- Airc, anc the effects of this may be increased by the continnons employment of groin. Besides the main artery that bleeds—one of e 1 )ials, for instance, if it be a leg-amputation—there Avill generally be A-ery th?iw”° of this may be sto]iped by tho I,gat.,re passed, if the tissues be friable, by meaus of a Myus-uecdle umlor X 2