FRACTURES. 368 ■pig. 143.—Starched Bandage: Trap left for Dressing Wound. wliicli usually takes fi-om thirty to fifty hours, a wooden splint may be applied to the limb, so as to keeji it to its proper length and shape. The drying of the starch may, if necessary, be hastened liy the applica- tion of hot sand-bags to the apparatus. After the bandages have become quite dry, the temporary splint must be removed, and the patient may then be allowed to move about on crutches, taking care, of course, to keep the injured limb well slung up, and not to bear upon it, or to jar it against the ground (Fig. 140). In the course of about three or four days after its application, the apparatus mU usually be found to have loosened somewhat, the limb appearing to shrink Avithin it. In these cu’cumstances it becomes necessary to cut it up with a pair of Seutm’s pliers, such as are represented in Fig. 141. This section must be made, as represented hi Fig. 142, along the more muscular part of the limb, so that the skin covering the bones be not injimed; and, after paring the edges of the splint, it must be reapphed by means of tapes or a roller. In trimming the edges of the splint, it should not be removed from the limb. If the fracture be compound, a trap may be cut in the apparatus opposite the seat of injiuy, thi-ough which the woimd may be dressed (Fig. 143). Although folly recognising the great adi’antages to be obtained by treating ftaotm-es on this plan, and employing the starched bandi^e in almost eTery case that came under my care, I did not at tost think that it ,vas safe practice to have reoonrae to it during the early stages of fractm-e ; imtil, indeed, the swellino- of the limb had begun to subside. I therefore never apphed it until the sirth, or eighth, or tenth day, keeping the limb, until this time, properly reduced upon a splint, vei7 lightly bandaged, and wet with cold evaixiiating lotions ■ fearing that, if the bandage were applied at too eaily a peiiod, the inilammatoiT tm-geseence of the limb might give rise to a slow strangulation of it imder the apparatus. , rw , • , i a Diirino- many years, however, I employed Seiitm’s plan in seveml himdi'eds of fractm-es of all kinds, puttmg the limb up in the parched apparatus mrmXaklv after the reduction of the ftacture. I have foimd the practice an extremely successful one, even in ftactiires of the ttogh ^ at the Hospital I now rarely use any other plan of treatment thaii the able-immovable ” apparatus in some foim varying with the fashion of the day ; mid indeed the more experience I have of it, the more satisfied am I with he ’residts htained by it The moderate pressiun f bably by the great evapoi-atioii ^istiact Sinsatiou of cold and thick a mass of wet starch, and whicli pi ounces ^ in the limb, takes down the extravasation most patient usually to leave his bed about t etto .1 Inntaih'lhaT « treit all patients wuth simple toactiu-es