420 SPECIAL FRACTURES. the pronatorcs quadratiis and radii teres ; but to what is the displacement of the lower fragment due ? Is it to the peculiar manner in which the two fr’ag- ments arc locked into one another ? or is it due to muscular action ? Some years ago I had an opportunity of dissecting and carefully examining the state of the limb in a woman who died of paralysis in University College Hospital, Fig. i68.-Fi-ac- backwai’ds, can’ying the hand with it. To this fr-agment were o^^Eadius'rMs'^ attached the supinator longus, and part of the pronator This case presented the appearance usually met with in this kind of injury ; the lower fr-agment being displaced in such a way that its articular sm-face looked slightly upwards, backwards, and somewhat outwards, so as to be twisted as it were\pon its axis. The upper fragment was foiuid in a state of pronation, and was driven into and firmly impacted in the lower one. i That the deformity in this case was the result of impaction, there could be i no doubt; and that impaction is the cause of defoimity in many cases, is I proved by an examination of several specimens of consolidated fr-actme of the i radius preserved in the different coUections in London, and by the difficulty of ; accounting in any other way for the occasional impossibility of properly reduc- : incr these fractures. The great traction that is usually required to remove the defoimity, and the absence of distinct crepitus until after forcible traction has I nrm-.lnvpr1 I'nirlioate the existence of this impaction. twelve days after meeting with this ac- cident. On examining the left arm, which presented all the signs of this injin-y in a marked degree, and from which Fig. 108 was taken, a transverse fractm-e of the radius was found about an inch above its articular smface. The lower fr-agment was split into three portions, between which the upper fr-agment was so firmly impacted to the depth of more than half an inch, as to require some force in its removal. The three portions into which the lower fr-agment was split were of very unequal size ; the two posterior ones being small, consisting- merely of scales of bone; the third fr-agment, the largest, comprising- the whole of the articular Fig. 169.—Fmctm-e of Lower End of Radius : Displacement of Lower Fragment. surface of the radius, Vhich was somewhat tilted upwards and Ui jrvtiu.ius y AjLo placement of Arti- cular Surface. quadratus; the ligaments and capsule of the joint were miinjured. not carried to the full extent at the moment of danger.