fracture'OF THE LOWER END OF THE RADIUS. 421 three-quarters pronated—not Avholly so. The effect of this position is, that the ulnar border is slightly directed do-\vnwards and first comes into contact with the ground, and the fracturing force is directed in a line that is somewhat out- wards, or towards the radial side, as well as backwards and upwards. Hence the hand is di'ivcn from the ulna towards the radius, causing the strongly marked projection of the styloid process of the ulna ; and, the radius being broken across at its lower end, the fragment carrying with it the carpus and hand is driven backwards, upwards, and slightly outwards, causing the double dcfonnity of a projection at the back of the forearm immediately above the carpus, and the concavity along the outer line of the radius. But if, as sometimes happens, the hand be completely and forcibly pronated at the moment when it touches the groimd, then the shock, which is principally received on the ball of the thiunb and the radial side of the wrist, is not directed inunediately upwards in the axis of the radius ; but the force impinges in a direction obhquely from before backwards, and fr’om without inwards, as well as from below upwards, and thus has a tendency, as soon as the bone is broken, to rotate the lower fragment on its own axis, and to tilt the articular surface somewhat upwards and outwards. As the upper fragment descends, its posterior surface of compact tissue is forced into the cancellous structiu’e of the lower fragment to such a depth as will admit of the two posterior portions of compact tissue coming into contact; and thus the upper hne of compact tissue is ch’iven into the lower fragment, to an extent coiTesponding to the degree with which the fragment is rotated upwards and backwards. If the bone be brittle, or the force be continued after this amount of impaction has taken place, the lower fragment wdl he sphntered. The prominence of the styloid process of the ulna in these cases is the result of the shortening of the radial side of the wrist and hand, consequent upon the impaction. When the fractiwe is simple, or when it is comminuted without impaction, I agi’ee with B. W. Smith that the displacement of the lower fragment is the result of muscular action alone. This I have had an opportunity of observing in the following case. A man, 64 years of age, fell to the groimd fi’om a height of twenty-five feet. In his fall he broke the left radius just above the wrist, but also met with such serious injuries of the pelvis and abdomen, that he died in an hour after admission into the Hospital. On carefully dissecting the arm about twenty-four horns after death, I found that the radius was fractured transversely about half an inch above its lower articular end, and that the lower fragment was completely comminuted. The wrist, which presented all the signs of this fractme in a very marked, but not an extreme degree, could not be restored to its normal shape by any amount of traction that I could employ. On exposing the muscles of the limb, it was found that the supinator longus was attached to the lower, and the pronator quadratus to the upper fragment; the latter muscle being slightly lacerated at its lower part. The upper fragment was strongly pronated. The chief cause of displacement, and the main obstacle to reduction, was found to exist in the two radial extensors of the wrist, the tendons of which were excessively tense ; next to these, the special extensors of the thumb presented most tension, and then the supinator longus, which was far less tense than either of the other sets of muscles, but