633 HERNIA OF THE LUNG. pressed by tbo effusion of air, serum, or blood into the pleural sac. In such cases, tight bandaging of the chest will produce gTcat distress ; for, the lung on the ilijiu-ed side being, ah-eady rendered useless, or nearly so, as a respn-atoiy organ bv the compression, respiration is altogether canded on by the lung on the unii’ured side. If the chest be uniformly or tightly compressed, the i^e of this lung is also interfered with to such an extent, that a semi-asphyxial condition may ensue. In such cases, rather than bandaging the whole chest, the better plan is to strap up only the injured side from spine to sternum, so as to restrain its movements and leave the sound side free. The Treatment of Emphysema consists of little in addition to what is called for by the wounded lung. In many cases, indeed, the air becomes rapidly absorbed, without the necessity of any local interference. In others, again, the pressiue of a bandage may be required. If, however, the emphysema be so extensiA'c as to interfere with respiration, the external wound, if any exist, must be fr'eely opened, and scarifications made into the areolar tissue, so as to give exit to the air. I doubt whether emphysema alone can ever prove fatal. If, however, both sides of the chest be opened, it is possible that the accompanying pnemnothorax may so interfere with the due expansion of the limgs, as to produce an asphyxial condition that may end in death. Hbexia of the Lueg, oe Pxeumocele.—This is an extremely rare affection. It consists in the protrusion of a portion of the lung at some part of the thoracic walls, so as to form a tumour mider the skin. It has most frequently been met with after an external -wound, under the cicatrix of w'hich the hernial s-weUing has appeared ; but it has been kno-wn to occur from fr-actured ribs without any wound, and even fr’om violent straining dining laboin. I have seen a case in a man who gained his livehhood by playing the comet. In these cases it is probable that, the intercostal muscles and costal pleura ha-^ing been divided or ruptured, by the efforts of the patient, and not having luiited afterwards, the lung has, dining expiration, gradually insinuated, itself into the apertine so formed, until at last the hernial tiunoin has appeared. This protrusion may take place at any part of the thoracic parietes ; thus Yelpeau observed it in the supraclavicular region of a girl ; but most com- monly it occurs on one or other side of the chest. The tumour may attain a large size ; I have heard Velpeau state that he had seen one half as large as the head. It does not appear to shorten life. Almost the only case that has fallen under my observation is one that I saw in 1839, in Velpeau’s wards at La Charitfi; and as the signs of the affection were ivell marked in this case, I may briefly relate it, from notes taken at the time. A man twenty-nine years of age, left-handed, received in a duel a sword-wound at the inner side of, and a little below the left nipple ; he lost a considerable quantity of blood, but did not spit up any. The wound healed in about a fortnight, shortly after which he noticed the tumour, for which he was admitted three months and a half after the receipt of the injury. On examination, an indinated cicatrix about half an inch in length was found a little below, and to the inner side of, the loft nipple. On inspiring or cough- ing, a soft tumour of about the size of an egg appeared immediately underneath the^ cicatrix, -which it raised up ; it subsided under pressure, or when the patient ceased to inspire or to cough ; and its protrusion unght be prevented