24 GEN Eli AL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. of its use as an amnstlietic. It then rapidly gave vay to chloroform ; and so conipletely was this agent substituted for ether in this country and generally loughont Europe, that a coufusion arose in the public mind as to the real discoi-erer of Antesthesia, and Sir James Simpson, who was one of the first to employ chloroform and to ivhosc energy its general adoption was mainly due, Avas A'ery conunonly considered to be the discoverer of Amesthetics. In- some hospitals, howcA'er, and more especially in those of Boston, the birth- place of surgical Anaesthesia, the faith in Ether has ueA’er been shaken, nor its use abandoned for that of any other agent. In this country a change of pro- fessional opinion has to some extent set in, and strenuous efforts have been made since the death of the illustrious discoverer of the anesthetic properties of chloioform to decry that agent, arid to re-introduce ether' as a general anesthetic. That ether and chloroform are equally effecthe in the production of Anes- thesia, is undoubted. But the adA'ocates of the first allege that it is the safer agent of the tAvo ; whilst those of the latter assert that, admitting the greater■ safety of ether, it is equally certain that it is less convenient and less generally applicable as an Anmsthetic. This question, then, has to be examined from three aspects ;—1. As to the apiAhcability ; 2. As to the convenience ; and 3. As to the safety of the tivo Anesthetics. 1. As to AiJijlicabiiity.—There can be no doubt that in the A'ast majority of cases both are equally applicable. But there are certain cases in which ether and others in which chloroform ajApear to possess superior adA'antages. Ether is preferable in those cases in Avhich from severe shock the nerA’Ous powers are greatly depressed, and in those in AA’hich there is atony of the heart, whether fr’om fatty degeneration or from an enfeebled and dilated state of the ventricles. Chloroform appears to be more applicable in all those cases in Avhich it is necessary to maintain the anmsthcsia for a great length of time—for many hours—as in the compression of an arteiy in the treatment of anemism, and- in aU those cases in which the galA'anic cautery is used in the neighboinhood of the mouth or air-passages; the Anpoin of ether under these circumstances being liable to ignite Avith explosiA'e violence, as I haA'e seen happen. 2. As to Convenience.—In this respect, chloroform luidoubtedly possesses a A'ast superiority OA'er ether, and indeed it Avas its superiority in this respect that led so rapidly to its substitution for that agent. Snow formerly compared the two agents to a lucifer-match and a tinder-box respectively, and also to an express and a slow train, in which Ave regard convenience rather than safety. Chloroform is infinitely more convenient than ether in many Avays. By it the aneesthesia is more rapidly induced, with less struggling and mental excitement. When once induced, it is more easily maintained complete and' imbrokcn. The quantity required to produce anesthesia is far smaller. This is a most important adA'antage in midwifery and in military and naval prac- tice, Avhcre the larger bulk of the ether that is cousiuned in inducing anesthesia Avould often render its employment A'cry difficult. So also iu ordinary country practice, where Surgeons have to Avork single-handed or Avith imperfect assist- ance, the readiness Avitli Avhich anesthesia is induced by chloroform, and the