INFLAMMA TJON. ii8 thongli full; if a serous membrane be inflamed, it is small, iucompressible, and wiry ; if a fibrous tissue be the seat of disease, it is hard and full. The secretions are ai’rested or diminished in quantity; hence the urine is high-coloured and acid, containing an excess of uric acid but a marked deficiency of chlorides ; the bowels are confined, the tongue coated with a ^Yhite fur, and the mouth clammy, usually with much thirst. There is a feeling of gTeat languor, and the head is often heavy and hot. The blood in inflammation undergoes important changes, both in the liquor sanguinis and the corpuscles. In the liqiior sanguinis the proportion of albumen and of saline matter is somewhat below the natural standard, while that of the water is increased. The increased thinness of the blood was long ago pointed out by Hewson. The amount of spontaneously coagulating material—or fibrin—is increased : according to Andi-al and Gavarret, it may rise from 2| per 1000 to 10 per 1000. ’\¥hen inflammatory blood is ebawn from the body, it coagulates more slowly than healthy blood ; the coagulum also is harder and smaller, and the quantity of serum apparently greater. The surface of the coagulum is com- monly covered by a tough layer of yellow fibrinous matter, the l)uffg coat; and its upper smface is depressed in the centre, haYung elevated edges, being cwp;ped, as it is usually termed. The “buff” and “cup” were formerly much used as guides in estimating the intensity of the inflammation ; it has, how- ever, been shown that buff may occm in certain conditions of the system, as in plethora, or pregnancy, or after exercise, without the occurrence of inflam- mation ; and that the tissue affected, rather than the severity of the inflamma- tion, determines its quantity ; thus, it is greatest when the fibrous or serous tissues, at least when the mucous or tegumentary, are inflamed. . The cupped shape of the clot is in some degree dependent on the shape of the vessel into which the blood is received, being most marked when the vessel is rather narrow and deep. The l)lood~coi''pusdes, both red and white, have been aheady described as collecting in great niunbers in the vessels of the inflamed part. Does this indicate an increase of both or either of these in the general mass of the blood ? The red particles, according to Andral and Gavarret, are increased iu quantity in the early stages of inflammation ; but as the disease advances they fan below the natinal standard, as Wharton Jones and Simon have pointed out. They manifest increased adhesiveness, and a tendency to aggregation into clusters by cohesion of their flat surfaces, in blood removed fr'om the body as Avell as in that within the vessels. As to the vMte corpuscles, we know they are present in augmented numbers in the vessels of the inflamed part: whether*, hoAvever, they are really more irumerous in the blood hr inflaurmatioir, is doubted by Paget, Simorr, arrd others. That air increase of the white coiqruscles is not an absolutely distinctive characteristic of inflammation, seems indicated by their excessive formation in leucocytluemia. As the fever declines, if a favourable termination occur, the system not un- commonly relieves itself by a critical evacuation ;—^from the skin, by abundant acid perspiration ; from the kidneys, by the froe disposition of lithates in the urine ; from the bowels, by dian'hoca; and fr’om some of the mucous surfaces,