SYMPTOMS OF NEURALGIA. 895 CHAPTER XXXVIII. —♦— DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. NEUBITIS. Inflammation of the Nerves, or rather of the Neurilemma, is not of very' unfi’equent occurrence, being usually the result of rheumatism, of wounds, or of strains. When Neuritis is rheumatic, it principally affects the nerves of the- face and the lower extremity. Symptoms.—These consist of tenderness on pressure along the course of the neiwe, and severe continuous pains running down its trunk and ramifying along its branches, vdth occasional violent exacerbations, especially on moving^ or touching the part, and at night; there are usually swelling along the course- of the trunk, and some pyrexia. When chronic, this condition may readily be confoimded with neuralgia ; of which, indeed, it constitutes one variety. On examination after death, the sheath of the nerve will be found injected and swollen, and the nervous tissue softened. Treatment.—This consists in the employment of antiphlogistic means cupping or the application of leeches, according to situation, poppy or bella- donna fomentations, and local emollients. When the neuritis is rheumatic, the- acetous extract of colchicum is the best remedy ; when it is more chronic and nocturnal, iodide of potassium, either alone or in combination with sarsaparilla, may advantageously be given. NEURALGIA. Neuralgia frequently occurs in siu-gical practice, either complicating other- diseases, or as a distinct affection simulating closely various organic lesions, more especially of joints and bones. Symptoms.—The pain in neuralgia is the essential symptom, and, in fact,, constitutes the disease itself. It may be of two kinds ; either foUovdng ana- tomically the course of a nen^e and the disti’ibution of its filaments ; or affect- ing a considerable portion of the smface without reference to any special neiwe. It is of all degrees of severity, sometimes moderate, sometimes unbearable, even by those who possess the gi’eatest fortitude ; when severe, it usually comes on suddenly, with a kind of shock, and continues of a shaiqi, darting, or tearing- character, coursing along the trunk or ramifications of the affected nerve, the distribution of which may often be distinctly indicated by the direction the pain takes. It is often accompanied by other sensations, such as a tickling.