TREAT2IENT OF WOUFDED LUNG. 631 sliould be had to the lancet. In the Crimean campaign, Macleod states, that “ those cases did best in which early, active, and repeated bleedings were had recoui-se to.” In the official Ecport of the Medical and Surgical History of the Mar in the Crimea, venesection is advocated Avith equal decision as a means of arresting hajmoptysis. The An-iters state : “When haemoptysis to any con- siderable or dangerous e.xtent is present, A-enesection for the rapid induction of syncope seems not only allowable, but seems to afford the only chance of safety, and may CA’cn require to be repeated.” HoA\^ever paradoxical or even irrational it might at first sight appear to endeavour to restrain one haemor- rhage by establishing another, yet the practice seemed established as the result of experience, and its good effects could be explained by the sudden induction of syncope by the venesection, ghing time for the sealing up of the pulmonary A'cssels by the coagidation of blood Avithin them. But although this Avas the practice up to a comparatively recent period, the vicAvs of military Surgeons on this point seem now to have undergone a com- plete change ; and the experience derived from the great war of the rebellion in America and from the Maori Avar in HeAV Zealand, has led to the promulga- tion of different doctrines and the adoption of a different line of practice. In America, venesection appears to have been generally abandoned, Avhile reliance Avas placed on rest, cold, and oj)ium for the suppression of haemorrhage ; and this practice is said to have been generally satisfactoiy. In Hew Zealand, Mouat states that bleeding Avas almost entirely discarded. Longmore says that, if the patient should surviA'e, the loss of blood by venesection seems to inten-upt the process of adhesion between the pleimal siufaces, and other repara- tiA'e measures adopted by natime, Avhile it induces a condition favourable to gangi-ene, or the formation of ill-conditioned purulent effusions in large amount. In civil practice, I think that, if the patient be young and strong, if the haemoptysis be not so copious as immediately to threaten life and the dyspnoea great, relief will be afforded, and the chance of severe secondary inflammation lessened, by one free venesection. But I do not think that this ought to be repeated, unless at a later stage, to combat inflammation and to relieve dyspnoea arising fr-om the engorged state of the lung and right side of the heart. If the patient surviA^e the third day, the danger to be apprehended is no longer from hmmorrhage, but from inflammation of the lungs and pleiuitic effusion. Military Burgeons formerly recommended venesection as a means both of preA'enting and of reducing inflammation. In modem practice, hoAv- cver, there is a difference of opinion : in the Crimean Avar, there were a number of cases of recovery from lung-wounds AAuthout blood-letting, Avhile in other instances recovery Avas apparently greatly aided by free A’enesection. Long- more remarks that “ more extended statistical informatioir, Avith careful analysis of individual cases, is required before the question of the proper treatment of chest-wounds, so far as A’enesection is concerned, can be considered a settled one. In civil practice, in healthy subjects, if the inflammation be confined to the lungs, and be attended by much dyspnoea, A-enesection Avill often give mucli relief. But Avhen the dyspnoea arises from pleinitic effhsion, bleeding 'must necessarily be useless, and in some cases Avould be decidedly injinious by still nrther Aveakening the poAvers of the patient. The inflammation must also be m ated by a 1 igid diet, and by the admiuistratioir of salines and antimonials.