Fi" 1G2.—Paralysis of Hand (\yrist-Drop) after Fracture of Humerus. WrdST-BnOP AFTER FRACTURED lIUiMERUS. 4T5 the shaft of the humerus, it may happen that the truiilc of the musculo-spiral nerve, where it winds round the bone in a flat o-roove, may be so seriously damaged, cither by the fracture itself or in the subsequent formation of callus as to occasion its paralysis. So also Avhen the fractm-e is lower down, and the external condyle is broken off, the posterior interosseous branch of that nerve maybe injured. A^^icntbc main trunk is paralysed, supination is im- perfect, and extension of the hand and fingers is entirely lost; the fore-arm becomes pronated, and the hand and fingers passircly flaccid, so that a pe- culiar fonn of ivrist-clrop ensues; all the muscles supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve becoming paralysed. Some de- gi-ee of supination, howeyer, can be done by the action of the biceps. Although the extensors of the wrist and fingers have become paralysed,' yet, when the fingers are flexed into the palm (Fig. lC>2a), they can be extended rapidly, and A\ith some degree of force, from the second phalangeal articu- lations, as far as is represented in Fig. 1G2&. This limited movement of extension is due to the action of the interossei and liunbricales muscles, which, being supplied by the ulnar and median nerves, do not participate in the para- lysis that affects all the long extensors of the fingers. M. Duchenne de Boulogne maintains that the interossei muscles extend the second and third phalanges and flex the fii-st phalanx, the extensor commmiis acting only on the first phalanx. When the posterior interosseous nerve only is paralysed, the loss of supination and extension is necessarily not so complete as when the whole trunk is affected; these movements being still practicable to a limited extent, through the medium of the long supinator and the long extensor of the ’^u’ist, which are supplied by the radial branch. If the paralysis of the extensors and supinators be allowed to continue for some time, the fore-ann and hand become drawn into a state of permanent flexion and pronation, by secondary or so- called pathological shortening of the muscles that act in those directions (Fig. 1(!3). The Treaimmt of this complication of simple fr-acture of the humerus must be conducted on the following prin- ciples : 1. The support of the wrist, hand, and fingers in a hand and arm- splint, so as to prevent the tonic contraction of the flexors ; 2. Placing the limb in the mid-state between pronatioTi and supination ; and ;•>. The application of electricity (fiira- disation) to the affected muscles. In order to overcome the flexion of the hand and fingers, the splint (Fig. IGl) Fig. 1G3.—Peniianeiit Flox- Tire from P.aralysi.s after FractiU'e of Humerus. Fig. 1(!4.-Ai.ixu'atus fur Wrist-Drop after rVacturc of the Humerus.