298 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HjEMORRIIAGE. remaining exposed more or less of its two extremities, namely, its point and its head (Fig. 124). The rest of it is hidden in the strnctmns of the flap or side of the wound. The degree of pressure required to close effectually the tube of an artery is certainly much less than Surgeons generally imagine ; but in the above proceeding the amount of pressure can be regulated and increased ■when required, by the acuteness of the angle at which the needle is intro- duced and again passed out—the cutaneous and other stractiu’es of the flap seizing as the resisting medium against which the needle compresses the arterial tube. The second method of acupressime consists in taking a short sewing needle Avith a piece of tudsted iron wire attached, for the purpose of withdrawing it when necessary. This is dipped down into the soft tissues on one side of the artery ; then bridged over the vessel; then dipped doAvn again into the soft Fig. 125.—Acupressiu-e. Second Method. structimes on the other side of the vessel (Fig. 125). In doing this, care must be taken to press the end of the needle down upon the bleeding tiunk 01 tube of the artery Avith sufficient force. The third method is the one that is likely to be most frequently followed, and is upon the Avholc the most practical and the best. It consists in compressing the artery between the needle threaded with a piece of twisted iron AAire, passed below or behind it, and a loop of inelastic iron wire passed over or above it. The needle is passed as in the last cases, but on the opposite side of t e artery. The loop of iron Avire is throAvn over the point of the needle ; it is then passed across the artery, draAvn tight so as to compress the vesse , an seem-ed by a half tAvist round the eye end of the needle (Fig. 12G). In order to remove this appai’atus, all the Surgeon has to do is to pull the twisted Avu-e with which the needle is tkreaded ; tliis, in AA-ithdraAiing the needle, hberates the loop, which may then easily be removed. _ fourth method consists in dipping the needle into the tissues close to artery, then makmg a timi Auth the point, and pushing this into the soft part beyond, so as to fix it there, and thus to compress the ai'tery (Fig. 127). The Condition of the Artery after liaA'ing been subjected to acupressiue has still to be determined. Docs Fig. 127.—Aciipiessure. Fomtii Metiiod. pressiu’c of the iicedlc dividc, as the ligatm-c does, tho internal and middle coats ? or docs it merely canse them