TREATMENT OF LACERATED URETHRA. 653 patient attempt to empty it, only a few drops will issue from the urethral orifice ; but he will be seized with severe burnino-, smarting pain in the perinmum, and the ultimate CA'ils of the injury will he greatly aggi’avated, for, wherever the urine penetrates, sloughing of areolar tissue will invariably and rapidly ensue. There is this great difference between extravasation of urine from ruptured bladder and fr-om lacerated urethra : in the first case the urine escapes involuntarily fr-om the injured organ ; in the second instance, no lu'ine Avill escape from the torn lu-ethra, unless by a voluntary expulsive effort on the part of the patient. The sufferings of the patient speedily become aggravated by the retention of the urine and the distress occasioned by the distension of the bladder ; and the necessity for relief thus becomes urgent, lest by an involuntary spasmodic effort the urine be pumped -widely into the already broken down areolar tissue of the perinmum and scrotum. The ultimate results of a lacerated urethra are no less serious than the immediate effects. If the floor only of the urethra have been lacerated, lea-vrng the upper part of the wall of the canal intact, the continuity of the m-ethra -will not be lost, but a permanent traumatic stricture of the worst kind ^viiI ensue. If the m-ethra have been completely torn across, or slough as a result of the injiu-y, obliteration of a portion of the canal may take place, and an incurable urinary fistula -\riU be left in the perinmum. The Treatment consists in the early introduction of a catheter into the bladder. If this caii be done before the patient has made an attempt to pass his urine, much of the immediate danger of the case may be averted, by the prevention of urinary infiltration. The catheter, which shordd be an elastic one, must be left in the bladder for a few days. It should not be plugged, but should have a vulcanised India-rubber tube attached, so that the mine may escape as fast as secreted. If any hardness, throbbing, or other sign of in-itation occur in the perinmum, free incision should be made into the part, so as to afford a ready outlet for any urine that may have been effused. If the Siu-geon find it impossible to introduce a catheter into the bladder, the m-ethra being torn completely across, he should pass it as fiir as it will go, and then, putting- the patient in the position for hthotomy, make a free incision in the mesial line upon the j)oint of the instrument, so as to make an ojDeniug in the perinmmn that vill communicate with the deeper portion of the urethra ; any arteries that bleed fr-eely should be tied. He must then endeavour to loass T /-V r-t k 1-1 .-V ^ -.1^ 1 .m iT T.i . — urethra. This is often extremely difficult. If the floor of the urethra only ave been torn, it may be accomplished by keeping- the point of the catheter well against the upper wall of the canal; but if the urethra have been completely torn across, it will tax all the skill of the Surgeon to direct and pass the instrument into the vesical end of the canal. An ingenious plan for overeoraing the_ difficulty in such cases was suggested by T. P. Teale (senior) 0 heeds. A director is fii-st introrhic.nd fnf'n flip -nTnYiinoi _• the catheter into the bladder, through the proximal portion of the injured