ADDENDA TO VOLUAIE I. 959 J’a^e 538. 11.—COUNTER-FISSURE OP THE SKULL. For the mechanism of the production of tlie accident, I ivonld refer the- reader to Haller’s DDjwtaliovpx Ghinirgica'; and to the prize memoirs of the- Iloyal Academy of Surgery of Franee, by (^uesnay and others. Sir Charles Bell has some excellent and philosophical observations on this subject in his “Surgical Observations,” London, 181G, p. 472, et seq. He concludes by these remarks : “ As to counter-fissure he (the Surgeon), under- standing the principle, ivill comprehend ho^v a remote and weaker part of the cranium is rent when a thicker and more convex part is struck. He will not bo siu'prised that when the stronger occipital bone is struck the temples will be spaiTed out, or how, these resisting, the base may be fractimed. . . . and he sees that, although the refiected force be not so great as to burst the bones asunder, yet it injures the fine texture of the brain ; in one instance it throws out blood upon its surface ; in another it separates the dura mater ; or, in a third, it covers the brain ivith purulent matter, and that at the part dia- metrically opposite to the injury of the skull.” Page 54!). 12.—KEY'S SAV/. The instrument familiarly known as Hey’s Saw does not appear to have- been invented, though it ivas largely used and described, by Mr. William Hey,, of Leeds. He states (“ Practical Observations on Sm-gery,” London, 1814, p. 9),. that the instrument was first shown him by Dr. Oockell, of Pontefract, and that a saw, formed on the same principle, is represented in Scultetus’ Armamen- tarium Chirurgicum. In the works of Ambrose Pare (edited by Malgaigne,. Vol. II., p. 14), will be found an exact representation of the instrument, with a straight edge, as depicted by Hey, and as used at the present day. He says : “ Par icelle on peut couper de I’os (sans comprimer dessus) tant ou si pen qu’on voudra, sans estre en danger de comprimer I’os fracture sur les membranes, et par consequent sur le cerueau.” Page 559. 13.—MECHANISM OP MENINGEAL EXTRAVASATIONS. Sir Charles Bell (“Surgical Observations,” London, 181G), has iiivestigatecl and determined the method of the production of intracranial meningeal ex- travasations. He says : “ It is extraordinary that any one who has ever raised the skull-cap in dissection, and felt the strength of the universal