INJURIES OF NERVES. 339 CHAPTEE XVIII. —♦— SPECIAL INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. INJURIES OP NERVES. Contusion.—Neives ai-e often contused ; the injiny producing a tingling sensation at their extremities, and pain at the part struck. These eftects usually pass off in the coiu’se of a few minutes or hours ; but, in certain conditions of the system, more especially in the hysterical temperament, they may last for a considerable period, and even give rise to neuralgia of a very permanent character. In other cases the continuance of the symptoms appears to be less owing to constitutional than to local causes ; apparently bemg due to thicken- ing of the nem-ilemma, causing compression of the nerve, and thus producing a species of neuralgic paralysis of the parts supphed by it, which may become a som-ce of nervous imtation, leading eventually to disease of the brain or spinal cord. Puncture.—If a nerve be punctured, unpleasant consequences sometimes result, more especially in delicate women. Not only does it happen in such subjects, that the part below the puncture becomes the seat of various tingling, shooting, and burning pains, but the neuralgic condition appears to travel upwards along the proximal part of the nervous tnmk. Thus, I have more than once seen a punctm-e of one of the digital branches of the ulnar nerve produce a kind of painful paralysis of its trunk, rendering the arm nearly useless. I have seen the same effects occm- in the median nerve, from so slight a cause as the punctime of the finger by the needle. It occasionally happens in venesection at the bend of the arm, that a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve is pricked with the lancet, and that very persistent neuralgia occurs in consequence. Division.—Primary Effects. When a nerve is completely cut across, paralysis of sensation and motion occurs in aU the parts supplied by it. Consequently, if the integinty of the nerve be essential to life, as of the pneu- mo^astric, death must ensue. When the nerve is partially divided, or bruised as well as severed, as in cases of gun-shot injury, neimalgia in the parts supplied by it, and sometimes at the proximal end, is associated with the paralytic symp- toms. The patient complains of numbness or deadness in the part supplied by it, and all tactile sensibility is lost; but various anomalous painful sensations of a burning, trickling, tingling, or creeping kind are complained of. These sen- sations usually give the idea of increased heat of the part to. the patient, and are compared by him to the effect that would be produced by molten lead or boil- ing water running through it. But the sensation of heat is deceptive, for the part will be found on examination to be actually colder than natural. Thus T z 2