CAUSES OF FRACTURE. 351 CHAPTER XX. FRACTURES. The manag-ement of Fractures constitutes one of the commonest duties of the Surgeon, and hence the consideration of all that relates to their nature and treatment is of the utmost importance. A fi-acture may be defined as a sudden and violent solution of continuity in a bone; but by the term fracture it is convenient to describe other lesions, which, strictly speaking, are not comprised in the definition. The displace- ment of an epiphysis from the shaft of a bone is not really a fracture but a separation; as is also the displacement of a costal cartilage from a rib. CausEvS.—Fractures are almost invariably the result of local causes, but the liabihty to their occurrence is more or less modified by certain predisposing circumstances. Local Causes.—Fractures may occur fr’om the application of external violence, or from muscular action. External violence may be applied in two ways : directly or indfr-ectly. The worst forms of fractiue are occasioned by direct external violence, the blow crushing and splintering the bone, as by the passage of a hea’vy wheel or a gun-shot injiuy. When the bone is broken by direct violence, the fr’acture is always at the seat of injm-y, and is often complicated with considerable mis- chief to the soft parts, the result of the same force that breaks the bone. Indirect violence may break a bone in two ways. One that is more com- monly talked of than seen is by contrecoup, in which, when a blow is inflicted on one part, the shock that is communicated expends its violence on the opposite point, where the fractiue consequently occius. This form of injury is chiefly met with in the head ; and, although its occurrence has been denied, I cannot doubt it, as I have seen unequivocal instances. In the next form of indirect violence occasioning fr-actiue, the bone is broken by being snapped, as it ivere, between a resisting medium on one side, and the weight of the body on the other. Thus, a person jiunping fr’om a height and alighting on his feet, may break his legs by their being compressed between the weight of the body above and the ground below. The long bones are those which are most frequently fractm-ed in this ivay; and the fr-actiue occurs at the greatest convexity, of at their weakest point. When a person jumps from a carriage that is in motion, although the height of the fall be not great, yet its foree is considerable, the feet coming violently to the ground, while the body moves with the same velocity as that with which it was being earried onwards in the vehicle. Hence, fractiues received in this way are usually severe, and often compound or comminuted. Muscular action is not an imfrcquent cause of fracture of those bones into