FRACTURES. 390 the system^ occurring from some diseases, such as fever, scurvy, sj'philis, or cancer, or from any depressing influence, in consequence of which there is not sufficient reparative power for the production or proper development of the plastic matter, by which the fracture should be united. If this have been deposited, it may, under the influence of these constitutional causes, again become absorbed, and the fr-acturc may thus be loosened. But mere debility, ! independently of blood cachexy, will not lead to want of union in a fracture. In fact, in many very weakly children, the scrofulous or phthisical, fractures ■will unite vuth the greatest readiness, and if union be delayed for a short time it will, on the restoration of health, readily take place. Indeed, the causes that independently of local conditions, lead to non-union of a fr-actimed bone, are most obscure. In many cases no constitutional cause for the want of union can be detected, the patient being in excellent health, strong, and robust. In spontaneous fr-actures, union seldom takes place very readily or perfectly. Pregnancy is said to have a tendency to interfere vrith the proper union of a fractiu’e ; this, however, I consider doubtful, as I have had under my care, and have seen, a considerable number of cases of fr’acture in pregnant women, Avhich united in the ordinary time. BiUroth has made a similar observation. Age.—Failure of union in fr’actirres is very rare in children, and when it occurs in them is seldom remediable, unless it be the result of neglect or of improper mechanical treatment. It is more common at the earlier adult and middle ages. Union -will readily occur in aged individuals. Indeed, advanced age appears to exercise no adverse influence on the repair of fractirres. I have on two occasions, in my own practice, knoAvn very Arm and perfect consohda- tion of fr-actm-c of the shaft of the femur to take place in women of ninety years of age and upwards. The Local Causes are various and important. The anatomical condition of the fragments, as regards their vascular supply, is perhaps that on which Avant of union is most immediately dependent. For proper union to take place, it is necessary that the callus be deposited from both sides of the fr’actmu. If one fragment be so situated that sufficient blood is not sent to it for this purpose, not only may want of union, but necrosis, occur. This is exemplifled in fr’actures of the superior articular ends of the humerus and femiu. In intra- capsular fractiu'e of the anatomical neck of the hinnerus, the globular head, being detached from all its vasetdar connections, may necrose. In intra- capsular fractiu'e of the neck of the femur, the head oi the bone, still retaining some vascular connection through the medium of the ligamentum teies, has "sufficient blood furnished to it to prevent its death, but not enough to foim callus—hence fibrous union takes place. In the shafts of the long bones, the ^ degree of union will be dependent in a great measure on the conditions ot the . vascular supply to the fr-agments, through the medium of the nutritious ai'tery. The influence of the ruptinc of the nutritious artery of the bone by the hue of fracture rumiing across it, and thus interfering with the vascular supply of one of the fragments, has been investigated by Gueretin; and the occasiona occniTence of atrophy of the bone after fracture, has been shovn by Cu'iling to ( be dependent upon the inteiTuption of the supply of arterial blood throng i