925 VARICOSE VEINS. the extent of surface affected ; but Arnott has shown that the inflammation scarcely ever reaches the heart, and that the extent of vein inflamed is com- monly very limited—it not unfrequently happening that the disease proves- fatal when but a few inches are affected, as in the vessels of a stump. But a more modern pathology has shown that death in these cases is invariably due- to pytemia. Symptoms.—The diffuse phlebitis is ushered in by the ordinary symptoms of pyrexia, at the same time that pain and tenderness, with a certain amount of oedema and hardness, may manifest themselves along the course of the inflamed vessel. These symptoms, however, speedily give way to those that characterise the lowest foms of ataxic fever—such as a fluttering pulse, a brown tongue, sordes about the mouth and teeth, Avith much anxiety of countenance, diarrhoea,, vomiting, extreme prostration, delirium, and death. The symj)toms are,, indeed, due to the fonnation of pus in the vein, its admixtm’e with the blood,, and consequent poisoning of the system. The whole danger and peculiarity of diffuse phlebitis depend, I believe, upon this circumstance ; and I Avould,. therefore, refer for the consequence and treatment of this form of the affection to the chapter on Pytemia (p. 709). In phlebitis there are two great sources of danger, viz., that of embolism leading to sudden death by the plugging of the pulmonary artery in the adhesive, and of pyaemia in the diffuse form of the disease. The Treatment of this form of phlebitis resolves itself into that of its secon- dary and important constitutional condition—the pymmia to which it gives- rise (p. 728). VABIX. By Varix, or Varicose Veins, is meant a dilated condition of these vessels,, Avith hypertrophy of their coats, gmng rise to oedema, tension, weight, and pain in the parts they supply—often Avith a good deal of numbness, difficulty in motion, or loss of power in the affected limb. In other cases, their pressure- on the neiwes of the part (as when the veins of the spermatic cord are enlarged) may give rise to very severe suffering. Appeaeajtcb.—Varicose veins are tortuous, dilated, and sacculated ; they are serpentine in their course, and feel thick under the Anger. They may be- superficial or deep-seated ; when superficial, the disease is often limited to one- of the larger venous trunks of a limb, the smaUer branches not being engao-ed. Phis Ave commonl}' see to be the case in the internal saphena ; in other cases the small cutaneous A'eins alone may be affected, appearing as a close network of a purplish-blue colour under the skin, with much discoloration of parts and some oedema of the hmb ; or both sets of vessels may be implicated. ' The- deep seated varix is not by any means so common as the superficial • and when It occurs, is generally the result of the pressure of a tumom- or of some similar cause. Varicose veins, especially Avhen superficial, are very ant to inflame, Avith coagulation of the blood Avithin their sinuses. Localita^—Ihe veins of the skin and the mucous membranes are those that are most liable to varix. It is most commonly met with in the legs, and more particularly in the trunk of the internal saphena ; but any of the snperfill