FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE JlUMEliUS. 4^1 rtlletl by the head of the bone, which can be felt in it. llelow this tl^cre is a depression ; crepitus is easily produced, and there are great mobility of the loirer fragment, and shortening of the limb to the e.xtent of from three-quarters to one inch ; but the most remarkalile sign is the prominence formed by the upper end of the shaft of the humerus, ^vhich projects under the integuments, and can readily be felt under the coracoid process, especially when the elbow' is pushed upwards and rotated. The axis of the bone is also dh-ected obliquely upwai'ds and inwards towards this point. In consequence of the irritation of the nerves of the axillary plexus by this fragment, Avhich is often very sharp and angular, a good deal of pain is complained of in the arm and fingers. This sign, however, is not met with in chilchcn, owing to the greater smoothness of the fractured surfaces. Impacted Extracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus has been especially treated of by R, W. Smith in his excellent work on Fractures. In this injury, the superior fr'agment being penetrated by the inferior one, the continuity of the bone and its firmness are in a great measure preseiwed; hence, the usual signs of fr’actiu’s, such as mobility, displacement, and crepitus, am not readily obtainable, and indeed the signs of this injury are chiefly negative. Thus, there are impairment of motion, slight deformity about the joint and upper part of .the arm, and some crepitus ; but the latter is only obtainable with difficulty, and by firmly grasping the head of the bone whilst the elbow is being rotated. Tlie Tr.eatment to be adopted in these cases should be carried out in accordance with the following principles and details : 1. To bandage the fingers, hand, and arm so as to prevent congestion and oedema of the limb ; 2. To place a pad in the axilla to act as a fulcrum ; 3. To bandage the elbow closely to the side so as to overcome the displace- ment imvards of the upper end of the shaft, Avhich ■wfill be thro’wn outwards by the axiUary pad ; 4. To cany the elbow (w^hilst it is being bandaged to the side) forwards across the chest, in advance of the lateral median fine, in order to comiteract the forward displacement of the upper end of the shaft, and thus to throAV it backwards tow'ards the head of the humerus ; 5. To apply a sling so as merely to support the hand and wrist, allow'ing the elbow to hang unsupported, and thus letting the weight of the arm counteract the displacement upwards (Fig. lo'j). By these means the triple disj)lacement of the upper end of the lower portion of the shaft imvards, forwards, and upw'ards will be counteracted. The w'hole is then to be steadied by means of a leather or gutta-percha cap, carefully moulded and fitted to the shoulder and arm. As the bruising and extravasation are often very considerable in these cas'es, it is as well to apply evaporating lotions in the first instance. In the management of some of these fractures, I have foimd a very coii- enient apparatus in a leather splint about two feet long by six inches broad. Fig. 159.—A])paratus for Fracturu of tlie Neok of the Uumenis.