amputation through the knee-joint. 93 for four or five indies, then across the limb, and cutting upwards to a point on the opposite side con-esponding to that of entry. The integuments and the patella are then dissected from the front of the joint (Fig. 59). The ai-ticulation is thus opened; the ligaments ai-e then successively didded, the limb being forcibly bent; and a posterior flap is formed by cutting with a determined sweep fr-om behind forwards, or by dis- secting down behind the bones and then cutting backwards. The flap should be about 2^ to 3 inches long. If made shorter than this, it is apt to retract up the back of the thigh. Indeed, in aU cases there is a great tendency to this, even when the flap is of the length above given. The popliteal artery is divided, and, vith the ex- ception of the articular vessels, is the only one requiring ligatui-e. The management of the patella is an important question ; some Siu’geons advocating its removal, and others its preservation. I think that it is decidedly better to leave than to remove this bone. If left, it forms an important addition and protection to the end of the stump. If it be removed, not only are these advantages lost, but the flap be- comes so thinned and weakened as to incm- danger of gangrene. I have practised the operation both Avays, and have from my experience found it most advantageous to leave the patella. There is ouly one objection to this ; and that is the chance of the patella being drawn up, as occasionally happens, upon the anterior part of the thigh. This is best prevented by turning up the. flap, and cuttuig across the tendinous insertion of the quadriceps extensor. About the management of the cartilaginous surface of the femur in these amputations, there is a difference of practice. Some Siu’geons prefer leaAing it; others, again, saw it off. If the articular siu-face be sound, the cartilage had better be left, as thus the cancellous structui’e is not opened, and one source of pya;mia is avoided. It the cartilages be eroded or otherwise diseased, they should be removed. This I generally do, after the disarticulation has rig. 09b.—Aiiixnit.itiou tlivmigli the Kiico, hy Long Anterior Flap.