777 MICROSCOPIC STRUCTURE OF CANCER. cell-infiltration, implicating the suiTonncling parts, and in this mass of snic round cells it is somewhat difficult to discern the exact process by ^^duch the tumour OTOWS. It is this that has led to the gi’eat diversity of opinion as to the histological origin of cancer. In the central parts of cancers, as of sarco- mata, degenerative changes are almost invariably found. These Unnom-s yield on scraping or pressure a miUcy fluid, termed the Gancer-jimc, in which cells and granules are found in varying proportions. The gi-anules are mostly fatty, and m-e the result of fatty degeneration of the cells of the tumoim. This milky juice, it must be observed, is not absolutely characteristic of cancer. It is yielded by the lymphadenomata and by all the sarcomata, provided at least twenty-foiu- hoiu-s elapse after their removal before they are examined. At one time tlie cells of cancer were looked upon as characteristic of the disease (Fig. 304), and the cancer-cell was spoken of as something absolutely peciihar and diagnostic; it is now known, however, that the exact deter- mination of the nature of a gi-owth can only be made by careful examination, not of the cells only, but also of the stroma and of the relation of the cells to the stroma. The mode in which the tumoiu’ invades sur- rounding parts is also an impor- tant aid in determining the nature of the growth. The Cells of a cancer are extremely variable in shape and size. They may be romid, caudate, and even fusiform. Many varieties of form are usually found in the same tiimoiu', but occasionally great unifonnity prevails. The size may vary from ^-gVo inch. The nuclei are oval and highly refracting, often placed excentrically ; they are of considerable size and frequently double, while in some cases five or six may be found in the same cell. They contain bright shining nucleoli. The size of the cells is not indicative of the variety of the cancer. Thus, in some scirrhous tumours the cells may be small, and in others large, and the same may be said of encephaloid. The distinction between scirrhus and eneephaloid is made not by the size of the cells, but by the relative proportions of cells and stroma in the mass. AH cancer-cells are prone to early degenera- tion, usually becoming filled with fat-granules, and ultimately breaking dovm and in great part disappearing, so that what was once a considerable mass of cells may be represented by a few granules. This is most marked in sciii’hus. In other cases the cells undergo colloid degeneration. A globule of colloid matter first appears in the cell, pushing the nucleus to one side. Finally the nucleus disappears, and the whole cell becomes filled with the colloid matter, and at last bursts. It is this change occurring in an encephaloid cancer that is supposed to give rise to the so-called colloid cancer. Creighton has lately Fig. 304. A. Cells from a large Encephaloid of the Breast. B. Cells from SeuTlms of tlie Breast. o. Stained. h. Unstained. (454 diam.)