ENTRANCE OP AIR INTO VEINS. 338 This appears to me to be a very valuable jDiece of advice, and to be the most effectual way of carrying out the indication. The patient should, at the same time that the compression is being exercised on his axillary arteries and aorta, or, if it be prefeiTed, as more convenient* and easier than the last, on his femorals, be placed in a recumbent position as in ordinary fainting, so as to facilitate the afflux of blood to the head. The compression of the axillary and femoral arteries may readily be made by the fingers of two of the assistants who ai’e present at every operation of importance. 2. For the fulfilment of the second indication, that of maintaining the action of the heart until the obstruction in the capillaries of the lungs can be overcome or removed, artificial respiration should be resorted to as the most effectual means of keeping up the action of that organ. For the purpose of keeping up artificial respiration, Silvester’s method is the best, or the Humane Society’s bellows may be used ; or the Sm-geon may iifflate Avith his mouth. Before inflating the lungs, it will be necessary to remove everything that compresses the chest, or interferes in any way vdth the free exercise of the respiratory movements. Friction with the hand over the pra3cordial region, and the stimulus of annnonia to the nostrils, may at the same time be resorted to. 3. The third indication—that of overcoming the obstruction in the pulmonic capillaries—would probably be the best fulfilled by the means adopted for the accomphshment of the second, atz., artificial inflation of the lungs. That the action of respiration, if kept up sufficiently long, mil enable the capillaries of the lungs to get rid of the air contained in them, appears to be a fact; for I have experimentally observed that, if a certain quantity of air be spontaneously introduced into the jugular A'ein of a dog, and artificial respiration be then established, and maintained for half or three-quarters of an hour, a very small quantity indeed, if any, wW\ be found, on killing the animal, in the cavities of the heart, or in the branches of the pulmonary vessels. I am aware that this is not altogether conclusive of the fact, as the air might be dissolved in the blood, or might still exist in the capillaries of the lungs, although none might be found in the larger branches of the pulmonary artery ; but still it seems to me that we can hardly account for the lai’ge quantity of air that will disappear when artificial respiration is kept up, in any other way than that some, if not all of it, passes out of the capiUaiy vessels into the air cells of the lungs.