944 HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. lias been tlie anterior part of the thigh, just below Poupart’s ligament, close upon and almost in connection Avith the femoral vessels. In a case of this description, which was sent to me by Edwards of Antigua, the patient, a gentle- man of that island, had suffered for some years from a chronic solid oedema ■o one of his legs, apparently dependent upon the pressure exercised upon the saphena and femoral A'eins by an elongated indolent tumour just below Pou- part s hpment, and over the course of these vessels. This tumour had existed li-om childhood, and presented the signs that have just been given as charac- teristic of the disease under consideration. It was removed hy an incision parallel to Poupart’s ligament, some careful dissection being required to sepa- rate it from the femoral sheath, more particularly towards the inner side, Avhere n prolongation of the tumour dipped down by the side of the femoral vein, compressing that vessel, and so disposing to the occurrence of the oedema of the hmb. After removal, the tumom- was found to consist of a mass of condensed cellulo-adipose tissue, with much vascular structm’c intermixed, •and some small cysts. The cedema gradually subsided ; and when the patient left England, about three months after the operation, the hmb had nearly regained its normal size, being but little larger than the sound one. H.ffi:MOKRHAGIC DIATHESIS. In connection with diseases of the arteries, it may be stated that in some constitutions it is found, though fortunately very rai-ely, that there is a great tendency to very troublesome, indeed almost uncontrollable bleeding, fr-om trivial woimds ; life being put in jeopardy, or even lost, by the hasmondiage resulting fr-om the extraction of a tooth, the opening of an abscess, lancing the gums, or some equally shght unimportant surgical procedure. The blood does not flow in a jet, but continues to trickle in an oozing stream, apparently from the capillaries rather than fr-om the arteries of the part. In these cases also there is a great tendency to inordinate ecchymosis fr-om very slight contusion, the areolar tissue becoming rapidly fiUed with fluid uncoagulable blood. It is important to observe that by the “Htemon-hagic Diathesis” is expressed a constitutional condition, that is unconnected with, and independent of, •any physiological irritabihty or pathological change in the larger arterial trunks. Causes.—The HcemorrJiagic Diathesis appears to be connected with or dependent upon one of thi-ee distinct conditions. 1. It may be congenital, and not mifrequently is hereditai-y, especially in the male line. In some families the males only have been affected, and the diathesis has been transmitted in the second or third generation through females ; who, themselves being unaffected by it, hai’e had male children who Avere the subjects of the disease. A very remarkable genealogical account of ■such a family has been drawn up by C. Heath. This diathesis occiu-s in jiersons othei-Avdse robust and strong, without any appai-ent derangement of health, or morbid condition, innate or acquired, to account for it. In such ■cases the family peculiarity is usually recognised, and Avell knoAvn to those liable to it.