i68 ULCERATION. VABJCOUS FOEMS OF ULCEE. IV iieu ulcers occur in the sldu, as the result of nou-specific disease, they may be arranged under the following heads : the Healthy ; the Weak ; the Indolent; the Imtable ; the Inflamed ; the Phagedeenic or Sloughing ; the Varicose ; and the HasmoiThagic. Besides these varieties, each of Avhich is marked by distinct characteristics, various other fomis of ulceration depending on specific causes, as the Syphilitic, Scrofulous, Liipoid, Cancerous, &c., are- met with ; all of which will be treated under their respective Chapters. The varieties presented by ulcers are by no means dependent on local con- ditions merely, though these infiuence them gveatly, but are in a great measiue owing to constitutional causes. Indeed, the aspect of the ulcer, and the character of its granulations and of its discharge, are excellent indications of the state of health and of the general condition of the patient, as well as of the local disease. Healthy or Purulent Ulcer.—This may be considered the type of the disease. It presents'a circular or oval smface, slightly depressed, thickly studded with small gTanulations exuding laudable pus, and having a natural tendency to contract and heal. It is the object of all our treatment to bring- the other fomis of ulcer into this condition. Troatment.—In the management of the healthy ulcer, the treatment should be as simple as possible ; ■water-dressing and the pressime of a bandage usually enabling it readily to cicatrise. Sometimes, however, as has already been stated, the healing process is retarded or aiwested in consequence of the extent of the idcer. In such cases, the transplantation of cuticle ■\\nll, by afibrding centres of cicatrisation, expedite ciue. According to Lister, the application of the antiseptic gauze and protective, in the maimer described m speaking of the treatment of abscess (p. 150), has also been found most efficacious in promoting the healing of ulcers of long duration. The strength of the solution of carbolic acid should be low (about 1 iii 40), so as to avoid undue initation. "Weak Ulcer not uncommonly occurs from emollient applications hai'ing'^ been continued for too long a time in the last vai’iety of the disease ; the granulations then becomhig high and fiabby, "with a semi-transparent appear- ance about them, and sometimes rising in large, exuberant, gelatinous, reddish- looking masses aboi'e the siu’face of the sore. These high granulations ha'^e a feeble -^fitality, and readily slough. The Treatment of this form of ulcer consists in keeping the part elevated and carefully bandaged, and applyuig an astringent dressing to the sore, such as the “ red wash,” or a Aveak solution of the sulphate ot copper or of zinc, according to the folloAAing formula ;—Sulphate of zinc, sixteen grains ; com- pound tincture of lavender and spirits of rosemary, of each tAVO drachms ; Avater, eight ounces. This Avill be foimd a most useful application ; and the granulations may be touched fi'om time to time AAith nitrate of sihci. Indolent or CaUous Ulcer.—This is ahvays veiy chronic. It is situated upon the outer side of the loAver extremity, between the ankle and calf, and most freauentlv occurs in men about the middle period of life. It is deep and UMU tin —oo'