464 DISLOG ATION,'^. joints some dislocations will, if left nm-cduccd, be attended with less e^■il consequences to the patient than others. Thus, in the mhjlenoid dislocation of the shoulder and'the sdaUc of the hip, the limb will reeover itself to a greater extent than in the other fonns of the same kind of iiiiury aflectino- these joints. ° Treatment.—hx cases of very old and inemediable unreduced dislocation, much may be done by means of regularly conducted passi^•e movements to increase the mobility of the part, and by means of friction and warm douches to relieve the tension and painful stiffness. In cases not so old, but in which some time has elapsed since the occurrence of the dislocation, two questions always present themseh'es to the Siu-geon :—1. Is it possible to replace the dislocated bone ? 2. Is it desirable or prudent to attempt reduction ? The possibility of reducing the dislocation uill depend partly upon the joint that is dislocated and the nature and extent of the dislocation, but chiefly on the length of time dining wliich the bone has been out of place. Disloca- tions of the orbicular joints generally can be reduced at a much later period than those of the ginglymoid ; those of the shoulder can be reduced after a longer lapse of time than those of the hip. The subglenoid dislocation of the shoulder and that of the hip on the dorsum ilii are capable of reduction at a later period than the other luxations of the same joints. The latest period at which reduction is possible has been variously estimated by different Singeons. Sir A. Cooper gives three months for the shoulder and eight weeks for the hip. As a general statement, this was no doubt tolerably correct at the time when it was made, although reduction had been effected at later periods than those given by Cooper. Thus Breschet reduced a dislocation of the hip at the 78 th day, and Travers at the fifth month. But we may now go far beyond this as the limit of possible reduction. Brodhiu'st has reduced the shoulder on the 175th day ; Smith (U.S.) in one case at the seventh month, in another at ten months and a half; Blackman of Cincinnati, a dislocation of the femur on the dorsum ilii at six months ; Dupiems of the Havana, one at over six mouths, in a boy, and this without chloroform ; and E. W. Smith, after nine months had elapsed. The Obstacles to the Reduction of old-standing dislocations are rather pathological, than physiological and anatomical as in the case of recent displace- ments. They are of several distinct kinds :—1. The powerful tonic contraction of the shortened and displaced muscles ; 2. The organic changes that have taken place in these muscles, aiisiug partly from their contraction of the tissue thrown out to repair the laceration, partly firom a kind of rigid atrophy, the consequence of inflammatory action and of disease ; 3. Adhesions that form between the lacerated capsule and the muscles and the displaced head of the bone ; 4. Lastly, as a more remote effect, pathological changes in the articu- lating- surfaces themselves, by which their shape becomes altered and the socket shallowed, contracted, and perhaps ultimately obliterated by fibroid deposits. overcome these obstacles a consideiable amount of foice must b^ used, as adhesions and contractions have to be stretched and toin asundci. This is effected by the multiplying pulleys and by mauipulation undci chloro- form. In employing the necessary force, care must be taken to piotect tlic.