TUMOURS. 744 V Tn f ™ «><= of co„- btuctioiis of portiom of tho clncta of glandular stmotures, associated tvith the hypertrophy and resh grotvth of tubular formations, a view which satisfae- withhi '"flwnr S “ opitheliiuu and other adenoid struetures nithin them. Some of the secondary cysts associated with tlie papillary grow hs apl»m to result from the cohesion of adjoining masses of pa,illary Btmctme, and thus present cavities hiicd with epithelium, similar to that winch lines the parent cyst and the papillary mass itself. The intracvstic growths themselves appear to be derived from the superficial strata of the stroma of the cyst-wall; and, as they arise by protrusion into tho ca\-ity of the cyst, they are necessarily covered by the same epithelium which lines the latter. Villous growths are also fomid scattered in patches on the inner surface of the cyst-wall. They are always highly vascular, consisting almost entirely of loops of V essels covered by a layer of epithelium. These are intimately con- nected with the development of gland-structures. The teim P't oliferous is also applied to those cysts in which solid intracystic growths are found, as in the proliferous cysts of the mamma. The growths projecting into these cysts assume a lobulated or cauliflower-like form, and in structiu’e are found rudely to resemble the normal structure of the mamma. These “intracystic” growths may cause by their increase in size the gTadual absorption of the more fluid contents, until, at last, their development is arrested by the cyst-waU. The tumour would then merely resemble an ordinary adenoma of the mamma surrounded by a distinct capsule. The Sanguvieo'us Cyst, or Hcn-matoma, is a peculiar variety of tho simple form, and has been described by Paget as principally occurring about the neck, the parotid, the anterior part of the thigh, the leg, the shoulder, and the pubes. It is especially characterised by containing fluid blood, more or less altered in appearance. He describes these cysts as being formed in three possible ways ; either by hEemorrhage into a previously existing serous cyst, by transformation fr’om a nm'sms, or by a vein becoming occluded and dilating into a cyst. I have seen a large hasmatoma on each ear of a lunatic. The contents were semi-solid coaguhun. These sanguineous cysts may sometimes resemble in general appearance encephaloid disease. A case of this kind was sent to me by Hemy Bennet—a tumoin of about the size of an orange, of nodulated appearance, existing in the leg of a woman below the knee, where it had been gradually increasing in size for about a couple of years. So close was the resemblance to malignant disease presented by the tumoin, that the limb had been condemned for amputation by some Siu’geons who had previously seen the case ; as, however, the growth, oh examination, proved to be a sanguineous cyst, as its walls were thin and adherent, and as it extended too deeply into the ham to admit of ready remoA'al, I reduced it by successive tappings, and then, laying it open, alloAved it to granulate from the bottom. When iwacticablc, hoAvever, the cyst- should ahvays be dissected out. In seA^eral cases recently reported, it has been found that the so-called blood- cyst, or haematoma, Avas in reality a sarcoma, the structure of Avhich had been broken doAvn by Immorrhage. See “ (Sarcomatous Blood-cysts.” The term Hcmiatoma or Blood-cyst is also aiAplicd to those cysts that result