DIAGNOSIS OF INTRACRANIAL EXTRAVASATION. 559 and some continuance of consciousness, and then coma gradually sui^erveuing. The patient is concussed or stmmed as usual, after the receipt of a blow on the head ; from this he quickly rallies, and then symptoms of compression set in, and gTadually increase in intensity. He becomes ch-owsy and dull, with a slo-sv and labouring pulse, dilated and sluggish pupils, and a tendency to slow^ respiration ; as the compression increases, complete stupor at length comes on, with stertor in breathing, and there is either general paralysis, or hemiplegia of the side opposite to the seat of injury. ’When the symptoms run this regular course, it is probable that the extrava- sation results from injury of one of the meningeal arteries or large venous sinuses ; that the extravasation is confined to the membranes of the brain ; and that there is no laceration of the substance of this organ. This maybe termed the Meningeal Extravasation ; it most commonly arises from ruptirre of the middle meningeal artery, which, from its situation in a deep canal in the parietal bone, is peculiarly apt to be torn in injiu’ies of the side of the skull. ]\Iore commonly, however, the patient never recovers his consciousness after having been stumied, the symptoms of concussion speedily passing into those of compression. In these cases the paralysis is commonly incomplete, often hemiplegic, and is associated mth twitching of the hmbs or convulsive move- ments of the body generally, and much restlessness with incoherent muttering : the pupils are sometimes contracted, sometimes dilated, and occasionally squint- ing is observed. It is especially when there are convulsions, that the pupils are observed to he in different conditions ; and I have most frequently noticed the pupil dilated on the side that is most convulsed. The extravasation is probably connected with and dependent on laceration or disorganisation of a portion of the brain, and may consequently be termed the Cerebral Extrava- sation. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of these two forms of extravasation from one another is important, as it is in the meningeal only that any operative pro- cedure can be successfully undertaken ; and it may usually readily be effected by attention to the symptoms just detailed. The diagnosis between the compression from extravasation and that from depressed lone or inflammatory effusions ivithin the shidl, is easily made. In the case of depressed fracture, the symptoms of compression continue uninter- ruptedly from the very first, and proper examination of the skull wiU always lead to the detection of the injured bone. When inflammatory effusions, whether of pus, lymph, or seram, exercise undue 23ressiu’e upon the brain, the signs of compression are preceded by symptoms of cerebral inflammation, and arc accompanied by a good deal of pyrexia, by quick piulse and hot skin ; the character of the scalp-wound hkewise, and the separation of the pericranium Avhen pus is effused, enable us to distinguish this condition fr’om that in winch the pressme is the result of extravasated blood. From apoplexy, the diagnosis is not always easily made, more particularly when there is no evidence that the head has been injured. I could give nume- rous instances of this. The follorving will suffice. A man was brought to University College Hospital in a state of profound coma, in which condition ho had been found lying in the street. There was no evidence of injm-y about the head, beyond a bruise, which had probably been rccei^’ed when'he fell. The