42 AMPUTATIONS. ^ eiy essential service to the patient. Teale advises, howcA-er, that the whole pressure be not borne by the stmnp, bnt that it be reduced to one-half the remainder being distributed in the usual way on the upper part of the limb and trunk : thus not only relieving the stump, but securing gi-eater steadiness of gait and firmness of step. In the upper extremity, howe’i'er, no direct lU’essurc is made upon the end of the stump in the adaptation of artificial limbs ; hence, in amjmtations of the fore-arm or arm, a thickly covered stump is not so much the object of the Siu-geon as in the leg and thigh. In the former instances, therefore, the rectangular appears to possess no advantage over the double flap method, so far as the after-utihty of the stump is concerned. Teale also claims as advantages of his method that there is provided a free de- pendent opening for the exit of discharges, and that when healed the cicatrix is far removed from the ends of the bones, being drawn up above and behind them. But, whilst fully admitting the advantage possessed by the rectangular method in the formation of a well-cushioned stump, especially in the lower extremity, we must not close our eyes to certain disadvantages Avhich appear to me to be inseparable from it. The disadvantage consists in the necessity of sawing the bone at a higher point when one long flap only is made, than when two shorter ones of more equal length are fashioned. Thus, for instance, in an amputation of the thigh for injiuy or disease of the knee-joint, the long rectangular flap in an adult woidd require to be about eight inches in length, and the femur must consequently be sawn at least as far as this above the patella; whereas, in the ordinary double-flap amputation, two shorter flaps, each about four inches in length, ^vill be fomid sufficient to cover in the bone, which may consequently be sami at a proportionately lower point. Thus the rectangular method contravenes one of the best-established principles in amputation, viz., not to remove the limb at a higher point than is absolutely necessary, the danger to life increasing with every inch that is removed : nor can it be considered to be advantageous in those cases in which length of stump is essential to the after-comfort and utility of the patient. Moreover in many injinles of the hmbs requiring amputation, the soft parts are often torn in such a way that a good covering may be got for the stump below the knee or elbow by short double flaps, or even by the circular method, Avhen there would be no possibility of fashioning a long flap fr’om uninjm’ed soft parts below' those joints; and the increased risk of high amputation woidd have to be encoimtered. In amputations for malignant disease, also, the long flap, which has to be cut in close proximity to the morbid growth, w'ould run a far greater risk of infiltration than would tw'o shorter ones taken higher up in the limb : the bone in both cases being sawm at the same level. Should imioii by the first inteution fail, and suppuration set in, in the rectangular amputation, the thick fleshy mass which enters into the conformation of the long flap becomes a soimce of great inconvenience, bulging out fr-om under the skin, and requiring considerable management in the after-treatment, Spence has devised a modification of Tcalc’s method, by wfiich he obtained aU its advantages by a much simpler operation. He docs not make a posterior flap, but compensates for it by retracting the soft parts fr'om the bones to an extent equal to its length. The anterior flap is made a little longer than the