WOUNJJS OF THE HEART. 635 riio Rro(/nosis of cases of injury of the pericardium is uccossarily tcit unfavourable. The heart may become choked by the iutrapericardial extra- ■vasation of blood or the inflammatory eflusion. The Treatment of these cases of wound of the pericardium presents nothin": siiccial. It must he conducted on those ordinary medical principles that i.-uide us in the maua.o-euient of similar cases arising from other than traumatic causes. A^'ouxJ),s OF THE Hfart.—The heart may receive a wound which does not penetrate through the walls ; or one or more of its cavities may be opened by the ao-ent that inflicts the injmy. Most commonly the wound is inflicted fiy stab or gun-shot, and then generally no foreign body is lodged in the cardiac cavities or substance. But in some instances bullets, as yell as pieces of stick, needles, iron pins, and other substances, have been lodged and encysted in the substance of the ventricles. In the vast majority of cases, woiuids of the heart are immediately fatal, but they are not necessarily or invariably so. Much will depend on whether they penetrate or not into the cavities, and on the extent of the injury that the heart has sustained. Won-Penetrating Wounds may be fatal at once from direct shock to the heart; or the patient may sur-^dve a few hours or days and then die of peri- carditis ; or he may recover and live for years, as in a case reported by West of Birmingham, in Avhich the man lived for four and a half years. After death, enclences of extensive and severe pericarditis Avere found, and there Avas a linear cicatrLx half an inch long in the anterior part of the right A'entricle. Penetrating Wounds of the Heart are almost invariably at once fatal from loss of blood and shock to the organ and system. This is especially the case if the cavities be largely opened, or much of the heart-substance destroyed. But there are many exceptions to this general laAV of fatahty. Jamain has collected 84 cases in AA'hich people have lived for considerable periods after haAing received a Avound of the heart. Of these, in 35 cases the right ventricle was Avounded, and the sufierers lived fi’om four and a half hours to twenty-three days. In 19 cases the injmy Avas to the left ventricle; and of these life was prolonged to periods varying from half an hour, in two cases, to six months in one instance. Both A’entricles were wounded in Aa'C cases in patients li\'ing from one hour to nine and a half months ; the right aiuicle in seven cases, the patients Imng from seven hours to tAventy days ; the left auricle in tAvo cases, in Avhich the patients lived respectfrely one and tAvo days. In many cases, the patient has been knoAvn to walk or to run some considerable distance after the receipt of the injmy. Ollivier and )Sauson have collected 29 cases of penetrating wounds of the heart, Avhich did not prove fatal in the first forty-eight hours after the receipt of the injmy. On analysing these, it Avould appear that the rapidity of death depends greatly on the direction of the AVOund and the part of the organ injured. When the Avound is parallel to the axis of the heart, it is not so speedily fatal as Avhen in a transverse direction, and Avounds of the aiuicle are more immediately folloAved by death than those of the ventricle ; the irregular contraction of the different planes of muscular fibre that enter into” the formation of the Avail of the ventricle tending to obstruct the free passage of