29 ESMAKCU'S METHOD. wthonfc a pad. A piece of card slioidd be inserted beneath the screw of the tourniquet to save the skin from being pinched. The most perfect n^ethod, however, that has yet been invented, is that of Esmarch, of Kiel, which is tPus caiTied out. An elastic bandage is applied spirally from the lower extremity of the hmb upwards to the point at which the tourniquet is to be put on.^ ihe toiu’iiiquet consists of a stout piece of India-i’ubbei tubing about 4 in. in diameter and 2 ft. in length, having a hook fixed to one end and an eye to the other. This is stretched and wound firmly round the limb two or three times. It often happens that the hook does not meet the eye exactly as it is wanted to, so that either an extra tium of the tube must be put roimd the limb, or the former tons imduly relaxed. This may be obviated by replacing the hook and eye by two pieces of stout tape bound on to the end of the India-rubber tube. The tube can then be apphed with exactly the amount of force required, and seciu-ed by tying the two pieces of tape together. On removing the elastic bandage fi’om below the tommiquet, the limb will be found to be absolutely bloodless, even the bones very frequently yielding no blood on being cut. With the exception of the elasticity of the skin and the retraction of the muscles, the operation exactly resembles one on a dead body. In this state, all vessels of any size can be seen and tied before the tourniquet is removed. On removing the tourniquet, when the blood retimis to the wounded part, very free oozing will set in, which often takes some time to arrest by means of cold and exposure to the air. Thus it may happen that the patient loses as much blood as if Esmarch’s method had not been employed. Various objections have been raised to Esmarch’s bloodless method. It has been stated that it causes sloughing of the flaps and increases the tendency to secondary ha3morrhage ;after large amputations, by umiatiually augmenting the proportion of blood in the body, and so giving rise to increased arterial tension. Neither of these statements is supported by experience. A more rational objection against it is that when the limb is infiltrated with the products of inflammation, or when perhaps clots exist in the veins, these may be driven on into the circulation by the application of the elastic bandage. Although no case of such an accident Fig. 3.—Esinaroli’s Jletliod.