428 SPECIAL FliACTUMES. f Shape of the Hip is evidenced by some flattening of the part, the trochanter not being so prominent as usual. This process is also approximated to the anterior superior spine of the iliimi ; and, on rotating the hmb, it is felt to move to and fro under the hand, not describing the segment of a circle so distinctly as on the sound side. The circle described by the trochanter on the injimed side is much smaller than that on the sound side. In the sound limb, the trochanter describes the segment of a circle havin" a radius equal to the length of the head and neck of the bone. On the injured side, the circle has a radius equal only to the length of that portion of the neck that still remains attached to the shaft of the bone. During this examination crepiius will usually be felt, though this occasionally i^ veiy indistinct and even absent, more especially if the limb be not well dramx doAvn at the time it is rotated, so as to bring the fractmed smfaces into apposition ; and much^am is produced by any movement of, or pressure upon, the joint. The Attitude of the Limb is so peculiar, as in general to indicate at once to the Siu’geon what has happened. There is a striking appearance of help- lessness about it. As the patient is lying on his back in bed, it is everted ; shortened somewhat, with the knee semi-flexed ; on requesting him to hft it up, he makes ineffectual attempts to do so, and at last ends by raising it with the toe of the opposite foot, or with his hands. When he is taken out of hed and placed upright, the injimed hmb hangs uselessly, with the toes pointing downwards, and the heel raised and pointing to the iimer ankle of the somid side, the patient being luiable to rest upon it (Fig. 174). In some cases, how- ever, after the fractimc has occiUTed, the patient can hft the limb somewhat, but with much exertion, from the couch on which he is lying ; or can even manage to walk a few paces, or to stand for a few minutes upon it, with much pain and difficulty. This is owing either to the cervical reflec- tion of the capsule being untorn, or else to the fr’ag- ments not being separated, having become locked into one another ; and it usually occiu’s in those eases hi which the other and more characteristic signs of this fmetm-e are not well marked. Eversion of the limb is almost an invariable accom- paniment of this fractiu’e. It is most marked in those cases in which the shortening is most considerable. This eversion has usually been attributed to the action of the external rotator muscles, which are inserted into the upper end of the lower fragment. But I eamiot con- sider this as the only, or indeed the principal cause of this position ; for, not only is it very difficult to imder- stand how these muscles can rotate outwards the limb after their centre of motion has been destroyed by the fr-actm-e of the neck of the femim, them action being rather in a direction backwards than rotatory under these cir- cumstances ; but we find that the limb falls into au everted position in those cases in which, the fructm’e being in the shaft, and altogether below' the in- Fig. 174.—Attitude of Limb in Intraoapsular Fi'ac- ture of tlie Neck of the Tliigh-Bone.