TUMOUnS. 740 and thou closely resomblins epithelioma. Sebaceous cysts Avhich have uuder- gouc this change may, however, readily be distinguished fi-om malignant gioAvths by a micioscopical examination ot their exudations or dchris; these consisting of pus and healthy epithelium, mixed up with fatty matters more or less disintegrated. Diagnosis.—The only diseases -with which these tumours can be confounded are abscesses and fatty growths. From an abscess an encysted sebaceous tumour may be distinguished by its history, slow growths, situation, elasticity,- and mobility, and the existence of the dilated orifice of the sebaceous duct, through which some of the contents can be scpieezcd, the microscopical exami- nation of which will serve to confim the diagnosis. Yvom. fatty tumours these growths may be diagnosed by their firmer and more regular feel: and in case Fig. 274.—Large Atliennatous Cyst from the Bade, simulatiBg Fatty Tiunoiu*. (Half the natural size. i I of doubt, by the evacuation and examination of their contents. Sometimes the cysts may be lobulated so as closely to resemble a fatty tumom- (Fig. 274). But even in these cases they may be distinguished by the Surgeon pressing on the edge of the tumour ; if cystic it will remain fixed, and the finger can be pressed through it; if a lipoma it will roll away. The Treatment of a tumour of this kind simply consists in its removal, after which it is never reproduced, unless a small portion of the cyst-wall have been left behind. So long as these tumours are small, and do not give rise to deformity or inconvenience, they may be left Avithout surgical interference. But when large, and more particularly when they haA'e become inflamed, they j should be removed. The method of operation vrill vary according to their situation and the thickness of their walls. When situated on the scalp, where the cyst is dense and tough, the tumour may very readily be removed by transfixing the upper part of it and the skin covering it with a scalpel, squeez- ing out the atheroma, and then seizing the edge or bottom of the cyst-wall , with forceps and pulling it out. lu this little operation there are tAvo points that require attention ; first, the base of the cyst should ncA’cr be transfixed ; and, secondly, no attempt at dissection should be made : if either of these precautions be neglected, troublesome brnmoirhage may ensue. No dressing ,| is required after the operation, beyond a piece of dry Cotton-Avool laid on the | wound, AA'hich aauII generally heal by the fii’st intention. Should it not do so, | Avater-dressing should be applied. When these tumours occur upon the scalp, a large munber may be removed at one sitting ; as, hoAveA'er, there is alwajs some danger of erysipelas following operations in this situation, it is only pnrdent to select a favourable season of the year, and not to operate if the