CANCER OF THE SKIN. 891 In these extreme cases e^'en, something may be done to prolong life and to relieve suffering, even if no cure be ultimately to be expected. Moore proved that, unless the brain be implicated, or some large vessel involved,^ something can usually be done at least to arrest the rapidity of the growth. I he met oc which he adopted Avas a combined use of the knife and of chloride of zinc. By these means he removed in some cases the Avholc of the affected parts, leaving a huge chasm in the face, and even in one case exposing the dura mater for a considerable extent oA'er the roof of the orbit. The operations were done on no regular plan, the incisions being directed solely by the shape of the growth, and no attemi)t being made to repair the deformity left. The results of these opei’ations were, on the Avhole, favourable. Out of six cases three recovered, and the threemthers received decided benefit, but were not j)ermanently cured. In all the cases in Avliich the chloride of zinc came into actual contact Avith the dura mater, ejAileptifoi’m fits occuiTcd, but only of a temporary character. lA'hen the disease is situated in an extremity, and the cancellous end of a bone especially is invoh'ed, as Avhen it dips into and erodes the head of the tibia or the loAA'er end of the radius, amputation would be the proper and only advantageous procedure. hen the disease is so extensive, or so situated, that absolutely nothing in an operative Avay can be done, the Simgeon must content himself by cov’ering up the raAV surface Avith lint soaked in glycerine and water, and protected by . oiled silk. C'axcer of the Skin.—Cancer may occur in the skin as a true scirrhous deposit. Most couuuonly, howeA'er, those affections of the skin termed cancerous consist of the epithelial form of the disease, and are usually seated about the lips, face, and scrotum, or at the orifices of the mucous canals ; these we have already considered generally, and shall have to revert to them more fuUy when treating of the special aftections of these parts. Irue cancer of the skin may occiu-in three forms : 1, as the Ihdm’ated Wart of a scin’hous character, specially described by Scarpa; 2, as Scirrhous Infiltration and Fungus ; or 3, as Ulcers which, primarily originating from local initation of a simple kind, may, by the persistence of this, assume a truly cancerous character ; thus I have seen the scrotum and the neighbour- hood of the apertures of fistulm in perinaeo, in a case of old-standing disease, become converted into a truly sciiThous mass. Cancer of the skin is apt to assume a melanotic character, owing to the large dcAelojAment in it of black pigmentary matter. Closely allied to it in appear- ance, if not in histological structure, is that most malignant disease (see p. 772) Melanotic Sarcoma, Avliich may be developed in connection AV'ith the in- tegumentary structures. I haAn met Avith two instances of late of this disease, one oil the foot, the other on the hand, of ladies both above seventy years or age. I he disease may readily be removed by caustics or the knife. Some time a tei lemoAal in both cases, broAvnish black patches looking like stains AAuth n lan ink a2)pearcd on the skin in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix. These ..,r,ic Uci ly dcA eloped into noAv deposits. In one case hundreds of these formed lip le eg, vaiying in size from a pea to a filbert. They sloAvly ulcerated and (icstroycd life proljably )jy secondary visceral deposits after a period of about our years Irom the primary manifestation of the disease.