59 GENERAL REVIEW OF CAUSES OF DEATH. secondary amputations ; whilst, for the lower extremity, excluding the foot, it was 46 for the primary, against 78 per cent, for the secondaiy. In the American army during the war of the rebellion, the mortahty after primaiw amputation of the thigh was 54-13 per cent.; and after secondary amputation, 74-70. In the French ai-my in the Crimea, on the other hand, the mortality after primary amputation of the thigh and arm—amounting in the foi-mer limb to above 90 per cent.—was greater than that after the secondaiy operation. • As has already been observed, not only does the rate of mortahty differ in primary and secondary amputations, but also the cause of death. Piimaiy amputations are most frequently fatal from shock, hmmon-hag-e, and exhaus- tion, although death from pyrnmia and secondary diseases of a low tyiie is by no means rare in these cases. Secondary amputations for injiuy most commonly cany off the patient by the supervention of septic diseases. Amongst these secondary affections that are of most fi-equent occunence, gangrene of the stump stands in the first place, especially after traumatic ^putation of the thigh, and more particularly if the limb have been in a similar condition before the amputation. Then, again, erysipelas, phlebitis ■\rith pycemia, secondary haemorrhage, and some of the low forms of visceral inflammation or congestion, as pneumonia, plem-isy, and diarrhoea, often produce death. Pyaemia, complicated by congestive and suppurative pneu- monia, is the most fi-equent cause of death after secondary amputation of the leg and arm. Secondaiy haemorrhage to such an extent as to prove fatal is of very rare occiurence ; when it happens, it is usually associated with some diseased state of the blood interfering \rith the formation of a plastic plug in the ai’tery. SnxrMARY.—On revieAviug the whole subject of the cause of death after- amputations, we cannot but come to the conclusion that the mortality after- amputations is influenced more directly and distinctly than that of any other- operation, except perhaps ovariotomy, by the hygienic conditions to which the patient is subjected after the operation. The evil influences arising fi’om exposure to a\dtiated atmosphere—to those various conditions and combinations of conditions that are summed up under the one general term “ Hosjntalism,” —exercise so important a bearing upon the death-rate after amputation, that, in order to ai-rive at a just estimate of the probable chances of recovery after any given amputation, it becomes necessary not only to consider whether the operation be done for injiu-y or disease—whether it be primary or secondary -^whether the disease be simple or malignant—Avhether the patient be aged or yoimg, healthy or diseased ; but, above all, to consider Avhether, after the removal of the hmb, the patient will be exposed to those conditions that result ft-om the aggregation of the sick and Avounded. For it is on them almost more than on any others that the ultimate result will depend. Whatever explanation Ave may gh'e of the fact, it remains certain and incontrovertible that the rate of mortality after amputation of all limbs in the large city hospitals of Great Britain up to a very recent period has been at least 1 in 3 {vide Table). In those of Paris, out of 1,056 amputations, the statistics of Avhich Avere collected by Malgaigne and Trclat (Simpson), 803 died, or nearly 1 in 2 {vale also Table). The GoA'ernment statistics collected