8:, I THE LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCER. CPIAPTER XXXVI. VENEREAL DISEASES. The term Venereal Disease is used to denote those affections which arise primarily from sexnal intercourse. It was, until lately, held to include two distinct specific diseases—Syphilis and Gonorrhoea. The special researches of Siu’geons in this country and on the continent hare, however, in late years, apparently established the fact, that in the term Syi^hilis there have been included two distinct affections, both communicable by contagion during inter- coiu’se, hut differing in their characters, and especially in this, that the one is a piu’ely local affection, Avhile the other not only produces local effects, but, by the introduction of a specific poison into the system, infects the general constitution of the person to AYhom it is communicated. To the pm’ely local disease the term Local Contagious Ulcer or Chancre may be applied ; the Avord Syphilis being restricted to the constitutional affection. Hunter and his folloAvers supposed that aU the specific diseases arising fi'om sexual intercourse originated from one and the same poison. But this doctrine has been proved to be eiToneous ; for not only are the local appearances and constitutional effects of these diseases Avidely different, but Ricord has shoAvn, in the most conclusive manner, that gonorrhoeal matter, when in- oculated on the skin or mucous membrane, never produces a chancre ; and that, on the other hand, chancrous pus can never be made to produce gonon-hoea. Each of the diseases—Local Contagious Chancre, Syphilis, and Gonorrhoea— propagates itself, and no other. Tavo of these diseases may, hoAvever, co-exist in the same person. Thus, Av^e shall have occasion to notice the coincidence, in some cases, of the local chancre AAoth the phenomena of constitutional syphilis. Again, Ricord has pointed out, that a Avoman may at the same time be affected by gonoiThoea and by chancres on the uterus ; and this probably explains those cases in Avhich, after connection with the same AVoman, different men haA'e contracted different foims of disease, or even both affections. In this Chapter, Ave shall describe—1, the Local Contagious Ulcer or Chancre ; 2, Syphilis, or Constitutional Syphilis ; rescrAing the consideration of Gonorrhoea till aa'C speak of Diseases of the Urinary Organs. 1. LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCER OR CHANCRE. The Local Contagious Ulcer or Chancre is a sore of special form and appearance, characteristic of the nature of the disease. It may oecur on the cutaneous, the muco-cutaneous, and mueous surfaces, most commonly on the latter, on aeeount partly of their greater exposure to contagion, but chiefly from their being less perfectly protected by epidermis. Chancres present much variety as to their appearance and to the course AA'hich they pursue : so gveat indeed