OSTEOID SARCOMA. 771 Fig. 207.—Myeloid. Tumour of Radius. from the periosteum, so that the tumour is enclosed in a thin bony shell, which, on pressm-e, yields the peculiar sensation known as “ egg-shell crackling.” On reaching a cartilage-covered surface it pushes the cartilage before it, but rarely if ever perforajtes it. On examination of such a tumour after re- moval, a bony plate will fre- quently be fovmd separating it from the medullary canal. At other times it may extend a long distance, infiltrating the medulla. Myeloid tumours are most common at the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia, and the upper end of the humerus. They also, when growing from the jaw-bones, form one variety of epuhs. I have removed them from the lower end of the radius, and fr'om the metacarpal bones (Figs. 297,298). In the majority of cases they may be safely removed without the prospect of recur- rence, but occasionally, without any apparent reason, they return after removal. The true myeloid rarely, if ever, gives rise to se- condary deposits in the lymphatic glands or internal organs. Myeloid tumoius are said to have been seen in the parotid region and the mamma, but this is doubtful. Ossifying and Osteoid Sarcomata.---These tumours Avere formerly classed amongst the cancers, under the name of osteoid cancer. Almost any form of sarcoma may undergo ossification. Thus round-ceUed, spiudle-ceUed, and myeloid sarcomata may occasionally show abundant formation of bone. The development of bone in these growths seems to give rise to no radical change in their nature. They still show the same tendency to imlimited growth, and sometimes the same liabihty to recur locally or to give rise to secondary deposits in distant parts. The secondary deposits develope bone like the original growth. The bony parts of these tumoius usually present the appear- ances of tiue bone, but somewhat irregular in structure. Occasionally tumours growing from bone are met with, which present the structiue of the gvowing tissue found beneath the periosteum in inflammation or in normal growth ; that is to say, small round or polygonal cells with simple or multiple nuclei, sepa- rated by a small amount of homogeneous or fibrillated intercellular substance. These groivths readily ossify ; they, form beneath the periosteum, and the bone beneath is often thickened, so tLat the medullary canal may be obliterated. They show a considerable tendency to local recurrence after removal. In rare cases, ossifying sarcomata are found unconnected with pre-existing bone. Fig. 298.—Myeloid Tumour of the Metacarpal Roues of the Index and Middle Fingers. Successful Removal of those Bones and Fingers.