222 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. bullet Conico-cyliudi'ical balls, as has been already observed, tear ti.eir w tbrouo-h the strong-est and densest osseous structures. llie direction of the openings is often of importance in a medico-legal as well as in a sm-gical point of view. Thus, Sir Astley Cooper, by attending- to this circimistance m a case of murder, ascertained that the fatal shot nmst have been fired by a left-handed man; and this led to the detec- tion of the criminal. These apertures, though usually opposite to one another Avhen a ball passes right through a part, are not always so, the bullet being deflected by the bones, or by the elasticity of the skin, so that the twe apertures do not correspond. Thus a bullet has been known to strike a ri]> and to be then deflected, running under the skin to the opposite side of the body ; again, sti-iking one temple, a bullet has been earned imder the scalp to the other side of the head, where it has passed out; thus it might appear, that important cavities had been penetrated when in reality they had not been wounded. _ The Apertures of Entry and of Exit, made by a bidlet, deserve atten- tive consideration. Much discussion has arisen as to whether there be any difference between these aper- tiu’es, and, if so, to what it is owing. That there is a diffe- rence in the great majority of cases, there can be no doubt; though this difference is, as a rule, not so decided in the case of the modern rifle-ball as in that of the spherical. Thus, in the latter instance, the hole made by the entrance of the bullet is small, circular in shape, less than the diameter of the ball in breadth, the edges being shghtly inverted and ecchy- mosed (Fig. 8G); whereas, in the former, the aperture of entry is more lacerated crucial, or starred, and lai’ger than case, the hole made by the exit of Fig. S6.—Guii-sliot Wound. Aperture of Entry. Fig. S7.—Guu-sliot Wound. Apertiue of E.rtt. and inegidar in oiithne, often hnear. the diameter of the ball. In either ^ the ball is a large, somewhat everted, and irregular apertme, into which two or three fingers may be freely passed (Fig. 87). In some cases, however, there is no appreciable difference between the two ; and in others, after a time, the aperture of entry is larger than that of exit. There can be no doubt that Guthrie has given the con-ect explanation of these discrepancies, when he states, that the amount of the difference in the tAVO apertures viU depend partly on the momentum of the ball, and partly on the resistance Avith which it meets. If the ball strike shortly after its dis- charge, at the maximum of its A'elocity, it Avill make but a small roimd hole, not shattering the parts so much as separating them. If it traverse a part