671 AMPUTATION IN GANGRENE. when there is febrile disturbance in persons of a full habit of body, it must be discontinued, as it Avill increase the irritation of the system. The pain in the foot, which is often very severe during the progress of the disease, usually ceases of itself when the mortification is complete ; and before this, it is but little influenced by any sedatives, whether coiisLitutionally or locally applied. ■\^’’ith respect to the comparative advantage of the depletory and stinmlating plans of treatment in senile gangrene, I think it may fairly be stated that neither method should be api^lied exclusively ; that in those cases in which there is much febrile action, in which the tongue is loaded, the pulse quick, and the skin hot, in which the spread of the gangrene is preceded by a red angry blush, with much pain and heat, moderate diet and mild tonics will be most useful; whilst, on the other hand, when it is simply a shrivelling of the toes and feet, A^dthout any preceding increased local action, or febrile con- stitutional disturbance, a decided tonic or stimulating plan Avill succeed best. The Local Means to be employed in senile gangrene are simple. It is of great importance to keep up the temperature of the hmb, and to equalise its circulation as much as possible ; this is best done by the apj>hcation of cotton-wadding or of carded avooI in thick layers around the foot and leg, so as to envelope the limb completely in this material, over which a large Avorsted stocking may be drawn, or a silk handkerchief stitched. This dressing need not be removed more than once or tAvice a Aveek, unless there be much discharge from the fine of separation, when it must be changed more frequently ; the gangrened part itself should be coA^ered with a piece of lint soaked in chlori- nated lotion. “When the soft parts have been separated, and the bones of the foot exposed, these should be cut across by cutting-pliers or a small saAV, and the sores that result dressed in the ordinary way Avith some astringent lotion or slightly stimulating ointment. The balsam of Peru, either pime or diluted Avith an equal part of yolk of egg, is a very excellent application in these cases. In the event of recovery, the patient must be careful to avoid exposine to cold, and to keep the legs warmly clad at aU seasons of the year. Aaiputatioj^ IX Gaxgebxe.—The question of Amputation in cases of gan- grene of the limbs is of great importance to the practical Surgeon, and is one on certain points of which the opinions of the best practitioners still vary. At first sight it appears rational to cut off a limb that is dead, disorganised, and offensive ; and Avith propriety this may be done when the gangrene is, strictly speaking, a local condition, as, for instance, the result of a severe injiuy ; any affection of the constitution in such a case being secondary to the local mischief and dependent on the in-itation set up by it, and on the depression of the poA\ ers of life consequent on the efforts made by natm-e to rid the system of a spoiled member. But Avhen the eonstitutional disease is the primary affection and when the gangrene is consecutive to and dependent upon this, it would clearly be useless to cut off the mortified part, as the same morbid action might c pxobably Avould be set up in the stump or elseAvhere. Hence the broad ques ion of amputation m cases of gangrene tuims upon the fact of the mortifica- tion being local or constitutional in its origin. hen the pngrene is local, Ave usually amputate at once: cspeciallv when S' an artery. Here, for the reasons which have been given (jip. 214,