• z z 7°5 ERYSIPELAS OF MUCOUS SURFACES. extended and rigid state. The finger must then be well soaked in hot water, and poulticed. In this way the inflammation may be arrested, and sloughing happily avoided ; should, however, matter have formed, it must be let out as it acciimulates. The dead and sodden cuticle should be cut away with scissors, as it frequently seriously interferes with the escape of the discharges and sloughs. After the opening has been made, and any slough which may have fomed has come away, it not unfrequently happens that a large and fungoid gi-anulating mass sprouts up ; this will, however, gradually subside, as the swelling of the finger goes down and the inflammation abates. It the nail become loosened, it had better be removed, as it may otherwise keep up iiTitation ; it must not, however, be torn off if adherent, but merely scraped and cut away so far as it is loose. When the whole of a finger is aft’ected, the hand should be placed on a pasteboard splint as soon as the inflammation has been somewhat subdued, lest contraction of the affected finger ensue, which may eventually extend to the neighbouring ones. In opening a deep seated palmar abscess, there is danger of wounding the branches of the median nerve, the superficial palmar arch, and the digital arteries. These structures may all be avoided, and the operation done safely, by making the incision towards the head of a metacarpal bone, upon the bone itself and parallel to its axis, so as to avoid the digital interspaces. When the joints are implicated, destruction of the cartilages commonly ensues; yet, by position, and rest on a splint, a tolerably useful though stiffened finger may be retained. When the bones are implicated, some operative pro- cedm’e usually becomes eventually necessary. If the ungual phalanx alone be necrosed, it may be excised through an incision on the palmar side of the finger, the pulp and nail being left; in this way I have often preserved a finger that must otherwise have been removed. Amputation of the finger at the metacaiqio-phalangeal articulation wiU usually be required when the second or proximal phalanges are involved ; though here partial excision, by cutting and scraping away the diseased bone, may sometimes be usefully done. During the later stages of these affections, tonics, good diet, and stimulants will be required for the re-establishment of the health. . INTBBNAL EEYSIPELAS. By Internal Erysipelas we mean those forms of diffuse inflammation which affect the Mucous or Serous Surfaces, or the Lining Membrane of Ai’teries, Veins, and Lymphatics. Erysipelas of Mucous Surfaces.—The mucous tract that is chiefly affected by this disease is that covering the fauces, the pharynx, or the larynx. Erysipelas of the Fauces may occur in consequence of the disease spreading from the head and face to these parts ; or it may commence as a primary affection, occun’ing perhaps at the same time that the rash appears on the cutaneous surface of some distant part of the body. When the fauces are erysipelatous, they present a bright crimson or scarlet colour, with some swelling and thickening of the soft palate and uvula ; the patient also most commonly has some huskiness or complete loss of voice, and occasionally some eroupy symptoms. At the same time there is a good deal of low constitu- VOL. I.