765 6'aj;coj/ata. ^ ■ /TiTcf-a '^riicv arc always uou-iualignaut, and tliere is 110 leasoii to bclic\e tlmUhey ever assume a carcinouiatous character. Their clinical features an treatment will be fully discussed in the chapters on the diseases ot the oi^ai ill which they occur. UNDEBO-OINO- IV.—TUMOURS BRYONIO, OB IS SEEN IN THE DEVELOPMENT SARCOMATA. r-nivr-pn^ED OF TISSUE WHICH IS EITHER PURELY EM- COMPOSED primary modifications OF ADULT CONNECTIVE TISSUE The laro-e «TOup of tumoiu-s now classed together under the name of sarco- mata includes many which were, till comparatively recently, known by a , and grou^ which has now received a definite meaning, was formerly applied to variety of other names, and grouped in other divisions : and the term sar- coma, which has now received a definite meaning, was Ic almost any soft fleshy growth. Thus almost all soft sarcomata of bones, the o-lioma or glio-sarcoma of the eye, sarcomata of secreting glands, and lymphatics, were formerly called soft cancer ; the melanotic sarcoma, melanosis, or melan- otic cancer, and the ossifying sarcoma, osteoid cancer ; many fii’m sarcomata have been described as scirrhus, and soft sarcomata broken down by hmmor- rhao-e as blood-cysts. Lastly, the tumours known as fibro-plastic, fibro-nuclear, recmTcnt fibroid, malignant fibroid, and myeloid, have all been brought into the gTeat class of sarcomata. These tumours may gi'ow in any part of the body. They may present every variety of consistence, colour, and shape , they may be circumscribed or diffuse ; they may be as innocent as a fatty tumoiu’, or as malignant as the worst form of cancer. The anatomical type of sarcoma is found in embryonic tissue, a description of which has been given in a former page (p. 736). Its pathological analogue is seen in the products of inflammation, but between these and sarcoma are many differences. The products of inflammation, supposing they live, show a tendency towards develop- ment into some more perfect tissue ; but in a sarcoma the older parts of the growth show no higher development than the most recent, the same type of structiu'e being as a rule maintained throughout. Inflammatory new growths tend speedily to limit themselves, sarcomata to grow indefinitely. In sarcoma, the individual elements are often larger than those seen in inflammation. The cells of sarcomata vary greatly in shape and size, and it is chiefly according to these variations that this group is subdivided. The cells consist simply of a mass of protoplasm smrounding one or more nuclei, and enclosed in no cell-wall. They may be small and round, exactly res.embling the white corpuscles of the blood, or large and round, looking almost like epithelium- cells ; they may be oval, spindle-shaped or fusiform, stellate or tailed; large mother-cells crammed with nuclei may be found, and occasionally the cells are pigmented. The intercellular substance may be scanty or abundant, homo- geneous or fibrous, but under all circumstances it penetrates between the individual cells in the greater part, if not in the whole of the tmnour, and thus establishes a broad distinction between these growths and carcinomata, in which the stroma forms alveolar spaces, the cells lying free within them. Occasionally the growth may ossify. The blood-v'essels of sarcomata are usually abundant and thin-walled, resembling those of. newly formed granu- lations. This makes these tumours prone to bleed, both into their own sub-