519 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. I 1 I I INJDBIES OF REGIONS. CHAPTER XXIV. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. INJURIES of the Head are among the most important subjects that can engage the Sm-geon’s attention. Their importance is derived not so much from the mere iujmy of the scalp and skull, as from the implication of the brain and its membranes, and the results which are thereby produced, in many cases dh’ectly, and in others indirectly and remotely, owing to the anatomical connections and consequent close pathological sympathies that subsist between the external and internal structimes of the head. In consequence of this tendency to cerebral complication, it is of the fii’st moment in practice to study these injuries as a whole, -with special regard to the affections of the encephalon that are produced by them, and from which the injiuy of the scalp and the fracture of the skuU derive the greater part of their interest. It is there- fore necessary, in the first instance, to be acquainted ivith the natime and treatment of the principal forms of cerebral affection that supervene upon these accidents, before we proceed to study the nature and treatment of the injmies themselves. CEREBRAL COMPLICATIONS OP INJURIES OF THE HEAD. These may be primary or secondary. The brain is subject to thi’ee principal Primary States of Functional Disturbance arising fr’om injury; viz., 1. Concussion, 2. Compression, and 3. Cerebral Irritation. Any one of these may be followed by, or be complicated with, inflammatory actions of various kinds, that derive much qf their peculiar characteristics frum the conditions ■with which they are associated, and fr’om the injuries by which they are occasioned. In describing these different conditions, we are compelled to define the symptoms that characterise them more distinctly than is the case in actual practice, where they are not so closely individualised, and become merged together to a considerable extent. 1. Concussion op the Brain,—Concussion, or stinniing, appears to be a shoek communicated to the head fr-om the application of such external violence as will produce commotion of the substance of the brain, or interfere with the circulation through it; in consequence of which its functions become suspended, usually in a slight and transitory dcgTee, but occasionally to such an extent that the patient does not rally for many hours