656 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. muscles around the anus may be loosened by subcutaneous section oi‘ tlieir <!0ccygcal attacbments. Three quilled sutures (Fig. 2G2) should tlien bo passed deeply tin ough the freshened side ot the laceration, and the edges brought together by a few superfine inter- rupted sutures, or ]jy a continuous suture. The deep sutures are best introduced by long na'jvus-needles. The one nearest the anus should be passed first; and if the recto-vaginal septum be involved in the rent, it must be dipped into but not passed through the freshened surface of tins part, so as to dravp it well forwards and against the new perimeum. The sutures should be introduced at a distance of one inch from the cut •edge, should pass about three-quarters of an inch in depth, and be brought out on the other side at the same distance from the freshened surfaces as that at which they entered. The great difficulty in this operation will be found to ■consist in the enlargement of the aperture in the recto-vaginal septum, and in bringing its edges together. In proportion to the loss of substance that has ocemred, this difficulty will increase. Sometimes a narrow band, the result of «ome previous ineffectual attempt at union, wiU be found to stretch across the gap nt the verge of the anus. This should not be retained, as it will be gveatly in the way of the operator, and useless as far as after-union is concerned. The best material for the deep sutines is strong whip-cord well waxed, or iron vdre. I now generally j)refer the wire as less irritating. For the super- ficial sutui’es, thin annealed silver wire should be applied in the continuous mamier by means of the glover’s stitch ; the parts are thus much more secm-ely ■and easily held together than by the interrupted suture. The siiccess of the operation will, to a great extent, depend on the attention bestoAved on the after-treatment, the mode of conducting which has been laid doAvn with much precision by B. Brown. The principal points to be attended to are as follows. Immediately after the operation, a full dose of opium should be o-iven, followed by a grain once or tAAUce a day, so as to arrest all intestinal action. The patient should be laid on her side, and a catheter, furnished with a long India-rubber tube introduced, retained so as to prevent any di'ibbliiig of mine OAcr the raw edges, which would be fatal to their union. Ihe hae- morrhage usually ceases when the edges are brought together. If it should continue, the application of a pad and T-bandage, and of ice in the vagina, will generally easily control it. The deep sutmes, if of Avhip-cord, should be left m for three days, as a general rule. In some cases they may even be retained for foin- days ; but if any suppmation be set up along their track, they must at once be AvithdraAAOi ; if of wire, fhey may be left longer—for six days. I lie superficial sutures should be left in as long as they produce no irritation ; avhen of silver wire, they may be left undisturbed for eight or ten days. _ Diiriiio^this period, I have found it advantageous to keep the part covered with collodion, men the sutures are removed, a pad of diy lint, supported by a l-bamlage. Fig. 202.—Operation for Lacerated PeriniEum.