SPECIAL FRACTURES. 412 bent upon itself in the middle, so that one-half of it may be applied lengthwise to the chest, and the other half to the inside of the injured arm ; the angle formed by the bend, which should be somewhat obtuse, being Avell pressed up into the axilla. In this Avay the limb is steadied, and the tendency to displacement inwards of the lower fragmeiit is corrected. In some cases, fracture of the neck of the himierus is followed by atrophy of the bone, though good union has taken place. Compound Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus is not of common occuiTence. I have had a case under my care in which the accident happened to a lad from a faU out of a window. The fracture Avas transA’erse, and the upper extremity of the loAA-er fragment Avas driven upAvards, and protruded through the deltoid, to the extent of an inch and a half. It was reduced A\ith difficulty : as great irritation was set up around the seat of injury, and as there was a tendency to recurrent protrusion of the.upper extremity of the loAver fragment, this was timned out by enlarging the wound, and about an inch and a half of it saAAm off. Union took place between the fragments, and recovery was effected Avith a very usefrd ann. Separation of the Great Tubercle of the Humerus occasionally occurs from falls and bloAvs upon the shoulder ; but more commonly as the result of the violent action of the three extenral rotator muscles Avhich are inserted irrto it. Irr this irrjru’y there is a dorrble displacerrrent; the tubercle is canied up- wards aird orrtwards arvay from the head of the bone, arrd under and external to the acromiorr process ; the head is drawrr upwards arrd inwards by the muscles passing from the trunk to the arm, as Avell as by the flexors of the arm, irr such a way that it hes uporr the imrer edge of the glenoid cavity rmder the coracoid process, arrd is indeed almost luxated. The conseqrrence of this double displacernerrt is a great increase in the breadth of the shoidder, which has nearly double its natiual size ; orr examination, a roimded tumoiu—the head of the bone—^moA'able orr rotating the arm, can be felt under the coracoid process, whilst another osseous mass—the great tubercle—^may be felt at the orrter arrd back part of the joint; between these a sulcus is perceptible, and crepitus may be felt by bringing the two portions of bone irrto apposition and rotating the arm. This accident, which is rare, has been most carefully described by Grrthrie and Smith, to whom Ave are indebted for oiu krrowledge of its pathology. The Treatment consists in an attempt to bring the detached tubercle into contact vdth the head, of the bone, arrd retain it there ; this may be done either by mechanical mearrs, or by relaxatiorr of the muscles. The treatment by mecharrical means consists in placing a pad in the axilla, and brirrging the elbow to the side so as to throw out the head of the bone, at the same time that, by means of a compress, the tubercle is pressed irrto proper posrtrorr, the arm beirrg srrpported in a shrrg. The treatment by relaxatiorr of the muscles consists in elevatirrg arrd extending the arm from the tnrnk ; rn carrymg.this out, it is necessary "that the patient be corrfirred to bed, the armberrrg srrpported on a pilloAV. „ ., „ Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Head of the Humerus can only occur as a corrsequence of grrrr-shot injrrry. Irr these cases rere nra} also be splinterirrg of the acromiorr or coracoid processes, of re tree' o o