FliACTURES OF BONES OF FELVIS. 425 Dercha splint put upon the hip of the side affected, so as to keep the joint quiet, and to prevent all displacement of the fragment. If the imcthra have been lacei-ated, it must be borne in mind that, however completely the patienc may recover from the fracture, he Aiill most certainly become the subject even- tually of the most troublesome and intractable form of urethral stricture—the traumatic. Fracture of the Acetabulum is an accident that can only occm- as the result of vciy great \'iolence directly applied to the hip. It may take place in two situations ; cither through the floor of the cavity, or only through the rim, a portion of which is detached. It is probably occasioned in most instances by the head of the thigh-bone being diiven forcibly against the surface of the acetabuhmi. Hence, ivhen the rim is broken, it is usually the posterior part that is detached, and the head of the femur slips out upon the dorsum ilfi. Fractiue through the floor of the acetabuhmi is usually complicated with extensive comminution of the pelvic bones and serious internal injiuy, so as to be followed by death. In the University College Museum is a preparation of a fr-actiu’c of the acetabulum, ivith comminutiou of its floor and of the ilium. Sanson and Sir A. Cooper have seen the bone resolved into its three primitive fr-agments ; and in some cases the comminution has been so great that the head of the femur has been thrust into the pelvic cavity. In such extensive and grave injmies as these, the Surgeon can do little more than support the pehds ivith a padded belt, and place the limb on the long splint. When a portion of the rim of the acetabulum is detached, as the result of direct violence, the head of the femiu will shp out upon the dorsum ilii, or into the sciatic notch, and the signs of iho-sciatic dislocation manifest them- selves. In a case of this kind, which was under my care at the Hospital in a muscular man aged about thirty, the shortening and inversion of the hmb and displacement of the head of the bone into the sciatic notch, were aU weU marked. Traction readily effected reduction, with distinct crepitus ; but, as soon as extension was discontinued, the head of the bone slipped back into the sciatic notch. The diagnosis in this case was made, and in similar instances may readily be effected, by attention to three circumstances :—the dislocation, its ready reduction with crepitus, and its immediate retiun when the limb is left to itself. The Treatment consists in the appheation of the long sphnt with a broad padded belt, so as to seciue steadiness of the head of the bone. But vith every care a return of displacement ^viU readily take place, and an unsatis- factory result can scarcely be avoided ; shortening of the limb, and consequent lameness, being almost inevitable. Fractuees of the Sacrum are excessively rare, except as the result of gun-shot injiuy. When occiming fr-om other causes, such as falls, they are almost invariably associated with fracture of the pelvic bones, and then they have always been fatal. The records of surgery contain but a very few obser- vations, probably not more than six or eight, of uncomplicated fr’acturc of the sacrum arising from other causes than gun-shot. I have had two cases of fractm-e of the sacrum under my care. Both had a rapidly fatal issue. In