574 IlSrJURIES OF THE SPIFfE. only may be afroctecl; or both may be affected, either alike or in imcqual degrees, bensatiou and motion may both be seriously impaired in one limb, or sensa- tion in one and^ motion in another. The paralysis is seldom complete. 11 may become so ni the more advanced stages, after several years ; but for the fii'st year or two it is almost always partial. It is sometimes incompletely recovered from, especially so far as sensation is concerned. The Joss of motor power is especially marked in the legs, and more often in the extensor than in the flexor muscles. The extensor of the great toe is especially apt to suffer. The hand and arm are less frecpiently the seat of loss of motor power than the leg and foot; but the muscles of the ball of the thiunb, or the flexors of the fingers, may be affected. The loss of motor power in the foot and leg is best tested by the application of the galvanic cuirent, so as to compare the irritability of the same muscles of the opposite limbs. The electric test is not under the influence of the patient’s Avill; and a very true estimate can thus be made of the loss of contractility in any given set of muscles. The loss of motor power in the hand is best tested by the force of the patient’s grasp. This may be roughly estimated by telhng him to squeeze the Sm’geon’s fingers, first with one hand and then with the other, or more accurately by means of the dynamometer, which shows on an index the precise amount of pressure exercised in grasping. It is in consequence of the diminution of motor power in the legs that those pecifiiarities of gait which have been above described are met with, and they are most marked when the amoimt of loss is iniequal in the two hmbs. Modification or diminution of sensation in the limbs is one of the most marked phenomena in these cases. In many instances the sensibility is a good deal augmented, especially in the earlier stages. The patient complains of shooting pains down the limbs, like stabs, darts, or electrical shocks. The surface of the skin is sometimes oversensitive in places on the back ; or, in various parts of the limbs, hot, burning sensations are experienced. After a time these sensations give place to various others, which are very differently described by'patients. Tinghng, a feeling of “pins and needles,” a heavy sensation, as if the limb were asleep, creeping sensations down the back and along the nerves, and formication, are all commonly complained of. These sensations are often confined to one nerve in a hmb, as the ifinar or the musculo-spiral. Numbness, more or less complete, may exist independently of, or be associated with, aU these various modifications of sensation. It may be con- fined to a part of a limb, may influence the whole of it, or may extend to several limbs. Its degree and extent are best tested by Brown-Sequard’s testhesiometer. Coldness of one of the extremities, dependent upon loss of nervous power and defective nutrition, is often perceptible to the touch, and may be determined by the thermometer ; but in many cases the sensation of coldness is far greater to the patient than it is to the Surgeon’s hand, and not imfrequently no appre- ciable difference in the temperatiwe of two limbs can be determined by the most delicate chnical thermometer, although the patient experiences a ^•ery distinct and distressing sense of coldness in one limb. The condition of the limbs as to size, and the state of tliecr muscles, vill 'saiy greatly. In some cases of complete paraplegia, which has lasted for j eais, it has been remarked that no diminution whatever has taken place in the size of