SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 490 and keep the bone in position, as it has a constant tendency to slip forwards and outwards. Provided a dislocated elbow can be so far reduced as to allow tlie forearm to be bent at a right angle, an useful arm Avill be left. Dislocations op the Whist are of rare occuiTcnce; so much so, that their existence has been denied by Dnpuytren and other modern Surgeons of gi’eat experience. Although there can be no doubt tliat fractures of the loAver end of the radius, more especially of an impacted character, have often been mistaken lor these displacements, yet there can be now no cpiestion that they do occa- sionally, though rarely, occur. Any doubt that may formerly have existed upon this point, in consecjncnce of the Avant of post mortem examinations, has been in recent years cleared up by the dissections of cases that haA^e been made by Marjolin and Voillermier. The observations of these Surgeons, together AAith those preA'iously made by Sir A. Cooper, tend to show that dislocation of the Hand and Carpus from the radius may take place either hciclcwcivds or forwards. These accidents are occasioned either by falls on the palm, or by the hand being forcibly bent forwards. In falls on the palm, the hand may be thi'OAAOi forwards inider the bones of the forearm, lying on their palmar aspect. In forcible bending of the hand forwards, there may be displacement of it and the carpus backwards on the dorsal aspect of the radius and ulna. In the Dislocation of the Hand and Carpus BackAvards the Dorsal displacement—there Avill be shortening of the length of the hmb below the elbow, with a large dorsal prominence occasioned by the carpus overlapping the lower end of the radius, which bone Avill be felt and seen as a projection on the palmai’ side. In the other variety of radio-carpal dislocation, the Hand and Carpus are throAvn PorAvards under the radius and ulna on their Palmar aspect. This dislocation is il- lustrated in the accompanying figm-c taken fr’om a cast sent to me by Cadge of Norwich (Tig. 218). In it the projection of the styloid process of the uhia and the lower end of the radius form a concave line on the dorsal aspect, overlapping the cai-pus, Avhich lies on the pahnar side of the radius. _ _ The Diagnosis of these injm-ies has to be made fr-om sprains ot the yis , from simple and from impacted fractmes of the radius. From sprains of the ivrist, the great and prominent deformity mill at once enable he Sm'geon to ilistinguish a dislocation. From simple fracture of the lo™' the peculiar defomity, and the absence of crepitus trd affoi-d leady moons diapiosis. It is from the impacted ftactnre o ‘““r X ,h ^ radius that it is most -lifflcult to distinguish a chslocatioii. In the - however, the general laxity of the wrist-joint, the gi'cator the deformity is removed, the peculiar and abrupt “«■,XI obliquity of the hand towards the radial side, will enable the Singeon to distinguish the true nature of the injury. Fig. 21S.- -Dislocation of tlie Hand and Carpn.s foi’wards.