565 CONCUSSION OF SPINAL CORD. CHAPTEK XXV. —♦— INJURIES OF THE SPINE. IxjUEiES of the spine, like those of the head, derive their importance fi'om the degTee to which the inclosed nervous structures are liable to be implicated. The spinal cord is subject to Concussion, Goinp'ession, and Inflammation, as the residt of external violence ; and any of these conditions may occiu’ without injiuy to the osseous and ligamentous structm’es investing it, although, in the majority of cases, they are directly occasioned by fracture or dislocation of the vertebraj. The cord may also be partially or completely divided by cutting instruments, gun-shot wounds, or broken vertebras. CONCUSSION OF THE SPINAL COBD.* It is by no means easy to give a clear and comprehensive definition of the term. Concussion of the Spinal Cord. This phrase is generally adopted by Smgeons to indicate a certain state of the cord occasioned by external violence ; a state that is independent of, and usually, but not necessaiRy, uncompheated with, any obAuous lesion of the vertebral column, such as fr’actme or disloca- tion ; a condition that is supposed to depend upon a shake or jar received by the cord, by which its intimate organic structine is more or less deranged, and by which its functions are greatly distinbed, and in which various symptoms indicative of loss or modification of inervation are immediately or remotely induced. It appears that Surgeons and writers on diseases of the nervous system have included four distinct pathological conditions mider this one term, concussion of the spinal cord; viz., l._ A jar or shake of the cord, disordering, to a greater or less degree, its functions, without any lesion perceptible to the unaided eye ; 2. Compression of the cord from extravasated blood ; 3. Compression of the cord from inflammatory exudations within the spinal canal, whether of serum, lymph, or pus ; and, 4. Chronic alterations of the structine of the cord itself, as the result of impairment of nutrition consequent on the occurrence of one or other of the preceding pathological states, but chiefly of the third. These various conditions differ remarkably from one another in symptoms and effects, and have only this in common, that they arc not dependent uj)on an obvious external injury of the spine itself; in which respect they differ from the laceration or compression of the cord by the fractine with displacement or the dislocation of a vertebra. Symptoms indicative of concussion of the spinal cord have of late years Iiilurierof tlfp rearter to niy work on “ Concussion of the S))ine, Nervous SI SivciVhere! Nervous System,” Lomlon, 1875, for n more coin]ilete exposition of 1 , and other Obscure subject tliau can be