276 ABREST OF ARTERIAL ILEMORRIIAGE. artery are not adherent I have ascertained by finding, on careful dissection, that the transverse sti’ite of the lining membrane of the artery are always visible, although the coats of the vessel are often stained nearly black by the imbibition of the coloiming matter of the lilood. The contracted vessel usually assumes a conical shape ; but in some cases I have seen the contraction com- mence suddenly, the narrowed part being perfectly cylindrical for the distance of about an inch. The changes that have just been described are those Avhich take place in the proximal end of the artery. In the distal or inferior end, occlusion is effected by processes essentially the same, but the retraction and contraction of the vessel are not so complete and extensive, and the coagulum is usually smaller both inside and outside ; in some cases, indeed, the internal coagulum is deficient. The less perfect closure of the distal end may, as Guthrie suggests, be the cause of the more frequent occurrence of haemon-hage from it. The idtimate change that takes place in the divided artery is the transforma- tion of its cirt extremity, up to the first collateral branch, into a dense fibro- cellular cord. This is effected by the plastic effusion inside and outside the artery, with the cut and contracted vessel in the centre, developing into fibro- cellular tissue, which becomes vascularised and incorporated with the adjacent arterial Avails. AeEEST of H.a:MOREHAGE FROM A PUNCTURED OR PARTIALLY DfVIDED Artery is effected in a somewhat different maimer from what has been just now described ; the difference consisting in the changes that go on in the neighboru’hood of the Avoimd. If the Avoimd in the soft parts coA'ering the artery be of small size and obhque in direction, so that the blood does not escape AAith too great facility, it aauII be found that the temporary arrest of the hsemorrhage takes place by an extrav’asation of blood occurring between the artery and its sheath, by AA'hich the vessel is not only compressed, but the rela- tions between the wound and the aperture in the sheath are altered. This stratum of coagulated blood extends for some distance Avithin the sheath, aboA'e and below the wound, opposite to which it is thicker than elsewhere. Coagulum may hkeAidse be formed in the tissues of the part outside the sheath, by which the vessel is still fruther compressed, and the tendency to the escape of blood proportionately lessened. The permanent closure of the pmictiue is effected by adhesive proeesses. Lymph may be effused in such a way as to be sufficient merely to plug the wound in the coats ; or it may obliterate the whole interior of the artery, pro- ducing complete occlusion of it. In order that the wound in the artery should unite simply by the formation of a cicatrix in the coats, Avithout obliterating the cavity of the vessel, it is necessary that it be below a certain size ; but this size will vary according to the direction of the Avound. If this be longitudinal or slightly oblique, it aatU be more likely to unite in this Avay than if transverse. Guthrie states that, in an artery of the size of the temporal, a small longitu- dinal Avound may sometimes heal AAdthout obliteration of the vessel, though this veiy rarely happens in larger arteries. If a large A'cssel, such as the femoi’al, be opened longitudinally to the extent of one-foiuth of its circum- ference, there is no proof that the AVOund can heal Avithout obliteration of the cavity of the arteiy ; but when a longitudinal Avouud in a large artery is veiy