0RIGI2T OF CANCER. 795 a morbid local state in those constitutions in which they find the necessary is\ritrcnnOT°‘ There is a tendency in the tissues of duals to iarour the development of those cancer-growths, /_ in some local in-itation, whether this be trauniahc or functional.^ ^^^to stitntional shite, whether congenital, hereditary, or acquired constitute a fitting soil for the cancerous element, m which to to develop. The stronger the tendency the uaorc readdy wiU cancel gr in such iiidividuals, and the more rapid and vigorous Avill he the giwth This constitutional state does not develop a local cancer ; it simply &vouis i s development by alloAving local irritations of various kinds, which ivould be in- capable of producing it ill perfectly sound constitutions, to give rise to that one primary cancer-cell which forms the starting point of every tumour, and by afibrding it a fitting nidus of development. 4. The (jQogra^ihkal distriluUon of cancer has already been considerecl a p. 789. The peculiarities in this respect imdoiibtedly cut both ways—m favour of its local as well as of its constitutional origin. For it may lamly be argued that the influences resulting from soil, climate, &c., may develop a local parasitic growth, or* that they may give rise to constitutional states capable of developing a cancer. On revieu-ing the whole of this intricate question, I think wo may iairly conclude that—1, cancer is primarily n disease of local origin ; 2, it is often occasioned by the direct action of local causes ; 3, it is predisposed to by A'arioiis local conditions, physiological as well as anatomical; 4, like all other local diseases, it is under the influence of age, sex, habit of body, and here- ditary constitution ; 5, and although once originating locally its dcA elopment is favomed by constitutional conditions ; 6, there is no evidence of the existence of any constitutional state that can primarily, ]ocr se, and inde- pendently of any local cause, functional or organic, develop a cancer. There are two points in connection vdth the structure of cancer that deseiwe careful study, in reference to the question of local origin. The first is the abundant blood-supply that a cancerous tumom invariably demands and obtains ; the second is its want of a limiting capsule. The first of these points has an important bearing on its growth, the second on its diflFusion. 1. The much larger Mood-supplij that is furnished to a cancerous growth than is sent to any other kind of tumour is well knoAvn to all practical Surgeons. A scirrhus of the mannna, not larger than a pigeon’s egg, will receive a far larger vascular supply than an adenoma as large as a cocoa-nut, the number of arteries requiring ligatm’e after operation in one case being greatly in excess •of those that spout in the other. This abimdant vascular supply is noticeable in the remoA’al of the smallest cancers, but increases with the size of the tumour. The tumour itself is not usually vascular, though some cancers, as the encephaloid, are so abundantly so as to present little else than a congeries of vessels, and to possess active pulsation and bruit; but the vascularisa- tion is in the neighbouring and suiTOunding parts, in the midst of Avhich LLX OLlXJ.ULLJ.lV.4.11X^ JJCIX ilX UliU IXILVAOU it lies. It is always arterial in the deeper parts, the correspondin ig A’cnous