FRACTURE OF THE SPIRE. 5^9 The Treatment of these injuries is tlie same as that of concussion of the spinal cord (see page oS;]). Fractl’iie of the Spine may occur either by the application of direct violence, or by a ^-iolent twst or bend of the body forwards. Direct A'iolence, as a blow, foil, or gmi-shot injury, may of course fracture the spine at any part and almost to any extent, in some cases merely detaching a spinous process, in others splintering and comminuting several vertebrm and lacerating or dividing the spinal cord. Fractm-e of the spine from a violent but forcible bend of the body forwards chiefly ocem-s in the cervical region. It is usually produced by a person falling from a height on the head, the body being bent forcibly forward so as to drive the chin against the sternum. This accident often liappens in falls from horsebaek, or in taking a “ header ” into shallow water. In some cases it has occurred from a person sitting on the top of a vehicle having the head forcibly bent down Avhilst passing under an archway. In these accidents there are usually extensive ruptime of the spinal ligaments and dis- placement of the bones, as well as fracture. The extent of the fracture and the amount of displacement necessarily vary gTeatly. The spinous process merely may be broken off ; or the arch may be broken through on each side of the spine : or the fr’actime may extend through the body of the vertebra. In some cases of even very extensive fracture there may be no appreciable displacement: but usually some change of position ensues, in many cases to such an extent as to compress or lacerate the spinal cord. The mode of occurrence of the fractiue wiU influence the amount of displacement. If the fracture be thi’ough the arch, or consist in a simple detachment of the spinous process by a fall or a blow on the back, there may be little or no displacement. If it occur from gun-shot injury, or from a fall upon the head, or by forcible flexure of the neck and body forwards, as when the body is comjDressed between the top of a van and an archway, then there will probably be great displacement, and perhaps separation of the articulating sm’faces of contiguous vertebrie. The Signs of this injury vary very greatly, and depend in a great degi-ee upon the extent of the displacement. If this be inconsiderable, it may be extremely difficult, and even impossible in some instances, to pronounce Avith certainty whether the spine has been broken or not; the more so, if the iractiue do not implicate the body of the vertebra. If, on the other hand, the displacement affect the axis of the column or compress the cord, the symptoms arc so marked as to admit of easy diagnosis. The symptoms are of two kinds ; those presented by the injury of the bone, and those dependent on injury by compression or laceration, or both, of the spinal cord. The Local Signs are usually ^lain at the seat of injury, greatly increased on pressure or on mo\ing the part; inequality of the line of the spinous pro- cesses, with depression of the upper portion of the spine, and corresponding prominence of the lower. There is an inability to support the body in the erect position, and to move the spine in any way ; hence, when the upper portion of the column is injured, the jiatient holds his head in a stilf and coMtrained attitude, fearing to turn it to either side. he General Symptoms of fracture of the spine are dependent upon the