570 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. cases IS mflammatoiy action, wliich may be of an acute or chronic kind ; and we hiiYG seen that it may advance in a A’cry insidious manner even after in- juries tliat Avcve of so slight a kind that they attracted at the time little or no attention. isothmgcan be clearer and more positive than this statement, ihese remarks of Abercrombie are confirmed by Ollivier, by Bell, and by other vTitcrs on such injuries. CoJTCussroN FROM INDIRECT VIOLENCE.—There is a class of cases of an extremely insidious and protracted character, in ivhich the patient has received no blow or injury upon the head or spine, but the whole system has had a severe shake or shock, in consequence of which disease is developed in the spinal cord, perhaps eventually extending to the membranes of the brain. These cases are more frequent in railway than in other injuries ; but they occasionally occur in consequence of ordinary accidents. One of the most remarkable circumstances connected ivith injuries of the spinal cord is, the disproportion between the accident and the mischief iiroduced thereby. Not only do most serious, progressive, and persistent symptoms of concussion of the spinal cord often develop themselves after apparently shght injiuies, but frequently when there is no sign whatever of external lesion. The shake or jar inflicted on the spine when a person jumping from the height of a few feet comes to the ground suddenly and heavily on his heels or in a sitting posture, has been ivell knoivn to Surgeons as a not imcommon cause of spinal weakness and debihty. It is the same in railway accidents ; the shock to which the patient is subjected being often followed by a train of slowly pro- gressii’e symptoms, indicatii'e of concussion and subsequent irritation and inflammation of the cord and its membranes. It is worthy of remark, that the symptoms of spinal concussion seldom occur when a serious injury has been inflicted on one of the limbs, unless the spine itself have at the same time been directly and severely struck. A person who by any ordinary accident has one of his hmbs fractm’ed or dislocated, necessarily sustains a veiy severe shock ; but it is extremely rare to find that the spinal cord or the brain has been injuriously influenced. It would appear as if the Auolence of the shock expends itself in the production of the fracture or the dislocation, and that a jar of the more dehcate nervous structiu'es is thus avoided. A familiar illustration of this is afforded in the injury sustained by a watch by faUing on the ground. A watchmaker once told me that, if the glass be broken, the works are rarely damaged ; if the glass escape unbroken, the jar of the fall will usually be fomid to have stojiped the movement. How these jars, shakes, shocks, or concussions of the spinal cord directly influence its action, I caimot say with certainty. When a magnet is struck a heavy blow with a hammer, the magnetic force is jaived, shaken, or concussed out of the iron. So, if the spine be severely jarred, shaken, or concussed by a blmv or shock of any kind communicated to the body, we find that the nervous force is to a certain extent shaken out of the man, and that he has in some ivay lost nervous power. What immediate change, if any, has taken place in the nervous structure to occasion that effect, ive no more knoiv than ivhat change happens to a magnet when struck. Secondary Effects.—'Wliatever may be the nature of the primary change that is produced in the spinal cord by a concussion, the secontlari/ effects arc