914 DISEASES OF LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. lymphatitis, and the absence of the cord-like plugged vein. From erysipelas, the absence of the diffuseness of the red hlush, and its limitation to the course of the inflamed absorbents, Avill readily serve as diagnostic signs. But into erysipelas the lymphatitis may ultimately run. From the pysemic it is neces- sary to diagnose the acute lymphatic abscess. This is usually easy; the lymphatic abscess being, if deep, solitary; if superfleial and multiple, confined to the tract of the previously inflamed absorbents : in either case being always between the starting point of the primary source of irritation or wound and the glands ; in the calf, thigh, or iliac fossa, if the primary imtation be* in the lower extremity, in the axilla or side if in the upper. The symptoms also indicative of prostration, of hectic, &c., are totally imhke those of true pyremia. Eesults.—The disease usually terminates in resolution at the end of eight or ten days ; not uncommonly it runs on to erysipelas ; and in other cases, again, locahsed suppuration may take place, sometimes in the form of one large deep-seated abscess in the upper part of the Hmb or in the thigh if the lower extremity, or under the pectorals and in the axilla if the upper extremity be the seat of irritation ; or a chain of abscesses may form along the course of the inflamed absorbents and in the glands to which they lead. In some instances, after the disappearance of the disease, a state of chronic and rather solid oedema of the part may be left, giving rise indeed to a species of false hypertrophy, and constituting a troublesome consequence ; more rarely, death results from more or less general blood-poisoning. This may assume the form of a local development of cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas, or may lead to genuine pysemia. If abscess form, irritative fever, with much wasting, ansemia and pallor may set in ; and death may ultimately ensue as the consequence of hectic and exhaustion. Causes.—The cause of inflammation of the absorbents is septic irritation introduced from without or generated by morbid constitutional states ; the disease is especially disposed to by atmospheric vicissitudes, by particular seasons of the year, more especially the early spring, and by the epidemic constitution at the time tending to disease of a low type. Broken health and the neglect of hygienic precautions also tend to induce it. Amongst the more direct causes are wounds of all kinds, but especially such as are poisoned by the in- troduction of putrid animal matters or other irritants, or that are of recent origin. It is very rarely indeed that inflammation of the absorbents ocem’s without some such external cause ; yet we are certainly warranted in consider- ing it as of idiopathic origin in some instances. I have at least seen cases in which careful examination has failed in detecting any breach of surface or evidence of poisonous absorption. Treatment.—In superficial lymphatic inflammation of the skin and in- tegumental structures, the local appheation of belladonna, as recommended by C.°Heath, is the most efficient agent in subduing the local action ; a paste of equal parts of the extract and of glycerine should be thickly smeared over all the inflamed parts, and followed by assiduous poppy fomentations ; the hmb at the same time being kept elevated. The bowels should be freely op^ned. It chronic indmation and oedema occm’, the appheation of bhsters will be found to be of use in taking down the swelhng and hardness ; bandaging, so as to compress the hmb methodicahy, may be of service in the later stages.