SPECIAL dislocations. 478 a case of dislocation dovmwards of the head of the humerus, vdth a severe 3. In t]io dislocation Backwards, or the Subspinous (Fig. 200), the head of tl.c luonems l.cs beUmd H,o glo„„id cavity, and below tl.e J no of papula, between the mfl-aepinatne and teves minor museles. Key found the tendon ot the snbscapniaris torn across, together with the internal portion of stotehed! Of tlio'bone is dislocated below the spine of the scapula, it r In ^ f olore especially when the arm is rotated. The axis ot the hmb is altered, being directed backwards nearly horizontally ; the elbow IS raised from the side, to which it cannot be approximated, and is carried for- wards and somewhat downwards. 4. Ill the dislocation Downwards, or the Subglenoid (Fig. 210), the head of the bone lies in the axiUa, resting against the inferior costa of the scapula be ow the glenoid cavity, and lodged between the siibscapnlar muscle and the long portion of the triceps. In it the tendon of the snbscapiilar muscle is commonly torn near its insertion into the lesser tubercle of the hu- merus, and the capsular ligament is largely lacerated. The siipraspinatus muscle may also be torn through, or a portion of the great tubercle of the humerus detached, and the rest of the capsular muscles put greatly on the stretch. The axillaiy artery and plexus of nerves are compressed and stretched by the dislocated head of the bone, so that a severe numb pain is commonly experienced in the hand and arm. The compression of the artery is so great, that the circulation through the limb may be completely aiTested. This I saw remarkably illustrated in lacerated wound of the forearm, dividing the radial and ulnar arteries. So long as the dislocation remained imreduced, no hmmoiThage took place ; but when the head of the bone was replaced, the injm-ed arteries bled fr-eely. The head of the bone can usually be readily felt in the axilla, at its anterior and mider part ; the arm is lengthened to the extent of about an inch, the forearm is usually somewhat bent, and the fingers are often numbed, in con- sequence of the piressin’e of the head of the bone on the axillary plexus. The elbow is separated from the trunk and canied somewhat backwards, but can be approximated to the side. If the head of the bone caimot be felt in the axilla, its presence there may be ascertained, as Cooper directs, by raising the elbow, when it at once becomes perceptible. In a case which occiUTed to Cleland of Galway, the am was thrown up so as to reach above the patient’s head. This patient was lame and used crutches ; and Cleland supposes that one of tlie crutches, having slipped, acted as a ful- crum in such a way as to cause the weight of the body in falling to o^■cr- come the tendency of the latissimus dorsi and pcctoralis major muscles to draAV the arm towards the side. Reduction was readily effected. The dislocation of the humerus to which the term Partial is usually Fig. 212.—Suligleiioid Dislocation.