68i SLOiraillNG FHAGEBJENxL may arise in cases in wliich there is no wound ; and 3. The most careful auciseptic precautions, although powerful in the prevention of septicmmia and jjjcTinia, are far less so in erysipelas. Certain cases are also met with in whicli ah the symptoms of pymmia arise ivithout the existence of any external wound or sore. ” For instance, the pus from beneath the periosteum in acute necrosis has been found to contain bacteria at the time when the abscess was opened and before it could have had any direct communication ivith the air, and the poivei- fully infective properties of the inflammatory products of this disease are only too well known from the frequency with which it terminates in acute pymmia. In these cases it must be concluded either that the A'iriis rendering the inflam- matory products infective was spontaneously generated witliin the body, or that, having in some way obtained admission from without, it underwent furthei development and increase at the inflamed spot. Such cases as the above are, however, veiy rare, and shoidd in no way lead us to doubt that the vast majority of all septic and infective processes in open wounds arise from causes attacking the woiuid directly, and are the result of faulty sanitary arragements or of imperfect wound hygiene. ' Of the nature of the poisons causing these various diseases we know little. The obseiwations of Biuxlon Sanderson tend to show that they are “ incapable of diffusion (in liquids), and, therefore, in the strict sense insoluble,” and that they are invariably associated with the presence of microscopic organisms ; but evidence is stiU wanting to show certainly whether these organisms produce the virus, serve merely as carriers of it, or only coexist ivith it. Each view has its supporters. Experiments by Baxter, undertaken on behalf of the Privy Council, show that the most virulently infective products have their activity destroyed by disinfectants, such as carbolic acid, chlorine, sulphiu- dioxide, and potassic permanganate. There is reason to believe that the poison or poisons giving rise to pymmia and septicaemia are identical, the variety of the disease depending on circumstances to be discussed hereafter. The virus of erysipelas is probably specific and entirely distinct frnm that causing the two former affections. The same may be said of hospital gangrene. Thus, although the different septic diseases are developed by much the same methods, there is every reason to beheve that they do not aiise from the generation of the same septic influence ; but that each septic disease is ; the result of the impregiiatiou of the wound, or the contamination of the I system by a different poison, such poison being capable only of producing I its own special or specific disease. That this is so appears j)robable from the fact that septic diseases are not interchangeable ; that one does not run into the other; that one tyjDe will prevail at one period, another one at another time. Each is a distinct and specific affection, and though arising generally under the influence of the same favouring circumstances, each is the outcome of a special septic poison. AVe will now consider them more in detail. SLOUGHING PHAGEDENA. "^is affection, which is also known by the names of Hospital, Contagious, or ulpy Gangrene, is characterised by a rapidly destructive and spreading-