564 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. it is, he withdraAvs it iu the crown of the trephine, or raises it out Ijy means of the elevator. In this operation the dura mater must not be Avounded ; if it be injured, fatal consequences Avill probably ensue. The ol)jects for Avhich the trephining has been had recourse to must iioaa^ be carried out, depre.ssed bone being ele\’ated or removed, and pus or blood evacuated. The scalp should then be laid doAvn again, a feAV sutures and a piece of Avater-dressing being- applied. There are certain parts of the skull—over the A'enous sinuses, for instance, and near the base—to which no j)rudent Siu-geon Avould apply the instrument. So, also, if it were ever thought necessary to trephine at the frontal sinuses, the outer table must first be removed with a large croAA-n, and the inner table sawn ont AA-ith a smaller one. After the operation, careful attention must be paid to antiphlogistic measm-es of a preventive and cm-ative kind, the gi-eat du-ect danger to be apprehended being inflammation of the brain and its membranes. In some cases, also, there is reason to believe that suppmative phlebitis of the sinuses and veins of the diploe has been the cause of death. The operation of trephining is by no means a favoiu-able one in its results. Of 45 cases reported by Lente, as occiu’ring at the New York Hospital (in which, however, there is no distinction made between the application of the trephine proper and of various instruments, such as the elevator, Hey’s saw, &c., belonging to a trephining case), only 11, or about one-fourth, recovered. Of 17 cases in which the trephine proper was used at University College Hospital, by Cooper, Liston, and myself, 6 patients recovered : 1 other died of injury of the spine unconnected Avith the operation, and the remaining 10 died from various causes. In the late American war, the results have been more satisfactory than the previous experience of Army Surgeons woidd haA'e led us to hope. Of 107 cases of trephinuig, 47 recovered ; and of 114 cases where fragments of bone were removed by the forceps and elevator, Avithout the use of the trephine, 53 recovered. The Parisian Siu-geons have not been very successful. Nelaton says that all the cases of injury of the head, 16 in number, in which the trephine had beeir used in the Parisian hospitals during fifteen years, tenninated fatally. But, although cases in which the trephine is used thus commonly tei-minate fatally, it Avould not be right to atti-ibute the unfavom-able result to the operation itself. In the majority of cases, death results rather fi-om the injiu-y sustained by the brain, from the pressure of extravasated blood at the base, or fi-om encephahtis induced by the cerebral lesion. And, as the cases to which modem Sm-geons now restrict the use of the trephine would necessarily prove fatal if left to themselves, it is but right to give the patient the slender chance of one to three of escaping with life.