877 Fig. 320.—Two Central Syphilitic Incisors Deeply Notched (Hutchinson). Fig. 321.—One Central Incisor Notched (Hutchinson). treatment of syphilis in infants SYpbilitic taint ; and in these, as in the temporary, the disease declares itself chiefly in the incisors of the upper jaw, and first in the central ones, ihese will be observed to be usually of a bad colom-, short, pegg}', rounded at the angles, standing apart with interspaces, or converging, and marked by a deep broad notch; They arc soft and crumbling, ai’c slender, and readily wear down (Figs. 820, 321). Besides the notching, the sides of the teeth are curved inwards towards one another, and thus the cutting edge becomes narrower than the crown. The teeth are also shorter than the others. The convergence of the sides causes the teeth to be somewhat separated, and to stand apart. Under the name of Chronic Interstitial Keratitis, J. Hutchinson has described a disease which he believes to be uniformly due to hereditary syphilis. It occui’s between the ages of 5 and 18, but may occim much earlier, even dm-ing the first year. It consists at first of a hazy condition of the cornea, giving it the appearance of gi’ound glass, followed by vascularisation without any tendency to ulceration. The opacity commences in the centre, and both eyes are usually affected. The vascularity is not confined to the surface, but seems to pervade the whole thickness of the cornea. One eye is usually affected before the other. Under a carefully conducted com’se of mercmials and iodides, accompanied by tonics and good diet, the transparency of the cornea can usually be restored. Treatment.—The occurrence of syphilis in the infant may be p-eventecl by putting the infected mother on a mercimial com'se so soon as her pregnancy is ascei-tained ; this indeed may be necessary in order to prevent miscarriage, but should be done cautiously, and by inunction rather than by mercury admin- istered by the mouth. Should repeated miscarriages have occurred, as the consecpience of constitutional syphilis, one or other, or both the parents, if at fault, should be put upon a mercmial course ; and thus the reciu-rence of this accident may be prevented. The Curative Treatment as regards the child is extremely simple. It should be brought up by hand, lest it infect the niu’se or continue to receive fresh accession of poison from the diseased milk of its mother. It must then be pnt under the influence of mercury, which in these cases acts almost as a specific; and, indeed, the ready manner in which all disease may be eradicated from the system of a syphilitic child by this mineral, is perhaps one of the strongest proofs that can be adduced of the specific character of its action on the venereal poison. The mercury may be given by the mouth in the form of small doses of hydrargyrum cum creta ; but, as it often purges the child when administered in this way, Brodie has recommended its introduction into the system by inunction, which process I invariably employ, and have found it a most successful mode of treating the disease. The most convenient plan is, as recommended by Sir Benjamin, to spread a drachm of mercurial ointment on the under part of a flannel roller stitched round the thigh just above the