484 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. In the gi-oat majority of these cases—in at least ten ont of the twelve—the diffused traumatic aneurism appeared immediately after the employment of forcible and long-continued extension. In tlic rcmaiiiiug two instances, the aneurismal tumour did not appear until after the lapse of some time. In Dupuy- tren’s case a woman, sixty years of age, had a dislocation into the axilla of six weeks’ standing reduced. Two or throe months after this, a tumour appeared in the armpit. This was mistaken for an abscess, and opened ; arterial hasmor- rhage ensued, and the patient died on the eighth day, from secondary bleeding. In Nekton’s case the patient, also an old woman, had a subglenoid dislocation which was easily reduced. But an anemdsm appeared in the axilla, which, three months after the reduction, compelled that distinguished Surgeon to tie the subclavian. Both these aneurisms were probably circumscribed. Dupuytren’s case was not the only one in which the fatal mistake was com- mitted of opening the aneiu’ism in the axilla—the same was done by Pehetan, ■who mistook the tumom’ for an emphysema; the result being of necessity fatal. In cases reported by Yerduc, Petit, Platner, and Leudet, the aneiu’ism was allowed to run its course unchecked by ef&cient singical treatment, and in every instance proved fatal by the sac giving way, and secondary haemorrhage cnsuuig. Sir C. Bell records a case that occinred at the Newcastle Infii-maiy, in which the pectoral muscles as well as the artery were torn, and immediate amputation became necessary. In foin- cases the subclavian artery had been ligatiu’ed. All these happened in America ; two to G-ibson, one to Blackman of Cincinnati, and one to Warren. Three of them proved fatal by secondary htemorrhage, Warren’s being the only one in which recovery took place. What Treatment should be adopted in this distressing accident ? If the aneurism be left to itself, or be treated by inefficient means, it must necessarily prove fatal by its rupture or sloughing and secondary haamonhage. The ligatine of the snbcla-kan is not very promising, as a fatal result occinred in three out of the four cases in wliich it had been tried for diffuse aneinism. Nekton’s case having been circumscribed. In these circumstances, it appears to me that it would be -wiser to apply to these cases the usual principle of treat- ment that is adopted in cases of diffused axilkiy aneurism from other causes ; \iz., to compress the subclavian, lay open the sac, turn out coagida, and tie the torn artery at the seat of injury. In one case, the dislocation being of twenty days’ standing, and the patient a female 2G years old, Froriep states that reduction was followed by sudden and extensive tinnefaction of the axilla, syncope, and death in an hour and a half A 2^ost mortem examination disclosed laceration of the axilla) ij vein, ho mention is made of any internal injiny to account for death. Injmy to the axillary nerves dining reduction leading to paralysis of the arm has also been described. A case of this kind is mentioned by Bilhoth as having occinred in a patient under his care at Zurich. The dislocation iras of nine months’ standing, and had been attended with partia paralysis of the arm and sotne muscular atrophy. The reduction was foUowedby total paralysis, which Bilhoth attributes to laceration of the axillary nerves m consequence of their having become adherent to the bone. • n 4? n ,i Besides these accidents, other ekl consequences have occasionally followed prolonged attempts at reducing old dislocations of the bnmerns, such as siuldcr