WARTS, EXCRESCEXCES, AND VEGETATIONS. 863 been for this, we should content ourselves with the iodide of potassium ill infusion of cpiassia, or, what is better, in full quantities of the compound decoction of sarsaparilla. Should inerciuy not have been given for the primary sore, recourse must now be had to it. In the squamous syidiilide, mercury, I think, is always necessary ; and here I give the preference to the iodide o\’er the other preparations. In the qnistukt)- forms, syphilitic rupia and ecthyma, the constitution being commonly shattered, a tonic plan of treatment is required in the first instance ; after Avhich the perchloride of meremy in tincture of bark or decoction of sarsaparilla should be steadily administered. In these cases also much benefit Anil be derived from the mercurial fume- bath. In the tulercular syphilide much the same treatment is required as in the last variety ; in these cases, however, I have often found Donovan’s solu- tion of the greatest possible value, the disease rapidly disappearing under its use ; the same plan is required in the management of syphilitic l)oils. In the treatment of secondary syphilitic idcers, Ave shall find it necessary to use caustic freely, with the vicAV of setting up a new and more healthy action in the part. For this pm-pose nitric acid, or the acid nitrate of mercuiy, is especially serviceable ; on the separation of the slough thus produced, the sore may be dressed AAuth red precipitate powder or ointment, or the black Avash, to which, if there be irritation, opium may be added—the same consti- tutional treatment, especially Donovan’s, solution, being employed. Iodoform and paste of iodide of starch are valuable applications in the dirty-looking sloughing ulcers of syphilis. After a fcAV applications, the ulcers become clean and healthy, and speedily heal. In syphilitic alojjecia, the internal administra- tion of perchloride of mercury with bark or iron, and the external use of a strong stimulant, such as the nitrate of merciuy ointment or tincture of can- thai’ides, will be found most serviceable ; and in syphilitic onychia, the fr’ee application of nitrate of silver, followed by the black wash, and lAerchloride of mercury or Donovan’s solution internally, is the proper treatment. 2. Warts, Excrescences, and Vegetations are commonly met with in constitutional syphilis, especially in the neighboiuhood of the mucous canals, being usually situated in the neighbourhood of the anus, periuesum, or scrotiun ; and in the female, upon and Avithin the labia. They are also very frequently met Avith about the tongue, on the tonsils, palate, and Iqjs. "When occurang m the neighbomhood of the org-ans of generation, they are usually large, flat, soft, slightly elevated, and uniform in structure and appearance, moistened AA'ith a good deal of mucous exudation, and a sort of perspirable secretion of the neighbouring skin. When seated in the mouth or throat they are usually small, and not so distinctly elevated or circumscribed, but look rather like a thickened and opaque condition of the mucous membrane in these situations. These secondary Avarts, or Tuherchs as they are often termed, differ essentially from the primary vegetations, not onlv m their appearance and general uniform character, but in being dependent on e constitutional nature of the disease, and not on local causes solely, such as the iiTitation of discharges and the want of cleanliness. They are also cer tamly contagious ; and I have knoAni many instances in which they have been istinctly transmitted in this way ; and, indeed, it is by and tliTOii<.-h them at secondary syphilis is transmitted from one individual to anotheiCArithout