92 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. is avoided. The tendency to'protrusion of the bone is also much less, as the weight of the flap is hardly suflicient to cause ulceration, if the end of the tibia has been carefully rounded. Results. Amputation of the log is, upon the whole, a successful opera- tion. ^ The niortahty, however, varies not only according to the situation at which the limb is removed, but also according as it is done for injury or disease, and the nature of that disease. So far as situation is concerned, it may be stated, as a general rule, that the nearer the knee the greater is the danger. In amputation of the leg for injiuy, the rate of mortality is, upon the whole, lather high. In the Crimea, 37 per cent, of the cases were lost. The table at p. 50 shows an average mortahty in civil practice of 4GT per cent.; the death-rate, however, varies greatly in the records of different hospitals. Thus, at the Edinburgh and Glasgow Infirmaries, and Guy’s Hospital, in an of 224 cases, there were 116 deaths ; while in 353 cases in country hospitals, the number of deaths was 99, and in 60 cases at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, there were 20 deaths. At University College Hospital, the mortality has been 31‘8 per cent. Secondary amputation is more fatal than primary ; the deaths from the former, aecording to the table at p. 57, being 48, and from the latter, 43*9 per cent. After amputation of the leg for disease, the mortality is much smaller ; amounting, on a calculation based on 1281 cases, to 23'5 per cent. The chief causes of death are pyasmia, gangrene of the stump, and exhaustion. Amputation through the Knee-joint, originally recommended in the last centm’y by Hoin, and reintroduced by Velpeau, Markoe, and Brinton, has for some years found favoim in this coimtry and in America. Amputation through the knee-joint may be performed in three different ways : 1, with a long posterior and a short anterior flap ; 2, with a long ante- rior and a short posterior flap ; 3, by lateral flaps. 1. The operation vdth the Long Pos- terior and Short Anterior Flap may be readily performed in the following- way. An incision is made directly across the knee-joint, just below the patella. The skin-flap thus formed is dissected back ; and, the joint being opened above the patella, and the ligaments divided by a few touches of tlie knife, a long posterior flap is cut from the upper j)art of the calf of the leg, by passing the knife behind the tibia, and carry- ing it dovmwards for a suitable distauce (Fig. 59A). 2. The operation by means of a Long Anterior and Short Posterior Flap is thus performed. A long square flap, rounded at the cornel’s, is made by entering the point of a short broad-bladed amputating-knife towards the pos- terior part of one condyle, carrying the incision downwards in a straight line Fig. 59a.—Amputation tlii’ougli the Coiidylos by Long Posterior Flap.