544 INJUlUEti OF THE HEAD. Hcwctt, wifcli its relation to the ha3moiThagc Avhich may occur. He divides cases of Avatery discliargc from the ear after injuries of the head into three classes. In the first class, the discharge is Avatery from the first, and abundant, being preceded by httle or no blood, and beginning immediately after the accident. This is undoubtedly cerebro-spinal fluid, Avhich escapes through a fracture of the petrous bone impheating the internal auditory canal. In the second class, there is copious and prolonged bleeding from the ear, foUowed by the AA^atery discharge. Here, too, there is fr’actime of the petrous bone : but its exact situation is uncertain. In these cases, the diagnosis Avill rest upon the prolonged haemorrhage, rather than on the Avatery discharge. In the third class, there is but little bleeding after the injury, and the Avatery discharge, Avhich is variable in quantity, varies also in the time of its appearance. In these cases the diagnosis must remain doubtful. He mentions tAvo cases Avhich occurred at St. George’s Hospital in Avhich a copious Avatery discharge floAved from the ear. In neither of these after death AV'as any fr'acture of the petrous portion of the temporal bone foimd. In one the membrana tympani was ruptured, and the caAuty of the tympanum was “ intensely vascular ; in the other, “ the discharge Avas coimected Avith a fracture of the lower jaw just beloAv the condyle : the loAver fr-aganent had perforated the wall of the meatus auditorius.” The facial nerve may be so injured by a fr-actime of the petrous portion of the temporal bone as to become paralysed at the time of the accident. But more frequently paralysis of this nerve does not come on until a later period, about the second or third Aveek after the injmy, and disappears after lasting about a month. This transient facial paralysis accompanying some forms of fractiu-e of the base of the skiiU has been studied by Marshall, Avho mgemoiisly explains it as being occasioned by the pressime of plastic effusions, which gradually become absorbed as the fr’acture unites, and thus the compression of the nerve is removed after a time. Treatment.—The treatment of fractiu’e of the base_ of the skiiU must be conducted on those general principles that guide us iii the management o simnlefr’actiires of the cranium, such as ice to the shaved head, a calomel purge, low diet, and absolute quietude in a darkened rooni. Ii\most cases the bra is so injiu-ed in its most vital parts that speedy death is the result. Mhen recovery takes place, it is necessarily slow and protracted, hable to retardation from meningitis of an acute or subacute and chronic character. Depressed Fracture of the Skull.—It occasionally though very rare y happens that, in consequence of a blow, a portion of the sknfr is depressed Avithout being fractured, and even Avithoiit any serious cerebra symptoms occiirriuo’ Such depression Avithoiit fractime can, however, oidy occiii in Sen" whose skiiUs are soft and yielding. In adults it cannot happen ’ I of mvtial or incomplete fracture. Many, if not all, n.t If oHhor of violence inflicted on the cranium at biith, usuall} in the result either of head i,. early infancy. mstnmentaUabouis 0 0 fato sometimes symmetrical, and pi-csent regular eutline of an ordinary ftacture.