CIRCUMSTANCES AFFECTING REPAIR. 177 position of blood or other forcii^n body, or from access of air to the wound, have failed to heal by adhesive inflammation. f). Union by Secondary Adhesion.—It not nnfrequently happens that, although gTanulations spring up over the sides of a wound, union between the opposed siudaccs does not take place. We endeavour to accomplish this by bringing the granulating sides together and retaining them in that position, when they will cohere; this constitutes imion by‘‘/S'econffer//In some amputations, and in many plastic operations, cases of hare-lip, cleft- palate, &c., miion is occasionally brought about in this manner. On considering the Aa'c methods of union in wounds just described, it is at once evident that the Siu-geon’s best endeavours should be directed towards procuring healing by one of the fli’st three in preference to the last two, wherever iwacticable. The patient is not only spared the drain of a more or less jjrolonged suppm-ation, Adth its attendant Avaste of neAv tissue-elements, elaborated at the expense of his A’ital powers, but he is also saved from the subsequent dangers to life that must always be associated AAuth an open Avound. It has been remai-ked above, and is to be insisted on A'ery strongly, that access of air to the denuded tissues, or the presence of a foreign body between the lips of the wound, is equally fatal to direct union, to union by scabbing, and to union by adhesive inflammation. Circumstances aiFecting the Healing Process.—When any animal fluid, such as blood, sermn, pus, &c., is exposed to ordinary atmospheric an, a putre- factn e action is set up, with the production of various organic acids of acrid natme, quite cap»able, if alloAved to remain in contact AAuth a raAv sinface, of being as iiTitating as any extraneous body. This property was formerly con- sideied to be due to the action of atmospheric oxygen; but, according to Pastern, it arises from the presence in the atmosphere of minute organic particles, the genus of A'arious monads, bacteria, &c., the development of Ai ich in appiopiiate menstrua is attended Avith a catalytic or fennentatiA'e change in the chemical constitution of the fluid, rendering it not only locally irntatmg but constitutionally infective. Of the presence in the air of such floating organic matters in large quantities the observations of Tyndall and ai -es eave no doubt. Of their active agency in the production of decom- po^tion in putrescible fluids. Lister’s experiments furnish conclusiAn evidence. e c le point in the^ management of wounds being to obtain union AAuth ^ e minimum of suppuration, modem Singeons haA'e endeavoured to prcA’cnt or aimihilate the decomposifrou of the fluids of the part in one of two ways- ei ler y 0 a y excluding air from the Avound, or, by the use of chemical agents winch can act on the organic matters suspended in the air, to purify it and depriA e it of some of its catalytic poAver. The first indication is fblloAA-cd out m the plan of treating Avounds by hermetic scaling, by careful and accu- bbodT^fom"!: styiitic colloid, or lint soaked in the asDirator emptying al>sccsses by means of as carbolic aiid antiseptics and disinfectants, such as carbolic and sulphurous acids, the chlorides of zinc and iron comnonnd aCiuLl&c!^ spirituous and ethereal solutions, liydrated’chloride of Thca-e m-e other circumstances, apart from the local conditions with Avhich N