FRACTURES NEAR THE ELBOW-JOINT. 4^3 scapula or glenoid ca^’ity, and possibly injmy to the axillary vessels and plexus of nerves. . The Treatment must depend upon the extent of the complications, it cue iiijuiy be chiefly eonfined to the head of the humerus, vnth little damage to the soft parts, and none to the main vessels or nerves, excision should be practised, any splinters in connection vith the scapular processes being removed at the same time. Should, however, the soft parts be extensively disorganised, and espeeially the gi'eat vessels and nerves torn, amputation is the sole resoiu’ce. 2. Fractures of the Shaft of the Humerus are usually somewhat obhque from above, downwards and outwards. They may occiu- from any kind of external idolenee, but are more frequently the result ot musculai action than those of any other long bone. The nature of the accident can be at once de- tected by the gi-eat mobility of the fragments, the ready production of crepitus, and the other ordinary signs of fr-actiu-e. The direction of the displacement depends upon the seat of the fr-actine. If the bone be broken above the insertion of the deltoid, and below those of the pectorahs major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles, the lower fragment will he to the outer side of the upper, and will be di-avm upwards while the lower end of the upper fragment will be dravTi inwards. If the fractm’e be below the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment viU be abducted by that muscle, and the lower wiU be to its iiuier side. The Treatment is of the simplest character ; flexing the elbow and applying two or three weU-padded splints, the inner one of which should be rectangular, being all that is neeessary. In these cases the elbow must be well supported, contrary to what is done in fr-actures of the surgical neck. For if, in fractui'es of the shaft, the elbow and whole of the forearm be not well supported in a sling or trough, their weight may di’ag down the lower fr-agment, cause elonga- tion of the limb, and thus lead to separation between and disunion of the fr’ag- ments. In many eases an angular outer splint carried from the acromion to the hand is the best apparatus that can be employed. In applying a sj)lint to the inner side of the arm, eare must be taken that it do not press upon the axillary vein, lest oedema of the limb occur. 3. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Elbow-joint may occur through any of the osseous prominences in this situation. They are very commonly complicated with dislocation, vdth severe contusion and injmy of the joint, or perhaps with comminution of the bones, and considerable laceration of the soft parts covering them. In most cases swelling speedily comes on, tending to obscure materially the nature of the injury. They may be classified as—Sepa- ration of the Lower Epiphysis of the Humerus ; Transverse Fracture of the Lower End of the Bone ; Fractme of either Condyle ; and to these may be added Fracture of the Olecranon. Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Humerus before its ossifi- cation with the shaft is complete, is a frequent accident in children ; the frag- ment being can’icd backwards, with the bones of the fore-arm connected with it, so as to cause considerable displacement posteriorly. In this accident the trochlea, the capitellum, and the condyles, are broken off from the shaft, which remains in situ. It is the detached articular end of tlie bone that is carried