FOREIGN BODIES IN THE (ESOFHiWUS. 621 been suffocateel by breatliing noxious gases, or in cases of hanging, tracheotomy or laryiagotomy should at once be performed, and the lungs inflated through the opening thus made in the neck. INJUBIES OP THE PHABYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. AVouAms OF THE OESOPHAGUS are chiefly met with in cases of cut-throat, in which, as has been already stated in treating of this injury, they occasion much difficulty by interfering with deglutition. Foreign Bodies not uncommonly become impacted in the pharynx and oesophagus, and may produce great inconyenience by their size or shape. If large, as a piece of money, or a lump of meat, the substance may become fixed in the lower part of the phaiynx or the commencement of the oesophagus, which is narrowed by the projection of the larynx backwards, and, compressing or occluding the orifice of the glottis, may sufibcate the patient at once. If the foreign body go beyond this point, it usually becomes arrested near the tennination of the oesophagus. lYhen it is small or pointed, as a fish-bone, pin, or bristle, it may become entangled in the folds of mucous membrane that stretch from the root of the tongue to the epiglottis, or that lie along the sides of the pharynx. In some cases it may eyen perforate these, penetrating the substance of the laiynx, and thus producing intense local irritation, cough, dyspnena, and suffocation. The foreign body, by transfixing the coats of the oesophagus, may seriously injure some neighbouring parts of importance. Thus, in a curious case admitted into the IJniyersity College Hospital, a juggler, in attempting to swallow a blunted sword, by pushing it down his tliroat, perforated the oesophagus and wounded the pericardium; death consequently resulted in the com’se of a few days. The Sjrmptoms occasioned by the'impaction of a foreign body in the food- passages are sufficiently eyident. The sensations of the patient, who usually complains of imeasiness about the top of the sternum, difficulty in swallowing solids, and perhaps an lugent sense of suffocation, lead to the detection of the accident. Should any doubt exist, the Surgeon may, by introducing his finger, explore nearly the whole of the phaiynx, and should examine the oesophagus by the cautious introduction of a weU-oiled probang. If the impaction be allowed to continue um’elieyed, not only may deglutition and respiration be seriously interfered with, but ulceration of the oesophagus will take place, and abscess fonu either behind it or between it and the trachea; or fatal hiemon’hage may ensue by perforation or ulceration of neighbourino- blood-yessels. ° ^ The Treatment must depend upon the natiue of the foreign body and its situation. Should it be large, blocking up the pharynx so as to render resjiira- tioii impracticable, it may be hooked out by the Surgeon’s fingers. Should asphyxia ha’^u been induced, it may be necessary to perform tracheotomy at once, and to keep up artificial respiration until the foreign body can be ex- tracted. If it be smaU or pointed, as a fish-bone or pin for instance, thouoh it aye lodged high up, the Surgeon will usually exqierience great difficulty in 18 icmoyal, as it becomes entangled between and is coyered in by the folds of e mucous memljranc, where from its small size it may escape detection. In