TREATMEXT OF EFIXAL GONCUSSTOX. 583 will muloubteclly be found to be depcndeiit on those secondary structural changes that follow inflammatory action. I have never known a j^atient to recover entirely, so as to be in the same state of health that he enjoyed before the accident, in whom the symptoms dependent on chronic inflammation of the cord and its membranes, and on their consecutive structural lesions, had existed for twelve months. And though, as Ollivier has observed, such a patient may li\-e for fifteen or twenty years in a broken state of health, the 2)robability is that he will die within three or four. There is no structure of the body in which an organic lesion is recovered from with so much difficulty and with so gveat a tendency to resulting impairment of function, as the spinal cord and brain. And, with the exception probably of the eye, there is no part of the body in which a slight permanent change of structure jwodnees such serious distinbance of function as in the S2>inal cord. Treatment.—The general princij)les of treatment of concussion of the S2>inal cord are the same, from whatever cause the injury may have arisen. In the Early Stages of a case of Concussion of the Spine, the first thing to be done is undoubtedly to give the injured jjart com^olete and abso- lute rest. The importance of rest cannot be over-estimated. Without it, no other treatment is of the slightest avail; and it would be as irrational to attempt to treat an injimed brain or a sj)rained ankle without rest, as to try to benefit a patient suffering from a severe concussion or wrench of the sjoine un- less he be kept quiet. It is the more imjDortant to insist nj)on absolute and entire rest, for the reason, that not unfrequently j)atieuts feel for a time bene- fited by movement; and hence changes of air and scene are thought to be permanently beneficial. But nothing can be more erroneous than this idea, for the patient wll invariably be found to fall back into a worse state than had pre'S'iously existed. In more advanced stages of the disease, when chronic meningitis has set in, the patient suffers so severely fr-om any, even the very slightest movement of the body, that he instinctively preserves that rest which is needed. In order to secure rest efficiently, the patient should be made to lie on a jiroiie couch. In the prone j)osition, the sj)iue is the highest jjart of the body ; thus passive venous congestion and determination of blood, which are favoimed when the patient lies on his back, are entfrely prevented. Again, the absence ■ot pressure upon the back is a great comfort when it is unduly seusitfr'e and tender, and is a soiu'ce of additional safety to the j)atient, if he be jjarajAegic, by levelling the liability to the formation of bed-sores. Lastly, the prone 2)osition presents this ad's'antage over the suj)ine, that it allows the ready ajo^ffi- cation of local treatment to the sj)ine. In some instances complete and absolute rest may be secured to the injined spine by the application of a gutta-percha case to the bsick, embracing the shoulders, nape, and back of the head ; or by lotting the patient wear a stiff collar, so as to gi'S'c supjDort to the neck. But, if rest is needed to the sjn'ne, it is equally so to the brain. In cases of concussion of the spine, the membranes of the brain become liable to the exten- sion ot inflammatory action to them. The irritability of the senses of siofrt and hearing, that is very marked in many of those cases, with perliaps heat^of lead or flushings of the face, gives the best evidence of this morbid action. For t le subdual of this state of increased cerebral excitement and irritability, it is