J 2 2 INF LA MM A TION. Jiitlammatioiis of serous and arcolai- tissues, giving rise to dropsies and oedema, ihey most frequently contain a small admixture of filn-ine, approaching somewhat to the characters of the last-mentioned effusion. The quantity of the librine contained in them is usually a measiu'e of the degi’ee of the inflammation. Those serous accumulations form and are absorbed Avith gi-eat rapidity, and their absorption is usually most rapid when the fibrillation is feast. Closely connected with the occurrence of these effusions are changes in the consistence of the part affected : these, however, being in part the results of the local disturbance of nutrition, which is one of the factors of the inflamma- tory process. These changes may be of two kinds : Induration, chiefly as a consequence of chi’onic inflammation, occasioned by the tingescent state of the v'essels of the part, or the effusion of plastic matter within it; and Softening, chiefly the result of acute inflammation, depending partly on the infiltration of effiised liquids into the textm’es, and partly on a disintegration of the substance, which produce a diminution of the consistence even of the hai’dest tissues, by impairment of their nutrition ; thus an inflamed hone may be cut and pared down with a knife, or the hgaments of an inflamed joint become so soft as to admit of spontaneous dislocation. This softening may ultimately lead to the mtersUtial alsorption of a part, which becomes shrunken and contracted after inflammation. Ulceration, as wll hereafter be fully stated, •is not an unfrequent consequence of this softening and atrophy, as we see in ■those joints that hare undergone inflammation. Interstitial absorption and gradual wasting of a part, without prerious softening, often occm as an effect of inflammation. Thus, a blow on the hip may occasion absorption and shortening of the neck of the femin. Loss of transparency in structmes that are normally translucent is a common effect of inflammation, as may every day be observed in the cornea. In some cases this rather depends upon a modification of nutrition than upon the deposit of new matter upon the part; in other cases, again, it proceeds fi'om the deposition of fibrinous matter. Secretions of Tissues and Organs undergo changes in quantity and quality, under the influence of inflammation. The quantity is at fii’st increased ; but during the active stage of the inflammation, when there is much tension, it l)ecomes diminished, the part being almost dry; as the inflammatory action subsides, and relaxation of the vessels ensues, it again becomes increased. The alteration in quality in secretions from glands is chiefly due to the admixtin-e of morbid secretions from the mucous membrane. AVhen a serous memhrcine is inflamed, the secretion not only accumulates in gi'catly increased quantity, as in acute hydi’ocele, but it becomes tiu’bid from the admixtme of flakes of lymph, which arc sometimes so abundant as to give it a pimiform appearance. In other cases true pus is formed, as in inflammation of the coniea and iris, terminating in hyiDopyon. In nrflammation of the aicolai tissue the quantity of fluid is either simply increased, or it becomes fibrinous, occasioning solid oedema and induration. In inflammation of the membrane the nrost importairt modifications of secretion occur. I he fust effect is to cause the transudation of a serous fluid fi’om the mucous mem- brane, the secretion becoming clear-, watery, and abirndarrt. As the iiiflamma-