SPEC I A L FRA C THREE. 400 drilling’ the bone on each side of the fractnre, and fixing the fragments by means ot sifr er n ire. He finds that the ordinary cross-twist does not hold ; ho therefore coils the wire at each side (Fig. 152, 154). In order to facilitate this opera- tion, he has devised a set of in- struments, comprising a tubular needle to retimn the wire, and a key for coiling it (Fig. 153). In Fractures of the Body of the Lower Jaw hy Gun-shot Injury, there is great comminution and splin- tering of the bone, followed by copious and fetid discharge, which, being in part swallowed, may redirce the patient to a state of extreme debility, or induce symptoms of a typhoid character, which may prove fatal. In these cases, Dupuytren recommends the lower lip to be cut through, the splinters taken away, and, if necessary, a portion of the bone resected, so as to convert the wound into one similar to what results after the partial removal of the lower jaw for disease of the bone. Fracture of the Hyoid Bone is of very rare occurrence ; and, though usually the result of direct violence, as a forcible gxasp, has been seen by Ollivier D’Angers to occur from muscular action. The signs are always veiy obvious. The fragments form a sharp salient angle : there is much pain and irritation, increased by speaking and deglutition. There is usually salivation ; and considerable difficulty in breathing may be present. Reduction is accom- plished by pressing the fragments into apposition, either externally or by passing the finger into the mouth. Should one piece of the bone be driven much in, it might possibly require to be chraum forwards with a tenaculum. The head should then be fixed with a stiff pasteboard collar to prevent displacement. fractures of the bones of the chest. Fracture of the Ribs and Costal Cartilages. These injiuies may occur in two ways : 1st, fr’om direct violence, the part that is struck being driven in towards the thoracic cavity, and thus broken; 2nd, thefractme occurs fr’om indirect violence, the fore part of the chest being forcibly compressed, so that the rib is bent outwards, and snaps. When the injiny is the result of direct violence, and the broken fr-agments are forced in, the plcma, lung, liver, or diaphi’agm, may be wounded, thus giving rise to the most serious and fatal’cousequences, such as haemon’hage, emphysema, and inflammation of the parts injured When it is occasioned by indirect violence, as the fr-actiue takes place in a direction outwards, the thoracic organs may be contused and thus injured, but they are not liable to be punetiued by the fr-agments. In some rare cases, the ribs have been known to bo broken by the violent contraction of the abdominal muscles during parturient efforts. Fig. 151.—Thomas’.s second mode Fig. 155.—Form of of uniting Fi'acture of the Lou'er the Coil of Wire. Jaw hy Twisted and Coiled Wire.