895 TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA. bablc that, in many of the cases of neuralgia in the branches of the fifth nerve, pain may be owing to periosteal inflammation, or to some other disease of the osseous canals through which the di^’isions of the nerve pass. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of neuralgia, though usually elfected without any difficulty, is in some cases a little embarrassing, as the pain may occasionally simulate that of organic disease or inflammation of the part. From organic disease of the part that is the seat of suffering, such as the hip, the knee, the testis, or the breast, this disease may usually be distinguished by the co-exist- once of cutaneous sensibility, the existence of the hysterical temperament, and the absence of the other signs that would accompany lesion of structure in the ])art affected. From inflammation the diagnosis is usually sufficiently easy, by attending to the intermittent character of the neuralgic pain, to its occiuTcnce in hysterical temperaments, and to the absence of the constitutional symptoms of inflammation. But occasionally, when local inflammatory irritation is con- joined ivith the neuralgia, the diagnosis is difficult. Here the presence of cutaneous sensibility and the relief of the pain by fii’m pressure will indicate neuralgia ; whereas, in inflammation, there is no tenderness of surface, but the suffering is aggravated by deep pressure. Treatment.—The treatment of neimalgia must have reference to the eause of the disease, and will be successful or not according as this may be more or less readily removed. So long as the conditions that primarily occasion the disease subsist, the pain is likely to continue : and if these conditions be irre- movable, the disease may be looked upon as necessailly incurable, though the suffering may be alleviated by appropriate means. When it arises from any central nervous affection, there may be fear of the ultimate occm-reuce of disease of a more serious type, such as epilepsy, insanity, &c. "WTien it occiu’s as the consequence of amemia, or in the hysterical tempera- ment, the administration of the more stimulating and stronger preparations of iron, such as the sulphate or the perchloride, or the mistm’a fenl composita, either alone or in combination with quinine, with attention to the state of the bowels and of the uterine functions, and a general tonic regimen calculated to brace and improve the general health, such as sea-bathing, the cold douche, or sponging, will be of essential service. In some of these cases the combinations of zinc, especially the valerianate, with the fetid gums, will remove the disease when iron does not influence it much. At the same time, the application of belladonna or aconite plasters, or the inunction of these liniments may be of service. When the neimalgia is distinctly periodical, quinine in full doses, or the liquor arsenicalis, will usually effect a speedy cm-e. "Wlien it is rheumatic, occuiTing in debilitated subjects, and attended by distinct noctiUTial exacerba- tions of pain, no remedy exercises so great an impression upon it as the iodide of potassium, especially when administered in combination with quinine. In the more severe and protracted forms of the disease, relief may be occa- sionally obtained by attention to the state of the liver and digestive organs, by a course of some of the more purgative mineral waters, and by the occasional administration of aloetics or croton-oil, followed by tonic remedies. Local applications of a sedative kind, such as chioroform, belladonna, aconite opium, &c., ai’e often useful adjuncts to constitutional treatment. By far the readiest mode of affording relief locally is the hypodermic injection. Xot more