947 TREATMENT OF HjEMOPIIILIA. Tncleecl, great evil lias often resulted from the inflammation excited by the applieation of styptics of any kind. The parts become swollen, fall into slough, and as they separate the area of the raw and oozing surface extends, and the same process has to be gone through over again. The actual Cautery presents tlie same inconveniences as ordinary styptics. Tt may arrest temporarily the bleeding, but inflammation is sot up in the parts beyond the limit of the eschar, and this on separating leaves an extended ulcerating surfoce which bleeds again, and perhaps more freely than before. The continued application of Cold appears to arrest luemophilic bleeding more eftectually than any other means, and this circumstance would lead to the belief that the hremorrhage is due to want of contractility in the smaller arteries rather than to want of coagulability in the blood. The cold may be applied by means of irrigation of iced water, as has been done successfully by jMar-shall, or by the ajrplication of ice either directly to the part or laid upon a sponge covering it, as has been done by Beck in some of the hmmophilic cases occrrrring at Uni^-ersity College Hospital. Simple water may be used, or a weak antiseptic solution of boracic acid. If the bleedirrg wourrd be irr the extremities, the limb should be kept absolutely at rest on a splmt. The Surgeon has already been cautioned as to the inexpediency of per- forming any operation, except under circumstances of the most urgerrt neces- sity, on any member of a family of bleeders, or on an individual known to be the subject of htemophilia. Should an operative procedure become rrecessary, it shorrld, if possible, be rrudertakerr with the galvanic knife, if it be desired to make a simple incision ; by the galvanic ecraseur, if it be expedient to remove a part or to perform a small amputation. In the event of the galvanic ecraseur not being at hand, the clctsUc ligature would be the best substitute. 3 T 2