11 CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER OFERATIOX. Py®raia, Scpticiemia, and the various Low, DifRrsc, and Erysipelatous luflom- Illations. These causes of death are so various, and comprise so many distinct diseases, that I shall do Uttlo more here than mention them; referring the reader to the ditferent chapters in the body of the Avork, m Aidiich each is specially treated. „ The Shoch of an Operation may prove fatal in various ways : tvom cue severity of the mutilation, as in a case of double amputation ; fi-om the nervous centres lieing- implicated, as in the removal from the face of large timiom-s that have connections ivith the base of the skull ; from fear, oi’ the state of nervous depression, into which the patient has previously fallen, causing him to feel the influence of an operation disproportionately to its severity. These various effects of shock have, howeA'er, been much lessened since amesthetics have been generally administered in oixirative simgery. Aiuesthesia, however, does not remove the physical impression produced on the system by a seA'ere mutilation; hence the influence of a serious and prolonged operation is still manifested in the production of shock, of collapse, and of sloAV recovery, even though the patient hav'e suffered no actual pain. Certain operations appear to exercise a peculiar depressing effect on the nervous system, even though no pain be experienced. Thus, in castration, at the moment of the dfrision of the spermatic cord, the pulse A\ill sink markedly, even though the patient have been fully auEesthetised. So much is this the case, that it is well at that moment to suspend the administration of the anEesthetic. Exhaustion, mthout any tangible local or constitutional disease, is an occa- sional cause of death after severe operations ; more particularly in delicate females, in feeble or debilitated subjects, in those Avho have lost much blood, or who have become Aveakened by protracted suppuration. Hcemorrhage, if very copious, may destroy the patient by inducing sjmeope that may be immediately fatal; or by increasing the influence of the shock so that he camiot rally ; or it may be folloAved by serious after-consequences, such as the supervention of hEemorrhagic or irritative fever, and a disposition to the occiuTence of low and erysipelatous inflammations. During the performance of an operation, hEBinorrhage should, as much as possible, be prevented ; the operation itself is a cause of depression, and any great loss of blood not only seriously aggvaA'ates this, but disposes to the after-occuiTence of pyiAsmia and loAV inflammations. It is in these secondary and indirect effects that the great danger of excessive hEemorrhage lies. Blood is a very complex fluid ; if once bst it is not easily replaced, more especially in advanced years. At any period of life, its excessive loss may permanently impair the constitutional l)OAvei-s. Patients Avho have lost much blood make sloAV recoveries, often inter- luptcd by intercuiTent diseases ; and not unfrequently die at the end of tAVO or three Aveeks, from some asthenic visceral complication. In fact, it is in this *Avay, rather than from its immediately dangerous consequences, that the loss of a large quantity of blood at an operation proA'OS injurious to the patient. When luEmoiThagc occurs a fcAV hours, or a dfiy or tAVO, after an operation, it usually proceeds from imperfect ligature of the Aussels, or froin arteries bleeding aftei' the setting-in of reaction, Avhich had not fuiuishcd blood Avhilst the patient Avas under the influence of the shock of operation. On recoA'cry from ana3sthesia also, it not unfrequently happens that arteries begin to spout, AA'hich yielded