72 HFECIAL AMPUTA TIDES. artery lias been cut in more than one jilace. Tins may cause some trouble in securing it. Great care should therefore be taken to avoid the accident, by keeping the edge of the knife constantly turned towards the part to be re- moved. If the median and ulnar nerves are seen to be cut somewhat long, they should be pulled out udth forceps, and cut short, so as to avoid if possible their implication in the cicatrix near the end of the bone. Amputation of the Arm is most readily performed by lateral flaps made by transfixion from before backwards ; the bone is then well cleared by a couple of sweeps of the knife, and saum across. In clearing the bone, care must be taken fairly to divide the musculo-spiral nerve by a firm sweep of the knife round the back of the bone (Fig. 32), if the amputation be performed in that part of the arm where this nerve winds round the humerus. If the limb be very muscular, skin-flaps and circular section of the muscles will probably gi^-c the best residt. Amputation at the Shoulder-joint may be required for injury of the arm or for disease of the humerus ; in the first case it is best performed by transfixion; in the other, by cidtimj from loitlmd inwards. Hiemon-hage during the operation may be prevented effectually by compressing the sub- clavian artery as it passes ov’er the first rib; though, if the assistant be steady and well acquainted with his duties, this even may be dispensed with. The precautions above described for iireventing loss of blood dming the operation, are quite sufficient in most cases. But if the Siu-geoii have no assistants on whom he can rely, Esmarch’s India-rubber compressor may be applied. After bandaging the limb uith an elastic bandage, a large pad should be put in the hollow above the clavicle so as to press on the subclavian artery. The compressor is then jiassed under the axilla and crossed once over the shoulder, and its two ends pulled on strongly by two assistants. It is difiicult to keep it in place after disai’ticulation, but this is possible if it be put on sufficiently high up, so as to embrace the scapula. In operating by transfixion, a long narrow-bladed knife should be used. One assistant must have charge of the limb ; another should raise the flap ; and a third must follow the knife as it cuts behind the humerus, and gxasp the inner flap with the axillary artery, so as to prevent hmmonhage frnm this vessel. An assistant holding the arm away from the body, so as to relax the deltoid somewhat, the knife, instead of being entered by a punctiue, should make a small cross-cut, about an inch in extent, at the point at which trans- fixion is to be made, so as to prevent that jaggmg of the integuments by the heel of the instrument which would otherwise occur. If the operation be on the rifjht side, the Sm-geon stands before the patient, and the point of the knife should be entered about au inch in front of the acromion, or midway between the acromion and the coracoid process (Fig. 33) ; and being canled directly across the joint and capsule, should pass out at the posterior border of the axilla. If on the hft side, the Surgeon stands behind, and the iioint of the knife must be entered well behind the spine of the scapula, at the postei’ior Ijorder of the axilla, carried across the anterior aspect of the joint, and brought out to the outer side of the coracoid process. In either case, tlie^ large flap containing the deltoid muscle must then be cut by a sweep oi the knife