MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 66o ?>. Cbstruction of the Circulation tliroxigh or Retardation in the return of Venous Blood from a part may cause gangrene. Under this head are to he classed those forms o!‘ gangrene ■which arise Ifom inflammation, and those in -which the return of blood through the principal veins is interlhred ■\vith by thrombosis, or by pressure on the venous tract. 4. Specific Poisons of various kinds occasion special diseases of which gangrene is the principal characteristic. Thus, hospital gangrene, malignant pustule, glanders, cancrum oris, carbuncle, and ergotism, are instances of specific affections accompanied by gangrenous action. Amongst the causes, some are Constitutional, others Local, in their action. Those forms of gangrene are said to be constitutional which arise from intense or specific inflammation of the part; from obstruction of the circulation in consequence of disease of the heart and vessels ; or from the action of various specific poisons. On the other hand, those varieties of gangrene are local which arise from injuries of all kinds, whether applied to the part itself, or to the main artery leading to it, by its ligature or woimd, or from the plugging of the vessels which commimicate ■with ulcers or other’ circumscribed inflammation. These forms of gangrene which arise from traumatic causes, have been already described in previous chapters (see pp. 208,254,263, 310) ; while those that arise from obstructed circulation to or through a part, or that take the form of specific disease, are left for consideration here. Gangrene from Arrest oe the Supply op Arterial Blood.—Whenever a part of the body is deprived of its proper supply of blood, mortification may ensue. Most commonly, when the principal trunk of an artery is obstructed, the collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the vitality of the part; but, should this be interfered -with, gangTene occiu’S from the simple deprivation of blood. Indeed, the sudden loss of a large quantity of blood from the system generally may occasion the death of some of the extreme parts of the body, in which the circulation is natiu’ally most languid. Thus Sir B. Brodie relates the case of a drunken man, who, being bled to an inordinate extent, was seized with gangrene of both feet. The want of a due supply of arterial blood to the limb may be occasioned by two primary sets of causes :—a, from injury or ojoeredion, as wound or ligature of the main trimk; I, from disease, as hj thrombosis or by embolism; by calcificcdion, and suhsequent occlusion of the vessel. ^ Gangrene from arterial obstruction varies materially in its symptoms, prognosis, and treatment, accord- ino- as it arises fr’om one or other of these causes. Nhen the obstruction is seated in the arteries alone, the gangvene wiU be of the dry kind ; but when there is also an impediment to the return of blood through the veins, the disease will partake more or less of the character of the moist variety. a. A hmb gangrenous in consequence of the Ligature or Wound of its Main Artery, without any other injury to the vascular system, becomes cold, feels heavy, and loses its sensibility; at the same time it assmnes a dull ta 0A7- i,Mte colOTir, mottted with greyish or brownish streaks. This state of tbm^ is chiefly met with in the lower extremity ; the integimieiits of the loot die, becoming semi-transparent and horny-looking where they are streWied over the tendons of the instep, and the part presents a shrivelled appeainnee. It » short time the pallid colour is lost, the part becoming brown or blackish, ibis