=94 ARREST OF ARTERIAL H.EMORRIIAGE. :md oil, in whiob, after growing soft and oioaqne during the first fcAV days, it gradually experiences an opposite change, and at length becomes again quite transpai’ent, and is then little affected by water, and holds better when tied than waxed silk. The emulsion is best made by mixing one part of crystallised carbolic acid, deliquesced by means of water, with five parts of olive-oil. The Aery fine emulsion that results is placed in a covered jar, having a partition of glass or other material supported by pebbles at a short distance above the bottom, to afford space for the water that slowly subsides to accumulate in and keep it fi-om coming into contact with the hanks of gut which are placed loosely in the upper part of the vessel. The process of preparation goes on best in a cool place, and should be continued for two months at least ; and the gut goes on improving for an unlimited time if retained in the same oil.” Other modifications of the method of applying the Ligature have been devised by Siu’geons, in order to prevent the dangerous and troublesome consequences arising from the suppimation occasioned by it. Some, instead of briiiging the ends out of the womid, after haAung tied the various ai’teries in the usual way, cut off one end of each ligature, and then di’aw the remaining one out thi-ough a separate punctm’e in the skin. Other Sm’geons, again, have contented them- selves with simply passing the ligature roimd the artery, raising the vessel in the loop of the thread, Avhich is not tied, and bringing both ends out through a puncture made in the skin, where they are firmly fixed, so that the vessel is compressed by the loop, not tied in it. The ligatime is then withdraAvn, at the expiration of two or three days. These methods appear to me to have little to recommend them. The fu’st complicates rather than simplifies the operation ; and, at each ligatimed point, a tendency to ulceration might easily be established. The second method has the disadvantage of being unsafe. If the loop be drawn up tightly, it will cut through the vessel as if it had been tied. If it be left slack, there will certainly be a tendency to secondary hEemorrhage. Effects of Ligature.—The immediate effects on an artery of the applica- tion of a silk or thread ligature with a proper degree of force, are the division of the internal and middle coats of the A'essel, and the constriction of its outer one. If we examine the hgatmed vessel a few days after it has been tied, we find that the coats are contracted ; that there is an internal pyramidal coagulum, composed of plastic matter at its base, and fibrinous clot towards its apex (Fig. 118) ; and that the hgatmed portion of the vessel is sinrounded by a quantity of lymph. If the artery be examined at a stiU later period than this—at the end of two or three months, for instance—it AviU be found to be converted into a fibro-ccUular cord as high as the fii’st collateral branch above the ligatme (Fig. 128). Now these appearances are analogous to those met with in an ai’tery that has been ent across and occluded without the appheation of a ligature ; and are evidently the result of so-called adhesive inflammation of the vessel. The question arises, how this inflammation is set up when a ligatme is applied. Is it by the pressme of the noose, or by the division of the coats of the artery ? That it is not the mere pressure of the ligature that excites the occluding inflammation, is CAddentfiom the experiments of Jones and of Travers, Avho found that, if the ligatinj were removed shortly after its application, sufficient inflammatory action had been excited in the coats of the artery to lead to its complete occ usion. nc