CAUTERISATION- AND PRESSURE. 279 blood \rhich is always observed on a cut surface. The mei*e exposiu’e of a wound, which has bled freely so long as it has been covered up by pledgets and bandages, to the cold air, is often sufficient. When this does not succeed, the application of a piece of lint, soaked in cold water, will usually arrest the flow of blood. When it is necessary to do this speedily, as in some operations about the air-passages, a small stream of cold Avater may be allowed to drip into the Avouud, and thus cause rapid contraction of the vessels, and consequent cessa- tion of bleeding. In cases of bleeding into some of the holloAV ca\ities of the body, as the rectum, vagina, or mouth, the apphcation of ice is advan- tageous, Its use should not, hoAvever, be too long continued, lest sloughing occiu'. Indeed, if cold do not speedily, almost at once, arrest the bleeding by constricting the vessels, it is better to have recourse to other and more efficient means. 2. Styptics aid powerfully the contraction of the vessels, and, by increasing the rapidity of formation and the firmness of the coaguliun, tend to arrest the hfBuiorrhage; they are principally used in oozing from spongy parts, or in bleeding frum caAuties or organs to which other applications cannot readily be made. The great objection to their employment in some wounds consists in their tendency to modify injiuiously the character of the siu’face, and to prevent imion by the first intention. The most useful styptics are the solution of perchloride of iron, spirits of tiu’pentine, gaUic acid, and matico ; the appli- cation of alum, or touching a bleeding part with a pointed stick of the nitrate of silver, is also serviceable. Of all these, the solution of the perchloride of iion, when injected into or apphed upon a bleeding part, acts as the readiest and most efficient ha3mostatic, coagulating the blood with remarkable rapidity, and into a very fii’m clot. In order to apply this or any other styptic effec- tually, the part should be wiped diy, aU coagula removed, and a piece of lint or cotton-Avool, soaked in the solution and then squeezed nearly dry, fii-mly apphed and maintained by the pressime either of the finger or of a pad and bandage. If the bleeding proceed from a mucous canal, this should be firmly plugged AA'ith the luit so prepared. 3. CAUTERISATION! by means of the red-hot iron Avas almost the only mode 0 anesting aiteiial htemoiThage that was knoAvn to the ancients. It is now comparatively seldom employed, but yet in many cases it is of the most un- questiona^ e utility, and sujierior to any other means that we possess ; more pai ici cU y in those cases in Avhich the ha3morrhage proceeds from a soft and poious part t at Avill not hold a hgatine, or from the siu'face of which many pom s appeal to be bleeding at the same time. A someAvhat conical iron of ^^sed, and the hc^morrhage will often be staid more e ec ua y 1 it be applied at a black, than at a red or Avhite heat. As the «ic ua cautery blocks up the artery by a thick slough or eschar, there is a Avays some anger of a recinrence of the bleeding AAffien it separates, and the burgeon must be on his guard about the sixth or eighth day lest the hmmor- riiage break out afresh. irrtsthfT'' bleeding part is a very efficient mode ot iaccnit to 1 .0 toat the vessel should have a bone sub- jacent to ,t, so as to aflord a pomt of eouuterpressure t hence it cannot readily