628 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. nTcmbrane is effected by the effusion of lymph, -which, in all eases in which the pulmonic pleura is injured, and hence in all eases of wounded lung, causes adhesions between it and the costal pleura, and thus obliterates to a certain extent the serous sac. If this inflammation run too high, if the constitution be unsound, or if blood or a foreign body be lodged in the cavity of the pleura, there will be effusion often to a A^ery considerable extent. The effused fluid is usually turbid sermn, full of flakes of lymph, which often adhere in large layers to the inside of the chest-wall; it is generally mixed with blood from the Avounded lung. This effusion Avill take place very rapidly, so as to half fill one side of the chest in three or four days. Eventually, there may be suppu- ration. The existence of these effusions of serum and pus mixed AAuth lymph and blood, may be recoginsed by the ordinary auscultatory signs ; dulness on percussion and absence of respiratory murmm- at the lower and posterior parts of the chest, up to a level that has a gTadual tendency to ascend, and that varies according as the patient is upright or recumbent, with ^gophony at the upper border of the fluid, until at last, the whole side of the chest being fiUed Avith fluid, there is complete absence of all breath and voice sounds and of vocal fremitus, AAuth increase of size on measurement, brdging of the intercostal spaces, compression of the lung against the spine ; and, if the left pleura be filled, displacement of the heart towards the right side ; if the right pleima be the seat of the accumulation, descent of the liver below its normal level. When the pleuritic effusion and extravasation reach such a degree as this, there is necessarily great dyspnoea, and death will usually speedily GHSIl.6. Collapse of the Lung in wounds of the chest, consequent upon the action of the atmospheric pressime on the outside of the organ, has been more fi-equently spoken about than seen. The chest may be largely opened, and the fuU pressiu-e of the atmosphere alloAved to act on the outer sm-face of the luno- and yet no collapse of this organ takes place. The lung in such cases may be seen rising and falling at the bottom of the wound. When collapse of the lung occurs in the early stage, it is, I believe, owing to compression by t e air sucked into the cavity of the pleina by pneumothorax. In the latter stages, it may be due to compression by haimothorax or empyema. The Prognosis in wounds of the lungs is necessarfly extremely imfavmn- able but less so than that of similar injuries of most of the other viscera. e dano-er will depend gi’eatly upon the mode of infliction of the wound and it extent. If the lung be wounded by the sharp end of a broken rib, recovciy usually ensues. Piinctm-ed wounds of the chest, penetrating the lungs, aie alwayJ veiw serious ; but here the danger wiU depend partly on the depth o f ii'nn mrtlv on the size of the instrument that occasions the Avoiiiid, to tho .oot of the lu„gs,theg.a^ 1 n-or fi-nTn h-nnioiThao-e by the implication of the larger vasciilai ti links. Gmi-shot woraids of the“chest ore far more dangerous thou stabs, to the laceration attendant on a btdleMvound,^ of the bullet or other foreign bodies. „f those rvho are *«t ‘W ‘’f'do'caKS at the'Hotel Dieu, 20 died. S:; of oltott occurring in the Crimean