937 LIGATURE OF NuEVUS. armed in the same way, cames its noose tlirongh the tumour as it is drawn out. The two nooses having then been cut, an assistant must seize, but not draw upon, six of the ligature ends ; the Surgeon, then, having divided the intervening bridge of skin, ties rather tightly, in a reef-knot, the two enda that are left hanging out; as soon as he has done this, he proceeds to the next two, and so on to the last (Fig. 335). AVhen he ties these, he must do so inth all his force, especially if the tumour be large, as by drawing on them he tightens all the other nooses, and drags the knots towards the centre of the growth, which is thus effectually strangled. He then cuts off the tails of the ligatme. After the tumour has sloughed aivay, which happens in a few days, if it be properly and tightly strangled, the wound is treated on or- dinary principles. If the nmvus be altogether subcutaneous, the skin covering it should not be sacrificed, but, being- divided by a crucial in- Fig. 334.—Diagram of the Application of Na3vus-needles. cision, may be turned down in foiu’ fiaps, and the bgature then tied as directed. In some cases, the nmvus is so flat and elongated that the application of the quadruple ligature, as above described, cannot include the whole of it. In these circumstances, I have found the ligature about to be described eminently useful, having successfully employed it in a great number of instances. Its great advantage is that, while it completely and very readily strangles the tumour, it does not inclose an undue quantity of integument, and thus does not produce a larger cicatrix than is necessary for the eradication‘of the disease. It is applied in the fol- lowing way. A long triangular needle is threaded on the middle of a whip-cord about three yards in length ; one half of this is staiued black with ink, the other half is left uncoloured. The needle is inserted through a fold of the sound skin, about a quai‘ter of an inch from one end of the tumour, and transversely to the axis of the same. It is then earned through, until a double tail, at least six inches in length, is left hanging from the point at which it entered’; it is next carried across the base of the tiunoin, entering and passing out beyond its lateral limits, so as to leave a series of double loops about nine inches in length on each side (Fig. 335). Every one of these loops should be made about three-quarters of an inch apart, including that space of the