PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 217 in tliis Avay it would appear that many sword-thrusts traversing the limbs were healed in a few hours or days. The process of suction cleared the wound thoroughly of all blood, and, druAving the sides into close apposition, placed^tlie parts in the most favourable condition possible for union by adhesion. _ ibis practice might, perhaps, in many cases be advantageously imitated m the present day by means of a cupping-glass and synngc. i\jnougst the vai-ieties of pimctured wounds that are most commonly met , with in o“rdinai-y practice, are those Avhich arc occasioned by needles penetrat- ino- into, and breaking off in the body. These accidents chiefly occim in the fingers and feet, and about the nates ; and, though triAial, are often extremely troublesome, both to Surgeon and to patient. When the Surgeon is called shortly after the occm-rence of the accident, he must endeavour to remove the frag-ment left behind, by cutting doAAm upon it. In doing this he AAiU be guided V the situation of the pimcture, and by the seat of the pain, i‘ and soinetimes by feeling the point projecting under the skin. In many cases this is a sufliciently simple proceeding ; in others, however, a deep and trouble- some dissection may be required, especially when the fragment of needle gets into or imder the sheaths of a tendon. I have had occasion to undertake someAvhat troublesome dissections between the biceps tendon and the brachial artery, or in the close proximity of the ulnar artery, for the removal of frag- ments of needles lodged in the bend of the arm and the AArist. For the pm^iose of extracting needles, thorns, sphnters of wood, and other foreigm bodies of small size and pointed shape lying in narrow wounds, the forceps shoAm in the annexed Avoodcut (Fig. 81) Avill be found most serviceable, as they haA’e very fine but strong and weU-serrated points. One of the most dangerous situations for a needle to penetrate is into the anterior part of the knee-joint, lodging on the head of the tibia or the patella, and breaking off short. In such cases the broken fragment should be dissected out at once, the limb put on a splint, and the ice-bag applied, so as to check inflanunation of the johit. I have knoAvn the most disastrous and disorganising inflammation and suppm’ation of the knee-joint ensue, Avith imminent peril to life, and folloAved by ankylosis, in consequence of a portion of needle having been alloAA^ed to remain embedded in this situation for some days. In many cases, if the needle haA’e been lodged for some days, the burgeon aaiII fail in his endcaA'ours to extract it ; and, unless the indications of its presence be very clear, I think the AAo’ser course would bo to leave it undisturbed, and to trust to natime for its expulsion from the body, as it can seldom be fm;nd aaFcu sought for, and, indeed, may not exist, although supposed to be present. The foUoAving plan of ascertaining Avhether a portion of needle be really impacted has been suggested by Marshall. A poAAmfful magnet is to be held upon the part for a quarter of an hoim, so as to influence the fragment; a finely hung lAolariscd needle should then be suspended over it, Avhen, if any iron be present, deflection aauII ensue. ' _ When a fish-hook, crochet-needle, or other barbed instrument has been nuA into the flesh, no attempt should be made to AvithdraAv it through the aperture Fig. 81.— Forceps for removing Small Point- ed Bodies.