TREATMENT OF FALSE JOINT. 393 structed so as to slide, by means of a rack-and-pinion oi by whicli the limb may be gradually lengthened to any required extent (Fig. 147). ■When the failure of union has become very chronic, and a False Joint has been formed, it vill be necessary to employ operative procedure betore union can be attained. All operations that are undertaken in these cases are conducted on one of tvo principles ; either, 1, to excite such inflammation in the false joint and the neigh- bouring tissues, as vdll lead to the formation of lymph capable of undergoing osseous transformation ; or else, 2, hij removing the false joint altogether, to convert the case into a recent compomid fractiu'e, and to treat it as such an accident. It can be easily understood that operative screw mechanism. Fig. 147. — ApiiiU'atUii for Uuunited Fracture of Femur. have known union effected in a patient of Liston’s, who had a false joint in the shaft of the femm ; though not until after the fractiu’e had been converted into a compomid one, and much danger and suffering incui-red. Foiu- years after the consolidation of the ununited fi’actiu’e, the patient was readmitted into the Hospital, mider my care, with fractiu-e of the same bone two inches lower down than the former injury ; on this occasion, union took place in the usual manner and time without any difficulty. The introduction of a seton across the false joint, though occasionally successful, is apt to give rise to dangerous and even fatal results, from arterial haemoiThage, erysipelas, diffuse inflammation, and suppuration of the limb. The threads must not be left in beyond a few days, when sufficient action wiU have been induced. A modifleatiou of the seton consists in passing a silver wire around the fracture, and gradually tightening this, so ,as to cut through the false joint at the same time that iiiflammatory action is excited in it. In performing this operation, it must be borne in mind that large arterial branches, and even the main trunk, especially in the thigh, may become firmly attached to the callus, so that unless care be taken they may readily be wounded. Dieffenbach has proposed to excite the requisite degree of inflammation by driving, with, a mallet, thi’ee or four conical ivory pegs into holes bored by means of a gimlet or drill into the ends of the fr-actm-od bone, which are exposed for this pmqiose. The awd, or drill, may be wmrked wflth the Archi- medean screw, and will then be found to penetrate much more easily. Points procediu-es conducted on these principles are too serious to be lightly undertaken, or to be had recom’se to until other measimes have failed, the mortality following them being, even according to public statistics, considerable, and probably very much greater than has been laid before the profession. 1. Among the first set of operations,—those that have in view the Excitation of sufficient Inflammation to cause Deposit of proper Plastic Matter, —the simplest procedme consists in the introduction of acupuncture needles, or in the subcutaneous section of the ligamentous band with a tenotome. In this Avay I