726 PY.EMIA. Gculy pei’iod ; the skin is genertilly of a dii’fcy-ycllow tinge, sometimes inteiisely jaundiced, uitli numerous spots ot livid mottling, due to the occurrence of local congestion. Any external wound may present a grey, sloughy or dry appearance ; and dark red lines may be seen extending upwards, indicating the course of the veins or lymphatics. d he Sloocl will often be found to be of a dai’k colour, fluid, oi' miperfectly coagulated, although sometimes it may present no abnormal appearance what- ever. Large numbers of white blood-corpuscles may be readily seen under the microscope, sometimes collected into masses, or entangled in a clot so as to give it a milky white appearance. The red corpuscles are frequently found to have broken up even before death, and the senim to be consequently darkly stained with blood-pigment. The Heart is frequently the seat of small extravasations, which may be found either beneath the pericardial or endocardial lining, or in the muscular substance itself. Sometimes, though not very often, abscesses are found situated either in the wall or in the papillary muscles ; these are usually small collections of puriform matter, rarely much larger than a pea, and often sm’- rounded by a zone of congestion or hmmorrhage. The muscular substance is flabby, and the lining membrane of both the heart and aorta is more or less deeply stained by imbibition of the coloiuing matter of the blood. Peri- carditis may result primarily from the formation of metastatic abscesses m the heart, but is usually secondary to the inflammation of the pleiua, Avhich is often very intense. Occasionally diflPuse acute inflammation of the muscular structm’e of the heart is found, without any distinct abscess having been formed. The Lungs are much congested, especially at the posterior bases, where the tissue is friable ; sometimes this congestion passes into true pneumonia, Avhich almost always exists to some extent at least. The most important condition present in these cases is the existence of metastatic abscesses, which may vary much in number and size. These are commoifly found scattered over the siu'face, and are almost invariably siurounded by a zone of condensed lung- tissue, the result either of inflammatory action or of haemoiThagic mjection ; and are still fiuther smTounded by an area of active congestion. The position of these abscesses is usually indicated on the siuface by a shght elevation ; their form is most commoifly wedge-shaped, the broader part or base being directed towards the surface. The central part of the mass consists of a grey slough, which may or may not have softened down into a grumous semi-fluid matter. The area of haemorrhage, measuring from one-eighth to half an inch in breadth, may present the ordinary characters of Imig-apoplexy, closely resembling damson-cheese on section ; or, it may appear of a tawny-yellow colour fr’om partial reabsorption of blood-pigment. The size of these deposits varies greatly, from less than that of a pea to two or three inches in diametei. They are most commonly foimd on the posterior siutace of the lower lobe, or in the interlobular flssm’e. The pleiuisy lyhich accompanies, and piobably in most cases results from, the formation ol the deposit is often Aeiy se\eie. le pleiu’al siu'face is freely covered with patches of inflammatoiy l} inph, w i s coiTesponding quantities of deeply coloured tiubid fluid arc usually collecte into the plem'al sac. Sometimes, though rarely, small collections of pus are