2 54 EFFEGTS OF HEAT AND COLD. cicatiix results in these cases, yet discoloration of the integ’ument is often left. In the thml degree the whole of the cuticle is destroyed, with a portion of the true skin ; but the cutis vera is not entirely destroyed. This is a most im- portant point, as it influences materially the character of the resulting cicatrix. As a thin layei of tine skin is left at the bottom of the eschar, complete repro- duction of the whole thickness of the integmnental structures is not necessary. In these cases there is a vivid red granulating surface, which suppimatcs abundantly. As the action of the burn extends to unequal depths, the granulatious will be very irregular, and, mdess great care be taken, the resulting cicatrix Ayill present coiresponding elevations and depressions. In the fourth degree there is comj)lete destruction of the skiii through its whole thickness, so that the subcutaneous areolar tissue is opened up. The process of cicatrisation in these cases may take place either by the growing- together of the opposite sides of the wound that results from the separation of the eschars, or by the formation of a thick and highly contractile cicatrix of entirely new formation. The process of repair in these cases is very slow, and is attended by long-continued suppuration. The resulting cicatrix is at first thin, red or purplish, glazed, often in the form of bands or bridles, and is liable to occasion great deformity by the cohesion of parts, as of the fingers, or by contraction, as at the elbow, or at the side of the neck and face, or by the closine of apertures, as of the nostrils. In the fifth and sixth degrees the destructive influence of the bimi penetrates to a greater or less depth into the muscles, bones, or joints. In the fifth degree, the more superficial muscidar structines are impheated : in the sixth degree the whole thickness of the limb may be destroyed and charred. This is very briefly the celebrated classification introduced by Dupuytren, and adopted by most writers on the subject as a practical exposition of the local efiect of burns. These various degrees are usually foimd associated to a greater or less extent; indeed, in the more severe cases, the first three or foin degrees are almost invariably met with together. SingicaUy, the fourth degree is the most important, and most severe biuns extend to it. Its importance is due to the complete destruction of the whole thickness of the skin, and the consequent extensive gi-anulating and suppm-ating siu’faces that are left; and to the tendency to deformity fr-om the contraction of the cicatrices, formed as they are of entirely new tissue, the great peculiarity and tendency of which is to contract into hard bands and bridles. The primary local effect, then, of a burn, if superficial, is to excite inflamma- tion of the skin ; if more extensive, to destroy more or less the soft sti-uctines, and even the bones. '\^Tien the cuticle is luibrokeu, the inflammation speedily subsides with some desquamation. When the soft parts are chaired, they are detached by a process of ificeration, analogous to what happens in the separa- tion of sloughs ; and an ulcerating and suppinating surface is left, remarkable for the large size, the florid colour, the great vascularity, and the rapid groudh of its granulations. The cicatrisation of such an ulcer, though generally pro- ceeding with great rapidity, has a constant tendency to be airested by the exuberance of the granulations. The cicatrix is usually thin, and of a bluish- red colom, and is especially characterised by a great disposition to contract.