592 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. by Iloistcr, was first performed by lionis and Cline. It may be done as follows. The patient lying on his face, a free incision, several inches in length, from three to fi^•e, according to the extent of the injury, is made along the line of the spinous processes, and the muscular masses on each side of the spine ■are dissected away, so as to expose the osseous surfaces. The spinous pro- -cesses, at the seat of injury, should then be successively seized with strong for- ■ceps, and gently but firmly moved, in order to see whether there be fractine at their base or supporting arches. If a portion of bone be completely broken •off it may, after all ligamentous connexions have been severed, be raised l:»y the forceps or an elevator. Should one arch only be broken through, the un- injured one may be divided by cutting pliers or a Key’s saw ; or, should both be unbroken, the Surgeon may, if he think it prudent to proceed fruther, ■divide both in this way, and so remove them and the spinous j)rocesses, and ' •expose the theca of the cord. After the operation, the wound is to be •simply dressed and the patient kept in the prone position. The results of this operation are not very encoiuaging. It has been per- formed by various Siugeons in different countries, but chiefly in America, about thirty times ; and, although some temporary advantage seems to have j ■occurred in a few of the cases, permanent success has only been obtained in j, one instance by Gordon of Whitworth Hospital, Dublin, but even in this | ease the paralysis remained. But, though so far the result has been but little satisfactory, ought Siu'geons to discard the operation ? I think not : because, as fractm-e of the spine -with serious lesion of the cord cannot be recovered from, and has an almost invariably fatal termination, and as the eKl conse- quences of the fractiu-e are dependent not only upon the primary lesion of the cord, but on the secondary disorganising and mflammatory processes set up in it by the continued irritation of the fractured fragments, we are jirstified in attempting the removal of this soiu’ce of certain misery and impending death by the only means in our power—operative procedm-e ; and we are the more justified in this com-se, as the operation is not neces- sarily dangerous, does not appear often to have hastened death, and has certainly, iii some cases, afforded most marked relief, the paralytic symptoms disappearing to a great extent, and the patient being able to move limbs that were previously motionless. One serious objection that has been urged against the operation must not, however be overlooked. It is, that in the great majority of cases the fr-acture | of a vertebra is through the body and not through the arches. This undoubtedly 1 4.. i‘h ihis circumstance that has rendered the operation as yet little !