9SS ADDENDA TO VOLUME I. Page 31)1. 9.- PEKOUSSION IN THE TREATMENT OP UNUNITED PRACTURES. Percussion of the ends of the bones has been successfully employed in these cases by I\Ir. H. (). Thomas, The method consists in protcctino- the skin at the seat of fracture with a piece of felt, and then percussing forcibly the ends of the broken but ununited bone by means of a copper mallet. The percussion under anmsthesia may be continued for several—as many as ten—minutes ; it may only be required once, or may need several repetitions. The effect is a good deal of local sn elling and irritation. The limb should be put up firmly as for recent fracture, and a cure may be expected in fr'om foiu’ to sLx weeks. Page 4G1. 10.—MANIPULATIONS IN DISLOCATIONS. Reduction of Dislocatiom of Hf ly Manipulation is first described by Thomas: Anderson, Surgeon, of Leith, in the third volume of “The Medical and Philosophical Commentaries” for 1775. He describes two cases, one of dislocation on the foramen ovale in a man—the other a dislocation on the dorsum ilii in a boy. In the first case the pullies had been used ineffectually several times, when the “ lacque ” slipping, their use was discontinued. Mr. Anderson says ; “ I Avas convinced that attempting the reduction in the common method, with the- thigh extended, Avas improper, as the muscles Avere put upon the stretch, the action of which is perhaps sufficient to overcome any extension we can employ. But by bringing the thigh to near a right angle with the tnmk, by which the muscles would be gxeatly relaxed, I imagined the reduction might more readily take place, and Avith much less extension. “ I o-aised the thigh to alout a right angle ivith the trunh, and, Avith my right hand at the ham, laid hold of the thigh, and made what extension I could. At the same time that I did this, with my left hand at the head and inside of the thigh, I pressed it toAvards the acetabulum, while my right gaA’e the femur a little circular turn, so as to bring the rotula inwards to its natin-al situation, and at the second attempt it Avent in with a snap.” In the second case, the reduction Avas not attempted till the eighteenth day after the accident. The patient was laid across the bed, and the thigh raimt so as to form cm acute angle with the trunk. In this situation, the knee of the dislocated limb lay considerably over the sound thigh. “ Considerable ex- tension Avas then made ; Avith my left hand I laid hold of the middle of the leg which I brought iiiAvards. By this the femur made a circular turn, Avhich directed its head toAvards the acetabulum, into Avhich it Avent Avith a sensible noise” (pp. 4:^0—428).