684 SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE DISEASES. eA'idcncc of the iulriiig'oaieut of the sanitary laws in accordance with which the arran<>'emcnts ot an hospital should be regulated. But though it commonly has its origin in this way, especially in the crowding of military hospitals after a hard-lought action, it is met with out of hospitals. Well-marked cases of this atfectiou, some of a rery severe character, have at times occuiTcd amongst the out-patients of University College Hospital. In these cases, as in many others, it is probable that the disease was occasioned by the neglect of hygienic conditions, in the close and ill-ventilated houses of the poor, aided possibly by some atmospheric or epidemic influence ; influenza, erysipelas, and phlebitis being also very prevalent. This had been observed at the time of the first occuiTence of the disease at our Hospital, in 1841 ; and it is impossible not to recognise a similarity of cause in these different affections. It is a highly con- tagious disease, and when once it has broken out it will readily spread from patient to patient by contact with nurses’ or Surgeons’ fingers, instruments, dressings, and above all if the pernicious custom of using sponges in wards be adopted. It is impossible to be too careful in these respects. It may also be carried by organic particles in the air, and thus be said to be “ in- fectious.” Treatment.—The preventive treatment of hospital gangrene may be deduced from a consideration of the causes that give rise to it. It ought never to occur in a civil hospital. Its presence there is the severest condemnation that can be given of the sanitary condition of the Institution, and is an evidence that those arrangements which ought to exist in every well-conducted hospital are neglected. By avoiding over-crowding it need never occm\ In military practice its prevention may almost to a certainty be secured by treating the wounded under canvas, in “ hut-hospitals,” or in the open. Should it break out, the building in which it has developed itself should at once be abandoned or destroyed. The spread of this fell disease may be prevented by at once isolating the affected patient, treating him in the open, putting him as it were in quaran- tine, alloAving no contact between his attendants and other patients. Should it have broken out in a Civil Hospital, the first pomt to attend to is to p)-e,vent the extension of the disease to patients who are not as yet affected. This may be done by separating those who have been seized with it from the healthy, by preventing overcroAvding of the hospital, ventilating the wards, washing the floors with a solution of the chlorides, whitening the walls, and fumigating the apartment with chlorine gas. Local Treatment.—The extension of the slough must be stopped by the free application of fuming nitric acid, or of the actual cautery, to the edges and surface of the ulcer. I have used both these agents, but prefer the nitric acid, if strong and freely applied, the sides and edges being AveU sponged with it. The actual cautery is, however, very useful in those cases in Avhich the smface J to be destroyed is very extensive, or if there be a tendency to haemorrhage. ^ Should it not reach the deeper portions of the sore, nitric acid may be fr-ccly | sponged into them. It is important to bear in mind that those escharotic 'I applications should be carried deeply, so as to affect the li\ing stiuctmes lying | beneath the tenacious gTey pulpy slough, and that their action be not ^ fruitlessly expended upon charring this, which is afready disoiganised. ence, j