380 FliAG TUBES. A peculiar accidoufc is occasionally met Avith in young people, consisting in a fracture of one of the long bones at the junction of the shaft and epiphysis, and the protrusion of the end of the shaft through the muscles and integuments. In these cases, although the fracture is in close Ticinity to the joint, the articulation is not affected, and careful examination will always prove its sound condition. Ecduction in such cases is clifRcult, and it is usually im- possible to maintain it without sawing off the projecting end of the shaft. This is easily done, and union takes place readily between the epiphysis and the remainder of the shaft. In two instances in which I have had to do this in lads, one near the shoulder, the other near the ankle, an excellent result without impairment of freedom of action in the joint followed the operation. 3. When one of the larger Arteries of the Limb has been wounded by the violence that occasions the fracture, or has been lacerated by the broken bone itself, there may be copious arterial hasmorrhage externally, as well as extravasation into the general areolar tissue of the limb. These cases most commonly require immediate amputation. Whilst the patient is being ex- amined, and preparation made for the operation, dangerous effusion of blood must be carefully prevented by the elevated position and by the application of a tourniquet. For want of this simple precaution, I have seen very large and even fatal quantities of blood gradually lost, by being allowed slowly to trickle from the wound. In these cases it has been proposed, by some Smgeons of great eminence, to enlarge the wound in the Umb, or to make an incision down to the fractm-e, and attempt to tie the artery whore it has been injiued. It is easy to give, but difficult to carry out, such precepts. In most cases they are scarcely practicable, as the Surgeon would have to grope in the midst of bleeding and infiltrated tissues, and Avould experience the greatest possible difficulty in finding the wounded vessel, after a search which would materially tend to increase the disorganisation of the limb. Even after the amputation of a limb in this condition, it is often by no means easy on dissection to find the artery that has poured out blood ; and how much more difficult must it be to search for it successfully during life ! The hgatiue of the artery at a higher point of the limb does not hold out much prospect of success, for the same reasons that render its performance in- admissible in ordinary wounds of arteries (p. 285). This operation has succeeded in restraining hsemoiThage or in cming diffused tramnatic aneurism in simple fractines. But I know of no case in which it has been successful in the permanent arrest of immanj haemorrhage in a compound fi’actine. If, then, proper means directed to the woimd, such as position, pressme, or perhaps the attempt at ligatirre if the artery can be easily reached, be not successM, no coiu’se is left to the Singeon but to amputate the limb without delay. _ Tins is more especially the case if it be the lower extremity that is injincd : m the arm, there is a better prospect of our being able to arrest the bleeding v 1 ou having recom’se to this extreme measure. Secondanj haemorrhage occrnring m the course of treatment of a compound fracture of the lower extremity is ar less serious than the primary. It has been an-ested by pressme anc an and in many cases by the ligature of the superficial femoia . * mpii a 1011, therefore, may be delayed in these cases imtil after the consecutive emp oymen and fiiilm’e of these two methods.