125 rilE VENT IVE TEE A TMENT. exposure to a draught of cold air or to wet, to the development of the local disease. The inflammation will, therefore, usually be prone to become wide- spread, and frequently has a tendency to assume a low ty2)0. In the case of a similar inflannnation, as of the lung, following an injury, as a wound of the organ, in an otheiuvise perfectly healthy subject, the disease will be localised in the seat of injury; having little tendency to spread, and usually assuming the active sthenic character. If, however, the constitution be in a bad state, and the blood unhealthy, or if the patient be exposed to uufavoiu’able hygienic con- ditions, a very shght injury may develop a wide-spread inflammation, which will then always assume a low and usually an erysipelatous form. Treatment of Inflammation.—It is interesting, and possibly practically useful, to study the inflammatory process pathologically and physiologically, and to recognise in it a modification or aberration of nutrition rather than a distinct disease. Yet, when we have to deal mth it therapeutically or sm-gi- cally, when we meet Avith it in the hospital-ward and not in the dead-house, or in the web of the fr’og’s foot in the physiological laboratory, we must be pre- pared to encounter it as a disease often of the most frital and destructiA'e character ; always dangerous to life or to organ when it passes certain hmits ; often dangerous to integrity of structime, even in its simplest forms ; and, when afiecting certain constitutions, as the strumous, liable to become most difficult of cure and inveterately chi’onic. Hence I shall speak of inflammation as we meet AAith it in siu-gical jiractice as essentially and substantially a disease, to be treated, cured, or removed as such. The Treatment of Inflammation may be divided into the Preventive and the Curative. The Preventive Treatment can be employed only in inflammation super- vening on injiu-y. In it the principal point to be attended to is, the removal of the local and constitutional causes of irritation. By doing this, the occiu’rence of inflammation in a liart that has been injured or otherwise disposed to its acces- sion may be entirely prevented, or, if this be not accomplished, the inflammation may be much lessened in seveidty. The local preventive treatment of inflam- mation is best can-ied out by the removal of all sources of iivita- tion, by absolute rest o‘J-—in'giiting Aniaratus. of the part, and by the fr’ce application of cold. If the injury be superficial, and not very severe, lint ippcd m cold water, fr-equently renewed, may be applied ; or, if the skin be muroken, an evaporating lotion may be used. Should a limb or joint be