26i OTERsiTIONS OX CONTRACTED CICATRICES. 1. In the first operation, that of simply Dividing the Cicatrix, three points require special attention : 1st, that the division extend completely thron<?h the cicatrix from side to side into the adjacent healthy skin ; 2nd, that the incision be earned throu<?h the whole depth and thickness of the cica- trix into the healthy cellnlo-adipose layer which will be found beneath it, and may always be recognised by its yellow colom-; 3rd, that all contractile bands lying in this layer be fairly divided. The great obstacle to the success of this operation, however, consists in the fiict that the new granulations, which spring up after the division of the contracted cicatrix, are in their turn liable to take on contractile action. After the di^'ision of the cicatrix, also, it may be foiuid that the subjacent structures have been so rigidly fixed in their abnormal posi- tion as not to admit of extension. It may then be necessary to employ screw- apparatus, or even to divide fascia) and tendons, before the part can be restored to its normal shape. Care must, however, be taken in doing this, that subja- cent structures of importance, such as large blood-vessels, or nerves, be not so closely connected with the cicatrix as to render Avound or division of them raiavoidable. In the neck, cicatricial bands AviU often come into very dangerous ]iroximity to the external jugular vein, which becomes gveatly distended by the pressiu’e thus exercised upon it. And at the elbow, which is a common seat of contraction from bums, the brachial artery may become involved in the cicati'ix to a dangerous extent. I have heard of one case in which this vessel Avas divided in cutting through the cicatrix, Avhen amputation of the ann was immediately resorted to. These operations are most successful in cases of contraction at the flexures of the joints, as of the elboAV. There, all that need be done is to divide the cicatrix down to the subjacent healthy structures, and then, by the aj)phcation of splints or scrcAV-apparatus, gTadually to extend the limb, and allow granu- lation to go on in the extended position. Much caution, however, Avill here be necessary ; for, if the contraction be of A’ery long standiug, the arteries and uerAcs Avill have become shortened, and incapable of stretching luider any force that may be safely employed ; hence they may easily be torn. 2. Oj)Ciations that are undertaken for the removal of the disAgiuements that occur about the flice and neck as the result of burns, require much manage- ment. In these cases, simjAle diA'ision of the cicatrix is insufficient; and Transplantation of a Flap of Skin is required in adchtion. After the cicatiix and all cicatrieial bauds haAn been freely dinded in accordance Avith t e lules just giAeu, a flap^ of integimient, of sufficient size to All the greater part of the gap, must be dissected up from the neighboiuing parts of the neck, chest, or shoidder, and laid into the cicatrix. There it should be flxed by two 01 ree points of suture ; but extreme care must be taken that no traction be pu upon it, lest it slough. Union takes place by the second intention in the majoiity o instances ; but a A'ery satisflictory result is left, as is shown by the annexcc gures (107, 108), taken before-aiid after operation, and as has been i!!) nf T T TI>0 directions given by Toalo for the ly ciiatrisal r fT' - rose rofl ivf r''" ’T'"’ r ‘0 ts, that I gne them nearly m Ins own words. The everted lip is divided