560 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. case, wliicli was supposed to be one of apoplexy, and ti’eated accordingly, proved fatal in a few hours. On examination after death the skull was found fractured, but not depressed. On the opposite side to the bruise and fracture, a coagulum, weighing nearly four ounces and compressing the brain, lay between the dura mater and bone. In such a case, it is evident that the history can alone alford a clue to its true nature. Even when the head has been injured, it is not always easy. A man was admitted under my care, comatose. A fortnight previously, he had been struck on the left side of the head behind the ear. He Avas stumied, bled freely from the left ear, but then recoAm’ed tolerably, and Avent about his avocations as usual until the day bcfol’e his admission, Avhen he became suddenly comatose. There were stertor, cpiick pulse, and some heat of head; the right pupil was natinal, the left contracted. He was treated anti- phlogistically, but died on the third day. On examination, a fractine on the left side of the skull Avas fomid, extending hito the left internal meatus; on the right side of the head, immediately opposite the fracture and the seat of injury, there was a large coagulum in the caA'ity of the arachnoid, Avith some sero- plastic exudation about it. Here was a meningeal extravasation, the result of contrecoup, existing Avithout symptoms for fomteen days, and' then proving rather suddenly fatal by inflammation. A woman, whilst AA'alking with her sister, fell in the street. She was taken up insensible ; thought to have a fit; became comatose, hemiplegic in the right side, and died the next day. After death the left parietal bone was found fractured, and a clot that weighed five and a half oimces was found lying over the ruptined middle meningeal artery on the dina mater. Or the injury may be so slight as barely to attract attention: a lady going into the opera stumbled as she went down some stahs, and struck the side of her head against the Avail. She felt giddy and confused, returned home, went to bed, Avas fonnd comatose the next day. I was sent for, but before I could trephine her she had died. On examination, a fom-oimce clot was found in the dina mater, under a ruptm-ed meningeal artery, but Avithout fractme. I have seen the same in a boy, who, running doAvn stans to his dinner, struck his head against the opposite wall; he ate his dinner, vomited, became drowsy, and died. A large clot was found in the dma mater at the part struck. In neither of these cases was there any external bruise or other sign of injury. The insensibility of drunlcenmss may usually be distinguished from the coma resulting from injuries of the head, by the absence of local mischief, by the smeU of the breath, and by the face of the di'unkard being flushed and tmgid, and not pale as in a person who is suffering from the effects of a severe injury. When a drunken person has met Avith an injmy of the head and is insensible, he should always be carefully watched, however slight the injury may appcim to be, until sufficient time has elapsed for him to recover from his draiiken fit; as it is impossible to say Avhether the stupor be the result of intoxication, or ot mischief Avithin the skidl; and I have known cases to be sent aivay from hospitals as dimiik, when in reahty the stupor Avas occasioned by depressed ^°ln the stupor from poisoning Ig opium, the condition of the pupils, which arc contracted to the size of a pin’s point, instead of being widely dilated as m coma from cerebral compression, AviU enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. I i I