SYMPTOMS OF FRAG TUBED BIBS. Fractures of tlic ribs may be single; muUqjh wlien SGTcral, or even the vholc of the ribs on one side, or several on both sides, are fractured ; simile, as ^ ordinary violence ; and compound, as in gunshot injuries; or when the DioKen ends are driven into the lung. , a -if iiiy one of the ribs may be broken, and frequently several are ti-actuieci ac the same time. The middle ribs, from the fourth to the eighth, are those that most frequently give way, being most exposed, and at the same time hxea. The first and second ribs arc seldom broken, being protected by the clavicle and shoulder. ’When they are fractured it is usually the result of gunshot or, if from some of the ordinary accidents of civd life, the clavicle mil be broken as well. But this is not an invariable complication. I have seen fr-actines ot the first two ribs from a fall, without any injury to neighbouring bones. ^ This fr-acture is always very dangerous, on accomit of the liability to injiny ot important subjacent structincs. The lower ribs, being less fii-mly fixed than the others, commoidy escape, unless very great and dfrect violence be inflicted upon them. Any part of a rib may be broken by direct violence ; but when the fractine is the result of compression of the chest, it is usually the point of greatest convexity or the neighbourhood of the angle of the rib that gives way. These indirect fi-actines most commonly occin in elderly people, in whom the elasticity of the thoracic pailetes has lessened as the result of age. Symptoms.—The chief symptom is a sharp pricking and catching pain at the seat of injury, increased by breathing deeply, or by coughing. In order to avoid this, the inspirations are shallow, and the breathing is principally diaphi-agmatic and abdominal. On laying the hand over the seat of injury, and desiring the patient to cough, crepitus may often be felt; and in most cases this is audible on applying the ear to the chest. Occasionally the outline of the rib ivill be found to be irregular ; and in some instances, where several ribs are broken, the whole side of the chest is flattened and depressed. Besides these local symptoms, special complications resulting from the lacera- tion of the plem’a and lung, such as hjemoptysis, pneumothorax, or emphy- sema, may occur. These complications are much less frequent than might a p-iori be supposed, [ovdng to the fractming force being usually indirect, causing the rib to bend outwards, and thus to break away from, instead of into, the chest. The danger of fractmed ribs depends on the thoracic compheations, and these will chiefly be occasioned by one of two conditions : either by the forcible driring in of the fractined end of one rib, so that the pleura and lung become woimded by the sharp and ragged fragment; or else by a large number rof ribs being broken by a severe squeeze of the chest, and the thoracic organs injined by the general compression. It is surprising, however, what an extent of injury of this kind may take place without serious consequences. I have had under my care a young man, Avho, in consequence of a crush of the chest, in a railway accident, had the upper seven ribs broken on the right side, and the lower five on the left, the chest, especially on the right side, being gveatly flattened ; he recovered without a bad symptom. In gunshot injuries of the chest, with splintering of the ribs, there is always wound of the contained organs, which becomes the main source of danger to the patient and of attention on the part of the Surgeon. Treatment.—In treating fr'actured ribs, the Surgeon need not concern him- VOL. I. D D