IXJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 198 points to be considered are the hygienic conditions which snrronnd the patient, and those to Avhich the wound is exposed. The more favourable the genera! hygienic conditions siUTomiding the patient, ccateris paribus, the more favour- able Avill be the prospect of the wound towards recovery. Every Avell known sanitary regulation as to diet, ventilation, temperature, and clothing should be adopted with this view. Blit the local hygienic conditions—those which directly and immediately affect the wound itself—are of still greater consequence. The woiuid is aii open portal through which the most deadly influences may readily gain entry into the stronghold of life. Hence it must be jealously and keenly watched. In private practice, and in the open country, fewer precautions may be necessary than in the wards of hospitals or the crowded Labitations of a large town. Were hospitals situated, constructed, and managed in accordance vith Avell knovni and universally received hygienic rules, much of the labom-, and the greater jiart of the anxiety, of the Surgeon would be spared; for the healing of a wound mider favomable hygienic circumstances is a simple affair—^\vhich, after the first needful attentions have been bestoAved upon it, after the bleeding has been arrested, the sm'faces cleaned, brought and held together— may usually be left to Hatine and to cleanliness. But the labom of the Surgeon is expended on, and his mind is anxiously directed to, the adoption of means to prevent infection of the wound ; and, if that infection have taken place, to prevent the local evil from contaminating the general system. It is by infection that simple Avounds, instead of imiting by the fli'st intention, become suppiu'ating chasms. It is by infection that putrefacth'e decomposition is set up on the suppurating surfaces. It is by infection that the foul and sloughy siu’face becomes the central point Avhence erysipelas spreads and pyiemia invades the system. Keep out infection, and local destruction, folloAved by constitutional contami- nation, is aA'erted. Admit it, and every cAdl, to those most terrible of aU, hos^iital gangrene, and pyaemia, may occiu’. The local hygienic precautions to be adopted consist in the most scrupulous attention to cleanliness : the exposime of the Avomid to an atmosphere im- poUnted by the reek of the out-patients’ rooms, or the feetor of the dead- house ; sponges only to be used in the operating theatre ; frequently rencAved and purified by carbolic acid ; the instruments, dressings, and Augers clean, and, Avhen used for the hAong, never allowed to come into contact AAuth the dead ; and, above all, never to be contaminated by putrescent matters. The clothes, the bedding, all those “fomites,'' which may harbour infectiA^e particles, should be carefully attended to. The more special method of pm-ifleation of chessiugs, and of preventing decomposition in the fluids of the Avound, must be effected by the use of antiseptics. The prevention of decomposition in the woimd may be effected in tAvo Avays, which are, indeed, usually combined, viz.': 1. By the employment of antiseptics, of which a vast number haA^e been employed in siu'gical practice —fi'om the Avine and balm of the ancient to the carbolic acid of the modern Siu’geon ; and 2. By securing free exit to the secretions of the Avounded surfaces, either by dressing the wound open ft’om the flrst, by closing it and keeping one corner open by a tent, or by the draliiage-tube.