746 TUMOURS. and submitting it to microscopic and chemical examination. If it bo of low specific gravity and free from albumen, it is almost certain to have come from a true hydatid cyst Ihe Treatment of these cysts, when practicable, is the of the parasite. In internal organs, tapping, aspiration, and simple acupuncture, have all been successful. A few years ago I successfully rcniovod a hydatid cyst of the size of a fist from the muscles at the back of the neck of a young man. II.-TUMOUBS COMPOSED OP ONE OP THE MODIFICATIONS OP FULLY DEVELOPED CONNECTIVE TISSUE. ^ The structures included under the term connective tissue and its modifica- tions are fat, fibrous and areolar tissue, cartilage, bone, and mucous tissue. The tumoiu-s composed of any of these tissues in a state of perfect development are almost uniformly benignant. Occasionally enchondroma assumes a malignant form, but it will then be usually found that, instead of being covered by a firm fibrous membrane at the margin of the growth, there is a zone of embiyonic tissue which is infiltrating the sinTounding jiarts on one side and becoming developed into cartilage on the other. It is from this tissue, probably, that the system becomes infected, and not from the fully developed cartilage. In the same Avay, tumours ivhich to the naked eye seem to be composed of bone may assume all the characters of malignancy ; but on microscopic examination it will be found that these tumours do not grow as normal b.onc does, either from a fibrous membrane (periosteum) or from cartilage, but are in fact ossifying sarcomata. These will be described amongst the sarcomata. Again, there is no absolute boundary betAveen sarcoma and fibroma. Many tumours composed almost entirely of spindle-cells contain a large proportion of fibrous tissue between the cells. If the fibres very much exceed the cells, the gTowth would be called a fibroma ; if the reverse a sarcoma ; and one between the two is often spoken of as a fibro-sarcoma. As a broad rule, it may be said that the beuignancy of the groAvth will be in proportion to the perfection of the de- velopment of the tissue of which it is composed. a. Fatty Tumour or Lipoma.—These tumours constitute an important class of surgical diseases, as they occur A'ery extensively in almost every part of the body, and at all ages, though they are most commonly met Avith about the earlier periods of middle life. In the majority of cases they appear to originate without any evident cause ; in other instances they can be distinctly traced to pressure or to some local irritation, as to that of braces or shoulder-straps over the back and shoulders. In one case I have known the disease to be here- ditarily transmitted to the members of three generations of a fiimily. Fatty accumulations take place under two forms, one diffused, the other circumscribed; it is the latter variety only that is termed the Adipose or Fatty Tumour. The diffused form of fatty deposition occurs in masses about the chin or nates without constituting a disease, though it may occasion much disfigiun- ment. This form Avas described by Brodie under the name of “ latty outgroAvth.” Fatty or adipose tumours may fom in all parts of the body as soft, indolent, inelastic, doughy SAvellings, sometimes giving rise on manipulation to a feeling closely resembling fluctuation. They groAV very sloAvly, and are usually OA'al or round in form, but frequently lobulated to a most extraordinary degree.