756 TUMOURS. agreeing with the cancellous tissue of the extremity of a long bone, and the ivory or hard exostosis corresponding to the petrous portion of the temporal, • J jJUI VJI UUO LL-lXipUicU J the lower jaw, or the compact tissue of a long bone. Both forms are invariably non-malignant- cl- ^ Spongy E.costoses, sometimes called pedunculated or cauliflower exostoses, iVom their shape, are most common at the upper end of the humerus and the lower end of the femur, and on the ungual phalanx of the great toe (Fig. 284). If observed during the stage of growth, they are found to be covered by a perfectly developed hyaline cartilage, which ap- parently grows from the perichondrium covering it, and quickly undergoes ossification at its deep siuface. If the tumour be observed when all growth has ceased, it will be found to be com- pletely bony, being composed of a pedmiculated mass of cancellous tissue, covered thinly by a layer of compact bone. The cancellous tissue of the tumoim is continuous mth that of the bone upon which it grows, the compact tissue of the shaft being absorbed beneath the base of the tumour. Sometimes these tumours are hereditary and mul- tiple. They scarcely ever reach a gveat size, and probably cease to grow if they become completely ossified. Ivory Exostoses.—These tumours form flat rounded elevations, usually seated about the bones of the skull or face. They are covered with a fibrous mem- brane and are of intense hardness. Occasionally they are multiple and grow to a considerable size, and when seated on the facial bones distort the featiues honibly, and at last after years of sufiering possibly cause death by pressure on the brain. e Myxoma. Mucous Tumour.—These tumoius are classed by some Avriters under sarcomata, as the tissue of which they are composed closely resembles the rudimentary fat of the embryo. In the adult, the vitreous body of the eye is the only part in which mucous tissue is nonnally found. _ Many tiunom’S formerly described as coUoid cancer belong properly to this class. Myxomata usually foim round, oval, or lobulated masses, distinctly siuTomided by a loose capsule of comiectiye tissue. They are tense, elastic, and gelatinous, finquently giving rise to a sense of fluctuation so distinct as to lead to then- being mistLn for cysts. They are usually of slow growth On section they are found to be of a delicate pink colom-, sometimes stained by hmmoiihages, or they may present an uniform yeUowish tint. The most marked peculiar tj they pesout oa section is in the finid which flows from ‘^0 cut smiace Ih s is abundant, glairy, and tenacious, haring the appearance ot thick gran watci. On chemical lamination it is found to contain mnens ; tion shows (Fig. 285) in the purest forms of myxoma ^*'*0 heir corn- composed of large stellate or branched cells, the processes of ““ municate with one another. These cells are embedded m an almost homo B Fig. 284.—Pediiiiculatetl exos- toses (natural size). A. From femur of a boy. B. From scaiiula of a ehiUl three years old. a. Hyaline cartilage. Z). Layer of imperfect ossilica- tion. c. AA-ell-formed spongy bone. d. Periosteum. The drawing illustrates the dif- ferent proportions* which the va- l ious constituents of the tumour may bear to one another. 1