TREATMENT OF ^YOUNBE OF THE ABDOMEN. 6^5 If the wound have not implicated any of the abdominal viscera, it must be closed by relaxing the abdominal muscles by position, ]:>y introducing a few points of suture through the integuments, if it be extensive, and by applying a compress and plaster, supported by a bandage. Th#patient should then have a full dose of opium; about two grains of solid opium or forty minims of the liquor sedativus, which must bo repeated in from four to six hoiu’S, so that the elfccts may be kept up. I prefer in these cases the solid opium, of which as much as fr-om six to eight grains may be given in twenty-four hom'S. The patient should be kept perfectly quiet in bed, and no nourishment given for a few days, except barley-water and ice. The bowels should not be opened by aperient medicine, lest abdominal irritation be set up, but oleaginous enemata may be administered at the end of a week or ten days. If the intestine he wounded but not protruding, we must endeavoiu’ to limit the peritonitis that will ensue, and also to prevent feculent extravasation. The patient shoidd be laid on the injiu’ed side vdth the wound dependent, so as to allow the fteccs to escape thi’ough it, if disposed to do so. If the injury be about the umbilicus, he must lie upon his back with the knees drawn up and bent over a pillow. Opium must then be administered in the fuU doses already indicated, and repeated in gi-ain doses at least every fourth or sixth hour, so that the system may be kept well under its influence. The value of opium in these cases is very great; it not only seems to moderate the inflam- mation of the peritoneum, but is of the greatest utility in preventing extrava- sation of feces. This it does by arresting the peristaltic movement of the intestine, and thus keeping it from change of position. This arrest of the intestinal movements also tends greatly to the closure of the wound. Travers has shown experimentally, and his investigations have been confirmed by subsequent observations on the human subject, that wounds of the intestines are closed by lymph that is thrown out, not only from the contiguous peritoneal smfaces of the part actually injured, but fr’om that of neighboiuing coils ; so that the apertiwe in the gut becomes permanently glued and attached to the structures in its vicinity. In order that this process should take place, it is necessarily of importance that the movements of the bowels be paralysed ; and it is a beautifril provision of natm’e that the very inflammation which closes the wound, arrests that peristaltic action, the continuance of which w'ould interfere with its agglutination to, and closure by, the neighboiuing parts. Until, therefore, the necessary degree of inflammation to effect this is set up, the intestinal movements must be arrested by opium. If extravasation of feculent matter have taken place into the abdomen, an attempt may be made to facilitate its escape externally by removing the stitches and plasters, and placing the patient ou the injiued side, so that this may be most dependent; should the lips of the wound have ah’eady become adherent to one another, they may even be gently and carefuUy separated by the introduction of a probe, and in this way an outlet afforded for the effused matters. When a portion of intestine or of omentum has protruded, it should c replaced as speedily as possible, before strangulation has occurred, which may occasion gangrene. The alidominal muscles should be relaxed by bending c igh upon the abdomen, when the Siugeon may gradually push back the