933 VARIETIES OF N.EVUS. clorircd after ligature of the carotid, by adopting the plan suggested by Gibson of tying the feeding arteries, and making incisions between them down to the bone. The ligature of the carotid has answered best for diseases of this kind in the orbit; of thirteen instances in which the arteiy has been tied for aneiu’ism by anastomosis in this situation, a cure was accomplished in the majority. N.ffiVUS. This disease, imder which are included those various affections termed Mother's Marks, Erectile Tumours, and Vascular Groiuths, constitutes an impor- tant and interesting section of surgical affections. It appears to consist essentially in an excessive development of the vascular tissue of a part, and differs greatly as to nature, cause, and treatment; according as the arterial, the capillary, or the venous elements of the tissue predominate. The predomi- nance of the arterial tissue we have already considered, under the head of Aneurism by Anastomosis; it now remains for us to describe the Capillary and Venous Nrevi. (See also Angioma, p. 758.) Ntevi may, and com- monly do, occur in the healthiest and best-formed children. But they are more apt to occiu’ in those who are the subjects of other congenital mal- formations. Capillary ITaevi appear as slightly elevated but flat spots on the skin, of a bright red or purplish tint, and ha^'ing occasionally granular or papiUated elevations, with some larger vessels ramifying on their surface. They often spread superflcially to a considerable extent; they are usually situated on the face, head, neck, or arms, but occasionally, though more rarely, on the back, the nates, the organs of generation, and the lower extremities. They are, I believe, always congenital, though often at birth very small, not larger than a pin’s head, from which they may spread in the course of a few weeks or months to patches an inch or two in diameter. In many cases no inconvenience results from this disease, except the deformity it entails ; but occasionally, more especially when the growth is at aU prominent, there is a great disposition to unhealthy ulceration. When bleeding occurs from a wound of the ntevoid structure it is usually in a trickling stream, and without any degree of force. Venous or Cavernous Naevi are of a darkpui’ple or reddish colour, usually very prominent, and often forming distinct tumours of considerable size, which may either be smooth and ovoid, or else somewhat lobulated. On'compressing a ^owth of this kind, it subsides to a certain extent, feeling doughy, soft, and inelastic ; and on the removal of the pressm*e Alls again. In some cases, when consolidated by inflammation, or containing cysts, it cannot be lessened in bulk by pressure. These nsevi are usually of about the size of half a walnut, but sometimes much larger. I have removed from the nates and the back some quite as large as oranges. They less frequently occur upon the head and face than the capillary form of the disease ; most of the instances that I have seen have been met with in the lower part of the body, about the nates, back, lower extremities, and organs of generation. Subcutaneous nasvi are occasionally of a mixed character, forming soft, doughy, and compressible tumours, capable of diminution hj pressm-e, on the