670 MOIiTIFIGATION, OR GANGRENE. prevent the absorption of gangTenous and septie matters. If sloughs be not readily separated, the balsam of Porn, either pure or diluted with yolk of egg or A'ory dilute nitric acid, and opiate lotions, are the most useful applications. After the separation of the sloughs, the ulcerated surface must be treated on general principles. The Treatment op Senile Gangrene, presenting some peculiarities, requires a few words to bo specially devoted to it. Constitutional Treatment.—By some Sm'geons this disease has been treated on a strictly antiphlogistic plan, on the supposition that the obstruction of the arteries is caused by the inflammation of their eoats. This, hoivever true it may be in some of the forms of “ spontaneous gangrene ” arising from acute^ob- structiA'e arteritis in young subjects, is certainly an erroneous doctrine in the great majority of cases of dry gangrene oeem-ring as the result of senile ehanges in the A'essels of the lower extremities of aged persons ; and, though inflammation may occasionally afiect the calcified coats of an artery, or the parts supplied by such a diseased vessel, it is always a Ioav form of the disease, and does not bear depletion. Brodie very justly observes, that in these cases the local precursory inflammation terminates in mortification, because the inflamed part cannot obtain the additional supply of blood' that it requires; hence, if blood be abstracted from the system, and the action of the heart weakened, the cause of the disease Avill only be aggraA’ated. But, though depletory measm’es are not admissible, we must guard against running into the opposite extreme, and OA'er- stimulating patients labouring under this disease. Senile gangrene commonly occurs in individuals belonging to the wealthier classes of society, Avho haA*e lived high, taken insufficient exercise, and consequently induced an initable, plethoric, but enfeebled state of system. In many cases the patients are of a gouty habit, and occasionally the inflammation that precedes the development of the gangrene appears to be of this natiu-e. In this condition stimulants and the more powerful tonics are not Avell borne ; they heat the system, accelerate the pulse, and interfere Avith digestion. As Brodie observes, it is of great importance in this disease to attend to the state of the digestive oigans, in older that nutrition may go on, and that blood of a proper quahty may be made. In order to accomplish this, a hght nourishing diet, partly animal and partly vegetable, should be given, and a moderate quantity of Avine, beer, or brandy allowed. The boAvels must be reheved firom time to time by a rhubarb draught ■or simple aperient pill. Mercury depresses the system, and hence it should not be used as an aperient in any form in this disease, imless the state of the liver imperatively demand it. If the digestion become impaired, a stomachic, •as the infusion of cascarilla or the compound infusion of gentian AVith a little ammonia, may be administered. The administration of opium in these cases, as originally recommended by Pott, has received _ the_ sanction of almost every practical Siu’gcon. Brodic’s opinion on this point is especially valiiab e ; he says “ If I am not greatly mistaken, the result of a particular case will very much depend on this—Avhether opium does or docs not agree Awth the pafrent From tAvo to fom- grains of opium may be administered in divided doses 111 the course of twenty-four hours; the quantity being increased as the system becomes accustomed to its effeete. If, howcvei-. it distiivl. the .occasion headache, iiohvithstanding the use of aperients, as mil often happen