WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 651 Foreign Bodies, such as pieces of catheters, tobacco-pipes, pencils, &c., are occasionally met with in the male urinary organs, having been introduced through the urethra. In some cases they arc soon spontaneously expelled. If left ill the bladder they become iucrusted with phosphates, and thus become the nuclei often of large and iiTegularly shaped calculi ; hence it is absolutely necessary to remove them speedily. This may occasionally be done oy fortunately seizing the foreign body mth a small lithotrite or urethral forceps at one end, and withdrawing it in the direction of its long axis. But if this procediu'e be unsuccessful, it must be cut out. This is more safely done by the median than by the lateral operation of cystotomy. Bullets, pieces of clothing, &c, are occasionally lodged in the bladder in gun- shot wounds of that organ. These speedily become incrusted with urinary deposits, and, giving rise to the symptoms of stone in the bladder, require to be removed by cystotomy, an operation that has piroved very successfid in these cases, e’^'idently in consequence of. the healthy condition of the mlnary organs. Dixon has collected from various works the details of fifteen cases, in which balls, that had either primarily entered the bladder, or had foimd their way into this organ by abscess or ulceration after having been lodged in the neighboiu’hood, were extracted by operation. In ten of these cases the result was successful; in the remaining five no record is made of the tennination. AiTow-heads have also been met with in the bladder. There is, in the Ai’my Medical Museum at Washington, a remarkable sp>ecimen of an Indian arrow- head which has formed the nucleus of a large phosphatic calculus. In the female also, various foreign bodies are occasionally passed uj) the urethra, and shpping from the fingers are lost in the bladder.' Hair-pins, bougies, pencils, pen-holders, and a vast variety of similar objects have here been met with. They may usually easily be extracted tlorough the urethra, which should be expanded by a proper dilator. Ruptuhb op the Ureter.—Stanley has related a remarkable case in n 1C the Ureter was ruptui’ed by external violence, and in which the patient recovered ; a very large accumulation of fiuid forming on the injured side of the abdomen, with considerable circumscribed tiunefaction and fluctuation, and u hich required repeated tajiping. In another case, in which the Pelvis of ^ ® nipitured, a similar collection of urine took place within the u c omen, requiring tapping ; as much as six pints being removed at one SI ing.^ On examination after death, Avhich occiuTed in the tenth week fr-om e acci ent, a large cyst was found behind the peritoneum, communicatino- u-ith the pehus of the kidney. WouRus OP THE Groans op Generation in the male may be accidental occasioiiecl by sharp instruments or gun-shot, or may be self-inflicted. When integuments, they present nothing pecuhar and do not uoim- tW except in the great repai-ative the skin nf coverings possess. Even Avhen the Avhole of fn one curimr speedily recovers itself, attempted to cut oT '^eman had unsuccessfully had the wLle offi! ® "" carAung-knife, the organ, Avhich had ol Its integuments torn ofl:’ fr-om the root forwards, quickly