TREATMENT. 337 Suction Avoulcl no doubt be highly advantageous if we could, by this or any other means, remove the air that has gained access to the heart, and thus pre- vent the pulmonic capillai’ies from being still ftu’ther obstructed. But, putting out of consideration the difficulty of finding the woimded vein; the still oreater difficulty of introducing a suitable tube a sufficient distance into it ; the danger of allowing the ingress of afresh quantity of air, whilst opening the sides of the incision in the vein so as to introduce the tube ; and the risk there would be, if the patient recovered from the effects of the accident, of phlebitis supeiwening ; putting aside all these circumstances, which appear to me to be most serious objections, it becomes a question, according to Amussat, who is one of the strongest advocates of this mode of practice, whether, by suction with a syringe, or even by the mouth, any material quantity of air can be removed. He says that, even when the tube is introduced into the right auricle, much more blood than air is constantly withdrawn. These considera- tions, then, should, I think, make the Surgeon hesitate before having recourse to such a hazardous mode of procedure. The next plan, that of circular compression of the chest, however valuable it may be in preventing the ingress of air, can, when it has once been introduced into the veins, have no effect in removing it from the cfrculatory system. We cannot, by any compression that we may employ, squeeze the air out of the heart. But compression may not only be productive of no positive good, but may even occasion much mischief, by embarrassing stiU further the already weakened respiratory movements, and thus interfering with the due aeration of the small quantity of blood that may yet be traversing the lungs. Bleeding from the temporal artery can by no possibihty be productive of any but an injmious effect, by diminishing the already too small quantity of Mood in the arterial system. Opening the right jugular vein may, perhaps, to a certain extent, be serviceable, by unloading the right cavities of the heart, as John Reid has shown it to be capable of doing ; and it has been recom- mended by Cormack on this accoimt. Lastly, tracheotomy cannot be of any particular service, as the arrest of the respiratory function is secondary, and not primary. 1. What, then, are the measmes that a Surgeon should adopt in order to prevent the occurrence of a fatal termination in those cases in which air has been accidentally introduced into the veins during an operation ? Beyond a doubt, the first thing to be done is to prevent the further ingress of air, by compressing the wounded vein with the finger, and, if j)racticable, securing it by a ligature. At all events, compression with the finger should never be omjttcd ; as it has been shovm by Nysten, Amussat, Magendie, and others, that it is only when the air that is introduced exceeds a certain quantity, that death ensues. All further entiy of air having been thus prevented, oiu* next object should be to Jceep) up a good supply of Mood to the hrain and nervous centres, and thus maintain the integrity of their actions. The most efficient means of accomplishing this would probably be the plan recommended by Mercier ; who, believing that death ensues in these cases, as in prolonged syncope, from a deficient supply of blood to the brain, recommends us to employ compression of the aorta and axillaiy arteries, so as to divert the whole of thejfiood that may be circulating in the arterial system to the encephalon. z