VYjEMIA. 724 ceecling injection the time hecame shorter, till at last the potency of the fluid had so far increased that a dog only survived its iTijcctiou seven hours, thus showing “ that it is possible to j)roceed from an inflammation of purely non- infective origin, to the artiflcial induction of a process of the most intense A'irulence.” The exudation-fluids in those experiments were fomid to be full of micrococci, and their potency Avas diminished by putrefaction. This curious increase in the Airulence of the poison as the result of transference from one individual to another is, to say the least, very suggesth'e to the practical Surgeon, and should make him doubly careful, lest by the use of sponges or by his OAvn uiiAA'ashecl hands he should, as it were, repeat the experiment on his patients. 2. The intensity of the effect varies Avith the quantity injected, when the injections are made directly into the blood. If the injections of the more Airulent fluids be made under the skin or into a serous cavity, they excite local inflammations, the fluid products of which possess the same virulent pro- perties, and thus the effect aatII not vary so directly with the amount of fluid injected. 3. The Mode of Injection.—Some fluids, for the reason just stated, act more powerfully Avhen injected into a serous caAuty or into the subcutaneous cellular tissue than AA'hen injected directly into the blood. 4. The Animal Eximlmented on.—Dr. Sanderson has clearly shoAvn that different classes of animals are differently affected by the same poison, and that different indiA'iduals of the same class present very different poAvers of resist- ance. Thus all rodents are pecuharly susceptible to infective processes, while dogs are much less so. Sanderson thinks that the human subject is probably intermediate between the two. That different individuals of the same species are differently affected by the same poison, is a point of gTeat interest. It is doubtless the same Avith the human subject, and in all probability the suscep- tibihty to the effects of these virulent infective poisons varies greatly from time to time in the same individual. This Ave have unfortunately only too often the opportunity of verifying by the observation of dissection-woimds. A student in robust health may usually inoculate himself with impunity fr’om almost any dissection or ^oet mortem examination, but one exhausted A\ith over-work or dissipation wordd under the same circumstances run the greatest risk of blood- poisoning. In the same way, there can be no doubt that the patients admitted into a hospital fr’om dirty homes and fr-om every condition of bad hygiene, are far more liable to suffer from blood-poisoniug than those who have lived in better circumstances. By what channels the poison enters the system is still uncertain ; it may be either by the veins or by the lymphatics. Of one thing, hoAvever, there seems to be no doubt, that healthy granulations under circiuustances of ordmaiy pressure offer a decided barrier to the passage of any of these infective materials into the blood, and it is also just as certain that recent wounds, before then- surfaces are covered with organising lymph or granulations, offer them a ready entrance. In fact, tha experiment of injection of decomposing matter into the lymphatics is often unintentionally perfoimed by the Surgeon, wound of any size under ordinary dressing be closed too tightly, an no mn age be provided for the necessary serous discharge, it will be lomid that after