LOG A L TEE A TMEXT. snbsfcaiico of a limb, iiTigatiou with cold water should be employed (Fig. 69). It it be intended that the etfect of the cold shall penetrate deejjly, as in inflamma- tions ot joints, ot the head, spine, or chest, pounded ice may be applied. The ice is best applied by being placed in a bladder, gut, or a Mackintosh bag, partially filled. Esmarch has especially pointed out the gTcat advantage of using an India-rubber bag, which always remains dry, and from the use of which no danger from fi'ost-bite is to be apprehended, as may occin’ from the long-continued use of cold and wet appheations. With the \iew of removin<>- the congestion remaining after inflammation, cold douching or sponging is most etflcjicious. ° Warmth and moisture conjoined ai-e of the utmost service in the treatment of inflammation dining the height of that process—dm-ing that period when cold applications are not admissible. By these means, tension is relaxed, effusion is fiivoined, and the over-distended vessels are relieved. If continued for too long a time, however, these means favoin congestion, and sodden the parts. Marm applications are especially serviceable in aU cases of inflammation attended by much pain, more particularly if this occin from tension ; and they are espeeially useful when suppuration is threatening, or has come on, and 511 many cases where there is a tendency to slough. When abscess threatens, or the sinfiice is broken, nothing affords so much relief as a well-made poultice, either of liuseed-meal or of bread; this, made soft and smooth, and not spread too thickly on the cloth containing it, should t>e applied as hot as the patient can bear it. Wcder^es^mc,, consisting of double lint, well soaked in tepid water, and iiJb7^ u 8'^^tfca-percha, extending from half an inch to an the advantageously substituted for a poultice, if the soie be small, and the inflammation limited. FomtiMlms ol warm water, or of decoction of poppy and camomile winmg out of these liquids, or of ba»s applied hot are v ™ted in the decoction, squeezed ont, and ild Lee shrid S ™ inflammations. The flannels r snteM ute for r Spongio-piline may be used as nnSen Mentations, in cases in which the smfacc is infl*enc?°ov« Zlif TT”’' controlling sotonLl w)h T “ , Of on aente character. The extract rermi-rna fra 1 I congestion augmented. Hence tho nm-f K 2