TREATMENT OF ASTHENIC INFLAMMATION. 133 without reference to the type of the constitutional disturbance accompanying- them, Avc shall miserably err in a large proportion of the cases. But if, payin'^ but little heed to the local affection, except so far as its characters indicate the general type of the disease, we make the constitution of the patient our guide, and deplete or stimulate accordingly, even thoiTgh we treat two patients with the same disease, so fixr as name is cojicerned, on totally opposite plans, we shall not act inconsistently, but in strict conformity wdth the natural conditiou of the patient and of his disease. We must be guided in the means that we adopt entirely by the condition of the patient, the state of the tongue and pulse, and the general character of the symptoms. If these from the first partake of the asthenic or irritative type, we camiot at any period have recoiu-sc to the treatment that has been recom- mended in sthenic inflammation. If the disease commence in an active form, the fever progressively assuming a lower and lower character, merging into the asthenic and irritatfr-e types, so must Ave gradually modify the natm-e of oiu* general treatment. This, hoAvever, is ahvays a dehcate procedure, requiring much caution. Though the inflammatory fever may at first assume the sthenic form, if there be reason to beheve, fr'om the broken constitution of the patient, or fr-om the congestive or passive character of the local inflammation, that the •constitutional symptoms AAdU not long continue of this type, we must be extremely cautious hoAV Ave lower the patient by active depletion; for, however high the fever may at fii'st run (and in these cases there is often febrile distinb- •ance of a A'cry actiAC character for the first few days), the disease speedily expends its force and rapidly subsides into a low form. In cases of this kind, AAfrich are of A'ery conmion occuiTence in London practice, more particularly in hospitals, AAC should never bleed, but content oinselves, after clearing out the boAAcls, with keeping the patient quiet on a moderately Ioav diet, and adminis- tering diaphoretic salines. As the symptoms gTadually merge into the typhoid type, the pulse increasing in frequency, but diminishing in power, the tongue becoming diy and dark, and the other symptoms of asthenia beginning to shoAv themseh-es, we must beg-in to give some stimulant in combination AAuth the •salines. The carbonate of ammonia in five or ten grain doses, or even more, may be given with bark, or in an effervescent form Avith fifteen grains of the bicarbonate of potash and a sufficient quantity of citric acid, every third or fourth hour. The nourishment must be increased ; and wine or alcoholic •stimulants must be conjoined Avith it, in proportion as the symptoms of debility lecome ruoie and more marked. In effecting this change, hoAA'CA’er, aa'c must be careM not to run into the eiTor of overstimulating our patient; this may le aA OK ed by observing the influence exercised on the pulse and tongue by the change ni treatment. fi ■ f ^ cases, this stimulating plan is not well borne during the setting in of an inflammation, especially if there be S‘‘s lie nutation a.nd sickness ; but Avheu the more active symptoms shoAV a cn ency to subside, when the boAvels have been avcU cleared out, and the In-fu f-ssixmc a slight degTce of moisture, then it may be resorted to with every probability of success. ^ Jc/aLhenh liappens that the symptoms so rapidly sink into chaiactei,or from the very first assiune it, that the only treatment