BANDAGES AND SPLINTS. 3^5 of the roller should be brought above the elbow. This point of practice I con- sider most important, as the application of a bandage to the immediate seat of fracture not only causes gveat pain and disturbance of the limb, but danger of .ranmene. When once a fractured limb has been “put up,” the less it is dis- tiu-bed the better. No good can possibly come, but a great deal of pain must necessai-ily result to the patient, from meddling with it. The Surgeon should always bear in mind that, in the treatment of a fractured bone, he can do absolutely notliing to promote its union, beyond placing it in a good and easy position. Natiu’e—the natimal reparative action of the body solders the bone together: and the less the Surgeon interferes ivith the natural processes of repair, the more satisfactorily Avill imion be accomplished. But it is requisite to examine the limb from time to time during the treatment, and especially about the second or third iveek, Avhen union is commencing, in order, if neces- sary, to coirect displacement. In the earlier stages, supervision is necessary lest the bandage be too tight; and, if the patient complain of any pain or numbness, or if the extreme part look blue and feel cold, the bandage must be immediately removed ; for, though the apparatus have not been applied tightly, sweUing of the limb may come on fr’om various causes, to such an extent as to produce strangulation and consequent gangrene of it, as I have seen happen in at least three instances, the hmb requiring amputation in each case (Fig. 145). It is remarkable, that the whole of a limb will faU into a state of gangrene hi these cfrciimstances, with but little pain, and often with very shght constitutional distmhance, the parts having their sensibility deadened by the gradual conges- tion and infiltration of the tissues. When such an unfortunate accident happens, recourse must be had to immediate amputation. Before applying the apparatus in a case of fr’actme, aud as often as it is taken off, it is a good plan to sponge the limb with warm soap and water, which prevents the itching that otherwise ocem-s and is sometimes very troublesome. The Splints that are used in cases of fracture are of various kinds. Tin, wood, leather, and gutta-percha, are the materials usually employed. For some kinds of fr-actiire, special, and often very compheated apparatus, is very generally used; but the Sm’geoii should never confine himself to one material, or one exclusive mode of treating these injuries, as in different cases special adAmitages may be obtained from different kinds of splints. Wood and tin are principally employed in the loiver extremity, ivhere great strength is required to counteract the weight of the limb and the action of its muscles ; and care must be taken to pad very thoroughly splints made of these materials. Leather, gutta-percha, aud pasteboard, are more commonly useful in fractures of the upper extremity, tl^ough they may not unfrequently be employed with advantage in those of the lower limbs. In applying them, a pattern should first be cut out in brown paper, of the proper size and shape; the material must then be softened by being well soaked in hot water, and moulded on to the part Avhilst soft: as soon as it has taken the proper shape, it should, if leather or gutta-percha be used, be hardened by being plunged into cold vinegar and water ; the pasteboai-d must be alloAved to diy of itself. Its edges may then be feathered and the corners rounded, and its interior lined Avith wash-leather or lint. These splints liaA’e the advantage of gi’eat durability, cleanliness, and lightness. The material of Avhich the sjDlint IS composed is of loss consequence than its mode of application. There are tAvo