I2I UFFUSIONS. 4. [nflaraniation may appear in a distant part in consequence of metastasis, as has been already stated. EFii’ECTS OF IxFLAJiMATiON.—111 Speaking of the local symptoms of inflam- mation, reference was made to the occun-ence of effusions of various kinds, and of modifications in the secrefions of the part affected. These effects must now he examined in greater detail. Effusions are not invariably due to inflammation. Venous congestion will iwoduce an excessive transudation of fluid of a more or less watery character,, constituting oedema in the areolar tissue, and drojisij in serous or synoA'ial cavities. Thus, if the veins of the leg be compressed, oedema of the foot will result; if those of the Ih'er be obstructed, ascites will follow. Congestion of the renal veins produces albuminuria. If the jiressure on the vessels be great, the capillaries may be distended till they rupture, giving rise to effusion of blood, as in some forms of epistaxis and hmmaturia. The propter effusions of inflammation are—1. Blood; 2. Liqiior Sangumis ,- 3. Serum. These effusions are in a great measine mechanical, depiending on the dynamic state of the vessels, though doubtless in many instances modified by other causes of a mtal character. Fibrine, or lympth, though usually spiokeii of as an inflammatory efihsion, differs remarkably in its vital characters from the rest, and will be considered elsewhere. The fr’equency vdth which one or other form of effusion occurs in different tissues, or organs, varies gxeatly. Paget observes, “ each tissue has its proper mode and products of inflammation ; ” hence p3articular kinds of eifusions are very rare in some, although of common occiuTence in other p>arts. 1. Effusion of Blood often occurs in small quantity, tinging the other prodiTcts of inflammation. When this is the case, the coloming matter is. broken up and dissolved, a condition indicative of a low state of the constitutional powers. In other cases, the hmmorrhage may be abundant, the character of the blood being but little changed. This effusion is depjendent uj3on overdistension of the vessels, vdth softening of the tissues, gning rise to rupture of the caj)illaries. Haemorrhage of this kind most frequently occurs, fr’om mucous surfaces, which readily bleed when inflamed. It may also happen fr’orn the rupture of new vessels in fr’eshly depeosited lympjh ; or it may arise from migTation of the red coiqDuscles through the walls of the capflllaries. ' 2. Effusion of Liquor Sanguinis.—In this case, the fluid pearts of the blood transude, tearing the coiqDuscles behind. It is occasionally met with in so-called serous effusions, into the tunica vaginalis for instance ; so also the ^'lum contained in the blel) of a blister is really liquor sanguinis ; and Paget as found that in this there is most fibrine when there is most strength of constitirtion. This fluid is not uncommonly met with in the subcutaneous and submucous areolar tissues ; about the glottis, and in the scrotum, for instance, giring rise to a gelatinous semi-transp^arent swelling of the p^art. In t lose cases,^ the more fluid portions are sometimes absorbed, leaving the fibrine, tins constituting the condition termed solid mlema. The fibrine in this e usion often does not coagulate so long as it is retained in the body but ^'hen it IS removed, solidification ensues. Serous or Albuminous Effusions are veiy common in slight or subacute