310 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HuEMORRIIAGE. iilicady been applied above and below the seat of wound, the same treatment must be adopted as in those cases in which the bleeding takes place from the applieation of the ligature to the continuity of the vessel. Ganqreniii I'OLijOWiNGr LiGATURK.—After the ligature of the main artery of a limb, the collateral circulation is, under all ordinary circumstances, sufficient to maintain the vitality of the part supphed by the deligated vessel. In some cases, howc'S'cr, it happens that the condition of the circulation in the parts below the ligatm’e is not compatible with their life. Causes.—The causes influencing the occurrence of gangTene in this way are the Age of the Patient, the Seat of the Operation, and the various Conditions in which the Limb may afterwards be placed. The influence of age is not, however, so marked as might ct, loriori be supposed ; for, although there can be no doubt that there is a less accommo- dating power in the arterial system to varying quantities of blood at an advanced period of life, and that there would be gveater difliciflty in main- taining the vitahty of the hmb after hgatiu’e of the artery iir a man of sixty than in one of twenty-five ; yet I And that, of thirty cases in which gangrene of the lower extremity followed the ligature either of the external ihac or femoral arteries, the average age of the patient was thirty-five years, as nearly as possible the mean age at which these operations, according to Norris’s Tables, are generally performed. Of these cases of gangrene two occurred in persons under twenty years of age, eleven between Lventy and thirty, eight between thirty and forty, and nine above forty. The seat of the oj^eration influences greatly the liability tb gangrene, which is much more frequent after the ligature of the arteries in the lower than in the upper extremity. Besides these predisposing causes, gangrene after ligatm’e may be direetly occasioned by a deficient sup'plg of arterial Mood. In some cases this may arise from the collateral vessels being imable, in consequence of the rigidity of their coats, to accommodate themselves to the increased quantity of blbod Avhich they are required to transmit ; or they may be compressed in such a way by extraA’asation as to be materially lessened in their capacity. In other instances again, the existence of cardiac disease may interfere with the proper supply of blood to the part. Great loss of Mood, either in consequence of secondary hemorrhage, or in any other way, before or after the appheation of the hgatiu’c, is often foUoAved by gangTene, and is almost certain to be attended by this result if a second hgatiu’c haA’e been apphed to a higher point in the lower extremity. That a diminution in the quantity of blood circulating in the system may, imder the most favour- able circumstances, become a cause of gangTene after the ligatiu-e of the artei-y, is illustrated by the statement of Hodgson that, soon after the introduction of the Hunterian operation into Paris, it Avas the custom to employ repeated venesection in the cases operated on ; the consequence of Avhich was, that mortification Avas of frequent occru’rence. A more common cause of gangTene is the difficulty experienced Mj the venous Moocl in its return from the liml). This difficulty ahvays exists eAcn a\ enno mechanical obstacie impedes the return, being dejAendent on the aa ant o a proper vis d tergo to di’iA'e on the blood. The propulsive poAver of the eai ,