HEALING BY SCABBING. 173 As may readily be supposed, it is not often in sm-gical practice that such a simple and direct result can be obtained ; though, in- some of the plastic opera- tions about the fece, we succeed in securing it. It is especially in childipn and young people, in whom the constitution is pime and healthy, that this kind of union is to be obtained, and after operations for the cure of deformities. as hare-lip or cleft palate, rather than in those for the removal of disease. After some of the larger operations, in adults even, this kind of miion may exceptionally take place. Paget has recorded a case of amjmtation of the breast, in which the flaps contracted immediate and direct union with the sub- jacent parts ; and, on the patient dying of erysipelas at the end of three weeks, the imion was so perfect that it was impossible to discover by microscopic examination that any inflammation had existed, or exudation-matter had been pomed out. In some flap operations, the Sm-geon may succeed in seeming union by this means. Thus, in amputations of the thigh and arm, we occa- sionally find nearly the whole, or a considerable portion, of the flaps united together at the expiration of about eight-and-forty horns. Umiogeneity of Structure is of essential importance in seeming this kind of imion. It cannot take place, for instance, between a muscular flap and the cut end of a bone. But it takes place here between soft parts cori’esponding in structme ; and the more homogeneous these are, the more likely is direct union to ocem. Hence it is easier to seciue it in wounds of the face ; com- posed as this region is of integumental structiue, and ceUulo-adipose and muscular tissues, nearly uniformly blended. The advantages gained by this mode of imion are, absence of inflammatoiy action, conservation of the vital force, and immediate and permanent closm’e of the cavity of the ivound, all of which render the patient less liable to some of the after-consequences that attend the heahng of open woiuids. Fiuther, there is no development of cicatricial tissue, and consequently no danger of subsequent contraction and deformity. 2. Healing by Scabbing or Incrustation consists in the duect adhesion of the lower parts and sides of a wound under a crust of dried blood, scrum, hair, &c., which fonns an au-tight covering. The absence of inflammation is necessary for heahng by scabbing ; for, if any effusion occiu, the crust will be loosened, air will be admitted to the wound, and all chance of immediate union destroyed. Hence this kiiul of union is extremely rare in man, except in small and supei-ficial injuries, owing to the readiness with which inflammation is set up, but it is connnon in the lower animals. This natmul process is sometimes mutated by the Surgeon when he closes a small pmictured external wound, mich as that of a compound fractiue, ivith a piece of lint dipped in blood" CO odion, stjqrtic colloid, fiiars’ balsam, &c., under which union takes place. e essential point in obtaining union by scabbing is to secure the absence ^ air from the ivound, as well as of any foreign body that may give rise bv m-itation, to inflammatoiy action. ’ ^ Analogous to healing hjscahUiuj is the process of ciuc in subcutaneous w^ounds ^m dislocations, simple fi-actures, and other similar injuries, and also in the arious operations of tenotomy. In these cases repair takes place without anvin- amraation, even though this be excited, as it sometimes is, by theiniury • the para ivc material, “ nucleated blastema,” not being an inflammatory product