497 THE ILIO-FEMORAL LIGAMENT. lio-amentum teres is ruptured iii most cases, but not necessarily m ad Dupuy- trcn and S6dillot both mention cases of dislocation on the dorsum ihi m which this li*vament escaped without ruptm-e. In the dislocation on the dorsum ilii. Sir \ "’cooper found the gemelli, obturatores, and cpiadratus completely tom across', and the pectineus slightly torn. In the dislocation into the sciatic notch Billard d’Angers found the gluteus maximus and medius torn, and toe <.emelli riiptm-ed. Syme found the gluteus maximus extensively torn, -with the head of the bone imbedded in it; the gluteus minimus, the pynformis, and the gemellus superior lacerated; and the head of the femm- lying upon the o-cmelli and the great sciatic nerve. In the displacement on the obtimator foramen, the pectineus and adductor brc^^s are torn. In the dislocation on the pubic bone, the extent of injmy is more uncertain. In one case related by Sir A. Cooper, Poiipart’s ligament was torn up, and in another the pectineus and adductors were torn ; but whether this was done by the dislocation or by the direct injiuy that occasioned it, is uncertain. Dr. MacCarthy has described the appearances found on dissection in two cases of dislocation of the femim on to the dorsum ilii. In one, the deeper fibres of the gluteus maa- miis had been torn by the head of the bone, which was found lying 'with its anterior part on the brim of the acetabulum, with the lowermost fibres of the gluteus minimus interposed, and the dimple for the ligamentum teres directed backwards and inwards. The posterior fibres of the gluteus medius were also torn, and the pyriformis, obturator internus, and gemelli muscles had been completely torn from their pelvic attachments. The quadratus femoris was uninjiu’ed. The capsule had given way posteriorly; in front and above it was intact. Although some fibres of the ligamentum teres had been ruptured, the ligament still resisted aU attempts to break it. The ilio-femoral and pubo-femoral bands 'were uninjined, notwithstanding that the acetabulum had separated into its three component parts, the fractiu’e transversing also the iho-pectineal eminence. The lowermost fibres of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, and some fibres of the sar- torius, psoas magnus, and iliacus internus muscles were also ruptmed. In the second case, the gluteus maximus was not torn, but the bmsa between it and the vastus externus was seen to be ruptm-ed and filled with blood. The sheath of the great sciatic nerve was also distended with blood, and the nerve-fibres W'ere separated from one another. The posterior fibres of the gluteus minimus muscle were tom across, and the areolar tissue beneath that muscle filled with blood. The quadratus femoris muscle was torn completely in two, and the uppermost fibres of the adductor magnus, and some fibres of the gemelli and obtm’ator internus muscles, were lacerated. The capsule was perfect in front and above, but torn at the most posterior part. The ligamentum teres had been torn off’ close to the femoral attachment. The importance of the ilio-femoral ligament in the mechanism of disloca- tion of the hip-joint, has been fully recognised by various Surgeons. Gunn of Chicago, Busch, Von Pitha, and, more recently and fully, Bigelow^ have insisted on an exact knowledge of this important ligament as constituting the basis of a correct understanding of the mechanism, not only of the various forms of dis- location of the hip, but also of the proper mode to be adopted for their reduc- tion. Bigelow, to whom we are especially indebted for a most lucid exposition VOL. I. K K