CIliCUMSCllIBED T1UU2IATIG ANEUBISM. 3^5 tliis. Hiuin<>' ascertained that he controls the vessel thoronghly by the pres- sure of his l5't index and middle fingers, he may proceed to slit open the wound in the integuments, and clear the clots and blood thoroughly out of the aneurismal timiour. Second Stage.—The Siu'gcon will now have ^exposed the part ot the aneurismal cavity. The artery must next be cleared for the application of the ligature. If the artery above be commanded by pressure, and there be no immediate danger of htemorrhagc, this may best be done by passing a steel probe, or, what is better, a fuU-sized bougie, or a sound into the open woimd in the artery so as to distend the vessel, dissecting down on each side of this through the posterior wall of the sac, and then passing the ligature in the usual way. But if the vessel be so near the centre of the circidation that it cannot be efficiently commanded, then the difficulties become far greater, for the Siu’geon must on no account remove his finger for an instant from the open wound ; but, keeping it firmly arrd securely pressed into this, he must errdeavom, by scratchirrg through the tissues above it, to expose the artery sirfficierrtly to make a dip with the rreedle around it, and thus to secure it. This part of the operation is by far the most difficidt in such cases, on account of the infiltration of the parts arrd the thickerring of the structures preventing the artery fi'om being readily distirrgirished and easily cleared. The application of a ligatrrre to the distal errd of the vessel, if it be com- pletely divided, is especially difficult. Shordd it not be practicable, the appli- cation of the actual cautery, or pressnre by means of a sponge-tent or graduated compress, wall be fourrd the best means of arresting the haemonffiage. CiEcmiscEiBED Teaumatic Aneueism differs entirely from the diffused in its pathology and treatment, inasmuch as it possesses a distinct sac. There are two varieties of this form of aneiu’ism. ]. In the first variety, a pmrctiu’e is made irr arr artery, or the vessel is ruptirred subcutaneously, as perhaps hr the reductiorr of an old dislocation; blood is extravasated irrto the adjoirrirrg tissues ; and, if there be an external apertru’e, this cicatrises. The blood that is extravasated becomes surrormded and limited by a dense layer of plastic matter, forming a distirrct circumscribed sac, which is soon hrred by layers of fibrine deposited fi'om the blood that jrasses through it. This tumour, usually of moderate size, arrd of tolerably firm corrsisterrcc, pirlsates syrrchrorrously with the beat of the heart, and has a distinct bruit, both of which cease when the artery leading to it is compressed. This form of circiunscribed traumatic arreirrism most commonly occrrrs from irunctured womrds of small arteries, as the temporal, plarrtar, palmar, radial, and ulnar. The Treatment to be adopted deperrds upon the size and sitrratiorr of the artery rvith which the tumoru is corrrrected. If the artery be small, and so situated that it can be opened without much sirbsequerrt irrconveirierrce to the patient, as on the temple or irr the fore-arm, it should be laid open, the coagula turTred out, arrd the vessel ligatured above arrd below the wourrd irr it. If the tumour be so situated, as in the pahn, that it Avould be difficidt arrd hazardous to the integr'ity of the patient’s hand to lay it open, the Hunterian operation for aneurism should be performed, asrvas successfully done hr a case (Fig. 131) in Avhich the brachial rvas ligatured for arr aneru-ism of this kind in the ball of