2lS INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. I l)y whicli it entered, but the point slioulcl be pushed on so as to emerge through the skin, the shank then di^•ided by pliers, and the barbed end drawn out The Surgeon is sometimes called upon to arrest the bleeding from the punctured woiuid inflicted by the hecit. Pressiu’c mth a piece of fluffy lint for five or ten minutes usually suffices, or the bite may be touched with a point of nitrate of silver ; but, if this do not arrest the bleeding, a needle should be passed across the bite, and a silk thi’cad wound roimd it. The needle may be removed in twenty-four hours. Arrow-Wounds occasionally fall mrder the observation of the military or colonial Sm-geon as the result of injuries received in conflict ^vith barbarous Fig. S2.—Iiidiau Arrow penetrating temporal bone. Medical Department, United States Anny. races. They differ only in one essential respect from penetrating pimctm'ed wounds received by knife-stabs and sword-thrusts, viz., that the aiTOWor its head Avill remain impacted in the tissues it has penetrated. The force "with which an arrow may be shot is well illustrated in the accompanying figimes (82, 83) taken from preparations in the Army Museum at Washington. The arrow shot from the bow of a North American Indian has becnknoivn to traverse the body of a buffalo and penetrate the under siuface of its scapula, as iUustiated by a preparation in the Museum at Washington. The extraction of an arroiv is usually attended by little difficulty. But i Fig S3.—BiifTalo Rib ]iieroed by Iiidiim Ari-ow. (U. S. Anny Med. Dep.) i Pi„. £4.—Bill's Smive fov Extraetion of Arrow Heads. barbed, or if the shaft becomes detached from the head, then special precautions have to be taken. With the wew of effecting safely its removal, the ‘ snares figured (Pig. 84) have been devised. In the event ot a large blood-re'ssc, arteiT, or vein being wounded in the head, thorax, or abdomen penetrated by the aiTOW, no special treatment is required beyond that which relates to tb extraction of the missile.