FRACTURES. 376 arteries of the foot; 3. Should pulsation not have returned within two or three days, should gangrene be imminent, or actually liave set in, or should the artery have been ligatured, and mortification have ensued, to ampiitate high in the thigh without farther delay. It will thus be seen that, in a diffused traumatic aneurism complicating a fracture of the bones of the lower extremity, the ordinary treatment of diffused traumatic aneurism must be departed from, for these reasons: 1. That, owing to the great displaceinent of parts and laceration of soft structures consequent on the fracture, it would be almost impossible to find the injured vessel; and, 2. That, if it were found, the opening up of the limb would leave a large ragged wound communicating widely with the broken bones, and leading to the wmrst foim of compound fracture, with an amount of disorganisation in the limb that could scarcely be recovered from. However extensively a bone may be comminuted, good imion will take place provided the fracture be simple ; that is, provided no w^otind exist in the limb by which air may gain admission to the fracture or to the soft parts implicated in it. I have seen the lower end of the femur crushed, as if by a sledge-hammer, into a multitude of fragments; and yet excellent union resulted, the fracture being simple, without even a breach of integument. In such a case as this, if there had been the smallest Avomid to admit air into the hmb, suppurative action of the most extensive and destructive character would undoubtedly have set in, and the patient’s limb at least, if not his life, would have been lost. It is impossible to overestimate the advantage of an injiuy of this kind being subcutaneous. A serious complication of simple fractiues consists in their Implicating a Joint. The fracture may extend into a neighbouring articulation, and thus give rise to considerable inflammatory action ; in strumous subjects this may lead to ultimate disorganisation of the articulation, requiring excision, w^hich I have several times had occasion to perform in these cases. But in healthy individuals a large articular surface may be traversed by lines of fractiue in several directions, without material inconvenience resulting. This we see in impnntp.fl fractiues of the condyles of the femur or of the lower end of the radius. In several instances of this kind in which I have examined the limb after death, no sign of disease of the part has been manifested beyond a moderate amount of injection of the ligaments; the fractrued incrusting cartilage uniting by plastic matter, and the synovia being clear and free from inflamma- tory exudation. But, although union of fractures extending into articulations takes place readily enough, it cannot be expected that the patient wnU recover as mobile a joint as if the fracture had merely traversed the shaft. In fact, m the majority of these cases, the patient will be left with a joint that is weak, stiff, and painful: and, if in the lower extremity, the limb may be unable to support the weight of the body for some considerable time Possibly also, in many of these instances, an impaired joint wiU be left tlnnugh Me, as the necessaiy and luiavoidable result of the injury, though not un -e- quently unjustly attributed to negligence and want ot skill on the part of the " Tflie occuiTence of Bislocation at the same time as the fracture, and from the same violence that occasions this, often causes great c i cu y to e