63S IXJIJRJES OF THE ABDOMEN AND FELVJS. CHAPTER XXIX. INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVI8. INJUBIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND ABDOMINAL VISCERA. Injuries of the abdomen occiu- frequently. They may be dhided into Contusion of the Abdomen, with or without Euptme of Internal Organs; Non-penetrating Woimds ; and Penetrating Wounds, either imcomplicated, or conjoined with Injmy or Protrusion of some of the Organs contained in this cavity. Contusions of the Abdominal Walls from blows or kicks usually ter- minate without serious inconvenience, but in some cases are followed by very acute peritonitis, which may prove fatal. In other cases, the abdominal muscles may be ruptm-ed, although the skin may remain unbroken. A man was admitted under my care into the Hospital, having received a blow from the buffer of a railway carriage upon his abdomen. He complained of great pain at one spot ; and, on examination after death, we found the rectus muscle torn across vdthout injmy either to the integu- ments or the peritoneum. If the patient live, an injury of this kind is apt to be followed by atrophy of the muscular substance, and perhaps by the occur- rence of a ventral hernia at a later period. Occasionally the contusion is followed by abscess in the abdominal wall, which has a tendency to extend widely between the muscular planes. The abscesses should be opened early, lest they burst into the peritoneal cavity and occasion fatal inflammation. Buffer-Accidents.—A contusion of the abdomen is often associated with Ilupture of some of the Viscera. In military practice these internal injm-ies are met with in the so-called wind-contusions ; ” in civil practice they commonly result from blows, kicks, the passage of a cart-wheel over the abdomen, or the squeeze of the body between the bufters of two railway carriages! These “ Buffer-accidents ” are of common occurrence in hospital practice, resulting usuaily from the carelessness of railway guards and portem, who, trying to pass between carriages in motion, are caught and squeezed between the buffers. In these cases the most fearful internal injunes occur, often Avithout any external rvound. A man was admitted under iny care into University College Hospital, in whom the liver, stomach, spleen, and kidneys, were crushed and torn ; the heart was bruised, being ecchymoscd on its sur- face and one of the lungs was lacerated, without any rupture or liruisc ot t re skill or fracture of the ribs. In this way any of the abdommal organs may be torn or contused, the particular one injiu'cd depending on the situation ot the blow. The organ that is most frequently crushed 111 this way is the liver.