909 TREATMENT OF TETANUS. was found on the intcnial plantar neiwe, where it had been wounded by the nail. In a man who died of acute tetanus a week after rccei'vdng a lacerated wound of the dorsum of the foot, the digital nerves were found to be sloughy, and evidences of inflammatory in-itation extended some distance up the musculo- cutaneous nerve. In another case under my care, in which tetanus resulted from a bruise of the back, and terminated in death, the injured nerve (a dorsal branch) was found lying bare and reddened in the wound ; and, on tracing it up to the spinal cord, its sheath was found to be much injured, ecchymosed, and with a large vessel imnniug dovm it. In another instance, in which tetanus followed a wound of the -wrist, the external cutaneous nerve was found in a similar inflamed state. The Pathological Conditions found in the Spinal Cord in cases of tetanus have been studied by Kokitansky, Lockhart Clarke, Dickinson, and Allbutt. Rokitansky described them as consisting chiefly of a proliferous development of connective tissue, composed of young cells. Billroth doubts the coiTectness of this observation ; and many competent observers have failed to discover anything more positive than ecchymosed jDatches and interspaces in the spinal medulla. Lockhart Clarke has in at least six cases observed lesions of structure in the spinal cord, consisting of disintegration and soften- ing of a portion of the gi-ey substance of the cord, which appeared in certain parts to be in a state of solution. The fluid thus formed was in some parts gi-anular, holding in suspension the fragments and particles of the disintegrated tissue, but in many places it was perfectly pellucid. He considers this due to hypertemia of the cord, accompanied by exudation and disintegration. Dickin- son has described intense hypertemia vdth a structureless exudation poured out around the vessels in many parts of the grey matter, breaking do-wn the siUTounding tissue. He also observed some hemorrhages in the white columns. These observations have been confirmed by Clifibrd Allbutt, who found in four cords which he examined that the tissues were intensely congested, and suiTounded by spaces contaim'ng a structureless exudation, especially in the grey matter. The absence of any constant and distinct pathological lesion has led to the hypothesis of tetanus being dependent primax-ily on blood- poisoning, and not on a lesion of the nerve-centres. Bilh’oth, who inclines to this idea, admits that it is a mere hypothesis. This theory of blood-poisonino- being the primary cause of tetanus is based on the following line of argumenL A septic agent, capable of producing con-vulsive movements when absorbed into the blood—of acting, in fact, like strychnia—may be supposed to be generated in certain circumstances, whether of individual predisposition or of epidemic constitution, in the wound or at the seat of injury. We have the analogy of hydrophobia in support of the idea that, in certain circumstances, such an agent may be generated in the system, rendering the fluids blood and saliva—poisonous to others, and capable of developino- a con vulsive disease in the animal afi’ected. We have, however, no evidence as yet that the blood or any one of the secretions of a tetanic patient is capable when inoculated, of producing a similar disease in a healthy animal. There is one objection to this theory which appears to me too serious to be overlooked : viz., that tetanus has been an-ested, if not cured, by the division ot the principal nervous trank leading from the seat of iujmy, as the posterior