VENEREAL BI8EAEEH. S74 botli of the parents having constitutional syphilis ; hut, if they he put under j)iopei tieatnient hy a mercurial course, and the disease he thus eradicated lioin the system, the o\’um will at the next pregnancy probably reach its full <le^'elopment. Gestation may go its full time, and the fcctus he horn with syphilitic cachexy and local manifestations of the disease fully developed upon it. More frecpiently, however, the child, although cachectic and sickly looking, is brought into the world without any syphilitic appearances ; hut in the course of a few weeks, usually from the third to the eighth, these declare themselves. Constitutional syphilis of a congenital nature may manifest itself even at the adult age. This, though rare, has fallen under my observation in a young woman aged seventeen who was covered Avith marked syphilitic psoriasis, Avith Avhich she had been affected for seAmal years. The mother told me that, shortly after birth, evidences of infantile syphilis had appeared; that these had yielded to treatment, but that, as the period of puberty approached, the psoriasis, which was truly of a sj^Dhilitic nature, had shoAra itself. In other cases, again, it is not impossible that the syphilitic taint may manifest itself in a different way from that which has just been alluded to ; that no local manifestation may occiu’, but that an impaired and depraved state of constitution and of nutritiA^e actiA’ity may be inherited, Avhich, in after-life, o'iA'cs rise to some of the various forms of scrofula or of other constitutional disease, dependent upon an enfeebled state of system, or a diminution, as it were, of the general vitality. Mode of Communication.—The mode of communication of syphilis to the ovum, or to the in utero foetus, is an investigation that has much occupied the attention of Surgeons, and is of considerable practical interest. It has been considered probable, that the poison may be communicated to the embryo in at least foim ways : viz., 1, the father may have a constitutional taint of which he has been imperfectly cured, and, Avithout communicating any syphilitic disease to his AAufe, may be the parent of an offspring that exhibits indications of being infected ; or, 2, the mother, haAung a similar constitutional disease, may in like manner taint her own offspring ; or, 3, the diseased child may be born of parents, both of whom are constitutionally infected ; or, 4, the mother may become preguiant with a healthy embryo, but, afterwards, contracting syphilis, may transmit it to her offspring. There are very good reasons for believing that the disease does not pass from the father to the child Avithout also implicating the mother. In the first place, this faculty is shared by no other contagious disease. No father can give his offspring small-pox, though the mother fi’equently communicates that disease to her foetus. In the next place, it is well known, as Colles of Dublin long ago pointed out, that a congenitally syphilitic child never locally infects its mother, though it will transmit its disease readily to a Avet-nurse, Avhose breast it sucks ; this apparent exemption of the mother being due to the fact that she has been akeady infected. Again, the symptoms of syphilis are often exceedingly mild in Avomen, and constantly overlooked. Hence, in t le piescn state of our knoAvledge, it is safer to conclude that the father infects the mother, and that she transmits her disease to the offspring. Ricord, however, states that a mother, pregnant with a syiihihtic foetus, the offspring of a father labouring under constitutional disease, can be infected