348 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. attempts at bony union will have been set np between the opposite exposed osseous siu’faces. In the Treatment of Wounded Joints, the fii’st point to be determined must be whether amputation or resection should be performed, or an attempt made to save the injured joint. If the joint be small, and the disorgam'sation of bones or soft parts not very great, there can be no doubt that we ought to attempt, and shall usually be able, to save it. But if it be of one of the larger ai’ticulations, the line of practice must be determined by the extent of the injmy, and the age and constitution of the patient. If the wound be but small and clean cut, no Surgeon would be justified in having recom*se to immediate amputation, even though it be the knee that is injm’ed. But if the joint have been extensively laid open, mth much contusion and laceration, com- plicated perhaps mth dislocation, or with fracture and splintering of the bones, the case is different. In these unfavoiu’able circumstances, however, in the upper extremity, and even in the ankle, the limb may not unfrequently be saved. If the bones be comminuted, the removal of spfinters and resection of the articular ends may advantageously be practised in many cases, more par- ticularly if the patient be young and sound in constitution, and the soft parts not too extensively damaged. But if these be largely lacerated and widely contused, and the patient aged or broken in health, amputation is imperatively called for. This is more especially the case when the knee is injm'ed ; exten- sive lacerations of this joint, more particularly when complicated Awth disloca- tion or comminution of the bones, being cases for early amputation. If it be determined to make an attempt at saving the joint, the principal point is, if possible, to close the woimd by the first intention, and thus to pre- vent suppiu’ation. With this view the antiseptic method has been employed Avith excellent results, even in cases of severely wounded joint. After remoAing foreign, bodies, splinters, &c., the Avounded articulations must be well washed out Avith carbohe acid lotion (1 to 40), and the dressings apphed Avith minute attention to detail, as described at p. 200. Should antiseptics not be used, the folloAving treatment should be adopted. If the joint be opened by a punctine, or small clean-cut wound, this may occasionally be closed by bringing the edges 'together, and placing a piece of lint soaked in collodion upon it, or a strip of plaster washed over AAuth resm varnish. The joint must then- be placed in a sphnt (plaster of Paris is the best), so as to be rendered absolutely immovable, and should then be sur- roimded by India-rubber bags containing pomaded ice. In fact, the tln-ee great principles of treatment in the early stages of wounds of joints consist in the exclusion of air, perfect rest, and the continuous appheahon of diy co . In this wayinfiammatory action maybe prevented, and the muon of the wound may take place under the plaster ; but in the majority of cases the Wimy is followed by so abundant a secretion of synovia, that the di'essing becomes loosened by the tension and outAvard pressine of the acciunulated fluid Avhich escapes from under it. If the preventive means of arresting and the joint sweU, becoming red, hot, and throbbing, with much constiti t . best done by the free application of leeches over the .loiiit, hot fomentat ons, and the intLal administration of calomel and opium about lorn times in the