DISLOCATION OF THE THUMB. 493 phalano-eal articulation of the thumb is convex backAvards : in this dislocation it becomes convex towards the palmar aspect and angularly concave behind. The head of tlie metacarpal bone can be Mt and seen projecting on the palmar aspect of the thumb. The proximal phalanx stands up as it ivere upon the back of this bone, but the articular surhice ol the phalanx cannot be felt, owing to its being in contact AAuth the posterior part of the metacarpal bone just above its neck. The phalangeal articulation is always semi- hexed. This dislocation of the proximal phalanx of the thumb has, owing to the difllculty of its reduc- tion, attracted more attention from Sm-geons than it Avould at hrst appear to deserve. So great has this difficulty been in some cases, as to render the dis- location iiTcdiicible, notwithstanding the employment of as much force as it was safe to use, and that most skilfully directed, or to compel the Simgeon to have recourse to operative interference in order to replace the head of the bone. The obstacle to the ready reduction of this small bone has been attributed to different causes. Thus, Hey supposed that it was owing to the constriction of the neck of the bone between the lateral hgaments of the joint. Dupuytren entertained a very similar opinion, looking upon the malposition of these ligaments as the principal source of difficulty. The folding in of the apterior ligament of the joint, and the interposition of a sesamoid bone between the articulating sm’faces, have also been looked upon as giving rise to this peculiar difficulty in reduction. The more probable explanation, however, appears to be, that the narrow neck of the metacarpal bone becomes locked between or constricted by the two terminal attachments of the short flexor of the thumb, Avhich must be carried back over its broader head, together with the displaced phalanx ; the head of the metacarpal bone being grasped betAveen these tendons and the torn capsule of the joint, like a stud between the sides of a bntton-hole. The observations of Yidal, Malgaigne, and Ballingall point to this as the cause of the gi’eat difficulty in reduction that is often met with. Reduction.—Although, as has been said, great difficulty in reduction is often met AAuth, it would be a gneat error to suppose that it always exists. On the contrary, very many of these dislocations are, under chloroform, most readily reduced by simple traction and manipulation (Fig. 220). Should any difficulty be experienced, the foUoAAdng plan aaiII usually answer. The hand and metacarpal bone being fixed by an assistant, the Surgeon bends back the thumb, so as to bring the phalanx to a right angle Avith the metacarpal bone on Avhich it is displaced. He noAV employs traction in the axis of the displaced portion of the thumb, keeping the metacarpal bone W’ell pressed down into the palm. Having thus unlocked tlie phalangeal articular surface from the back of that bone, he draAvs it Avell fbrAA'ards, and, AA’hen it is opposite the head of the metacarpal bone, bends it doAvn into the palm. In this Avay I haAc reduced a dislocation of the phalanx backAvards betAveen five and six AA'eeks after its occurrence. Simple traction in the straight direction, hoAACA’er forcible, and oven when aided by the pulleys, Avill do little if any good in the reduction of