EMrilYSEMA OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 64F «vinc under the microscoi:)C, it will generally be found to contain a few blood- •corpuscles and possibly some casts of tubes, wtli mucous and epithelial scales, shoeing the existence of inflammation in the kidney. It is a remarkable and important practical fact that, so flir as my experience goes, I have never seen idbumen in the urine as the result of renal injury, unless it had been pre- ceded by blood. The absence of blood from the urine must not, however, be taken as an indication that the kidney is not injured ; it may be so dis- organised as to be totally incapable of secreting, and consequently no bloody urine finds its way into the bladder. A man was admitted into the Hospital under my care for a butfer-injury of the back ; he passed mine untinged Avith •blood, but after death his right kidney was found completely smashed by the blow, and there Avas an extensiAO extravasation of blood in the cellulo-adipose tissue around it; here it aaus evident that the disorganisation Avas so sudden mad complete that no urine could find its way into the bladder. In another case, in consequence of a fall from a AvindoAV, aai elderly man died in the course of n,ii hoim, having struck his back and sustained several fractiu’es of the limbs. The left kidney was ruptm’ed in a starred manner, with extensiA-e extravasation of blood into the tissues around it, but there Avas not a tinge of blood in the mine which AA’as retained in the bladder. If the Liver have been ruptured, pain over the region of that organ, dulness -on percussion from extravasated blood, and great collapse followed, if the patient live, by diffused traumatic peritonitis, bilious vomitings, white stools, and jaundice, Avill, with sufficient precision, indicate the true iiatm-e of the injury. Bernard has further shown that contusions of the IHer are followed by traumatic saccharine diabetes. When the Stomach is ruptured, the natm-e of the accident is usually revealed by bloody voimting ; and Avhen the Intestines have been tom, by the admixtm’e of blood with the stools, if the patient live long enough to pass any. These signs, however, do not occur in all cases. A man AA^as admitted to the Hospital under my care, whose abdomen had been squeezed between a cartwheel and a lamp-post; dming the five hours that he lived he vomited several times, bringing up a meal which he had taken immediately befoi’e the accident. In the A’omited matters there was no blood to be seen ; but on examination after death it was found that not only the liver and spleen Avei’e ruptmed, but the stomach Avas torn almost completely across near the pyloms. Emphysema of the Abdominal Wall, and subsequently of the trunk generally, may result from the escape of flatus from Avounded intestine into the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and thence into the more superficial planes. When this takes place, the same doughy, puffy, inelastic, crepitating swelling of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, that is met with in thoracic emphysema, is obserA-ed. t usually commences in one or the other flank, and may tlren creep up towards the axilla, or in fr-ont of the abdominal Avail. As a diagnostic sign, this form of emphysema is valuable in those cases in w ici he mtestines have been injured, either Avithout any u^omid of the < jc omma parietes, or, if there be wound, without protrusion of the iiiinred portmn of s„t. two of tbo cases i,. which I l!avo obsen-ed rthis co'^ ion Mas the only positive sign of intestinal injury. In one case, the transA-erse T T