c nor A iirs amfuta tion. 8r cuboid a.Kl scaphoid in front (Fig. 43). This operation may be perlbiW in tn-o ways, either by first making the flap from the sole of the disiirticnlatin<^ (Fig. 44); or, the joints having been ent through from the "to Sap may atowcls bo made (Fig. I prefer the first plan, as it enables the Surgeon to make a more correetly fashioned flap. In operating on the left foot, the knife, a stout bistoury, should be entered well behind the tubercle of the scaphoid, and can’ied forwards for at least three inches to about the head of the metatai'sal bone of the great toe, then right across the sole, and down the outer side of the foot, as far as half an inch behind the metatarsal bone. On the ruiM foot this line of incision is reversed, Fig. 45.—Chopart s Operation. Flap formed after Disarticulation. Fig. 40. 1. Line of Amputation of Great Toe. ‘2. Line of Cliopart’s 0])eration. 3. Line of Excision of Os Galois. by the kin’re being entered half an inch behind the metatarsal bone of the little toe, cairied forwards to the root of the toes across the sole, and douui the inner side to behind the tubercle of the scaphoid (Fig. 46, 2). This flap should be made long, especially at the hiner side, but well rounded at the angles, and should consist of the Avhole thickness of parts in the sole of the foot, Avhich must be well dissected out fr-om the concaAdty under the metatarsal bones. But in children and young adults, in Avhom the foot is otten long and the tarsus thin, the flap need not be made so long. A convex incision is then made along the dorsum fr-om one horn to the other of the plantar flap ; the parts are well retracted, and the articulations opened by the Surgeon bearing firmly upon the anterior part of the foot, and lightly touching the ligamentous structures Avith the point of his bistoury. In this stage of the operation, care must be taken that the edge of the bistoury be not in- clined too much backAvards, lest it slip over the astragalus and open the ankle- joint ; or too far forwards, lest it pass anterior to the scaphoid—betAA^een it and the cuneiform bones. After disarticnlation has been produced, the pro-