Fli AC TUBES. 386 the source of the wasting discharge : but, hy removing this in time, and seizing an interval in which constitutional action may have been somewhat lessened, the patient’s life will in all probability be preser\’ed ; the results of secondary amputation for compound fractiu’e in these conditions being by no means unfavourable. Indeed, it is remarkable to see how speedily the con- stitutional irritative and hectic symptoms subside after the removal of the som-ce of irritation ; the patient often sleeping well, and taking his food with appetite the day after the operation. The proper period to seize for the performance of secondary amputation in the earlier stages of the injiny is often a most critieal point. As a general rule, it may be stated that, if the limb be not removed dmlng the hrst twenty- four hours, eight or ten days must be allowed to elapse before the operation is done ; as during that time constitutional irritation and suppimative fever are too general and active to render fresh shock to the system admissible. But when once the actions appear to tend to locahse themselves, the suppm’ation becoming more abundant, the redness extending but slowly, and the constitu- tional symptoms merging into an asthenic form, then the limb may be removed with the best prospect of success. The more the action is locahsed, the greater is the chance of the operation succeeding. In many cases the symptomatic and suppm’ative fever so rapidly becomes asthenic, that the Sm’geon must seize the best moment he can for amputation. In these circumstances the operation is seldom very successful; the stimip becomes sloughy, erysipelas or dilfuse inflammation of the areolar tissue comes on, or symptoms of pyremia set in, and the patient speedily dies. In other- cases again, between the stages of the inflammatoi-y and suppmative fever and the supervention of the typhoid symptoms, there is a marked interval of twelve or twenty-foiu- horns, or even more. During this, the mischief may be looked upon as in a great measme of local character; the constitution has been distm-bed by the setting up of the inflammatory action, but, this having terminated in suppuration, it has not yet become seriously depressed by the continued irritation of the discharge from the injm-ed hmb, or poisoned by the absorption of morbid matters from it. The patient’s powers must not, however, be allowed to sink to the last ebb before amputation is performed ; as then, if the shock do not destroy life, intercmTent and visceral congestion, or some low form of inflammatory mis- chief, win not improbably prove fatal. Much as “ consei-vative ” siu-gery is to be admii-ed and cultivated, and hasty or unnecessary operation to be depre- cated, I cannot but think that the hfe of the patient is occasionally jeopardised, and even lost, by disinclination on the part of the Surgeon to operate sufii- ciently early in cases of compound fractme, and by too prolonged attempts at saving the injm-ed limb. The success of the operation -ttull in a great measure depend upon the after- treedment. Large quantities of stimulants and support arc often required in London practice to prevent the patient fr-om sinking. I have fr-cquently given with the best results, eight or ten ounces of brandy, twelve or sixteen of port wine, or two or thi-ee pints of porter, in the twenty-fom- horns alter these operations, with beef-tea, arrow-root, or meat, if the patient would take it, and have found it absolutely necessary to do so to obviate death fr-om exhaustion.