DRESSING OF THE WOU^'E. 3T licalth of the body and the life of the patient will be endangered by con- tamination from a fold sore or a fetid abscess half filled with putrescent pus and swarming with filth-begotten organisms. This local or wound-hygiene consists in the prevention of the retention, and consequent decomposition of discharge, whether of blood, serum, or pus, by the use of drainage, frequent ablutions, or injections with antiseptic washes, and protection from the air. The dressing of an operation-wound presents- nothing peculiar, or that in any way differs from what is adopted in ordinaiy incised\ounds. As a general rule, the wound should bo dressed before the patient leaves the table ; should there be any reasons for departing from this^ the plan that was recommended by Liston, and which was invariably adopted in former years at XJnivei’sity College Hospital, is a very excellent one, nz., to leave the ivound open with a piece of wet lint interposed between its lips, for two or thi-ee hoims, imtil its siu’faces have become glazed ; the lint is then care- fully removed, any small coagula are gently taken aAvay, and the sides of the incision brought into apposition, the sutures being drawn tight and tied. Long- strips of plaster of moderate width should now be applied ; these may be either- of the isinglass or the common adhesive kind, each having advantages that i*econmiend" it in particular cases, -with corresponding disadvantages that exclude it in others. The isinglass plaster is clean, uniiTitating, and, being- transparent, allows a good view of subjacent parts ; but it has the disadvantage of loosening and stripping off when moistened by the discharges or dressings, which often renders it a very inefficient support. The conxmon adhesive plaster is more in-itating and dirty, but it is much stronger, and holds more tightly, not loosening so readily when moistened. Should the Surgeon prefer “ anti- septic ” efressings, he must employ them in accordance with the rules laid do-uui in the Chapter on the Treatment of Wounds. But in any case he must not omit, especially if the operation wound be deep and extensive, to use a “ drain- age-tube,” in order to prevent the retention in it of the serous fluid that oozes from the cut sm-faces, and the retention of which in the wound is in many ways most in jurious. In some cases, in which the woimd is in such a situation as to admit of it, and more particularly if it be a deep though clean cut—as after the extii-pation of a tumom-—gveat advantage "will be found, after the sutures ha-\'e been introduced and the plasters applied, in padding the part externally vith a firm compress of dry hnt, and then applying a roller tightly but evenly over all, so sis to compress the sides against the bottom of the wound an^ the edges firmly one against the other. In this way will not only all oozing be prevented, but direct coalescence and union of the opposed surfaces may be secured. This dry compress may be left undisturbed for forty-eight hours, when it should ]jc removed and another applied, or, if it appear more desiraljle, the part covered -with water-dressing. The of the part should be carefully attended to, so that the edges and surfaces of the incision be brought into proper contact; more maybe done in this way, without pain or uneasiness to the patient, than by any amount of ti-action and pressure that can be exercised. The part should be so arranged that one end of the incision may be the more dependent, so as to facilitate the escape of discharges. One end of each ligature should be cut oft' short, the other being left of a moderate length to hang out of the loAvcst part of the