714 PYjEMIA. suppuration commences in different tissues, joints, and organs. Abscess may form in the lungs or pleura) without cough or pain ; if in the areolar tissue, or in the substance of muscles, there is usually doughy swelling, with some red- ness ; it in the joints, the swelling is often considerable, the pain usually intense and very superficial and cutaneous, the patient screaming aloud with the agony. These pains, which are chiefly seated in the knees, ankles, hips, and shoulders, often simulate rheumatism very closely, and have been mis- taken for that disease. The progress of the disease is usually from bad to worse, sometimes rapidly, but at other times not uninterruptedly so, there being remissions and apparent, though not real, improvement. The patient rapidly wastes, the body becoming shninken, the muscles soft, and the skin grey or sallow, loose and pendulous ; great debUity also sets in. The abdomen becomes tympanitic, diarrhoea or profuse sweats come on ; pneumonia or pleuritic effusions declare themselves ; delirium, from which the patient is easily roused, alternates with sopor ; and at last he sinks from exhaustion. Death usually takes place about the tenth or twelfth day ; though it may occin as early as the fourth, or the patient may linger on for six or seven weeks. In other cases pyrnmia occurs in a very insidious manner, either without any rigor or with one so slight as hardly to be noticed. Occasionally the rigor may be more distinct, but in this variety of the affection it is never repeated dining the coinse of the disease. It seems, in fact, little more than an exaggeration of the pre-existing surgical fever. The temperature remains high, shoving, perhaps, shght fluctuations, but never presenting the extreme variations seen in ordinary pyaemia. There are complete loss of appetite and rapid wasting ; occasionally diarrhoea is present, and more rarely vomiting. The tongue is extremely dry and furred, so as to render the patient’s speech thick and unintelligible. After a time the skin assumes a yellowish thit, as do the conjunctive. This colour is not due to true jaundice, but rather to an alteration in the blood, in consequence of which the red corpuscles break up dining life, thus staining all the tissues of the body with their pigment. In acute cases, after fr’om three to six days, the temperature falls,- the pulse becomes more and more feeble, and the patient sinks into a semi-comatose state, in which he dies. If life be prolonged for a longer time, symptoms of low pneumonia orpleinisy, and, perhaps, pericarditis set in; abscesses may form in some of the joints, or in the seat of recent injuries or points of pressine, as over the backs of the arms, shoulders, or sacrum ; and the patient gradually emaciates and dies exhausted. In these more chronic cases, the staining of the skin is not noticed. Many writers describe the above conditions luider the name of septiciemia, and would distinguish it fr’om pya)mia as a distinctly separate, although nearly allied, condition, resening the name pyiemia foi those cases in which metastatic abscesses distinctly referable to emboUsm are to be found. No doubt many cases are seen presenting every possible stage between the most typical specimens of the tw'O varieties, and this has been use as an argument in favoin of their identity ; but it might also be explained by supposing that the two conditions may exist at one time mingled with each other in varying proportions. _ j . . 2. The Formation of nnmerons Purulent Deposits, “ sccondaiy or