LTMPIIADENOMA. 917 When the strumous diathesis is well marked the constitutional treatment recommended in the Chapter on Scrofula and Tubercle must be employed. The lymphatic glands occasionally become much enlarged in the neck, axilla, and groin without any indications of struma, but attended by much debility, and usually great emaciation ; in these circumstances, the best remedies are liquor potassm in* full doses, iodide of iron, and cod-liver oil. OTHBK DISEASES OP LYMPHATICS AND THEIR GLANDS. Lyjiphadenoma, or, as it is also called, Simple L3rmphoma or Hodgkin’s disease,” is a tumour composed of a tissue exactly resembling the cortical part of a lymphatic gland—the so-called “ adenoid tissue of His.” It usually gi-ows from pre-existing lymphatic tissue, and the situations into which it most commonly comes under the observation of the Surgeon are in connection with the lymphatic glands of the neck, axilla, or groin. These tumours arc also not uncommonly found in the upper part of the pharynx, growing fr'om the lymphatic follicles in that region. They may be single, and are then usually of considerable size ; but they may affect all the lymphatic glands, the liver, spleen, kidneys, &c., at the same time. This condition may be accom- panied by an excess of white corpuscles in the blood, constituting the disease known as leucocythmmia ; or this symjitom may be absent, constituting the disease described by Trousseau under the name of Adenie. The enlargement is not accompanied by pain or inflammation. These tumom-s may vary in size from a miUet-seed to a foetal head. Several such tumours may imite together, forming a single mass ; if situated in the neck or in connection with the bronchial glands, they may cause death by pressure on the trachea. They are usually well defined ; but they ai-e described by Billroth as occasionally invading the sm-rounding tissues, then forming the so-called malignant lymphomata. Such cases are always fatal by marasmus and anemia. Bilh’oth describes lymphoma as occurring also in tissues not belonging to the lymphatic system, as in the jaw, scapula, and areolar tissue. Structure—In the lymphatic glands, lymphadenoma resembles simple hyper- trophy ; but on section it will be found that all distinction between cortical and medullary parts is lost, the whole mass being composed of tissue resembhng the cortical part. On section, lymphadenoma much resembles medullary cancer ; it is soft, gi-eyish in colour, with spots of red, due to ha3morrhages or dilated vessels ; and opaque or cheesy spots may be scattered through it. It yields a juice on scraping, like cancer-juice. The juice obtained by scraping a lympha- denoma IS found, with the aid of the microscope, to be composed of innumerable round cells, ha,\*ing the size and appearance of lymph-corpuscles or the white corpuscles of the blood. On examining the tumour by means of sections made rom hardened specimens, a delicate reticulate stroma is seen, the meshes of which are iiUed with the cells found in the juice ahove m^itLT ^ Stroma can only be seen clearly by washing out the cells, either by shakiim the section m water or brushing it with a camel’s-hair pencil. (Fig. 288.) ^ Ihe Causes oi lymphadenoma are very obscure. It affects both sex4 and is chiefly nret with in young adults. Its immcdi.ate origin nray somrt ^ referred to prolonged fatigue, extreme muscular e.xertion, or residence in iraid