516 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. exposed osseous surface, which will probably necrose, may be excised, or the Avbole of the astragalus may be dissected out by freely exposing it, and severing its ligamentous attachments ; the patient recovering with a somewhat stiffened, but still useful joint. This plan appears to bo safer than excising the bone in the first mstance, so soon as the dislocation has been found to be irreducible. The operation of excising the dislocated astragalus may bo greatly facilitated by the exsanguination of the foot and leg by means of Esmarch’s elastic bandage. The tissues ai’O pale and the operation is bloodless, so that the Simgeon has full command over his knife, and can see exactly what he is cutting, and where. In luxation bacicwards, the bone has not hitherto to my knowledge been reduced, except in one case which occurred in University CoUege Hospital, and in which the tibia and fibula were also fractnred. It is by no means im- probable that subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis may in futm-e enable the Surgeon to effect reduction. The result is, however, satisfactory, even thouo-h the bone be not reduced, the patient recovering with a useful foot. If the dislocation be left mmeduced, the soft parts covering the bone may slough, as happened in a case recorded by R. C. Williams of Diibhn, in which the bone was consecpiently extracted. ^ i In Compound Dislocation of the Astragalus (Fig. 240), the rule of practice must depend upon the extent of injiny. If the integaiments have merely been rent in consequence of the outward pressure of the displaced bone, an attempt must be made to reduce the dislocation by the aid, if necessary, of the division of the tendo Achillis ; and, if this be effected, to close the woimd Fig. 240. -Dissection of Foot in Compound Dislocation of Astragalus outwai-ds. the fet mtentioB. If the hone be e—ted ^ *e proper practice mil be to V J by If the bone wound in the simplest ‘ Pe kft or dissected out. If it be irreducible, it is a question whethei it ^koui 1 De the be left, the wound in the i^^tegxunents wil ^ bone yfiU infiame and become emous dangerous com^e the patient will only reco-i ei attei c \ ° to me that the of treatment. In theee tat in simpler and safer plan both to Imrb and „si„g the proper directions, so as to dissect out the iiieciucium