AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 97 risk which results from suppuration witliiu that canal, the infiltration of pus into it, and the consequent liability to suppiu-ative infiammation of the veins of the bone, and consecutive pymmia. 2. He is provided with a long thigh-stump, which gives increased leverage in using an artificial limb. 3. When the ampu- tation is practised with the long anterior flap containing the patella, the end of the stump will be protected by the dense and tough integumental and aponeurotic structures naturally situated in fi’ont of the knee-joint, which admit of pressure being made upon them without fear of excoriation : the cicatrix being ebawn up behind the end of the stump, and altogether away fi’om its surface. Aju’UTATions of the Thigh are commonly reqnhed both for accident and for disease. They may be performed in three situations : immediately above the knee, in the middle of the limb, or in its upper third. Amputation just above the knee is best done by lateral flaps ; for this reason, that the mass of muscle in this part of the thigh lies on each side of the limb, the central portion being occupied in front by the tendinous and aponeurotic structures connected with the patella, and behind by the upper triangle of the popliteal space : hence, if antero-posterior flaps be made here, they will be thin and tendinous in the middle ; whereas the lateral flaps are imiformly thick and Fig. 62.- Amputation of the Lowev Third of the Thigh hy Lateral Flaps. fleshy. In the middle and upper thirds of the thigh, the soft parts are so distrilnited that the antero-posterior flaps leave the best result, and give the best covering to the bone. If lateral flaps be made in these situations, the end of the bone is apt to be drawn up into the angle of the Avound between the flaps, Avhich fall away behind it. In amputation in the loAver or middle third, a tourniquet may be applied high on the limb ; but AA'^hen the operation is done in the upper third, there is no space for the application of this instru- ment, and the Surgeon must then use the abdominal tourniquet or trust to an assistant compressing the artery as it passes over the brim of the pelvis (Fig. 0, p. 35). Compression is best made by grasping the great trochanter Avith the fingers of one hand, and then applying the thumb firmly over the artery; upon this ttie other thumb is then pressed as firmly as possible, and thus all chance of letting the vessel slip is prevented In Avhatever situation A"OL. I. H