difference being that, when the head of the bone rests m the sciatic notch, the II 500 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. vpivards on the dorsnni. The position of the limb is remarkable, being dis- tinctly rotated inwards, with the thigh slightly bent upon the abdomen, and the leg upon the thigh, so that the knee is semi-flexed, and raised from the siu'face on which the patient is lying. The foot is inverted, so that the ball of the great toe rests on the instep or against the ankle of tbe sound limb ; and the heel is somewhat raised. The axis of the dislocated thigh is directed across the lower third of the sound thigh. The movements of the joint are greatly impaired : abduction and eversion are not practicable ; but inversion, abduction, and some flexion upon the abdomen, can be practised. AVhen the patient is lying flat, with the knee slightly raised and advanced, the lumbar spine is on its proper level; but if an attempt be made to straighten the knee, so that the limb lies flat, the lumbar spine will arch forwards. W^hen the head of the bone shps a little further back so as to become lodged in the sciatic notch., we have the dislocation “ backwards of Sir A. Cooper’; or, as Bigelow calls it, “ dorsal below the tendon,” because the head of the bone lies belorv the tendon of the obtiu-ator internus muscle (Fig. 224). In this the same symptoms exist, though to a less degree ; hence the diagnosis is pro- portionately difficult. There is much less deformity about the hip in this variety of the displacement, orving to the head of the bone sinking into the hollow of the notch, and thus presenting the trochanter nearly in its usual position at right angles with the ilium, though somewhat behiird and a little above its irormal situation. In consequence of the head of the bone being received in a depression, the axis of the limb is not altered to the same extent as when it is thrown upoir the plane sm’face of the dorsum ilii; hence the inversion of the knee and foot, though existing, is usually not so strongly marked. Bigelow, however, says that the inversion is greater in the dislocation “ below the tendon ” (Fig. 227). As the sciatic notch is but a little above the^ level^ of the acetabulum, the shortening of the hmb is inconsiderable, not exceeding half an inch or an inch at most. The axis of the linib also is directed across the sound knee. Thus the signs of these two forms o is oca- tion are nearly identical in character, though varying in degree ; the principal. axis of the femiu’ is directed to the opposite knee, whereas, when the head o the bone is lodged on the dorsum ihi, the axis of the hmb is directed across ■ ' the lower part of the sound thigh. , . i i Causes.—dislocation upwards and backwards is that which most frequently met with in the hip. It is occasioned by he' limb whilst adducted, with the body bent forwards upon thigh upon the abdomen; as when a person is struck on the ‘ ^ weight, or is thi’own forwards, or falls whilst cm-i^ng a ‘ Jpole of shoulders, when the upper and posterior part of the ]oni receiv the strain. In these chcumstances, the capsular ligament is ruptuied, and th bone slips out of its articulation. Muoli inversioi^. (Bi- gelow.) 4