809 CASES PROPER FOR OPERATION. „ „r Mi'lrais asiii6omccasesi-ecor(lodbyBrodio,witlia.-iewofpi-o- snffcim , , p 1 . expectation of affecting a permanent eme. ‘“■f'le « be so large, or be so sitnated, that its removal cannot be mitetaken without so serious an oircration as to occasion m itself consideiablo vitik fhe m’owietv of operating is cilways A ciy doubtful. 3’ Cases proper for Oj)eratio7i.—nio&Q cases of cancer in which an operation is in my opinion, not only perteotly iustfflable, bnt should be m'ged upon the mtient as Uording the best prospect of preserving life, are those in which the disease has appeai-ed to originate h-om a strictly local cause in P™® irise ill good health, and in whom there is no cachexy or hereditaiy taint. If the timoiu- be of sciiThous ohin-actcr, slow in its progress, single, dis- tinctly circumscribed, without adhesions to or imphcation of the skm 01 glands, luid more especiaUy if it be attended with much pain, or with im- mediate risk to Ufe from any cause, and if the whole of the growth, togethei with a sufficient quantity of the ncighboining healthy tissues m which it is imbedded, can be removed with case, the case may be looked upon as a fit one for operation. In aU encephaloid cancers also, early operation should be practised -Ruth the view of prolonging hfe. • n i p An important question in connection with operations for cancer is, at what period of the growth they may be done with the best prospect of success. Most Sm-geons, taking a common-sense view of this question, are in fayoin of removing the affection as early as possible ; feehng that, as it is difficult to say when the local form of the disease becomes constitutional, it is safer to remove it as soon as its true natine has been ascertained.; and I confess that I can see no ad^■antage that can be gained by delay. The necessity for eaily operation in nudullary cancer is admitted by aU ; but with regard to scirrhous cancer the opinion is entertained by some, that in many cases there is a better prospect of success if the operation be delayed ; and it is stated by Hervez de Chegoin and Leroy d’Etiolles, that the result of those cases operated on after the cancer has lasted for some time, is more favourable than that of those in which an early operation has been done ; the cancer often appearing to be arrested in its development, and to localise itself, as it becomes more chronic, and having consequently a less tendency to speedy return after removal. That the result of operations in such selected cases is favoinable, is probable enough ; as it may be reasonably supposed that the more active varieties of cancer, those that possess the greatest amount of vegetative activity and of reproductive power, may have acquired a condition unfavourable to operation, or may even have carried off' the patient before any period of arrest in their growth has occurred, during which their extirqratioir could be practised with a fair pros- pect of success. In delaying operation there is, however, much danger lest A aluable time be lost iir the employment of means which, ineffectual in arrest- ing the disease, may become positively injurious by allowing time to the morbid growth to corrtaminatc the glandrdar system, or to extend widely through neighboiu’ing tissues. If we look uporr a cancer as a growth which must necessarily destroy life, either by changes taking place in its own sub- stance or by the contamination of the system, and which is intractable to all medication, whether topical or constitutional, wc must regard its extirpation as the only resource that Surgery offers ; and wc may assuredly infer, that the