440 SPECIAL FRACTURES. fcrcd, amputation must be practised. But if the wound be but small, made [y peifoiation of the bone rather than by the violence which occasioned the fractiu’c, and if the vessels bo uninjured, an attempt must be made to save the lunb, which should be put up on the double inclined plane or in the lon«- bracketed splint. ” The treatment of the complication of a loound of the mean artery, femoral or popliteal, ivith and by a fractme of the thigh-bone, mil vary according as the injmy is compound or simple. Such an accident, complicating a compoimd fracture, would probably be a case for immediate amputation. If the fracture be simple, and a diffused traumatic aneurism form in the ham or lower part of the thigh, we must, in accordance with the principles laid down at page 380, ligatiu'e the superficial femoral artery; imless gangrene be supervening, or have actually supervened, when the thigh must be amputated above the fractiu’e. In discussing the treatment of these accidents, in which the question of am- putation of the thigh is raised, I cannot too strongly state my conviction that, unavoidable as it undoubtedly is in some cases, as the only alternative left to the Surgeon, this operation, when practised iwimarily for fractures of the thigh-lone, is one of the most fatal in surgery, and should accordingly not be too hastily resolved upon. 3. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Knee-Joint.—The lower end of the thigh-bone may be broken across transversely, through the line of junction between the epiphyses and the shaft, both condyles being detached. This most readily occiu’s in children, from the lower epiphyses not being as yet solidly united to the shaft of the "bone. In other cases, the fractme extends thi’ough one of the condyles, detaching it from the shaft of the bone. The readiness with which crepitus can be felt, the line of fracture made out, and the displacement removed by lateral pressure, determines at once the natime of this accident. to project backwards into the ham, while the lower end oi the upper fragment When the femiu’ is fractimed transversely immediately above the condyles, the lower fi’agment is powerfully acted on by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and pophteus muscles, which flex it upon the tibia, causing its upper extremity Fig. 187. — lm)iaoteil Fracture of Lower End of Thigh-bone. Figs. 188, 189.—Comminuted Fracture of Condyles from fiiU on the Bent Knees