524 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. to day ; and cveiy one being false, but believed in by the patient at the time. The patient could be led, by a process of questioning and suggestions combined, to give almost any version that the intciTogator desired ; and this with great circumstantiality of detail. This is a matter of much interest and importance in a medico-legal aspect, as it is evident that an individual Avho has sustained a sc^'crc injury of the head might, in perfect good faith, give an entirely false account of the mode of infliction of the injury, by which an innocent person might be seriously compromised. The Secondary Consequences of injury to the brain consist of, 1, Inflam- mation ; and 2, the Deposit of Pus and other iirfiammatory exudations upon or within that organ and its membranes. 1. Teaumatic Encephalitis.—Inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes from injury {Traumatic Encephalitis) is an affection of gveat frequency and of corresponding importance. It is specially apt to superv-ene on all inju- ries of the head ; though the liability to it necessarily increases ivith the seve- rity of the accident. This inflammation of the brain and its membranes may set in with great intensity, the symptoms of phrenitis being strongly mai-ked ; in other instances, it gradually creeps on in a slow and insidious manner, not attracting attention until it has given rise to some severe and ulterior conse- quences, as effusion or suppuration, Avhen its symptoms become so mixed up with those of compression and of iiritation, as to make the exact diagnosis of the patient’s condition far from easy. The period at which symptoms of in- flammation of the brain may manifest themseh'es, after an injury of the head, varies greatly. In some instances they set m almost immediately the patient has recovered from the effects of the concussion ; the reaction from this state gradually assuming an inflammatory character. In other cases, it is not imtil after several days that inflammation declares itself; and, again, it sometimes happens that the inflammatory affection does not supervene for weeks or months : but then, occiuring perhaps mider the influence of comparatively triA’ial causes, it may destroy the patient. Pathological Changes.—After death, we usually find both the brain and its membranes inflamed. The arachnoid is, how^ei'er, the structine that appeals principally to suffer, being thickened, so as to become milky and semi-opaque. Adherent lymph of a greenish-yellow colour and opaque -purulent appearance, covers one or both hemispheres of the brain, being deposited in largest quantity at the seat of the injiuy, and not imfr-equently extending across and into its fissmes, occupying especially the depressions about its base. The vascii aiity of the brain and its membranes is greatly increased ; the arachnoid being red- dened in patches, and the vessels of the pia mater becoming tingid and very numerous, forming a Avascular network over the sinface of the ram. ^ e sinuses also are distended AAnth blood ; the cerebral substance exhibits an in- crease in the number of red points, so as often to present a somewhat rosy hue; and the A-entricles are filled AAdth reddish semi-tiirbid serum, a large T^^u^tfly of Avhich is effused about the base of the brain. In some of the mme adA ance cases, inflammatory softening of the cerebral substance may occiii. Symptoms.—In considering the symptoms of traumatic encephalitis, useless to cndeavoiu’ to make a distinction between t e m amma loi brain and that of its membranes ; the tAVO structiu’cs being a aa ays mor