COAPTATION OF SURFACES. 191 attcr it has been once closed, destroys tlie layer of effused fibrine 'which ought to form the bond of union. 8. The next and most important indication to fulfil, is the Coaptation of the Opposed Surfaces and the Exclusion of Air as accurately as possible. As a general rule, the sides should not be brought together until all luemon-hage has ceased ; if, however, there be but slight oozing, this may be aiTested by the approximation, and the pressure thus exercised on the bleeding vessels. Before doing so, however, the whole extent of the wound should be washed with an antiseptic solution, to obviate as much as possible snbsecpient decomposition. For this piu'pose a wateiy solution of carbolic acid (1 to 40) is the best; some prefer a lotion (10 gr. to si) of chloride of zinc, or sulphiu-ous acid, or ether. The surfaces should then be gently brought together, from behind foiwwrds, so as to thoroughly exclude aU air and super- fluous moisture fi'om the deeper portions of the wound, the skin margin being the last to be adjusted; due attention should at the same time be paid to relaxing the parts by position, so that there may be no gainng of the bps nor tension on the sides of the wound. The airangement of the parts should be such that there may be a ready escape for the serous oozing, which must necessarily ensue in wounds that do not at once adhere throughout their whole extent. This should be allowed to take j)lace from Avhat will be eventually the most dependent point of the wound ; and where ligatures have been used, the threads should be brought out at the same spot. The ligatures, if thick and numerous, A\iU serve as a conduit or drain for the fluids that are poured out by the cut surfaces. But in addition to these, and in all cases in which they are cut short, it may be well to insert a “ drainage-tube ” into the wound, and retain it there fr-om 48 hoiu’s to several days, according to the amount and character of the discharge. The value of the drainage-tube in preventing the accranulation of blood, of bloody senun, and of pus, cannot be over-estimated. It is the greatest safe- guard we have against decomposition of fluids and their accumulation in the V oinid, and this more than any other means favours cohesion of its oj)posite sides, and secures the patient from all danger of septic contamination. Its use should never be omitted, especially if the woimd be deep and irregular, or if there be danger of bagging under a flap. For the purpose of keej)ing all in position, sutures, plaster Si and bandages are employed. ^ S^itures should be used as httle as possible. They are painful in their introducMon, instating in their presence, and often troublesome as well as painfr I in their removal. They also tend to favour bagging, by causing supei-ficial union, whilst the deeper parts still gape. With aU their disad"- vantages, they must, however, be employed when there is more tendency to gaping than can be overcome by position or plasters. Threads of well-annealed SI \ei 01 iron wire, of ^'arious degrees of stoutness, are now more generally iisec t an those ot silk, as they are less iiritating, are incapable of imbibing the secretions of the wound, and, when once adjusted, keep the form first o'ivcii 0 em. In cases, however, where the sutures are only retained for a day or JVC 1 IS not of much moment which material is used; if it be sifle, it should be Su nx "•“«! ^ a<= tl'icknoss should v„ry tho uatmo and situation of the iiijiiiy. Thus, iii ivounds of the limbs(