TREATMENT OF DEPRESSED FRACTURE. 551 Linear Cuts, as by sabre or batchefc, into the skull, j)cuetrating the outer table, are apt to splinter the inner one, in the same way as occui's in a “ punctiu-ed” fracture, to which they bear a close analogy. They require the same preventive trephining that is needed in the true punctured fractm-e, having for its object the removal of splinters and spicula, which would infallibly produce a fatal meningitis if left. In those rare cases iii which there is a Depressed Fracture, without symptoms of compression or even a wound of the sealp, the rule of prac- tice is somewhat unsettled, as to whether the depressed portion of bone should be left where it is, or an attempt be made to elevate it. Sir A. Cooper, Abernethy, and Dupuytren advise that, if it do not give rise to any symptoms of compression, it is better not to interfere with it; and there are several cases on record of patients who have reeovered in whom this course was adopted, the depression eontinuing permanent. That non-interference is the p)roper coiu-se to pursue in some cases, more particularly in children, there can be no doubt. I have had under my care a child in whom, in consequence of a fall, there was on one of the parietal bones a depression as large as a croum- piece, its edges being sharply defined : no signs of compression or of inflam- mation of the brain ensued, and it was consequently left without interference, the child making an excellent recovery, and continuing well. Indeed, in childi'en, the amount of injury that may be inflicted on the brain not only by compression but by actual laceration, and yet be followed by recovery, is very surprising. In the adult, the cerebral substance does not accommodate itself so readily to injuries, and here the line of practice is not quite so definite. But even in persons of mature age, under certain favourable circumstances, bone may be depressed and continue so without giving rise either to compression of the brain or to inflammation of its membranes. I had once under my care a case which illustrated this point forcibly. The patient, a middle-aged man, fell on his head into an area, and stripped off the greater part of the scalp from the anterior part of the head and the vertex ; on the upper part of the left parietal bone was a staiTed and depressed fractm’e of the skull as large as a florin. As the depression was smooth, not more than a quarter of an inch in depth, and there was no symptom of compression, I drew the scalp forwards and left the bone untouched, the patient making an excellent recovery, without any symptom of intracranial^ mischief. I am also acquainted with a gentleman upwards of fifty years of age, who has a depression in the parietal bone as large as the bowl of a table-spoon, the result of a fractiu’e by a fall from a horse when a lad, and from which no inconvenience has resulted. I think, however, that the expectant treatment should not be followed too implicitly, but that we must be guided by the circumstances of the particular case. If the depression be nearly uniform, of inconsiderable depth, and occupy a large extent of skull, which is depressed in a smooth hollow or bowl-like manner, and more especially if the patient be young and the scalp unwounded, it may be better doubtless to follow the advice of Cooper, Abernethy, and Dupuytren, and to wait for symptoms of compression manifesting themselves before we interfere.^ If, however, the scalp be wounded, the depression sharp, deep, and comparatively small in extent, we may reasonably suspect the existence of