25 NITROUS OXIDE GAS. absence of violent excitement, is a very important consideration in its fa^om. The penetratimr and long peraistent odour of ether, though of minor import, is not without its disad\-antage to many who are delicate or susceptible. .S. As to Safety.—^0 amesthctic is absolutely safe. It is impossible to annihilate, even temporarily, mental consciousness and physical sensibility mth- oiit some risk. With ordinary care and some degree of experience, this risk is capable of being reduced to very trifling proportions. So small is the risk that many a Surgeon goes through a lengthened hospital experience without meeting iidth a fatal case. But, slight as is the danger from the administration of aiiEesthetics bv competent persons, there is still luidoubtedly a certain deh- nite peril attendant on their use. That this is somewhat greater when chloroform is used than when ether is employed is probable—how much gi-eater is uncertain. There are no data before the profession from which a compara- tive estimate of the relative danger of these tivo agents can be dra^ni. That many fatal accidents have occiuTed from the administration of chloro- foim diu’ing the twenty-five years in which it was almost the exclusive amesthetic used ill this country, is unfortiuiately too true. How many of these were ineHtable—due to causes beyond the control of the administrator and solely referable to the toxic action of the amesthetic—is uncertain. That but few fatal accidents have as yet followed the administration of ether is certain. How far this is due to this ansesthetic being actually safer—ie., less toxic than chloroform—is uncertain ; and the comparison is at present scarcely just. For, since the re-introduction of ether into practice, it has chiefly been employed by professed and experienced amesthetisers, and much greater skill in the management of aiiEesthetics has been acquired by the profession than could or did exist in the earlier days of the practice. In conclusion, I would say that, with reasonable care and in fairly skilled hands, both chloroform and ether are agents that may safely be administered in the vast majority of cases requiring siu’gical operations: that in most cases they are equally applicable: that in some chloroform, in others ether, is the preferable agent: that in midwifery, mihtary, naval, and single-handed coimtry practice, chloroform, being far less bulky, more portable, and more easy of administration, is preferable to ether; but that, so far as we can at present judge, ether less frequently than chloroform produces a direct toxic infliience on the heart, and is consequently so far the safer agent of the- two. Nitrous Oxide Gas was the first antesthetic used. Its employment was,. lidwcN'er, soon discontinued, ether, and subsequently chloroform, taking its place. It was, howcA'er, re-introduced a few years ago as an anassthetic by the American dentists. It is an admirable antesthetic, capable of producing com- plete insensibility; rapid in its action ; safe in administration, and seldom gi\ iug rise to any impleasant after-effects. It has, however, one drawback which prevents its applicability to prolonged operations. The class of cases to' Avhich the nitrous oxide is applicable as an anaesthetic is restricted, owing to- the shortness of the duration of the anaesthesia produced by it, and the sud- den ness and completeness of the return to consciousness, leaving the after- smart of the operation almost as severely felt as the sting of the cut itself coiild have been. Nitrous oxide is chiefly of use in operations iTuattended by