885 TREATMENT OF LUPUS. manifestations, make it easy to distinguish one from the other. From e]}illiehal cancer, lupus cannot in some cases be distinguished ; the two affections indeed being closely blended together, and being scarcely recognisable as distinct diseases. The Treatment of lupus depends in a great measure upon the yariety or the disease with which we have to do, and the constitutional condition attending it, and calls for the employment not only of local but of general remedies. In Liqms Non-execlens we may, if the disease be limited, excise the patch and heal the sore that results by granulation. Not unfr'equcntly, however, the cicatrix is apt to undergo fibro-vascular degeneration. If recourse be not had to excision, on account of the extent and superficial character of the disease, it is useless to attempt to destroy it by caustics. In every case in which I have seen these tried, they have failed in effecting a cure. In some instances, however, the application of a strong solution of the nitrate of silver to the morbid siuface will induce a healthier action ; though in the majority of instances local applications of a soothing kind can alone be borne. Lotions con- taining glycerine are especially useful, as they prevent the siu-face from becoming diy and harsh. If the disease be situated on the face, care should be taken to avoid exposure to cold winds, dust, &c. In the constiLuUonal treatment, the avoidance of stimulants of aU kinds, the use of a bland diet, and the employ- ment of some of the preparations of arsenic, will be found to be the most likely means to effect a cime. Indeed, arsenic may be considered the great remedy in this disease ; the liquor arsenicahs, or the iodide in combination with small doses of biniodide of mercury, will be found extremely useful; Donovan’s solution is also most beneficial in many instances. The treatment of Liqms Execlens must have reference to the constitutional condition in Avhich it occurs ; if this be of a strumous character, the adminis- tration of cod-liver oil and the iodide of potassium, Avith a nourishing diet, Avill be most serviceable ; in a syphilitic constitution, the remedies that are appli- cable to the cure of tertiary syphilis, such as the perchloride of mercury and Donovan’s solution, are especially useful. In many cases also in AA'hich there can be no suspicion of a syphilitic taint, these preparations of mercury, as well as the iodides of the same metal, may be administered empirically with great advantage. The liquor arsenicahs, or the combination of arsenic, iodine, and mercury that exists in Donovan’s solution, or that is contained in a pill composed of one-sixth of a grain of iodide of arsenic and one-tAvelfth of a grain of binio- dide of mercury, as recommended by A. T. Thomson, has appeared to me to be extremely beneficial, and in many cases certainly exercises a marked influence in arresting the disease. Whilst the patient is undergoing a course of these remedies, much attention requires to be paid to his diet, clothing, and general hygienic conditions. In the local treatment, the first thing that requires to be done is to subdue inflammatory action and in-itatiou, by leeches, emollient lotions, and opiate or henbane poultices. As this subsides, the progress of the disease will usually be an-ested for a time at least; and then, by the application of the nitric acid, chloride of zinc, or the acid nitrate of mercury, to the surfiice, a more healthy action may bo set up, and the sore be made to cicatrise. Great mischief, how-