539 FRACTURE OF BASE OF SKULL. save the brain from the direct effects of the blow. In one case that Avas under my care, the hydrocephalic child fell from the top of a house on to its head, and sustained a long fr-acture through the left side of the skull, but Avithout any scalp-AVOund. Shortly after the accident, a large soft fluctuating tumoim formed under the scalp opposite the line of fracture ; and, on this being tapped, about three ounces of liydi'ocophalic fluid Avere draAvn off. This operation Avas repeated, but the child died about ten days after the injury, Avith hemiplegia of the opposite side, and Avith coiiAmlsions. Fracture oe the Base oe the Skull.—The most serious, aud indeed a very commonly fatal form of fissure or simple fracture of the skull, is that Avhich extends through its Use. It may occur in three A\uys. 1. This injiuy is usually caused by direct vTolence, as by a fall or a IjIoaa' uj)on the vertex or side of the head, producing a fractime AA^hich extends fr-om the point struck across to the base of the skull, often running through the petrous portion of the temporal bone or into the foi’amen magnum. 2. It may also take place as the result of contrecoup, the bloAV being received on the forehead, back, or side of the head, and the jar of the bones expending its greatest vdolence on and fractiu’ing the base of the skull ; and 3, by the impact of the spine against the condyles of the occipital bone causing a fractiu’e that radiates from the foramen magnmn. This kind of fr’actime of the bone is AveU illustrated by the amiexed cuts (Figs. 241,242), taken from patients of mine Avho feU. from a height on the head. The effects aatII vary according to the character of the siu’face on !• ig. 241.—Si)lintcring of edges of tlie Fora, men irngniim ami Radiating Fi-acture o Base ol Skull from Fall on Verte.x Fig. 242.—Fracture of Base By Fall on A’ertex. Both Condyles broken oil and driven in. A'ei'tex was fissiu’ed. which the person falls. If hard, as on stone, the A^ertox AviU be smashed in, anc if there be fracture of the base, it Avill be occasioned in the fh’st Avay. If bnl. ground, the body will bo violently projected against the < > the skull, and this variety of fracture may be occasioned by the force AC impact; and it has occuiTcd as the consequence of alighting on the