790 TUMOURS. Haviland finds, Avitli regard to England, that cancer is most common in the cstern and north-M'Cstcru parts ot the kingdom, including Wales; and that geneially thioughout the more eleA'ated midland and southern districts it is not counnon. It is less frecpient on the older geological formations, towards the sources of rivers, and in dry well-drained districts. He points out, on the other hand, that the sites of the groat cancer-fields of England are the tertiary formations and the alluvial districts ; that cancer suiTounds the course of the groat rivers after their full formation, when they are passing through A'allcys and low-lying lands liable to floods and to the consequent accumulation of alluvial deposits. These districts are also the most densely populated. Hence it may be inferred that density of population favours the production of cancer, and that wherever social organisation is highly developed, there cancer becomes proportionately rife. But this view is not quite borne out by statistics. Thus we find that the development of cancer does not depend on mere popula- tion, as the mortality from cancer in Norwich and Great Yarmouth, com- paratively small towns, is to that in such great centres of population as Liver- pool and Manchester as 141 to 84, or nearly double ; that in Philadelphia it is to that in the much larger city of New York as 15 to 7, or more than double ; Avhile in Marylebone it is very far higher than in the capital of Pemisyh'ania. In these conclusions we must not, however, omit to take into account the increased tendency to hereditary transmission amongst a compai’atively settled population, such as that of the east of England. Is Cancer a Disease of Constitutional or of Ziocal Origin ? This cpiestion has led to much discussion among pathologists. There are at least three distinct theories with regard to the origin of cancer, a. It is a blood- disease. h. It is pmely local in its origin, c. If local in its origin, it can only be developed in a constitution that is fitted in some Avay for its formation; a fitting soil, in fact, is required for the cancer to germinate in. We will consider these views separately; and in so doing, I may observe that it will be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to separate the two questions as to the origin and the development of cancer from one another ; for, however essentially they may be distinct and separate, they blend themselves in such a discussion as this in an almost inextricable manner. a. That cancer is a blood-disease—a disease essentially dependent on a morbid state of the blood, is a Anew that has long been entertained by many. But in truth, this doctrine Avith regard to the origin of cancer has been made to include two distinct propositions ; the first being, that the blood itself is chai’ged Avdth the poison of cancer AA’hich is ready to burst forth or to s^wout out on any part of the body on the application of the necessary local irritation or disturbance. The second view is, that “blood-disease” and a “con- stitutional disease ” are synonymous and convertible terms. This is un- doubtedly an eiTor. It is quite possible to understand and to hold the a ieAv that the tissues of the frame are imbued Avith a cancerous tendency, Avithout having recom’se to the hypothesis that they deriA’e this from the blood. I he germinal membrane of the chick, as has been pointed out by Sir Y, Gull, takes on changes antecedently to, and independent of, the formation ol the blood. And so Ave may take it as possible that the tissues ot the bod} may inherently possess morbid or cancerous procliA'ities, independently ot the blood