890 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. although allied to and in parts presenting some of the characteristics of this disease, yet it approaches much more nearly the ordinary structure of granu- lation-tissue ; that in point of malignancy, indeed, it stands in the same relation to epithelioma that this latter form of cancer does to the more acti^'e variety of scin'hus ; that there is just enough of malignancy in it to prevent the attempts of cicatrisation from becoming effectual, but not enough to occasion rapid progress in local ulceration, or to give rise to constitutional infection. From sciiThus to epithelioma, from epithelioma to rodent ulcer, we thus find, ■with certain intermediate links of structural affinity, a progressive decadence in the force of maligmant action. Treatment.—In the treatment, constitutional remedies are of no use, and local means alone are to be relied on. They consist: 1, in the application of caustics ; 2, in excision of the part; 3, in a combination of these two methods. 1. The ulcer may best be destroyed by the application of the chloride of zinc paste to the whole of its surface. The best mode of applying this is to keep the chloride prepared for use by being mixed Avith two or three parts of flour. When wanted, a sufficient quantity of this powder should be made into a stiff paste, by the addition of a little water, and then spread over the smTace to be attacked by it, in a layer of about the thickness of a wafer ; this should be left on for two or three hoiu’s, and then removed, the sore being covered with i\, piece of water-dressing until the greyish slough that has been produced has separated, when the caustic may be re-applied as often as necessary. Besides the chloride of zinc, various other caustics maybe had recom’se to, each of which possesses some peculiar advantages. The nitric acid is useful, if the action to be produced be not required to be very deep ; for, as it hardens and coagulates the tissues to which it is applied, it does not consequently extend so far as the chloride. The acid nitrate of mercury presents the same advantage as the nitric acid and other fluid caustics—that it can be applied into the fissm’es and holloAvs of the part into which the more solid caustics do not penetrate, and is certainly useful in inducing a healthy action in the part, especially if there be a syphilitic taint. The potassa fusa and Vienna paste are useful, so far as their destructive properties are concerned, but are somewhat uncontrollable, and apt to spread. TTie most convenient mode of applying them is to cut in a piece of plaster a hole of the exact size and shape of the ulcer, to apply this around its borders, then to cover the sore with a layer of potassa cum calce, one line in thickness, and over this to lay on another piece of plaster. In this way a considerable amount of caustic action may be induced, Avhich will be hmited to the exact surface to which it has been apphed. Of all these escharotics, the preference is to be given to the chloride of zinc ; its action is more continuous and more controllable, and it appears to give a healthy stimulus to the subjacent struc- tures. 2. Excision of the whole of the idcer may sometimes be very advantageously practised, especially Avhen it is situated on the cheek, eyelid, eye, or forehead ; and the gap left may be filled in by some of those plastic processes that will be described Avhen Ave come to speak of the Plastic Surgery of the Face. 3. When the ulcer has attained a large size, Avhen it is complicated in its outline, and iiTegular in its depth, the question arises AA’hether siu’gery offeis any resource, or AA'hether the patient should be left slowly and miserably to die.