839 TREATMENT OF CHANCRE. 1,1 iisiii- lotions to any form of chancre, care should ahvays be taken keep •1 piece of hut soaked in the fluid constantly applied between the piepuce a ‘thi o-lans, and, in women, between the opposite labia ; for, unless this be done, the contact of the diseased and inflamed mucous surfaces with one anothei wi tend to keep up irritation and morbid action. _ Constitutional Treatment. - The Simple, Soft, or Encormted Chancre will readily heal under non-mercunal treatment ; but, contraiy to the opinion of many Sm-geons of the present day, I consider it much safer to put the patient upon a mild course of the gi-een iodide of mercury. The coustitutional treatment of Phagedeenic Chancre must be directed by creneral medical principles ; rest in bed, a mild diet, the administration of salines and opiates, in those cases in which there is inflammation and irritataon conjoined ; whilst in those in which there is a debilitated or cachectic condition, tonics, such as bark or iron, with good food and stimulants, may be required, together with opiates to allay pain and to procure rest. The preparations of iron, especially the ammonio-citrate and the tartrate, either alone 01 in com- bination udth sarsaparilla, are especially useful in these cases. In the phage- dcCiiic chancre mercury is seldom admissible, and does much harm if em- ployed to check any syphihtic taint that may be present with the sore. Indeed, it is the indiscriminate use of merciny in these cases that has, I believe, brought so much discredit upon this remedy in venereal diseases. But, although meremy is not generally admissible in phagedenic chancre, yet, in that form that is characterised by a white slough, it has been found useful by Wallace, and the utility of this practice I can confirm, having found it of service in some of the more rebellious varieties of this disease ; the drug must, howe'vei, be very cautiously administered, and in but small doses. In the Gangrenous or Slorighing Chancre, the constitutional powers of the patient will be found to be broken, and his general health depressed, so that depletory measures are seldom if ever required. The prepuce should be slit up, and free incisions should be made through the sloughing textimes, so as to take down all tension ; and as the fever subsides, or from the first if there be much asthenia, ammonia and bark, good nourishment, and abundant stimulants, will be required ; eventually the patient’s strength may be • supported by iron and quinine, and the instability of the system allayed by the free administration of opium ; the strong nitric acid should then be mopped freely over the parts, and afterwards charcoal or yeast poultices applied lintil the sloughs have sepa- rated. After the separation of the sloughs, the sore will usually present a clean appearance, the granulations cicatrising rapidly. It often happens that, when a portion only of the prepuce has been destroyed, the upper part being perforated, and the preputial orifice, with the imder part, hanging down mider the glans, the part thus projecting may be snipped off with advantage, and the organ thus moulded into a better shape. After a chancre has been healed in one or other of these ways, we must endeavour, by the general improvement of the patient’s health, to prevent or alleviate the manifestation of syphilis, should that malady have been contracted at the time of contagion. This is usually best done by putting him on a course of sarsaparilla with the mineral acids, and by scrupulous attention for some months to his habits of life. The syphilitic poison may linger for a great length