851 MERCURIAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. system. It is doubtless true that, after an ill-regulated mercurial course, cou- s'titutioiial sji)hilis of a very severe character may occasionally appear ; but this seems to me to be rather owing to mereury having boeii’improperly administered in constitutions that vnll not bear it, and in which, by the induction of a cachectic and depraved condition of the system, it favours the occurrence of some of the more severe forms of secondary syphilis, in the same way that any other lowering plan of treatment, or simple debility, might occasion them, but without the exercise of any specifically injiu'ious infiuence. Some of the worst forms of constitutional syphilis that I have seen, occun-ed in patients to whom no merciny had been adiniuistered, but in whom the syphilitic wus had been- ullowcd to exercise its influenee unchecked, save by the so-called simple treat- ment. I have seen the body covered by inmiense ecthymatous crusts and sores in one case, rupial uleers with destruction of the nose and palate in another, the worst kind of syphilitic cachexy with the tuberculo-pustular syphilide in 51 third, and extensive disease of the cranial bones and the clavicle in a foimth ; in none of which had any mercury been administered. But, though I cannot admit that the supporters of the simple or non-mer- •curial treatment of syphilis have brought forward any proof of its superiority •over the mercurial plan, and though my own experience has taught me that secondary symptoms occur after it with no less severity, and Avith far greater fi-equency than they do when mercury is carefully and judiciously administered, jet I am quite ready to allow that there are certain conditions of syphilis in which the non-mercinial treatment alone is admissible, the state of the constitution or the disease being such that mercury cannot be given in any form. In these cases such a treatment must be adopted, in accordance with ordinary medical principles, as will tend to subdue local action and improve the general condition. It is, indeed, especially in individuals of an unhealthy or strumous habit of body, or in those who are suffering from local visceral disease of some kind, and Avho are not affected by any indurated chancre, that this plan of treatment should be adopted. So also in those who, from the nature of their occupations, are subjected to much exposine to wet and cold, a mercurial course cannot Ido properly or safely administered, and the simple treatment is the most advisable plan that can be adopted. But even in such individuals meremj is often necessary to destroy the activity of the disease. In all other cases, I am certainly of opinion that merciny ought to be administered ; and this opinion appears to be entertained by the° most experienced Surgeons of the day in this country and abroad. The first question in connection with the employment of mercury in syphilis has reference to the principle on Avhich this remedy is administered. Whether mercury exercises a specific action over the poison of syphilis or not, has been much discussed, and is difficult of proof. I certainly think that it does act as u specific in syphilis, but that this specific action is much influenced by the •condition of the system, the habits of the patient, and the mode of admiii- ]stermg the remedy ; these conditions under certain circumstances tendino- to counteract or otherAvise to interfere with its operation. That mercury in many cases IS antagonistic to the syiihilitic poison, appears evident from the fact that m some instances hard ulcers will not heal unless it be given internally • fr-oni Its influence in speedily curing infantile syphilis and preA’cnting aftcr-manifes- 3 I 2