SPECIAL FRACTURES. 1 444 i the qiper fragment, so as to keep it in contact with the lower one; or, if this ' T l)e impracticable, to shorten the distance between them, and thus to lessen the length of the bond of union. With this view, an apparatus consisting of two broad bands of leathei^ buckled above and below the knee, and united by longitudinal stiaps, which can be shortened at pleasiu’e, is veiy commonly employed. Malgaigne, with the same view, constructed a pair of double hooks, which, being fixed into the two fragments, were drawn together by a screw ; and Eve, of Tennessee, accomplishes the same object by means of a ring passed round the fragments. All these means undoubtedly secure the object for which they are intended, and each may be found an useful adjunct to position in any given case. Malgaigne’s hooks are undoubtedly the most effectual; but the great objection to their use consists in the pain and imtation that are often induced by their penetration of the skin. Mr. Manning, late House Surgeon of University College Hospital, has made some very careful dissections of the arterial supply of the patella (Fig. 193). He ' finds that the vascular arch by which the upper fragment of a broken patella is ! supplied is situated at the very spot where the greatest amount of pressure is usually applied, and that not unff equently the internal superior and inferior articular arteries arise from a common trunk, which must in- evitably be compressed against the internal condyle of the femur, so that both fragments may thus be starved of blood ; and that this want of proper blood- supply has an additional tendency to prevent firm union. As an additional evidence of the compres- sion of the nutrient arteries of the patella by the ordi- nary apparatus, I may mention that Mr. Manning has j; found, on injecting a limb thus put up, that aU the || arteries were filled except those supplying the patella. jj In addition to this, Mr. Maiming is of opinion that, in j the ordinary treatment of fractured patella, the appa- j ratus in use does not retain the fragments sufficiently long in position, or control the muscles efficiently. With the view of remedying these inconveniences, Mr. Manning has ■ constructed the sphnt (Fig. 194), of which the following is a description. It consists of a wooden back-piece, a little wider than the knee- i joint, and long enough to reach fr’om the sole of the foot to the gluteal fold, and provided at the lower end with a foot-piece, A. At the junction of the middle and lower thirds is a transverse oblique sUt, B, one and a half inches long. Strips of strong plaster, two inches broad and , long enough to encircle the thigh and overlap by some inches, are attached i to a caheo band, C. The free end of this band is carried through the slit, and the straps of plaster are open on the upper part of the splint. A piece of wood, E, is attached to the lower part of the splint, and another piece ol coiTesponding size is attached to a loop at the end of the calico band, so^ that, when draivn down and the splint adjusted, these three pieces may be fi^ e oi six inches apart. Fig 1,93.—Arterial Supply of Patella (Maiming).