536 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. ciiid the gvouuci, when the sealp is torn oh and tlie head slips away, so escaj^ing tinthei injiny. In suppiuation oecniTiiig under the tendon of the occipito- fiontalis, the pns giavitates to the most dependent parts until arrested bv the attachments of the aponeurosis. These attachments are as follow. Posteriorly, the fleshy bellies are attached to the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and the space between them is filled up by dense fascia similarly attached. Laterally, the tendon is connected with the attollcns and attrahens aurem, to the mastoid process, and in front of the car to the zygoma. Pus gi’avitatino’ in this direction, therefore, forms a bag of fluid just above the zygoma, never ex- tending into the cheek. In front, the fleshy flbres of the muscle are blended with those of the corrugator supercihi and the orbicularis palpebrarum ; while in the middle line they are continued down over the nose into those of the pyramidalis nasi; and the pus will therefore collect in the upper eyelids, and in a pouch over the root of the nose. When the wound is too tightly closed, the discharges force their w'ay in all directions in the loose tissue under the tendon, giving rise to general pufl^^ S'welling of the head and diffused redness, often extending over the face ; and it is probable that this state of things has often been confounded with erysipelas, and has given rise to the idea that stitches in the scalp give rise to that disease. If simple erysipelas supervene, that disease will require to be treated iii accord- ance Avith ordinary surgical principles. So far as the woimd in the scalp is concerned, that must be thrown open, aU dressings remoA’ed, and, if matter form, a free outlet must be afforded to the pus. If diffuse celluhtis occur, free incisions must be made through the puffy and swollen scalp, and counter- openings for the discharge of pus and sloughs. When the skull itself is extensively denuded in consequence of the peri- cranium being stripped off the subjacent bone together Avith a flap of the scalp, it does not necessarily follow that necrosis and exfoliation of the exposed bone Avill occur. The flap must be laid doAvn on the denuded osseous smface, to Avliich it may possibly contract adhesion thi’ough the medium of granulations. Should it, however, slough, and a large portion of the skuU be even exposed, exfoliation of the outer table, though probable, does not necessarily happen; lor, in some cases, instead of exfohating, the exposed portion of the skull Avill inflame, plastic matter be throAvn out, and, gTanulations springing up, a cover- ing be formed to the bone. FRACTUBES OF THE SKULL. Injuries of the Bones of the Skull, especially Fracture, possess great interest, not so much from the lesion of the bone itself; as fr-om its fr-equent compheation AAuth injury of the brain and its membranes. This cerebral complication may cither be produced by direct injury, the fr-agments of the fractmed bone com- pressing or wounding the brain; or it may be the result of concussion or laceration of the brain by the same violence that causes the fracture. Bending in of the Cranial bones without Fracture is an accident that may occur in infants and young children, before the bones of the skull aic completely ossified. In scA’cral instances, the displaced bone lias been raise ) aspiration with an india-rubber sucker. But no harm comes of leaving the bone depressed, as it will generally rccoA'cr its proper level in time.