-32 GVN-BILOT ^Y0UND8. under my care in .the University College Hospital, t^vo years and a half after t )at e^ eut, of exlianstion resulting from a large lumbar abscess. On examina- tion it was found that the bullet, which had entered the left side of the chest and wounded the huig, traversed the diaphragm, notched the spleen, passed between the kidney and suprarenal body, and perforated the spine, was lying encapsuled on the right side of one of the vertebne, pressing upon the riglft renal vessels. Its irritation, and that of the sequestra fi-om the injured spine, iwoduced the abscess, from the effect of which the patient died. The apertm-e of exit always heals sooner than the aperture of entry; owing, probably, as Heudorfer obser\-es, to the bullet having lost its lateral action in its passage through the tissues, and merely cutting its way out. It is at the pohit, he remarks, where the lateral action is lost, that healing begins. ° II. Amputation is required in gun-shot injmies in two classes of cases of very dissimilar character. In cases where the limb has been wholly or in part carried away, or where it is evidently hopelessly shattered, the ragged, conical, and quivering stump, or the mangled remains of the limb, must be removed. In such cases there can be no doubt whatever in the mind of any Surgeon, as to the necessity for immediate amputation. But there is another class of cases, where amputation is also very commonly required, though, to a Siu’geon judging solely from the accidents of ci\il life, it might not at first appear necessary. These are, especially, cases of comjmmd (jun-shot fractures of tJie thigh, bulM-woumls of the Icnee-joint, and many similar iujrules of the leg. Injuries such as these, occurrirrg from other causes irr civil practice, might admit of arr attempt being made to sar'e the limb. But in military practice it is different: here the attempt to save the hmb irray be followed by such extreme local arrd constitutiorral disturbairce as to jeopardise seriously, arrd probably to destroy, the patierrt’s life. In such circumstances, conservatism is ofterr a fatal error, arrd to save life the limb must be sacrificed. The irrjruy for which an experienced army Surgeorr krrows that amputatioir is imperative, may look but trifiirrg, arrd to the patient himself, or to the cmhan. may appear to justify treatmerrt by less severe irrocedm-e ; but exirerience has incorrtestably showrr that iir amputatiorr is almost the oirly charree of safety in gam-shot wormds of the lower third of the thigh and of the leg, fr’actruing the borres, or irrjrrring the kiree-joint. Dupuytrerr states that, in rejecting amprr- tatiorr in comporrrrd fr'actrn’es of the extremities from grrrr-shot, we lose more lives tharr we save limbs ; and Hemrerr is of opiniorr that irr aU “ ambigarorrs cases ” amputation shordd be perforoned. The following is a specificatiorr of the chief conditions in which amputation is required. 1. I^Tien the whole limb is caraded off, a ragged stump merely being left; so, likewise, if the limb be completely crushed and disorgarrisecl, whether b) direct blow or by a “ wind-coirtusion,” though still left adherent ; or again, it the principal vessels be injured aud the soft parts caraded away, thorrgh the borre be irrtact, the limb carrrrot be preserved. 2. Amprrtatiorr is especially rrecessary iir some of the more serdorrs injrrrdes of the lower extremity; thus, if a bullet divide the femoral vessels or the