EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. 264 In the first tlcgTco of frost-bite that calls for the attention of the Surgeon . there is a feeling of stiffness, with complete numbness of the part that has been exposed to cold ; it is pale, m’th a bluish tint, and somewhat shrunken. In this state the ■\’itality of the part is not destroyed, but merely suspended. On the retiu'ii of circulation, in the affected part, a burning tingling pain is ! felt, the part becomes red, and shows signs of a tendency to inflammatory ■ action. Indeed, this appearance of urflammation, often accompanied by a j burning sensation, is probably the immediate consequence of extreme degrees of ! cold, as it is experienced on touching solidified carbonic acid or frozen mercury. 1 In the next degree, the vitality of the part is completely destroyed; all j sensibility and motion in it are lost, it becomes shrunken and livid; but i though its vitality may have been aimihilated by the inmiediate application of ; the cold, it is not imtil the part has become thawed that gangrene usually mani- I fests itself ; it then appears to do so by the violence of the reaction induced, the ■ part rapidly assmning a black colom, becoming dry, and separating eventually, 1 as aU other mortified parts do, by the formation of a line of ulceration I aroimd it. I The Constitutional Effects of a Ioav temperature need not detani us. It is I well known that, after exposure to severe or long-continued cold, a feeling of heaviness and stupor comes on, and gTadually creeps on to an overpowering tendency to sleep, which, if yielded to, terminates in coma, and a speedy, though , probably painless, death. Teeatment oe Fkost-Bite.—This consists in endeavouring to restore the 'Vitality of the frozen parts. In doing this the gveat danger is, that reaction i may rim on to so gveat a degree as to induce sloughing of the structures, the I vitality of which has aheady been seriously impaired. In order to prevent ' this accident, the temperatm-e must be elevated very gradually and mth ; extreme care. The patient should be placed in a cold room, without a fire, , any approach to which would certainly lead to the destruction of the irost- ' bitten members. These must then be gently nibbed with snow, or vfith cloths ■ dipped in cold water, and held between the hands of the person manipulating ; i as reaction comes on, they may be enveloped in flamiel or woollens, and a small !■: quantity of some warm liquid or spirit and water may be administered. In r this way sensibihty and motion will be gradually restored, often with much I bimiing and stinging pain, redness, and ^'esication of the part. If gangi’ene ! have come on, or if the reaction riui into sloughing, the sphacelated part, if of • small size, should be allowed to detach itself by the natiual process of separa- ' tion, which should be as httle interfered ivith as possible, the vitality of the I parts continuing at a low ebb, and extension of gangvene being readily induced, j If the gangrenous parts be of greater magnitude, amputation may be requiied. ; This should be done at the most convenient situation, as soon as the line of i separation has fully formed. ; If the person who has been exposed to cold be apparently dead, he must be put in a cold room, the tempcratiu’e of which must be very slonly laised. Friction, as just described, should be practised, and artificial respiration set 1 up. These means must be continued for a long time, even if no signs of litb appear : there being on record instances of recovery after scveial houis ot ! suspended animation. I