SPECIAL AMPUTA TIG NS. 82 jectiiig head of the astragalus and the articular surface of the os calcis should be sami oli. In more than one instance, I have found firm osseous anlcylosis existing in the line of articidations, so as to require the use of the saw for the separation of the anterior j>art of the foot. When this complication occurs, the tarsus should be treated as a Avholc, and sawn through, iiTespective of articula- tions, behind the limits of the disease. The result of this operation is ex- tremely fa's Durable, the patient, by the aid of a properly constructed boot, being able to 'ss alb, and even dance, ■with very little appearance of lameness. In some cases, where the muscles of the calf are very strong, and the calcaneum projects, the heel becomes di-a-svn up, and the end of the stump made to point down in such a way that the patient is rendered lame by walkmg on the anterior sharp edge of the calcaneiun, which imtates the flap. This condition is best removed by division of the tendo Achillis. Disarticulation of the Foot at the Ankle-joint was first reduced by Syme to a regular operation. By its performance amputation of the leg may often be avoided, the patient being left -ssuth an exceed- ingly useful stump, which, as its covering is in- geniously taken from the heel, constitutes an excellent basis of support. Syme’s words as to the direction of the incision are : “ The foot being held at a right angle to the leg, the point of the knife is introduced immediately below the malleolar lu’ojection of the fibula, rather nearer its ijosterior than anterior edge, and then carried across the bone, slightly inclining back- wards, to the iimer side of the ankle, where it terminates at the point exactly opiJOsUe its. commencement ” (that is, a little below and behind the internal malleolus). “ The extremi- ties of the incision thus formed are then jouied by another passmg in front of the joint. The operator next proceeds to detach the flap from the bone” (Fig. 47). The object of carrying- the incision so far back is, that the dissection of the flap may commence from the most pro- minent point of the plantar surface of the os calcis, that is to say, from the anterior paid of the two tuberosities of that bone. Every eighth of an inch in front of this point increases thp difficulty of raising the flap. The lateral ligaments should be touched Avith the point of the bistoiuy, and the tendo Achillis dn'ided by pressing the foot forcibly downwards and cutting from before backAvards. By twisting and dissecting at the same time the os calcis is completely separated ft’om its soft attachments, and the foot remoAcd(Fig. 4h); the Wo malleoli must then be saAAui off (Fig. 50), the arteries tied, and the flaj) brought up. A Avell-formed rounded stump Avill thus be left. In performing this operation, care must be taken that no button-hole apei tines be made through the posterior part of the heel flap. This may commonly ic Fig. 47. —Syine’s Ainiiutiition of tlie Foot. Clearing the Os Calcis.