EXCISION OF CANCER. ^°S mammary tummm, or some similar gr-owtlr which, as every one knows, whll fl is'Tnneiir under tliis kind of treatment. But if compression cannot be shown c^'er to have cured a cancel, can i no retard’thc proo'ress of this disease, or relieve the snlferings attendant upon it. I believe that in some cases it may certainly do both, though m others it is as unquestionably injurious. It appears occasionally to retard the growth of the tumour when applied in the early stage, simply by preventing- hs expansion, and perhaps by compressing its nutrient vessels, and so dimmishmg^the supply of blood sent to it, and by causing absorption of smrounding inflammatory infiltration ; in these cases likewise it relieves for a time the pain by lessening the tm-o-escence of the part. In other cases, however, I have known it to act injm-iously by pressing out and diffusing the tumour more widely, appearing to increase the tendency to implication of neighbouring parts, and occasioning o-reat suffering. When the tumoiu' is ulcerated, or if the skin covering it be Tnflamcd, prcssiu-e cannot be employed with any advantage ; and most com- monly iiritable sensitive patients cannot support the constriction of the chest that it necessitates. i, i Excision.—With regard to the question of removing cancers by the knife, much difference of opinion exists amongst Sm-geons ; for, though aU deprecate indiscriminate recoiu’se to this means, some go so far as to dispute the propriety of ever operating for this disease, whilst others would restrict the operation to certain cases of a favourable character. These divergences are necessarfly of considerable importance, and require attentive examination. The objections that have been urged against the general propriety of operating in cases of cancer, do not apply so much to the operation itself, the risk attending which is not greater than that of other operations of similai magnitude, but are rather based on the supposition that cancer is originaUy a constitutional affection, and that the patient is consequently liable to speedily suffer from a return of the disease, so that an operation that is at least unnecessary wiU have been performed. This objection, however, as has already been remarked, equally applies to all other means of local removal, as by caustics or compression, as well as to extirpation by the knife ; and, if cai-ried to its logical conclusion, must necessarily preclude any attempt at removal, by any means, of the local disease. That this objection, so far as the liability to rctiun of the cancerous disease after operation is concerned, is to some degree a vahd one cannot be gainsaid ; the experience of all Surgeons tending to establish the fact, that the majority of patients operated upon for cancer die eventually, and usually within a limited time, from a reciuTence of the disease. Thus, A. Cooper states, that in only nine or ten cases out of a hundred did the disease not return in three years ; and Brodie has found that it generally proves fatal in two or three years after the operation. After removal of the original cancerous tumoiu-, the disease may return in one of three situations, viz. : in the cicatrix ; in the neighboiuing lymphatic glands, with or ivithout implication of the cicatrix ; or in internal organs. The mode of recurrence in these different parts is obvious enough. When the disease returns in the cicatrix, it is owing to local causes ; either to the original cancer having been imperfectly removed, when recurrence Avill take place before the wound is healed, or very shortly after this event; or to