REDUCTION OF DISLOCATION OF IIIP-JOINT. 499 of these accidents to look upon them as essentially the same ; the displacement in both cases being upwards and backwards, but in dificrent instances partaking more of one or other direction. This dislocation may therefore be described as the Ilio-sciatic; it corresponds with Bigelow’s first and second classes of regular dislocation. 2. Dislocation Downwards.—J^’ext in order of frequency to the ilio-sciatic dislocation is the Th3rroid, in which the head of the bone is thrown downwards on the obturator foramen (Fig. 225). The downward dislocations include also those on the perimeum and beneath the acetabulum. 3. Dislocation Upwards.—In the Pnbic variety, the head of the bone is thrown upward on the pubic bone (Fig. 226). In a more rare variety of upward dislocation, it may lie below the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. Thus it -will be seen that, in whatever direction the displacement occiu’S, the head of the bone has a tendency to sink into some cavity or depression, or to lie upon one of the osseous sm-faces in the neighboiu’hood of the aceta- bulum. It is also probable that the hip can be partially dislocated. In the Reduction of dislocation of the hip-joint, two methods may be employed. The first, or the old method, consists in making extension by means of forcible traction by pulleys or othermse in the direction of the axis of the displacement of the limb, and overcoming, by main force, any obstacle arising fr’om muscular contraction or ligamentous resistance. The other, or modem method, consists in the employment of manipulcbUon, by which is meant the avoidance of aU force, the relaxation of the muscular structures by flexion, and the disentanglement of the head of the bone from any ligamentous obstacle by impressing on it various rotatory move- ments, each adapted to the particular case. Originally advocated by Nathan Smith in 1831, extended by Eeid of Eochester (U. S. A.) in 1851, this method has now in America, and veiy commonly in this country, superseded the forcible extension of Sir A. Cooper and the older Surgeons in the reduction of all recent dislocations of the hip. In those of old standing, extension by means of the pulley is still required, as by manipulation sufficient force caimot be exerted^ to overcome those secondary causes of resistance that become developed in such cases. There is a third method—that by angular extension, invented by Ponteau •, but, as this is less effective than either of the others, and nevei, I belie’^e, now employed, its consideration need not detain us. I shall desciibe each method of reduction in connection with each of the principal fonns of dislocation of the hip. Upwards and Backwards, or Ilio-sciatic. If the head of the bone rest upon the dorsum of the Ilium (Fig. 223), the hip will be found 0 e a good deal distorted, the gluteal region being somewhat prominent, and e upper part of the thigh enlarged, in consequence of the approximation of e musciflar attachments, so as to give an appearance of widening to the hip. ^6 felt in its new situation, more especially on aing the limb; the trochanter is less prominent than natural, usually png c ose against the brim of the acetabulum, and being turned forwards • there .sharked shortening, varying from one to two imhes in sol latV sarilv^? inches. The amount of shortening will neces- y epend upon the distance to which the head of the bone is thrown K K 2