88i I^^GROWING OF THE NAIL. Disisases of the Nails.—The nails may become diseased, by undeigiowing structural changes, by haring their matrix inflamed, or by growing into the soft tissues of the toes. In some broken states of health, and especially in persons suffering from squamous disease of the skin, the nails occasionally become blackish or dark- brm\Ti in colour, are rugged, dry, and cracked, scaling off, as it were, without any apparent affection of the matrix. This condition, of which I have seen several instances, is best cimed by a course of alteratives and sarsaparilla, the disease yielding as the general health becomes improved. OxYCHiA is a disease of the nails dependent on inflammation of the matrix ; it occin’s under two forms, the simpU and the specific. In Simple Onychia there are redness, heat, and swelling, usually on one side of the nail, in the angle of the tissue in which it is implanted ; there is discharge of pus, and the nail gradually loosens, becomes dark-coloured, some- what shrivelled, aud may eventually be thrown off, a new nail making its appearance below, Avhich commonly assumes a somewhat thickened and rugged shape. This disease usually results from slight degrees of violence, as the running of thorns and splinters into the fingers. The Treatment consists in subduing inflammation by local antiphlogistics, poulticing, &c., aud watching the growth of the new nail, which may be some- times usefully directed by the application of a layer of wax. Specific Onychia is a more serious affection, and is often dependent on injuries inflicted on the finger in a syphilitic or cachectic condition of the system. In it a dusky-red or livid inflammation takes place at the sides or root of the nail; ulceration is set up, accompanied by the discharge of sanious and very fetid pus ; and large loose granulations spring up at its root and sides, so that the end of the toe or finger that is affected (and this is most commonly either the great toe, the thumb, or the index finger) becomes gveatly enlarged and bulbous in shape. The nail then shrivels, becomes brown or black, and peels off in strips (Tig. 322) ; after its separation, thick epidermic masses, forming abortive attempts at the production of a new nail, are deposited at the base and sides. In the Treatment, both local and constitutional means are requmed. The first and most essential point is to remove the nail, either in whole or part, as it acts as a foreign body, and prevents the healing of the surface from which it springs : the ulcer may then be treated with iodoform or well rubbed with the nitrate of silver, and dressed with black wash. Colles recommends fumigating it with a mercurial candle, made by melting a drachm of cinnabar and two ounces of white wax together. The consHhitional treat- ment consists of means calculated to improve the general health ; with this ■view Sir A. Cooper recommends calomel and opium. I have generally found bichloride of mercury, with sarsaparilla or cinchema, the most useful remedy. IxGHOwixa OP THE Nail is an extremely painful and troublesome affection, principally occurring in the great toe, and brought about by wearing pointed shoes, by which the sides of tlie soft part of the toe are pressed upon and VOL. I. 3 L