120 I^'FLA2{MATI0N. The pulse soon becomes sharp and small; there are hig'h delirium of a furious kind, wildness of eye, and heat of head. But these symjjtoms soon give way to signs of debility and exhaustion, and death takes place from coma and cerebral irritation. of Acute Inflajeviatiox.—There are two ivays in which inflammation may terminate without leading any traces of its presence in the part atfccted : these are by—1. Resolution, and 2. Metastasis. 1. The termination by Resolution simply means a retuni to health. The pain and heat first subside, the swelling lessens, and lastly the redness passes away: the constitutioaial symptoms also disappear. With regard to the more intimate changes in the part itself, it uill be seen that the dilated vessels contract, and the stagnant masses of blood-discs are pushed on and broken up by streams finding their ivay into and against them. Absoiption, which had been held in check clming the continuance of inflammation, comes into play and removes the extravasated matters ; and secretion becomes more active, and helps to unload the part. Resolution may in this way be complete ; or it may go on to a certain point and then stop, lea'sing one or other of the effects that will immediately be mentioned. 2. By Metastasis is meant a change in the seat of the inflammation—its sudden and complete disappearance fr’om one part and appearance in another. This is of extremely rare occun-ence ; it is occasionally seen, however, as in the inflammation of the testis that suddenly supervenes on the disappearance of a gonorrhccal discharge. Besides these true terminations, inflammation commonly passes from the ordinary and primary condition into some other form of the disease. Thus, for instance, the acute disease may merge into the chronic form ; if plastic matter or lymph be throAvn out, adhesive inflammation is said to have occurred ; when pus is produced, we have su-pj^wative inflammation ; when an ulcer forms, ukeixitive inflammation is said to have set in ; and when the inflammatory action is of such intensity as to cause the death of the part affected, gangrenous inflammation has occurred. These different conditions. "S'ary so widely fr’om each other, as to require separate and distinct consideration. Extension.—When inflanunation has once been set up in a part, it may extend to other portions of the system in four distinct ways. 1. Local extension may occm by the inflammation spreading along the tissue affected in its continuity; as, for instance, along the skin, areolar tissue, or mucous membrane. 2. Inflanmiation may also spread by contiguity of tissue, passing from one affected structure to an adjacent healthy one ; thus we see the opposite surfaces of an inflamed joint involved in disease at opposed points. In such cases, the part first inflamed probably acts as an irritant to that Avith Avhich it comes into contact, and in this way induces inflammation in the latter. 3. Inflanunation may extend to distant parts through the mcdiimi of the blood ; this fluid lieing altered and depraA'cd, and increasing the liability to inflammation in other parts, as in some of the erratic forms of erysipelas. Or the blood may coiiA'cy the products of inflammation to a distance, as in })hlebitis, and thus giA'e rise to numerous centres of inflammation.