9 6 SPECIA L A MP UTA TIO NS. inortHlity climinislicd ; the Il^edullal7 canal of tlic femnr not being opened, there will be less likelihood of osteomyelitis ; fewer ligatures will be required, Jind, if a long posterior flap have been made, these may be brought out through an opening made in the centre of it, as Blaiidiu recommends; and lastly, a longei stimip will be left, the movements of Avhich Avill be more under the control of the patient than those of a shorter one, owing to the proper muscles of the femiu not being dndded, and all the movements of that bone being thus preserved in their integrity. There is a point of practice that I have Fig. 01.—Ainimtatioii tlirougli tlie Condyles—a modiQed circular method. found useful in this amputation; l iz. to round off with the saw the sharp edge left on the condyle after the removal of its cartilaginous surface, as this otherunse may press injuriously upon the flap. In the after-treatment, the patella, if present, shoidd be kept in its place by a strip of plaster weU brought j down above it; and care must be taken that a collection of pus do not foim j between it and the flat iiitercondyloid sm’face of the femm-. This may he i aA^oided by the insertion of a di-ainage-tube at the time of the operation, and , by subsequently syringing and carefully di-essing the stump. ; Results of Amputation through the Knee-joint or Condyles of the Femur.—So far as life is concerned, these operations have been succcssfuL ' In the Avar of the American rebellion, of 132 cases, G4 died, giA'iiig a mortality of 48'4 per cent. Of these 40 Averc primary amputations ; the deaths among Avhich Avere l(i, or 22'6 per cent. Brinton giA'es 02 cases of amputation through the knee for disease, Avith 14 deaths, or 32‘0 jier cent. The statistics of amputation through the condyles of the femur liaA'e not been made out. These amputations present three great advantages over those higher up. I. As the medullaiy canal of the femur is not opened, the patient is saved all that