124 INF LA 2 mA TIO N. AVhen a part, hai'ing once been the seat of inflammation, has been left in a weakened or impaired state, it will be more liable to the occmTcncc of a second attack of inflammation, having less resisting power ; hence, also, snbsecpient attacks are induced by less active exciting causes than were required at first to. call the disease into action ; we see this in the inflammatory aifections of eyes and joints. Then, again,^ a tendency to local congestion or stasis will dispose to inflammation, very slight overstimnlation inducing the disease when the A-essels of the part are already overloaded, and the reparative power impaii-ed this is often seen in the case of varicose veins, the congestion of the skin readily running into inflammation. Constitutional Predisposing Causes.—It is of gneat consequence to as- certain whether any constitutional predisposition to inflammation exists ; and if so, what its precise natme is ; for the progxess of the local affection will in a great measure be dependent on the amonnt of constitutional predisposition. The constitutional predisposing causes are of two kinds. 1. Inflammation is predisposed to by a state of general overstimulation of the vascular and nervous systems. This condition may be hereditary, as in persons of the sanguine temperament, or it may be dependent on youth or sex ; or'it may be acquired by habi trial indidgence at table, the induction of plethora and gout girdirg rise to a habit of body that is peculiarly favourable to the ocerm- rerice of inflammation. Inflanmrations occruTiug in this habit of body are usually sthenic, though not unfrequently accompanied, in the case of persons accustomed to alcoholic stimrdants, by irritative fever. 2. A directly oirposite condition of the system equally disposes the person to. inflammatory attacks. Thus a state of vascular and nervous de^vession, by lessening the reactive power of the constitution, causing a loss of tone in the- vascular system with ready tendency to congestion of the vessels, and to stag- nation of blood, disposes to inflammation. In this way inflammatory actions are esjrecially apt to occur in scrofulous patients, in whom the general powers are enfeebled; and in such individuals they occm’ rnider the influence of exciting causes less in degree than those which affect persons in whom nutri- tion is more actively canied on. Here inflammation usually assumes the passive, congestive, or asthenic fonns. Exciting Causes.—These are very numerous and simple in their action. . Commonly, mechanical injuries are those that occasiorr surgical iuflammatiorrs ; which are, irrdeed, set rrp by rratrue as the means of repairing the effects of the injury. Chemical agencies, as the application of caustics and undue extremes of heat and cold, are also amongst the most common exciting causes. The applica- tion of the virus of certain morVul foisons, as of syi:>hilis and the malignant pustrde, directly occasions it. And lastly, certain states of the Hood give rise to it, as wo observe in those conditions of the system in which boils, car- buncles, &c., are iwoduced. Inflanmiation Avill often, though not necessarily, vary greatly in character according as it arises from a constitutional or a traumatic cause. When an inflammation of an organ, as of the lung, arises fr’om an idiopathic or consti- tutional cause, a predisposition must previously have existed in the system, leading, under the influence of slight -s'eriations of external circumstances, as