86i S YPIIILITIC SKIN-A FFEOT 10NS. other untoward consequences Avhich have heen ohseiwed to follow it. The in-ecise value of the subcutaneous injection of merciuyin syphilis has, it seems, vet to bo determined. Sigmund believes it to be most useful in the constitu- tional forms of the disease affecting the more superficial structures and the- osseous, muscular, and fibrous tissues. ■Whatever plan of treatment is adopted, it should bo earned out for a sufficient length of time ; great evil often resulting by intercepting it too suddenly, and being contented with the removal of the local mischief, whilst the disease is left firmly seated in the constitution. Local Secondary Affections.—We shall next proceed to describe the- character and treatment of the different local forms in which constitutional syiihilis manifests itself. These may be considered as they affect different tissues and organs, and require separate examination, according to the part that is influenced by them. We shall consider them as affecting the skin; the mucous membranes of the mouth, nose, tongue, palate, and laiynx ; the eye, bones, testes, and muscles. 1. Syphilitic Affections of the Skin.—Syphilo-dermata or Syphilidos present various modifications of appearance, corresponding veiy closely to the different groups of idiopathic cutaneous diseases; thus we find exanthematous, papular, squamous, vesicular, pustular, and tubercular syphilitic affections of the skin, with various ulcers and growths. These differ from the corresponding" simple cutaneous diseases, in their redness being more dusky or coppery, in leaving stains of a bromiish or purplish hue, in their outhne being circnlar, and in their crusts or scabs being dark, blackish, thickj and rugged-looking. Besides this, syphilis modifies materially the general character of the cuticle, causing it to assume a yellow or earthy tint, and to be rough or powdery. The worst forms of these affections are commonly met wdth on the face and more exposed parts of the body. Syphilitic skin-diseases arrange themselves imder the following groups. The Roseola consists of blotches of a reddish-brown or coppery tint, which becomes more distinct as the redness declines ; they vary in size from small circular spots to large and diffused patches. These are usually first observed about the abdomen, and commonly occur early in the disease, often before the- primary sore is healed. Syphihtic roseola usually occurs in patients who have had chancrous excoriation, and is very frequently accompanied by an erythe- matous condition of the throat. The Squamous syphilidc occurs in small patches of an iiTegular shape, of a red and somewhat coiipery colour, which are commonly covered with thin filmy scales. In many instances the patches are, however, quite smooth, so as to have a glazed and ahnost shining look. They are usually situated on the inside of the arms and thigh, often on the scrotum and penis, even occiUTino- on the glans. They also frequently appear on the palms and soles, where deep fissures and cracks are mot with. About the lips, the squamous syphilide o-iyes rise to deep and troublesome fissures. It is often associated with a deeii’and excavated ulcer of the tonsils, with inflammation of the iris, and not uncom- monly with disease of the periosteum and bones, and ahnost invariably follows the indurated chancre. Associated with this condition are large brown patches or maculai, which occur on various parts of the body.