POISONED WOUNDS. 240 CHAPTEE XI. POISONED WOUNDS. A VERY important variety of woimcl is that in which a poison is introduced. The most serious poisoned wounds are those inflicted by the stings of insects, the bites of snakes or of rabid animals, and injmics received in dissection. BTINGS OF INSECTS. Stings of Insects, as of bees, wasps, mosquitoes, gnats, &c., though painful, seldom j)roduce any serious inconvenience ; yet occasionally they may 'do so, and may even prove fatal, by inducing erysipelas in some imhealthy ■constitutions, or by giving rise to intense in'itation from the multiplicity of the stings, as when bees in great nimrbers swarm upon and sting a person ; or they may be dangerous in consequence of the natine of the part that is stung, ns the eye, or the interior of the mouth, or pharynx, as has happened from swallowing a bee in a piece of honeycomb. Mosquito-bites are pecuharly irritating, and when numerous poison the blood, producing nervous depression nnd great febrile irritation. The venom of a mosquito is very powerful, weight for weight probably more so than that of the rattle-snake. The bites ■of some insects, as scorpions, or the tarantula in Italy, give rise to more serious and even fatal distmbance. A pecuhar tinin of nervous phenomena is said to follow the bite of the tarantula, hence called “ tarantismus ; ” a disease that is generally stated to be peculiarly influenced by music, though this has been denied by Gozzo. Treatment.—In the treatment of stings of insects the appheation of ■cooling lotions, of a cold poultice, or rubbing the pai-t with ohve-oil, will be found the most useful means of allaying initation. In some cases, more ■especially in mosquito-bites, touching the part stung •with strong hquor ammonias or potassas gives relief, if applied at once. In the case of stings fr’om wasps or bees, it should be ascertained that the sting has not been left in the wound. If so, it must be extracted, and the alkah ajsplied. SNAKE-BITES. Snake-bites are seldom fatal in England ; venomous reptiles, such as the •viper and adder, not possessing a sufficiently energetic poison to destroy a healthy adult, though they might possibly kill a child or a very weak and delicate person. These reptiles are said to be most active in warm weather and dining the season of procreation. Their hites are of coinse most dano-erous if inflicted through a vein or glandular part, or near the centre ot the circulation, or about the neck and face. In tropical comitnes the bite of the rattle-snake, of the cobra di capello, the puff-adder, or the tobacco-pipe snake, is often fatal. The number of persons who are annually killed by snake-bites in those parts of India alone from which retimis are prociinffile amoimts to about 12,000, or about 1 m every 5000 of the inhabitants ; and it occasionally happens even in this coimtry,that the Sm-geon has an opportunity of seeing wounds inflicted by these fearful reptiles in menageries, ihiis.