757 MYXOMA OR MUCOUS TUMOUR. .rcncous intercellular substance, in Avhicb vessels can be clearly ^ It is seldom, liou-evcr, that this structure is found as pure as tins. In additio to ho stellate cells, u..mcro..s small round cells (Fig. 28C) arc usually present Lcfthc intei-ccllnlar substance is in most eases traversed by delicate bundles of Fi" 2S5.—:Mvxomn, from a large tumnm- in the ° skin of the back (1S8 iliam.) It will be noticed that even the round cells are con- nected with those, wliich are more branched. Fi" 280.—Mucous Polyims of Mo.se (18S ° diam.) The round cells vai-y in size and are distinct from the branched ones. The branched cells are reiy ir- regular, and the' matrix somewhat fibrous. fibrous tissue, sometimes containing yeUo'W elastic fibres. The stellate cells may be smaUer in some cases than in others. The peculiar featiue of the growth is the mucous intercellular substance, and wdthout this being present no tumour should be called a myxoma. Frequently tissue agreeing in all respects with that of a pure myxoma is found mixed with that of sarcoma, enchondroma, or adenoma. These tumours are spoken of as myxo-sarcomata, myxo-chondromata, &c. Myxo-chondroma, frequently containing portions of adenoma, forms the ordinary parotid tumoiu’. Occasionally a development of true fat-cells may take place in the central parts of a myxoma, thus indicating, as Virchow thinks, the relation of these tumoiu’S to embryonic fat. A few years ago I saw in consultation a case of an enormous abdominal tumour, which proved on examination after death to be a pure myxoma, weighing at least thirty pounds, the central parts of which contained an abundance of true adipose tissue. Such tumoiu’s as these have been spoken of as myxo-lipomata. Myxo- mata may occur in any part of the body. When superficial they often assimic a poljqioid form, as in the ordinary mucous polypus of the nose (Fig. 280). Myxo- mata are not unfrequent in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in nerves they foiTii one variety of false neiuoma, and they are occasionally met with in glands. IMyxomata are usually absolutely non-maliguant, but occasionally they recur locally after removal. If left untreated, they may cause death by ulceration of the skin taking place OA'er them, leading to sloughing of the tumour with pro- fuse haemorrhage aud foul discharge. Occasionally they may prove fatal from pressure on important organs, as in the case of the abdominal tumour above mentioned. The Treatment consists in the remo'^’al of the growth whencA'er an operation is possible.