THROMBOSIS. 923 tlie passing blood, wliioh thus tends to become deposited on and to be incor- porated wtli it. The mass gi’ows by a process of aggregation until the whole of the vessel is filled for a distance of one, two, or more inches by this plug or thrombus—partly composed of exudative material, partly of coagulated blood. But there is another form of the disease, the Embolic, in which the vein becomes plugged in a different manner. In these cases, blood charged with minute granular embola, the result, possibly, of the disintegration of arterial thrombi (p. 721)', circulates through the body, and, passing through the capil- laries, arrives at last at some position in the venous system where, favoured by anatomical arrangement, previous disease of the coats of the vessel, or acci- dental constriction from position of a limb or part, the embolon separates itself from the circulating blood and becomes deposited on the inner surface of the vein, where it, in its turn, forms the nucleus of a thrombus, by which the vessel is speedily plugged. This thrombus may become broken up and dis- iutegxated. Embola may become detached from it, and, passing up to the right ventricle, may be driven into the pulmonary artery by the cardiac con- tractions, and, according as they obstruct its larger or its smaller divisions, may be the cause of sudden death or of some of those forms of intrapulmonic hsemon-hage that nsually go by the name of “ pulmonary apoplexy.” Thus embola formed in and starting from the left cavities of the heart, becoming disintegrated, may pass through the capiUai'ies into the veins, there to be de- posited, forming thi’ombi which, in their turn breaking up, yield fresh embola that may be productive of fatal plugging of the pulmonary artery, the plug making the whole of the circuit of the vascular system before it becomes de- structive to life. These changes may occur in any vein, external or internal, and we often find them associated—the same vessel containing a mixtime of coagulum and fibrine. The extent of siu’face which the inflammation may occupy varies fr'om that of a small vessel a few inches in length, to the trunk and branches of one of the largest veins in the body. The obstruction of the \ein, which is the common result of these forms of the disease, may continue permanently; the plug becoming incorporated with its coats, and gradually undergoing flbro-cellular degeneration, so that the vein is converted into an impervious cord. In other cases, a channel eventually forms through the axis of this obstructing clot, allowing the cu’culation through the vein to be re-established in a more or less imperfect manner. If the thrombosis and resulting embohsm be of a septic character, pyiemia and multiple abscesses, as has been fully described in Chapter XXXIII, will result. The difference between the plastic and the septic embolon is this, that the flrst^ leads to fibrinous deposits in the veins and internal organs, the effects of which are purely local, the other to disintegration of blood-clot, to metastatic abscesses, and pyjemia. S\]m.ptoms.—\xy phlebitis, the action is usually localised, and limited. Com- monly ^e disease is idiopathic, but it may arise from traumatic causes, and not unfrequently is subacute. IVhen traumatic, it may occur in any vein that IS wounded ; but, when idiopathic, it commonly occurs in those situated in the calf or leg, especially if they be varicose. The inflamed vein becomes hard, swollen, knobbed, and painful, the knobs constituting distinct enlargements