INJURIES OF THE GULLET. <522 these cases, an expanding probang will be found useful. After it has l:)ecn removed, the patient will experience for some time a priclcing sensation, as if it wei’e still fixed. If the impacted body have passed low down into the oesophagus, the Surgeon must deal with it according to its nature. If it be smooth and soft, as a piece of meat for instance, it may be pushed domr into the throat by the gentle pressure of the probang. If, however, it be rough, hard, or sharp-pointed, as a piece of earthenware, or bone, or a metallic plate, with false teeth attached, such a procedure would certainly cause perforation of the oesophagus, and serious mischief to the parts around ; in these circumstances, therefore, an attempt at extraction should be made by means of long slightly curved forceps, constructed for the purpose. The foreign body occasionally becomes so firmly impacted in the pharynx or oesophagus, that the employment of any degree of force for extracting it would be attended vdth danger of perforating the oesophagus or transfixing the large vessels of the neck; in these circumstances it may become necessary to open the tube and thus remove it. The operation of Pharyngotomy or <Esoph.agotoniy is seldom called for; if required, it may be performed by making an incision about four inches in length along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid muscle, the oesophagus naturally cimdng somewhat towards the left side. The dissection must then be carried with great caution between the carotid sheath and the larynx and trachea in a direction backwards, the emo-hyoid muscle having been divided in order to afford room. Care must be taken in this deep dissection not to wound either of the thyroid arteries, more cspeci^illy the inferior one, which -will be endangered by canying the incisions too low. When the pharynx or the oesophagus has been reached, a sound or catheter should be passed through the mouth into this cavity, and pushed forwards so that its point may cause the walls to project, and thus serve as a guide to the Siugeon. This must then be cut upon, and the apertiue thus made in the gullet enlarged, by means of a probe-pointed bistoiuy, to a suffi- cient size to allow the removal of the extraneous substance. Hard and perfectly indigestible foreign bodies, such as artificial teeth, are sometimes accidentally swallowed dining sleep or an epileptic fit, and, passmg through the pharynx and oesophagus, di-op into the stomach. In these circum- stances, there are two coinses open to the Singeon ; either to endeavour to extract the foreign substance, or to leave it, and allow it to pass, if possible, per anum. I think that the line of practice to be followed should depend on whether the foreign body produce irritation in the stomach or not. If it irritate, giving rise to continued efforts at vomiting, it should, if possible, be extracted. In order to do this, an ivory-baUed probang should ffi-st be passed in to ascertain the situation of the foreign body. After this has been heard and felt, we may adopt the plan successfuUy employed by Little—who removed a hooked plate containing five ai-tificial teeth from the stomach of a woman— of introducing a ‘‘coin-catcher” so as to search for, secure, and then extract it. In doim^ this, there is of course a gveat probability that the mass will be draivn up sideways; and that it may, if broad, hitch in the pharynx, whence it must be detached as weU as the Surgeon can manage by a judicious combination of force and skill. Should the foreign body be small, as a coin, or even angular and sharp-pointed, as a plate mth artificial teeth, and should it not irritate