SECONDARY ASPHYXIA. 619 of air introduced need not be large ; for, by the law of the diffusion of gases, if fresh air be only introduced into the larger divisions of the bronchi, it will rapidly and with certainty find its way into the ultimate ramifications of these tubes. This last means of inflation has the additional advantage of Fig. 260.—Silvester’s Method—Expiration. resembling closely the natimal process of respiration, which is one of expansion from without inwards, and not, as when the mouth or bellows are used, of pressiu’e from within outwards. In one case the Imigs are, as it were, drawn outwards, the air merely rushing in to fill uj) the vacuum that would otherwise be produced within the thorax by the expansion of its parietes ; in the other they are forcibly pressed up from mthin, and hence there is a danger of rupture of the air-cells. Inflation of the Lungs with Oxygen Gas is likely to be of great service in extreme cases of asphyxia. I have found by experiment that the contractions of the heart can be excited by inflating the lungs with this gas, when the introduction of atmospheric air fails in doing so ; and there are cases on record in which resuscitation was effected by inflating the lungs with oxygen, when in all pro- babihty it could not have been effected ivith any other means. In my Essay on “Asphyxia” will be found a case of resuscitation, in which oxygen was suc- cessfrdly administered by Weeks after the asphyxia had continued thi’ce- fiuarters of an hour. Whatever means of resuscitation are adopted, they should be continued for at least three or four hours, even though no signs of life show themselves ; and after ordinaiy respiration has been re-established, the patient should be kept quiet in bed for some hours. The danger of the supoiwention of Secondary Asphyxia after recovery has apparently taken place is much increased, and indeed is usually brought about, ^y some effort on the part of the patient that tends to embarrass the partially restored action of the heart and lungs. The patient, being to all appearances