INFLAMMA TION. ii6 at 92° Palir. before inflammation had been excited in it, andat98j° after it had been set np. In a case of extravasation of urine, with severe inflammation, I found the temperature in the incision made in the perinasum 98° Fahr. Simon and Dr. Edmund Montgomery, from experiments with a thermo-electric apparatus, have found : “ 1. That the arterial blood supplied to an inflamed limb is less warm than the focus of inflammation itself ; 2. That the venous blood retuiming fr-om an inflamed limb, though less warm than the focus of inflammation, is warmer than the arterial blood supplied to the limb ; and 3. That the venous blood returning fr’om an inflamed limb is warmer than the corresponding cuiTent on the opposite side of the body.” It is probable that there is always some local increase of heat in inflammation ; although the observations of Billroth, 0. Weber, and others, would appear to denote that the occurreirce is not constant. The rise of temperatme is probably but moderate ; to the patient, however, it appears greater than it is in reality—as Travers truly remarks, “ The nerves measure the sensation and not the degree of heat.” In many cases the sensation of the patient is that of Imrmng in the part, although the actual rise in temperature may be but trifling. This is owing to the exalted sensibility of the neiwes. How far the increased temperatme is dependent on the mere hyperasmia or on the changes going on between the blood and tissues of the part, is not yet decided. It must be remembered, however, that in aU conditions of severe exercise that part of the body in which determination of blood takes place, as also in blushing or partmition, the temperature rises. This can clearly not be owing to any production of heat during respiration, which may account for the gen&i'cd heat of the blood, but not for its local increase. 5. Modification of Function, Use, or Nutrition, invariably occms in in- flammation, and fmnishes important local symptoms. The Functional Achvifg of an organ is increased but perverted, in the earlier stages at least of inflamma- tion ; and the character of the secretions from the part is materially modified. Thus, when the mucous membrane of the urethra is inflamed, there is copious discharge from it; and this is not mucous, but pmulent. The Use of the pai-t affected is greatly interfered with ; thus the bladder can contain no m’ine, the eye cannot bear the light, nor can a joint be moved, when inflamed. . j.- . The NiilriUon of the inflamed tissues is modified or an’ested ; hence, wasting, softenino-, or contraction, are common accompaniments of inflammation. Constitutional Symptoms.—The severity of the constitutional symptoms will depend on the intensity and the extent of the inflammation; on the vital importance of the part affected by it; on the amoimt of local irritation ; and on the orig-in of the inflammation from external or from internal causes. Ihus, a moderate degi-ee of inflammation in a part of no Htal importance, as the skin, and occasioned by an extenial cause, as an abrasion, gii es use to no appiecn ^ constitutional disturbance. But if the inflammation be me e diffused erysipelas ; or if it arise fr-om constitutional causes ; or it the e c much local tension, as in whitlow ; or if the part aflected be ^ portance, as the larynx or the kidney, then the general symptoms become institutional disturbance in inflammation always assumes the form of