729 CURATIVE TREATMENT. Tery serious case of pyaemia following amputation of the arm, and accompanied not only by all the sjanptoms of that disease in a very marked degree, but by pleuritic elfusion, swelling and tenderness over one hip, and secondary hmmor • rhage from the stump, which was cured under the tonic and stimulating plan of treatment. The quinine very decidedly checks the rigors ; but does not appear to influence the temperature or the sweats. In some cases I have administered the chlorate of potash largely (5 ij to 5 iv in the day), in addi- tion to the quinine and 'wane, with apparent benefit. If the depression be very great, carbonate of ammonia in fiA'C to ten or even fifteen grain doses may be given, well diluted, from time to time ; such fluid nourishment as the patient Avill take, noth a liberal allowance of wine, porter, or brandy, being also administered. In addition to this medicinal treatment, hygienic measures must be put in force. The patient should throughout be placed in an airy and well-ventilated apartment, and cleanliness carefully attended to. In the case of a superficial vein being inflamed, it has been recommended by Bonnet, B^rard, and Langier, that the actual cautery should be fuUy apphed along the course of the vessel; and they state that the best results have followed this practice. As abscesses form, they must be freely opened ; and the diffuse and purulent collections forming in the areolar tissue must be evacuated ; the cavities being well syringed out with antiseptic lotions. In cases arising as the consequence of acute osteo-myelitis following amputations or compound fractures, removal of the hmb at the next joint above the affected bone has been recommended and successfully practised by Sir J. Fayrer, even after one or more well marked rigors. If convalescence take place, the patient will slowly recover. The rigors and sweats will gradually become less frequent; the appetite wiU improve; the countenance will lose its anxious expression, and the skin its unhealthy hue. But strength returns slowly. The disease may assume a relapsing character. Gieat caution, therefore, is necessaiy before a patient can be pronounced safe. E\en after recovery he ^vill continue pale and wasted ; energy is lost; nutrition is impaired ; and at a more remote period some low form of disease, as phthisis or albuminiu’ia, may j^rove fatal. *