328 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. Wounds of the Palmar Arches not nnlTcquently occur from the breaking 0 glass or chma in the hand, or stabs Irom some pointed instrument, and are always troublesome to manage. If the Surgeon sees the case shortly after the infliction of the wound, he may endeavour, by enlarging the aperture to a moderate extent, and with due attention to the tendons and nerves of the part, to secure the bleeding vessel. Should he fail in doing this, which he certainly will if it be the deep arch that is injured, a gi-aduated compress must be well and fii-mly applied. If this be properly done, it will very commonly be an effective means of arresting the hiemorrhage. If it be loosely and ineffectually put on, it will be worse than useless. The proper mode of putting on this compress is as follows. A toimiiquet having been applied on the brachial artery, the wound must be carefully cleared of all foreign bodies, and wiped dry ; each finger is then to be separately and carefully bandaged. A wooden splint is then to be put on the back of the hand and the lower part of the fore-arm. A firm well-made graduated compress IS now to be placed with the apex downwards on the wound, so as to bring and press the edges together, and seem-ely bandaged against it. The circulation through the limb should still, if possible, be controlled with a ring-toumiquet, applied on that artery above the wrist which appears most to correspond with the arch wounded, or better still, on the brachial itself; or the elbow may be forcibly flexed, and the fore-arm bandaged to the arm in this position, so that the hand rests upon the shoulder. The compress and limb must be left undisturbed for at least five or six days, when, the brachial being compressed, the dressings may be taken off, and the state of the pahn examined. Should the wound be healing and look well, the hand- splint and compress may be re-apphed ; but should the pahn be sloughy and infiltrated, with a tendency to htemorrhage, it will be useless again to resort to compression, and other means must be employed. Should an ineffectual attempt have been made to arrest the primary haemor- rhage, or should the case not be seen until several days have elapsed, when secondary haemorrhage has occurred, and the palm has become infiltrated and swollen, pressm’e can no longer be borne upon the seat of injury, and it is useless to endeavour to search for the injured vessel in the midst of sloughy and infiltrated tissues, through a narrow wound which cannot be enlarged without danger of disorganising the hand. In these chcumstances, it is necessary to deviate from the ordinary rule of practice in wounded arteries, and the Hunterian operation must be performed. The Singeon may either tie both arteries above the wi’ist, or at once dehgate the brachial. Both methods of treatment have then advocates. I prefer the simultaneous hgatm’e of the two arteries of the fore-arm, just above the wrist, where they are superficial and very easily reached. In several cases under my care, the radial and ulnar, immediately above the hand, have been tied at the same time with complete success, and I have never seen a case in which this operation has failed ; but should it do so, or should haemorrhage occur after this, as might happen in the case of an enlarged median or interosseous artery, the Surgeon must ha'se recom-se to compression or ligature of the brachial. Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism iu the Palm is by no means of fr’equent occuiTcnee. It may, however, follow wounds of the pahnar arches.