TREATMENT OF VARICOSE ANEURISM. 3^9 miinication bct^yeell an artery and vein ; besides this, there is a blowin" or bellon's sound, dependent on the anenrismal disease. These signs are most perceptible when the limb is in a dependent position; and the sonnds can often be heard in the veins at a considerable distance from the seat of injury. There is also some impairment in the nutrition and temperature of the parts supplied by the injured vessels. As the disease advances, the an- cnrismal tumour lying between the artery and vein continues to increase in size, and to become hardened by the deposition of laminated fibrine. If left to itself, it would probably continue to enlarge until sloughing of the integuments covering it occiuTed, followed by hmmoiThage. In some cases, the apertiu-e of com- munication betw^een the vein and sac becomes closed, and the aneiuism is con- verted into one of the false cncumscribed variety. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease must be conducted on different principles from those that have been laid down as required in the ordinary cir- cumscribed traumatic aueinism ; the difference depending upon the fact, that in the varicose aneurism there is always a double aperture in the sac, and that thus the proper deposition of laminated fibrine necessary for its occlusion can- not take place. The sac of such an aneinism may be compared to one that has been ruptm-ed, or accidentally opened, in which we could consequently not expect the occinrence of those changes that are necessary for the cine of anemism by the Hunterian operation. In a varicose aneinism, consequently, the sac must be fr-eely incised, and the arteiy tied on each side of the punctine in it. This procedure may, unless the Singeon be careful, and properly understand the pathology of this disease, be attended by some difficulty (Fig. 135). The operation may, hoivever, be gi-eatly simplified by exsanguinating the limb by means of the elastic roUer and the tourniquet. If this ingenious device be adopted, the Surgeon will be able to see cleai’ly what he is about. After the first incision has been made through the integuments, the dilated vein will be laid open, and an apertme will be .seen at the bottom of the vessel, fr'om which arterial blood may be made to issue by relaxing the tourniquet. If an attempt be made to find the artery immediately below this aperture, the Surgeon ivill be disappointed, for the saq of the ciremn- scribed aneurism intervenes between the tw^o vessels. That this aperture leads into the sac, and not into the artery, may readily bo ascertained by introducing a probe into it, wffiich will be seen to be capable of being carried sidew'ays, as well as upwards and doivnwards, to a considerable extent, and in different directions altogether out of the course of the artery. In order to expose this vessel properly, a probe-pointed bistoury must be introduced into this openino-, and the sac of the false aneurism slit up to its full extent, the coagula turned out, and the puncture in the artery sought for in the bottom of the°cavity that has been exq)oscd ; this may now' readily be made visible by the escape of a jet Fig. 135.—The opened Tumour removed from its Connexions. Application of Ligatirres.