CANALISATION OF VEINS. 335 In all cases in which air has gained admittance into the veins dm-ing an operation, these vessels were in one or other of the above-mentioned conditions. Tims, in^Bcanchesne’s case, air was introduced in consequence of incomplete dinsion of the external jugular, immediately above the right subclavian, whilst in a state of tension, during the removal of a portion of the clavicle. In a case that occiuTed to Dupuytren, a large vein connected vith a tumour, and com- municating with the jugular, was cut at the last stroke of the scalpel, whilst the tumour was being forcibly di’ami up. The vein was found to be adherent to the sides of a sulcus, so that it remained gaping when cut. In a case related by Delpech, there was hypertrophy of the axillary vein, causing it to gape like an artery. In Castara’s case there was incomplete section of a vein, Avhich opened into the subscapular whilst the tumour was being raised up. In Roux’s case a vein in the neck was opened, whilst a tumoiu’, which was being removed from that region, was being forcibly raised in order to dissect under it. Ulrick saw the accident occiu- in consequence of the incomplete division of the internal jugidar vein, which was implicated in a tumour in the neck. A similar case happened to Mirault of Angers, the internal jugular being divided to half its extent. A case ocem-red to Warren, in which the air entered by the sub- scapulai’ vein, the coats of which were healthy, but in a state of tension in consequence of the position of the arm ; and another, in which the same accident happened from the division of a small transverse branch of commmii- cation between the external and internal jugular, whilst in a state of tension. Mott, whilst removing a tumoiu' of the parotid gland, opened the facial vein, which was in a state of tension in consequence of the position of the patient’s head, when am was introduced. A case is related by Malgaigme in which this accident happened in consequence of the incomplete section of the external jugular vein, which was enveloped in a tumoiu- that was being removed. B(§gin also relates a case in which ah- entered in consequence of the punctiu-e of the internal jugular vein whilst he was removing a tumour from the neck. These cases, which are all that I have been able to meet with in which the condition of the wounded vein was particularised, show clearly what is the state of the vessel and of the siurounding parts that is most likely to favour the occun-ence of the accident, and consequently what the Siu-geon should particularly guard against in the removal of tiunoiu-s about the neck and shoulders ; viz., incomplete division of the veins, and the enijiloyment of forcible traction on the diseased mass at the moment of using the scalpel. In removing tumours fr-om the neck and shoulder, it is in many cases impossible to avoid drawing them forcibly upwards or forwards, in order to get at their deeper attachments ; but if this be necessary the chest should, for reasons that win immediately be pointed out, be tightly compressed, so that no deep inspi- rations may be made at the moment that the knife is being used, or before a divided or wounded vein can be effectually secured. Preventive Treatment.—In the pre-antesthetic days, the accidental entry of air into a vein during an operation was of more common occurrence than it is now. When a patient ivas under the knife, the respirations were generally shallow and restrained, the breath being held, whilst every now and then there V. S^sping inspiration ; at which moment, if a vein were opened in which the pulse was perceptible, or which was canalised, air must necessarily be