5^3 COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF ANKLE-JOINT. or sprains do not necessarily occasion dislocation, and must not be confounded Avith that accident. The dislocation Outwards is of most frequent occm-rence. The nmer mal- leolus projects forcibly against the skin. The deltoid ligament is either rup- tured, or the lower end of the inner malleolus broken off; there is a depression above the outer ankle corresponding to a fracture of the fibula ; and the sole of the foot is turned irpwards and outwards, the inner side touching the gTOund, whilst the outer edge is turned up. In the dislocation Inwards, which is a rare accident, and, aceording to Sir A. Cooper, much more dangerous than that just described, the fibula is not fractured, but the lower end of the tibia is splintered off; in an oblique mamier fr-om within outwards. The outer edge of the sole rests against the gi-omid, and the inner side is timned up. The Reduction of these lateral displacements is readily effected by simple traction on the foot, while the leg is flexed at the knee in order to relax the muscles inserted into the tendo Achillis ; leg-splints with lateral foot-pieces must then be put on, or Dupuytren’s splint may be applied on the same side as the dislocation, opposite to that on Avhich the eversion of the foot takes place. In the dislocation of the foot Backwards, the deltoid ligament is ruptm'ed, the fibula probably broken in the usual situation, and the tibia thrown forwards on the na-sicular and internal cuneiform bones ; the foot is consequently shortened, the heel rendered more projecting, and the toes pointing downwards. The dislocation Forwards, in which the foot is lengthened, and the tibia thrown upon the upper and posterior siuface of the os calcis, behind the astragalus, is an accident so rare as seldom to have been witnessed, although described. In the Treatment of these antero-posterior displacements of the ankle, traction of the foot in a proper direction, the leg being fixed and flexed upon the thigh, win readily be attended by replacement; the appheation of lateral sphuts being afterwards sufficient to keep the parts in proper position. Sometimes sub- cutaneous division of the tendo Achillis is necessary. Compound Dislocations of the Ankle-joint are serious and by no means unfrequent accidents, the displacement occiuTing in the same direction and from the same causes as the simple forms of injury. The Treatment of compoimd dislocations of the ankle-joint must depend to a considerable extent upon the amount of laceration of the soft parts, and the condition of the bones forming the arch of the joint. If the wound in the soft pai’ts be moderate in extent, clean cut, and with little bruising and injury to the bones, an attempt should be made to save the limb. This is here done by the assiduous use of antiseptics. There is no class of joint-injuries in which this method has been attended by better success than in these. The details should be carefully attended to as given at pages 201 et seq. Should antiseptics not be at hand, the case must be treated on ordinary principles, viz., by rest on a splint, the closure of the Avound, and application of ice or cold evaporating- lotions. In many instances this plan AAnll suffice, and the patient Avill recoA'er with a stiff but useful limb, the joint being only partially ankylosed. If, however, the bones be projecting and conmiinutcd, and the soft parts extensively lacerated, the question of amputation will necessarily arise. In ■ L L