292 ARREST OF ARTERIAL IIAEMORRIIAGE. the use of the temporary ligatime to be discontinued in surgical practice, even by those who at one time had most strongly advocated it. 2. The practice of Cutting off the Ends of the Ligature close to the knot, has been adopted by many Surgeons in the hope that it might either be absorbed, or, at least, that the irritation of the wound resulting from the dependent threads might be prevented. This practice was at one tune much advocated by LawTcnce ; but, though employed by him at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in many cases of amputation, excision of the breast, and removal of the testicles, it Avas relinquished by him for more than thirty years before his death. He found that the noose and knot of the finest silk thread, such as is used for fish-fines, did not weigh more than the one-fortieth of a grain, \Aken cut close to the vessel. But, although some success attended the earlier use of the method, it was soon foimd that even this small quantity, together Avith the tied end of the vessel, set up hritation, gave rise to abscess, and was injurious : hence its abandonment in all cases in Avhich the wound is closed AAuth the vieAv to speedy union. When the wound is left open to granulate, Siu’geons com- monly adopt this plan of treatment. 3. The use of Wire Ligatures is altogether of American origin. It origi- nated Avith Physick and Levert of Alabama, who performed several experiments Avith threads of gold, silver, platinum, and lead. They found that A\ith these the arteries of animals could be successfully tied, and that, the material of the ligature being uninitating, no evil from suppuration ensued. When the ends of the ligature Avere cut off close to the A’essel, it AA'as found that the small metafile noose became embedded in a cellular capsule. For some reason, this means fell into disuse, until it Avas reAuved by Marion Sims. At his suggestion I tried it in several cases of amputation and other surgical operations, but have long since abandoned it, as I found great inconvemences resulting from its use. If the ends of the Avue were left out of the wound, the noose became embedded in a mass of plastic matter, did not separate, and, after several weeks, required considerable force to detach and disconnect it. If the ends were cut short, the sides of the wound healed OA^er them; they became encapsided, but were by no means innocuous ; in some cases giving rise to severe neiualgia of the stump by pressiue on and irritation of neighbom’mg neiwes ; in others, after some weeks, causing localised chcumscribed abscesses to form. 4. The employment of Ligatures made of Materials that admit of Absorption in the wound has been a favoiuite idea with many Siugeons, and is one on which much experimental ingenuity has at various times been ex- pended : for the idea is a captivating one, and if it could be safely, certainly, and successfully carried out in practice, it would undoubtedly remove one of the obstacles to the union of wounds by direct adhesion. With this view, it was proposed to substitute ligatiues made of animal substances for the ordiiiai-y threads made of hemp. Silk thi-ead was used by LaAiuence ui 1815, and at first with success, union of the wound taking place in foui to six ays, vn 1011 suppuration. But other Sm-geons failed in this, and LaAiTence liimsc f Avas soon compelled to give it up from want of good results m Ins subsequent cases. Wardrop substituted the gut of the silk-worm made into a ne cor , u aa equally unsatisfactory results.