552 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. considerable splintering of tbe inner table ; and here, I think, the safer plan would be, even in the absence of all symptoms of compression, to elevate for the same reason that we trephine in punctured fracture—the prevention of inflammatory action that will be occasioned by the irritation of the splinters of the inner table. I Avould not, however, ventiu’c to dogmatise on this veiy important and difficult point of practice. The opinions of the most expe- rienced Surgeons are at variance ; and cases may readily be adduced on either side in support of conflicting doctrines. It would appear that military Surgeons generally are in favour of the expectant plan, and cases may be found ill the works of Guthrie, Balhngall, &c., in support of this practice ; and it is a I’emarkable circumstance that, in many of these instances in which recovery resulted in cases of depressed fracture of the skuU which ivere not subjected to operative interference, the patients were exposed to great priva- tions, possibly during a hiu’ried retreat, and left in circumstances apparently the least favourable to recoveiy. So far as my own experience is concerned, which is necessarily drawn purely from civil practice, I can say that, vdth the exception of the case that has just been referred to, I do not recollect e'ser haidng seen a case recover in which a compound depressed fracture of the skull occurring in the adult had been left ivithout operation ; but I have, on the other hand, seen several instances of recovery in which the bone had been elevated and fragments removed. The sooner elevation is done the better. Danger does not arise from eaily operation, but fr’om delay. The presence of depressed and spiculated fr:agments pressing into the diwa mater must inexdtably and speedily induce encephahtis. I have several times trephined in such circumstances as these with success, and have never had occasion to regret doing so. Indeed, there is no class of cases in which the operation of trephining is attended by such successful results as m those of depressed and comminuted fracture. Even though several days have elapsed and inflammation has set in, the proper treatment wifi be to remove the depressed and splintered bone, and thus give the patient his oidy chance a slender one, it is true—of recovery. In such adverse circimstances the patient may, however, be saved. A man was admitted under Liston wi i a long depressed fr-actiwe on the side of the head, produced by the blow of a brickbat; though no sign of compression existed, yet syuiptoms of cerebra inflammation were speedily set up, and Liston trephined him on the fourth day after the accident; the man, who was perfectly conscious walking into the operating theatre. A considerable splintering of the inner table was foimd, the fragmmte of «re romoTed. The dm-a mater harmg been by one of the spionla of bone, diffuse suppin-ation of tbe membranes of the bia n sJt in and the patient died in a few days. In this case, however tbe necessity for eriy trephining was clearly indicated, notwithstanding the absence of any TbernttS^aSts of rvactuve of the ShuU in those who recover will less closely resemble the conditions given atp. 53/, as t tusion of the cranium without fr-acture. Bpi epsy was very ^ can war cases ; so also partial or complete loss of tnsion ™ sequences of such injmies. When deafness ” with impairment of other special senses, and often of tbe mental hicnltics.