594 INJURTES OF THE SFIML The spine may be so seriously injured tliat dislocation is at any moment im- minent, and yet the patient may lire for some days before the displaeement occurs, by which the cord is compressed. A man was admitted into University College Hospital, who had been crushed by falling between the platform and a train in motion. Amongst other severe injuries he had paralysis of the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves of the left arm, but no hypertesthesia. On the third day, whilst being moved in bed, his head fell to one side, and he suddenly died. On examination after death, it was found that the second cervical vertebra, carrying the atlas and head with it, had been dislocated from the third (Fig. 250) ; the connecting ligaments being completely torn through on the left side, so that the head falling to one side had caused fatal compression of the cord. Dislocation of tlie Atlas from the Occipital Bone has been described in two instances only—by Lassus and by Paletta. In the case by Lassus, death ensued in six hours, and the right vertebral artery was found to be rup- tiued. In the other case, the patient is said to have lived for five days, but the report is so incomplete that little value can be attached to it. Dislocation of the Axis from the Atlas is of more frequent occiu’rence. It may happen vnth or without fractiue of the odontoid process. In either case, the axis is carried backwards and the spinal cord thus compressed. This accident is said to have been caused by a person in play lifting a child off the ground by its head ; the combination of rotation and traction in this move- ment being especially liable to occasion the accident. For the same reason, it has been met with in those who have been executed by hanging. Death would probably be instantaneous in these circumstances. It has, however, been stated that, in dislocations of this kind, life has been saved by the Surgeon placing his knees against the patient’s shoulders, and drawing or twisting the head into position. This, however, I cannot believe possible if the displace- ment have been complete, as death must be instantaneous, the cases of supposed dislocation and reduction having probably been instances of con- cussion of the cord with sprain of the neck. Dislocation of any one of the five Lower Cervical Vertebrae may occiu’. The third vertebra is least frequently dislocated ; the fifth is more com- monly displaced (Fig. 255). These injuries are usually associated with ft’acture ; sometimes, though rarely, they happen without this complication. In these dislocations, as in those that have afready been described, the displaced bone can-ies with it the whole of that portion of the vertebral colmnn which is above it, no single bone being dislocated either among those above or those below the displacement. In dislocations, the articulations between the two vertebrre are torn open. The supraspinous and interspinous ligaments, the ligamenta subflava, and the common posterior ligament, are torn through, so that the spinal canal is opened. The intervertebral fibro-cartilage may be torn, or it may be entire, and a scale of the body of the subjacent vertebra be detached, men the spine above the dislocated part is bent forwards, a wide gap is visible posteriorly, at the seat o The causes of dislocation arc numerous, but may be enumerated as follows. I. A person standing in a cart and driving under an archway finds,