SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. 865 dcci)ly seated constitutional affection of the tertiary type. But some of the most obstinate cases that I have met with appeared to liave originated from direct contact of the tongue with the same organ in another person the subject of tertiary lingual syidiilis, and thus from direct contamination. The Treatment consists in the administration of mercury, in the form either of iodide or of perchloride. Donovan’s solution is extremely useful in many of the more inveterate of these cases. The ulcers should be touched from time to time with the nitrate of silver. The syphilitic diseases of the Throat are amongst the most common manifes- tations of constitutional syphilis, and frequently occur early. They present several distinct foinis, coiTCsponding to analogous primary and secondary cutaneous affections. One of the earliest conditions is a deep-red exanthe- matous efflorescence of the soft palate and the pillars of the fauces, either without ulceration, or mth but superficial abrasion, but with much cachexy and depression of power, and perhaps with considerable pyrexia. It often occims about the period of the uivasion of the roseolar or rupial syphilide, and requires the same Treatment as is necessary in these affections, together with the local application of a strong solution of the nitrate of silver. A deep exca- vated ulcer, with a hard base and foul greyish surface, of circular or OA’al.form, is not uufrequently met with on one or the other tonsil; it corresponds to that class of secondary phenomena that follows the indurated chancre, and recjuires merciuy in some form for its cm-e ; in this and many other cases, the mineral may most conveniently be apphed to the throat by means of fumigation. A sloughing ulcer is occasionally seen on the side of the throat or palate, with much swelling, a foul grey surface, and rapid destruction of parts, giving rise A'ery commonly to perforation of the soft palate, and thus, by partially destroy- ing the ciu’taui between the mouth and the nose, occasioning serious inconve- nience to the patient during deglutition and in speech. This form of ulcer is connected with the rupial or ecthymatous syphilides, and requires the same constitutional Treatment as these. The best local plan is free sponging with strong nitric acid, and gargling with solutions of the chlorides. More rarely a foim of the serpiginous ulceration is met with, producing considerable contrac- tion and inconvenient consolidation of tissues after its cure. It is, I think, best treated by the local application of nitric acid, and the internal administra- tion of perchloride of merciuy. The mucous membrane of the Larynx is not unfr’equently affected both in early and in advanced syphilis. Dining the period of the scaly eruptions 011 the skin, and excoriation of the fauces, the larynx is attacked by catarrhal inflammation and by the formation of flat slightly elevated papules, similar to those seen on other parts of the body. The symptoms are hoarseness and loss of voice, and occasionally cough. They usually subside without leaving any permanent injury. In these .cases, chronic inflammation, with thickening and ulceratio]!, takes place about the rima glottidis, with the general and local .s}Tnptoms of chronic laryngitis ; such as huskincss of voice, cough, and expec- toration of tenacious or offensive mucus ; a difficulty in degiutition, and a tendency to choking on swallowing liquids, with tenderness on pressure about the throat, also come on. These cases arc usually accompanied by much constitutional cachexy, and not unfr-equently terminate fatally by the von. I. 3 K