SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 502 tliigli and the perineenm, and fixed to the staple in the floor. The pulleys mnst now be attached to proper straps, or to a towel fixed with a clove-hitch knot immediately above the knee, at one end ; the other extremity being attached to the staple in the wall, which shonld be so situated as to be con- tiimons with the axis of the lower part of the hmb. The knee being then slightly bent and rotated inwards, traction is applied slowly and steadily until the head of the bone has approached the acetabulum, Avhen the Surgeon rotates the hmb outwards so that the head may shp into its socket (Fig. 229). The Fig. 229.—Redur.tion of Ilio-sciatic Dislocation Uy Extension. fact of the reduction being accomplished is ascertained, by comparing the bony points of the limb with those of the opposite side, and seeing if they corre- spond. A long splint and spica bandage shonld now be applied to fix the thigh, and the patient be kept in bed for a fortnight, so that reunion of the ruptured tissues may take place. In reducing this dislocation, there is some danger of the head of the bone shpping downwards into the sciatic notch, if the limb be too much raised. This accident, which has happened to some veiy exceUent Singeons, may be mistaken for reduction of the bone; a serious mistake, Avhich Avould, unless corrected, entail permanent lameness. Reduction of recent Dislocation into the Sciatic Notch should be effected by Manipulation. This may usually be done by laying the patient flat on his back, fixing the pelvis, raising the thigh at a right angle so as to unlock the head of the bone and bring it below the acetabulum. It my be jerked mto this cavity by bringmg the foot down and rotating outwards at e A. Cooper foiuid gi’eat difficulty in the reduction of the dislocation ; and he and Lisfranc, amongst other Surgeons, have failed to rediice it by extension. In the reduction by Extension, the patient is laid on his soimd side instead of on his back, and extension is made over the middle of the opposite thigh instead of immediately above the knee, as in the iliac dis- of these dislocations, if diffleidty arise in raising the bone over the edge of the aoetabnhnn, recom-se may be had to the plan » Astlev Cooner of lifting the head of the bone out of the notch and ovei the fdge of the acrtabnlnm by means of a ronnd tmvel placed '“f. Of the thigh and over the shoulders of an assistant, who, first stoopm, and a