597 SALIVARY FISTULA. CHAPTER XXVI. —*— INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. Face.—Cuts about the Clieehs and Forehead are of common occurrence. These injmies present nothing peculiar’, except that the structures of the face show the same ready disposition to repair, as well as to the supervention of erysipelatous inflannnation, that characterises the scalp when injured. In the Treatment of these wormds,»it is of much consequence to have as little scan-ing as possible. The edges, after being well cleaned, should be brought neatly into apposition by fine hair-hp pins and twisted suture, or by a few points of inteiTupted sutime ; more particularly if the wound be transverse, and impheate the lips or nose. When the wound is in the neighboiuhood of the eyehds, especial care must be taken to prevent any loss of substance, lest the contraction of the cicatrix produce eversion of the lid. In those cases in which a portion of the nose or lip has been lost, much may be done to repair the deformity by properly conducted plastic operations, such as will be described in Chapter LVIII. The bleeding, which is usually very free in wounds of the face, in consequence of the di^dsion of some arterial branch, may often be an-ested by passing the hair-hp pin under the vessel, and apply- ing the twisted sutiue above it, so that it may be compressed. If the Lip he cut from iviihin, by being struck against the teeth, the coronary artery may be divided, the patient swallo’wing the blood that flows into the mouth. Some years ago, a man was brought to the Hospital, drunk, and much bruised about the face. Shortly after his admission he vomited a large quantity of blood, which was at first supposed to proceed from some internal injiuy ; but, on examining his mouth, it was foimd that the blood came from the coronary artery of the lip, which was divided with the mucous membrane. Parotid Duct.—It occasionally hajipens in wounds or abscesses of the cheek that the parotid duct is divided, in consequence of which the wound does not close, and a tnckling of sali va takes place upon the outside of the cheek, so as to estabhsh a Salivary Fistula, a som’ce of much disfigm’ement and incon- > enience. The surface siUTOunding it is puckered and somewhat excoriated, and the fistula opens by a granulating aperture. If this condition be recent, a ciue may sometimes be accomplished, by pai’ing the edges of the external wound, bringing them into close apposition, and applying pressure upon the part. If it be of old standing, the probability is that the aperture into the mouth is closed, and that something more ivill be required than bringing the hps of the wound together. With this view the opCTation that Avill be described in Chapter LY. must be had recourse to. csidcs the fistula of the Btenonian duct, other fistulous apertiues may