43 SAWING THE BONE. diameter of the limb ; and its angles being rounded, it is allowed simply to bam-- over the end of the stimip, without being folded upon itselt as in Teale’s operation. The posterior parts are divided from without inwards by a single sweep of the kniie. Equally good results may be obtained, as sugg;estea by^Lister, with still shorter flaps, by the following operation. An anterior roiuided flap, equal in length to two-thirds of the diameter of the hmb, is raised by cutting fi-om unthout inwards, taking with it as much muscle as may be required to form a good cushion over the bone ; a posterior skin-flap is then made rather more than half the length of the anterior, also rounded in shape. The posterior muscles are cut as short as possible, so as to set the flap free from the effects of their contraction. The soft parts are then retracted for about two inches and the bone sawn. By these means all the advantages claimed by Teale for his method, \iz., a good covering, a dependent opening for discharges, and a cicatrix fi-ee from the pressure of the end of the bone, are obtained with the smallest possible sacrifice in the length of the limb. As by all these methods the cicatrix is some way posterior to the end of the bone, the patient is capable of bearing a certain portion of his weight directly on the end of the stump, which gives greatly increased steadiness and power in the use of the artificial limb. Amputation hy one Long Flap.—In some amputations, as at the shoulder and hip-joints, owing to the anatomical configuration of the parts, only one long flap can be made. And in others, as in the removal of the fingers through a phalangeal articulation, or of the metatarsal bone of the gi-eat toe, it is fomid more convenient to make but one long flap, cutting through the soft parts transversely on the opposite side of the limb. This method has been extended by some Sm-geons to aU amputations, but it appears to me to possess no ad- vantage over the double flap, and to be attended by the same inconvenience as that which accompanies Teale’s method. 3. Sawing the Bone.—So soon as the incisions have been made thi-ough the soft parts, the bones must be cleared for the application of the saw. This is best done, when there is only a single bone, by a firm circular sweep of the knife fi-om heel to point round the mider segment of the bone, and then another round the upper surface in the opposite direction. If there be two bones, care must be taken in clearing them not to direct the edge of the knife upwards into the interosseous space higher than the line to which the saw is to be apphed, lest any ai-teiybe cut where it viU, on account of its retraction, be difl&cult to secine it. The bone hai-ing been properly cleared, the flaps must be firmly retracted by^an assistant, in order to allow the saw to be applied opposite the highest point of the incision through the soft parts. For the pinpose of retraction, the assistant’s hands are quite sufficient, though some Sm-geons still use “ retrac- tors,” made of split pieces of linen cloth or of wash-leather. But, although “ retractors ” may not be required for the pm-pose of di’a-wing back the soft jiarts, they are of great use in protecting the muscles fi-om the teeth of the saw and fi-om the bone-dust produced : for the laceration of the deep muscles by the saw, and the imbedding of particles of bone-dust in their substance, inter- fere seriously with union. In order to saw the bone quickly and steadily, there are several points deserving attention. The first cut should be made so as to foi-m a deep groove to receive the teeth : to do this, the heel of the saw is steadied against the left thumb, Avhich is pressed on the bone ; and the instru-