JXFLAMMATIOK. loS 2. Amono-st the most common canses of congestion that act by enfeebling- the vessels, Ave find the debility of old age, acting partly by lessening the tone •of the vascular system generally, and partly by inducing a diminution of the propulsive poAver of the heart. So also cold, by lessening the vitality and retai-ding the cu'culation of a pai’t, produces congestion in it. Certain typhoid or adynamic states of the system favoiu- the occurrence of congestion in the more dependent parts. And, lastly, inflammation may terminate in this con- •dition. The obstructh'e causes are specially apt to induce congestion when they occur in connection with a feeble condition of the vascidar system and vdth •cardiac debihty. Treatment.—The treatment of congestion has strict reference to its cause. The fii’st indication consists in the remoA-al of any source of obstruction to the retiu’n of blood from the part, as by unloosening a ligatm-e, or elevating a part that has been too long dependent; or, less directly, as in the case of many internal congestions, by restoring the freedom of the circulation through the larger viscera. Thus, a congested eye or pile may be reheved by the removal of hepatic or portal obstruction. The next indication consists in lessening the cpiantity of blood in the con- gested part. The mere removal of the obstructing cause may ettect this. In other cases, the direct remoA'al of the blood by scarification, as in a congested ■conjunctiva, or by leeches, as around a tingid pile, affords immediate relief. In some parts, again, the judicious application of a bandage aaIU preA'ent or remove congestion. With this Aiew, the hand and arm are bandaged before ' the apparatus for a fractured claAicle is apphed: and in vai-ix the leg is .supported by an elastic stocking, to lessen the pressm-e of blood in the dilated veins. The third indication in the treatment of congestion consists in constringing the dilated vessels by the direct application of an astringent to them ; thus we liabitually apply nitrate of silver to a congested mucous membrane, and cold douches to many external forms of the disease. Determination.—We hai'e already seen that congestion essentially con- .sists in an impeded retinn of the venous blood from a part. In cMermnation, the condition is reversed ; arterial blood is sent in increased quantity to a part, mid circulates through it with great rapidity. This condition, which is often called “ increased action,” differs, therefore, from congestion in every respect •except in that of the blood being in excess. ^ Determination of blood is aAutal process, often very transitory, and frequently ■occiu-s as a normal action in those conditions of the system in Avliich, tor temporary purposes, an increased afflux of blood is called foi by paiticu ai organs. The enlargement of the mamma; before lactation, and the turgor o the erectile tissues, afford familiar illustrations. ^ An increased local supply of blood lies at the bottom of most siii-j^ica pio cesses ; few important singical actions taking place a\ ithoiit it. o piocess y Avhich the separation of dead parts is effected, or by which t c lepan o woimc s or ulcers is carried out, can occur without it. Dvery tissue is suscep 11 c o i , and the Siu-geon often excites it intentionally as one of the mos e cicii o ns therapeutic means. Under these circumstances, therefore, it can scai-cely be considered a disease.