137 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. mation ; but in all cachectic and stnunous constitutions it should, as much as possible, be avoided. It is of great use not only in airesting the further progress of the disease, but especially in causing the absorption of the effusions, and in removing some of the other effects of ckronic inflammation, such as thickening, hardening, and opacity of the parts. It should be given in small doses for a considerable length of time, until the gums are slightly affected. In many cases of depressed power it may be A'ery advantageously conjoined with bark or sarsaparilla. The most useful preparations ai-e calomel in half- gi'ain or gi’ain doses, and the iodide of mercury in the same quantities ; or, if a gradual and continuous effect be required, the perchloride in doses from one- sixteenth to one-eighth of a grain. Iodide of potassium is an alterative and absorbent of the greatest value, especially in the ckronic inflammations of fibrous or osseous tissues, or of the glands, ocemring in strumous constitutions. In these it may often be substi- tuted mth great advantage for meremy, and given in those cases in which that mineral would otherwise be administered. In many cases it is of essential service after a merem-ial com-se; some days should, however, be allowed to elapse after the mercury is discontinued before the iodide is given, otherwise profuse sahvation or even sloughing of the gimis may result. Sarsaparilla is a veiy valuable remedy if obtained good, and forms an ad- mirable vehicle for the preparations of meremy or iodine. The fluid extract of red Jamaica sarsaparilla, carefrilly prepared, is that to which I give the prefer- ence ; and where the inflammation is associated with want of power, its value is certaiidy very gi'eat. Cod-liver oil is of the very gTeatest value in the various strumous forms of clnonic inflammation in debilitated, emaciated, and cachectic subjects. It may be gi^en in some vehicle, such as milk, orange-wine or jiuce, that covers its taste. In some cases it is advantageously conjoined vdth the iodide of potassium , or, vheie there is much want of power, and stnunous aucemia is present, with the preparations of iron. It is more particularly in children and young people that it is of service in remonng the various effects of chronic inflammation. _ P^gatives are often required in chronic inflammation. In robust subjects in whom the disease is active, salines may be employed; to which, if there be a rheumatic tendency, colchicum may advantageously be added. As a toCneia 111 e, vaim aperients, such as the compound decoction of aloes, with Eochelle salt, ansvnr best; and in children a powder composed of one part of meremy and chalk, two of carbonate of soda, and foin of rhubarb, will be Jound very serviceable. f heatment of Chronic IxFLAiMMATioN.—111 cliroiiic inflammation the ™ ‘Itan m the acute form of eiTOiiio •>}' scarification, leechiii!!', or applicatioVL™ md m t-epeathig this