945 CAUSES OF lEEMOPlITLIA. In these families of bleeders, it is scarcely necessary to say that it is imperative to be careful to make no surgical wounds, even of the most trivial character, if they can possibly bo avoided. Above all, the extraction of teeth must be avoided. It is after this slight operation that the most uncontrollable and fixtal hiemorrhages have occmTcd. The htnmorrhagcs, though usually trau- matic, may be spontaneous ; they then usually jirocced froin the nose, bowel, kidney, or subcutaneous connective tissue. In women they assume the character of profuse and uncontrollable menorrhagia. The haemorrhages are accompa- nied by the symptoms described at page 2G(;, as characterising excessive loss of blood; and after their cessation the patient usually remains anaemic for many weeks or months. The quantity of blood lost is often enormous, amounting in some cases to several pounds in the twenty-four hours. Formerly it was supposed that females were exempt from haemophilia. But Dr. Wickham Legg, to whom we are indebted for an excellent monogTaph on this condition, states that this assumption can no longer be maintained, although women are far less disposed to the disease than men ; that they present few instances of the more typical forms of the disease ; and that it is less fatal iu them than in men. j\Iost of the fatal cases in women have occuiTed by htemorrhage from the genital organs, and Legg quotes a case from Wachsmuth, “ where the rupture of the hymen on the marriage-night caused the death of the bride from h£emorrhas:e.” A frequent symptom accompanying this diathesis is a painful and sudden swelling of one or more joints either occurring spontaneously, or as the result of some slight injury. The swelling is the result of an effusion into the synovial membrane, of blood and synovia. It may last only a few days or may endm'e for months. The joint is often permanently weakened, and relapses are fr’equent during the cure. 2. HcBmophilia may occiu* iu individuals from some fault in the solid con- stituents of the body, in consequence of which the smaUer vessels ruptiu-e too easily, and when divided do not contract with sufficient readiness. There appears to be every degree in the tendency to bleed abnormally, from persons who, being “out of condition,” and having the tissues soft and flaccid, bleed freely and bruise extensively from trivial wounds and slight blows, to those vho are affected with true hereditary Inemophilia. The bleedino- in these cases IS maintained by the laxity of flbre preventing the proper contrac- tion of the divided or torn vessels; and the tendency to hiemorrhao-e wiU vary at different times in the same person according as the state of hisliealth improves or deteriorates. teiideney to hamiorrhage may depend upon a morbid state cLT In^ coagulability is diminished or _ ei lost, ihis state IS often met with in diseases such as scurvy chronic jaundice, and albuminuria, that produce a diffluent state of the blood The e^dition of the blood in true luemophilia has attracted the attentionf mail ► o^eons and Pathologists. It has been stated to be watery, deficient in red corpuscles and in fibriiie, and uiicoagulable. But more accurate chomio^^^^^ cxam.nat.„..thanha,yot boon made L-oq.m-cd todctoL“otTZ! pmtioii of Its constituents ; and as to its coagniability, there apncars to ho no differenee betwecii batmophilia and liealthy blood in the earuL stages of a “S'- 3 l>