SFIiAhYS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUAIN. 587 ago under my care at the Hospital. In both, the paralysis existed on the ulnar hut not on the radial side of the arms, owing to the external cutaneous median and museulo-spiral ner\-es arising higher from the plexus than the ulnar, and thus just escaping injury. It is remarkable that, in both these cases, there was acute cutaneous sensibility in the arms along the Avhole line of junction between the paralysed and the sound parts. There is this remarkable fact connected with injuries of the Imver portion of the cervical spinal cord, that the temperature below the seat of injury often rises very considerably—to a higher point, indeed, than is noticed in any other surgical affection. Brodie found in one case that the thermometer marked 111° F. But in other cases again the tem- perature has been found greatly reduced, not more than 81° to 82° F. In cases of injury of the cord in this situation, death usually occurs by asphyxia in the coiu-sc of from 48 hours to a Aveek. 4. When the diA'ision of the spinal cord takes place above the Origin of the Phrenic Nerves opposite to or above the third cervical vertebra, instan- taneous death results from the paralysis of the diaphragm, as well as of the rest of the respiratory muscles, inducing sudden asphyxia. It necessarily happens in partial diArision of the cord, that the symptoms are not so clearly marked as in the instances that haA'e just been recorded. Thus, for instance, the paralysis may not extend to all the parts beloAV the seat of injiuy ; it may be attended by severe pain in some of the semi-paralysed parts ; or motion may be affected in one limb, and sensibihty in another. These dcAuatious may generally be explained by some peculiarity in the seat of the injury to the cord, or by the extent of its division. MECHANICAL INJUBIES OF THE VEBTEBEAL COLUMN. The mechanical injuries to which the vertebral column is liable, consist of (Sprains or Wrenches, Fractm’e, and Dislocation. Twists, Spraixs, or Wrenches oe the Spine, without fracture or dislo- cation of the vertebrm, may occur in a variety of Arrays. Boyer relates a fatal case, occiu-ring from an injiuy receWed in practising gymnastics. Sir A. Cooper giA'es an instance of a fatal AA'rench of the spine, frum a rope catching a boy round the neck whilst SAvinging. In tAvo cases, the injiuy also arose from A'iolence applied to the cervical spine ; in one from a railway accident, in the other from a fall from a horse. These Avrenches of the spine are, frum obvious reasons, most liable to occiu in the more mobile parts of the A'ertebral column, as the neck and loins, just ahoA'e the sacral region ; less fr’equently in the dorsal region. In railway collisions, Avhen a person is violently and suddenly jolted from one side of the carriage to the other, the head is frequently forcibly throAvn forAvards and backwards, moving as it Avere by its OAvn AAeight, the patient having for the time lost control over the muscidar structures of the neck. In such cases the patient complains of a seA'erc straining, aching pain in the aiticulations between the head and the spine, and in the Cer-vical Spine ffself. ^ Phis pain closely resembles that felt in any joint after a severe AATcnch o Its ligamentous structiues, but is peculiarly distressing in the spine, owim>- 0 he extent to which fibrous tissue and ligament enter into the composition