241 EFFECTS OF SNAKE-POISON. Sir E. Home has recorded a hxfcal case of rattle-snake bite occurring in England. A similar instance has been seen at St. George’s Hospital, and another in Pai-is, in showmen. The most remarkable case of this kind x\'ith which I am acquainted occniTed some years ago at the University College Hospital, and afforded an oixportnnity, rare in this country, of -witnessing the effects of the bite of a cobra di capcllo. The patient, a keeper at the Zoological Gai’dens, was bitten in the bridge of the nose, the poison-fang ha\iug 'apparently J3enetrated the angular vein. When brought to the hospital, about half an horn- after the accident, he was apparently dying, being miable to speak, swallow, or support himself; the i^upils were dilated, the face li-\id, the heart’s action feeble, and he was scarcely conscious. After death, which took place in little more than an hour from the time of the infliction of the Avonnd, the veins of the brain and the cerebral sinuses were found con- gested -Ruth blood, as were also the lungs to an immense extent, and the solid abdominal Uscera. The right cavities of the heart were loaded with dark blood, the left being empty; indeed, the phenomena of asphyxia were strik- ingly marked. In this case, death would appear to have resulted fr-om the poison paralysing the medulla oblongata, and those portions of the nervous system which are concerned in carrying on respiration, at the same time that the blood was disorganised by the action of the virus. Effects of Sj^ake-poisoj^.—The venom of the cobra has been found to consist of an albuminous fluid of acid reaction, holding cells in suspension. When given internally, or applied to the conjunctiva, it fails to kill. Snake- poison, when introduced into the system tln-ough a bite or punctiu-e, may prove injiuions or kill, either by its primaiy and direct depressing influence on the nervous system, somewhat resembling that produced by some narcotic poisons ; or, secondarily, and more remotely, by exciting severe diffuse inflam- mation of the areolar tissue of the limb or part. The intensity of its effects depends m some measiwe upon the \-igom- of the animal inflicting the wound; one that has been compelled to bite frequently has no longer the destructive power which it had when fr’esh. The first mode of death occurs only when the poison is either very powerful, or the aniinal bitten small. Thus the poison of the tobacco-pipe snake is said to be so vin-dent, that it will kill a full-gTown man in less than a quarter of an horn-. The rattle-snake, and the cobra di capello, wiU kill a small animal in the com-se of a few seconds ; and a man, bitten some years ago by a rattle- snake m Paiis, died in nine hoiu-s; the cobra bite just related was fatal in little more than one hour ; and the Austrahan tiger-snake wiU kill in less than twenty-four hom's. venomous and death is not speedy, the poison excites diffuse inflammation and suppm-ation of the areolar tissue of the limb utten. This is a very common consequence of the bite of the adder and tlic viper m this country. It may also occur after bites by the laro-cr ophiclia Thus, 111 the case which occim-ed in St. George’s Hospital, the patient died on the eighteenth day after the bite of a rattle-snake, with lai-o-e of'thThmb of the areolar tissue Phe Symptoms occurring after VOL. I. a poisonous snake-bite consist in great B