TUMOURS. 772 Alveolar and Large Round-celled Sarcoma.—In these rare tumours, mIucIi were fiist clearly described by Billroth, the colls are of considerable size, sharply defined, and each containing a large round nucleus (Pig. 299). They thus closely resemble epithelium-cells in appearance. They are separated from each other by a distinct and somewhat abundant fibrous stroma, but on careful examination this stroma will be found to penetrate between the individual cells. In some parts, probably from the pressure of the grovdng cells, the stroma may be partially absorbed, so that the cellular elements seem to lie in alveolar spaces in immediate contact with each other, but further examination of the tumour will always show parts where the stroma and cells are closely inter- mixed. On carefully pencilhng out the cells from a thin section, it will often be found that a deli- cate stroma is brought into view, passing between the individual cells and subdividing the spaces formed by the bands, which give the growth its alveolar and can- cer-like appearance. In some cases, however, the distinction be- tween these tumom’S and scin’hus is very difficult. Alveolar sar- comata occur chiefly in the cutis, bones, and muscles. In the cutis they form hard rounded tumom’S, often multiple, of tolerably slow growth, and free from pain. They lead ultimately to ulceration of the skin and the formation of an intractable ulcer. In the bones, they are more often single and of more rapid growth. Three cases affecting the cutis have occurred in University College Hospital during the last few years. In the first, three amputations had been performed for recm’rence of the growth after removal, by Christopher Heath, commencing with one finger and ending with the fore-arm. The tumours, when first removed, were supposed to be specimens of sch'rhus of the skin. Finally, similar tumoiu’s appeared in the cheek and scalp, and two more operations were performed. The man died shortly afterAvards, and there was reason to believe that the cause of death was a similar tumoim in the lung. The whole history of the case lasted more than seven years, and at no time had the lymphatic glands been affected. In the second case, Berkeley Hill amputated the leg for a number of similar tumours situated below the knee, from one of which the accompanying draiving is taken; and in the third, Marcus Beck amputated half the foot for a similar growth, which commenced at the roots of the second and thii’d toes, and had reemred three times after removal. Melanotic Sarcoma—Melanosis—formerly included under melanotie cancer, was speciaUy studied by Sir Robert Carswell, Avho arranged it luider the heads of Punctiform Melanosis, in which the dark pigmentary matter ocem-s in the shape of minute points or dots scattered over a considerable extent of sm-face ; Tuberiform Melanosis, occmriug in tumours which vary in bulk from a millet-seed to an egg or an orange, always assuming a globulm, ovoid, or lobulated shape, and being principally met with in the areolo-adipose Fig. 299.—Alveolar 'Sarcoma from Skin of Leg (188 diam.) A. 'To show general arrangement. B. After prolonged pencilling shows tlie intercellular as well as the alveolar stroma.