244 POISONED WOUNDS. and observant traveller, makes a similar statement, viz., that hydrophobia cannot proceed from thirst and heat, as it is unknown in Egypt, the West India Islands, and some other tropical parts. The theory of hydrophobia arising from nngratified sexual desire appears to be equally untenable. It is not uncommon in Africa, Mr. Donovan says, for wolves, jackals, and wild dogs to prowl about mad with heat; and in this state they are most dangerous, so much so that domesticated dogs instinctively shun them, but there is no evidence of their ever having communicated hydrophobia. Having been told that no bitches were allowed in Sark, I A^note to Dr. Cockridge of that Island to inquire if this were the fact, and if so, whether hydi-ophobia were preva- lent there. He informed me that there were no bitches in the island, and that dogs were very numerous, but that no case of hydrophobia had, to his knowledge, ever occiuTed there, and that the clergyman, who had had thirty years’ experience of the island, had never heard of a case of that disease. Dogs more frequently become rabid than bitches; thus, of a hundred and forty-one cases collected by Eckel, only fifteen occmred in bitches ; and amongst dogs it is most common in those of a mongrel breed, seldom affecting those that are of pm-e blood, or that have been castrated. In man, hydrophobia occm’s either fi'om the bite of a dog known to be rabid, or by the hand or face of the master whilst caressing the animal being bitten, or from a raw smface, as a crack in the lip, being licked by an animal iU of rabies, but in whom the characteristic symptoms have not developed themselves.* But it is important to knoAV that the bite of a rabid animal is by no means certain to occasion hydrophobia. In fact, the vast majority of people who are bitten by animals in a state of rabies do not take the disease. Thus Hunter and Yaughan (Halford) state that only one out of twenty or thirty Avho are bitten by rabid dogs becomes hydrophobic. But the bite of a rabid wolf is far more dangerous than that of a mad dog. Watson states that of 114 persons bitten by rabid wolves, 67 died of hydrophobia. The bite of a rabid cat is also more dangerous than that of a dog. The fact is that the dog usually bites at the leo'S, and thus when he inflicts a wound, it is through clothing, by Avhich his teeth are wdped and the saliva arrested, and thus the wound escapes inocula- tion. Wolves and cats, on the other hand, ahvays fly at naked parts of the body as the face or throat; hence the greater danger of their bites. But maldno- all allowance for the mechanical action of clothing in preventing- inoculation of the part bitten, there is, I think, good reason to beheve that there is a «-reat difference in the susceptibility of different individuals to the noison of rabies. Eor it is an undoubted fact that veterinary Smgeons and others have often been bitten in an imcovered hand by rabid dogs, and yet have escaped the disease. EUiotson mentions the cases of two sisters ivho were both bitten in the face by the same rabid dog. The fii-st escaped the second died of hydi-ophobia. White, of Brighton, disbelieving in the contagioii of the disease, iiioculated himself Avith the saliva of a rabid dog Anth impunity. There is this important difference between the poisonous impregiiatiou of the wolnd b^the U a rabid dog and of a snake. In the case of the dog the poison is only adherent to the tooth, and hence, if this be wiped in its passage through clothing, the bite is rendered innocuous. In the case of the snake, ae poison is projected through the hollow fang, and hence, Avherever that