ACUTE AND SUBACUTE ENCEPHALITIS. 525 implicated at the same time. The most practical dhision of this disease fol- lowing- injury, is into the acute and the chronic or snlacute encephalitis. Acute Encephalitis usually comes on within eight-and-forty lioiu’S of the I infliction of the injury. The patient complains of severe, constant, and in- i creasing pain in his head ; the scalp is hot, the carotids beat forcibly, the pupils are contracted, the eyes intolerant of light, and the ears of noise ; the pulse is full, A-ibrating, and bounding ; and wakefulness, with delirium, usually of a , A-iolent character, speedily comes on. All the symptoms of severe constitutional 1 pyrexia set in at the same time. Under active and proper treatment, this condition may gradually subside until the health is re-established, but more commonly the symptoms of inflam- mation merge into those of compression : the delirimn becoming replaced partly or entirely by stupor, from which the patient is roused with difficulty, the pupils gradually dilating, the breathing becoming heavy and stertorous, the pulse sometimes continuing with its former rapidity, at others beeoming slow and ojjpressed. The skin is hot but clammy ; the patient falls into a heavy, dull, unconscious state, ivhich alternates with commlsive twitchings or jerkings, and occasional delirious outbreaks. As death approaches, the sphincters become relaxed, the pulse more feeble, the sm-face cooler, and the coma more intense and continuous, until the patient sinks from exhaustion and compression con- joined. In cases of this kind, pus may be found upon the surface or within the substance of the brain, in one case being diffused, in the other collected into a more or less distinctly circumscribed abscess. In other cases, again, the symp- toms of compression appear to be induced by a thick layer of lymph lying upon the siu’face of the brain, or by a quantity of serous fluid being poured out into the ventricles and about the base. Chronic or Subacute Encephalitis is the most interesting and important variety of inflammation following injimies of the head. It may come on a foAv days after the infliction of the injury, or not until months have elapsed. It may arise fr-om accidents that simply impheate the skull, as weU as from those that directly affect the brain and its membranes. The patient in many cases has apparently recovered entirely from the accident, though in others it will be found that some one symptom indicative of the brooding mischief still con- tinues, such as headache, or impairment of sight or of hearing. Occasionally, the comijig mischief is foreshadowed by unusual irritability of temper, by loss of mental vigom-, or by some other functional distimbance of the brain. In such cases, the subacute encephalitis may suddenly come on, ushered in per- haps by .an aggravation of the persistent symptom, or by an epileptic fit. In other cases, the symptoms set in suddenly without any w^arning, but usually Avith much intensity, and speedily prove fatal. The Symptoms of subacute encephalitis, Avhen it has fairly set in, consist of those of inflammation, irritation, and compression of the brain con joined ; in some cases one, in other instances another, of the conditions appearing to pre- dominate. The in-itation and inflammation proceed from the increased A'ascular setion ; the compression from the effusion of serous fluid, or pus, or of lymph. The symptoms consist of pain in the head Avith heat of the scalp, and either dilatation or contraction of the pupils, occasionally one being dilated and the other contracted. Squinting, intolerance of light, delirium, moanino- or