TUMOURS. SoS I or years of comptu-ative case, though he may be fully aware that, at tlm expiration ot that time, the attcction may retm-ii, and will then certainly prove latal. Even under these circumstances, the patient’s condition may be much improved ; for the recurrent is frequently less distressing than the primary disease, since, as it often takes place in internal organs, it is not attended with the same amount of local pain and distress. In discussing the propriety of operating in a case of cancer, the Surgeon can, however, have little to do with general or abstract considerations. He has to deterrnine what had best be done in the particular case ; and it wll serve him little, in coming to a conclusion as to the line of practice that he should adopt, to refer to the statistics of the gross results of operations, or to general com- parisons between the results of cases that are not operated upon and those that are. The whole question narrows itself to the point, as to what should best be done in order to jirolong tlie life, or relieve the sufPering, of the particular individual whose case is being considered. In order to come to some definite conclusion on this, it is necessary to classify the different cases of cancer, and to arrange them under the heads of those in which no operation is justifiable ; those in which the result of any such procediu'e would be very doubtful; and those in which an operation is attended with a fair prospect of success. 1. Cases not proper for Opieration.—a. The operation ought never to bo per- formed in cases where several cancerous tumours exist in different parts of the body at the same time. Here the disease is evidently constitutional, and can- not be eradicated by any series of operations, h. If the cancerous cachexy be strongly marked, or if the disease be hereditary, it is useless to remove a local affection ; as the malignant action will certainly manifest itself elsewhere, or, perhaps, even speedily retimi in the cicatrix, c. If the timioim be of very rapid growth, and be still increasing, there would appear to be so vigorous a local tendency to cancerous deposit, that it will speedily develop itself again in the cicatrix, d. If the tumour be so situated that it cannot be completely and entirely extirpated by cutting widely into the surrounding parts, it ought not to be meddled with ; othenvise the affection will to a certainty return in the wound before it has closed. It is necessary to remove not only the tumour, but the surrounding tissues to some extent, even though apparently healthy. e. If the whole of the affected organ, as a bone, cannot be removed, or if the skin and glands be involved, it is useless to attempt the extirpation of the growth, as a speedy relapse will certainly ensue. /. In the very chronic and indurated cancers of old people, it is often well not to interfere, as in these cases the affection makes such slow progress, that it does not appear in any way to shorten life, and the mere operation might be attended with serious risk at an advanced age. 2. Doubtful Cases.—Those cases in which the result of an operation is extremely doubtful, but in which no other means offer the shghtest px’ospect of relief, have next to be considered, a. Cancers of the eye, tongue, and testes, belong to this category ; for, though more liable to return than similar affec- tions of any other part of the body, yet they may be considered fit cases for operation, inasmuch as in no other way has the jxatient the slightest chance of being relieved from his disease, b. In cancers that ara already ulcerated, the Surgeon may sometimes operate in order to giA'e the patient ease from jxi’esent