OVERCROWDING TO BE AVOIDED. 9 This fact is abundantly proA'cd Ijy the experience of all military sm-geons ; and I have had occasion to notice it in ordinary hospital practice. It has been found in the wards of University College Hospital that, if the number ot patients suttering from suppurating wounds exceeds a certain proportion of the cases, septic disease will inevitably be engendered. Overcroivding of patients after operations is thus one of the most fertile causes of disease and death; for the over-crowding of wounded people,^ whether the wounds be accidental or sm-gical, Avill inexhtably produce one of the four septic diseases — phagedaena, septicemia, pyemia, or erysipelas. AVhen the word “ overcrowding ” is used in connection with sm-gical hygiene, it does not mean the heaping together of the sick and wounded in one building beyond what it is intended to hold ; but it means the accumulation in one ward or luider one roof of a gi-eater number of patients than is compatible Avdth such purity of air as to render the septic poison incapable of development or of propagation in it. The two great conditions to be attended to in the prevention of o^■cr- crowding are :—(1) Sufficient cubic space for each patient: and (2) an efficient system of ventilation. Both conditions are equally necessary. The s^acc afforded to each patient in the siu'gical ward of an hospital where l^atients with suppurating wounds are mixed with others suffering from such iujiu'ies as simple fractures, unattended by breach of siu’face, should be at least 1500 cubic feet, and this should be changed by ventilation, once, if not twice, in the hour. If the proportion of simple cases be great, less than this may be safe ; but if the majority of the patients have suppm-ating wounds, more s]Dace, as much as 2000 cubic feet, must be allowed. Whenever we have had an outbreak of the low sm-gical diseases—of erysipelas, sloughing phage- dasna, or pyaemia—in the wards at University College Hospital, it has been owing to the accidental and, perhaps, unavoidable accumulation of a large number of serious injm-ies or of operation-cases in one ward, so that, although the cubic space for each patient remained the same as usual, it became inadequate owing to the peculiar gravity of the cases. It is then the natiu-e of the injuries and diseases rather than the mere number of the patients that vitiates the air of a ward. Hot only, however, is space required, but change of air, by proper ventilation, is equally needful. For, however large the cubic space for patients, the air, if not changed rapidly enough, soon becomes loaded with animal exhalations, and highly insalubrious. Hence care should be taken that a fr-ee cmTcnt of pm-e air through the ward be maintained dayaild night. It is fr-om w'ant of this precaution during night especially that much mischief often results. Ihe importance of maintaining efficient ventilation during night, and the little danger to be apprehended from the admission of cold night air, have been so forcibly pointed out by Miss Nightingale in her Notes on Nursing, and are now so imiversally admitted, that I need not do more than add the testimony of my experience to the truth of her obser\-ations. In cold weather, also, there is so gi-eat a disposition on the part of nm-ses and patients to shut up wards and rooms, that the air becomes close, oppressive, and contaminated ; and hence it is that the erysipelatous and miasmatic diseases are so rife uring winter and early spring. The “ East Wind ” is commonly accused of .being the cause of these ; and no doubt it is so, but only indirectly, by causing