346 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. escapes from the aperture, or when the interior of the articulation is ex- posed. If there be any doubt as to the wound haring penetrated the synovial membrane, no attempt should be made to ascertain this by pro- bing or otherwise, as in this way the very occuiTence that is to be dreaded may be induced by the Surgeon. The question of the wound having pene- trated into the interior of the joint viU speedily be cleared up by the symptoms that supervene. Symptoms and Effects.—The severity of the wound of a joint depends not only on the size of the articulation, but on the nature of the Avound, and the age and health of the patient. Surgical Avounds of joints for the pmpose of removing loose cartilages may usually be made with perfect safety, if proper precautions be taken to prevent the intrusion of air. So also there are many cases on record in which joints have been opened for the removal of foreign bodies—as needles—and perfectly moA^able articulations left. But Avith joints laid open as the result of accidents, the consequences are usually not so faA'ourable. This may be OAving to many causes, such not only as the free admission of air, but also of dirt and foreign bodies likely to excite inflammation. When a small joint, as that of one of the fingers, is opened, the injmy may often be recovered from, Avithout destruction of the articulation. When a large joint is opened, even by a small incised or punctm’ed wound, there is great danger lest such extensive local mischief and constitutional distmbance should ensue as to lead to the destruction of the articulation, Avith danger to the patient’s life. When the wound is large, lacerated, or contused, Avith fr'actiu’e of the articular ends of the bones, one or other of these consequences will certainly folloAV. It is especially in adults that these unfavourable results ensue : in children, extensfre injuries of large joints may heal favoiuably ; though, if the child be of a striunous habit, destructive action is apt to be set up. Traumatic Arthritis.—The som’ce of danger in a wounded joint is the inflammation set up in the articulation. A fcAA' hours after the urfliction of the injmy the joint swells, becomes hot and painful, and throbs. If, imder proper treatment, resolution be effected, these inflammatory symptoms Avill gradually subside, leaAung the articulation Aveak, tender, and stiff for some considerable time. Should, however, the inflammation continue, the pain increases, becom- ing tensive and excessively severe. If the apertm-e be large, synoAua fr-eely escapes) which soon becomes mixed Avith inflammatory products. If it be small, little more than a punctiue, the joint swells, and fills Avith pm-iflent fluid, which AviU either escape through the original wound, or find an outlet for itself through a new opening. There are startings in the limb, which is flexed, Avith excessive pain in any attempt at moving it. The co^titutiou distmbance becomes very severe, the patient being occasionally carried off by tne violence of the initative fever. In other cases symptoms of piuulent absorp- tion come on, and death results from pyaimia. If the patient em-yive this period of aente action, ntaoesses may form armmd and above the ai’ticnlation ; and the discharge fiom these, as ne as y ® joint, induces irritative fever and hectic. Should this danger lie passe 'OUj, ,