145 HECTIC, ABSCESS. somewhat intermittent character, and its intensity lessens, the pulse becoming- soft, though quick. The temperature is habitually above normal and rises considerably, perhaps up to 104 F., with tolerable regularity at one period of the day, and especially during the occiuTcnce of rigors. If pus be formed in sufficient quantity for its discharge to act as a severe di-ain on the constitution, other symptoms set in, dependent on the loss that is going on. The patient becomes Aveak, the nutrition is impaired, and hectic is established. Hectic does not come on unless there be a discharge of pus from the system. No hectic occiu-s so long as an abscess, however large, continues unopened; but it may supervene vdth great rapidity when once its contents are discharged. I have known large abscesses to exist unopened for several years, AAuthout any constitutional disturbance; but, as soon as they were opened, well-marked hectic set in, which speedily carried off the patient. Hectic is essentially a fever of debihty, conjoined vdth irritation. Emacia- tion and general loss of power invariably accompany it. The pulse, which is quick, small, and compressible, rises from ten to twenty beats above its normal standard ; the tongue becomes red at the edges and tip ; the cheeks are often flushed, and the eyes glistening, Avith dilated pupils ; all these symptoms have <i tendency to exacerbations after meals and towards evening. There is also increased action, either of the skin, bowels, or kidneys. Thus, profuse sweating, copious pinging, and abundant deposits of lithates in the mine take place ; these dischai’ges often alternate with one another, as it were, melting the patient away, and hence are termed coUiquative. The debility gradually increasing, the patient rapidly wastes, and at last dies from sheer exhaustion, the conjoined result of fever, mahxutritiou, and wasting discharges. In some cases of extensive suppination, especially in childicn, hectic does not occm, but marasmus or atrophy takes place Avith amyloid degeneration of the viscera,, more especially the liver, the child Avasting away Avithout fever, and being carried off at last by exhaustion or some interemnent disease. SuiApuration may occm on the mucous or serous surfaces, or on the surfaces cf ulcers or Avounds, constituting Purulent Secretion or Exudation; or pus may be collected m the interior of a tissue of an organ, forming an Alscess. n Abscess signifies a collection of jms occurring in any of the tissues or organs 0 t e body. In structme, an abscess consists of an accumula- tion of pus situated in the midst of, and smrounded on all sides by, a layer of bmic deposited in and consolidating the neighbouring tissues. This lymph, I 1C cons 1 utes t e tuall of the abscess, varies greatly in thickness and con- perceptible, in others some hues in mrf- ° coiTcsponding firmness, constituting perhaps the principal part of the mass This wall of ‘qimitiug fibrine ” is veiy vascular in roZZ-Ll H-estaoZ’mto Hi-Tv. f ^ into various kinds, accordino-to the .mptorns attending them, their duration, and their cause. TCtW spea^ and Acute or ruegmonous Abscess may be taken as the tyije of the disease.