3 0 2 7SS bony tumours. and absorbed, and is involved in the general mass of the tumour. ^\ hen occurrinf>- in celhdar regions unconnected with bone, the cncliondroma is softer, and does"not present such distinct cartilage-cells as the osseous enchondroma. Most trequcntly these euchondromatous masses occur in childhood, or shortly ifter puberty, appearing to arise from an overgrowth of the cartilaginous element of the osseous system at this period of life. d’he TvBCifviBiit consists cither in excision of the tumour, or in amputation of the affected part. Excision may be practised when the tumour is seated in the parotid region, or otherwise unconnected with bone. When fomiing part of the osseous structures, it cannot well be got rid of without the removal by amputation of the bone that it implicates. When it occurs in the hand, removal of the affected fingers and metacarpal bones, to an extent proportioned to the amount of the disease, Avill be required ; but it should be remembered that in this situation enchondromata are always peifectly innocent, and con- sequently the operation should not be performed if the fingei be useful to the patient, unless he is willing to sacrifice an useful finger to get rid of an unsightly deformity. In Fig. 26 may be seen the kind of hand left after operation in the case ' from which Fig. 283 was taken. If, in these circumstances, excision of the tumour only be attempted, it will be found that the whole mass cannot be removed, and that it rapidly gTOws again ; or that the wound formed by the operation remains fistulous and open. Most commonly a permanent cure is effected by the ablation of the tumour in one or other of these ways ; but cases have occurred amongst the niore rapidly groA\ung varieties of enchondroma, especially when seated in glands, and when the growth is not purely cartilaginous, in which recirrrence has taken place after operation, the secondary tumour being softer than the primary, with a close approximation to malignancy in appearance and action. (cl) Osteoma. Exostosis. Bony Tumour.—In order to render the review of the different varieties of tumour complete, it will be be necessary briefly to mention the osteomata in this place, though their clinical characters will be more fully treated of in the chapter on the Diseases of Bones. In the first place, it is necessary accurately to distinguish mere calcification from the formation of true bone. The former is extremely common, the latter some- what rare. Bone appears in tumours under foiu’ chief conditions ; 1 st, as the result of the ossification of a fibroma ; 2nd, of a sarcoma ; 3rd, of an eu- chondroma; and 4th, as a special growth covered Avith a firm layer of perios- teum. Bone has also been described as occun'ing in connection with carcinoma ; I but this assertion requires confirmation since the separation of sarcoma and carcinoma. Only the last two forms mentioned above are usually spoken of I as bony tumours or exostoses. They differ essentially from each other in their il seat and consistence, as Avell as in their mode of growth. Those developing fr’om j cartilage or spongy exostoses, are situated almost invariably in the inuuediate neighbourhood of an epiphysis, and rarely, if ever, start into growth after the tAvonty-fourth year; those developing from a fibrous periosteal covering, ivory exostoses, are of extreme and remarkable density, and arc usually seated on flat bones, such as those of the head, face, scapula, and pelvis. Both these growths closely resemble normal bone in structure, the spongy exostosis exactly