SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 7S fli-st and second motatol to f„v b„nk as possiUo ; it is then can-ied 011\aids upon the ball ol the great toe, to a point opposite to the ivcb between the toes, and thence made to sink into the sole of the foot in a line parallel to the outer margin of the bone j the flap thim formed is dissected back, its plantar aspect being kept as thick and fleshy as possible (Fig. 30). The Sm-- geon next passes the luiife betM'een the first and second metatarsal bones, and cuts directly forwards through the centre of the angle between the great and the second toes. In doing this, care must be taken that the edge of the knife is not directed too much toM'ards the metatarsal bone of the great toe, lest it hitch against one of the sesamoid bones. The Surgeon next seizes the extremity of the toe, and, pulling ifc well inwards, passes the point of the bistoury deeply into the angle of the wound (Fig. 39), where, by the dbision ■of some tendinous and ligamentous fibres that constitute the key of the joint, he opens the articulation, and detaches the bone by lightly touching its ligamentous attachments. By keeping the edge of the knife well against the side of the bone, he may a^'oid Avomiding the dorsal artery of the foot, the bleeding from which would be troublesome. When the bone is to be partially removed, the operation must be performed in the same way ; the in- cisions, however, not being carried so far backwards. 2. In Amimtation hy the Oval Mefliocl, the point of the bistoury is errtered in the dorsrmr of the foot, just behirrd the tarsal errd of the borre. Arr incisiorr is Fig. 39.—Removar of Metatav.sal Roue of Greit Toe : Flap fonned : Joint being oiiened. Fig. 40.—Amputation of tlie Great Toe by Oval Method. carried up to the digital interspace, arrd is made to circle rorrird the base ot the first phalanx, so as to joiir the first hire of incision on the dorsum (Fig. 40). The soft structiu’os on the inner side are then dissected down, the knife being kept close to the bone. The same process is carried on at the outer side, the