344 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. CHAPTEK XIX. INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. INJUEIES OP BONES. A BO¥E may be bruised, bent, cut, or fractured. Bruising of the Bone and Periosteum often occm’s, and is usually ot no great moment. A moderate contusion, however, of a bone that is but thinly covered, as the shin or elbow, may give rise to troublesome symptoms from inflammation of the periosteum. If the contusion be severe, the vitality of a layer, or even of the whole substance of the bone, may be destroyed, as happens sometimes from the graae or contusion of a bullet; or the bone may become deeply inflamed, and suppuration take place in its cancellous structure. In old people, the contusion of a bone is frequently followed by atrophy and shortening, as happens in the neck of the femm’; in strumous constitu- tions, it may lead to serious disease of the bone, ending in its complete diBorganisation. In the Treatment of bruised bone, leeches and fomentations are the most important means that we possess. The consequences 'will be considered when we come to speak of necrosis. Bending of Bone may occur in two conditions, viz.: without or with fracture. Bending without fracture is most commonly met with in very young subjects, before the completion of ossiflcation ; the bone being healthy, but naturally soft, at this period of hfe. It occasionally takes place in adidt life, but is then the result of some structm’al change, by which the natmal firmness of the osseous tissue is diminished. The bending most commonly occurs in the long or slender bones, especially the clavicle, the radius, and the femur, but sometimes is met with in the flat bones, or those of the skuU, in which depression takes place from a blow without fracture having occurred. In many cases of bending both of long and of flat bones, there is partial fractm’e on the convex side—the “ green-stick fractime ” (see page 354). The Treatment is simple : the Sm-geon gradually straightens the bone, by applying a splint on its concave side, towards which the bone is pressed by a bandage and a pad applied upon its greatest convexity. Fractures will be described in the following two chapters. INJUEIES OF JOINTS. Contusions.—Joints are often contused by kicks, falls, or blows, so as to be severely injiu-ed, giving rise to much pain, and consecutive inflammation of the capsule, synovial membrane, or other structures entering into their forma- tion. As a result of contusion the joint may be suddenly distended with