CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 207 the separation of the sloughs must be accelerated l)j poultices, whilst the powers of the patient are sustained by liberal diet, with the free administration of stimulants. Putrefaction and foetor must be combated by the use of lotions containing carbolic acid or some other antiseptic. In very se^•ere cases of traumatic inflammation, especially in wounds impli- cating the joints, compression or ligature of the main trunk leading to the seat of injury has been practised, wth the object of limiting the quantity of blood in the tissues, and regulating the circulation through them, so that the processes of repair can be more rapidly entered on. For further remarks on this subject, the reader is referred to page 130. Paxilty Cicatrices may give rise to much disfigiu’ement from excessive or irregular contraction ; and various plastic operations, which will be described more fully hereafter, are recorded to remedy this inconvenience. Much benefit will occasionally result from excising the cicatrix, and then bringing together the opposite edges of the wound in an uniform smooth line. Should it be too large for this, if flat, it must be less; if angular, as the flexure of a joint, it may be divided doAvn to the sound structiu'es beneath, aud the gap thus left filled by a Haj) of integument dissected fi-om the neighbouring parts and tmsted into it. Again, in certain situations on the tiauik, cicatrices 'will yield before the pressure of the viscera aud thus give rise to herniEe. In some cases they remain weak, thiu, and .tender for a considerable period, nuth constant tendency to break domi ; these conditions of cicatrices are generally due to constitutional causes. They may also become painful, or be the seat of pigmentary deposits. In other rare instances they undergo a species of hypertrophy of a non-malignant character, chiefly met with after bums, which is called spurious or AUherfs Moid, to distinguish it from true keloid, that does not attack scars. This con- dition may call for surgical interference, but it often disappears spontaneously. CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. These may be defined to be wounds that are attended by more or less bruising aljout the edges and sides; presenting every possible variety in the degree of contusion and of Avoimd, from a cut on the shin to the crushing and laceration of a limb by a cannon-shot. They are commonly inflicted by blimt cutting instraments, as by a hatchet, or by stones, bludgeons, etc. Lacerations by machinery, in which parts are tom oif or crushed, the bites aud gorings of animals, and gun-shot injuries of all kinds, come luidcr this denomination. Characters.—I^Tiatever their mode of infliction, these Avomids present certain characters in common, by Avhich they differ from all other injuries. Their lips are in’cgular and torn, less gaping than incised Avounds, but surrounded by more or less ecchymosis and contusion, AAnth a tendency to slough at their sides, ihcre is usually but little haemoiThage, and the lAain is of an aching or dull character. In consequence of the sloughy state of the lips and sides, these Avoimds almost ahvays imite by the second intention. Contused and lacerated Avounds present peculiarities according to the mode of their infliction. hejv they arc occasioned by the l)ite of a large auimal, the part injured l)ccomc8 very painful, and inflames extcnsiA'ely ; the Avound being lacerated, much contused, aud often penetrating deeply. It sloughs in consequence of