3°5 SEC ON DA R Y HjEMORREA GE. assume a somo^'liafc clironic character. The condition of the blood in pymmia beino- incompatible with the formation of a firm and plastic coagulum mthin the artery, the vessel continues or becomes open, and secondary hmmorrhage will certainly occur. In some cases the secondary hemorrhage appears to be due to an excited state of the circulation. The patient is restless, and has a quick, irritable, and jerking pulse. In such circumstances, bleeding is very apt to occur, and, if not too abimdant, appears to give relief to the system. The occurrence of erysipelas, phlelitis, or sloughing of the stump or tuound, will prevent or arrest the necessary adhesive action. The sloughing action set up in a woimd may extend to the larger arteries, and by destroying their coats occasion secondary hmmoiThage. But it must be borne in mind that the arterial tissues are usually the last of the soft tissues to slough. An artery will continue to pulsate in a wound, and preserve its integrity while all the adjacent tissues are sloughy and disorganised. Phenomena.—The occiu’rence of secondary htemori’hage is usually some- what gradual, and not without warning. The blood does not burst forth in a sudden gush, but appears at first in a small quantity, oozing out of the wound and staining the dressings ; it may then cease to flow for a time, but breaks out again in the course of a few hours, welhug up freely in the wound, and either exhausting the patient by repeated losses, attended by the phenomena that characterise haemoirhagic fever, or else debihtating him so that he falls a ■victim to some asthenic disease, such as pneumonia, erysipelas, or phlebitis. In other cases again, after a few warnings, the blood may biu'st out in a gush- ing stream that at once destroys hfe. The opportunities which I have had of examining the state of the vessels in several cases of fatal secondary hemorrhage, lead me fully to concur 'with Guthrie and Porter, that the blood in the great majority of instances comes Irom the distal and not fi’om the proximal side of the wound. The greater tendency in the distal end of the vessel to bleed, appears to arise partly from the less perfect occlusion of this portion of the artery, and partly from its greater hability to slough, in consequence of the hgatm’e interrupting its supply of blood through the vasa vasormn. It is no objection to this opinion that the fatal heemorrhage is often arterial; for, though it is true that the blood which is carried to the distal end is, for the first few days after the ap- plication of a hgatiu’e, of a venous hue, yet, after the collateral circulation is once finely established, it gTadually assumes a more scarlet tint, and at last becomes completely arterialised. Periods at whicli it occurs.—Secondary hemorrhage may come on at any time between the application of the hgature and the closure of the woimd. There are, however, three periods at which it is particularly apt to occm*:— 1, a few hours after the ligatm’e has been aj)phed ; 2, about the period of the separation of the ligature ; and, 3, at an indefinite time after its separation. 1. The htemoiThage which occurs a few hours after the application of the ligature, commonly called reactionary or intermediate, comes on as the patient recovers fr-om the depressing influence of the chloroform or fi'om the shock of the operation, and arises from some imperfection in the tying of the jgatme. That which ocems some days afterwards arises from diseai in the VOL, I, X