limiOmUlAGE INTO ABSCESSES. 157 Ifc is not to be imagined that in all cases this mode of treatment will entirely prevent the formation of pus after the opening of an abscess, as, although tension may be removed and decomposition may be prevented, other causes of irritation may be present; but, in all cases, the constitutional disturbance will be gi’eatly diminished by the prevention of the irritation necessarily resulting from the presence of fetid discharges in the cavity of the abscess and about the woiuid. If the discharge do not escape freely a common India-rubber drainage tube may be inserted, after being soaked for 24 hoiu’s in a concentrated watery solution of carbolic acid. If, as occurs in rare cases, decomposition has occuiTed in the abscess before it is opened, it may be corrected by injecting the sac of the abscess with some antiseptic agent, and for this piu’pose forty grains of chloride of zinc to one ounce of w^ater will usually be found the most effectual. Of the great value of this method of treatment, more esj)eciaUy in the case of chronic and cold abscess, there can be no doubt in the mind of any one w’ho has given it a fair trial. By the “ Antiseptic Method,” properly carried out, and in accordance with a scrupulous attention, to those details that are necessary for its successful employment, it will be found that the formation of pns speedily diminishes, that the danger of its decomposition is removed, and that the chance of constitutional initation is conseqirently greatly lessened if it be not entirely removed—that those dangers, in fact, wfrich are apt to result from the opening up of large suppinating cavities are greatly obviated by the use of antiseptic dressings. Constitutional Treatment.—With the \dew' of preventing the occinrence of suppuration, w^e must be carefrd to maintain the pow'ers of the system, and not to reduce the patient too much, even if the inflammation be of a sthenic character at the outset. Suppuration is a condition of debility, and is especially predisposed to by any previously existing enfeebled state of the system, or by malnutrition. Another reason for the avoidance of the early employment of debilitating means is that, if suppm-ation once be established, the drain on the system may e^-entually be so considerable as to require all the patient’s powers to enable him to bear up against it. Hence they should be husbanded from the hrst. After the discharge has taken place, noinishing, tonic, and even stimiflating treatment will be required in proportion to the amount of debility a IS in uce . Amongst the most useful medicinal agents are mineral and vegetable tomes, the mineral acids, and cod-liver oil in the more chi-onic . stages. Attention to hygienic conditions, with change of air, and residence at e sea-side, arc also valuable. When hectic comes on, the same general tonic plan must be adopted, while w'e have recourse to means adapted to meet the oca sjmp oms. us, acids are required to check the sw'eating, astringents 0 arrest the dianfroea, and as much mild nourishment as the patient will bear to support the strength. Abscj:® is ..ot of u,ift.cquent occm- f I 1 ^ of blood from the vascular An ulcerated vein; 3. Ulceration or sloughil of Ihe coats of a neighbouring artery. °