126 I21FLA jl/JfA TIG N. severely injured, eolcl irrigation will be a preferable mode of reduciim its tem- perature. This may most com'eniently be done by suspending over"tbc part a large wide-mouthed bottle full of water, in whieh a few pieces of ice may, if necessaiy, be put; one end of a skein of cotton, well wetted, is then allowed'to. hang in the water, ivhilst the other end is brought over the side of the bottle. This, acting as a sy^ihon, causes a continual dropping upon the part to which the cold IS to be apphed (Fig. 69). In some cases the apphcation of pounded ice in a bladder, or of cold evaporating lotions, may be prefeiTed to the iiTigation. Dry cold may be adi-antageously substituted for the moist in many cases. It has the advantage of not soddening the skin, and is less likely to be followed by gangTene, which may result from the incautious or long- continued use of cold and moistine. The dry cold is best aiiplied by putting- pounded ice into a thin ^mlcauised India-rubber bag, as recommended by Esmarch. At the same time all constitutional irritation must be removed by abstinence, rest, and a fr’ec aperient. In undertaking the Curative Treatment of inflammation, the Singeon must not aUoAv himself to be led away by the name of the affection with which he has to do, but he must be influenced in the means that he adopts by the con- stitutional condition of the patient, by the type of the inflammatory fever, and by the state of the diseased part; for nothing presents greater variety than the management of the inflammatory process in different conditions of the patient, and in the different phases of the disease. We shall accordingly consider the treatment of acute inflammation as applied to the sthenic, the asthenic, and the irritative varieties of the disease. Treatment oe Acute Inflammation with Fever of the Sthenic Type. —In the treatment of this variety of the disease, active and energetic measines. must early be had recom’se to, especially if the patient be young and strong. There is no affection that is more imder the control of the Surgeon than this- Avhen it occiu’s in a healthy constitution, and none in which more can be done- by actiA'e means early employed. It is consequently of the first importance that precious time be not lost by the employment of inefficient measures ,- otherwise, important local changes and iiTemoA^able alterations of structure may ensue. It is also of gveat consequence to remove the disease fully; not only to- subdue it, but to extinguish it, lest it degenerate into some of the more chi-onic,. passive, and intractable forms. The first thing to be attended to in the treatment of the sthenic, and of all the other Amrieties of inflammation, is the removal of the cause. Thus, rest must be afforded to a diseased joint, light Avithheld fr-om an inflamed eye, and a foreign body taken out of the flesh in AA’hich it is lodged. The next great indication is to lessen the determination of blood to the part. The measines for accomplishing this comprise what has been termed the anti- fhlogistic. treatment. This consists of constitutional and local means. Constitutional Treatment.—The most poAverful and efficient means that Ave possess is certainly Blood-letting; and, Avhen the inflanmiation is sufficiently extensive and scA’cre, and the state of the patient’s poAvers Avarrant it, wc may haA'c rccoinsc to tlie abstraction of blood. But, as blood can easily be taken aAvay, but cannot readily be restored, avc should never remoA’e it unnecessarily,.