19 EFFECTS OF CHLOROFORM. scrcAV on the piston-rod to take np no more than the quantity determined on, which is usually from 30 to 40 minims. When the bag is full enough, the tube is removed from the evaporating vessel, and the mouthpiece (Fig. 1, 3) adapted to it. The patient cannot get a stronger dose than the bag is charged Avith ; but the proportion can be made any degree weaker, by regulating the size of an opening in the mouthpiece, which admits addi- tional air. The result of Clover’s experience with this instrument is of the most favourable character. He has administered this anesthetic in many thousand cases Avithout an accident of any kind. The principal points to be attended to dxu’ing the inhalation of this potent agent are, that it be not gix'en too suddenly, or in too concentrated a form ; and that, Avhilst under its influence, the patient be not raised into the erect or sitting position. If hut be used, it may be too much saturated, and be held too closely applied to the mouth and nostrils ; and the patient A\dll not be able to get sufficient air, and may speedily become partially asphyxiated, choking violently, strugghng to get free, and becoming purple in the face, with a full slow pidse. Care should be taken not to compress the abdomen in holding the patient; for, as the respiration becomes chiefly or. AvhoUy diaphragmatic, it may be seriously interrupted by any pressure on the abdominal wall. 'V\Tiilst under the influence of chloroform, the patient should neA’er be raised up, as has just been stated ; for, as this agent exercises a poAVcrful sedath’e action on the heart, sudden and perhaps fatal syncope may ensue from putting the patient into the erect position. Hence, also, it is dangerous to administer it in those operations that require to be performed Axffiilst the patient is erect. It is weU to caution the patient not to take anything to eat for three or foim hours before its administration, lest it induce vomiting of the partially digested meal. With due caution, it may be given with perfect safety to individuals of all ages. I have operated on infants less than a Aveek old, as AA^ell as on octo- genarians, under its iiffiuence. In administering it to young children. Snow recommends its dilution Avith rectified spirit, but this is unnecessary. The first influence of chloroform appears to be exercised upon the neiwous system. The patient becomes excited and talkative, and a state of uncon- sciousness is induced, the muscular system at the same time being rendered rigid and tense. At this time the heart’s action is usually quickened, and more forcible than natural. As the administration of the chloroform continues, hoAveAer, complete paralysis of sensation and motion is induced. The patient becomes altogether unconscious to all external impressions, the muscles become relaxed, and the action of the heart sIoaa’’ and feeble. This diminution in the power of the heart’s action is well marked in the lessened force of the jet of blood from cut arteries. The respirations become shalloAV and feeble, in pro- portion as the sensibility of the nervous system and the energy of the muscular movements are lessened, and the blood in the arteries becomes dark ; in fact, a semi-asphyxial state sets in. When thus fully anarsthetised, the patient is undoubtedly on the very verge of death, and requires the most careful Avatchiuo- by the person Avho administers the chloroform ; his fingers should iieA'er bo off the pulse, nor his eyes taken aAvay from the countenance of the patient. The Jreathmg should be very carefully observed : when it becomes cmbaiTassed