932 NyEVUS. aneurism and that by anastomosis. In many cases the situation of tlie tumour at a distance from any large trunk, as on the scalp, the outside of the thigh, or the gluteal region, ’^^^ll determine this. Again, the outline of the growth is less distinct than in true aneurism ; and tortuous vessels will be felt leading to it from different directions. The swelling also is doughy and very com- pressible ; but, when the pressure is removed, the blood enters it with a whiz and thrill, not with the distinct pulsating stroke that is found in anem-ism. The pulsation, not so forcible as in aneurism, is more heaving and expansive. The bruit is louder, and more superficial, sometimes having a cooing note. By pressiu’e on the arteries leading to the tumour those signs are usually not entirely aiTested, though diminished in force, the blood entering it from the neighbouring parts, and in a less direct way. Treatment.—The treatment of aneurism by anastomosis must depend npon the size and situation of the growth. When it is so placed that it can be ligatured or excised, as on the lip, or when small, about the neck, face, or scalp, trunk, or extremities, it should be removed. I always prefer the ligature, applied as Avill immediately be described, as being the safest, and upon the whole the readiest mode of removing such a tumour. If excision be practised, it is necessary to be very careful to cut widely of the disease ; if it be cut into, fearful haemorrhage may ensue, which can only be arrested by pressine, and which in several instances has proved fatal. If the disease be very large and extended, as is commonly seen on the scalp, or if deeply seated, as in the orbit, neither ligatine nor excision of the tumour can be practised, and it becomes necessary to starve it by cutting off its supply of blood. This may be done either by ligaturing the p-mdpal branches leading to it, or the main trunlc of the limb or part. Simple ligature of the arterial branches leading to the tumour has never, I believe, been followed by success ; at least, in ten recorded instances in which it has been had recourse to, the disease has not in one instance been cm-ed. It has, however, been successfully conjoined by Gibson in two cases of aneinism by anastomosis of the scalp, with incisions made romid the tumour at intervals between the principal feeding arteries, which at the same time were tied. The main trunlc leading to the tumour has been ligatured in a considerable TmmbpT of cases. The brachial and femoral arteries haxe been tied for disease of this kind situated on the extremities, and in some instances with success ; but the carotid is the vessel that has been most frequently deligated, in con- sequence of the tiunour bemg commonly situated on the scalp and in the orbit. This operation has been done in twenty-three recorded cases, and in five instances both the carotids ivere ligatmnd at intervals of several weeks. _ In all of those cases in which the double operation was performed, the patients ultimately recovered. In some of the cases in which one carotid alone was tied, the disease, being seated upon the scalp, was not cured ; and it was after- wards found necessary to have recoinse to ligatm-e of the tumour, to excision, and to other means of removal; indeed, when seated upon the scalp, this disease appears to be more intractable than in any other part of the body, owino- probably to the freedom of the arterial supply from the numerous vessels that ramify in this region. Here, however, much benefit might be