TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURE. 383 trom the whole process of suppuration, with all its attendant e’S'ils. But the chance of closing the wound in the soft parts will vary greatly in different cases, depending chiefly on the way in which it has been produced, Avhether by trans- flxioii of the skin by the shaiiD angular fragment, or by the direct violence which has occasioned the fracture. If the Avound be small, clean cut, and occasioned by the protrusion of the fi’agmcnt rather than by the direct violence Avhich occasioned the fracture, aa'C may hope to succeed in our oliject byfolloAV- ing Sir A. Cooper’s recommendation of applying to it a piece of lint soaked in blood, or, AA’hat is better, satimatcd with collodion or Avith tincture of benzoin, and thus obtaining union by direct adhesion. The dressing should be left un- distmhed until it loosens of itself, at the end of a Aveek or tAAm, when the Avound Avill probably be found to be closed. With the double object of closing the Avound and of prcA'enting decomposition of its fluids by the entrance of organisms floating in the air. Lister recommends the employment of the antiseptic method (p. 198), from AAdiich good results haA'e been obtained. If the A\nund be large and lacerated, if a joint haA'e been opened, if the AAnimd have been inflicted by the same violence that has broken the bone, or if there be much bruising of the edges and suiToimding tissues, Avith extravasation into the limb, suppuration must necessarily ensue, and thus direct union camiot be expected to take place. In these chcumstances, it is in accordance Avith the best principles of surgery, not to folloAv the routine practice of attempting to close the wound, which can- not possibly unite by the flrst intention, but to treat it like auy other contused wound, and apply carbolised Avater-dressing from the very fli-st, so as to allow a Aunt for the discharges that will take place after the first four-and-tAventy hoirrs. If these be retained in the hmb by the external wound being kept closed by any dressing, Avhatever its natiue may be, deep infiltration of the areolar inter- muscular planes aaoU ensue, Avith much local tension and purulent infiltration, accompanied by scAcre constitutional irritation, followed probably by pyrnmia. It is, I believe, in consequence of the free Aunt thus afforded to the discharges, and of their retention being avoided, that many of the AAurst-looking cases of compound fracture—especially of the leg—those in Avhich there has been ex- tensive sloughing of the soft parts aroimd the Avomid, mth exposiue of the fiactured fragments, eventually do the best. The danger in such cases is a remote one, from hectic and exhaustion ; not an immediate and graA'e one, fiom erysipelas and purulent absorption, or septic poisoning, resulting from the infiltration of the limb. After the position of the limb and the management of the external wound have been attended to, an endeavour must be made to moderate the local in- flammatory action, and to lessen constitutional irritation. This is best effected by leaving the part undisturbed and untouched as long as jiossible. The great art in the successful treatment of compound fractures consists in not dis- tuibing the limb or meddhngAvith the Avound. Bor days or eA'oii AAueks the limb may sometimes advantageously be left AAdthout interference, AA'hen once it has leen carefully put up. Should, liOAveAnr, much SArelling haA'e taken jilacc and the wound show no disposition to heal by the first intention, but become inflamed and sloughy, and should much inflammatory action be set up in the limb' tluk may be moderated by in-igation (Fig. G9), and by the application of cold evano- latmg lotions. The part should be elevated and but lightly covered, the bid-