196 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. formed in diseased tissues in unhealthy constitutions may be hastened, and probably developed, by air that is perfectly pure, the cpiestion is in reality one of scientific and not of practical interest. For air is only found to lie chemi- cally and microscopically pure when it is artificially prepared for the puipose of experiment. In nature such a condition of the atmosphere does not exist—at least not Avithin reach of the habitations of man. Wherever man dAveUs, there the air becomes contaminated; and the amount of contamination in the air AA'ill, emteris parilus, be in the ratio of the density of the population on any given space. And it is as a medium or A'chiclc for the application of contaminating agents, generated by man and animals, and AA^hich, Avhen applied to open Avomids, and mixed AAdth their secretions, act as ferments and favoiu'ers of putrefaction, that ordinary atmospheric air acts so injuriously on Avounds. These contaminations contained in the atmosphere, as the result of human agencies, are of tAVO kinds—gaseous and solid. So far as AA'e knoAA", the gases that are admixed AAuth and deteriorate atmospheric air in its A'alue for the piu’poses of respiration, do not act injiniously on Avounds or on the secretions from injured smfaces. We must, therefore, look to the solid particles as the true infecting agents, conveyed to and implanted on the smface of open AA'ounds by the an, in Avhich they float suspended in countless myriads. Their existence in a state of suspension in the air has been proA^ed incontestably by the observations of Tyndall, and it has been shoAAUi that their iiatine AAill vary in different localities, according to the composition of the materials from Avhich they emanate. Their composition Avill necessarily A'ary in private houses and in pirblic buildings, in factories and in shops, in barracks and in hospitals. They are irrorganic and organic. The organic particles may be living or dead. But though dead, they may still be capable of infecting an open AA-ound on Avhich they are deposited. The epithelium of desquamating scarlatina, and the dried scab of the small-pox pustrde, thorrgh rrrrdorrbtedly dead organic matter, are irr the highest degvee irrfective. If this is so AAuth the prodrrets of these diseases, AA’e cannot suppose it is otherAAdse AAuth the orgarric emanatiorrs from erysipelas. pytemia, or hospital gangrene. Irr additiorr to organic atmospheric dust, by AA'hich AA^orurds may be infected, there are other forms of organic matter floatirrg irr the atmosphere of aU sick rooms arrd hospital Avards terrarrted by patierrts sufferirrg from acute febrile Avasting diseases, AA^hether of a septic type or not, Avhich rf rrot actually capable of infecting, can scarcely be prodrretive of healthy action on AA’ormds ^ exposed to their irrfiuence. The volrrmes of aqrreorrs vaporrr given off by a patient’s body in the SAA-eatirrg stages of the pyiemic paroxysm arc charged AAith orgarric matters, as the odorn aloire AA'ill tell us, in a state of decomposi- tion. The breath is loaded AAuth aqueous vapour, holding salts and other- matters in solution.* These arc Avidcly diffused through the air of Avar s or rooms, arrd may be equally productiA'e of local infcctiAC, as ley rrndoubtedly are of corrstitrrtional, disease. Who AArorrld AA'iUingly expose ca on a , cut finger to the emanations of pyaemia or the feetor of phagedama . an ye » The comvnsitinu of these excreta can nearly he ^c'^Tomul to tiiiK the rcsultins drops of fluid mid examining them nmler the microscope, n heu tut) iihound in crystals of salts, epithelium scales, and organic particles. 1