789 GEOGR APIIICAL DISTRIBUTION OF CANCER. The mode in Avhicli a local injury or source of in-itation produces a cancer is unknown Does it do so by some peculiarity of local action, or by a constitu- tiT"we of » eanoerons Uro ca,a,in,. what might othciavrsc pi'ove to be a Simple irritation to rssuine a malignant form ? The answer to involves the whole theory of the local or constitutional origin of cancel, to which I must refer the reader. (See next page.) . It is A-ery important to bear in mind that all tissues' and organs are not equally liable to cancer. Amongst the tissues, the skin and mucous meinteane and the parenchyma of organs are the favom^ed seats of the disease. It is a doubt Avhether it over occurs primarily in serous or synovial inembrau , muscle, or cartilage. . Every organ of the body is liable to the development of cancer. Eiit it ocem-s mosl frequently in the organs of reproduction—111 the mamma anc uterus of the female—in the penis and testis of the male. The tongue and certain portions of the intestinal tract—viz., the cardiac and pyloric orifices, the sigmoid flexure, and the lower part of the rectum and the anus—are favourite seats for the development of cancer. It has been obserA ed that in those organs which liai'C an intermittent functional activity, cancer is moie frequent than in others, and in them it is especially apt to occiu- at tbe periods of commencing senile degeneracy or functional disease. The Geographical Distribution of Cancer is a most interesting and important element in the problem of its origin, and by a closer study of it than has hitherto been made, I believe that much light may be thrmvn 011 this. Cancer appears to be a disease favoured by, if not actually dependent on, the aggregation of indhddiials under the influence of an advanced civilisation. Amongst savage tribes, as amongst wild animals, it is unknomi. In the great centres of ciAilisation, as amongst domesticated animals, it abounds. This circumstanee points certainly to the possibility of there being a parasitic origin for the disease—to the possibility, in fact, of its being originally an organism that has entered the body from without. Of this, hoivever, ive possess as yet no evidence. Cancer is said to be iinknoAvn in the frigid zone. The Esquimaux in the Western, and the Samoieds and other migratory tribes in the Eastern hemi- sphere, are equally exempt from it. Amongst the inhabitants of the torrid zone it also rarely occurs ; though in the more populous parts and the seats of an older civilisation, as in India, it is not unknown. But on this and other points connected Avith the gcogTaphical distribution of this fell scourge, we require additional and precise information. Cancer is certainly more common in Europe than in any other part of the ch-ilised world. In some parts of the United States of America and in China it also appears to be of frequent occuiTence, Avhilst in South America, in Africa (except Egypt), and in tbe greater part of Asia, it is not common. ilaviland has obtained very important results fronr the investigations of the tables of mortality of this country, Avith regard to the distribution of cancer in Great Britain ; and his investigations appear to lead to this conclusion, that geological formation, soil, and resulting endemic conditions exercise a marked influence on the development of cancer.