575 DEVELOrMENT OF SYMPTOMS. the limbs. It is evident, therefore, that loss of size in a limb that is more or less completely paralysed is not the simple consequence of the disuse of the muscles ; or it would always occur. But it must arise from some modification of innervation, influencing the nutrition of the limb, independently of the loss of its muscular activity. In most cases, however, where the paralytic condi- tion has been of some duration, the limb, on acciu’ate measurement, will be found to be somewhat smaller in circumference than its fellow on the opposite side. j\Iost eommonly when a limb dwindles the muscles become soft, and the intermuscular spaces more distinct. Occasionally, in advanced cases, some contraetion and rigidity in particular muscles set in. Thus the flexors of the little and ring fingers, the extensors of the great toe, the deltoid or the muscles of the calf, may all become more or less rigid and eontracted. The lody itself generally loses weight; and a loss of weight, Avhen the patient is rendered inactive by a semi-paralysed state, and takes a fair quantity of good food, which he digests sufiiciently wcU, may usually be taken to bo indicati^'e of progTessive disease in the nervous system. When the progTess of the disease has been arrested, though the patient may be permanently paralysed, a considerable increase of size and weight often takes place. This is a phenomenon of common occurrence in ordinary cases of paralysis from disease of the brain. The condition of the gen.ito-urincmj organs is seldom much deranged in the cases under oonsideration. Eetention of mine very rarely ocem’s. Some- times irritability of the bladder is a prominent symptom. The urine generally retains its acidity, sometimes markedly, at others but very slightly. As there is no retention, it does not become alkaline, ammoniacal, or other- wise offensive. The sexual desire and power are usually greatly impaired, and often entirely lost; not invariably so, however. I have never heard piiapism complained of. The contractifity of the spTiimter ani has not, in any case which I have observed, been so far impaired as to lead to involuntary escape of flatus or of fieces. The pulse v'aries in frequeney at different periods. In the early stages it is usually slow ; in the more advanced it is quick, near to, or above 100. It is always feeble. The Progressive Development of the various symptoms that have just been detailed usually extends over a lengthened period. In the early stages, the chief complaint is a sensation of lassitude, weariness, and inability for mental and physical exertion. Then come the pains, tinglings, and numbness of the imbs; next the fixed pain and rigidity of the spine ; then the mental coll- usion and signs of cerebral distiu’banee, and the affection of the organs of sense ; the loss of motor power, and the pecuharity of gait. ^ It is by^ this chain of symptoms, which, though fluctuating in intensity IS yet continuous and unbroken, that the injury sustained, and the ilhiess siiteequently developed, can be linked together in the relation of cause and effect. _ . ATHOLOGICAL Coifi)iTiojj-s.—Two distinct forms of chronic and subacute in ammation may affect the contents of the spinal canal, as the results of injiuw ^^^fl™^"tion of the Membranes, and Inflammation of the