160 ULCERATION. CHAPTER VI. ■—i— * ULCERATION. I Ulceration is that process by which a solution of continuity wth loss of •substance, attended ndth the secretion of ichorous pus, is produced by molecular death of the superficial tissues. It may be the result either of some influence acting in the part itself, or of the destruction of the part by the sudden appli- cation of chemical agents. Two distinct stages attended by the most opposite . phenomena are described as constituting the process of ulceration ; viz., 1, the period of Destruction; 2, the period of Rejjair. To the first only can the term ulceration be properly applied, the stage of repair being one of deposition. The term ulceration is applied to the destruction of superficial tissues; although . the process may be regarded as having a close analogy nith the destruction of tissue which attends suppination within the textm-e or substance of parts. It is most common on the cutaneous and mucous surfaces, but occins likewise on the lining membrane of blood-vessels and on serous membranes. Ulceration is so intimately allied with sloughing and gangrene, that it is very difficult to separate its causes from those of these other conditions. Causes.—The Predisposing Causes of ulceration are chiefly found in those conditions that interfere in any way vith the nutrition of a part. A feeble circulation, such as often exists in the lower limbs, in the alae of the nose, and in newly formed or recently cicatrised tissues, predisposes to the formation of ulcers. As age advances, nutrition becomes impaired and the circulation less active, and slight causes suffice to disintegrate the structiue of a part; and mahiutrition, or loss of imiervation from any cause, by lessening the vitality and the resisting power of tissues, increases the tendency to ulceration. Hence we commonly see ulcers of the legs in elderly people, more particularly amongst the poorer classes, arising from slight in’itation or pressure. In the dogs that Magendie starved by feeding them on sugar, gum, or oil and distilled water, ulceration of the cornea occurred. This must have been the result of simple malnutrition, rather than of inflammation. ^ 1 Tissues that have been congested for a long time are apt to inflame under the influence of some trifling excitmg cause, and to run rapidly into ulceration. This usually commences in the centre of the part, where the nutrient action is lowest; here a small sore fonns, which exudes thin unhealthy pus, and rapidly extends. So long as the sore is inflamed, it continues to spread, and lepaiatioii cannot take place. It would appear as if even a moderate degree ot inflamma- tion were too intense for the vitality of chronically congested tissues, 01 of those in which lowly organised fibrine has been effused. Ihe more the Aitality of a tissue is reduced, the less appears to be the degree of inflammation that is