8i6 TUMOURS. surface is large, and indurated at its base or edge. The acid nitrate of mercury should only be employed when the sore is small, supei-ficial, in-egular, and without much induration. In such cases also, the arsenical pastes and powders already described are very useful. AYhen a recurrence takes place after operation for epithelioma, it is either by a fresh deposit of cancerous matter in the cicatrix, or else by the neighbouring lymphatic glands which had been contaminated before the operation, continuing to enlarge and at last ulcerating, and thus destroying the patient by cachexy and exhaustion, but (except in very rare cases) without the occiu-rence of secondary deposits in internal organs. Recurrence.—Epithelioma, when it recurs after removal by operation, may do so in three different ways. 1. By Local Reproduction.—This is the most ordinary mode ofrecuiTence— the disease appearing again after a time in the cicatrix, or in neighbom-ing lymphatic glands which are on a bne with the cicatrix, whether reproduction have taken place in it or not. In this mode of recinTence it is probable that epitheliomatous. cells had either been disseminated more widely than was suj)posed in tissues that appeared healthy, and thus developed anew in the lips of the wound after cicatrisation, or that they had previously been deposited in the lymphatic glands and there had developed afresh. When reproduction of the disease takes place in this local manner, it is usually rapid within a few weeks, or at most, months, of the operation, and death is speedy from haemor- rhage, blood-contamination, and exhaustion. 2. By Nciylibouring hut not Local Reproduction.—would appear as if in some cases there was a tendency to epitheliomatous disease in a particular region of the body, Avhich becomes more or less widely affected in different parts in a consecutive manner. Thus I have seen after the removal of an epithelioma of the lip on one side, recurrence of the disease inside the mouth on the other side ; or after the removal of an epithehoma on one side of the face, retinn of the disease in the cervical lymphatic glands on the opposite side. This method of recm-rence is slower than the fii-st. I have seen fr-om three to four years elapse between the removal of the epithehoma on the left side of the lower lip and its recurrence inside the right cheek. 3. By Distant Recurrence either on the surface of the body or in internal organs. This distant recinrence is not, in my experience, so common as the other methods. But I have seen, after removal of an epitheliomatous tongue, recurrence in one of the toes, and in the lung, after a lapse of neaily two years ; and also deposits in internal organs as recurrences after removal of superficial epithelioma. Adenoid Cancer. Columnar Epithelioma.—This form of cancer bears the same relation to the papilloma of the intestine that the squamous epithe- lioma does to a common wart or corn on the skin. It is confined to those reo-ions which are naturally covered by columnar epithelium. It may come under the care of the Siu-geon in the rectimi, or, by causing obstruction of the sigmoid flexiu’o or colon, it may call for the operation of colotomy. 1 le tumour has a somewhat firm fleshy base, and is usuaUy papillary on its surface. A section of such a growth (Fig. 315) shows it to be composed of tubes lined with columnar epithelium, bound together by a delicate connective tissue,