515 TREATMENT OF DISLOCATED ASTRAGALUS. L L 2 as well as forwards. In either case the displaced bone forms a, distinct tumour upon the instep, in the outline of which the form of the astragalus can be dis- tinctly made out. Over this, the skin is so tightly dra'nm as often to appear to be on the point of bursting. When the bone is thrown somewhat inwards, the foot is turned outwards, and the internal malleolus projects distinctly. When the astragalus is thrown outwards, displacement of the foot inwards, with great projection of the lower end of the fibula, takes place. In some cases, fracture of the neck of the astragalus is conjoined with these dislocations ; and not un- commonly the luxation is compoiuid from the very first, or speedily becomes so if left lumeduced, in conseqiiencc of the sloughing of the skin which covers the anterior surface of the bones, the exposed portion of which imdergoes necrosis, and perhaps eventual exfoliation. The dislocation hachivards, into the hollow under the tendo AcMUis, is rare, there being but seven recorded instances of this accident. In the majority of these there Avas displacement of the bone imvards, as well as backwards. In these cases the diagnosis is easy, as the bone forms a distinct prominence, Avhich can be felt imder the tendo Achillis, In many cases the dislocation of the astragalus is not altogether complete, a portion of the bone stiU intervening between the imder surface of the tibia and the upper surface of the os calcis. Treatment.—The reduction of the dislocation fonuards, Avhether attended by lateral displacement or not, varies greatly in facility ; in some instances being effected with the greatest possible ease, in others being attended by almost insurmoimtable difficulties. This difference depends, I think, on whether the dislocation is complete or not. When the astragalus is not completely thrown from under the arch formed by the bones of the leg, a portion of it being still entangled between their articular surfaces and that of the calcanemn, it may usually be readily reduced by relaxing the muscles of the calf, and pushing the bone back into its proper position. But when the astragalus is completely dislocated, the upper surface of the calcanemn is drawn up under the arch of the malleoh by aU the strength of the muscles that pass from the leg to be inserted into the foot. In these circumstances, in order that reduction take place, it is necessary first of all to separate the articular sm’faces to such an extent as to admit of the astragalus being pushed back into its socket : this is ahnost impossible, oiving to the great perpendicular thickness of this bone, to the extent to ivhich it is consequently necessary to draw doivn the foot, and to the httle purchase that can be obtained on it. In such cases, reduction has been greatly facilitated by the division of the tendo Achilhs, by Avhich simple operation the ivhole strain of the muscles of the calf is taken off. ^ It reduction be still impracticable, and the bone continue mueduced and irreducible on the dorsum of the foot, ivhat should be done ? Tivo com-ses present themselves to the Surgeon ; either at once to cut down upon the Mtragalus and to remoi'e it; or to adopt a palhative treatment—to put the im J at rest on a splint, to apply evaporating lotions, and to ivait the result ac mg according to circumstances as they develop themselves. In some rare cases, the displaced astragalus has given rise to comparatively little incon- the'ZrfJrf can ridom bo expected. If the dislocation have been in the direction forwards, the skm mil usually slough, and then a portion of the