249 BUiSECTWX- jro UXDS. applied to cvciy corner of it. If the wound liavc already cicatrised, the bitten 2>art should be excised at any time after the injury, provided the dog is known to have been mad, or to have become so afterwards ; for it is not improbable that, in the cases where the disease has occiuTed at a remote period, it has been dependent upon, or connected with, some peculiar action set up in the wound, which might possibly be averted by the removal of the cicatrix. I forbear to speak of any other means of constitutional preventive treatment, as I consider them utterly undesei”\dng of confidence. After the disease has once set in, nothing can be done but to spnptoms and to prolong life. Every possible remedy that the ingenuity of man coidd de'^ise, from Avarm water to Aiper- and ticuna-poison, has been tried, and been found utterly useless. The only plan of treatment that holds out a hope of eventual success, and AA^hich, AA”hether it succeed or not in curing the patient, at all eA'euts mitigates his sufferings, is that Avhich has been re- commended by Marshall Hall and Todd. It consists, in the first jplace, in remoA-ing all external in-itation, Avhether mental or bodily ; putting the patient in a darkened room, as much remoA'ed as possible from aU noise and the intrusive curiosity of strangers, and siuTounding his bed AAdth gauze cm’tains or screens, so as to jirevent the distimbing influence even of a draught of cold air. ]\[easures must then be adopted to lessen the excitabihty of the spinal cord : this may be done most efficiently, as Todd suggests, by the aj)phcation of ice in a piece of gut laid along the whole length of the S23ine, or by means of a sj)inal ice-bag. Lastly, the Sm-geon must bear in mind that he has to treat an ex- hausting disease, azid that he must consequently sujDjDort the jzatient by AAune, beef-tea, and such nourishment as can be taken. WOUNDS WITH INOCULATION OF DECOMPOSING ANIMAL MATTER.* The majority of Avoimds of this character are not dangerous. Every student of anatomy fr-equently punctures and cuts himself in dissecting, but Ave laiely see any ill effects from these injiuies. In some cases, however, the inost serious results, terminating in permanently imjzaired health, or even m death,^ ensue. The result depends quite as much on the state of health of the peisoii injined, as on the condition of the body from which the jAoison is received. If the health be broken by any cause, whether excess of study or dissipation, or over-fatigue in professional work, very serious effects may follow, Av 1C AAOuld not occur if the patient had the resisting power of a somid and strong constitution. Causes.—The deleterious influence exercised by the dead body, human or bnite may be attributed to three different causes : 1, the ordinary Irritation of c ^ Inoculation of Putrid Matter ; or, 3, Introduction of a Specific Septic Virus into the system. I think it probable that each of these causes may exercise a distinct influence, but that the worst effects of dissection- wounds are dependent on the inoculation of a peculiar and specific Aims. 1. lhat ill effects sometimes result from the simple Irritation of the ^‘^ct that mere scratches or punctiucs with feBlmters of wood, or other substances free fr-om an actual poison, gixe rise to » Sec also Cliaptfr XXXl-Sorticn'ii.ia.