biblocations of the femuf. 495 directions. A very com-enient mode of applying traction is by means of the toy called an “Indian pnzzle,” which gnasps the fingei tightly the more it is pulled upon. 1 he finger will continue to be stitf and comparatively useless lor some leno-th of time. The joint being swollen and tender the patient can generally bend it, but cannot extend it ful y or bear any traction upon it. This condition is especially apt to be troublesome and chronic if the patient be gouty, or if his general health be otherwise deranged, and requires rest and local countcr-imtation, with an antipodagTic treat- ment, for its remedy. In Compound Dislocatton of he phalanges, the bone should be replaced, the finger supported by a gutta-percha splint, and the wound dressed lig y. In some cases it is necessary to remove the projecting end of bone before this can conveniently be done : ankylosis then results, a sufficiently useful finger being left. Fii;. Hi-—Partial Dis- iocatioii ol' the Mid- dle Phalanx of the Middle Finger. DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. DiSLOCATio^rs OF THE Pelvis.—It often happens that, in consequence of severe blows upon or compression of the peMs, the Symphysis of the Pubic Bones, or more frequently the Sacro-iliac Articulation, is displaced. Here the natiu’e of the injury is indicated by the deformity that results ; and the same treatment is required as in fracture of the pelvis, with which these accidents are commonly associated. The Coccyx is sometimes violently bent, and almost dislocated/orzm/rfe by falls ; or it may be forcibly bent baclmards dmiing violent partm’ient efforts. These accidents may be remedied by manipulation thiough the lectiim ; but are apt to be Mowed by that painful nemialgic affection Coccydynia, described at p. 426. Dislocations of the Demur.—^Notwithstanding the great depth of the acetabulum, the complete manner in which the head of the thigh-bone is received into its cavity, the fiivaness of the capsular hgament, and the great strength of the capsular muscles that siuTound and support the joint, disloca- tions of the hip are more frequently met with than those of many other joints that appear less perfectly supported. This is doubtless in a great measure owing to the action, on the head of the femur, of the gveat length of leverage of the thigh-bone itself when external violence is apphed to the knee, and of the whole of the loiver extremity when the violence is applied to the foot. The different forms of dislocation of the femur were described with great clearness and precision liy Sir A. Cooper, who showed that its head is most commonly throAvn upwards and somewhat backwards, so as to lodge on the slightly concave surface between the acetabulum and the crista ilii, resting on the gluteus minimus, and having the trochanter turned forwards (Fig. 223); or the head may be throivii downwards into the foramen ovale, lying upon the obtm-ator externus muscle (Fig. 225) ; or forwards and upwards upon |i the horizontal branch of the pnbic bone under the psoas and iliacus muscles, to the outer side of the femoral A'essels (Fig. 226); the head of the bone may also be thrown backwards into the sacro-sciatic notch, resting upon the pyrifor-