^44 VENEREAL 1)1 EE A RES. of CcUicei, 01 the iioclulo ot caseous tubercle. However tnuch the course and pi ogress of these diseases may dift'er, the parts infected and the organs involved are generally the same, whether they he spematised ” by putrid or specific pus or by cancer-germs. Tlie early and more common conseipienccs of this affection have long been called and semiclary syphilis. These terms are ill suited to oin- pre- sent knowledge of syphilis, for it is now established that the induration at the point of contagion and the enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands are as much a part of the disease as are the eruptions of the skin and mueous membranes ; which, in the great majority of cases, shortly follow the appear- ance of the former. But, as they have the sanction of custom, they may bo employed to indicate the different phenomena of the disease. Thus, Primary Syphilis is used to denote the indin-ation and ulceration that take place at the point of contagion, and the indolent enlargement of the nearest group of the lymphatic gland. Secondary Syphilis denotes the various eruptions of the skin and mucous membranes, and the inflammation of the eye and the periosteum, which take place in the first two years after contagion, but may retm’n by relapses of the disease after much longer periods. Lastly, the term Tertiary Syphilis includes pecuhar effects of sy[3hilis that appear in a small proportion only of those infected, and which affect the body, especially the viscera, "with processes of a slow inflammatory character, and are seldom set in action until the ordinary course of the disease has temiinated. Syphihs may, then, be regarded as presenting two orders of symptoms, the local and the constitutional. The Local or Primary symptoms occur only on the part to which the virus is immediately applied, and are the consequences of the introduction of the poison at the point of inoculation. The Constitu- tional or Secondary symptoms are the results of the absorption of the poison into the economy, whereby most of the tissues and many of the organs of the body me affected ; they are capable of hereditary propag'ation, and, in certain cir- cumstances, of transmission through the secretions. It would be altogether foreign to the scope of this work were I to enter into the very curious and interesting question as to the oriyin oj syphihs, a subject that admits of much dispute, and which has been keenly argued. After an attentive examination of it, I think there can be little doubt that syphilis was either introduced into Europe, or originated there de novo, towards the end oi the fifteenth centiu’y. There is no mention made by the medical writers, historians, or poets of antiquity of any contagious disease arising from sexual intercourse affecting the genital organs, and followed by constitutional symp- toms. The disease, when it first attracted public attention at the close of the fifteenth century, Avas looked upon as a new and previously unknown affection. It was supposed to be infectious as well as contagious, and its treatment was not understood. This Avould scarcely have been the case had it been previousl}^ known by personal observation, or even by tradition, to those then hving. It it had previously existed in the old world in a mild or modified form, different from what we now observe, it is certain that about this time it suddenly assumed ga-eater intensity, all its symptoms being aggravated in a remaikable and fearful manner, presenting characters ivhich had not been previous y alluded to, but which have often been reproduced in modern times ; as, tor