DIVISION THIRD. SUKGICAL DISEASES. DISEASES AFFECTING THE TISSUES GENERALLY. CHAPTEK XXX. MOETIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. The death of a part of the body only is, in sui’gical language, termed IVEortification or Gangrene. When the morbid action is confined to the osseous structm-es or to the cartilages, it is termed Necrosis; when hmited to the soft tissues of a hmh. Sphacelation; and when accompanied by ulcera- tion, it is called Sloughing. Many other varieties of gangrene are recognised by Surgeons. Like aU other diseases, it may be Acute or Chronic in its duration ; as the parts affected are moist and swollen, or dry and shrivelled, it may be divided into the Moist and the Dry or Mummified gangrene ; so again, according to its cause, it is spoken of as Idiopathic or Traumatic; and very frequently, and most correctly perhaps, it is aivanged under the denominations of Constitutional and Local. Besides these, various Specific forms of the disease are met Avith, which Avill require special consideration. Local Signs.—^Whatever form the gangrene may assume, certain local phenomena are common to all varieties. The part becomes colder than natural; not only is it colder than the corresponding part on the opposite side of the body, but the temperatime may fall below that of the external air. The sensi- bihty of the part is lost. It may be touched, pricked, or cut without feeling. In some cases the sensibihty is greatly increased just before gangrene sets in, intense agonising pain of a burning or neuralgic character being experienced, Avhich soon gives way to complete insensibihty. All motion of the part itself ceases. It may be moved by muscles from a distance, as a mortified toe might be moved by the unaffected flexors or extensors, but it has no power of motion independently of that which is communicated fi'om a distance. The skin of the mortified part becomes discoloiued, usnally gi-cyish or greenish, the cuticle separates, and when pressed upon obliquely slides away imder the fiugei, leaving the moist and slippery cutis exposed. The colour gradually darkens to a dull purplish greenish black, mottled in patches with I’eddish-biown spots,