TUMOURS. 8iS adherent, an elliptical portion of them may be excised together Avith the tinnonr. In other instances, again, a semilunar flap of integument may Avith advantage he turned up from the tumour, the surface of Avdiich is then fairly exjAosed ; this, hoAvever, can only be done in some simple tumours, such as fatty gTOAvths. The flaps covering the groAvth should then be freely but cautiously dissected back, so as to expose its sides and base ; as these are approached, and the Surgeon reaches the neighbourhood of its more important and deeper connections, increased care AAdll be necessaiy, as it not unfrequently happens that the tumour is in more important relations Avith deep-seated blood-vessels and nerves of a large size than Avould at first appear. When practicable, the chej) dissection Avill best be commenced and cam'ed out from that part of the base of the tumour into Avhich the principal blood- vessels appear to enter ; they arc thus early cut, and being once ligatured give no ftu’ther trouble, Avhich they Avould do Avere they divided from the direction of their branches toAvards the trunk, Avhen at each successiA’e stroke of the knife a fresh portion of the vessel Avould be touched. In carrying on this deep dissection, the operator should proceed methodically from one side of the tumour to the other, the assistants holding aside the skin so as to give as much room as possible, AA^hilst the Surgeon himself, seizing the mass Aidth his left hand, or Avith a large double hook or vulsellum, and dragging it AA^ell forivards, uses the knife by successive strokes, but in a leisurely and careful mamier, avoiding all undue haste, until he completely detaches it from its connections. The safety of contiguous important structures Ai'ill be best secured by keeping the edge of the knife constantly directed toAvards the tumour, if this be non-malignant ; by attention to this rule, I hax'e seen Liston remove tumours Avith remarkable facility and ease from the neighboiu’hood of most important parts. If, hoAvever, the groAvth be malignant, the incisions must be made Avide of the disease into the healthy structures around ; unless this be done, portions of the tumour may be left from Avhich fresh groAvths Ainll rapidly sprout, or cancer-ceUs may impregnate the neighbom-ing tissues through Avhich they are scattered, and may eventually become so many fresh centres of malignant action. After the tumoiu has been removed, it must be carefully examined, Avith the AueAV of ascer- taining Avhether it be entire ; and, if any portions have been left, these must be properly dissected out. In some situations, as the axilla, the side of the neck, or the groin, Avhere the relations are of great importance, the less the edge of the knife is used the better, and the groAvth should be enucleated by the Surgeon’s fingers or by the handle of the scalpel. The Surgeon should rarely undertake the removal of tumoins that cannot bo Avholly and entirely extirpated, as the part left Avill alivays groAv Avith gx’eatly increased rapidity, often assuming a fungous character ; this is especially the case AA’ith malignant tumoins, the rapidity of increase of AALich is greatly aug- mented by partial ojierations. The exception to this rule consists in the case in Avhich a large ulcerating and necrosing mass may be removed AAuth the viOAv of giving the patient temporary ease, and saving him from the annoyance of the putrescence of a disintegrating tumour. Should, hoAVOver, the Surgeon have begun the oiieration Avith the inten- tion of removing the Aidiole, and have been deceiA’ed as to [the depth and connections of the mass, if, for instance, he find, after commencing his