15° SUPPURATION AND ARSOESS. lef^ions. Ihe cause of the abscess also influences the result; if it be a piece of dead bone that can be removed, the discharge will speedily cease if the frag- ment be taken away, but if it be so situated that it cannot be got rid of, it will, by acting as a continuous soincc of irritation, keep up a discharge that may e\entually prove fatal. The constitution of the patient influences our piognosis. Such an amount of discharge as w’^ould inevitably prove fatal in a cachectic system, may influence a sound one but very little; so also, the w’astiiig effect of an abscess is better borne about middle age than at either of the extreme periods of hfe. Treatment.—The treatment of suppiu-ation presents three points requiring attention. The first object should be to prevent the formation of matter ; tlic next to take steps for its evacuation when formed; and the last to endeavour to close the cavity that results. In order to prevent the formation of matter, it is necessary to get rid of any local irritant that may exist; thus dead bone should be removed, or extravasated lU’ine let out of the areolar tissue. After this has been done, the qifeventive treatment must consist in the active emifloyment of local antiphlogistic means, such as ice and cold evaporating lotions: any slight tendeniess that con- tinues after the inflammation has subsided must be removed ; and the swelling from exudation-matter, which is especially the preem’sor of chronic abscess, must be got rid of by the continuous appheation of some discutient lotion. One composed of iodide of potassimn 5i., spirits of wane 3i., water svij., is extremely usefrd ; in some cases absorption may advantageously be promoted by mercm’ial ointments or plasters. When once pus has formed, it is a question whether it can be absorbed again; in general, it certainly caimot, more especially if once a distinct cyst have formed aroinid it, but in some cases it may undergo absorption; thus, in hypopyon, w-e occasionally observe that the pus deposited in the anterior chamber of the eye is removed; and I think it probable that the same may happen when pus is inflltrated into the tissues of a part, without a very distinct wall siUTOunding it. The more fluid parts of chi-onic abscesses occasionally become absorbed, leaving a cheesy residue, which may degenerate into cretaceous matter. When, notwithstanding the employment of appropriate means, it is evident that pus is about to form, the treatment should be completely changed, and, by the aid of warmth and poultices, an endcavom’ should be made to hasten s>(2}- picration. When this is fully established, the abscess having become “ ripe,” steps must be taken for the evacuation of the matter. The treatment of acute and of chronic abscesses differs in some respects. In discussing the Treatment of Abscess, w^e shall consider, in the fii-st instance, its management by the methods ordinarily in use, and secondly, by the antiseptic plan. In the Acute Abscess, the matter should be let out as soon as it is fully formed, especially in those varieties of the disease connected with a morbid state of the system, as in the metastatic and pyemic forms. When this is done, the constitution at once experiences great rehef, the fever and general iiTitation subsiding materially ; the tree incision not only letting out the pus and lymph, but removing tension, and, by encoiu’aging local bleeding, lessening he inflammatory action. The rule of opening an acute abscess early is espe- cially imperative w-hen the pus is formed in the sheaths of the tendons and