748 TUMOURS. taken tlmt none oi the lobules frequently found in these tumours arc left behind, as they Ajmidd eertamly serve as starting points for new gTowths. The ui L. Biodie s high authority for the administration of the liquor potassm in some cases, under winch treatment this eminent Surgeon states that fatty tumours have occasionally disappeared. fo FiWua: Fibrous or Fibroid Tumours, Desmoid Tumours, areolar and Fibro-ceUular Tumours.—In the healthy body, fibrous tissue is found cither dense and firm as in tendons, or loose and filamentous as in areolar tissue, and between^ these tivo extremes every variety of density is observed. J n healthy areolar tissue two kinds of fibres are almost invariably present: the white fibrous and the yellow elastic tissue. In tumours composed of fibrous tissue, similar variations in density are found. Thus we have fibrous timioiirs as dense in structure as ligaments, and others as loose as areolar tissue, but in all it is extremely uncommon to find any yellow elastic fibres. Fibrous tissue enters very largely into the composition of many tumours besides the true fibro- mata. Thus the stroma of most cancers is composed of fibrous tissue, the intercellidar substance of a sarcoma may be abundantly fibrous, and in a h'poma the lobules of fat are bound together by areolar tissue. The term fibroma is, howci er, only applied to those tiimoius in which fibrous or areolar tissue forms by far the most abundant constituent, and in which the cells are not of an epithelial type and are not arranged in definite groups. As before stated, no sharp line can be di-awn between fibroma and sarcoma, and the term fibro- sarcoma is frequently applied to those tumours in the border-land between the two. Fibromata may be divided into two chief classes :—1. Soft fibromata, areolar tumours, and fibro-ceUular tumours; 2. Firm fibromata, desmoid tumours, and fibroid tumours. 1. Soft Fibromata.—These may be diffused or circumscribed and encap- suled. The diffused variety or areolar tumours are little more than a simple h}q>erplasia of the subcutaneous>or submucous areolar tissue. They are repre- sented by pendidous fleshy growths, forming large tumours, commonly called Wens, which may occur on any part of the surface. They are smooth, pedun- culated, firm, somewhat doughy, but non-elastic, pendidous, and movable, slowly increasing without pain often to a very great size. They are thinly covered with skin, bearing abmidant papiUre, and sometimes enlarged sweat- glands and hair-foUicles. Large vessels may ramify on the surface, and occa- sionally the skill is pigmented. They are sometimes congenital. In the disease known as molliiscmn fibrosiim these tumours form pedunculated masses or rolls, hauging from the skin of the buttocks, thighs, and other parts of the body, and may attain such a size as seriously to inconvenience the patient by their Aveight. These masses are composed merely of connectiA’e tissue, sometimes dry and tough, and sometimes oedematoiis. They contain large blood-vessels, fr’eqiiently of such size as to render removal of the groivtli a most hazardous operation. A somewhat similar condition is seen in the disease knoivn as Flephautiasis Arabum, in Avhich the skin and areolar tissue ot the affected part undergoes an enormous hypertrophy ; but the neiv groAvth in this case is not pedunculated, and is moreoi'er distinctly connected with repeated attacks of inflammation of the lymphatic vessels of the part. It is in warm climates and