OLD UNREDUCED DISLOGuiTION OF HUMERUS. 483 the advisability of attempting reduction always presents itself to the Surgeon. As a general ride this should always be attempted under chloroform, in accordance with the principles laid down at p. 4(J4, if only a few weeks have elapsed from the time of the accident, and then it ^vill usually be attended with success. Reduction has been eftccted in many cases at much later periods than this ; by Brodhurst, after twenty-five weeks had elapsed ; by Smitli (U.S.), after six, seven, eight, nine and ten months ; by Malgaigne, alter eight months; by Caron du Pillard, after six inonths ; and by SediUot, after a year. By the use of the subcutaneous division of muscles, &e., Diefifenbach is said to haA'c succeeded in reducing a dislocation of the shoulder after it had existed two years. In many cases, however, at a much earlier period than these, the Surgeon will fail, notwithstanding the most persevering attempts at reduction ; and in others again certain accidents have occurred, which evciy Surgeon should bear in mind, so as to render him cautious in his proceedings. The Accidents that have ocem-red in attempts at reducing old-standing dislo- cations of the head of the humerus are such as may arise either from the employment of an undue amount of force, fr’om the separation of the head of the humerus fr’om the adhesions that it has contracted in its new situation, or fr’om pathological changes in the limb itself. Among the first are laceration and bruising of the skin, subcutaneous areolar tissue, and muscles, with extra- vasation of blood : amongst the latter are fr’actiue of the humerus, laceration of the axOlary vessels and nerves, and avulsion of the hmb. Fracture of the humerus has occiured in the practice of many Sm’geons of eminence. It has happened to Petit, Pott, Larrey, Berard, DenonviUiers, and others. The siugical neck of the bone appears to have usually given way ; and the accident has not ocemued so much fr’om forcible extension, as in caiTying the ai-m across the chest so as to tilt the head of the bone into its place, when the shaft becomes exposed to fracture by pressure in a transverse direction. Such an accident necessarily prevents aU further attempt at r reduction. I Fracture of the ribs, by the pressiue exercised against the wad. of the chest, is supposed to have occuiTed in some cases. The extravasation of a large quantity of blood into the areolar tissue of the axilla has occasionally ocemued, without any evidence of the rupture of one of the main vessels. In these cases the swelling has gradually subsided under the employment of ordinary treatment, by rest and evaporating lotions. More serious by far than this is the rupture of one of the targe blood-vessels in the axilla. This may either happen from the pressure of the Surgeon’s heel, as in a case reported by Hamilton, in which an attempt was made to reduce a dislocation of old standing by this means ; the Surgeon unfortimately for- getting to remove his boot, and thus contusing and lacerating the artery. Or It may occur from the humerus having become adherent to the vessel, and lacerating this when tom away. Tlie instances on record of laceration of the ^illaiy artery, and the consequent formation of a diffuse traumatic aneurism m the axilla, in the reduction of old dislocations, are so numerous—there bein°- at least twelve cases in the records of smgery—as to act as a warning to the Surgeon not to employ too much force. I I 2