TUMOURS. 75° work of wliitc fibrous tissue, arrano-ed in undulating filaments and fibrous bands, in the midst of wliicli stellate, spindle-sliaped, oval or round cells are found. These cells are similar to those normally found in fully developed or growing fibrous tissue. They vaiy in abundance, but never e.xcced the fibrous tissue in amount. The cells are rendered more apparent by the addition of acetic acid.^ These timiours sometimes appear to grow rapidly, when, in reality, the increase in size is due to a rapid increase of the fluid, and not to a new deposit of a solid character in the tumour. As these tumours are per- fectly hinocent, no hesitation need be entertained about their remoi'al. “* ^ ribi. oiiia/tai ribroid. ov Desiuoid Tumours.—These tumours are met with in various situations, the most common of which are the bones and periosteum, the mamma, the subcutaneous connective tissue, and in connection with nerves. In the uterus “ fibroid ” tumoins are exceediugly common, but in this situation they contain not only fibrous tissue, but also a variable nmount of non-striated muscular fibre. Amongst the best known examples ■of firm fibromata may be enumerated, the simple or fibrous epulis, the fibrous tumoiu’S of the antrum or lower jaw, the fibrous polypus of the nose, the ordinary or false neuroma, and the painful subcutaneous tubercle. Fibrous tumom-s are also seen in the neck, especially in the parotid region. In shape these tumours are irregularly oval or rounded ; they are smooth, painless, •and except when growing from bone they are freely movable ; they grow slowly, but may attain an enormous size, equal to that of a cocoa-nut or water-melon. Liston removed one from the neck, which is at present in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, that weighed twelve pounds ; they have, however, been found weighing as much as seventy pounds. They are almost invariably single ; they are excessively firm and hard, but yield shghtly on pressure, in this differing from bony tumours. When cut into, they present Fi"s 27S ■’79 —Firm fibrmnata (ISS di.am.) Figure 279, from a small Fibroma of the forehead, shews Oie (dreidar ar’rangemciit of tlie libres. Figure to the left, from a naso-pharyiigeal rolypus, resemhles ordiuai-y iibrous tissue. a white glistening fibrous structure, often showing, to the naked eye, bundles of interlacing fibres. Sometimes the fibres show a concentric arrange- ment (Fig. 279) ; an aj^pearance which, according to Bilhoth, is due to the fibrous formation taking i^lace around nerves and vessels. On microscopic