DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 595 too late, that he is too tall to clear tlio archway; he bends forwards, but, miscal- culating the distance, his head is pressed ■\dolently forwards ; the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments are torn, and perhaps the intervertebral fibro-car- t age is ruptured, or torn oft’ ft’om the subjacent bone, and detaches with it a lamina of that bone. 2. A person takes a header into shallow water ; his head comes against the bottom, he rolls over, and his spine is broken or dis- located. Such accidents are not very unfi’equent. I have seen several cases of paralysis, but not of death, resulting from this kind of accident. Sometimes a child is held up by the chin and the back of the head ; the child struggles and the odontoid process gives way, and dislocation occurs between the first two vertebrffi. These accidents most commonly happen fr’om forcible flexion of the neck forwai’ds, though traction and rotation conjoined have occasioned them. In a case of luxation of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, recorded by J. Eoux, the accident happened to a sailor plunging into the sea for the purpose of bathing, and coming head foremost against a sail which had been spread out to prevent the attack of sharks ; he died on the fourth day. In a patient of mine, who feU out of a window in such a way that the head was doubled for- wards upon the chest, and who was brought to the Hospital with supposed fr'actiu’e of the spine, we found after death, which occurred on the fifth day, that the seventh cervical vertebra, carrying with it the upper portion of the spine and the head, had been dislocated forwards from the first dorsal, there being a wide gap posteriorly between the laminse of these bones, with hori- zontal sphtting of the intervertebral substance, detaching with it an extremely thin and small layer of bone from the body of the seventh vertebra. There was no fr’acture about the articular processes, which were completely separated fr’om one another. In the instance already referred to, in which a man feU on his head from a van, and death resulted in 24 hoiu’s, a similar displacement was found of the fifth fr’om the sixth cervical vertebra, with compression of and hasmorrhage into the substance of the meduUa, and disorganisation of it to the extent of nearly an inch opposite the seat of dislocation, where it had been injined by the forward pressure of the dislocated vertebra. The Sumptoms of these accidents are necessarily excessively obscure, beino- very liable to be confounded with those of fracture. _ Redmtimi has been^ effected in a sufficient number of cases of this kind to justify the attempt being made when danger is imminent. Dislocation of the Transverse Process of the Cervical Vertebra occasionally occurs. The patient, after a sudden movement, or a fall on the head feels much pain and stiffness in the neck, the head being fixed immovably and turned to the opposite side to that on which the displacement has occurred in these cases I have known Reduction effected by the Singeon placino- his _ noes against the patient’s shoulders, drawing on the head, and then tiirnino- it into position, the return being effected with a distinct snap. In the Dorsal Region, dislocation of the spine, though excessivelv rare may occur ; seldom, however, without being accompanied by fr-acture ^ The umbar ,r*'”“ “““ found WocaJd ft-om Ihe intervertebral flbro-cartilage. In Le eaTef r, there has usually been found fracture of the transverse processes of Q Q 2