COKGUSSIOJS^ OF THE EYE, 6oi lens, or between these parts and the posterior surface of the cornea; or inflam- mation may take place in all the structures of the ball, giving rise to rapid and deep disorganisation. The Treatment of penetrating wounds is strictly antiphlogistic. Bleeding in the ann, cujiping on the temples, low diet, a darkened room, and the admi- nistration of calomel and opium, are the principal points to be attended to. If the iris have pi’etruded through a wound in the cornea, it should bo carefully pushed back, and a drop or two of the solution of atropine put upon the eye. If it cannot be returned, it may be removed with a pair of fine curved scissors; and, at a later period, any staphylomatous tumour that may form should be touched repeatedly with a pointed piece of nitrate of silver. If there be a tendency to the fonnation of adhesions, or to the deposit of lymph Avithin the impil or the anterior chamber, our principal reliance should be upon small doses of calomel, in conjunction vith opium. If the lens or its capside have become opaque, traumatic cataract thus forming, extraction may be required at a later period of the case. If the eye be so extensh'ely opened or deeply injimed that vision is irre- parably lost, and extensive suppurative inflammation in it and in the structm'es. of the orbit is threatened, the sooner the globe is extirpated the better ; the patient being thus saved much local and constitutional disturbance, and the danger of sympathetie affection of the other eye being diminished. Indirect Injury of the Eye often follows injmies of the nervous system. Thus impaiiment of vision may be produced by concussion of the eye-ball through blows on the head ; by injuries of the face implicating the fifth pair of nerves ; by injury of the spine ; or by injury of the sympathetic. Concussion of the Eye may be produced by a direct blow on the organ ; or it may be the result of a blow on some other part of the head or face. In the latter case, the injury is dependent on the transmission of the force through the bones of the head or face to the structures mthin the orbit. The resulting impaiiment of A'ision is at its Avorst at the moment of the injmy, and either sloAvly disappears, or becomes permanent in consequence of the development of stnictural changes in the eye. That indirect A'iolence may produce serious lesion of the eye, is evident from the fact that the lens has been in this way dislocated AAdthout any direct injmy having been inflicted on the eye itself. Deyber relates a case in which cataract Avas induced by a Avound of the eyebrow from a stone, the eye itself being^ otherAvise uninjured : and I have seen cataract occur in an othei’Avlse healthy woman aged 40, three or four months after the receipt of a blow on the malar bone in a raihvay collision. It also often happens that, in cases of a general shock to the system, obscuration and impairment of vision gradually manifest themselves. (See p. 57G et seq). When impairment of vision remains permanent, or is gradually developed, after concussion, it is due to interference Avith the nutrition of the structures- of the eye. In such cases, atrophy of the optic disc may often be discovered, by ophthalmoscopic examination. The development of cataract after bloAA^s on the cyebroAV or check is to be accounted for by the frontal or infraorbital nanches of the fifth neiwc being implicated and irritated, so as to impair the nutntioii of the globe.