6g6 ERY8IPELAB. wound of the finger, the diffi;se inflaniination may principally take place in the extended planes of areolar tissue about the axilla and sides of the chest. It is important to bear in mind that this form of erysipelas sometimes affects the internal planes of areolar tissue. Tins may happen, for iiistance, in the fasciae of the pelvis after lithotomy, or in the anterior mediastinum after opera- tions at the root of the neck. The sloughing often occurs with remarkable rapidity in the course of thii’ty-six or forty-eight hours, the areolar membrane being broken down into ill-conditioned pus and shreddy sloughs, more especially Avhen the disease has resulted from the inoculation of an animal poison. Death, may in such cases occiu’ in two or three days ; in other instances, several weeks may elapse before a fatal result declares itself. The Constitutional Sijmptoms are those of asthenic fever in the most marked degree ; a quick and feeble pulse, brown tongue, and muttering delirium, being early concomitants of this affection. Post Mortem Ajpoearances.—After death fr’om erysipelas, the internal organs present nothing that is characteristic. As in all diseases accompanied by high fever and general blood-poisoning, the epithelium of the kidneys and liver is found in a state of cloudy sweUing, and the spleen is in some cases enlarged. The lungs are usually congested. Sometimes marked post mortem staining of the blood-vessels and organs is foimd very soon after death, and occasionally small petecllim are scattered beneath the serous membranes. It has been lately stated by Lukowsky, that, at the advancing line of the rash in cutaneous erysipelas, the lymphatic vessels and spaces of the skm are found to be packed with minute organisms (micrococci), which are not present when the eruption is receding, or in the parts over which it has j»assed; but this assertion requires confirmation. DiAGiSrosiS.—The diagnosis of the various forms of erysipelas is generally easily made. From the exanthemata, it is distinguished by the character of the eruption, its limited extent, and usual complication with injury. From inflam- mation of the veins or of the ahsorhents, the diagnosis is not always easy, more especially as the two conditions frequently co-exist. If it be a vein that is inflamed, the general absence of cutaneous redness, the existence of a hard round cord, and the tenderness along the coiu’se of the vessel, are sufficient to establish the diagnosis. In inflammation of the absorbents, the redness is not uniform, but consists of a niunber of small and separate red streaks, running in the direction of the lymphatics, and affecting the glands towards which they coinse. These two affections, however—erysipelas of the skin and inflammation of the absorbents—are almost invariably conjoined ; hence a definite diagnosis is not of much importance. PnoaNOSis.—The prognosis in erysipelas is always grave. It may bo dan- gerous to the part affected, or to the life. The ceUulo-cutaneous variety is very dangerous to both ; more .especially if it be traumatic ; if it affect the head oi parts in which the areolar tissue is abundant and lax, as the scrotum and orbit. There may be special danger even in the slighter forms of erysipe from the seat of the affection, or of asphyxia when attacking the fiuices. Uj groat cause of danger in erysipelas, and that renders it so epiessiUj, ^ , strength and so fatal a disease, is its constantly progressive tendency, so tuat whilst fading on one side it continues to extend on the otici. o in el^^