5° AMPUTATIONS, <jxhaustion and the other minor and more A'ariod causes that I have mentioned. Pyremia is the most frequent cause of death after amputations, nearly one half of the patients that die perishing from this disease. Bryant has shown that, at Guy s Hospital, it is fetal in ten per cent, of all amputations, and in forty-two per cent, of fatal cases, and that it is most frequent after am- putations through limbs, the tissues of Avhich are in a nonnal condition, and where a large sm-fece of healthy hone is exposed, as in amputations for injury, and in the remoA'al of limbs for tumours, talipes, ankylosis, &c. It is not so common after amputations performed for chronic joint-disease. Shock is a frequent cause of death after primary amputations of the larger limbs. The circumstances AA’hich more specially influence the general result of amputa- tions, as weU as the particular cause of death after the operation, maybe divided into two classes ;—a. Those that have reference to the general constitutional condition of the patient. (3. Those that are connected with the operation itself. a. To the fii'st class may be referred 1, Acje2, General Health ; and 3, Ilijfjimik Conditions. 1. Age exercises a material influence on the result of amputations. As a general rule it may be stated that, the younger the patient, the greater the likelihood of a successful result. At early periods of life, also, there is a great exemption from low secondary diseases of the septic type ; and if death occur, it is usually from exhaustion or intercuri'ent Aisceral mischief. At advanced periods of life, amputations, whether for accident or disease, are amongst the most fatal operations in Surgery, more especially Avhen the loAver extremity is> the seat of operation. Then, indeed, recovery can scarcely be looked for. 2. The General Health of the patient preA'ious to the operation exercises necessarily a most poAverful influence on the chances of recoA'ery. The state of the kidneys, more especially, is of gi’eat importance in this respect; for no con- dition tends more certainly to a fatal tennination, than a chronically diseased state of those organs. The results of amputation are also necessarily Awdely different, according as the operation is practised on the healthy inhabitant of a country district, or on the cachectic and debilitated denizen of a large toum. The causes of death also differ in these cases. In the coimtry, haemoiThage or acute inflammation ; in towns, exhaustion and septic diseases, commonly lead to the fatal result. And imdoubtedly shock and septic diseases are the tAA’o- principal causes that determine death after amputation. The influence of Slioch and of Se^tk Disease is very differently felt in different amputations. The greater the portion of body that is removed the more severely is shock felt. In these cases, also, the influence of septic agencies becomes more marked. This is om’ug to two causes : 1. The depression of the nervous system consequent on the shock, and on the loss of blood that is the frequent accomiDaniment of a gueat operation, tending to loAver the resist- ing poAver of the system to all noxious influences, and thus predisposing to septic absoiqAtion, constitutional or local; and, 2. The large siufacc of Avound exposed, rendering local contamination more likely to occur. The influence of shock and septic disease in amputations is Avell marked. Out of 80 consecutive cases occiuTing at UniA'ersity College Hospital, Avhich form the basis of these obsen'ations, there Avere 3 deaths fr’om shock (all primary), and 10 from pytemia and erysipelas ; leaving only 8 deaths to be accounted lor by