ADDENDA TO VOLUME I. 955 lluis it would appear tliat in tlic first case Mey mwf;d across tlio metatarsal bones after ha\ing made the flap. In the second case, he disseclccl out all the metatarsal bones, and then made a flap from the sole. In the third case, he first made the sole-flap, and then, having ilissecleit out the four smaller metatarsal bones, scuoed across the internal cuneiform; thus comlrining the two methods of cutting and sawing. Page HU). 7.—ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT. That the “Antiseptic Treatment” has been of much service in the pre- '\-ention of the infection of wounds, more especially in old, crowded, and pestilential hospitals, there can be little doubt. lYe have, however, un- fortunately as yet no definite data by which to judge of the comparative merits of this and other modern methods of treating wounds. The general recognition by Surgeons of the necessity of the free drainage of woimds, with or without the employment of antiseptics, has undoubtedly tended, more than any one single improvement in practice, to lessen those evils which necessarily result from the decomposition of pent-up fluids in contact with raw surfaces. So also the general employment of disinfectants of aU kinds, and the great attention that is now bestowed on hospital hygiene in the recognition of the importance of abundant air-supply and free ventilation, of the evils of over- crowding, of the necessity of care in the distribution of patients, and in the avoidance of aU carriers of infection, such as sponges, instruments, clothes, &c., have greatly tended to improve the sanitary condition of most hospitals—and to lessen the liability to the generation and diflusion of septic disease. The introduction of the “ antiseptic treatment ” being cotemporaneous, with the general adoption of improved hospital hygiene, the patients subjected to this method necessarily participate in the advantages that flow from exposme to sanitary conditions that have been so much altered for the better. Hence it is not reasonable or just to ascribe a diminution of the amoimt of septic disease in a hospital in which the “Antiseptic Method” is employed, to that alone, and to the exclusion of all other causes. Either hygiene is of no value in surgical cases, or some and probably no inconsiderable share in the improved results must in justice be assigned to the generally ameliorated sanitary con- ditions. The oMy comparison that can justly or scientifically be instituted, is between one set of patients treated antiseptically with another of a similar kind subjected cotemporaneously to other methods of treatment. And for this comparison to have any practical value, it must be continued for a sufficiently lengthened period to eliminate all sources of error from accidental causes. It is manifestly unscientific to compare the results of modern with those of older methods of surgical practice, even in the same institutions, where the attendant conditions, independent of mere treatment, are dissimilar; and it is equally incorrect and unjust to refer all improvements in results to one onl} of the many improved conditions to which the patient is now subjected.