884 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. face, I believe, however, that of these forms of disease, that which is limited to the nose, and that which extends widely over and through the face, essen- tially differ from one another. The first is generally of a Scrofulous character, in fact consisting of strumous ulceration in one of the extreme parts of the body, the vitality of which is below its normal standard, and usually occur- ring in young persons, especially in women from eighteen to twenty-five years of age, A second variety is of SyjphUitic origin, being one of the most serious forms of remote tertiary syphilis ; and the third is the true Lupoid or rodent ulcer. The strumous form of lupus exedens, that which destroys merely the- extremity of the nose, is commonly rapid in its progress, the part appearing to melt dovm under the disease, so that in the course of a few weeks the whole of the organ is destroyed. In other cases it is very slow, occupying perhaps many years, and partaking somewhat of the red and branny form of lupus non- exedens. Occasionally it is evidently associated with and dependent upon the- syphilitic taint, and ought then to be considered rather as a variety of local syphilis in a strumous constitution than as a distinct affection. Microscopic Structure.—It is not often that we have an opportunity of examining niicroscopically the structure of the less active forms of lupus. Some time ago, however, I removed by excision a patch of lupus non-exe- dens, which had existed for four- teen years under the chin of a woman aged thu’ty, who was otherwise in good health. On examination, it was found to be composed of large cells many times larger than blood-discs, ha'S’ing clear and very distinct cell-walls, and weU-marked re- fracting nuclei. There were some- cells clear and globular, without nuclei; others Avere fusiform and elongated, with nuclei, evidently undergoing fibro-plastic transfor- mation (Fig. 324). Molecular movement was very distinct in one of these globular cells. The mass of skin appeared to be converted into granular matter, intermixed with these “The Biagnoeis of scrofulous lupus is not always easy, the aisease beiug SBedolly apt to be confounded wdth some forms of impetigo, wi A syphilitic ESs and sores, and ivith cancer. From it may be distmi^ished hi the abJence of pustules, and of the thick gummy crusts obaiim eristic of this affietioii, as well as by the less 'Si“ X aSL iba^^osis is not always practicable, ir"ti rLmrS OCCIU’ as the result of constitutional syphilis, u o ’ j secondary affection, the limitation of the disease, and the absence of mteuenin, secoudaiy Fiir 324.—Cells from Lupus non-uxedens of tlio Neck.