VESSELS OF FORE-ARM AND HAND. 327 a case in which the brachial artery was tied above the tumour, which was large, with a thin sac, the pulsations returning in a few days, and the tumoui’ con- tinuing to enlarge. _ Varicose Aneurism, at the bend of the arm, presents the ordinary cha- racter of the disease. Occasionally, though i-arely, it would appear- that the aperture of communication between the anem-ismal sac and the vein becomes closed, and thus the vai-icose is converted into the ordinary circumscribed traumatic aneurism. The Treatment of this affection must be conducted on different principles from that of the ordinary circumscribed variety ; for whatever be the density of the sac, it is never, as has already been explained (p. 319), a perfect one, having always an opening into the vein which would prevent its proper- closure by the deposit of laminated fibrine. In foru" cases related by Sabatier, which were treated by Aiiel’s operation, amputation became necessary in two ; and, in the other cases, the operation by incision of the sac was required before a cure could be effected. The sac must therefore be laid open, and the vessel tied on each side of it in the way that has been recommended hr the treat- ment of varicose aneurism, and with the caution there laid down. If the varicose anernism be converted, after a few days, into the circumscribed form, the apertm-e into the vein becoming occluded, ligature of the arter-y above the sac may be successfully employed, or compression may succeed in curing the disease. In Aneurismal Varix of the ar-m, a roller and compress are aU that can be required. Vessels of the Foee-aem ahd Palm.—The arteries of the fore-ar-m are very commonly woimded by pieces of glass or earthenware, or by knives. In every case the bleeding point must be cut down upon, and both ends of the vessel tied. This rule is peculiarly imperative in this situation, on account of the freedom of the anastomosis through the palmar arches. In many of these cases the bleeding is at first very free, but, being arrested by pressme, does not break out again until eight or ten days have elapsed ; when, the arm being much infiltrated with blood, inflamed, and swollen, double ligatm-e of the vessel at the seat of injury has to be practised under somewhat difficult and unfavourable circumstances. Traumatic Aneurism of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries usually assumes the circumscribed form, owing to the pressure employed at the time of injiuy confining the extravasation. If it be small and recent, and situated superficially at the lower part of the fore-arm, or if it be in any way diffused, the better plan is to cut down upon and through the tumour at once, ligaturing the vessel on each side. If, however, the aneurism be deeply seated amongst the mass of muscles at the upper part of the fore-arm, near the elbow-joint, the wound having healed, and the soft parts covering it being healthy and firm, the advice given by Liston appears to be most judicious :—rather than cutting through the muscles and detaching their connections, he recommends that the aneurism should be left to attain some consistence, and then that the brachial artei-y be seemed in the mid-ai-m. In such cases as these, also, compression of the brachial, with moderate pressme on the tumour itself, has c fleeted a cmo.