MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 73^ usnally innocent may, under certain conditions at present unknown, take on a truly malignant action : this has led to the establishment of an intermediate group that may be termed the Semi-Malignant. The Non-Malignant, Innocent, or Benign Tumours are strictly local in their development, and are rarely connected with any constitutional or hereditary peculiarity. They resemble more or less comj)letely the normal textures of the part ill which they grow, and hence are very commonly, though not perhaps with strict propriety, termed homomoiyhous. They usually, though not invarialily, grow slowly, are more or less distinctly circumscribed, being often enclosed in a cyst or loose capsule of connective tissue, and have no tendency to invoh’e neigh- bouring structures in their own growth ; any change that they induce in con- tiguous parts not consisting in the degeneration or conversion of these into their o\ni structm’es, but simply in displacement or atrophy by their size and pressure. They ai’e usually single, but not unfrequently multiple, developing either simultaneously or successively ; but if in the latter mode, udthout any connection with preceding growths. If removed by operation, they do not return ; but if left to the ordinary processes of natime, they slowly attain a great size, remain stationary, and, at last, atrophy, decay, or necrose. The essentially Malignant Tumours differ widely from those just described. They cannot be considered as strictly local diseases, as in many cases they result primai’ily from a constitutional or hereditary vice, or, if local in the first instance, have a tendency rapidly to affect the constitution, and to reproduce themselves in distant j)arts of the body. They are usually characterised by extreme vegetative luxuriance, but by a somewhat low vitahty, being prone to early decay ; the peripheral parts being usually in a state of active growth, while the central are undergoing fatty degeneration, ulceration, or gangrene. They represent an extreme departui’e from the ordi- naiy nutrition of the pai’t ; and, when once fomid in an organ or tissue, they dos elope by an inherent force of their ovm, irrespectively of neighbouring parts, producing masses which differ entirely in structure and appearance fr’om anything observed in the normal condition of the body, and hence are not un- ffequently called liaten'ornoiylious. This term, however, cannot be considered stiictly accurate ; inasmuch as the microscopic elements of which the masses- are composed ha’^'e their several analogues in the normal structmes of the body. But though the individual constituents of the tiunoiu’ may ]je normal^ theii aggregation and mode of arrangement are totally abnormal, and differ from everything met with in a healthy state of the tissues. The mass, w ich may either be infiltrated in the tissues, or localised, increases quickly m size ; not imcommonly, indeed, the rapidity of the growth may be taken as a measure of the malignancy of the tumour. As it increases in size, it wids to implicate the neighbouring structures in its ovm groAvth, and to affect distant organs through the medium of the lymphatics or the blood • ] lemoved by operation it has a great tendency, under certain conditions' ocal and constitutional, to return in its original site or elsewhere, though does not necessarily do so. If left to its own development, a malionant tumour wiU inevitably soften, necrose, and ulcerate, often with much min Lhe^y f ® eduction of a peculiar state of constitutional y, which speedily and necessarily terminates in death.