FllAOTURES. 362 and by corresponding febrile reaction. In the one case, there is no exciting cause for the development of secondary diseases ; in the other, the local mischief is extremely apt to generate these in their worst forms, as eiysipelas, inflammation of the absorbents or veins, and pyaemia. In comjeoimd fractures, union takes place by the ends of the bone, which lie bathed in the pus of the Avound, granulatmg and tin-owing out plastic matter, Avhich becomes directly couAnrted into bone. There is in many cases bnt little provisional callus ; but in most instances a large quantity of accessory osseous deposit takes place, more particularly if the displacement be great. The union of these fractures precisely resembles that of a Avouud in the soft structures—^Ijy gTanulation, or “ the second intention ; ” the only difference being that the granulations which •are thrown out by the bone and periosteum develop into new osseous tissue either directly, or through the medium of an antecedent fibroid transformation. This process necessarily occupies a much longer time than that which is required for the union of a simple fracture, consohdation not being effected fox- three or four months, and often being very considerably retarded beyond this by the separation of necrosed bone, the formation of abscesses, &c. Eokitansky and some other pathologists are of opinion that superficial exfoliation of that layer of bone xvhich is bathed by the pus takes place, and that it is after this is separated that the granulations spring up, in which the nexv bone is deposited ; but I think that it admits of very considerable doubt whether this process of necrosis goes on in all cases of compound fractiu-e. Union of fi-actiu’es, like all other vital actions, takes place moi’e i-eadily and much more quickly in the early periods of life than at a more adA-anced age, and is abvays more speedily accomphshed in the upper than in the lower extremities. TBEATMENT OF PBACTURE. Constitutional Treatment in simple fractures requires but a very few Avords of explanation. As a rule, the general habits of life should be interfered Avith as bttle as possible. In uncompheated fr-actm-es of the upper extremities, more especially in the yoimg, rest for a few days in bed is aU that is needed. The patient may then be allowed to move about moderately with the liinb supported on proper apparatus. In the fr-actm-es of the lower extremities more lengthened rest is needed. In these cases the diet may be some- what reduced, and aperients given Avith advantage for the fii-st week 01- ten days. After this the usual habits of life in these respects should be resumed. In old pei-sons the enforced confinement to bed and the sudden inteiTuption of the ordinary habits of bfe, as well as the shock to the system, are apt to exercise an injurious and sometimes a fatal effect. In these cases there arc two dangers to apprehend, viz,, sloughing of the back and hypostatic congestion of the lungs. Both are avoided by propping the patient np in bed, the use of water or air cushions, and change of postme as far as piactica e. is necessary to see that the bed is very smooth and fu-m ^AAdthout creases a all crumbs be swept aAvay daily; and that scrupulous attention c paic to cleanliness after the use of the bed-pan. Good diet and a fail a OAAance o^ stimulants arc needed in these cases. The early use of the staichec 01 p as ei