214 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. G. In those cases in which a large artery, as the femoral, is lacerated at the same time that the soft parts arc extensively injured, and the bone fractured, amputation is required in oi’dcr to prevent the occuiTcnce of gangrene. In the moi'e local form of traumatic gangrene, in which the disease is confined to the part directly crushed and injured, no good can come of delay, and amputation should be performed as soon as mortification has declared itself ; and the limb must be removed at a sufficient distance from the seat of mischief. Thus, if gangi'eiie of the foot or ankle come on in consequence of a smash of these parts, the upper part of the leg or the thigh in its lower part should be amputated. T\Tien the mortification results indirectly from injmy of the vessels, the limb should also be immediately removed in a line with the wound, unless this be too high up ; then the most favoimable point must be seized, as will hereafter be explained. Amputation in these circumstances is by no means a very nnfavoiu’able operation (and it is one that I have several times successfully performed), provided it be done sufficiently early, before the constitution becomes poisoned by the absorption of morbid matters fr’om the gangrenous limb. It is scarcely necessary to warn the Siu-geon to be certain of the existence of gangrene before he operates ; and also that it be not a mere limited slough, but sufficiently extensive to jeopardise the patient’s life. 7. In those cases hi which the tme traumatic or rapidly spreading variety of gangi’ene is wholly or in part due to strangulation of the tissues by serous extravasation into the areolar iilanes, much benefit may be anticipated, and the further progress of the malady stayed, by early and free incisions carried through the engorged structures {debridement) ; an outlet is thus afforded to the effused fluids and to those portions of areolar tissue aheadyin a state of slough. But in aU others, and these unfortunately are by far the most numerous, in which the true traumatic or inqndly spreading gangrene has set in, the Siugeon will be placed in a great difficidty, whichever way he act. If he trust to con- stitutional treatment, in the hope of a line of demarcation forming, he will almost certainly be disappointed, the gangrene rapidly spreading up to the trunk ; and if he amputate, he may probably lose his patient by the stranp becoming affected. Yet amputation should, in my opinion, be performed at once. For, although this operation is necessarily very mifavoiuable when practised in these cases, in consequence of the gangrene not being a local affection, but dependent on constitutional causes, yet it must be remembered that, if the Surgeon Avait for the line of demarcation or trust to other means, such as incisions or general treatment, the patient will almost to a certainty die The patient’s safety m these cases, then, lies in amputating early, and removing the limb high above the part affected ; thus, in spreading gangr-ene of the aim, at the shoulder-joint; and of the leg, in the upper part of the thigh. The necessity for high amputation in these cases is owing to the gangTeue spreading more extensively in the areolar tissue than it does in the skin ; and hence in reality invading the limb to a higher point than it appears externally to do. In most cases it ivill be found that the infiltration precursory to the gangi-enous mischief rims up one side of the limb-the inner or posterior-to a much gi-cater extent than the other. In amputating under such circimstanccs, the Surgeon may often very advantageously so fashion his flaps as to exclude as much as possible of the affected part or side of the hmb, forming them chief!)