897 TRAUMATIC NEURALGIA. In one case of his which I ha^-e seen, a complete cure was effected, the patient, a liealthy man, being entirely free ft'om the neuralgia one year and a-half after the operation. racial Neuralgia more frequently takes its origin in the irritation of a dental nerve than in any other branches of the fifth. This necessarily arises fi-om the frequency Mdth which the terminal branches of those nerves become iiTitated in consequence of the presence of carious, broken, inflamed, or over- crowded teeth; and on the removal of these local and eccentric causes of irritation the pain usually ceases. There is, however, one form of neiu-algia of the dental nerve that is so severe and so persistent in its general duration, and so paroxysmal in its attacks, that it constitutes a true Tic. This neuralgia may affect either jaw. I have most frequently met with it in the lower, and more commonly in women than in men. It occurs in jDeople who have lost teeth ; and the pain, which is excessively acute and paroxysmal, commences in and darts from the contracted alveoli and the condensed and indurated ffum o covering them. It appears to be owing to the compression of the terminal branches of the dental nerves by the contraction upon them of the empty alveoli. Taking this view of the pathology of this form of nem'algia, I have treated it by the removal of a portion of the indurated alveolar border and gum. Some years ago I did this in a patient of Dunn’s, removing a V-shaped piece of the bone by means of a Key’s saw ; and more recently, I have in addition clipped away the bone by means of cutting pliers. Gross, who has directed attention to this form of uemalgia, uses the pliers only for the removal of the affected bone. In any case it is necessary to cut into, but not through, the body of the bone. By this incision, the dental canal may be opened in the body of the bone, and the nerve destroyed by means of the galvanic cauteiy. The inferior dental nerve has in some cases of intense and persistent neuralgia been divided by a very ingenious operation. This consists in dis- secting up a flap over the ramus of the lower jaw, applying a trephine to the bone so exposed, and cutting out a portion of it over that part where the nerve enters the dental canal, which is thus laid bare ; when a portion of the nerA e may be excised, by being raised on a director, and snipped away with scissors.* Traumatic Neuralgia is commonly the result of gun-shot injury, of the implication of nerves in cicatrices, or of their compression by callus. The neuralgia in these cases is usually of the most intense character, often attended by spasm of the muscles, and sometimes by anmsthesia of parts of the limb affected. It is due to the extension of inflammation of and chronic thickening of the membrane, and the interfascicular areolar tissue, which becomes immensely hypertrophied, thus compressing the nerve fibres. The accompary- mg drawing (Fig. 329), from a case in which Drs. Sands and Seguin, of New York, excised the cords which go to form the brachial plexus, close to the inteiwertebral foramma, illustrates well this compression of the nervous struc- ture by dense masses of interfascicular areolar tissue gi’eatly hynertronhied and permeated by dilated blood-vessels. * Trcaimmt.—ToQ smaller nerves of the limbs have repeatedly been divided See Dr. Weir Jlitcheirs admirable monograph on “ Injuries of Nerves and thoir Consequonees.”