INFLUENCE OF EE AT OF OPERATION. 53 “exhaustion ” or “collapse ” is, in feet, an indication that the impression pro- duced by the operation on the nervous system has been gi-eater than the already enfeebled powers of the patient were able to endui-e ; and the frequent occniTence of these terms, as indicating the cause of death in any table of amputation statistics, may be taken as evidence of the operation having been practised too often, when the patient was already so enfeebled by long-con- tiiined disease, or so exhausted by discharges and suffering, as to be unable to support the additional depressing influence of a serious sni’gical operation. In the retiu-ns of Dr. Chadwick of the results of amputations in the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, “exhaustion is stated to be by fai the most frequent cause of death. Out of the 180 fatal cases, it is retui-ned as the cause of death in 98, or ol'-l per cent.; whilst “ collapse ” is stated to have been fatal in 21, or 11’8 per cent., and “shock” in only 2 cases. I cannot but think that these terms are here used in a somewhat different sense from that in which we cmjiloy them, and that they rather represent what we should call “ shock.” However this may be, the fact is certain that in these Boston cases no fewer than 122 deaths out of 180, or 67 per cent., ocem-red from causes that were altogether independent of any septic hospital influence, a state of things that speaks highly for the sanitaiy condition of the hospital. The next and by far the most important of aU the causes of death after operations in hospitals, is undoubtedly the development of se]3tic disease. The importance of this is obvious, from a consideration of the following statistics. Out of the 21 deaths that occimred in the 80 University College amputations, no fewer than 10, or nearly one-half, arose from this cause ; and, out of a grand total of 239 deaths ocemTing in foim metropolitan hospitals, 86 died from pymmia alone, without including other septic diseases and secondary septic visceral inflammations ; there being nearly four times as many deaths from pyaemia as from shock. Dr. Chadwick, in the report of the Massachusetts General Hospital, retiuns 42 deaths fr’om pyremia out of the 180 fetal cases that occurred in 692 ampu- tations of all kinds, being in the proportion of 23'3 per cent, on the deaths, and only of o'7 per cent, on the whole number of amputations—a most remarkably low percentage of septic mortality, of which it may be taken as the whole and sole representative, there being no deaths returned from erysipelas or any other hospital disease. The circumstances coimected with the operation itself that influence materially its residt are, 1—The Seat of the amputation. 2. The Structure of Ihe Bone sawn. 3. Whether the operation is done for Injury or Disease. 4, If for disease, the Nature of the affection. 5. If for injury, the Time that has elapsed before the limb is removed. 1. With regard to the influence of the Seat of amputation on the result of the operation, it may be stated as a general rule, that the risk is greater in proportion as tlie size of the part that is amputated increases, and as the line ol amputation approaches the tnmk ; in fact, the nearer it is to the trmik, the greater is the danger. In the larger limbs, more especially in the thigh, every additional inch that is removed appears to make a difference in this respect. Thus, in oiu army in. the Crimea, of 178 amputations of the thigh ■14 were in the upper third, and of these 38, or 86 per cent., proved fatal;