693 CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. ■\Vheu the inflammation is passing off the pain abates, the colour fades, the swelling subsides, and the cuticle, that has been detached by the serous transu- dation, flakes off in thin layers. In other cases, oedema of the part continues, with some in-itability and redness of the skin and peeling of the cuticle ; and in some rai-e cases the simple erysipelas seems to take on a gangrenous or slough- ing character, especially about the umbilicus and genitals of young children. The Consiitutional Symptoms of the cutaneous or simple erysipelas present every variety between the sthenic and asthenic foi-ms of inflammatory fever. "When the disease occurs in London, it certainly most frequently assumes a low type. There is also in most cases a good deal of derangement of the digestive organs ; the tongue being much coated, there is tenderness about the epigas- trimn, the evacuations are dark and offensive, and not unfrequently there is diarrhoea. When the scalp is affected, severe headache, vrith symptoms of cerebral inflammation, are often met vith ; indeed there is always a danger of the supervention of cerebral compheations in cases of erysipelas of the face or scalp, and it may be said that the cutaneous form of erysipelas disease seldom proves fatal imless the scalj) be affected, and the brain consequently implicated. Even after a comparatively slight attack the patient is usually much reduced in strength, being frequently left in an ansemic and emaciated condition. •2. Cellulo-cutakeous or Phlegmonous Eeysipelas differs from the last variety in the degree of inflammation, and in the depth to which the tissues are iiu’olved. The intensity of this form of inflammation is so great that it invariably terminates, if left to itself, in diffused suppuration and sloughing. In depth it always extends to the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and, though generally bounded by the underlying fascirn, it not unfrequently implicates them if they have been opened up, and extends to the intermuscular areolar planes, the sheaths of the tendons, and other deep structm’es. Local Siyns. The cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous erysipelas is ushered in ])y the ordinary symptoms of inflammatory fever, accompanied or followed by the signs of severe inflammation in the part affected. The redness is uniform, of a deep scarlet hue, and pretty distinctly bounded ; the pain is fr’om the first pungent and burning, though it may soon assume a throbbing character ; the sv elling, at first soft, diffused, and admitting of distinct pitting, soon increases, and becomes tense and bra^vny, the skin being evidently stretched to its full extent, and the part appearing perhaps to be twice its natimal size. Large ■\esications or^ blebs containing sero-piumleut fiuid, sometimes of a sanious tinge, appeal in many cases. This condition usually continues up to the sixth 01 eighth day after the invasion of the disease, during the whole of which time tie constitutional symptoms have presented the ordinary type of sthenic in- ammatoiy fever ; about this time, however, a change commonly takes place, w Cl for better or for worse. If, under the infiuence of proper treatment, and m a 0 erably healthy constitution, the infiammation subside, resolution takes p ace, with a gradual abatement of all the symptoms. If, however, as usually appens, tie disease runs on to more or less sloughing or suppuration of the pm , no mcroasc of the swelling, pain, or redness takes place, but, on the con- ^iinmution of these signs may occur, and thus give rise to a decep- nart becomes daaldy congested, and tlie pmt, instead of being tense and brawny, has a somewhat loose, soft, and boo-o-y