POISONED WOUNDS. 250 considerable local disturbance in certain states of the constitution; so also those operatioii and disseetion-wounds which are ragged and torn, such as are made by sj)icida of bone or the teeth of a saw, arc peculiarly troublesome. 2. Putrescent Matters are always injiuious when introduced into the animal economy ; but at the same time it is a remarkable fact, that the worst eifects ot dissection-wounds have resulted from those received before putrefaction had set in, and that the most dangerous woimds more commonly occiu’ in 2^ost mortem inspections made a few hoiu’s after death, than in dissecting-room investigations on parts in an advanced stage of decomposition. 3. That the worst forms of dissection-wounds are dependent upon a Specific Septic Virus, is evident from the fact that it is especially after death from certain diseases, particularly those of an erysipelatous or i^ytemic type, that these consequences ensue. Most danger is to be apprehended from punctiu-cs receh'ed from the bodies of those who die of erysipelas, phlebitis, pyaemia, and the diffuse forms of peritonitis following partmition or the operation for hernia. And it is very important to remember that putrefaction is by no means neces- sary for this. The greatest danger exists before putrefaction sets in. A few hoiu-s after death, whilst apparently still quite fresh, the body is in the highest degree infectious and dangerous ; and I think that advanced putrefaction rather lessens than increases the danger. Indeed, the septic influence in these cases continues after death to be capable of producing in the living who are inocu- lated with it, a distinct affection of the nature of septsemia. Of aU these influ- ences, that which is generated by hernial or puerperal peritonitis is by far the most noxious. The acrid fluid which accumulates in the peritoneum when that structine is attacked by diffuse inflammation of the kinds just mentioned, appears to exercise a specifleaUy injurious influence. I beheve it to be im- possible to immerse the hand into it with impmiity if there shoifld happen to be a scratch, pmictine, or abraded surface of any kind on one of the Angers. Inoculation would, under such circumstances, ine'^dtably ensue, followed by diffuse inflammation to a gveater or less extent. It is, however, by no means necessary for ])ost mortem infection, that there be an abraded or broken surface through which the inoculated matter may be introduced into the system. Imbibition may take place through the unbroken cuticle ; and not unfrequently it is through the medium of the hair-foUicles that the septic poison enters. In the graphic account given by Sir James Paget of his own case, the septic influence is stated to have been absorbed through the unbroken cuticle of the hand immersed in pyeemic pleinitic effusion. I have known poisoning through the hair-follicles of the back of the hand to happen to another very distinguished member of oin profession. In other cases, again, infection appears to have taken place by absorption under the senulunai fold of skin at the base of the nail. That the poisonous influence fr-om the bodies oi persons who have died of septic diseases is transmissible to othei s by contact oi infection, cannot be denied ; and acconcheins and operating Smgeons should abstain as carefully as possible from performing post mortem examinations on patients dying from such diseases, lest the poisonous influence be canied to an excite similar morbid action in their own patients. Symptoms.—From what has been stated above, it would ap^iear that theie are two distinct kinds of mischief resulting from dissection-v ounds.