2WliTIFICATI0N, OR GANGRENE. 668 sion or complicate the gangrene ; and there may be every possible combination between this and an active inflammatory condition. In these circumstances, it will be necessary to conjoin an antiphlogistic plan of treatment with remedies of a tonic, or even stimulating character. It is this plan of treatment that is conunonly found to succeed best in spontaneous gangrene ; here moderate anti- phlogistic remedies are perhaps required in the earlier stages, with a light nutritious diet and mild tonics as the disease ad\'ances ; and in the latter periods, when the constitutional symptoms become asthenic, stimiilants should be given. The best stimulants are wine or porter, according to the patient’s habits of life ; and these should be given in combination with nourishment, BO as not merely to raise the pulse, but to produce a more permanent tonic influence on the system generally. If much depression occur, the medicinal stimulants, especially ether, ammonia, and camphor, are of material sendee. The only tonics that are of much value here, are the preparations of cinchona bark and some of the vegetable bitters, as gentian and cascariUa ; and though the specific virtues that were formerly attributed to them can no longer be accorded, yet when they do not irritate the stomach, they are of unquestion- able service in combating the asthenic symptoms, and improving the digestive powers. In these cases I look upon cinchona bark, in combination with chlorate of potash and ammonia, as of undoubted value. 2. After the proper employment of moans calculated to remove the constitu- tional cause of the gangrene, the system must he supported against the dehili- tating influences that accompany the yn-ocess of ulceration and of suppuration necessary for the separation of the mortified parts. 'During this period, there is less irritation but more debility, and stronger tonics and stimulants can be borne ; but we should be careful not to o'^'erstimulate the patient. On this point it is extremely difficult to lay do'wn any precise rule ; every iDossible variety as to the quantity and quality of food and stimulus being required by different individuals. The safest guides are the state of the pulse and tongue ; if they improve, the means employed agree. At the same time hygienic measiu’es should be carefully attended to ; cleanliness and free ventilation, with the abundant use of the disinfectants, are of the first moment, so that the patient may not be poisoned by his own exhalations. 3. The third indication, that of lessening the irritabilitg of the system that always supervenes, and which is partly owing to the severity of the pain, and specific, as Pott supposed, yet in many cases, and especially in the gangrene of the toes and feet of old people, it is undoubtedly a remedy of the greatest value. A grain of solid opium may be administered advantageously ever) sixth, eighth, or twelfth hour, according to the effect which it is foi^ncl to produce ; care being taken that the bowels do not become confined ihe hiccup, which is often distressing, is best remedied by the administration ot partly to the shaken and depressed state of the nervous system, is best carried out by the administration of opiiun ; and although this drug may not act as a long should be made, which by gaping Avidely allow