UNION OF FRACTURED BONE. 361 the new bone may be formed by the plastic exudation passing through a carti- lao-inous stage. Pm-e foetal cartilage has so far only been seen in the lower animals ; in man, the cartilage has always been of the fibrous variety. In those fractmes that arc transverse, and that remain in steady apposi- tion diu-ing ossification, and more especially if they be but thinly covered by soft parts, the union appears to take place directly and immediately between the opposed osseous surfaces ; there being no appearance of those accessoiy deposits of bone that usually go by the name of “provisional callus.” If, however, the fractine occur in a bone that is thickly invested by soft parts, masses of new bone will be thrown out around the fragments, evidently the result of deposition from the siuTounding inflamed tissues rather than from the injined periosteum or bone. The influence of the neighbouring soft parts in determining the. deposits of new bone is W'ell marked in the tibia. In a fractiu-e of this bone Ave And that, at the anterior and imier pai-t, Avhich is thinly covered, union takes place directly between the broken cuds : but at the posterior and outer side, Avhere there is a thick envelopment of tissue, a large mass of proAusional caUus will often be found, filling up even the interosseous space. That neighbourmg parts participate in the inflammation set up around the fractiu’e, and throw out callus, is evident from what takes place occasionally when one of the bones of the forearm or leg is broken. Periostitis is then set uj) in the unbroken bone, oj>posite the seat of fractm-e, and osseous matter is sometimes deposited by it. We have specimens illustrating this point in the University College Museum. In fractmes ocemTing in young infants, the quantity of callus throwi out is proportionately very gveat. This may perhaps be owing to the difficulty of maintaining such fractmes in steady apposition, and partly also to the activity of the nutritive process. If the fractme be not Avell reduced, the ends not being in proper apposition, or if it be commumted, masses of new bone are often deposited as buttresses or supports, or, enveloping the splinters, consolidate them Avith the rest of the shaft. So, also, Avhen the fractmed bones are not kept sufficiently quiet dming treatment, the neighboming parts become irritated, and proAusional callus is formed. Hence, as Paget has remarked, Ave connnonly find this deposit in frac- tmes of the ribs, AA^hich are kept in constant motion by the resphatory actions. In impacted fractmes there is, from the perfect apposition of the smfaces, but little callus foimed. From all this, I think it clear that in simple fr'actmes the p'ovisional caUus is deposited principally by the surroimding soft tissues, and also, to a certain extent, by the periosteum and medullary canal, its quantity being- dependent on the amount of in-itation sot up in these structures. The definitwe callus, on the other hand, is directly and immediately formed by the vessels of the fractured bone itselfi and the comparative Avant of A’ascular supply to this tissue may account for the sIoaatlcss of its formation. ^ Union of Compound Fractures.—The difference botAveen the miion of a simple and of a compound fracture is the same as that betAveen the heahno- of a subcutaneous and an open Avound. In the one case, the healing process takes place without any sensible local disturbance or constitutional'^derano-e- ment; in the other, it is accompanied by local inflannnation and suppuration.