485 dislocations of the elbow. death from sijncoDe, and exhaustion. Guf-rin’s remarkable case of avulsion of the Uml) at the elbow in a woman 03 years of age, in an attempt to restore a dislocated humerus three months after the luxation had occurred, is an instance of an accident that is as yet unique in the records of surgery. In this case no imdue amount of force seems to have been used, but the tissues of the limb had become softened and porous—partly probably from disuse, partly from senile changes. In the event of the Surgeon being unsuccessful in his attempts at reduction, he must endeaA'Oiu’, by means of frictions and passive motion, to restore, as far as practicable, the utility of the limb. In some of these cases of old reduced dislocation, I haA'c succeeded in very materially improving its condition by putting the patient under the influence of chloroform, and mooring the limb fr-eely to and fr-o so as to loosen, stretch, and break up the adhesions about the head of the bone ; and it is in this way that attempts at reduction, even though unsuccessful in replacing the head of the bone, are often of great use in improving the mobihty of the limb. In cases of old standing, where symptoms of pressime on the large vessels and nerves are present, and where there is danger of their being injured in the attempt at reduction, BiUi'oth recommends excision of the head of the bone. This has been done successfully by Langenbeck in a case of paralysis from pressime. Dislocations of the Elbow are by no means mifrequent accidents ; and, as they are often occasioned by direct violence, in consequence of which much swell ing speedily sets in, their signs are fr-equently obscured, and the diagnosis is rendered proportionately difficult; more especially when the dislocation happens to be complicated with fr’actiu’e of the articular ends of the bones. In these cases, indeed, it is only by an accurate acquaintance with the normal relations of the osseous points, and by a comparison between those of opposite sides, that the Siu’geon can detect the true natime of the injury. The Varieties of dislocation of the elbow-joint are very numerous, either both bones of the forearm or only one being implicated. 1. Both Bones.—The most common dislocation is that in which both bones are throivn Baclcivards, with or without fractiu’e of the coronoid process. This injiuy is readily recognised by the projection backwards of the olecranon, caiTying with it the tendon of the triceps. The articular end of the humerus also can be felt projecting in front of the elbow. When the coronoid process is not broken off, it is fixed against the posterior siu’face of the humerus, the forearm being inmiovably placed in its new position. When this process is fractured, there is great mobility about the joint, and crepitation may be felt as the arm is drawn forwards. Dislocation of both bones Forwards can scarcely occur without fracture of the olecranon. Eare as this accident must be, there are at least five cases on record by Colston, Lana, Delpech, Canton, Forbes of Philadelphia, and Date, in which the bones have been so displaced ivithout this process being broken. In this injuiy the elongation of the forearm, the projection of the condyles of the humerus, the presence of the sigmoid notch in front of the arm and the depression of the posterior surface of this bone, render the diagnosis sufficiently easy. In one case at University College Hospital, the injury ivas produced by the natient, a man 20 years of age, slipping on the pavement and.falling on his