ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. 17 A sm-gical operation was formerly, from the pain attending it, looked upon as a jnore serions aflair than it is at the present day, and surgeons were not wlhng to inflict suffering unless there were a good prospect of a successful issue. Now, however, that the most serious operations can be performed ^^^thout any consciousness of suffering, the Surgeon, in his anxiety to give his patient a chance of life, may not unfrequently operate for disease or injury that would otherwise necessarily and speedily be fatal, and which formerly would have been left without an attempt at relief. But there is another cause that may account for this increased rate of mortality. Dm-ing the last thirty years, the actual number of operations performed in hospitals has enoi'mously increased, and probably in a great measure owing to the employment of anesthe- tics. Hence hospital wards have become more crowded than formerly urth .severe operation-cases, and the causes of septic diseases have become much more rife, those diseases more fi'equent, and the mortality proportionately augmented. Making, however, all allowance for the extension of operative Surgery to extreme cases that were formerly not thought to come within its range, I cannot but thinlc that chloroform does exercise a noxious influence on the ■constitution, and does lessen the prospect of recovery in certain states of the system, more esjiecially when the blood is in an unhealthy state. In such circumstances, the depressing influence of chloroform appears to me to act injiu-iously ; the patient does not rally well after the operation, and inmiunity from suffering is pmehased by a lessened chance of recovery. Anaesthesia by the Administration of Chloroform is best commenced before the patient leaves his bed. The chloroform should never be given but by a person accustomed to its use, and on whose capability the Surgeon has full rehance ; as nothing is more embarrassing during an operation, than to have any doubt about the chloroform being properly administered. Chloroform may be .administered in many different ways, either on lint or on a handkerchief, or through an inhaler of some kind. The follovdng is the way in which chlorofoim may most safely be given on lint or a handkerchief, Anthout apparatus of any kind. On a piece of folded lint, about two inches square, and consisting of three doubles, about a di'achm of chloroform is poiu’ed ; and the lint is then held at a distance of about three inches from the nose of the patient, so as to permit a very fi-ea admixture of air Avith the first few inhalations of the vapoiu-. After the lapse of about half a minute, the lint is brought nearer to the patient’s i\ose, to AAithin a distance of perhaps an inch, being ncA'cr alloAvcd to touch ; at the same time a porous tOAvel, not doubled, is lightly laid OAnr the face of the patient and the hand of the operator, so as to preA'ent the escape of the chloroform-A'apour, but not to interfere AAoth the admission of air. During the whole time, it is the duty of the administrator to keep his hand on the pulse, to Avatch the breathing, and occasionally to examine the pupils of the patient. The method just described ansAvers Avell enough in most cases, but it affords no means of ascertaining the proportion of chloroform in the air Avhich is being in- haled by the patient. The administrator can judge only by the effects prodimed. There is a danger of the patient’s lungs being filled Avith a A'ery strong mixture • at the moment when the signs of an oA'erdose ai’o first perceived. IiUhe most VOL. I. c