409- FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. the base of the acromion. The attachment of such powerful muscles as the ]K;ctoralis minor, biceps, and coraco-brachialis, displaces the fragment con- siderably, and would do so still more, were it not that it is kept in position by the ligaments to which it gives insertion, and whose fibres are expanded over it. The only Treatment that can be adopted is to put the arm in a sling and fix it to the side. 4. Fracture of tlie JSTeck of the Scapula immediately behind the glenoid cavity is a rare injury. Its existence has been doubted: A. Cooper and South have stated that cases so described are, in reality, instances of fracture of the upper end of the humerus. There is, according to South, no preparation in any museum in London illustrating fr-acture of the neck of the scapula. A case, however, recorded by Spence in the EdMurg?!, Medical Journal for 1863, puts tile occasioual occmTence of the injury beyond doubt. A man was brought into the Edinburgh Infirmary, who had fallen on his shoidder while intoxicated. There was falling of the limb towards the axiUa, with projection of the acromion and flattening of the deltoid; and crepitus was felt. The contour of the shoulder was restored by drawing the arm from the side and raising the hmb. The man died some days afterwards from meningitis, the result of an injury to the forehead which he had received during the fall. On examining the shoulder, “the fracture was found to pass obhquely from below, upwards and forwards, commencing about half-an-inch behind the origm of the long head of the triceps, and separating the neck and four-fifths of the lower part of the glenoid cavity from the scapula. The long head of the biceps and the whole of the glenoid hgament had also been torn from the upper fragment of the glenoid cavity, and carried along with the displaced portion.” The Trecdmeni of such an injury, if it were diagnosed, would consist in keeping the whole aim well raised and fixed to the chest, with a pad in the axilla. Fractuees op the Humerus.—In studying the fractures of the humenis, we must divide that bone into three parts,—the Upper Articular End, the Shaft, and the Lower Articular End. 1. Fractures of the Upper Articular Fud of the Humerus not unfre- quently occur, constituting an important class of injuries which have been care- fully studied by Sir A. Cooper, and more recently by E. W. Smith, whose work on F'lactures deserves the attentive perusal of eveiy practitioner. Five kinds of fracture of the humerus are met with in the immediate vicinity of the shoulder-joint. Two of these are Intracapsular, viz., Simple Fracture ^ the Anatomical Neck, and Impacted Fracture of this portion of the bone. Ihe remaining three are Extracapsular, viz.. Fractures of the Singical Neck Simple and Impacted; and Separation of the Great Tubercle. Intracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus.—T\Tieii the acture occurs at the anatomical node, the head of the bone is detached from e tubercles, a little above or at the line of insertion of the capsule. This acture is occasioned by severe falls or blows on the shoulder. It cannot unera or fracture its shaft, hut it cannot break its upper articular