TUMOURS. 762 The ™-ty growths from the vulva, as tlic result of g„„oiThcoal iiritation, m.iy reach tlie size ol a ioctal head. Simirle warty gi-owths are not nitcommoii in the larynx. tSnnplc cutaneous warts are often pigmented (Fig. 289), being Fig. 289.—Papilloma of Soft Palate (JO diam.) it. Superficial eiiitlielium, containing a few vessels which are cut transversely. 6. 1 ouiiger epithelium : iii the deeper parts the cells are more deeply stained and radiate from the centre. e. Coimeotive tissue forming tlie papilltv, into the ramifleations of wliicli it is proloimed d. Vessels cut ohliquely. of a bluish-black coloiu’. In these the i^apillte may not be eA’ideiit to the naked eye, but the microscope sboAvs them to be composed of greatly enlarged papillm, the spaces betiA-een Avbicb are filled with epithelium. Ill Condylomata and -Mucous Tubercles the enlarged papillte are soft, and contain a great abimdance of small round cells, giifing evidence of their rapid growth. They occm- about the anus and in the perinteum aud folds of the nates, as ivell as occasionally in the larynx and fauces. They are always dependent on a syphilitic taint. When situated on the mucous membranes, they are often pointed, somewhat pendulous or nodulated on the sin-face, I'ery A'ascnlar, and bleed readily Avhen touched ; but when they occur on a mneo- entaneous siu-face, they are flattened, expanded, soft, and ivhite, constituting the true condylomata or mucous tubercles. Some forms of polypi are properly classed amongst papillomata. Thus the simple polyiins of the rectum may be a soft papilloma bearing columnar epithe- lium. In some rare cases, the epithelium has been found to be scaly. The papilbn may branch again and again, the peduncle being comparatii-ely small. It is difficult, hoAvever, to draAV any accurate line between such papillomata * and the adenoid cancer to he described hereafter. The common form of villoua tumour of the bladder, frequently described as “ aIIIous cancer,” should also nndouhtedly he included under papillomata. This tmnom- is composed of long delicate processes floating freely in the caA’ity of the bladder, attached only at their bases. They each consist of a dilated capillary loop, sniToniidcd by an almost liomogencons conncctiA'C tissue, containing a few scattered round or oval cells, and coA'ered Avith an epithelium of an irregular shape, often resembling spiudle-cells in form, and similar to that naturally lining the bladder. This epitheliiun is A'cry difficult to find, as it soon separates by maceration in the urine after death. The base fr'om Avhieli the A'illi groAv is