TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURE. 385 iiblc condition, it may recover itself: its vessels gradually depositing lymph in points on its surtace, and tins lymph becoming vascnlariscd, so as to cover the bone with a layer of florid granulations; in other eases, necrosis to a greater or less extent takes place, and perfect consolidation does not occm’ until the bone has separated. Ciuiing has sho-wn that those portions of necrosed bone are slowest in detaching themselves, which are connected with the lower fragment. In some instances a large quantity of proxusional callus is throAvn out, in which the necrosed bone is implicated ; and then the process of separa- tion becomes extremely tedious and protracted, and amputation may not un- commonly become necessaiy, from the powers of the patient being unable to bear up in so prolonged a stniggle. So soon as some consohdation has taken place, the limb should be firmly put up in gutta-percha or leather splints, with a starched bandage, so as to enable the patient to be taken out of bed, to change the air of his room, and thus to keep up his general health. In fitting these splints, care must be taken to make an aperture opposite the woimd, through which it may he dressed (Fig. 143). Xeudbrfer has introduced a dry plaster of Paris dressing for compound frac- tures, especially those produced by gun-shot, and indeed, for aU attended by excessive suppiuation. From this means he derived the best possible results in the German wars of 186‘4 and 1866. His method is as follows. Beneath the seat of injury he places eight layers of hnen cloth, and on this several pounds of dry gypsum are poured, so that it lies under and around the fractiue until there is a wall heaped up on each side of the wound, which is also covered in. The hnen cloths are then brought over like a many- tailed bandage, and the whole is tied up by short lengths of bandage. As the plaster becomes impregnated with pus, it is scraped off, hut the wound is on no account to be meddled with ; new plaster is apphed whez’e the old, which has become pasty, has been removed. Heudorfer states that, when compound ti-acture has been treated by the fixed plaster bandage, this shoidd be generally removed at the end of fourteen days. After this the dry method, as above described, may be ajDplied, and no splint or other extending or containing apparatus is required. It may be observed that, as plaster of Paris does not. set with albuminous fluids, it is not hardened by the pus, but merely absorbs it, becoming pasty. The time required for the proper consolidation of a compound fractui’e 'a^ies greatly, according to the amount of injury done to the bones and soft parts, and the age and constitution of the patient. In the most favoimable circumstances, it requires double or treble the time that is necessaiy for the unipn of a simple fi’actiu’e. Much stiffness of the limb from rigidity of the muscles and tendons wiU continue for a considerable length of time ; this may giadually be removed by fr’ictions and douches. Secondary Amputation may become necessary fr'om the occuiTence of raumatic gangrene, and then it must bo done in accordance with the prin- cip es already laid down when spealdng of that operation ; but more fr-cquently 1 IS required from failure of the powers of the patient in consequence of irrita- nc and asthenic fever, induced by general disorganisation of the hmb or by ICC 1C resulting fr-om profuse suppuration and slow necrosis of the bones. In ese circumstances, the constitution sufiers from the local irritation which is c c