9or TRA UAFATIC PARALYSIS. impairment of sensation or of motion in a limb, to complete annihilation of both. But not only does the actual degree of loss of sensory or motor power A ary gi'eatly, but the relative degree of impairment of sensation and of motion is equixlly variable. In the great majority of cases both are tolerably equally affected. But, in not a few instances, the diminution of one far exceeds that of the other. Thus the motor power may to a great extent be lost in a part, whilst sensation appears to be normal. But this is often more apparent than real; for a diminution of motor power, however trifling, is at once perceived ; whilst an impairment of sensation, even though considerable, may long escape detection, hlence it is that motion seems to be more frequently lost than sensation, though the latter may be equally impaired. A person who suffers from a slight degree, hoAvever trifling it may be, of impairment of motion or of want of harmony between the action of the muscles of a part, may not be conscious of this while at rest, but it manifests itself unmistakably when he brings the part into movement,- whilst neither he nor others may be capable of observing the cor- responding loss of sensibihty unless it he most minutely and accmately tested. But not oidy may sensation and motion, one or both, be impaired or lost, but the more complete loss of one of these may be associated with an exaltation of the other. Thus there may be loss of motion in a part, with increased or nervous sensibility of it; in these circumstances, instead of being relaxed and soft, as is the case when there is anaesthesia, it is most commonly rigidly contracted, hard, and resistant, a species of nemalgic paralysis being developed. Or the converse condition may exist, and loss of sensation more or less complete may be associated with muscular tremor or spasm. 1. Paralysis from Compression or Injury of the Brain (vide Chapter XXIV.) may be occasioned by pressm-e primarily exercised on the sui’face of the organ, as by a portion of depressed bone, of clotted blood, or foreign body of any kind ; or it may arise, secondarily, as the result of inflannnatory efFusion, of softening and disintegration of the cerebral tissue, and consequent effusion of blood into its interior. It need scarcely be said that, the more a compressing cause is localised to one hemisphere, the more likelihood Avill there be of the paralytic symptoms assuming the hemiplegic character, affecting the side opposite to that injined. The more general the compression, and the more it implicates the base of the brain, the greater the probability of the paralysis being more or less general. So these forms of paralysis, when secondary or remote, depending on lesion of the brain-substance, of a disintegrating charac- ter, are often mixed up with many symptoms that point to the coexistence of chrome fonns of meningeal inflammation, and also a series of complex pheno- mena that are not vciy easily unravelled. 2. Those forms of Paralysis that arise from Injury of the Spinal Cord may either be primary, depending on its compression or section, or more or less complete destruction, as in fractures or dislocation of the spine, or its complete compression by mtraspinal meningeal haemorrhage ; or they may be secondary mid clue to more or less rapid and complete softening and disintegration of the cord, as the result of impairment of the nutrition dependent on changes due to inflammatory mischief extending to it from its membranes, originating in fr as the direct consecpience ofinjmy. In all these cases, the paralysis partakes ol the paraplegic character. The degree to which it extends mil iieLssarily