848 VE-NEllEAL DISEASES. being entirely absent. Besides the presence of induration, the Hunterian cbaneie is chaiacteiised by its circular shape, its elevation above the surround- ing parts, and sometimes by a very adherent grey slough that covers its surface. It is usually seated on the glans ; but not unfrcquently on the skin of the prepuee, or of the root of the penis. In this form of chancre there is almost invariably enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the groin. Seat and Numhei-. The indurated primary ulcers of syphilis are most frequent on the (lenitals, but not so exclusively limited to those parts as are- local venereal sores, because syphilis is communicated in various ways besides, that of sexual intercourse, and thus may appear on any part of the body., Fournier found that, of 472 cases of inoculation in men, 314 were on the- prepuce and glans penis, 10!) on other parts of the male organ, 12 only on the- mouth, 6 on the hands and fingers, and a few on the eyelids, tonsil, and naveL Syphilis not unfrequently occurs amongst Surgeons and accoucheurs as a. consequence of inoculation on the fingers, during the dressing of a venereali sore, or the delivery of a diseased woman ; and is also occasionally met with- among non-professional persons. It usually appears as a small sore by the side- of the nail and under its matrix, mth mirch swelling, redness, and pain in the finger, which becomes bulbous ; pain and swelhng of the axillary glands soon, follow. If the natiu’e of the disease be not rccog-nised, the ulceration will creep round the tip of the finger, have a foul and sloughy look, with exquisite tenderness, and, resisting all ordinaiy treatment, may be set down as malignant; on which supposition the amputation of the finger has been proposed and practised. I have seen at least four cases in which this extreme measure has been proposed, but in which, by a timely discovery of the true nature of the= affection, the finger was saved. In some cases of disgusting depra^•ity, chancres are met with at the margin' of the anus and on the lips and tongue. These are always indiuated ; and horn their foul surface, hard base, aud persistent character, may readily be mistaken for cancerous affections, but the diagnosis is easy, for it will usually be found; that they occur in girls and young women Avho have not reached the cancerous age; indeed in women at any period of life cancer of the bps is extremely j-are—so much so, that I have uever seen a case. Inoculation Avill always determine their true nature. Induration. The hardening of the tissues around the point of inocidatiou varies in the extent to which it is developed. It is most marked in the skin, where it takes the form of a nodule or lump, often no larger than a split pea, but sometimes as large as a walnut. Now and then, on the thin prepuce, it is spread Avidely in a shallow layer, and gives the foreskin the “ parchment indu- ration ” of Eicord. This induration remains for some time around the point of contagion, usually two or three months, though, when very scantily developed, it may vanish in a fortnight or three weeks. Ultimately it always disappears ; though, if irritated, it is very apt to break down into obstinate ulcem. It is maintained by many Surgeons of great authority, that induration-of the site of contagion is by no means a constant production. The numbei of cases where induration is not palpably evident is A-ery small; and, though ju’obably it is sometimes wholly wanting, it is a rare exception for it to be so. Much induration is often thought to produce a seA'cre course of syphilis, and