INJUUIES OF THE SPINE. J586 inifcics, of the gcuitiil organs, and ol tlic trunk as high as the scat of injury. Iheic is always relaxation ot the sphincter ani, rvith consequent inconti- nence of flatus, and, to a great extent, of fteces. Tlicre is at first, reten- tion of inine in consequence of the paralysis of the bladder, which is unable to expel its eontcirts ; after a time, however, the urine dribbles aw'ay as fast as it is poured into the overdistended organ, the neck of which has lost its contractile sphincter-like action. The reason why there are incontinence of faeces and retention of urine in these cases, is this. The sphincter ani and the muscular fibres of the Idadder are both voluntary and under the influence of the spinal system, "When paraplegia exists, the restraining power of the .sphincter ani and the expelling power of the bladder are both lost. Hence the bladder cannot expel its contents : wlule the anus cannot retain those of the intestines, Avhich are brought down to it by the peristaltic movements Avhich are not spinal, but under the influence of the sympathetic nciwous system. After the first few" days the urine becomes ammoniacal in odour, tuid alkaline in reaction. This is iwobably owdng to changes that it undergoes after it has passed into the bladder, the mucous membrane of Avhich becomes chronically inflamed, secreting a viscid alkaline muco-pus, Avhich mixes A\ith the urine. In the early stages of the accident, the penis Avill usually be obseiwcd to be in a state of semi-erection. Patients w'ho have met Avith injiu’ies of this portion of the spinal cord may live on for many months, and eA'en for ■a year or tAvo, falling into a cachectic state, but eA'entually die, usually Anth sloughing of the nates, or from the supervention of some interciurent visceral inflammation of Ioav type. 2. When the cord is diA'ided in the Upper Dorsal Region, about the level ■of the third doi'sal A'ertebra, avc have not only the train of symptoms that haA'e just been mentioned as characteristic of this injury low^er down, but the respi- ration also is interfered Avith in consequence of the paralysis of the greater qjortioii of the expiratory muscles. The intercostal muscles, and those con- stituting the abdominal AvaU, no longer acting, imperfect expiration is solely olfected by the elasticity of the Avails of the chest ; and the pmnly musciflar expiratory movements, such as sneezing and coughing, cannot be accomplished. In these cases, during inspiration, which is efiected almost exclusiA'ely by the diaphragm, the ribs are depressed instead of being expanded and raised ; and the abdominal AvaU, Avhich is soft and flaccid, is protruded far beyond its normal limits. In consequence of the impediment to respiration the blood is not properly arteriahsed, and slow asphyxia goes on, usually running into congesth'e pneumonia, and terminating fatally in about a fortnight or three AA'eeks. 8. WTaen the injury is situated in the Lower CerAdcal Region, not only do all the preceding symptoms occiu, but there is paralysis of the iqApei extremities as Avell; and,’ the inspiration being entirely diaphragmatic, the circulation speedily becomes affected, the lungs surcharged and cedematous, the countenance assuming a sulfused and purplish look. If the coid uiac been divided immediately aboA'e the brachial plexus, there will be complete paralysis of the Avhole of the upper extremities ; but if the injury be opposite the sixth cervical A'ertebra, they may be only partially paralysed. I is laji pened in two cases of fracture of the spine in this region that weie some jeais