SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. 828 . or calnmba. In many cases of strumous disease, more especially those alfectino- the joints and bones, the liver 'will be found to be enlarged and sluggish in its action, the patient every no’w^ and then becoming bilious, sallo-iv, and'jaundiced ; in these circumstances, small doses of blue pill, carried off with the comj)ound decoction of aloes or a rhubarb draught, will be found necessary from time to time. ^ When all gastric irritation has been rcmo^'cd in this way, or if it have not existed in the usual marked degree from the first, the patient being pale and fiabby, Avith a weakened condition of the pulse, of the skin, and of the mucous surface, then tonics may be administered, and the more specific treat- ment adopted. The gTeat remedies which are employed Avith the A'ieAV of removing scrofula and ciu’ing the secondaiy affections AA^hich it induces, are iron, iodine, the pre- parations of potash, and cod-liA’cr oil. These are all extremely useful, either singly or conjoined, as they serve to carry out distinct indications in the management of this affection. Iron is most useful in improA'ing the nutrition of pale flabby ana3mic sub- jects, increasing markedly the quantity and quality of blood in the system. The best preparations for children are, I think, the vinum fern and the syrup of the iodide of iron. In older persons the tincture of the perchloride, and some of the fonns of the citrate or the phosphate of iron, appear to be most seniceable ; in other cases, again, the natural chalybeate Avaters Avill be found to agree best. Iodine is especially valuable in promoting the absorption of effused plastic matters, and in lessening the morbid hyj)ertrophies Avhich so commonly take place in scrofula. The preparation nsually employed is the iodide of potassium. In order that this may produce its full effects, it should be given as freely as the patient will bear it, continued for a considerable length of time, and espe- cially administered in combinations with other preparations of potash. With the view of preventing it from in-itating the stomach, it should be given in a considerable quantity of some bland fluid. Its combination Avith the other salts renders it more efticacious in removing strumous enlargements and deposits of aplastic and tubercidous matter. For this pinpose I have fonnd the foUoAving form extremely usefid for adults, the dose being proportionately diminished in the case of children :—R Potassii iodidi, Potassse chloratis, aa 5]; PotassaA bicarbonatis, 5iij- Divide into tAvelve powders, of which one is to be taken night and moniing in half a pint of warm milk. In other cases, the liquor j)otassa3, Brandish’s alkaline solution, or lime-Avater given fr’eely in milk, are serAuceable ; bnt I prefer the above prescription. Cod-liver oil, Avhich may be looked upon rather as an article of diet than as a medicine, is of essential utility in improAing the nutrition of the body in cachectic and emaciated states of the system, more particularly in groAA'ing children, or in indiAuduals Avho are suffering from the wasting effects ot strumons suppuration ; it not oidy fattens but strengthens the system, increas- ing decidedly the muscular power and the quantity of red corjAuscles in the blood. It may often very adA^antageonsly be administered in combination a\ ith the iodides of potassium or iron, and giA'en after meals. Of the other tonic remedies AA’hich may be employed in this affection, such as the preparations of larlc and of sarsapardla, I need say nothing beyond that