COLLOID OR GELATINOUS CANCER. 785 . cf.uiiPfl md blotched with bloody patches, varying in colour from a Shared to a maroon-brown, this being dependent on blood inmtrated into its substance. In other cases, its section has been compaied to tot of a iw potato, or a piece of boiled udder. On it will be found to present a structure essentially smnlai to that of that is to say, an alveolar stroma enclosing groups of free cells of an cpithelia type The Llls may in some cases be larger, but arc often smaller than those usually seen in scirrlms (Fig. 307). They assume the same irregailar to und have each one or more highly refracting nuclei and nucleoli. The pio- iiortion of the bulk of the tumour composed of cells is, however, infinitely ii-eater in cncephaloid than in scirrhus, and the vascularity of the ti^om- is proportionately increased. The tumour does not show the same tendency to iicatricial contraction, although fatty degeneration always occiu’S 111 the central ^^Other Varieties of Cancer.—Special names have been given to varieties of cancer, dependent merely on peculiarities of appearance or structure. Two only of these, the Colloid and the Mdanotic, require notice in this place. Colloid, Gelatinous, or Alveolar Cancer may occur in distinct masses, often of a very large size, weighing many pounds, or may be infiltrated into the tissue of organs. As it is most commonly met with in the viscera of the abdo- men, it does not so often fall under the observation of the Siu’geon as the other varieties of cancer. Yet it may form superficially. I have met with it in the breast, forming a very large tumour ; and there is a preparation in the Univci- sity College Museum of a scirrhous breast containing colloid. Colloid cancer M K \\uv Fig. 308.—Colloid of Oineutiuii (188 diam.). Shows the concentric ring.*) and the gramihir masses which h ive taken tlie place of tlie cells; and at one part a few ejlls still retain their shape. Fig. 309.—A. Colloid of Breast. Shows re- lation of cells to stroma, and the colloid material in some cases fllling the cell, in others pushing the nucleus to one side or completely surrounding it. b. Isolated cells from the same tumour. C. Isolated cells from colloid of omentum. (4.54 dinm.) •consists of alveolar spaces of great size, filled with a clear semi-transparent yellmvish gelatinous or honey-like material, resembling indeed somewhat the structure of a honcy-coml). The septa forming these spaces arc distinctly fibrous and regular in their aiTaiigcment (Fig. 308). Some of the spaces are completely filled with colloid matter, others may show a few cells containing VOL. I. 3 E