INJUlilJCS OF THE SPINE. 576 Fii Spinal Meningitis, the usual signs of inflammatory action in the form ot vascnlaiisation of tlio membranes ai’e met with. The meningo-rachidian veins aie tuigid with blood, and the vessels of the pia mater are much injected, sometimes in patches, at othei’ times nnitormly. Serous fluid, reddened and clear, or opaque from the admixture of lymph, may be found largely effused in the cavity of the arachnoid. In distinguishing the various pathological appear- ances presented by fatal cases of chronic spinal meningitis, Ollivier makes the very important remark that spinal meningitis rarely exists without there being at the same time a more or less extensive inflammation of the cerebral men- inges ; and hence, he says, arises the difficulty of determining with preci- sion the symptoms that are special to inflammation of the membranes of the spinal cord. When Myelitis ocem’s, the inflammation attacking the substance of the cord itself, the most usual pathological condition met rvith is softening, with more or less disorganisation. This softening of the cord, as a consequence of inflammation, may occupy very varying extents. Sometimes the whole thick- ness of the cord is affected at one poiirt, sometimes one of the lateral halves in a vertical directioir ; at other times the disease is most marked in or whoUy confined to its anterior or its posterior aspect; or the grey central portion may be more affected than the circumferential part. Again, these changes of struc- tiu-e may be limited to one part only, to the cervical, the dorsal, or the lumbar. It is very rarely indeed that the whole length of the cordis affected. The most common seat of inflammatory softening is the lumbar region ; next in order of frequency is the cervical. In very chronic cases of myelitis, the whole of the nervous substance disappears, and nothing but connective tissue is left at the part affected. Ollivier observes that, when myelitis is consecutive to menin- gitis of the cord, the inflammatory softening may be confined to the white substance. Though softening is the ordinary change that takes place in a cord that has been the seat of chi'onic inflammation, sometimes the nervous substance becomes increased in bulk, more solid than natural, and of a dull white coloirr, like boiled white of egg. This induration may co-exist with spinal meningitis, vdth congestion, and increased vascularisation of the membranes. It is important to observe that, although spinal meningitis and myelitis are occasionally met with distinct and separate, yet they most frequently co-exist. "When existina: tosrether, and even arising from the same cause, they may be associated in very varying degrees. In some cases the symptoms of meningitis, in others those of myelitis, are most marked ; and, after death, con’esponding characteristic appearances are found. Impairment of Vision from Spinal Injury.*—One of the most frequent and most troublesome effects of spinal injury is a certain degree of impairment of vision, Avhich assumes different characters, and comes on at very varying periods after the injiiiy. There is often a considerable inten-al intervenes between the occurrence of the injury and the development of the eye-symptoms ; and, if the patient be confined to bed, and be not called upon to use his eyes, it may be • For a fuller consideration of the sul.jeot of tSrSIlne'" Nervous System, I would refer iny reader to Lecture 10, Concussion of the &i no, j J.ouginans, 1875.