VENEREAL DISEASES. 856 CYidencecl by his becoming weak and thin, but the reparative actions are lessened, wounds do not heal kindly, and fractures arc slow in unitinr^, and may not unite at all until antisyphilitic remedies are administered. I he syphilitic affections occurring on the skin and mucous membranes are usually secondary, though some belong to the tertiary group ; whilst those ot the bones and different organs, as the larynx and testes, are commonly tertiarj'. Although the integimiental structures are usually first affected, yet sometimes the disease first attracts attention by its attacks upon the deeper and more important tissues, the symptoms of its progress on the skin and mucous mem- branes having been entirely overlooked. In women, it is constantly the case for the eruptive stage to be confined to a few mucous patches of the vulva and excoriations of the fauces, the former only of which are sufficiently annoying to attract the patient’s attention. CmcuMSTANCES iNPLUENCHfG- PROGRESS.—The Severity and manifestations of general disorder which follow the contagion are very various ; thus, a widely and long indimated ulcer foretells mth few exceptions a long and severe coiu’se of syphihs ; so, also, a short interval between the appearance of the symptoms of general disorder at the point of contagion will also indicate a severe course of the disease, and a long interval a mild course of the after-consequences. That the treatment of the primary sore exercises considerable influence, cannot be doubted. The severity of the coiu’se of syphihs is, I believe, materially lessened, and not in any way increased, by a mercurial coiu’se, if that course be properly conducted. The state of the yMtienVs health also determines to a great extent the kind of attack he wiU have to undergo. If, after the cure of the primary disease, his health continue good, the patient may almost wholly escape finther symptoms of the disease ; but if the health be broken or cachectic, then secondary syphilis AviU occiu’ contemporaneously with, or at a very early period after, the primary disease ; and, indeed, I generally look upon the chance of the speedy super- vention of secondary syphihs as more immediately dependent on this than on any other cause. It is remarkable for how long a time the syphilitic poison Avih continue dormant in the constitution without producing any local manifes- tation of its existence, until this is developed under the influence of a broken state of health. I have had under my care an extremely severe case of con- stitutional syphihs, in which twelve years elapsed after the occmTence of the primary disease, during the whole of which time no secondary affection was observed until the patient’s health gave way from other causes. And I have also had imder my care an officer, in whom a very severe form of constitutional syphihs occiuTed, for the first time, after salivation for hepatic disease, five years after the primary sore had been contracted—no constitutional manifes- tation having attracted the patient’s notice in the meanwhile. Not only does a state of iU-health hasten the occiuTcnce of secondary syphihs, but cachexy, neglect, or indifference to its existence may keep it up indefinitely. The question as to there being any connection between the nature of the primary sore, and the character of the consecutive constitutional affection, has been much discussed ; and I agree Avith Carmichael, that the different forms of primaiy sore AviU, if left to thcmselA'cs, bo folloAA'cd each by its oaa n peculiar train of constitutional symptoms. In fact I am fidly convinced, as the result