SPECIAL EISLOGATIONS. 486 elbow. In this instance tbe elbow was mncli bent ; it could be brought to a right angle, and straightened considerably. The forearm was three quarters of an inch longer than its fellow. The condyles of the hmnerus were on a level Avith the olecranon; the tendon of the triceps was very tight, and the sigmoid notch could be plainly felt on the fore part of the arm. The head of the radius could also be felt in front of the humerus. In the case recorded in the Lancet, 1872, by Mr. Date of Crewkerne, the dislocation was forwards and outwards, so that the head of the radius lay outside the external condyle. At the same time, the epiphysis at the inner condyle was separated. When the olecranon is broken off, there is elongation of the forearm and great mobility, but the detached fragment can be felt behind the humerus. The Lateral dislocation of the bones of the forearm is almost invariably in- complete ; either the head of the radius hitching against the internal condyle, or the ulna coming into contact with the external one. Complete lateral dislocation of the bones of the forearm is excessively rare : the only instance Avith which I am acquainted is a luxation outwards, reported by N61aton, of which he has given a woodcut. The ulna or radius alone may be displaced ; and in some cases, both bones are dislocated, but in opposite directions. 2. Ulna.—The only dislocation to which the ulna alone is subject is that in a direction BackAvards. Although this displacement may occiu’ in an uncom- plicated form, it is more frequently associated Avith more or less dislocation of the head of the radius. When it occm's, it may be recognised by the projection of the olecranon backwards, and by the head of the radius being felt in its normal situation, or nearly so, dming the movements of pronation and supination. In some extremely rare cases the coronoid process is fractmed at the same time, causing ready disappearance and reciUTence of the dislocation, with crepitus. 3. Radius.—The radius alone may be dislocated fonvards, lachiuards, or outivards. The dislocation ForAvards is certainly the most common. In the many instances of it that I have seen, it has resulted from a fall on the palm of the hand, by which the loAver end of the radius is driven backwards, while the upper end is tdted forwards Avith the whole force of the leverage of the bone, and in this way, ruptiu'hig the annular ligament, is throAAui against the external condyle. The signs of this displacement are the folloAviug. The fore- arm is slightly flexed, and in a mid state between pronation and supination ;' any attempt at completing the latter position occasions great pain, as does also the endeavom’ to straighten the arm. The elboAV can only be bent at an obtuse angle, in consequence of the head of the radius being suddenly brought up against the lower end of the humerus, against which it strikes vrith a sudden shock (Figs. 214, 21G). On rotating the radius much pain is experienced, and the head of the bone can be felt to roll on the fore part of the hiuuerus, the external condyles of Avhich project unnatmaUy. The hand and arm can be fully pronated, but cannot be supinated more than halt Avay. The Avhole of the outer side of the arm is deformed, being earned someAvhat upwards (Fig. 215). The ruptime of the annular ligament in this dislocation makes it very ditflc'ult to keep the head of the radius properly fixed, so as to prevent a recmi’ence of the displacement. In some cases, and indeed not unfrequently, there is incomplete disloca-