INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 562 making fresh trephine-aporfcurcs. Tn no case would a prudent Surgeon trephine over the coui'se of the middle meningeal artery in the absence of local symp- toms, on the chance of finding the blood there, as has been recommended by some of the older Surgeons. The most serious objection to the application of the trephine in cases of extravasation does not, however, consist so much in the difficulty of determining that blood has been effused within the skull, or that the extravasation is of the meningeal form, as in the difficulty of diagnosing that it is so seated between the diua mater and the skull as to admit of removal; not being effused at the base, nor so widely coagulated over the surface of the brain as to bo unable to escape through the aperture that may be made. The likelihood of the co-existence of fracture of the base of the skull and of lace- ration of the brain, giving rise to the cerebral form of extravasation, must also be taken into accoimt. For these various reasons, Sm’geons now very wisely content themselves, in the great majority of cases of extravasation, with the employment of antiphlogistic treatment, on the principles already stated. The head should be shaved, the ice-bladder apphed, the patient bled, purged, and kept at perfect rest. If, however, the signs be lugent, and pretty clearly indicate the meningeal form of extravasation, and more especially it there be hemiplegia on the side opposite to that on which the blow has been received, with an injury in the course of the middle meningeal artery, the trephine may be applied at the seat of injiuy and the blood removed. The middle meningeal artery will be found at a point one inch and a half behind the external angular process of the frontal bone and from one inch and a half to two inches above the zygoma. A T-shaped incision should be made wth one part paraUel to the zygoma and one at right angles to it, the centre of the vertical uicision being opposite the point above mentioned. The fibres of the temporal muscle ai-e cut through, the bone cleaned, and the crown of a large trephine applied, with the pin of the instrument over the spot where the vessel is supposed to lie. Under this the extravasated blood and the artery Avill be found. OPERATION OP TREPHINING-. Before concluding the subject of injinies of the head, it is necessary to say a few words on the operation of Trephining, which, though far less commonly employed in the present day than heretofore, is one of sufficient frequency, as weU as of great importance from the serious nature of the cases that require it. The operation of trephining may be required for one of the six foUomng 1 Simple depressed fractm-e of the cranium with symptoms of compiession. 2. Compound depressed fractime of the cranium, with or ivithoiit symptoms •of compression. 3. Pimctiu’ed or incised fractiu’e of the cranium. 4. Extravasation of blood between the craniimi anddima mater from iiiptuie of the middle meningeal artery. 5. Intracranial abscess. G. For the removal of a bullet lodged ivithin the ci'anuuii. The trephine may thus be applied to the skull for t e ” itr^con- two principles ; either with the view of preventing inflammation and ts co sequLes, or fcr the purpose of removiug some eause of compressmu. Ihe