IXJUEIES OF SPIFF IN CONCUSSION. 5^9 beyond a certain time, changes wll take place in the cord and its membranes which arc incompatible with the proper exercise of its functions. Injuries of the Vertebral Column in Concussion.—In concussion of the spinal cord, there is, in addition to the lesion of the cord, serious injury inflicted on the ligamentous and bony structures of the vertebral column. This injury, however, must be considered as an accidental complication, as it does not necessarily occasion, or even aggravate, the mischief done to the medulla. Thus the ligaments may be torn through so as to allow partial sepa- ration of contiguous vertebrm ; or, a vertebra may be fractured, but without any displacement of the broken fr-agments, or other sign byAvhich it is possible during life to determine the exact amoimt of injury inflicted on the parts external to the cord. In this respect injuries of the spine closely resemble those of the head ; their chief importance depending on the amount of injmy inflicted upon the contained parts. In the spine, as in the head, it vnW some- times be found after death fr-om Avhat appears to be, and in reality is, simple injury of the nervous centres, that the vertebral column in the one case, and the skull in the other, has suffered an amount of injmy .unsuspected dining life ; and which, though it may not in any way hai’e determined the fatality of the results, yet affords conclusive evidence of the violence to which the parts have been subjected, and the inteiisity of the disorganising shock that they have suffered. There is, however, a very essential difference betiveen the spine and the head. A simple fracture of the cranium may be of no moment, except so far as the A’iolence that has occasioned it may have influenced the brain. In the spine, the case is not parallel; for, as the vertebral column is the centre of support to the body, its function in this respect will be lost when it is broken; even though the spinal cord may not have been injured by the edges of the fractmed vertebrae, but simply violently and fatally concussed by the same force that broke the spine. Boyer noticed the veiy interesting practical fact, that, when the mterspinous ligaments ivere ruptmed in consequence of forcible flexion of the spine for- Avards, no fatal consequences usually ensued, the integrity of the parts being restored by rest; but that, when the ligamenta subflava were torn through, and the arches separated, paraplegia and death folloAA'ed. This he attributed to stretching of the spinal cord. Sh C. Bell, however, Avith great acuteness, has pointed out the error of this explanation, and states that “ it is the progress of the inflammation to the spinal marrow, and not the pressiu’e or the extension of it, which makes these cases of subluxation and breach of the tube fatal.” There can be no doubt that this explanation is the correct one ; and that, Avhen once the spinal canal is forcibly torn open, fatal inflammation Avill spread to the meninges and to the medulla itself. Effects of Slight BIoavs.—The consideration of the effects that may bo produced on the spinal cord by sN^ht diows, Avhethcr applied to the back or to a distant part of the body, has long arrested the attention of observant prac- titioners. Abercrombie, AAU-iting in 1829, says, that chronic inflammation of the cord and its membranes “ may supervene upon very slight injuries of the spine.” He says also, “ Every injury of the spine should be considered as deserving of minute attention. The more immediate cause of anxiety in such