I NFL A MM A TION. 128 called into active operation. It is also probable that the salines alter the con- stitution of the blood, dissolving- tlic fibrine and lessening tbe quantity of water, both of which constituents are in excess in inflammation. Aconite in small doses frequently repeated—one minim of the tincture every half hour for four horns and then every hour—exercises a most marked influ- ence on simple inflammatory fever when there are no ^dsceral complications. It lowers the force and frequency of the pulse, and produces speedy and copious sweating, to the infinite relief of the patient. In many forms of sthenic inflammation, especially those Avhich afiect the serons and fibrous membranes, we do not possess a more eflicient agent than mercury, administered, not as a pingative, but as an alterath'e to the system. And I confess that I can in no way give my adherence to the doctrines of those AA’ho, disregarding the daily evidence of professional experience, deny the utility of the preparations of this mineral in the treatment of certain forms of inflam- matory disease. Mercurial remedies are of special sendee in aiding the opera- tion of other medicines. Diinetics, diaphoretics, and pmgatives, aaoU fr’equently not act properly unless conjoined with a mercinial. In inflammation, the pre- parations of mercury act as direct antiphlogistic agents, lessening the quantity ■of fibrine in the blood, and equalising the circulation. They arc of especial A’alue in promoting the absorption of exudation-matters, more especially of lymph, as we may see happening imder their influence in certain diseases of the eye. They appear to do this rather by loAvering the A'ascular action of the part, •and thus alloAAdng the absorption, which had been arrested during the persist- ence of the inflammation, to be canded on, than by any special influence exer- cised oA'er the efiPused material. Care, however, is required in the administra- tion of mercury. In indtable or cachectic constitutions it should not be gfr'en at all, or not Avithout great caution. It is best borne by strong constitutions, and in acute inflammation of the serous and fibrous tissues. Calomel, blue pill, and poAvder of merciuy AAdth chalk, are the preparations usually employed Avhen the mineral is given by the mouth. When it is ad- ministered endennically, the mercurial ointment is preferred ; and the use of the mineral is in general continued until the gums become spongy, and a red line is formed at their edge ; the patient experiencing a coppery taste in the mouth, and the breath becoming fetid. It is not necessary to induce profuse saliA'ation. It is especially the combination of calomel with, opium that produces the most beneficial ettects in the treatment of active singical inflammation. One or two grains of calomel, and half a gi-ain or a grain of opium, or fiA’c grains of Dover’s poAvder Avith three of mercury and chalk, every fourth or sixth horn, tranquillise the system and lessen vascular action in a reniai-kable manner, especially in acute inflammation affecting the joints, the eye, or the serous membranes. _ • • i i • Opium is not only of use in the way that has just been indicated, but is of essential scrA-icc in allaying the pain and irritability that ofteii accompany inflammation, especially in many inflammatory affections ot the^ bones an joints. In the foim of Dover’s powder, it is of especial value in this respect. In the treatment of acute inflammation, it is ot essential consequence t lat the patient should bo kept at rest, in an atmosphere of AA'ell-regulatcd tempera-