745 rARASITIG CYSTS. f . ,4inncres takino- place in extravasated blood (sec p. 18C). Idic most Xt CTstf Lulthi” Item this (»mB0 are fotmd in the ai-aahnoid ca«ty. Ilio ^ Itof Wood ia^ course of time becomes completely discoloured, and tans a tluu mcmbraue-like layer of tissue udiieh encloses a ^ small cpiantitj of serous fluid. There are excellent specimens of this conditio ill TTniversitv CollcR'e Llnseiim. . Cysts of Lw formation ocenr frequently m cmmcim A lumom-s and are then duo to softening, or luemon-liage, or to dilatation of cavities existing in the structure of the tumour. Thus in cysts are frequently found as the result of mucous softening of >nati x of tlie eartilage ; in myeloid sarcomata cysts are vei-y common probably due to haimorrhage into the structure of the tumour ; and m adenoid tumouis of the breast, the imnerlect acini characteristic of the growth may become dilated into cysts. These cysts will he described more fully with the varioiis tumouis in which they occur. . Cysts also occasionally come under the care of the Surgeon which owe t origin to the presence of v^parasitP. The most common of these is that known as the hydatid cyst. This is due to the presence of the scolex (or young) of the tmiiia echinococcus. The parasite in this stage of development is cystic in form, it never reaches its fully developed state in the human body ; the tmnia (or tape- worm), of which it is the scolex, being only known to exist in the dog and wolf. In the human body it is commonly found to present the following appearances. ]Most externally is a cyst-waU composed of the tissues of the part, altered by the pressme of the cyst, and indurated by fibroid growth. Within this is the waU of the cyst belonging to the parasite. This is often half an inch or more in thickness, and is composed of a semi-transparent, elastic ^ substance, not unlike the white of a hard boiled plover’s egg. It is beautifully laminated to the naked eye, and a still finer lamination is seen under the microscope. This cyst is spoken of as the acephcdocyst. Sometimes the cyst is single, but fi’ecpiently numerous secondary or daughter cysts are found in its interioi. The contents of the cyst consist of a clear fluid of very low specific gravity, usually not over 1007', and containing either no albumen, or only the faintest possible trace. The characteristic ttenia-heads, or, as they are called, echi- nococci, arc found either adherent to the cyst-wall, or free in the fluid. The head is small and rounded, and about in. in diameter, and pro’sided with four suckers and a ring of booklets. Frequently no perfect echinococci can be found, but the booklets, being indestructible, can usually be detected. Hydatid cysts are found in almost any part of the body. They occur’ most frequent in the liver, and in other organs in the following order of frequency :—lungs, muscles and subcutaneous tissue, kidneys, lower pelvis, nervous centres, bones, and heart. They are in rai’e cases found in the eye. The cyst-wall may undergo calcification, and the tumour cease to trouble the patient. Occasionally sup- piu’ation may occiu round the cyst, and the whole may be discharged. A few years ago I opened a very large abscess in the adductor region of a young woman’s thigh, and gave exit to nearly a pint of pus, in which dozens of small hydatid cysts about the size of gooseberries were floating. The diagnosis of these cysts when seated in the subcutaneous or muscular tissues cannot be made with certainty, e.xcept by withdrawing some of the fluid with the aspirator.