258 EFFECTS OF HEAT AND GOLD. of suppuration, and then succumb, he will usually die from exlumstion, hastened or accompanied by inflammation of the lungs or pleura. Truatjient.—The treatment of burns must have reference to the constitu- tional condition, as well as to the local injuiy. A vast variety of local appli- cations have been recommended by different Surgeons, such as flom, starch, cotton-wadding, treacle, white paint, gum, solution of India-rubljer, &c. ; the principle of all these applications is, however, the same, ^^z., the protection of the biu-nt simfacc fr-om the air. T shall here eontent myself Avith describing the method that is usually followed with much success at the XJui\'ersity College Hospital. The Constitutional Treatment is of the utmost consequence. We haA'e seen how death arises at A'arious periods after these accidents fr'om different causes, and Ave must modify our treatment accordingly. The first thing to be done after the infliction of a seA’ere biuii is to bring about reaction ; the patient is trembling in a state of extreme depression, suffering great pain, is cold and shivering, and may sink fr’om the shock unless properly supported. A full dose, varied according to the age, of liquor opii, should be gHen at once in some Avaim brandy-and-water, and repeated, if necessary, in the course of an horn- or two. When the body is extensively but superficially bm-nt, the immersion of the patient in a Avarm bath gWes instantaneous rehef, assuaging the pain and removing the depression. "When reaction has fairly set in, the patient’s secretions shoidd be kept fr’ee by the administration of an occasional mild piu’gative and salines. Should any inflammatory symptoms about the head, chest, or abdomen manifest themselves, it Avill be necessary to haA'e recoiu’se to treatment appropriate to their natme. I have certainly seen patients saved in these circumstances by the employment of blood-letting and the appheation of leeches. But, in the vast majority of instances, the Adsceral comphcatioiis are of a Ioav and congestive type. In such cases oiu‘ great reliance must be on stimulants. Ammonia and bark, brandy and Avine, require to be freely giA’eu, Avith a sufficiency of nomishment ; and the irritability of the nervous system must l^e soothed by the frequent adminis- tration of full doses of opium. At a later period, when the strength has become impaired by the profuseness of the discharges, this tonic and stimu- lating plan must be actively continued. Local Treatment.—The bimit clothes haAoug been removed, the patient should be laid upon a blanket, and, whatever the degree of the birni, be well covered Arith the finest wheaten floim by means of an ordinary dredger. The flom- should be laid on thickly, but imiformly and gi-adually ; it forms a soft and soothing application to the sin-face. If the cuticle have been abraded or vesicated, the flom will form a thick crust, by aclmixtme Awth the serimi dis- charged fr-om the broken smface. If the skin be chai-red, the discharge which Avill be speedily set up around the eschar, AviU make the flour adhere to the part, foiming, as it Avere, a coating- impei-A-ious to the air The crus s thus formed should not be disturbed imtil they become loosencu by the dischaiges. when they should be removed ; and the ulcerated surface that is exposed shou i be di-essed Avith water-di'essiug, red AA'ash, or lead ointment, accoic 111^ 0 le amount of irritation existing; the suppm-ating sore beings indeed, managed ordinaiy principles. In some cases, lint dipped in the “ Carron oil, composei