TUMOURS. 7C0 iminbcrlcss colls, in ovory way resembling the white corpuscles of the blood. 1 he stroma is composed of fibrous tissue containing a few oval nuclei scattered through It, especially where the bands cross each other. The stroma may, in some cases, be increased in amount and thicker than that normally found in lymphatic glands. The -^-essels are abundant and in close connection with the stroma. To the naked eye these tumours are white in colour, sometimes- stained by hemorrhages. They are soft and often brain-like, and, from the readiness Avith Avhich the cells are separated from the stroma, they may yield a milky juice on scraping. Thus they closely resemble cncephaloid cancer in appearance. They vary in size from a pin’s head to a foetal head. They are sometimes circiiuAscribed, as when they are situated in a lymphatic gland and have not extended beyond its capsule, but more usually they are diffuse. They occur at any age, but are most common in young adult life. They usually grow in connection with pre-existing lymphoid tissue, and, as this has been shomi to be Avidely disseminated through the body, they may occur at almost any part. Lymph adenomata are chiefly found in connection Avith the diseases kuoAviA as leucocythEemia, or that called “ cuUnie ” by Trousseau. The former of these is characterised by a great increase of white coi-puscles in the blood, Avith anaemia and general debility, and the latter by the presence of the tumours without these symptoms being present. For the symptoms of these diseases, the reader must refer to works on Medicine. The tumours form in the lymphatic glands, hver, spleen, kidneys and other organs, and they have been occasionally met AAuth in bones. They most commonly come under the observation of Surgeons Avhen situated in the lymj)hatic glands or bones. The glands of the neck and axilla are most frequently affected. They form painless swellings, usually Arm in consistence, slowly growing, and are at fii’st indistinguishable from simple chronic inflammatory enlargement. As they increase in size the glands fuse together, forming large nodular masses. They shoAV no tendency to soften or suppurate. After a time they may cease to grow. In the thorax such tnmoius may cause death by pressure, and the same has been said to occiu in the neck. Prom what has been above said, it is evident that the diagnosis of these growths from simj)le hypertrophy or chronic inflammation of lymphatic glands, is in the early stages a matter of great difficulty. The great number of the tumours, the absence of any source of local in-itation, and the fusing together of the enlarged glands, are im- portant signs in the later stages, accompanied by the symptoms of general AA'Cakness. If the glands cease groAAnng and the general health be fairly good, the tumours may be remoA'ed by operation. In other cases, constitutional treatment alone must be relied upon. A fcAV years ago I removed a tinnoim of this kind, as large as a flst, from the axilla of a woman aged 30. She had also a chain of enlarged glands in the neck. She suffered from some debility, but had no excess of white corpuscles in the blood, or enlargement of the spleen. P. Papilloma. Tumour resembling the Papillae of Skin or Mucous Membrane.—A papilla is a more or less pointed projection composed of areolar tissue, surrounding a capillary loop and co\‘ered by epithelium, AAdiich may consist of many layers, as in the skin, or ot only one as in the intes- tine. Lymphatic spaces or capillaries are also normally present in the areolar