•^92 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. ]. The Scirrhous Wart is usually of the natm-al eolour of the skin, but •sometimes of a reddish or dark-greyish hue, hard, and somewhat in-egular in shape. It may remain for a long time stationary, but at last ulcerates and spreads ra,pidly, giving rise to vast destruction of parts ; the ulcers formed by it presenting the characters of cancer, with a hard base, everted edges, and foul surface. 2. The Infiltrated Cancer of the Skin occurs in the form of a flat, dark, irregularly defined induration, which scabs over with dark, rugged, greyish- brown incrustations, having shooting pains in and around it, and, after re- maining stationary perhaps for years, runs into ulceration, and rapidly destroys the parts it affects. After ulceration has been set up, the patient’s life, accord- ing to Walshe, is seldom prolonged beyond two years. Emephaloid Cancer of the skin is of rare occmi’ence, but occasionally forms large fungating masses sprouting from, and solely connected with, this tissue. 3. Cancerous Ulcers of the Skin may arise from any local irritation ; or mi unhealthy and specific action may be set up in an old scar or ulcer, and cause it to assume a cancerous cha- racter (Fig. 328). These cancerous idcers may indeed occiu’ upon almost any part of the body ; I have seen them on the back, breast, fingers, hand, thigh, and sole of the foot. They are flat, grey, or sloughy-looking, often with large warty granulations and pro- tuberant masses, a good deal of indu- ration about them, and but httle dis- •charge. Their structm*e is usually that of scirrhus, but not infrequently melanotic growths and masses of melanoma are developed in them, and the neighbouring epidermis may be black in patches from melanotic deposits. The Treatment of cutaneous cancer consists in its excision, or in amputation of the limb affected. Its removal by excision, w'hether in the form of wart, crust, or ulcer, should be effected as soon as its true characters have declared themselves ; provided it be of such a size, and so situated, that it can be freely removed with a sufficient stratum of subjacent healthy parts, and a ivide border of siuTOunding skin. Should it be so situated that its excision through sm’rounding healthy tissue is not practicable, the hmb must be amputated, as was done in the case depicted in Fig. 328. In such circumstances the limb may be removed at no great distance above the disease ; it not being necessaiy, as in cases of cancer of the extremities where the bones are affected, to allow a joint to intervene between the seat of operation and the malignant erowth.