AMPUTATIOXS. 52 Uni\ crsifcy College cases, all died ol shock. The same catastrophe has happened ill every other case on record vdth which I am accpiaiiitcd. It is an operation that has been abandoned by military surgeons in cases of compound com- minuted fi'acture of the femur from bullet-wound in this situation ; ought it not to be equally discontinued by civil surgeons in those more hopeless cases of utter smash of the limb that occiu’ in their practice ? For my own part, I shall never again, except in children and young people, amputate in that situation for such injimies—hopeless alike, Avhether left or subjected to the knife ; but siu'ely better for the patient to be left to die in peace than to be again tortured by amputation, which all experience has shown to be useless. It is of importance to observe, in reference to these cases of death from shock after primary amputations, that the fatal result happens in a feiv hours, usually Avithin twenty-four, of the performance of the operation. Hence, although it may be disposed to by the previous condition of the patient, and the influence exercised upon his powers of endmance by the seA'erity of the injmy, the loss of blood, his age, &c.—for death from shock necessarily ocems more fr-equently mider similar conditions of injmy at advanced than at early periods of life—or even by season of year, yet it cannot in any Avay be affected by the conditions to which the patient is exposed subsequently to the performance of the opera- tion, so far at least as hospitals or other external influences are concerned. We must, therefore, look upon death from shock as a part of the general accident to which the patient has been exposed and of the injmy that he has sustamed, aggravated, doubtless, by the further depressing influence exercised by so serious an operation as an amputation possibly high up in one of the limhs. It is interesting to observe that season exercises an influence on the liabihty to death fr’om shock after primary amputations. According to Hewsou, of Phila- delphia, it is most fatal in AAunter. The reason is obAdous : the cold, to Avhich the sufferer has been exposed at the time of the occurrence of the accident for which he has to midergo an amputation, is an additional cause of Autal depression. If, therefore, Ave want to lessen the mortahty consequent on these opera- tions, the first point to look to is not to amputate needlessly in hopeless cases of smash of the thigh high up, in order to give “ a last chance ” to a patient whose Autal powers haA'e already been depressed to the loAA'cst ebb by a fearful mutilation. Such amputations, which sometimes consist in little more than the severance of a hmb still attached to the trmik by shreds of muscle, ought scarcely to find theii’ way into a statistical table professing to gfr e the general results of operations the majority of which are more deliberately performed, and Avith a better prospect of success. They ought, in point of fact, to consti- tute a class of cases apai-t, in Avhich the operation is sirbsidiary to the injury ' that has preceded and that leads to it; the more so, as they are frequently com- plicated with the internal injuries which are not detected until after the death of the patient. Shock, as has already been shoAAUi, exercises its influence chiefly in primary amprrtations ; far less in secondary ones ; and disappears entirely, as a cause of death, in pathological amputations. There, howcA-er, it is replaced by « exhaustion.” This condition stands in the same relation to amputations for disease that shock does to those that are practised for injury. Death by