159' snvus jUYJ) fistula. The difference between a sinns and a fistnla is this—that in the sinus there is only one external openint?, in the fistnla two or more. The track of a sinus is closed at one end, that of a fistula open at both. The orifice of a sinus or a fistula when situated in hard and condensed tissues, is often very small, depressed, and perhaps covered by a scab. In soft tissues it is conmionly large and widely open ; when conmumicating with bones there are usually soft florid gi'anulations obstructing it. Strudure.—A sinus or fistula consists of a naiTow channel, often long and ending, ha’S’ing an external orifice usually somewhat protuberant, and situated under or among loose florid gi-anulatious. The walls of this channel, which arc- always indimated, are lined by a low form of connective tissue resembling mucous membrane ; this, however, it is not, but simply consists of a layer of imperfectly foimed gi’anidations, exuding ichorous pus. If the orifice be- occluded, this pus will collect vnthin the sinus, and, distending its walls, recon- vert it into an abscess. In structure, therefore, a sinus or fistula may be said to be a long, naiTow, chronic abscess, with a permanent external aperture. The Treatment of a sinus or fistula has reference to its cause in the first instance; for, luitil the foreign body that keeps it open and maintains the- discharge has been removed, it will be useless to attempt its closure. After the removal of the obstacle to healing, we may endeavoim to procime obliteration of the sinus by one of three methods. 1. Pressure, by means of a roUer and gTaduated compress, so as to cause an agglutination of its opposite sides, is useful in those cases in which the sinus is. recent, without much suiTounding indination, and so situated, as upon the trunk, that pressure can easily be apphed. 2. A more healthy inflammation may often usefidly be excited in the sinus by iniedmj it from time to time with “red wash” or with tinctine of iodin7 by passing the thrcads of a seton or a drainage-tube thi'ough it, or by stimu- lating it by the occasional contact of a red-hot iron. This cjcdvanic cautery may often be employed with much success in the treatment of fistidm and sinuses to which other methods are not veiy aiiplicable. ’ 3. The last method consists in laymg open the sinus from end to end and then dressnig the wound so that it may heal fr-om the bottom; in this’way neighbouring muscles that have kept it open by their contractions, may also- be set at rest. The division of the sinus should be made with a probe-pointed ..stoury, introduced thicugh the external opening either by the aid of a Lector- 1 without such assistance. The operation should be done effectually, the sinus being usually follow^ed as far as is prudent, and laid completely open. , fistula maybe successfully and almost painlessly opened up by the slow-- acta, „ the „f valcanU I„dia!nKta lawn thiough and tied tightly, ulcerates in a few days through the soft mrf ^cvmg the track o the fistula. This plan is useful iif cases in^vhidl hml rhage IS apprehended or the patient dreads the knife.