876 VENEREAL DISEASES. mouth is also liable to attacks of inflammation, and this syphilitic stomaiiMs is a very marked characteristic of the disease. The disease manifests itself upon the cutaneous and mucous surfaces, some- times before or at birth, in other cases not until several weeks have elapsed. The most common period for the occim-ence of these signs is the third or fourth week. Ihe cutaneous eruption usually makes its appearance on the nates, the scrotum, the soles of the feet, and around the mouth ; hence, in examining a syi^hilitic child, these parts should always be looked at first. It presents itself in three difierent foi’ms : most frequently as flat tubercles, varying in size from a split pea to a fourpenny-piece, smooth, slightly elevated, and of a coppery or reddish-brown colour. These tubercles are often accompanied by cracks and fissm'es about the mouth and anus. Though commonly called squamous, they are not in reality scaly, but are always smooth and flat. Intermixed with these are brownish muculse or spots, differing in size, and variously figured. The vesicular or bullous eruption is not so common as those just described, yet I have frequently seen it in syphilitic children. It appears in the form of vesicles, about the size of a split pea, with a dusky coppery areola and base ; drying into browm scales or scabs, and commonly conjoined with the tubercular affection. These bullae are most frequently seen on the soles of the feet. When we consider the influence exercised by the syphibtic poison upon the skin, and its appendages the hair and nails, we should d priori have expected that the teeth, as a portion of the dermal skeleton, would participate! in the morbid action induced by it on the allied structures. The fact of their doing so does not, however, appear to have attracted the notice of any observer, imtil J. Hutchinson directed the attention of the profession to this very interesting subject, and pointed out the destructive and special influence exercised upon the teeth by secondary constitutional syphilis. This injurious influence mani- fests itself both in the temporary and in the permanent teeth ; but only with its specific and peculiar characteristics in the permanent set. It must not however, be supposed that in all cases of in- fantile syphihs the teeth are affected ; indeed, in many instances they are not, and it has been particularly pointed out by J. Hutchin- son that it is only when there have been attacks of syphihtic stomatitis, that we are to expect to meet with these changes in the teeth from their normal types. The temporary teeth of syphihtic infants are cut early, are of bad colom*, and hable to a crumbling decay (Fig. 319). The upper cen- tral incisors usually suffer early, and always first ; then the laterals become carious and ch'op out; and lastly, in some cases, though rarely, the canines wear away so as to present a tusk-hke appearance. In consequence of the eai’ly decay of the incisors, children are often edentulous, so far as these teeth are concerned, fr’om an early age, imtil the permanent ones are cut. The permanent teeth present the more marked characteristics of an inherited Fig. 319.—Syaliilitio Temiwmiy Teeth.