FRACTURES. 356 grasping the injured part and the corresponding portion of the healthy limb in each hand, and running the fingers lightly over the depressions and elevations, mai’king any difference that exists ; or, if greater accuracy be required, measiuing by means of a tape. In some cases the measurement must not be made between the trunk and the limb injured, or even from one extremity of the hmb to the other, as shortening of the whole member might depend on other causes than fracture, such as wasting, disease of joints, or dislocation ; when this is the case, the measiu’ement must be taken between different points of the bone injured, and compared mth a similar measurement of the sound limb. The displacement of a broken bone may be the direct result of the •\dolence which occasions the fractui’e, the fragments being driven ont of their position, as when a portion of the skuU is beaten in ; or it may result from the weight of the limb dragging downwards the lower fragment, as in a case of fractm-ed acromion. In some cases it is either occasioned or greatly increased by the direction of the fr’actiue. Thus, in several cases of broken tibia which have been under my care, the fine of fracture being obhque from above downwards, and from before backwards, I have found the upper end of the lower fr’agment project considerably forwards, sliding, as it were, along an inchned plane in the upper fragment; and in one of these cases, which I had an opportunity of dis- secting after amputation, the duection of the fracture, rather than muscular action, appeared to be the cause of displacement. In transverse fr’actiues there is always but shght displacement. Muscular contraction is, however, mthout donbt the most active cause of displacement : hence it has been found that, in paralysed lunbs which are fractm-ed, there is but little defoimity. The contraction of the muscles of the part approximating their pouits of attachment, owing to the support or resistance offered by the bone being removed, draws the most movable frag- ment out of its normal position. The other causes that have just been mentioned, tend greatly to favour this kind of displacement; but in some cases, as in fr-actiued patella, the displacement is entirely muscular, and in all fr-actm-es of the long bones it is chiefly due to muscular contraction. The Direction of the Displacement is principally influenced by the direc- tion of the fr-actiue, the position of the limb, and muscular action ; it may be angular, transverse, longitudinal, or rotatory. In the angular displacement there is an increase of the natmal ciuvatiue of the hmb, the concavity of the angle being on the side of the most powerful muscles ; thus, for example, in fractiue of the thigh, the angle projects on the anterior and outer side of the hmb, because the strongest mnscles, being- situated behind and to the inner side, tend, by their contraction, to approxi- mate the fragments on that aspect. This displacement principally occius in obhque and comminuted fractures. The transverse or lateral displacement occius when_ a bone is broken directly across, the fr-agments often hitching one against another, and so being, as it were, entangled together. In this case there is often but veiy httle deformity. In the longitudinal displacement there may be either shortening or elonga- tion of the hmb. When there is shortening, as most commonly happens in obhque fr-actures, it is dependent on muscultu contraction, the broken cn s