720 PYJiMIA. mation should be sufficiently severe to deprive the living wall of the vessel foi- a time at least ot its vital properties ; and this may occm’, as experiment has shown, at a point far short of actual death. It is possible, therefore, for phlebitis to gixe rise to the lormation of a thrombus, and afterwards to pass off, leaving the clot enclosed in a healthy vessel, under which circumstances it may undergo gradual absorption and perhaps partial organisation without doino- fiu-ther mischief. In the gTeat majority of cases of phlebitis it is, however, 510W believed that the inflammation of the wall of the vein is the result of the thrombus which has arisen from one of the causes here mentioned, and not the primary cause of the coagulation. Coagulation in a vein thus differs from the same occurrence in an artery, for the deposit of fibrine which takes place upon the roughened walls of a degenerated artery must be considered as having a protective influence, and as tending to lessen the danger of ruptme. The protrusion of foreign bodies, such as spicula of bone, or fr'agments of atheroma or fibrine, may give rise to the formation of a thrombus at any spot, and may be considered under the same head as embolism. c. Among changes in the blood itself, which lead to the formation of thrombi, those conditions abeady described under the head of leucocytosis necessarily occupy an important position, as tending not only to diminish the rapidity of the flow in consequence of the increased viscidity of the fluid, but to cause an increase in the amount of coagulable material or fibrine. It is doubtful whether this condition alone would suffice to produce coagulation in the vessels ; it must, however, be a powerful predisposing cause. It is probable, also, that certain septic conditions of the blood may tend to increase the liabihty to coagulation in the smaller vessels and capillaries in consequence of altered or arrested function of certain organs—lungs, hver, or kidneys. This is, however, probably the least important influence produced by septic conditions of the blood, which seem rather to lead to the softening and break- ing down of clots than to their formation. Changes.—A thi-ombus, having formed, usually imdergoes certain changes either of a destructive or a productive character, the results being classed as follows :— a. Changes in the clot itself leading to organisation, obsolescence, or soften- ing and breaking down; b. Changes in other parts due to the formation of the clot, viz., changes iu the walls of the vessel and the establishment of the collateral circulation ; or to the destruction of the clot. _ The wall of the vessel usually contracts upon the contained clot, which oradually shrinks, becomes denser, more flbriUated, and ultimately penetrated by vessels. It may subsequently undergo calcareous degeneration, leading to the formation of phleboliths, not unfrrequently foimd in venous plexuses. The changes which end in disintegration produce, however, the most serious results, leadincr to secondary htemorrhage in the case of the arteries, and to blood- poisoiflng or metastatic deposits in that of the veins. The causes vfrich lead to these changes are somewhat obseme; but they are gencraUy dependent upon bad hygienic sunmmdings and septic or epidemic influences. The healthy or- o-anisation and absorption of a clot cannot take place if the wall of the vessel enclosing it and tlie sm-roimding parts be in a state of inflammation and sup-