664 . MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. extremities that are met with Ihom pure debility, as after fevers, ol'ten appear to originate in this way. i. Strangulation.—A part is often pm-posely strangled by a Surgeon in operative procedures ; or its circulation may in this way be arrested as the result of certain accidents or diseased conditions. (See p. 187.) In cither case, the strangulation acts by stopping more or less completely the whole of the circulation through the part. If the strangulation be sufficiently severe, it may kill the tissues outright : for instance, when a naivus or a pile is tied, all flow of blood to or from the part is suddenly arrested, and its vitality is destroyed, the tissues that ha-s'e been strangled shrivelling and separating by ulceration along the line of ligatiu’c. When the strangulation is not so severe as this, great congestion ensues, consequent on the amomit of blood sent into the part being greater than can be removed by the veins, which are more affected by the constricting force than the arteries ; the part strangled becomes dark and congested, phlyctenae or vesicles arise on its sm’face, and effusion takes place into its tissue ; inflammation becomes at last superadded to the effects of the strangulation, and still more embarrasses the circulation of the part: and thus sloughing arises, from the conjoined action of the strangula- tion and the inflammatory exudation. AU this we find in the constricted gut of a strangulated hernia. 3. Inflammation.—Deferring for the present the consideration of certain specific forms of inflammatory disease that are Hable to be attended with gangrene, we have here to consider the death of parts, when it ocem’s as a sequence of ordinary inflammation. The production of gangvene by inflam- mation,—or rather, perhaps, by the congestion formmg part of it—is a less simple affair than its production in either of the ways which we have ah-eady described. Sir James Paget remarks that in certain forms of gangrene after inflammation, all the more simple ordinary causes of mortification may be involved along with others ; thus, “ 1. The inflammatory congestion may end in stagnation of the blood; and this, as an indirect cause of mortification, may lead to the death of the blood and that of the tissues which require hmug circulating blood for their support. 2. A degeneration of the proper textmes is a constant part of the inflammatory process ; and this degeneration may itself proceed to death, while it is concurrent with defects in the conditions of nutrition. 3. The exudation of fluid in some inflamed parts may so compress, and by the swelling so elongate the blood-vessels, as to diminish materially the influx of fi’esh blood, even when little of that affeady in the part is stagnant.” The intensity of the inflammation may be so great as to kill the part directly, however healthy its texture or soimd the constitution of the patient may be. More commonly, however, it is not so much the actual as the relatn e intensity of the inflammation that destroys the part: there being some debdity, local or constitutional, by which the resisting or preservative power is lessened. Paget says that the gangrene here seems to arise especially in persons nhose tissues have become degenerate in consequence of old age, of defective lood or of other materials of life, or through habitual intemperance ; the distui ance of local nutrition, which forms part of the inflammatory process, oreater than the enfeebled tissues can resist or overcome. It is remarkable D