359 UNION OF FRACTURED BONE. Fig. 138.—Commi- nuted Fi'acturc of the Humerus without dis- placement. that the humerus had sustained a comminuted fracture. The patient died of iiYfemia ; and after death the bone presented the appearance here given (Lug 138), a long splinter having been detached in a longitudinal direction, A B, ancl the shaft broken across at c. Here, then, was not only a compound, but a comminuted fracture, detected for the fu-st time a week after the infliction of the injury. It appeared probable that the blow of the ramrod had fractuied the bone longitudinally, detaching the large splintci, which had become impacted ; and that the shaft still held together by a naiTOW bridge of bone at C, which being broken across subsequently in moving the limb, now become heavy^ by inflarmnatory infiltration, led to the shortening of the limb and the lateral displacement of the fragments. Uniou' of Fractured Bone.—A fractured bone is ulti- mately united by being soldered together by the deposition of new bone around, within, and lastly between the broken fragments. In exceptional cases, as in fractures occiuTing Avithin the capsule of a joint, and in those of the patella and the olecranon, imion is effected by fibrous or filamentous tissue. In some instances that wfll hereafter be considered, owing to pecuhar local or constitutional circumstances, new bone is not formed, but the uniting medium is fibrous. The new bone that constitutes the bond of union is termed Callus. In many cases a larger quantity of this is temporarily deposited than is perma- nently left. This temporary formation of bone goes by the name of the provisional callus. It is formed partly external to the fractme, incasing the broken ends, and partly in the medullary canal, so as to include the fragments between layers of irew bone, and thus maintain them in contact. That which is permanently left, arrd which intervenes between the brokerr errds, is called the definitive callus. The process of urriorr varies somewhat hr simple arrd in compormd fractm’es. Union of Simple Fractures.—The prodrretion of callus has beerr strrdied Avith mrrch care by Haller, Duhamel, Bordenave and Hunter, by Drrpuytren, Breschet, and YiUerme, arrd more recently by Stanley, Paget, and Biflroth. From the obserwations of these pathologists, it would appear that the union of a broken bone takes place through the medium of plastic matter, deposited by a process of adhesive inflammation set up irr the injured borre itself, in its periosterrm, arrd in the rreiglrboming soft parts ; the lymph thrrs formed gj’adually undergoirrg developmerrt iirto osseous tissrre. The whole process, indeed, is strictly arralogous to that which takes place irr the ordirrary healirrg of a Avound by adhesiorr arrd the dcA'clopmerrt of the cicatricial tissrre. The broken fragments are at first movable, and surTOurrded by a considerable extra- vasation of blood. Irr the coru’se of ton or forudeen days, this has ordmarily undergone absorption to a considerable extent; the periosterrm arrd the medul- lary membrane in the vicinity of the fractruc, the tissrres arourrd it, arrd the l)roken bone itself, become A-ery vascular, and pom* out a quarrtity of lymph between and arorrnd the fr-agments, as well as withirr the medullary canal, so that the fractrrred ends arc enshcathed by a reddish gelatinous inass of a fusi-