702 EliYSIPELAS. purliaps [ may say in most instances, the disease is associated ’nhth more or less asthenia, and then the tonic and stimulating plan of treatment is attended by the best results. AVith the view of preventing sloughing of the muscles, a free crucial incision should be made through the scalp down to the bone ; the head, of course, having been shaved at the onset of the disease. Bagging of matter must be prevented by free counter-openings, and the application of pads and bandages, wherever it is likely to occur. However much the scalp may be undermined, or the bones of the cranium exposed, adhesion usually takes place, and the Autality of the parts is preserved. Phlegmonous Erysipelas of the Lips and Side of the Face and Neck, of a peculiarly fatal character, occasionally occurs in young people otherwise apparently healthy. It begins with a pimple, bleb, or vesicle on the lips or nose. This is occasionally attributed to the sting of some insect, or possibly to inoculation from a carrion-fly. It is hot, painful, and itching ; from this, as from a focus of mischief, the disease spreads rapidly, usually involving one side of the face only. The parts become brawny, red, and pm-- plish, greatly swollen, and painful. The constitutional disturbance is very great. Irritative fever, rapidly assuming a low form, sets in ; and death com- monly results in from forty-eight hours to six days, recovery rarely occurring. This disease has some resemblance to malignant pustule, but never runs into snppiu’ation or slongh. Hence I do not think that it can justly be considered a carbuncular inflammation of the face, under which term it has been described. Its whole coiu’se and the appearance of the inflamed part rather indicates its erysipelatous nature. Heath usually ensues in fr’om forty-eight horns to five or at most six days after invasion. The fatal result is preceded by rigors, and is evidently due to blood-poisoning of a rapid and aggi’avated character. The infection of the blood takes place through the large venous anastomoses of the side of the face, which are peculiarly patent, ocem-ring in the dense areolar and fibro-cellular strnctiu-es in which they ramify. Treatment has little effect m staying the progTess of this terrible malady. Dietetic stimiflants,^ strong sup- port, and tonics are indicated. Free incisions might be of service, but the situation affected prevents the possibility of their emidoyment. Diffuse Cellulitis of the SuhmaxiUary Region has been specially described by Bickersteth. After the exposure to heat and cold, gi-eat niflam- matoiT swelling rapidly sets in at the forepart of the neck and imder the angle of the jaw • these parts liecome diffusedly brawny ; unless relief be afforded, death will rapidly ensue -from suffocation, the disease spreading to the root of the epiglottis, and producing oedema glottidis. _ _ _ ThQ^Treatment consists in making a fi-ee incision in the mesial hue, ’on tho chin to the os hpidcs, through the infiltrated pai'ts from which a thin dmk senim, but no pus, will be seen to exude. The mcision luiist be oan-ied to a depth if two inches or more towards the base of the tongue, keeping eai-c- MlVto tte middle hue, until the whole of the bra,my infiltration has been Elytipelas of the Scrotum, the “ inflammatory todemn.” so well de*ribed by liton, is of frequent occurrence, as the result of wounds, ulcci-s, and othci Jnrees of irritation in this neighbourhood. The scrotum sivells to a ^ size being uniformly red, but with a semi-transparent glossy appeaiance, pittm„