FRACTURE OF RASE OF SKULL. 541 not positive as to fracture of tlie base of the skull through its petrous por- tion, or indeed of any intracranial injiuy whatever. Copious ha3morrhago from the oar to the extent of many ounces has been known to occur from a fracture of the anterior and inferior part of the meatus auditorius externu.^', in consequence of the condyle of the lower jaw being forcibly driven up against it, the jaw itself having been fractured. Hemorrhage into the Areolar Tissue of the Orbit and Eyelid, giving rise to extensive ecchymosis of the lid, possibly with protrusion of the eye-ball itself, often accompanies fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The ecchymosis that occurs in these cases arises fr’om the filtration of the blood fr-om the interior of the skull, through the fr-acture, into the loose areolar tissue adjacent to the injured bone. It differs remarkably in appearance from that resulting fr-om a direct blow upon the eyelid—fr-om a “ black eye.” In the latter case there is bruising- of the skin, and the ecchymosis is in a great measure cutaneous, of a reddish-purple colour. In the ecchymosis fr-om fracture, the hasmoirhage is entirely subcutaneous and subconjunctival: there is probably no bruising of the eyelid, but this is tense, greatly swollen, and of a pimple colour. The extravasation appears under the ocular conjunctiva in a very marked manner, which is rarely the case in an ordinary black eye, where the ecchymosis is superficial to the palpebral ligament, and shut off fr-om the subconjimctival areolar tissue. This haemorrhage may be venous or arterial. "When venous, it probably arises fr-om laceration of the cavenious sinus. When arterial, it may, as Hewett has shown, be the forerunner of a circumscribed traumatic aneiu-ism of the orbit, attended by pulsation, bruit, and projection of the eyeball, requiring the deligation of the common carotid for its ciu-e. Bleeding from the Hose or Mouth may of course arise fr-om any injiu-y of these parts without the skull being implicated ; yet in some cases of frac- ture of the skuU the hiemorrhage proceeds from the interior of the cranium, through a fissure in the roof of the nasal fosste ; it then indicates a fr-actiu-e through the ethmoid and sphenoid bones. In a patient of mine who died five weeks after an injury of the head, accompanied by bleeding from the nose, a fracture occasioned by contrecoup was fomid extending across one orbital plate of the fr-ontal bone, and separating its articulation with the ethmoid. In this case, the nature of the injury was suspected from the fact of the nose itself having been uninjured by the blow, although the hemorrhage fr-om it was very considerable and continuous ; for it is in the quantity and duration of this hemoiThage that its value as a diagnostic sign of fr-actm-e of the base of the skull consists. , Vomiting of Blood may occur in these cases, fr-om the blood having found its way through the fractured ethmoid or sphenoid down the nose and throuo-h the posterior nares into the pharynx and stomach. In these cases the vomited blood is dark, grumous, and mixed with the contents of the stomach. In some rare cases, the blood that issues from the nose and mouth passes into these cavities through the Eustachian tube. The petrous portion of the temporal bone is fractured, and the middle ear opened ; the tympanic membrane, how- ever, being unbroken, no bleeding fr-om the external ear ensues, but the blood escapes into the pharynx through the Eustachian tube. In some cases there may be a combination of these different signs. Thus, in a patient of mine at