COXSl'ITUTTONAL ^JFFECTS OF INJURY. 184 KEMOTE EEPEOTS OP INJURY. These may he consUtuHonal or locaJ. The Remote Constitutional Effects of injuries are of a very variecl cha- racter. In some cases, persons who have met with serious injury will be found to die suddenly, some mouths after apparent recoveiy. lu others, they gradually tall out of health, the nutrition of the body appearing to become impaired,- and auo3mia and a cachectic state supervening. In other instances, again, the timctions of the nervous system become distinbed ; coimilsive movements or paralytic symptoms of a slight but persistent character eventually develop themselves, and may become progressive, terminating in organic disease of the nervous centres. In these cases, the immediate influence exercised by the injmy on the neiwous system seems to pass off, while a peimanent impression is left. The patient never completely recovers from the effects of his injmy : he is never, to use the common expression, “ the same man again ; ” and, although his health may appear to improve from time to time, yet, on close inquiry and careful investigation, it Avill be found that there has been a continuous train of symptoms indicative of a disordered state of the nervous system. These remote constitutional effects, to which attention has been directed by Hodgkin and James, often do not manifest themselves for weeks or months after the infliction of the injmy. Some change appears to be induced in the condition of the blood, or in the action of the nervous system, that is incom- patible with health. Perhaps, as Hodgkin supposes, the part locally injined becomes incapable of proper nutritive action, and thus a morbid poison results, in consequence of some peculiar combination of the chemical elements of the part, by w'hich the w'hole system is influenced. Be this as it may, the fact remains certain, that constitutional disturbance, serious illness, or even sudden death, may supervene, as a result of a local injmy, a considerable time after its infliction. Remote Local Effects.—There can be little doubt that many structimal diseases owe their origin to long antecedent injimes. The nutrition of a j)art may be modifled to such an extent by a blow or wound inflicted upon it, as to occasion those alterations in the structure which constitute true organic disease. Thus W'e occasionally And, on death occiuTing some months after a severe injury, that extensive local mischief, usually of an inflammatoiy character, is disclosed, which has eHdently been going on in an insidious maimer from the time of the accident. In other cases again, a blow may give rise to severe and long-continued nem-algic pains in a part, or it may be the direct occasioning cause of struc- tural disease in bones, joints, or blood-vessels; and, lastly, it may be the origin of cancer, many cases of wdiich can be distinctly refen-ed to external violence.