LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 28' foreign body in the healing of Avounds Avill be discussed when avg come to conipiure the relatiA'C merits of acupressure and the ligature as a means ol arresting htemon-hage (p. But the cpiestion as to AA'hether, in em- ploying torsion, Ave completely clear the Avound of all foreign bodies and succeed in preventing the injurious interposition of a substance that is detrimental to the healing process, may be considered here. We must discuss this question according as torsion is applied to the larger or to the smaller arteries. When a large ai’tery, such as the femoral or brachial, is tAvisted for the arrest of ha3moiThage, it is di'aAAUi out of its sheath, the A'ascular connections AAuth Avhich ai’e disturbed or broken thi’ough; the end that is tAvisted is seA'erely pinched and bniiscd ; the internal and middle coats are broken through and turned back, Avhilst the external one is screAved into a tight tAvist beyond these ; and this, together AAuth the tinning back of the separated internal and middle coats, foims the obstacle to the escape of blood, the coagTdum forming above tliis point exactly as in the case of a hgatm-ed artery. Manec, in his classical AA'ork on the ligatine of the arteries, Avrote as folloAA'S. “ The extremity of the tAA'isted arteiy and the fragments of the internal and middle coats constitute a foreign body;—these parts of the vessel, beuig severely bruised by the torsion, maintain no connection A\ith the surroimding tissues, are unable to form any adhesion to them, and can only be removed by the conjoined action of suppination and absorption.” Manec further states as the result of his experiments that, Avhen he applied the hgature to the main arteiy of one limb and employed torsion upon the corresponding vessel of the other, he almost alAvays found that the Avomid cicatrised more easily AA^hen the artery Avas tied than Avhen it Avas tAA'isted. Thus it Avould aj)pear that the result of praetical experience and of experiment tend to shoAV that the tivisted end of a Large artery is m reahty a foreign body; and that in this respect torsion, A\hen applied to the principal arteries of a limb, presents no adA'antage over the ligatiu’e. But the case is undoubtedly different Avith the smaller arteries. Here the vessel need not be diaAAii out or detached fr'om smTounding parts ; and consequently there is not the same injury inflicted upon its free end.' The meie pinching and moderate tivisting of the bleeding point aaoU be sufiicient to anest the hiemon’hage from it. And in these cases, but in these only, torsion appears to me to possess a decided advantage over the ligatme. This is nioro particularly the case Avhen, as in plastic operations, direct union is of the first importance, and the presence of the knot and thread of the ligature AA'ould inff^ilily leave a suppm-ating track. lere IS one condition ot an artery that is an insuperable obstacle to the successful employment of torsion, viz., the calcification of its coats. In such cases, carbohsed catgut or thick silken ligatures can alone be used AA'ith safety. 7. Lioature is the means to AAliich Surgeons commonly have recourse for the arrest of hiemon-hage fr-om Avounded arteries vimn occasionally and partially employed by the later completely into disuse, giving Ai'ay to such barbarous and inefficient I