diffused traumatic aneurism. CHAPTER XV. TRAUMATIC ANEURISM AND ARTERIO-YENOUS WOUNDS. TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. Ne have hitherto discussed the treatruent of an injured artery having an open wound conununicating with it. It often happens, hoii evei, that the case is not so simple as has been described, but that, in addition to the wound in the vessel, there is subcutaneous extravasation of blood, with more or less pul- sation, tin-ill, and bruit, from the projection into it of the blood fr-om the wounded vessel. This extravasation constitutes a Traumatic Aneurism, and may ai’ise in three ways. 1. There may be an oblique or indirect punctiu’e into the arteiy, the blood frunished by which partly escapes from the w'ound, partly extravasates itself into the tissues around the vessel. 2. The pmictin-e in the integuments may have been closed by plaster or bandage ; and then no blood escaping externally, although the wound in the artery continues patent, the blood is forced out into the substance of the limb or part. 3. There may have been no external wound, but the artery may have been punctured or tom across subcutaneously, by the spicula of a fractiued bone, by a violent strain or twist of the limb, by the injury inflicted in a dislocation, or by the Surgeon in his efforts to reduce it. These traumatic aneurisms, in whatever way arising, are of two kinds, the Diffused and the Gircumscrihed. Diffused Teaumatic Aneurism.—This consists of an effusion of blood poured out by a wounded or ruptiued artery with which it communicates ; limited in extent by the pressure of surrounding parts, and partially coagulating in the meshes of the broken-down areolar tissue. It has no sac ; and its boundary, which is iU deflned, is composed partly of coagulum, and pai'tly of plastic material furnished by the tissues into which the blood is poured out, and has a constant tendency to extend under the pressiue of the fluid blood, which cemtinues to be projected into the centre of the tiunour. This form of traumatic aneurism is indicated by a subcutaneous, soft, and semi-fluctuating tmnour, often of very considerable size. At first the skin covering it is of its natural colour, but it gradually becomes bluish, and is thinned by the pressure to which it is subjected. If the wound in the vessel be rather large and free, there will be a distinct pulsation in the tumoiu syn- chronous wth the systole of the heart, accompanied by a thrilling, piuring, or jamng sensation, and often a distinct and loud bruit. In other cases, if the injured artery be small, or if the wound in it bo oblique, and of limited size, there may be no distinct pulsation or liruit ; the tumour being either indolent