ABBE ST OF ABTEBIAL 1FEM0B.BJ1AGE. 286 has been ligatured for supposed wound of the common femoral, wlieu in reality it was the external pudic that was injured. The rule of cutting down on the injured part of the artery applies to all cases in which the wound is still open, whatoA-er bo its condition. Howe\'er deep, inflamed, and sloughy the Avound ; hoAA'CA’er ill-eonditioned and infiltrated Avith pus or blood the neighbouring parts may be, it may be stated as a general rule, to Avhich, hoAA'OA’er, there are some exceptions, ospeeially in Avomids of the palmar arch, or of the secondary branches of the carotid, that there is no safety to the patient unless the artery be cut down upon and tied at the part injured. This must alAA'ays be done at any period after the receipt of the injury, so long as there is an external wound communicating AAuth the artery. An operation of this kind is often attended A\ith the greatest possible difficulty, not only OAAung to the hasmorrhage that usually accompanies it and obscures the parts, but also in consequence of the inflamed, infiltrated, and sloughy conditiou of the tissues in the wound. In order to moderate the heemorrhage, the pressure of an assistant’s finger on the artery high up in the limb must not be trusted to ; but a tourniquet should be applied so as completely to arrest the circulation through the limb, and thus to facilitate the discoA'ery and exposine of the injured vessel, the Avound being dry. The application of an elastic bandage, such as that recommended by Esmarch, may be used Avith adA'antage to exsanguinate a limb, in which an artery has been Avouuded. By means of this excellent device the diAdded A'essel may be safely cut doAA'ii upon and dissected out as readily as in the dead body. A large probe should then be passed to the bottom of the woimd ; and, taking this as the centre, a free incision should be made in such a direction as may best lay open the cavity Avith the least injiny to the muscles and other soft parts. After timiing out any coagula contained in the wound, and clearing it as Avell as j)ossible, the injured A’essel must be sought for. The situation of this may sometimes be ascertained at once by the gaping of the cut in its coats. In many cases, hoAveA’er, it is necessary to relax the pressine upon the artery, so as to alloAA’ a jet of blood to escape, and thus indicate the position of the apertine. The ligature may then be applied by passing an aneinism-needle under the A’essel, if it be pai’tially divided ; or, if it be completely cut across, by draAving forwards the end and ligatining it, as in an open wound. In doing this, care must be taken that the hgature be really applied to the vessel, and that a portion of the sheath infiltrated AA’ith blood,^ or thickened by adherent coagulum, be not mistaken for the artery. In applying the ligature under the circumstances here indicated, A’iz., in a wound that is sloughy and suppurating, the tissues vdll necessarily in a gi-eat degi-ee haA’c lost their cohesion and firmness ; and although the arterial tissue resists the disor- ganising influence of low inflammatory action much longer than areolar or muscular tissue, yet it will also have become softened and less resistant. Hence the vessel must be isolated Avith gentleness and care, and the ligature very care- fully tied—no undue force being used. The ligature a\u11 usually separate m such cases sevml days before the ordinary time. The incisions dorm to the wounded artery should generally be made on the side of Uie imnnd m ther ossci, and through the wound in the soft tissues covering it. Guthrie, hoAAeACi, advises that, in those cases in which the AVOund passes indirectly o the prin- cipal ai’tcry fr’om the back.or outside of the limb, the Surgeon need not follow