736 TUMOURS. all pathologists ; the wandering Avhite corpuscles from the blood being con- sideiod by many to be the only source of new cellular growth, while others believe that although the new gTowth arises chiefly from this source, yet the j)re-existing cellular elemeuts of the part are not wholly inactive. The following tissues may be considered as belonging to this type, the pathological deviations from which must be viewed iii the same light; the connective or areolar, the white fibrous, and the yellow elastic tissues in all parts of the body, whether entering into the formation of organs, or existing as separate structures. The cartilaginous and osseous tissues represent two important modifications, but exhibit occasionally a tendency to return to the primary form as described above. Mucous tissue must also be included under the same type. Its most perfect analogue is found in the MTiartonian jelly of the umbilical cord, but it is also represented in the adult by the vitreous humour of the eye. The simplest fomr of embryonic tissue is composed of small romid cells about the size of white blood-corpuscles, and possessing the same amoeboid movements, connected with each other by a small quantity of homogeneous intercellular substance. The cell consists merely of a small mass of protoplasm with a nucleus in the centre, which is usually somewhat difficult to distinguish. The vessels m such tissue are abundant, and extremely thin-walled, like those of granulations. The modifications observable in this tissue are seeu both in the cells and in the intercellular substance. The cells may be of great size, almost resembling epithelial cells ; they may be spindle-shaped, oval, or stellate. The intercellular substance may be small in quantity and amorphous, or its quantity may be increased without apparent change in its nature. The most common modification is a development of fibrous tissue between the cells. It must 1)6 remembered, however, that, in tumours classified under the heading sarcomata, with very rare exceptions the intercellular substance, be it homo- geneous or fibrous, extends between the individual cells, in this differing from the stroma in carcinomata, which forms alveolar spaces in which the cells are grouped. In fact, it is one of the essential characters of the epithehal type of tissues, that it presents a simple cell-structnre without any intercellular sub- stance. The cells of epithelium present a very great variety in their form and size, and though usually possessing but one nucleus, may sometimes contain several nuclei, as in the transitional epithelium from the bladder. It is at the present time a disputed question whether cells of an epithelial type can ever develope except in connection with pre-existing epithelium, after the first separation of the three layers of the embryo. If it be true that they cannot, then primary carcinoma can only arise in connection with the skin, mucous membranes, and secreting glands. The flat cells lining the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities are not now looked upon as epithehum, but are distinguished by the name of endothehum or epithelioid cells. They are different in character and origin fr-om epithelium, and can undoubtedly be developed in any part of the body. The characters presented by the several groups of tumours will now be considered. I.—CYSTIC TUMOURS. Cystic Tumours may be classified according to their contents, or according