ARREST OF ARTERIAL IIJEMORRIIAGE. 3°4 ligature being tied too loosely, or witli the inclusion of a portion of nerve, vein, or muscle ; so also the accidental puncture of the artery above the point to Avhich the ligatui’e is applied, Ihe rush 0/ Ijlood through a neiglibouring trunh or collateral branch imme- diately above the ligature has been considered as likely to interfere Avith the formation of the internal plug ; but too much importance should not be attached to this, for Porter has tied the carotid successftiUy within one-eighth of an inch of the brachio-cephalic artery; Bellingham has ligatm-ed the external iliac close to its origin; and Aston Key, the subclavian in the vicinity of a large branch, ndthout secondaryhsemoiThage ensuing. Butalthough the ligatme maybe safely applied near’ a branch on its proximal side, I think that the preseirce of a colla- teral branch in close proximity to the distal side of the ligature—more especially if it be one that serves to carry on the anastomosing circulation—Avill be found to haA^e a decided tendency to prevent the occlusion of the distal end of the artery, and thus to favour the occun-ence of secondary haemorrhage. The tvound of a collateral branch immediately above the hgatiu'e, though it does not perhaps give rise to troublesome hEemorrhage at the time, will, as I have seen, cause fmious bleeding as the collateral circulation becomes established. Irritability of the arterial system is very apt to dispose to the occiuTence of secondary hEemorrhage. There is a peculiar condition of the arterial system indicated by the ordinary evidences of a sanguine temperament—^by a fall- ] sized and forcible pulsation of the arteries, in which, when the vessel is exposed, I it appears hard, thick-walled, and muscular, beats forcibly and almost uncon- ; troUably, in which secondary hEemorrhage is very apt to occur. In these cases ! the propulsive power of the heart would seem to overcome all those obstacles in ) the way of internal clot, plastic deposit, and contraction of the vessel on which the occlusion of its cahbre depends ; and on the separation of the ligatm’e recurrent hEemon-hage mil take place in the most vehement and uncontrollable maimer. A diseased state of ihe coats of the artery at the point deligated or compressed wiU occasion rapid sloughing and unhealthy ulceration of the vessel; those plastic changes which are necessary for its occlusion not going on within it. It has happened that fatal secondary hEemorrhage has ocemred from a large artery, such as the femoral, in consequence of a small atheromatous or calcareous patch having gnnn way inmiediately aboAn the hgature, a day or two after its application, _ • i? i ^ Constitutional Causes.—These act by preventing the formation of a clot within, and the deposit of plastic matter Avithout, the artery; or by causing their absorption in a few days, if they have been formed. (Figs. 121 and 122.) Amongst the most common of these causes are those unhealthy states of the system in which diffused erysipelatous inflammation sets in, Avhich is incom- patible Avith plastic effiision. In these cases either no internal coagulum at all is formed, or it is weak, imperfect, and unable to resist the impulse oi the blood ; speedily becoming absorbed or disintegrated, and washed away.^ There EU-c also certain states of the blood in which from disease, as albiuuniuria, it has lost its plasticity, and cannot yield the products of adhesion Secondary hEemorrhage is specially apt to occiu in cases of pyccima, proAided that disease