142 SUPPUllATlON AND ABSCESS. ^ PiOGENESis, or the Iorjiatiox oe Pus, is an interesting study. The older oni'geons belie\ed that this fluid was formed by the Ijreaking up or disintegra- tion of the solid tissues, or that it was the result of their liquefaction or saponi- fication by the fluid products of inflammation. Hewson and Hunter exposed the fallacy of these opinions; and modern pathologists look upon pus as a ■direct product of inflammation. When siqjpm’ation takes place, there is indeed a brealcing up of the tissues ; but it is not their mere debris which constitutes pus. The close resemblance between the white blood-corpuscles and those of pus was pointed out as long ago as 1842, by Dr. W. Addison, and subsequently by Dr. A. Waller, but their observations seem to have been almost forgotten until about eight years ago, since Avhich time an interesting investigation has been carried on by several observers, as to the source of the pus-corpuscles, and the manner in which their numbers become increased. The researches on this point have an intimate coimection uith those to w'hich reference was made in the previous chapter, on the behaviom- of the white corpuscles of the blood in inflammation. The mode of fomiation of pus has been examined by Cohnheim, Hoffinami, and Von Recklinghausen, in the cornea of the frog—a non-vascular tissue. On injm-ing the cornea, there follows in two or three days a yellomsh opacity, due to pus-corpuscles, and commencing always, according to Cohnheim, at the periphery, even Avhen the lesion is central. The pus, it is hence inferred, ■cannot have been formed in the cornea, but must hax'e come from Avithout; but from AA'hat soiuce ? It had been shoAAii that finelj^ divided colomlng matter, when brought into contact AAoth cells, such as those of pus, is taken up and retained by them. Accordingly Cohnheim introduced anihne blue, and Hoffinann and Von Recklinghausen cimaabar, into the blood ; and, on after- wards examining the pus, foimd it colom-ed by these substances, AA'hich had been taken up by its corpuscles. On introducing the same substances into the anterior chamber of the eye, and the injiucd cornea, no such effect Avas produced. Hence the inference Avas, that at least many of the pus-cells come fr’om the blood. It is still a debated question, whether aU, or eA'en the majority, of the pus- corpuscles ai’e to be accounted for by migration of white cells or leucocytes, as they have been called, thi’ough the AA'alls of the blood-vessels. That this is the somce of most of them, Avas the vieAv held by Cohnlieim, Avho regarded the blood-forming organs—the spleen and lymphatic glands—as their nlthnate source. Others, hoAACver, including Billroth, Hoflmaim, and Von Reckling- hausen, consider that a large proportion of the pus-cells must be formed in the tissues outside the Acssels, especially in the corpuscles of the connective tissue. This vieAV is that Avhich appears to be most generally received. Bm-don Sanderson remai'ks that “ in every limited inflanmiation of the subcutaneous tissue, and in the neighboiu’hood ot every subcutaneous abscess, a region is foimd outside of the focus of suppuration, in Avhich the connective tissue corpuscles present alterations Avhich are so distinct, that it is impossible for any one Avho is com’ei’sant Avith them to doubt that they signify that the tissue is germinating.” Kelation of Suppuration to other Changes in the Tissues, The