8yo VENEUEiiL EI8EASES. Iliiiiiilton of Dublin has described another form of syphilitic sarcocele, under the term, tubercular sy|)hilitic sarcocele.” In this the testis is enlarged to three oi four times its natural bulk, of an irregular shape, presenting an uneven, hard, and knotty mass ; it is neither painful nor tender, but incon- venient from its weight, causing pains in the loins and cord. Both testes are usually affected, but one is worse than the other ; and when the disorganisa- tion is gi-eat, Hamilton states that all sexual desire is lost, and that neither erections nor emissions take place ; both, however, returning as the treatment effects the restoration of the organ to its normal condition. In these cases suppiu’ation not unfrequently takes place, followed by the discharge of thin pus, the formation of fistulous openings, and occasionally the protrusion of a fungus. This form of sarcocele ocem-s in persons of a broken and cachectic constitution, who are suffering severely from the more advanced and inveterate forms of tertiary syphilis, especially of the bones and throat. In the simple syphilitic sarcocele, the enlargement of the testis is principally due to the deposit of semitransparent white or yellow lymph, in an uniform manner, throughout the substance of the organ external to the tubuli. In the tubercular syphilitic sarcocele, Hamilton states that tubercles of a yellow colour, and varying in size from a split pea to a chestnut, or even larger, are found in the substance of the organ ; these, softening, give rise to suppuration in and around them, and thus to the ultimate disorganisation of the testis, which becomes converted into a hard irregular fibro-ceUular mass, in which cretaceous matter is occasionally deposited. In the Treatment of the simple form of sarcocele, a full mercurial coin-se is generally necessary ; the perchloride, in doses of the twelfth or eighth of a grain three times a day, is the best preparation. This should be continued for at least six or eight Aveeks, or until hardness disappears. Any hydrocele that exists should be tapped, and the fluid drawn off by means of a small trochar and cannula before the treatment is commenced. After the mercury has been discontinued, the remaining SAA'eUing of the testis may be remoA’ed by the internal administration of iodide of potassium in five-grain doses, twice or thrice daily, with frictions with the iodide of lead ointment. In these cases, care should be taken not to irritate the scrotum with very stimulating apphea- tions, as the skin is tender, and readily becomes excoriated; ordinary strapping is of very little use, but in some cases I have found strapping with the plaster of ammoniacum and mercury, diluted with equal parts of belladonna plaste? of serA'ice. If suppuration occur, and a fungus protrude, the same treatment must be adopted as Avill be described in speaking of the strumous testicle. 9. Syphilitic Ovaritis is a disease that I believe I have on several occa- sions met Avith. The history of the cases has been uniformly as follows: a long antecedent attack of syphilis ; various constitutional symptoms rmmmg thi'ough secondary and tertiary stages ; inflammatory congestion of one ovary, as determined by abdominal and rectal exploration; eventual cure by means of leeching and the perchloride of mercury and bark ; in fact, a con ition o things closely resembling Avhat occurs in syphilitic sarcocele. ^ 10 Visceral Sjrphilis.—Our knoAvledge of the syphilitic diseases of the internal organs is of modern origin, and still someAvhat imperfect. “ ^hkceral Syphihs ” Avas not only unknoAvn to, but imsiispected by, so acute an observei