SYMPT02IS OF CHRONIC 1NFLA2IMATI0N. 135 elasticity of the subcutaneous tissue arc impaired, and the consequence, as regards the coarser palpable and visible consequences, is that the tissue becomes more swollen and fatty, and less moveable than normal. This is the first stsige of every chronic inflammation.” Phenomena.—Eegarding the modifications of colour, size, sensation, fimc- tion and temperatm-e, described as attendant on acute inflammation, it is to be obsen^ed that they are also present in chronic inflammation; differing, how- ever, in origin and in degxee, and often in order and combination. The colour is not always changed, unless the part affected be very superficial; and the redness is rather of the dull than of the bright hue, not depending on the rapid transmission of an increased quantity of bright blood, but rather on a congestive condition. The affected tissue may become pennanently discoloured, probably by the escape of large numbers of red blood-corpuscles thi-ough the Avails of the A^essels, and the retention of their coloiu’ing matter after the removal of the more fluid parts of the effusion. The pain is less frequently of the spontoneously acute character, but partakes more often of the character of tenderness, being elicited only by pressime : sometimes, however, the pain is very seA'cre. The increase of femperatw'e is but slight. Swelling is an early and most important sign in chronic inflammation. It depends less on the enlargement of the vessels than on the effusion which takes place, and the nutritive changes which may be said to constitute the distinctiA’e characteristic of the disease. The effused material consists partly of seriun and partly of plastic matter. The fonner may become absorbed ; or, in the case of serous membranes, it may remain distending the cavities which they hne, as in the joints. The plastic matter is more hablo to remain, and to lead to hypertrophy, or thickening and induration of the part. Like acute inflammation, the chronic form of the disease may be attended with siqypuratim. This Avill be described in the next chapter. (Pages 140 —144.) In chrome inflainmation of mucous or serous membranes, there may be an increase Avith modification of the secretions ; producing, in the case of the mucous membranes, the condition knowm as chronic catarrh. Constitutional Symptoms.—These are less marked in chronic than in acute mflammation ; but if the disease assume an acute chai-acter, one of the forms of inflammatoiy fever already described may appear. The patient’s health, hOAvever, is m most cases impaired ; being, in many instances, affected with some constitutional taint Avhich has had its influence in producing or main- mmng the chronic character of the inflammation. If an important organ be ^ chronic inflammation, though affecting parts not essential to 1 c, e very extensiAe, the pulse will be found to be habitually above the normal standard, and exacerbations of fever, often of a distinctly periodic character, develop themseh-es. pciiouio in-^Lor’AYhSrif ^ presence of some local imtat.on, Avhich, if temporary, Avould produce acute inflammation only, but OTtaiiiimlof chror-'fl M Uie 8crofulons; indeed, very common in .ecrofnlouTtl!j2eto!“’’ ™