643 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Wounds that Penetrate the Cavity of the Abdomen are of especial interest, on account of the frequency with which they are complicated with peritonitis, and with injury of the A'iscera. Tlicy may, for practical purposes, be divided into 1, those that Penetrate the Peritoneal Sac, without wounding or causing the protrusion of any of the contained organs ; and 2, those that are complicated with Protrusion or AVound of some of the Viscera. 1. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen, without Visceral Pro- trusion or Injury, are often somewhat difficult to distinguish from simple wounds of the abdominal wall, though the escape of a small quantity of reddish serum may reveal the nature of the accident. In these cases the Sui'geon should be careful not to push his examination too far, by probing or otherudse ex- ploring the wound, lest he really perforate the peritoneum which was previously intact. The cavity of the peritoneum has often been perforated from front to back by bullet-wounds or sword-thrusts, without there being any sign of visceral injury. In the absence of peritonitis or other signs of mischief, the wound must be treated as a simple one of the abdominal wall, and any com- plication that may occur must be met in the way that will immediately be described. 2. In a Penetrating Wound with. Protrusion or Injury of the Viscera, the risk is necessarily greatly increased; here the chief danger is from peritonitis, induced either by the wound, by the extravasation of the intestinal contents into the peritoneal cavity, or by the accumulation of blood in it. It but seldom happens that death results from hEemorrhage in these cases, though this may, of course, occur if any of the larger vessels be injured. Protrusion of uninjured intestine, mesentery, or omentum may take place through the wound in the abdominal wall. This protruded mass is always very large in comparison with the aperture from which it escapes, the sides of which, being overlap by it, constrict it rather tightly, so as to form a distinct neck to the protrusion. If left unreduced, the mass speedily loses its polish and bnght colour, becoming dull and livid fi-om congestion ; it then inflames, and soon becomes gangrenous from the pressime exercised upon it by the sides of the aperture through which it has passed. In many cases the protruded intestine is tvounded. The existence of this forther injiuywill readily be ascertained by the escape of flatus, or of the more fluid contents of the gut. ^ The characters of the wound vary, as Travers has pointed out, according to its size. If it be a mere punctime, or even an incision two or three lines in length, eversion or prolapsus of the mucous membrane VI take place, so as to close it sufficiently to prevent the escape of the con- n s. f the aperture be above four lines in length, this plugging of it by everted raucous membrane cannot take place, and then the contents of the )owe are more freely discharged ,• but, even in these circumstances, there will ne a tendency to the protrusion of the membrane, which forms a kind of lin over the edge of the cut. 1 notp-otrude, but remains ivitbui the peritoneal exhib, s the same phenomena. In these cases, however, there is the p1ri“r- f conUrinro the ti.nt-r. ' ^^ticnasatiou, unquestionably one of the greatest dauo’or'’ aat can oecnr ,n wounds of the abdomen, inasmuohasby itshiit^tquaS T T 2