COMP Lie A TED FRA C TV REE 379 life is the main point, and that coiu’sc is the proper one which offers the oTcatest prospect of effecting this, A wise conservatism is much to be ap- planded, but decision in determining the expediency of amputation is equally characteristic of a good Siugeon. In coming to a conclusion on a question of such A'ital moment as this, he must, consider not only the nature and extent of the fractiue, but the ago, constitution, and habits of the patient; and though he may be guided by those general rules Avhich liaA^e already been laid down at pp. and 232, Avhen treating of amputation in contused Avounds and in gun-shot injiuios, yet he Avill often shoAV more Avisdom and a greater amount of skill, in departing from the strict letter of surgical hiAV, and in making a successful effort to saA’O a limb, Avhich, by adherence to surgical precepts, Avould be condemned ; or in attempting to preseiwe the patient’s life, by sacrificing a limb that is not injured to a degree that Avould usually be considered to justify amputation. 1. Those fructiues must be looked uj)on as most luifavoiuable in Avhich the Avouud is the consequence of the A'iolence that breaks the bone, and, in Avhich there is much. Laceration of, and Extravasation into, the Soft Parts ; more particularly if the integuments be stripped off, portions of the muscular belhes protrude, and the planes of areolar tissue betAA'eeu the great muscles of the limb be torn up and infiltrated with blood. lujiuies of this description occmrmg in the lower extremity always require amputation. The danger to the patient increases not only in proportion to the amoiuit of comminution of the bones and of injury to the soft parts, but almost in the exact ratio of the proximity of the injury to the trunk. Thus, amputation of the thigh for bad compound fracture of the leg, though a A^ery serious operation, is sufficiently successful; but Avhen the femur itself is badly fractured and amputation of the thigh high up is required, recovery can indeed but seldom be expected. A bad compoimd fr'actine of the thigh, high up, may almost be looked upon as a fatal accident {vide pp. 105 and 233). In the arm, such accidents are not so serious, and the member may be sa\’ed, unless the bones be greatly conuninuted. 2. The comiAlicatiou of a compound fractine with the Wound of a Large Joint, more especially if there be crushing or splintering of the bones Avhich enter into its formation, AArth extensiA^e laceration of the soft parts, is one of the most serious injuries that can be inflicted on a hmb ; and, when occiuriug in the loAver extremity of the adult, is a case for amputation—unless it be the hip-joint that is damaged, when there Avill generally be so much injury of the pehic boires and their contained viscera, as to preclude the performance of any operation. In children recoA'ery may be effected in cases that Avould be hopeless ui t e adult, and luider antiseptics many limbs, in Ardiich the joints are opened >y lactuie of contiguous bones, ai’e saved that Arme formerly doomed to the ' n c. I^hen the elboAv or the shoulder-joint is the seat of compound com- minuted fracture, Avith extensive injury of the soft parts, and possibly laceration 0 contiguous nerves or largo blood-A'essels, the case is one for immediate ampu- Mion'. But, if the injury bo limited to the boues, tlie soft parts boino- in a favourable state, resection of the articulation may advantageously be practised, -this operation is usually a somoAvhat irregular proceeding, being conducted according to the extent of the wound, and consisting rather in picking out the n Pi'ojecfcing and sharp-pointed ia.^ment&, than in methodical excision.