ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 1Z1 to their anatomical cliaracters and mode of development. The following is an example of the former method. ]. Dermoid Cysts, presenting three varieties— Those containing Ejndermis. R Those containing True Skin, Hair, and Glands, r. Those containing Cartilage, Bone, and Teeth. 2. Serous Cysts, arising in four different ways— a. By Dilatation of Sacs, CaHties, or Canals, including Blood-Yessels. k By Accumulation of Fluid in the Meshes of Areolar Tissue. c. Jly Changes in Hjemorrhagic Effusions. il. By Changes in the Products of Inflammation. 8. Colloid Cysts, resulting from— a. Colloid Degeneration of Pre-existing Cells. k Colloid Degeneration of Newly formed Cells. dhe second method will, however, be adopted here as being the more simple and more clinically useful. Cystic tumoiu’s are di-vdded into two great classes :— 1. Those that are dependent upon the gradual Accimmlation of a Secretion m a naturally existing Duct or Cyst, with dilatation and hypertrophy of its waUs. ^ 2. Those that residt from the New Formation of a closed Cyst in the areolar tissue of the part, and the distension of it by the secretion fr'om its lining membrane. 1. Encysted Tumours, arising from Simple Distension and Gradual Hypertrophy of the Walls of a Duct or Cyst, are met with in three fomis : (a) Encysted tumours of the skin and subjacent areolar tissue occiu’- ring in various parts of the body, and dependent on the closm-e of the excre- toiy ducts of the sebaceous glands : (k) Tumours formed by the accumu- lation of secretions in, and the closure and dilatation of, the ducts of other secreting glands and organs, as in the sublingual or the mammary gland; (c) Those foimed by the retention and modification of the secretions in cysts Avithout excretory ducts, as in the bursaa. When these tumours arise in con- nection with ducts or cavities naturally lined with epithelium, they also possess «T. similar lining, but if they spring fr'om closed sacs such as bursaa, which are lined merely with a flattened en- dothelium, we find no true epitheliimi in the cyst. («) Encysted Tumonrs, produced ty the Obstruction of the Ek- 3 B ^ Atheromatous Cyst (ISSdiam ). ami “'W^flcial cells swolleih reeling off. bb. ibrous ciiiisule. c. Surrounding couuectivc tisane.