INJURY OF THE TONGUE, PALATE, AND PlIARYNN. 603 the BjiniJathetic and ciliary nerves, that we must refer these various morbid phenomena resulting from its irritation. In what way this in-itation of the fr-ontal nerve exercises an injurious influence is doubtful, but the fact, as the result of clinical observation, remains certain, that in some cases it is the primary and determining cause of loss of vision. ■\IouTH.—'Wounds of the mouth are seldom met with, except as the result of gun-shot violence. The amount of injury done to the soft structures, however great, is usually only secondary to the mischief that results to the brain, spinal cord, jaws, and skull, and must of com-se be treated on the ordinary principles of treatment of gun-shot and lacerated wounds. Toxgue.—Wounds of the tongue usually occur fi-om its tip or sides being- caught between the teeth during an epileptic fit. They have been known to be inflicted by insane patients, in attempts to excise or to bite off this organ. Should the htemon-hage be free, the application of a ligature, or even of. the actual cautery, may be needed. These wounds generally assume a sloughy ajDpearance for a few days ; they then clean up, and granulate healthily. It is useless to bring the edges together by sutures, which readily cut out. If, however, a large portion of the tip be nearly detached, it must be supported in this way; but the threads should be thick and passed deeply. Pieces of tobacco-pipe are occasionally di'iven into and broken off in the substance of the tongue, and they either give rise to very free heemorrhage, or the wound may close and heal over the foreign body, the existence of which may not be known to the patient. In a case of this kind, where a man complained of much pain and stiffness in the tongue, with difficulty in deglutition, I found on examination, a hard swelling towards the base of the organ; and ou cutting down upon this extracted three inches of the stem of a tobacco-pipe, which, had been lodged there for several months. The Palate and the Pharynx are sometimes lacerated by gun-shot injiu’ies of the mouth: or the wound may result from something that the patient happens to have between his lips being di-iven forcibly backwai-ds into his mouth. Thus, a tobacco-pipe may, by a blow on the face, be di-iven deeply into the substance of the tongue, or perhaps into the pharynx, v^ouuding and lodging behind the arches of the palate, breaking off short; the fi-agment that is left in giving rise to abscess, to ulceration of the vessels, and perhaps to fatal secondary hjemorrhage. In a case that was under my care some time ago, the soft palate was nearly detached fr’om the palatal bones by a deep transverse wound, caused by the end of a spoon being forcibly driven into the mouth ; good union took place e^-entually, the part having been stitched together by a few points of suture.