775 CANCER OR CARCINOMA. Fi"- 303.—llixed liound and Spindle- oelled Sarcoma, into wliich Hiciiior- rliage lias taken place (ISSdiani.) a. Recent Ha?,morrluige. h. Blood-corpuscles becoming gran- ular. .lurk mii-Dle colom-. It had previously to admission been treated, firet by the a seL, „ud secoUp by baiag laid open and danssod from the bottom, whieh latter treatment had been re- peated twice. On both occasions it was re- ported that nothing but blood escaped. I laid the tumour freely open, and turned out a laigc quantity of what was apparently ordinary blood-clot, and then dissected away the cyst- •wall. The supposed blood-clot was found, on microscopic examination, to be composed of mixture of the cells of a mixed round and ,spindle-celled sarcoma, with coagulated blood <Fig. 303). The wall of the cyst Avas found io be composed of piu’e sarcomatous tissue. The gi-owth reciuTed before the Avomid was completely closed, and amputation at the knee-joint Avas performed, the patient making <i o'oocl rccoycl'y. " “Mixed Sarcomata.—Tumoiu’S are frequently seen Avhich combine in them- selves striictm-es properly belonging to two or more distinct forms o grow Several of these have been already mentioned. Thus the growths standing on the doubtful line between small spindle-celled sarcoma and fibroma, are spo en of aBfiiro-sarcomata. In very rare cases some of the cells of a sarcoma may olevelope into true fat-cells ; Ave have then the Upo-sarcoma. Spindle-celled or small round-celled tissue is not iiiifrequently associated with cartilaginous tumours, forming the chondrosarcoma. Occasionally large tracts of a tumour, the chief part of which is purely sarcomatous, may midergo mucous softening, and the ceUs may be more or less stellate or branched, as in a myxoma, and we have then the myxosarcoma. As before stated, the tissue between the acini ■of an adenoma may present exactly the striictm’e of a spindle-celled or even roimd-ceUed sarcoma ; these tumoms are then sometimes called a^7eno-sa)•co- meda. Lastly, the stroma of a cancer may be composed of cells like those ^ a large spindle-celled sarcoma. In tiimom’S Avhich are pimely sarcomatous it is moreover, A'ery common to find a mixtm’e of the A’arious kinds of cells which have been described as characterising the different varieties mentioned in the preceding pages. w. TUMOURS COMPOSED OF CELLS OF AN EPITHELIAL T'VPE ARRANGED IN SPACES IN A STROMA CONSISTING OF MORE OR LESS PERFECTLY DEVELOPED FIBROUS TISSUE. The members of this group constitute the cancers or carcinomata, and are uniformly malignant in their progress. Cancer, Carcinoma.—Before proceeding to the indiA'idiial growths forming" this class, it Avill be desirable to say a feAV Avords upon the subject of cancer generally.* The term has been very A'agiiely applied, the older pathologists * It is not my intention to enter largely into the general history of malignant diseases, as siuice ''vill not admit of mv doing so ; I would therefore refer my readers, who wish for further information on this inte- resting subject, to the works of Aheruethy; tiie iiapers hy Lawrence; tlie admirable and magnificent “ illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease,” hy Sir R. Carswell: to the excellent and copious monograph hy AValslie; and to P-iget's piiilosophic Lectures on this subject. Amongst the foreign works maybe mentioned “ Traite des Tumeurs," by Broca; and Billroth’s “ Handbook of General and Special Surgery,” aud “General Surgical Pathology aiid Therapeutics.”