THE ELASTIC LIGATURE. 819 operation, that the tumour extends more deeply than had been anticipated and comes into such close relation with important vessels, as at the summit of the axilla or in the perimeum, as to prevent him from dissecting it out without imminent risk of destroying the patient, the only alter- native left is one that I have seen Liston adopt, and have had occasion myself to practise ; viz., to throw a strong whip-cord ligature, above the apex of the ^-owth as high up as practicable, and then to cut off everything below this. On the separation of the ligature, any portion of the tumour that has been included will be brought away as if it had been removed by the knife. In some cases it will be found, after dividing the fascia covering the tumour, that the attachments of the growth are not so firm or deep as had been pre- viously expected ; this is especially the case in some large tumours springing from the side of the neck and the parotid region, or in the gToin. The growth may then often be removed in a great measure by separating the areolar tissue with the handle of the knife, merely dividhig those portions of the deeper attachments that are peculiarly dense. The wound that is left after the removal of a tumour usually unites, partly by adhesive inflammation, and partly by the second intention ; it should be lightly dressed, the edges being brought together by stiips of plaster and covered by water-di’essing, and if large, supported by a compress and bandage. If the cavity left be very deep, great advantage wiU be derived from the use of di’ainage tubes, to prevent the accumulation of the discharges. Sutures should not be employed unless absolutely necessary ; they irritate, and their removal is very painful. The clasiic ligature has of late years been employed for the strangulation of tumoius. It is possible that such a means may be useful in certain small pedunculated growths, which dry on being strangled ; but its application to large tumours, as of the breast, is simply a revival of medimval bai’barism with the aid of modem appliances. The slowness of its action, the pain as it ents through, the large wound that is left, the foetor from the necrosed tumoiu, and the chance of septic infection from this cause, aU tend to make it a method that should be avoided whenever the knife can be employed. Far more tedious, and certainly not safer than the knife, it is also inferior to caustics, which at aU events arrest putrefaction, and many of which, as chloride of zinc, have a powerful antiseptic action. 3 0 2