4i6 SPECIAL FRACTURES. may be employed ^\dtll advantage, the hand-piece admitting of upward movement, so as to raise the hand and extend tlie fingers forcibly. In a case in which the symptoms denoted prcssime on the musculo-spiral nerve by one of the fragments or by the callus, Olficr of Tjyons cut down on the bone, removed a portion of the callus by chisel and mallet, so as to expose the nerve, and excised also a portion of bone (apparently of the lower fr’agment), which ■was strangulating the nerve. Gradual improvement took place; and, at the end of six and a half months, the patient liad regained considerable power of extension of the carpus. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Elbow-Joint arc neces- sarily serious accidents. They are commonly occasioned by falls on the point of the olecranon, which is the process of bone most frequently and extensively fractiued. In some cases the olecranon escapes injury, whilst the lower epiphysis of the hmnerus is splintered into many pieces ; and more commonly, perhaps, both bones, uhia as well as himierus, are injmed. As the integu- ments over the point of the elbow are thick and hard, very extensive com- minution of the bones may occur with very little apparent injury of the soft part's. When these fractimes are the result of gun-shot injury, the soft parts may be extensively tom, and the bones greatly shattered. In the cases that occm- in civil practice, I have seldom seen much laceration of the of these important accidents must necessarily depend upon the amoimt of injmy done both to bones and to soft parts. If the articu- lation be simply opened with little laceration of the sun-ounding soft parts, and no comminution of the fractured bone, the limb may very commonly be saved by antiseptic and active antiphlogistic treatment. If the bones be much shattered, the soft parts not being seriously implicated, removal of the splinters and resection of the injured joint wiU enable the Surgeon to save the rest of the hmb But if the soft parts be extensively contused and torn, as well as the bones comminuted, amputation of the arm may be required. If recourse be not had to primary resection, abscess may form m front ot oi aroumrthe joint, with much constitutional distm-bance, requiring the removal of the articular osseous extremities in a few weeks, or possibly amputation of the hmb men resection is detennined on, either as a primary oi as a secondary operation, the question may arise whether a partial or a complete removal of the articulation should be practised. In these cases I am decidedly in favour of complete resection ; any articular surface that is left cox eied with Z SZtt cartilage, mterferee very matenaUy with tie deposition of lymph iiecessary for repair. Before this can take place, the cai-tilage must he lemored rr^cess ot\sinte^^^^^^ or necrosis of a tedious character, and attended by a process o t, avoided by the complete resection of all hy profuse suppmatiom ^ the articular surfaces, operation is done the better ; when a tion IS deteimi ^ > Suro’eon must wait until suppuration is secondary operation IS per o^^ possible, lest S:“’;upcrvene. cttoM’iltrc—Z:; the clhow-joint,di,rcrsin no material ros,icct