S96 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. than from onc-sixth to a (|uartcr of a gTain of morphia should at first bo used at one time, and the action of this small dose is often very powerful. More than this, it is unsafe to begin with ; but the (quantity may be enormously increased. I have had a patient who, to relieve the pains attending cancer of the rectum and anus, required no less than six gi-ains to be injected every twelfth hour. In some cases a single injection has cured neuralgia which has resisted all other- means. In many cases all these means, however, are unfortunately unavailing, and the sufferer is doomed to an existence of almost constant pain, except at times when the disease appears to cease of itself, or has its intensity blunted by the administration of the more powerful sedatives, such as morphia hypodermically, or veratria, aconite, or atropine externally. In these distressing cases the sufferer is ready to grasp at any means of relief that is held out to him ; and section of the affected nerve is not unfrequently recommended as a last chance of the removal of the disease. It is clear, however, that such an operation, though occasionally j)roductive of temporary relief, cannot in most cases be expected to benefit the patient permanently ; for by it the cause of the neuralgia is not removed, and it can consequently only be of service when the pain is peripheral, occasioned by some local initation existing between the part cut and the terminal branches of the nerve. If the neuralgia depend on any central cause, or on local irritation existing higher up than the point divided, the operation must eventually be useless. Thus, if the source of irritation exist in the terminal branches of the infraorbital nerve, the division of this trunk might be useful; but if the pain be occasioned by any pressm-e to which this nerve may be subjected in its passage through its canal by a carious state of the bones, or by disease of the periosteum, it would be unavailing ; though it is a remarkable fact, that it not unfr’equently happens that there is after these- operations a temporary cessation in the pain for a few weeks or months. In some of these cases, however, the pain shifts its seat from the branch operated on to another division of the same trunk ; thus, if the infraorbital have been divided, the inferior dental or submental nerve becomes the seat of pain. Or- this may ascend, as it were, to the point at which the nerve was divided ; thus, after amputation for neuralgia of the knee, the pain may return in the stump,, and again when this is removed a second or even third time. The nerves on which section has been most frequently performed are the different branches of the fifth—the infr-aorbital, the inferior dental, and the submental. Should it ever be thought necessary to do it, it would be proper not only to divide the nerve, but to excise a portion of it; otherwise reunion will speedily take place, and the continuity of the nerve being re-established,, the operation will fail. The procedure, when apphed to the infr’aorbital and the submental nerves, simply consists in cutting down on the trimk where it escapes from the foramen, isolating and dissecting out a portion of it; m doing this, no great difficulty can be experienced by any one possessing moderate anatomical knowledge. Langenbeck has proposed excision of that part of the infraorbital nerve which lies in the orbit. A tenotomy-knife is caiTied along the outer wall of the oi-bit, and the iienn is divided where it escapes from the- spheno-maxillary fissm-e. Wood of New York has successfully excised the trunk as far back as its exit ifom the skull through the ioramen rotundiim.