824 SCEOFULA AND TUBERCLE. diathesis, says Simon, “ consists in a peculiarity of Idood-dcTelopment, under A\ Inch the nascent blood tends to molecular death by superoxydation.” Accoiding to C. J. B, Williams, “Tubercle is a degraded condition of the iiutritive material from Ajdaich the old textures are renewed, and the new ones formed ; and it differs from fibrine or coagulable lymph not in kind, but in degree of vitahty and capacity of organisation.” It must, however, be ■\dewed in the light of a new formation derived fr-om the lymphatic elements of the connective tissue (Fig. 318); and it exhibits a Pig. 31S.—Diagram from Virchow, of Development of Tuhcrcle from connective Tissue in the Pleura, showing Transition from Corpuscles of that Tissue up to the producti6n of Tuhercie Granules. Tlie cells in the micUlle are undergoing fatty degeneration. 300 Diameters. constant tendency to affect the lymphatic system in every organ which it invades. It is essentially a lowly organised formation, tending rapidly to dis- integration and dissolntion. Recent experiments have conffimed the opinion formerly held, that it has not a specific origin : it may be produced in the lower animals by the introduction beneath the skin of irritating or putrid animal substances, and it will very readily reproduce itself, both locally and in internal organs, when transferred fr-om one animal to another. Stmeture.—Tubercle essentially ocem-s in two forms. It is met with as semi- transparent grey granulations, smooth, and cartilaginous in look, somewhat hard, closely adherent, and accumulated in groups, often with a good deal of i inflammatory action in the siuToimding tissues. These -gTey gTannlations, j', usually about the size of a small pin’s head, appear to consist of modified j, exndation-matter. They have a tendency to run into masses, and to form the , J true yellow tubercle, w^hich is met with in opaque, firm, but friable concretions / of a dull whitish, or yellowish colom-, homogeneous in strnctin-e, and without j any appearance of vascularity. The microscopic characters of tubercle present no very specific appearances. The grey granulations or mihaiy tubercle consist mainly of a fii-m, reticulate stroma, in Avhich are imbedded a number of cells and nuclei. These cells present two principal varieties, which measure respectively y-l of an inch in diameter : the larger ones contain two or three nuclei, which ' may sometimes be seen in the act of dividing; the smaller ones contain only a single nucleus. Many free nuclei, oval or spindle-shaped, also exist. In the condition called crude yellow tubercle, multiple cells may be found at the circumference of the mass, whilst single nucleated cells occupy the centre : free nuclei are scattered abundantly amongst the cells. Both cells and