221 DIRECTION. operations. These latter inflict perhaps the worst forms of injury from bodies propelled by explosive force that are met with in ciml practice. In siege opera- tions much injury also is often inflicted by the splinters from parapets, or by the forcible throwing up of gi-avel and small stones by the explosion of shells. In naval actions too, the force ^\dth which splinters of wood are driven, when struck and scattered by cannon-shot, is often so great as to inflict the most serious and fatal mischief. A particular form of injury sometimes met with in civil practice, and which belongs to this class, is a wound of the eyeball by the explosion and splintering of faulty percussion-caps. Wounds of the face and other parts from the splashes or splinters of ImUets fi-om the sm-face of targets, are of common occiuTcnce among markers at rifle-ranges. Bxillets, slugs, and grape-shot, occasion more serious wounds than any that have yet been described ; lacerating soft parts, fractming and crushing bones, tearing asunder vessels and nerves, perforating the viscera, and occa- sionally cutting off parts, as a Anger, the nose, or an ear. The general introduction of rifled fire-arms into modem warfare has greatly increased the destractive effects of bullets. The missile is now comparatively rarely deflected from its course by the resistance offered by bones, tendons, or by the elastic reaction of the skin, as happened vith the spherical baU, but penetrates in a straight line from the point struck, tearing through the soft parts, and splinter- ing the bones extensively. On the bones especially, the modern conico-cylindrical lulM produces the most de- structive effects ; not only comminuting the part struck, but often splitting up the shaft of the bone, by its wedge-like action, in Assures many inches long, leading into contiguous joints. (Fig. 85.) In consequence of the greater and more sudden disorganisation of the soft parts, the shock to the nervous system is greater when a pcrso]i is struck by a conico-cylindrical than by a spherical ball. Direction.—In the majority of cases, a bullet tra- verses, and the wound has two apertures, one of entry, the other of exit; occasionally it happens, however, that in consequence of the ball being spent, or of the piece not having been eflicicntly loaded, or of the oblique iZy snSf) direction with Avhich the ball strikes the part, it merely leaves a contusion oi' dent, reboimding oi* glancing' off. In other cases there is only one apertm’e ; and here the bullet, partly spent, has probably lodged in the soft tissues, or in a bone, or in the cavity of a hollow organ, as the bladder. It sometimes happens, however, that the ball efrops *^out through the apertime at which it entered, as when a spent ball strikes a rib; or that it can-ies a pouch of clothing before it, which enables the Surgeon to Avithdraw it. One bullet may ex^en make more than two apertiu’es: thus a ball has been kno^^m to split against the sharp edge of the tibia, and to have one aperture of entry and two of exit; or it may pass through both thighs or both calves, and thus occasion four apertures ; and cases have been recorded in which five wounds oven have been made in the same person by one