751 FIBROMATA. examination, pure fibromata are found to be composed of interlacing bundles of Avliite fibrous tissue, scattered amongst which are cells, few iii number, and spindle-shaped, stellate, or oval in form (Fig. 278). These ai-e often oidy rendered apparent by the addition of acetic acid. In most cases the Acssels are not abundant, but frcciuently these tumoins can be shown by in- jection to be very vascular. Sometimes coarse cavernous spaces may be found. The vessels are intimately adherent to the fibrous structure of the tumour, and consequently, being unable to contract or retract, they pour out enormous quantities of blood if opened by wound or ulceration. This is especiaUy_ the case in those fibrous tumours which grow from the bones of the head or face, as in the fibrous polypi growing from the body of the sphenoid bone. Haemor- rhage is moreover often a marked symptom of fibroid tumours of the uterus. ^ Fibromata form most commonly about middle life, and may remain stationary for years, and this is the condition in which they are often pre- sented to the Surgeon. They may, however, suffer various anatomical changes. They may undergo disintegration, becoming oedematous, and softening in the centre, or at various points of the circumference ; they then break down into a semi-fluid mass, the integuments covering them inflame and slough, and imhealthy pus, mixed vdth disorganised portions of the tumour, is poured out, leaving a large and sloughy chasm, from which fimgating growths may sprout, readily bleeding on the slightest touch, and giving the sore a malig- nant appearance ; the patient eventually falling into a cachectic condition, and becoming exhausted by the hmmorrhage and discharge. In other cases these tumoiu’S may calcify, or more rarely undergo true ossification. In rare cases the central parts of these tumom'S may undergo a process of softening, so as to form large cysts containing fluids of various shades of colour. Paget relates the case of a very large cyst of this kmd formed by the hollowing out of a fibroid tumom of the uterus, which was tapped by mistake for ovarian dropsy. Some of the forms of fibroma require fiuther mention here, though they will be again mentioned under the diseases of the organs in which they occur. Fibromata of Bone.—These may grow from the centre of the bone, as is not uufrequently seen in the lower jaw, or from beneath the periosteum. The diagnosis between these latter and the firmer varieties of sarcoma can only be made after removal. Virchow lays great stress upon the fact that periosteal fibromata do not penetrate into the structm’e of the bone, or show any ten- dency to infiltrate the suiTounding soft parts, while the reverse is the case wdth the sarcomata. Fibromata of Nerves.—These are commonly spoken of as neuromata, although this term Avould be more properly limited to those tumours in AA^hich newly formed nerve-filaments are found. They form rounded tumours, over Avhich the fibres of the nerve are stretched; they are fr’equently multiple, sometimes extremely numerous, very hard and dense, and almost invariably painless, and not affecting the function of the nerve upon Avhich they groAV. They are ahvays more movable in a direction transverse to the course of the nerve upon Avhich they are seated than in any other ; a symptom which is of some importance in their diagnosis.