646 INJUBIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND BELVJS. protrusion by steady pressure upon it; he must not, hoAvevor, employ any force, nor any rough liandliiig of the exposed and delicate parts; but if their return cannot readily be elfected, owing to the constriction of the neck of the tumour, the apertime through which they have escaped must be carefully enlarged in a direction upwards, by means of a probe-pointed bistoiuy, or a hernia-knife guided by a flat director. The incision necessary to enlarge the opening sufli- ciently for reduction, need not exceed half an inch in length. In replacing the protruded parts, whether by the aid of incision or not, care must be taken that they are fairly put back into the cavity of the abdomen, and not pushed up into the sheath of the rectus, or into the subserous areolar tissue lying before the peritoneum ; an accident that would be fatal by allowing the constriction of the neck of the protrusion to continue unrelieved. In eifectiug the return, the Siugeon should not push liis finger into the abdomen, but must content himself-with simply replacing the protruded gut or omentum, and allowing it to remain in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound in the abdominal wall, to which it will contract adhesions ; and through which its contents may escape, in the event of any sloughing being set up in it. If the protrusion be inflamed, it must equally be replaced without delay ; but should the intestine have become gangrenous from continued constriction and exposiue, no attempt at reduction should be made, but an incision must be canied through it, so as to allow the escape of faeces, and the formation of an ai’tificial anus. If the protruded omentum'^ be gangrenous, it must be excised on a level with the pp.Titnnp.nm, to the apertm’e in which that portion lying within the abdomen wiU have contracted adhesions. If the intestine that protrudes he wounded, the treatment of the aper- ture in the gut mil call for special attention ; and Siugeons have been some- what divided as to the question of the propriety of stitching it up. Scarpa and S. Cooper were opposed to this practice on the ground that it does not jDrevent extravasation, and that the stitches produce iiritation by acting as foreign bodies. They proposed to return the woimded gut, taking care, how- ever, to leave the aperture in it to correspond with that in the abdominal wall, so that an artificial anus might be established by the adhesion of the edges of the openings to one another, and by that means prevent extravasation. To this practice the great objection exists, that extravasation will probably occur before there has been time for the effusion of lymph, and the agglutination of the contiguous surfaces ; besides which, it is impossible to secm’e the necessary con-espondence between the two apertm-es, the wounded gut being very liable to alter its position after it has been replaced. It has also been found by experience that one of the objections m’ged against the employment of a suhue, that it camiot prevent the escape of feculent matter, is not valid. If it be properly applied, it may effectually do so, as was shown by a successful case under my care, the details of which were pubhshed in the Lancet tor 18al. That the stitches act as sources of irritation to any extent, is also doubtlul. Travers foimd by experiment that, when a wounded gut was sewn up, and returned into the abdomen, the sutiues quickly became bridged or coated over with a thick layer of lymph, and, gradually ulcerating them way inwards, at last di'opped into the cavity of the intestine, being dischcUgec jic/ leaving a firm cicatrix at the point to which they liad been app lec. 01 1 \