EFFECTS OF HEAT ARE COLD. 256 degree of severity proportionate to the previous depression ; and, as this stage ad^■ances, it is attended by special symptoms, dc^oendent upon inflammatory afiections, more especially of the abdominal and thoracic viscera. Death, ■which is more frequent during this stage than in the preceding one, is usually con- nected 'with some inflammatory condition of the gasti’o-intestiual mucous membrane or of the peritoneum. The lungs also are frequently affected, showing marked evidence of pneumonia or bronchitis ; but the cerebral lesions ' ai-e not so common as in the first stage ; though, when they occur, they present more unequivocal evidence of inflammatory action. The following are the results of the post mortem examinations which I have made. Of 17 cases in Avhich the contents of the cranium were examined during this period, there was congestion, -wnth evidence of inflammation and effusion of serous fluid, generally mixed -with blood, in 14 ; a healthy state in the remaining 3. Of 1!) cases in which the Imigs were examined, there was congestion of these organs jDrobably inflammatory in most instances ; rvith serum or lymph in the pleura, and redness of the bronchial mucous membrane, in 10. The limgs were hepatised in 5, and healthy in 4. The abdominal organs were examined in cases ; of these there was congestion of the mucous membrane, sometimes with evidence of peritonitis, in 11 ; ulceration of the duodenum in G ; a healthy state in 5. It is in this stage of burn, that the very remarkable and serious sequela, perforating ulcer of the duodenum, is especially apt to occiu. Ciu’hng, who fii-st attracted attention to it, explained its occuiTeuce by the supposition that Briirmer’s glands endeavour, by an increased action to compensate for the sup- pression of the exhalation of the skin consequent upon the biun ; and that the irritation thus induced tends to their inflammation and ulceration. This ulceration may, as Curling remarks, by rapidly proceeding to perforation, expose the pancreas, open the branches of the hepatic artery, or, by making a com- mrmication with the serous caA'ity of the abdomen, produce peritonitis, and thus cause death. It usually comes on about the tenth day after the occiuTence of the injmy ; seldom earlier than this. The only exception Avith which I am acquainted was in the case of a child nine years of age, who died on the fomth day after the bmm, in University College Hospital, and in whom an ulcer, of about the size of a shilling, AA'ith sharp cut margins, was fomid in the duode- num ; the intestinal mucous membrane generally being inflamed. That these ulcers are not invariably fatal, is eAudent from a case mentioned by Ciuling, in which, on death occiuring, from other causes, eight Aveeks after the injury, a recent cicatrix Avas found in the duodenum. These affections seldom occasion any very marked symptoms to indicate the natiue of the mischief, the patient suddenly sinking. In some instances there is ha3moiThage ; thouo-h this is not an imequivocal sign, as I have several times seen it happen from simple inflammatory congestion of the intestinal mucous mem- brane. Pain in the right hypochonchlac region, and perhaps vomiting, may also occin. 3. The stao'e of Suppuration and Exhaustion continues frnm the second week to the close of the case. In it we frequently haA'e symptoms of heefre, with much constitutional irritation from the long continuance of exhausting dis- charges. If death occur, it is most Irequently induced by inflammation of the