687 ERYSIPELAS. CHAPTEE XXXII. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas so frequently and seriously complicates most other surgical dis- eases and injm-ies, that its study is of the utmost importance to the practical Surgeon. It usually manifests itself as a peculiar and distinct form of inflam- mation of the skin, ha^iing certain special characters Avhich distinguish it from the ordinary inflammation already described. Erysipelas, or, as it may he termed, the Erysipelatous Inflammation, including all those yarieties of this condition that are usually spoken of as “ diffuse,” has a remarkable tendency to spread with great rapidity by contmuity of siu’face, to change its seat, and not to be limited by any adhesive action. It may extend itself over any continuous siuface; the skin, the areolar tissue, the mucous and serous membranes, and the hning membrane of arteries, veins, and lymphatics, are all liable to be affected. Hence, to describe it merely as a cutaneous disease, a dermatitis, as has often been done, is not only highly incorrect, but unphilosophical, and evinces a very limited acquaintance AAuth its true natiu’e. It affects the skin more frequently than other membranous surfaces, simply because the skin is more frequently than any other textime in the body the seat of wounds—the most common exciting cause of this disease. Indeed, not only must we look upon erysipelas as a disease that may affect any surface, external or internal, but we must consider the constitutional disturbance that takes place in erysipelas as the essential morbid condition. This, it is true, is usually complicated with diffiise inflammation of the integument and areolar tissue, and then constitutes one of the ordinary forms of erysipelas. But a constitutional fever may occur ot precisely the same type as that which we observe to precede and to accom- pany the local inflammation, Avithout any such complication. This I had special occasion to observe in a very fatal outbreak of erysipelas that took place in one of my wards some years ago. On that occasion, all the cases in which the cutaneous form of erysipelas appeared Avere marked by severe constitutional disturbance, attended by much gastro-intestinal irritation. But precisely the same type of general febrile symptoms, and the same irritation of the stomach and boAvels, occurred in patients in the same Avard irr Avhom rro local or surface nianifestation of the disease took place. The trire pathology of the diffrrse, Ioav, or erysipelatous inflammations has yet to be made out. They are all closely connected with one another, and are evidently blood or constitutional diseases, rrnder whatever name they go. The similarity of causes, of effects, and of con- stitutional disturbance, makes it probable that they are all essentially depen- dent on one common condition of the blood; and that the particular local mandestation that occurs is secondary to this, and perhaps in some deo-ree accidental, and dependent on varying local conditions. "