REDUCTION OF ILIAC DISLOCATION. 501 The Diagnosis of this form of dislocation is easy in proportion as the head of the bone lies high on the dorsiun ilii. The more it sinks towards and into the sciatic notch, the more difficult docs the detection of the displacement become, and the greater the risk of its being overlooked altogether, or mistaken for a sprain. °In ordinary cases of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, the ever- sion of the limb at once points out that the head of the bone is not dislocated oil the ilium. The only severe injury of the hip with which the disloca- tion upivards and backwards can be confounded, is the rare case of fractw & of the neck of the thigh-hone, with inversion of the limh. In this accident, the increased mobihty, and the existence of crepitus, will enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. Should, however, the fracture be an impacted extracap- sular one, with inversion, then the difficulty of diagnosis is undoubtedly great. A correct conclusion may, however, be arrived at by observing that in the fractiu'c the flattened trochanter is approximated to, and is in nearly a pei’pen- dicidai’ hne with, the anterior superior spine of the ihum ; whilst in the dislocation the trochanter is diagonally behind that process of bone, and the head of the thigh-bone can be felt in its new situation by deep manipulation of the gluteal region. HeductioxL of Iliac Dislocation by notation.—The patient being laid on his back and fuUy ansesthetised, the Surgeon flexes the thigh upon the abdomen, so that the head of the bone is hfted out from behind the acetabu- lum. The limb should now be slowly abducted, and rotated outwards. By this manoeuvre the head revolves around the great trochanter, which is fixed by the outer branch of the Y-ligament, and rises into its articular cavity. The movement is facihtated by carrying the limb downwards as weU as out- wards. Bigelow has summarised the movements necessary to effect reduction in this way in the following words, ‘‘Liftuf), hend out, roll out.” In some cases slight rotation imuards, instead of outwards, succeeds best. In others, again, it may be necessary for the Surgeon to place his foot, covered only with a stocking, on the anterior superior spinous process, to steady the pelvis while he raises the bent knee. Reduction by Extension is effected in the following manner. The patient, having been put under the influence of chloroform, is laid on his back upon a strong table. One staple should then be fixed in the floor near the head of the bed at the side eomsponding to that of the dislocated limb, while another staple 22s.-norsm Dislocation, noductiou l,y Rotation. 1H IO 1Trrr\l 1 ^ ... .0_ _J_ H’Bn B mill •■I11-I11 ii. is placed in the wall at the foot, above the level of the body, in a direct line with the axis of the limb, and about twelve feet from the other. The limb baa been flexed and abducted, and it remains 01 dy to evert it and render the outer Branch of the Y-ligamcnt tense by Rotation. (Bigelow.) The counter-extending force must then be made by a jack-towel or a padded leather belt passed between the injiu’cd