662 MOBTIFIGATION, OR GANGRENE. by the circulation into the arterial system, stops at some point of bifm’cation or of narrowing ot a vessel. In such cases the gangrene may develop itself suddenly. The aecompanying drawing (Fig. represents the bifiu’cation ot the common femoral artery occupied by a fibrinous plug, taken from a man aged ?,2, who died of gan- grene of the left leg. In this case the patient, after recovering from rheumatic endocarditis, whilst straining at stool, suddenly felt his left leg tingle painfully, then become numb and cold. The circulation in it ceased, and gangrene speedily supervened, which extended as liigh as the knee. Death followed amputa- tion of the limb. Here there can be little doubt that the sudden supervention of gangrene was the result of obstruction to the obstiuR- arterial circulation of the lower extremity, consecpient on the Arteiy detachment of a fibrinous endocardial plug, and its aiTest at Emboion bifurcation of the femoral artery. Spontaireous gangrene is termed Senile when it occiu’S in old people in consequence of the Coats of the Arteries becoming Rigid and Calcified (Fig. 2G4), and unable to maintain the proper circulation of blood through the limb. The want of a due supply of arterial blood in these cases is not only owing to the diseased state of the arteries, but is in a gveat measure due to the feeble propulsive power of the heart, and the consequent naturally weakened circulation through the lower limbs especially. When the circula- tion is so enfeebled as to lower the nutrition of the limb, coldness, cramps, and in some cases cutaneous ulcerations, will ensue. When the circulation becomes arrested from the conjoined influences of diminished cardiac propulsive power and arterial obstruction, gangnene inevitably results. It is met with in the lower extremities of people past the middle period of life, and the tendency to it increases as age advances. The premonitory symptoms are as follow. A sensation of Aveight in the limb, Avith coldness, itching, and tingling in the feet, and cramps in the calves, is complained of, and the circulation of the part is habitually defective, the pulsation of the tibials being scarcely per- ceptible. This condition commonly exists for a considerable length of time before gangrene actually comes on, and should always be looked upon Avith anxiety in old people. In many instances the disease sets in AAuthout any exciting cause ; but in other cases the mortification is immediately developed, as the result of some slight inflammation accidentally induced, as from the excoriation produced by a tight boot, or from a trivial wound in cutting a com or toe-nail; the inflammation occasioned by this slight injiuy being sufficient to disturb the balance of the circulation in the already weakened part to so great an extent, that gangi’ene ensues. In other instances, again, the disease is ushered in by more acute symptoms. The whole foot becomes swollen, oedematous, and red ; inflammation, apparently of a gouty character, being set up in it. In whatever way it begins, the gangrene may at first only affect one toe, or it may from the commencement inAmlve several toes. It most g-encrally in the fii’st instance appears in the form of a cold purple or blackish-icd spot on the side of one of the toes, usually the inner side of the great toe , this spot may be sruTOunded by an inflamed areola, and accompanied by much smarting and birrning pain of a paroxysmal character ; it spreads by grac rra y