432 SPECIAL FRACTURES. The shortening of the limb is very considerable, being never less than from an inch and a quarter to two inches and a half, or three inches. The Impacted Extracapsular Fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone occurs when, in consequence of a heavy fall on the hip, the neck is broken Fi"s 176 177-Section of Impacted Extracapsular Fractures of Neck of Femiu-; showing ° ■ ’ ■ the degree of Impaction and of Splintering in different cases. across at its root, and the upper fragment is driven into the cancellous struc- ture of the lower one, often splitting up and detaching the trochanter (Figs. 176, 177). The Signs of this form of fractm-e are often somewhat negative, rendering its diagnosis and detection extremely difficult. There is pain about the hip, with Version of the foot, sometimes slight, sometimes great, and some shorten- ino-, occasionally not more than a quarter of an inch, usually amounting to about half an inch, but never exceeding one inch. There is but little crepitus —in some cases none can be detected, owing to the close interlocking of the fracrments ; and the patient can then raise the foot for a few inches off the coimh on which it is laid, and even Avalk a short distance upon it with a hobblino- motion, though with much pain. Some flattening over the trochanter is usually perceptible ; sometimes an increase in breadth from before back- wards. In consequence of the impaction the limb caimot be restored by traction to its proper length, and hence incurable lameness always results from ^^In'the Jxtracapsidar fractflre of the neck of the femin, death not uncommonly i-sults from the severity of the injury, the pain and irritation of the fractme, and the consequent shock to the system. The great extravasation of Wood into the tissues of the limb has been known to be sufficient to account for the fatal result When the patient hves, bony union takes place, lai-ge irregular stalac- liHc masses beino- commonly thrown out by the inferior fragment, so as to over- Im the several splinters of bone and thus give the appearance of great thick- mffig aiffi projection of the trochanter.^ This callus is most abundant posteriorly o( fraotm-e of the neok of the thigh- bone ftom one another, and from other injimee oeeim-mg in the ™,mt, of to hip-joint, is a matter of considerable importance, and often ot no slight difficidtj.