TUMOUBS. 738 cretory Ducts of tlie Seljaceous Glands, include the various forms of Atlieromatous Tumours that are met with ou the surface of the body. Ihese aie usually situated upon the scalp, face, neck, or back ; sometimes, hoAvevei, they occur elsewhere thus I have removed a very large one ft’om the fore part of a girl’s arm, and others from the labia and groin. The size of these tumours varies from that of a pin’s head to arr orange ; the smallest occur on the eyelids, the largest on the shoulders and scalp. They are often very nrrmerous, especially about the head, w^here as many as thirty or forty may bo met vvdth at the same timeand most frequently they form in w'omen about the middle period of life : they are smooth, rorrnd, or oval, movable under the integument, either semi-flrrctuating or elastic, though sometimes solid to 'the touch. In some parts where the sebaceous follicles are large, as on the back, a small black point can often be detected on the sruface of the tumorrr, through which an aperture may be found leading into its interior, and allowing the expulsion of its contents. A sebaceous tumoim consists of a cyst-wall and contents. The cyst-wall is composed of dense white fibrous tissue, having elongated connective-tissue-corpuscles scattered through it. It is connected to the surrounding parts by loose areolar tissue, containing yellow elastic fibres in some abimd- ance. The thickness of the wall varies greatly. When the cyst is situated on the hairy scalp it will always be found to be tough and thick, while in all other situations it is much thiimer. Immediately in contact with the inner siu’face of the cyst-waU, a layer of ac- tively growing epithelial cells is found closely resembling the deeper layers of the epidermis ; fimther from the wall these assume a distinctly squamous form; then they become fiUed with fat granules, and finally break down into a fatty granular mass. The atheromatous mass forming the contents of the cyst is com- posed of this fatty debris (Fig. 271). If examined when freshly removed from a tumour, it will be found to be soft creamy pultaceous, or some- times cheesy-looking, of a yellowish white colour. Sometimes in old cysts it becomes dry and laminated, looking not imhke Parmesan cheese. In some cysts of old standing and large size, the contents may be semi-flmd, the more liquid parts being a brown, green, or blackish tint. These various con- tents are essentially composed of sebaceous matter, mixed in various piopoi- tions with epithelial scales, fat-granules, and cholesterine. Sometimes the cyst-wall is found to send fibrous septa towards the centre of the cyst, but tine papillcC or hair-follicles are never found in cysts due to obstruction of the cx- Fig. 271.—Couteuts of Atliei-omatous Cyst (454 cliam.) a. Epitheliai cells undergoing various degrees of fatty degeneration. n. The same with calcareous degeneration. c. Crystals of cholesterine. d. Oleaginous and fatty paxticles.