698 ERYSIPELAS. Tcfcrcnco to the low character of the local inflannnatioii, its tendency to run into suppuration and gangrene, the asthenic type that the constitutional fever readily assumes, and the frequent complication of visceral inflammations of a congesth’o fonn. The apparent intensity of the local inflammation must not lead the Surgeon into the fatal eiTor of employing an over-active antiphlogistic treatment, more particularly if the disease be epidemic, when it always assumes a low type. It is especially important to look to the future, and to remember that, if active depletory measures be employed early with a view of lessening the present disease, it will be at the risk of inducing more extensive sloughing, and perhaps of lowering the patient’s powers to such a degree as to prevent his bearing np under the depressing influeirce of the ulterior consequences of the disease. Treatment of Cntaneons or Simple Erysipelas.—The treatment required is essentially of a tonic and stimulating character. The principal medicinal remedies consist of bark, quinine, iron, and ammonia. If there be much thirst, these remedies may be given in an effervescent form. But in any case they should be administered in frequent doses. In many of the low forms of erysipelas, medicines are not well borne, the stomach rejecting them ; and then I have seen the best possible results follow the free administration of the brandy-and-egg mixtime, to which I am in the habit of trusting in the majority of these cases. During the progress of the disease, simple pmgatives must be given from time to time. In aucemic and cachectic individuals no remedy exercises so beneficial an influence as the tinctine of perchloride of non, administered in doses of twenty minims every third or fourth horn. The Local Treatment of this, as of every variety of erysipelas, is of equal import- ance with the constitutional management. In slight cases the part should be covered with floin or starch powder dusted ov’er it. In the more severe forms warm applications assiduously continued, especially poppy and chamomile fomen- tations apphed by means of flannels or spongio-piline, afford the greatest possible relief. Cold lotions should never under any circumstances be employed ; they not only lessen the vitality of the part, and thus favoin local sloughing, birt they may chance to cause a retrocession of the disease, and the consequent affection of some internal organ. The local abstraction of blood and of sennn from the iiiflamed part, by the plan introduced by Sir R. Dobson, of rapidly making with the point of a lancet a large number of small pimctmes, from a quarter to half an inch deep, is of much value, by lessening the tension and swelling, and con- sequently diminishing the inflammatory action ; a hot fomentation cloth or a poultice should be laid over the punctures so as to encom-age bleeding, aiid tlie escape of serum. Astringent applications to the inflamed sinface, such as a strong solution of the nitrate of silver, are recommended by some Surgeons, have seen them rather extensively employed in former years, but not witff any very marked success. A boundary line of nitrate of silver is occasiona y ram around the inflamed part, with a view of checking the extension of di®eas^ I have often done this, and seen it done by others, but never appaieu 3 any benefit ; and bane now discontinned the pnctice as oil iiTitatipn. If the disease have attacked one of the limbs, thejvpp ' bandage is occasionally necessary after the disappearance of the order to remove the mdema that remains, and to support the softened and weaker tissues.