766 TU2WUJiS. sbmce ami exton,ally, a„cl maypcri.aps acemmt for the readiness with wl.iel, ..any »,reom,Ua propagate themselves in the direetion of the eire. Iatio,f oS ly,nphat,es ot sarcomata to know little or nothing. These m-owths a o v pione o eai y degeneration. They most commonly imdeigo tiitty degenera- tion 111 their central parts, lint occasionally they may calcify • mucous softmiimr may take ptee. When they i-eaeh the surface they may Lgh a^^fd .toato oimmg foul caA ities, sometimes of great size. Cysts are of frequent oceiUTence m some forms of tliese tumours. On scraping after a section has been made fresh, but after about tvventy-fou^ is It can often be obtained. Some sarcomata are distinctly circumscribed and enclosed m a fibrous capsule, others infiltrate surrounding pX like le caicmomata. Sarcomata are most frequent in youth and middle life. As a ride, it may be said that sarcomata infect the system generally through the mediim of the blood-ve.ssels, ivhile carcinoma is disseminated chiefly by e lymphatic system. This rule has many exceptions, yet nothing is more common than to see secondary gTowths of sarcoma in the lungs, liver, and 0 er orpns, iidthout the lymphatic glands having ever been affected. The reverse is certainly the rule in carcinoma. It may also be bi’oadly stated that the more closely a sarcoma approaches to fidly developed connective tissue in Its structure, the less likely it is to prove malignant; but this rule also is not free fi-oni exceptions. Sarcomata vary greatly in their rate of growth, some proving fatal in less than a year, others lasting many years without attaining any considerable size. Sarcoma-tissue sometimes occurs mixed with other kinds of growth. Varieties OE Sarcojrl—Small Round-celled Sarcoma. Granulation Sarcoma. Encephaloid Sarcoma.—These tumours were fonnerly included among soft or encephaloid cancers. They resemble in structure the superficial layers of granulations, being comjDosed of small round cells about the size of a white blood-corpuscle, or a little larger, each containing a round or oval nucleus, and imbedded in a homogeneous intercellular substance (Fig. 292). Fig. 292.—Round-colled Sarcoma, from a large tumour in the muscles round the upiier end of the femur (188 diam.) The cells vary in size and have a vei-y clear nucleus and nucleolus ; the matrix wliieh has shrank away from the cells is faintly granular. Fig. 293.—Siiindle-ceUed Sarcoma, from sub- cutaneous tissue of groin (ISS diam.) Cells of medium size; no intercellular fibres. Sometimes the intercellular substance is scarcely perceptible, sometimes it is more abundant, as in the accompanying figure. It may be more or loss dis-