i66 ULCERATION'. before tlie scar attains the vitality of the older strnctui'es, if cs’cr it do so com- pletely ; and the larger it is, the less its power will usually be. Under the influence of scurvy or sy]Dhilis, an old scar is apt to open up again ; so also, if a fi’csh ulcer be fomred on the old cicatrix, it will take a longer time to heal than the original one. In structure, cicatrices are composed of a fibro-cellular tissue, rather spar- ingly supplied with blood-vessels, and covered by a thin epidermic covering, usually smooth and glistening, but sometimes nodulated and rugose. The sensibilitij of the cicatrix itself is lower than that of the skin generally, but the edges of the integument, Avhere in contact wth the cicatrix, are usually more sensitive than are the integuments on other parts of the body. When tough and irregular cicatricial bands, or “ ’bridles,” stretch across a part, it will usually be found that they are devoid of sensibihty. Diagnosis.—This is readily made when ulcers are seated on the skin, where no art is required to recognise a sore. On the mucous surfaces, however, it is not always easy to do so ; enlarged follicles and crypts, or aphthie, being constantly confounded vdth ulcers. The difficulty here proceeds from the circumstance that muco-pus may be poined out from a simply inflamed siu’face, or from one in which the abraded epitheliiun and open crypts are mistaken for ulcers. Treatment.—In the Local Treatment of ulceration, the Siu’geon must be guided by the special conditions presented by the ulcer, which will be described presently. But there are some points which demand attention in all cases. 1. Inflammation, when present, must be subdued ; until this be done, no proper reparative action can go on. 2. Congestion and determination of blood must be prevented, by keeping the part at rest, and in such a position as vdU allow the ready return of blood fr’om it. 3. Proper local applications adapted to the nature of the case, of an emollient, sedative, astringent, or stimulating character, must be employed fr-equently, conjoined vdth pressure upon, or support to, the weakened vessels of the part. Transplantation of Cuticle.—It has long been known to Physiologists and to Surgeons, that portions of the tegumentary structures, when completely detached and transplanted to other parts of the surface of the body, occa- sionally retain their vitality, and grow on the siuface on which they had been inserted. . i ^ . i The experiments of John Hunter on the transplantation of teeth, ot the cock’s spur, the experiments of Abernethy on the same subject, the adherence and continued groAvth. of a fr-eshly separated portion of the nose or chin, the transplantation, by Biienger, of a piece of the skin of the thigh on to tlic face for the formation of a new nose, and the observations of A alther that the button of bone removed by a trephine, if re-inserted, will contract adhesions ao-ain—all prove the fact that freshly separated parts, if immediately rc-applied to a raw surface, may contract adhesions to it. But it was reseiwcd tor lle- ^•ordin to show that cuticle, if transplanted, might be employed as an agent m the cicatrisation of granulating surfaces. This observation is as interesting m its scientific aspect, as it is full of promise in its application to p as ic siiigei}, nid has ah-eady been found in many instances to be of the greatest value in facilitating the cicatrisation of large ulcerated surfaces, which could not be