DISEASES OF THE FERVOUS SYSTEAL 904 TETANUS. Tetanus is a disease consisfciug essentially m an excited state of the siiinal coxd and the medulla oblongata, in fact of the whole true spinal system, giving rise to painful and continued spasms of the voluntary muscles and the dia- phragm, a,lternating with incomplete relaxation, and usually terminating fatally. This, which is one of the most serious and distressing diseases to which the nervous system is liable, is in the great majority of instances of a Traumatic nature, being the consequence of some wound that implicates or irritates a portion of the peripheral nervous system; the local iiTitation so produced being propagated to and affecting the nervous centres, the excitation of which becomes persistent, and continues after the local cause has been re- moved, inducing reflex muscular movements in various parts of the body. The irritation of the nervous system, however, that induces tetanus, may arise from other sources besides surgical wounds, occasioning the Idiopathic form of the disease; thus, for instance, the presence of worms in the intestinal canal, exposm-e to cold and wet, the ligature of the umbiheal cord in infants, and even the uterine in-itation folloxving abortion, have been known to occasion it. These causes, however, rarely give rise to it in this country, and we must consequently regard it as a disease chiefly arising from traumatic lesion of some kind. Causes of Tetanus.—Tetanus may occiu at all ages, from the earhest infancy to an advanced period of life. In hot climates it is common amongst newly born infants, in the form of Trismus Neonatorum. In this country it rarely ocem’s at this very early period of hfe, but is common in young adults. I have most frequently observed it between the. ages of 16 and 25, and after that in old people ; but it may occiu at any period of life. It is'far more common amongst males than females—in the proportion of about fom’ to one. Season of the ycoir seems to exercise little influence over it. It occurs in all states of the atmosphere, and at all periods of the year ; but is certainly most common when the weather is suddenly changeable—alternating from heat to cold. Indeed, long exposure to cold and wet, more particularly after the body has been heated, is the most common cause of tetanus when it occurs inde- pendently of surgical injury, and is a fr’equent predisposing cause in persons who have been wounded. Tetanus may be occasioned by injuries that do not give rise to breach of sm’face ; thus I have known it occiu in a child who was suddenly thrown doivn upon its back by another at play, in a gul fr’om a boy jumping on to her back, and in a lad by another striking him on the back by running a wheel- barrow at him ; and Reid mentions a case produced by the stroke of a whip. But in the great majority of cases, it is directly occasioned by a wound of some kind. Generally a nervous twig has been lacerated, divided, or inflamed ; and this seems to have been the starting point of that distm’bance of the spinal system of nerves which leads to the tetanic spasms. The hind of loound, as well as its situation, doubtless influences materially the occiurcnce of the disease. Though it certainly more fr'equently follows punctured, torn, and lacerated, than clean-cut Avounds, yet it occasionally com- plicates these, even Aidien they are made in siugical operations ; thus, it has