864 VENEREAL DISEASES. the evidence of an antecedent primary sore. Their Treatment must he con- stitutional as Avell as local; the constitutional means should consist in the administration of the perchloride of mercury with sarsaparilla ; and tlic best local treatment with which I am acquainted is to rub them freely with the nitrate of silver, dressing the parts in the mterval of the application with chlorinated lotions. Not being pendulous or distinctly protuberant, they do not, like the primary excrescences, require excision. ?). The Mucous Membranes of the Mouth, Nose, Pharynx, and Larynx, arc commonly affected with secondary syphilitic eruptions Avhich assume the form of mucous tubercles, or of the exanthematous, tubercular, and ulcera- tive syphilides. The exanthematous affection, corresponding to the roseolar form of cutaneous syphilis, and arising from the same cause and in the same constitution, principally affects the palate and throat. The tulercidar variety coiTesponds to the squamous cutaneous eruptions, and is chiefly met vdth as flat, hard, and elevated tubercles in the interior of the mouth, nose, and throat. The ulcerative affection of the mucous membranes assumes a variety of forms, which will immediately be described, and occurs princi- pally in the throat and nose. The exanthematous affection of the mucous membrane is usually an early sign of constitutional syphilis, frequently show- ing itself a few weeks after the primary occurx’ence of the disease. The other varieties belong to the more advanced secondary or tertiary pei-iods. The syphilitic affections of the mucous membranes so readily extend to, and are so commonly associated with, corresponding disease of the deeper structm’es, that we shall more conveniently consider their different forms according as they affect distinct organs or parts of the body. The Liy)s are connaonly affected in persons laboming under squamous syphilide, with fissiu’es or cracks usually somewhat indurated, and very painful in the movement of these parts. In the Treatment, the application of a pointed piece of nitrate of silver to the bottom of the crack null give the most effectual relief. The insides of the cheeks are not unfreqnently affected in a similar manner, or become the seat of mucous tubercles, which must be treated as has already been stated. The Tongue may be affected with syphilis in various forms ; when severely, its disease usually constitutes one of the tertiary varieties of the affection. In many cases the mucous membrane becomes thickened, but preseiwes a peculiar o'lossy, semi-transparent, almost gelatinous appearance, and, being iriegulaily fissin’ed, gives the organ a thick and misshapen look. In other instances, the enitheliinn is dry, white, and opaque in patches; the surface of the tongue lookin"’ as if it had been dyed white here and there. Occasionally, ulcers form imon its surface or sides ; these are usually iiTegular in shape, with a foul sin-face and a good deal of siUTOunding induration, and, unless cai'e be taken may readily be confounded vdth scirrhous or cpithelia,! cancer of the or«an The diagnosis of these affections we shall consider when speaking of diieasls of the tongue genei-allj. Occasionally a hard elevated cireiimscribcd tnniourof a (lark-red or purplish colour slowly form ton aids the centre ot this organ 1 it increases without pain and m a gradua manner, and princi- pally occasions inconvenience by its bulk and the impediment it oeeasions iii the movements of the tongue. These various diseases usually indicate a