346 SUrPUliATI02{ AND ABSCESS. lien it is about to form, tlio part Avhich has been pre^o’ously inflamed swells considerably, with a throbbing pulsatile pain ; the skin becomes shining, glazed, and ot a somewhat pinplish red. If the abscess be yery deeply seated, the super- imposed tissues become brawny and oedematous, without, perhaps, any other sign indicating the existence of pus. As the swelling approaches the surface, it softens at one pait, 'where fluctuation becomes perceptible, and a bulging of the skin covering its siunmit takes place ; this^JO'W?/wj^ of ilia ahscess indicates that it is about to bimst and discharge its contents, which it speedily 'will through a circular aperture foiTued in the skin. The intimate pathological phenomena attending the fomation of an abscess are as follow^s. In the nrflamed part, a collection of white cells takes place in the areolar- tissue aird gradually increases ; meamvhile, the proper tissue of the part is broken down and removed, or its shreds may remain mixed with the pus. The tissue lying beyond this collection of pus is very vascular, and is in- filtrated with new plastic matter, which, in healthy states of the system, forms a layer of “hmitiirg fibrine ” or “limitiirg membrane.” An abscess, perhaps originally deeply formed in the substairce of a hmb, increases by the additions of cells from the blood-vessels of the hmiting mem- braire, and also probably from the action of the aheady existing amoeboid cells in the tissues rvith which they come into contact. As the abscess extends, it has a special tendency to approach a fr-ee siu-face, wdrether that be external or internal, skin or mucous membrane ; the tissues betw'een it and the smface tow'ards which it is progressing being gradually broken dow-n, at the same time that the formation of cells is increased by the continuance of the inflammatory process in this direction. It is in this that the 2^oinM>i[i essentially consists.. As the abscess approaches the sm-face, the skin at fii-st becomes more or less h^id, tense, and oedematous, indicating the interference with its circulation; as the summit of the abscess presses upwards, the 03'erlying skin loses its tension and becomes relaxed ; it then sloughs at the most central point, fr-om which the cuticle has previously peeled off, and, the outw-ard pressure of the pus speedily detaching the slough, the abscess discharges itself. Though acute abscesses, if left to themseh’es, usually run this course and binst through the skin, the mucous or serous surfaces, or even into the interior of joints, yet some collections of pus, if very deeply seated, caimot find their way to the sinface, but extend through the areolar planes of the hmb in a lateral direction, bin- rowing and undermining the jDarts to a gi-eat extent; or, if situated in densu and unyielding structines, as in bone, are imprisoned within a case through which they may be unable to penetrate; in other rare instances, the pus becomes absorbed, and the abscess disappeai-s. After an abscess has burst or has been evacuated, its w^alls, wiiich have a close resemblance to a granulating surlhco,. contract and become coiTUgated, and gradually close the cai'ity; in some cases, how'ever, the cavity docs not completely close, but contracts into a narrow' canal,, foi-ming a sinus or fistula (p. 158). Diffuse Abscess foi-ms rapidly in the areolar tissue, as the result of diffuse inflammation. There is no limiting fibrine, and hence the jais often spreads w'idely, iiroducing extensive destruction of parts before it is discoi'ered. A particular variety of this form of abscess is the Pimyeral, occurring in women after parturition in various parts of the body, especially in the iliac fossa, in