LOCAL SIGN'S. 115 3. Modification of Sensibility.—There is in inflammation always more or less pain, which is due partly to increased sensibility of the ner\'es, but chiefly to the pressure exercised on their terminal branches by the dilated blood-vessels, and by the exudatory matters. In inflammation of organs of special sense, instead of actual pain there may be some alteration in the special nervous sensibility of the diseased organ. When the eye is inflamed, subjective flashes of light may be seen ; when the ear is diseased, there may be noises of various kinds. In inflammation of the bladder, there is a constant desire to expel m-ine ; and in inflammation of the rectum, there are frequent attempts at defaecatiou. In the latter instances, however, there is often an undue irritabihty of the nerves of the affected parts rather than mere pain. Pain is one of the most prominent symptoms of inflammation, and its existence serves an useful purpose by preventing the patient from using oi* moM’ng the inflamed part. The intensity of the pain depends more upon the structure affected than on the violence of the inflammation, being, as a general rule, greater in proj)ortion as the tissue affected is incapable of yielding to the pressmn exercised on it by the dilated vessels and the effused matters. Hence, in general, the intensity of the pain is in the inverse ratio of the sveUing of the part. Thus, the pain of inflamed bone or fibrous tissue is excessive ; that of areolar membrane trifling. In erysipelas of the scalp, most pain is expeiienced in the ears ; the pain of an inflamed sclerotic is far greater t an that of a conjunctiva similarly affected. In some forms of inflammation pain can scarcely be said to exist, though the disease may assume the most estmctive fonn. Thus, in certain inflammatory affections of the throat and ot the pentoneum, there is little or no pain. The character of pain varies according to the seat of inflammation. When umcous membranes suffer, it is often of an itcHng or burning character, as in conjnnctnitis ; when the serous membranes of the chest or abdomen are at- stabbing ; aching in osteitis ; throbbing when pus is nmf testis or the kidney is affected. Inflam- TsST '' ’■ principally produced by p essme, the part is said to be tender. This tenderness is of great service tlic‘mrt“nrir be elicited by direct pressine upon ' together'ns in ^ squeezing an inflamed testis, or by pressing two sinfaces ■m^filnnns f biflammatory pain, especiaUy of osseous Z TT; r '' nocturnal exacerbation milyZ thfnZ^^^^^^ inflammatory pain is often seated not } part affected, but radiates extensively along the course nf ilio. ?"« above its novo.al