VISCERAL SYPHILIS. 871 as Tolm Hunter, and the syphilographors of the early part of this century make no mention of it. To Dittrich, Lanccreaux, AVilks, Bristowe, and Moxon we arc indebted to the establishment of the fact that, after external manifesta- tions of syphilis have in a great measure, if not entirely, disappeared, and the disease has entered its tertiary stage, gummata may form in most, if not m all, the intcnial organs, producing serious functional disturbance, and leading to organic changes of the most extensive, deep-seated, and fatal character. H may now be taken as a fact, incontestably established by niunerons patho- logical observations, that there are few, if any, organs that escape the ravages of*syiihilis ; and although there may be a doubt whether some of the forms of disease met with in certain organs, as the liver, lungs, and spleen, and described us syphilitic, may not in reality be due to non-specific disease, to which, as well as to syphilis, they are common, there can be no doubt of the fact, as Moxon has pointed out, that when gummata are met with in internal organs the fact of the syphilitic nature of the disease is established. In the heart, syiihilitic deposits have been found on the endocardium, less fi'equently in the valves ; and two forms of myo-carditis of syphilitic origin— one circumscribed, the other diffuse—have been described by Lancereaux. The arteries are very apt to undergo syphilitic degeneration, according to the same author, those of the neck and head more especially. But in any portion of the arterial system fibroid deposits of syphilitic origin may be met with, leading by their degeneration to anemlsm. These syphilitic arterial deposits must not be confounded with ordinary atheroma. They may occur either as infiltrations into the coats, or as deposits of semi-opaque plastic matter in the lining membrane of the vessels. The lungs, livei', and spleen are all liable to syphilitic deposits. As a general rule, they may affect two forms—occurring either as gummata or as diffuse interstitial deposit, which in the liver may simulate cin-hosis, and in the lungs some of the forms of “ fibroid phthisis.” These syphilitic visceral diseases not unfrequently rmi a fatal com-se : rarely, however, destroying the patient before the age of 3o (Wilks). The diagnosis of the specific nature of the affection must always be open to doubt, except in those cases in which the history of the infection has been continuous, and some of the more superficial and easily recognisable syphilitic affections are associated with the visceral forms of the disease. So fin as treatment is concerned, there is little hope from any remedies except the mercurial. 11. There is no more distressing form of syphilitic disease than that which affects the Nervous System. The brain, the spinal cord, and their meninges are all liable to this invasion ; but we have no evidence as yet that the substance or the neurilemma of individual nerves may become the seat of the disease, although that such may be the case is in the highest degree probable. Syphilitic disease of the nervous system may occur at all ages. It is common in young men. I have often seen it under or about the age of 25 to SO. It is the common cause of paralysis in early manhood. The paralytic condition, which is one of its earliest manifestations, is very commonly developed by some slight accident a fall upon or a strain of the back, or by over-exertion in walking, riding, or running. The primary syphilitic disease has often been .slight the sccondaiy symptoms trivial; and indeed, no great importance may