REDUCTIOF of dislocated shoulder-joint. 481 easiest procedure in ordinary cases. In adopting this plan, the patient is laid upon his back upon a low bed or conch, or even on the ground ; the burgeon, seating himself upon the edge of this on the same side as the dislocated arm, takes the limb by the wi-ist, and, fixing one foot firmly upon the gTonnd, places tire other, covered merely Avith the stocking, Avell up into the axilla, so that the heel may press against the loAver border of the scapula, and the foot act upon the humerus (Fig. 213). tie then draAVS the limb steadily doAvnAvards, and,^ when it is disengaged to a sufiiciout extent, brings the hand across the front of the patient, the foot acting as a fulcrum, by Avhich the head of the bone may be reduced by being pushed ujiAvards and outwards. This mode of reduction is especially sei’A'iccable in ordinary dislocations into the axilla, and in those under the claA-icle. In the latter, however, it ahU be necessary to draw the aimi more obhc^rrely doAA'nAA’ards and backAA''ards, and to press the foot someAAhat foi’AA aids upon the head of the bone, after it has been disengaged by being brought below the coracoid process. 2. The reduction hj the hiee in the axilla is precisely the same in principle as the last, though not by any means so good a plan ; the knee being too large, and not foUoAving the movements of the humerus so readily as the foot. In effecting the reduction by this means, the patient is seated on a chair ; and the Siu-geon, standing by his side and resting one foot upon the chair, places his knee in the patient’s axilla. He then seizes the patient’s arm aboA’e the elbow Avith his right hand, and, steadying the acromion A\dth his left, draws the limb well away from the body and then depresses it across the knee : the head of the bone is thus reduced. 3. In some cases reduction is easily effected by laying the patient on his back, when the Surgeon, sitting behind him, raises the arm Rej'penclkularly by the side of the head, at the same time fixing the acromion. The head of the bone is thus brought directly upwards into the glenoid cavity. If the patient be very muscular, or the dislocation of old standing, it may be neeessary to have recomse to the pulleys in order to effect reduction. In applying these the scapula must be firmly fixed, the counter-extension being made by passing the patient’s arm through a slit iu the middle of a jack-toAvel, which should be fixed fii’inly to a hook or staple in the wall. The extending force may then be applied immediately aboA'e the elboAV ; and faction being- made slowly and steadily in the direction of the axis of the limb. The head of the bone should be directed to the glenoid caAuty by the pressiu’e of the Surgeon’s hands, so soon as it has come on a level with it. In this way dislo- cations of the humerus of many weeks’ or eA'en months’ standing have been successfully reduced ; but iu employing those powerful means, especially under the influence of chloroform, the Surgeon should always bear iji mind that, unless care be taken, serious mischief, eA'en laceration of the axillary artery, may result (pp. 4G5, 4GG, 482, 483). After dislocation of the humerus has been reduced, the limb should be firmly fixed to the side for at least tAVO Aveeks. It may then be put iu a sling for another fortnight: and, at the end of a month, passive motion, vuth friction, may be employed. If inflammation occur about the joint, recourse may be had to leeches and evaporating lotions. After reduction, there is a tendency for the head of the bone to be draAva,