EFFECT ON THE MENTAL POWERS. 52: the bladder requires to be emptied; there may, however, though rarely, be retention. The Mental state is equally peculiar. In-itability of mind ]S the prevail- ing characteristic. The patient is unconscious, takes no heed of what passes,^ uiiless called to in a loud tone of voice, when he shows signs of instability of temper or frowns, turns away hastily, mutters indistinctly, and grinds his teeth. It appears as if the temper, as much as or more than the intellect, were affected in this condition. He sleeps without stertor. The course taken by these symptoms is as follows. After a period varying fr-om one week to three, the pulse improves in tone, the tempcratui-e of the body increases, the tendency to flexion subsides, and the patient lies stretched out. The mental state also changes. Irritabihty gives way to fatuity ; there is less manifestation of temper, but more of weakness of mind. Eecovery is slow, but, though delayed, may at length be perfect; although in these, as in all other cases of cerebral disturbance, ulterior consequences may be manifested. This form of cerebral disturbance may, fr'om the peculiar irritability that characterises it, be with propriety termed cerebral irritation. The symptoms that have just been described usually follow blows upon the temple or forehead, and probably in many cases may arise from, or are associated with, lacerations of the cerebral substance, more especially of the grey matter. Contusion of the Beain.—The substance of the brain may be contused or lacerated by blows upon the head. This is most common at or under the seat of ill] my, or it may occur as the result of contrecoiip, at an opposite point in the same, or even in the opposite cerebral hemisphere. Being struck on the right side of the head, the patient may suffer from contusion of the opposite part of the left hemisphere, or vice versd, or a blow on the occiput may occasion laceration of the anterior part of both lateral lobes. In this injury of the cerebral substance, we have many of the symptoms that are characteristic of cerebral imtation ; but in addition to them there is occasionally more or less coma, in consequence of extravasation of blood, or there may be paralysis, facial or hemiplegic. In other circumstances, or possibly associated with these con- ditions, there may be convulsive movements more or less epileptiform in character. These may be confined to the face, may extend to the paralysed limbs, or may occupy both sides of the body. The Prognosis in these cases is serious, but by no means necessarily fatal. In fact, in the majority of instances, recovery ensues. Effects of Cerebral Injury on the Mental Powers.^—The mental con- dition of patients who arc recoi'cring or who are supposed to have recovered from head-injury, is one that deserves attentive consideration. It will fre- quently be found that the mental powers ai’e weakened, cither generally or in one special direction. The memory may be impaired for Avords, persons, or dates. The mind cannot grasp a subject or carry out a continuous train of thought, aud is incapable of fixed attention or reasoning. Delusions of A'arious kinds may occm, especially in connexion Avith the mode of occurrence of the accident. I have knoAvn a patient to give the most consistent and detailed accounts of the mode in Avhich his head Avas injured, varying them from day