469 CONGENITAL DISLOCATIONS. tion of slight force, or at will on the patient throwing the muscles of the limb Thf of those cases is not very satishictory. lleduction in many cannot be accomplished ; while in others it maybe effected readily enough, but the bone cannot be fixed in the joint out of which it slips again. In a case m Bpontaneous dislocation of the hip, without any apparent disease of the joint, occiiiTing in a young woman, I readily effected reduction by the pulleys, three weeks after the occiuTcnce of the displacement. The limb was then fixec with the long splint, and maintained at a proper length for two or three weeks ; when in consequence of a sevei'e bronchitic attack, it became necessary to romoTo the appaivatus, and the displacement speedily returned. Whilst conyalescent from this attack, the patient feU and fractured the displaced femur in its upper third, thus rendering it impossible to replace^ the bone. In another case of spontaneous dislocation of the knee, occurring in the same painless maimer, the joint could not be replaced, and permanent deformity was loft. After reduction in similar cases, a splint or a starched bandage should be Avorn for a considerable length of time, so as to give a chance for the hgaments I of the joint to recover themselves. If there be a rheumatic tendency, it should be romoA'ed by suitable treatment; and if there be a paralytic condition of the muscles, electricity, the endermic application or hypodermic injection of stiychiiine, and cold douches vuth friction, may be advantageously employed. CoxGEXiTAL Dislocations are occasionally met with in the hip, shoulder, vi’ist, and jaw, and have of late years attracted the attention of Surgeons through the laboms of Gu6rin, Smith, Ohelius, Eobert, and others. These dislocations are closely allied in cause and nature Avith other congenital deformities of the limbs, such as club-foot, &c. In them there is usually found aiTested or imperfect development of some portions of the osseous articular ap- paratus. Whether this is original, thus causing the displacement of the bones, or consecutive upon disuse, occasioned by spasmodic action of one set of muscles or by paralysis of another, dependent on some inltation in the nervous centres, is scarcely Avorth inquiring here. In some cases it would aj>pear as if faulty position of the foetus in utero, or undue violence dining birth, may have occasioned the displacement. These dislocations are probably incurable, as there is alAA'ays congenital defect of structine in the articular ends of the bones, or of the socket into which they are received. There is a peculiar form of dislocation which I have once, and only once, : met Avith in a child, otherAvisc perfectly healthy, 12 years of age, and Avhich I had some resemblance to the congenital form. It Avas a dislocation of the head of the radius backwards, in consequence of Avant of development of the lower third of the ulna. In this case the radius Avas nearly two inches longer than the ulna. The want of development in the latter bone prevented the I proper growth of the forearm ; and the radius consequently, after having become slightly ciuwed, liecame sloAvly, but completely, dislocated at its humeral end. All the movements of the bone, hoAvever, Avere perfect.