549 TREATMENT OF DEPRESSED FRACTURE. dangerous, arc not necessarily fatal. In militaiy jn-actice it has often hap- pened that, as the result of sabre-ents, portions of the skull have been sliced or split down, the subjacent membranes and the brain itself being Avounded, and yet a good recovery has resulted ; and I have had several cases under my own care in Avhich, though the dura mater has been punctured by spicula of depressed fractures, and portions of brain lost, the patients have made good recoveries. The Treatment of a depressed and comminuted fractiu-e of the skull varies not only according to the nature and extent of the accident, but also to the existence or absence of symptoms of compression of the brain. If there be no Avoimd in the scalp, but the occurrence of symptoms of com- pression and the existence of some irregularity of the skull at the seat of injury lead the Simgeon to suspect a depressed fracture, he should make a crucial or T-shaped incision down upon the part in order to examine the bone ; and, if this be found depressed, he should elevate or remove it. If the scalp be ah-eady wounded, all that need be done to ascertain the natiu-e of the fr’acture, is to pass the finger very gently into the Avound and thus examine the bone. If any fr’ag- ments be found lying loose, they should be jneked out, as they can only excite injimious uTitation ; any bone that is driA'en below its level must be raised, and, if completely detached, removed. In order to raise these depressed portions of bone, it is in many cases merely necessary to introduce the point of an elevator underneath the fragment, and, using the instrument as a lever, raise it into position (Fig. 247). If there be not an aj)ertm’e suffi- ciently laige foi the introduction of the elevator, one may be made by saAAung Fig. 247.—Apxilication of Elevator. Fig. 249.—Aiiplicatiou of Cranial Saw. “'ircnieiit spot by means of a Hoy’s oi- cranual 248,249), or clipping off' a projecting point with the bonVforcepr In tWs