778 TUMOURS. described a process of Vcaciw^ or endogenous cell-formation, to wliicli he attributes the multiplication of the cells not only of cancer, but of sarcoma and m his opinion the original cells of the cancer are formed from the pre- cxistnig epithehum-cells of the part by this process. The stroma of cancer is in the vast majority of cases formed of fibrous tissue, throughout which we have cells, of the ordinary connective tissue type, scattered more or less abun- dantly, In rapidly growing cancers there may be numerous spindle-cells scat- tered amongst the fibres, or in some rare cases the whole stroma may be composed of spindle-cells, its structure then resembling that of a sarcoma. The alveolar arranpment is well marked in every scirrhous and cncephaloid cancer ; in epithelioma it is not feo clear, but still the same type is maintained, that is to say, the cells are arranged in groups in immediate contact vdth each other, and the groups separated by fibrous or fibroid tissue, bearing vessels. The stroma of a cancer is often loaded with fat-granules in the degenerating parts of the tumoiu’, but it very rarely undergoes calcification. It has been much disputed in former times whether the stroma of the cancer belongs to the tumour or merely represents the remnants of pre-existing tissues invaded by the tnmoiu’. There can be no doubt that the stroma is developed by an nimatiu'al growth of the pre-existing connective tissues, just as much as the ' cells arc supposed to be developed by an abnormal process of gi’owth taking place in the pre-existing ■ epithelium, but in no cancer is any structure which could be said to be a mere remnant of the pre-existing tissues, ever found in the fully developed parts of the tumoiu’. The stroma deviates as much as the cells fr'om the normal structure of the affected part. The Uood-vessels ol cancer are very abundant, especially in cncephaloid, in which the stroma may chiefly consist of vessels, the fibrous tissue being comparatively small in nmount. These vessels frequently are so abundant as to give the whole tumom* u, distinct sense of pulsation. In some cases they show curious bud-hke pro- cesses and dilatations projecting from their walls. That cancerous tumoiu’s are in intimate coimection with the hjmiohatics of the j^arts in which they gTow, no one can doubt, but the exact nature of this connection is not yet accurately made out. It has been asserted by Kdster, of Wiii-zburg, that the cancer cells actually lie in Ijnnphatic spaces. Cornil and Eamder state that there arc abundant lymph-spaces opening directly into the alveolar spaces in which the cancer-ceUs are lying. Either view, if proved, would fully account for the extraordinary readiness with which cancer infects the system through the lymphatics. Much diversity of opinion formerly existed amongst Singeons as to the value that should be attached to these microscopic signs in determining the true natme of many tumoiu’s ; some being guided by these appearances alone, ethers looking upon them as luicertain and fallacious, and trusting rather to the general characters of the growth. The latter, however, appears to me to be too limited a view of the siteject; for, although the unaided eye of an ■experienced Sm’geon may in many cases recognise the true chai’acter of a tumoin, and the microscope in some few instances fail to afford much ad- ditional information, yet there can be no doubt that in most cases it is only by the aid of this instrument that the real nature of the growth can be absolutely determined.