AltliEST OF AUTEUIAL HjEUOUUIIAGE. 300 1, by the use ot metallic compressors, the needle and wire being tolerated by the tissues amongst which they lie, and not acting as setons in the way that liempen or silken ligatm'es do ; and 2, by the early withdrawal of these com- pressing agents, the vitality of the artery not being endangered and no terminal slough resulting. That these arguments are sound, it is impossible to deny. Tlae principle on which acupressiu’e is founded is in accordance with the fundamental doctrines of surgical pathology, and must commend itself to every practical Surgeon Avho dispassionately considers this important question. But, whilst I admit to the fullest the truth and pathological somidness of the principle on which acupressiu’e is founded, and whilst I cannot but regard any method of treatment which faeditates the early healing of operation- Avoimds, Avithout suppurative action, as a gi’eat step in advance of sm’gical practice, I cannot but think that, in estimating the comparative value of the Ligatiu’e and of Acupressm’e in the arrest of sm’gical htemoiThage, too much ‘ CAul has been laid to the charge of the thread, and too much advantage has been claimed for the needle. If the Hgature Avere the sole or indeed the great cause of suppimation in wounds, and of the failure of union by the first intention, it should im- doubtedly be discarded in favoiu’ of any safe method that would obAiate these evils. But is the ligatm’e in reality so injurious ? Are there not many causes of want of union by the first intention which are entirely independent of the method adopted for occluding the arteries ? The constitutional condition of the patient, irrespective of anything in the local management of the AA’ound (p. 5), as well as the want of homogeneity of tissue (p. 173), and the very nature of the wound itself, have a most decided infiuence. In many wounds— as in operations for the removal of dead bone, the excision of bones and joints, the ablation of many tiunoms, &c.,—no attempt at union by the first intention is made ; the wound is stuifed perhaps Avith lint, or the tissues are in such a condition that suppuration is a necessity for healing. So, again, in amputations (p. 4G), there are many circumstances that militate against complete primary union, and ahvays must do so. Amongst these may be mentioned the impossibihty of close approximation of the flaps, OAving to the intravention of the bone ; or, in some amputations, as the partial ones of the foot, the very shape of the flap, and the irregularity of the osseous sm-faces; the inability of cohesion between ahen tissues, as bone or synovial membrane and muscle, &c. In some cases, midoubtedly, where many or deep ligatmes have to be applied, the threads add to the difficulty in effecting direct union. But in many amputations it must be remembered that the chief and perhaps the only ligatm-es are applied to vessels that, being cut long, are on a level Avith the edge of the flap. This is the case in amputation of the forearm, and at the shoulder, hip, and knee, in amputations of the leg low doAAm, and m all ampu- tations done by the long flap. In such cases, acupressiu’e Avould do little to aid in accomplishing direct union. Although, thei’efore, I do not consider that the ligature is in piactice opeu to the objection which has been laid to its charge, that it is the chief obstacle to the union of Avounds by the first intention, yet undoubtedly it is m many instances a hindrance to this desirable result; and, when so, it ceitainly appeal’s