468 DISLOCATIONS. effected. Ihc extending means should always be applied upon the splints, so that thcie may be no draggmg upon the Iracturc. In this way I have reduced, nithout any difficulty, a dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla, compheated with comminuted fractime of the shaft of the bone, in a remark- ably muscular man to whom I was called by Byam ; and about the same time I had undei my care at the Hospital a case of dislocated elbow, Avith fracture of the shaft of the humerus, that was reduced Avith ease in the same Avay. The difficulty in reduction is necessarily increased by the proximity of the fracture to the dislocated joint; and Avhen the epiphysis is broken off from the shaft and dislocated, the difficulty may be great, but is not insuperable. Some year's since, I assisted H. Smith and Dumi in the reduction of a dislocation of the humerus Avith fractm-e of the sm-gical neck of the bone, the displaced head lying to the inner side of the coracoid process. In this case the patient, a young man who had sustained the injin-y by a fall in an epileptic fit, Avas put under chloroform, and when he Avas fully anarsthetised the displaced head of the bone was easily replaced; the patient recovering with an excellent and useful arm. After the bone has been reduced, the fracture should be treated in the ordinary way. When a Simple Fracture extends into the Articular End of the Eone, as in some dislocations about the elbow and ankle, there is no material increase in the danger of the case or in the difficulty of its management. In Compound Dislocation "with Fracture of the Articular Ends, removal of splmters, and partial resection or amputation, will be required, according to the seat and extent of injiuy. Spontai^eous Dislocations may occur either suddenly or gradually, accord- ing to the nature of the cause that gives rise to them. Sjjontaneous dislocation, if that term can be properly applied to such cases, is often met Avith on the hip as the result of old disease. The ligamentous and cartilaginous structiu'es having become destroyed, the head of the bone atrophied and absorbed, the articular sm-faces become readily displaced imder the influence of slight muscular action. There is, however, a second and more rare form of spontaneous dislocation to which the hip and shoulder are liable, and which has been especially studied by Stanley. In this dislocation the head of the bone slips out of the arti- culation AAuthout any very marked sign of disease about the joint, and ceitainly Avithout any previous destruction of it. In these cases there is either a paralytic condition of the capsular muscles, as has been observed several times in the shoulder, the deltoid having become paralysed and thus having allowed the bone to shp out of place ; or, as has been noticed in the hip, olscure rheumatic or neuralgic pains have for some time been seated in the joint. The dislocation may not be confined to one joint, but may affect several. Thus, some time ago there was a case in University College Hospital, in which both shouldeis and hips were dislocated simultaneously. In many cases it occurs suddenly, and often without any pain, the deformity of the limb attracting attention ; though in others it has been preceded by rheumatic affection of the joint. _ There is a third vai'iety of spontaneous dislocation, in aaInch, the joint havung been dislocated and reduced, the muscular and ligamentous structures have become so weakened that ever afterwards it slips out of place on t e app ica-