849 TREATMENT OF PRIMARY SYPHILIS. probably this is generally true ; though the patient often escapes all subsequent symptoms, except a few spots on the skin and sore throat, especially when treatment is early employed. Indolent Enlargement of the Lymphatic Glands. The so-called mcMmt „ hul)o is the next change to follow induration of the point of contagion, which it accompanies or very closely succeeds. One gland enlarges first, and several follow ; the glands remain painless or only very slightly tender; the skin over them retains its natural colour and suppleness, and there is no doughy thickness, as in the acute suppurating bubo. In this state the glands, nevertheless, not unfre- quently suppurate, and an abscess forms around them. This accident is generally set up by violent exertion, such as dancing, riding, and the like ; but it has no special significance—it never yields a specific inoculable pus like the virulent bubo of the local chancre. The anatomical change in the glands themselves consists in congestion and the deposit of iiTegular fibro-plastic lymph, which produces their increased size. If the point of contagion be seated near the middle line, at the frmnum for instance, the glands in both groins are often enlarged. In weakly persons, the glands throughout the body become enlarged ; those at the back of the neck, especially, are very commonly enlarged dining the time of the eruption on the skin, and those of the axilla and other parts are sometimes included in the enlargement. This condition of the glands is accom- panied by a great increase in the proportion of colourless coi’puscles in the blood ; but both these alterations of the lymphatic system are temporary, and disappear spontaneously in a short time. Tbeatmeot.—Local Treatment, while of much value in the non-syphilitic venereal sore, is of little or no avail in the disease now under consideration; the causes of the local manifestations being beyond the reach of any direct application. The treatment must be directed to the neutralisation of the action of the poison, and its removal from the constitution, by remedies given so as to act generally on the system. The Constitutional Treatment of primary syphilis has undergone various changes according to the prevailing doctrine of the day. It had been decided by the Singeons of the last and early part of this century, that mercury acted as a specific against the syphilitic poison. This doctrine was so firmly established, that Hunter, and many of the great Surgeons of his school, looked on the curability of a sore without mercury as a proof that it was not syphilitic. About the commencement of this centmy, however, it was found by obser- vations of the Aimy-Surgeons, amongst whom Rose took a principal share in the inquiry, that the different forms of venereal ulcer, no distinction being then drawn between the local non-infecting sores and the ulcers which resulted fiom the contagion of the constitutional disease, were ciuable without the necessity of administering mercury, or indeed of having recourse to any specific treatment whatever. These observations, which appear to be founded on what was witnessed in bpain and Portugal dining the Peninsular War, led to the introduction of an important modification in the treatment of venereal sores ; viz., the non-mer- curial or stmph plan, as it is termed ; a mode of practice that obtained great VOL. I. 3 I