TREATMENT OF P1ILEG2I0N0US ERYEIFELAS. 699 In the Treatment of Cellulo-cntaneous Erysipelas, more energetic constitutional and local means are required. In the early stage, our object is to i)revent the inflammation from running into gangi-eue of the affected tissue. The fever being at this iDeriod commonly sthenic, the more active administra- tion of purgati’^'es, antimonials, or effervescent salines is required. I have never seen a case in which blood-letting was required; and depressing remedies, such as salines, should be giA'en vith great caution. Medicinal tonics and dietetic stimulants require to be given early and late. As the disease advances, and symptoms of more or less depression come on, it may be neces- sary to effect that gradual change to a more stimulating plan of treatment, which has already been described in speaking of the management of inflam- matory fever. In doing this, the pulse and the tongue must be our guides ; as the one becomes feebler and the other browner, so must ammonia, bark, and especially port wine, and the brandy-and-egg mixture, be administered. In the more ad’^'anced stages of the disease, when sloughing and suppimation are fully established, oiu’ sole object must be by nourishing diet, and the use of stimidants and tonics, more particularly the tinctime of perchloride of hon, to bear* the patient through the depression and subsequent hectic. The Local Treatment of cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous erysipelas must be conducted on essentially the same plan as that of the cutaneous variety, though with more active means. The part affected must be kept at rest, must be elevated if it be a limb, and ha‘\'e hot chamomile and poppy fomentations assiduously applied, cold being more prejudicial here even than in the form of the disease last described ; in this way, the SAvelling and tension may perhaps be removed, and the sloughing of the areolar tissue prevented. In the majority of cases, however, other means will be required to effect this, and with this view none are more efficacious than incisions made into the part; by these an outlet is afforded for the blood and effused serum, Avhich, by distending the vessels and cells of the part, produce strangulation of the tissues and conse- quent sloughing. This mode of practice, originally introduced by Mr. C. Hutchinson, is generally allowed to be the most effectual means Ave possess for ])revention of sloughing ; hence the incisions should be made early, before there has been time for the tissues to lose their vitality. So soon, indeed, as they have become bravmy, indurated, and tense, incisions properly made and placed AviU afford the greatest possible relief to the part and the patient, taking- down the tension by the gaping, and the swelling by the exit they afford to blood and serum. Much difference of opinion has existed among Surgeons, as to the extent to Avhich incisions should be practised in these cases; some recommending that one long cut should be made through the inflamed struc- tmes ; others contending, on the contrary, that a number of small incisions cttei a,nsAver che proposed end. The objections to the long incision are, that so considerable a Avound not only inflicts a serious shock to the system, but that the loss of blood from it may be so groat as to be fatal—cases haAing occuiTed m which life has been lost from this cause, or the hmmorrhage has ligature of the main artery of the limb ; and also ofTmnlW I’clicve tension so effectually as a number extent preventive incisions consequently should be of limited two to three inches 111 length .- at most they should not extend