DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 475 ail axilliuypad, and the same method of treatment as in fracture of the clavicle (Fia'. 158). .. In every movement of the body or neck there will be found to be a tendency to rising upwards of the end of the dislocated bone, and in the majority ot cases this will be insurmountable by any mechanical means that can be employed. It is best limited, if not oliviated, by a pad and gutta-percha plate laid on the projeeting clavicle, and strapped tightly down by a band passing parallel to the arm and under the flexed fore-arm, this being retained in position by being attached to a strap passed round the opposite axilla. t the displacement continue to be irremediaiilc, a I'ery useful arm will still be left, only somewhat limited in its upward movements. The outer end of the clavicle has been dislocated under the Acromion by the application of direct violence to the end of the bone. This form of displace- ment is very rare ; several instances' have, however, been mentioned in the journals. The diagnosis is easy, simple digital examination pointing out the nature of the accident; and the treatment must be conducted in the same way as that of fractm-ed clavicle. The acromial end of the clavicle has been 'knoAvn to be displaced under- neath the Coracoid Process. Here, also, simple examination and the clavicular bandage suffice for diagnosis and treatment. The only instances of Simultaneous Dislocation of both ends of the Clavicle with which I am acquainted have been reported by Richerand and ^Jlorel LavaUee. Dislocation of the Scapula.—The Lower Angle and Dorsal Border of the scapula is occasionally the seat of a very remarkable kind of displacement, in consequence of which it projects at a considerable angle from the trunk, giving a winged appearance to the back. The cause of this peculiar displacement is obsciu'e : by some it is considered to be dependent upon the bone slipping away from under the posterior edge of the iatissimus dorsi muscle ; by others, and apparently with more reason, it is regarded as owmg to paralysis of the serratus magnus. Whether this be dependent upon some morbid condition of the muscle itself, as Jacob supposes, or on a paralysed state of the long thoracic nerve, as Xclaton thinks, can scarcely be determined. In such cases as these, I have seen some benefit derived from the endermic application of strychnine on a blistered surface, and afterwards support by means of a properly con- structed apparatus. Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint occur far more frequently than those of any other articulation. Their pathology and treatment have been so clearly elucidated by Sir A. Cooper, that there is little left for subsequent writers but to follow the descriptions given by that great Surgeon ; though several of the modern French Surgeons, especially Velpeau, Malgaigne, and Goyrand, have thrown some new light on the subject. The reason of the frequency of these dislocations is to be found in the shallowness of the glenoid cavity, the large size and roimded shape of the head of the humerus, and the weakness of the ligaments; Imt, above all, in the extent and force of the movements to Avhich the joint is subjected. These displacements indeed would be much more fre- quent than they even are, were it not for the protection afforded to the joint by the osseous and ligamentous arch formed by the coracoid process and acromion