FRACTURES. 374 importance occasionally arises in comicction witli gangrene of the limlj after simple fracture. It is this—is the gangTcne owing to over-tight and conse- quently negligent bandaging by the Surgeon, or to passive strangulation by inllammatory swelling of the limb under bandages not originally too tightly applied ? The diagnosis of the two conditions on which the answer is depen- dent is as follows. 1. When a bandage has been originally too tightl\' applied, the patient Avill suffer severely for several hours, the pain being felt inmiediately after the application of the apparatus. On loosening the bandage, the pain ceases. When removed, if gangrene have set in, the skin will be found pale where the roller has been applied—the limb being compressed and small at this part—marked wth imprints at the edges of the turns of the bandage, Avhilst it is greatly swollen and congested at the fingers or toes beyond the bandage ; these parts being also cold, pm-ple, and vesicated. 2. AYhen the strangulation occiu’s from spontaneous inflammatory SAvelhng of the limb, the whole member is equally swollen; it is red and blue, hot in parts, cold and sphacelated in others. It does never become uniformly gangrenous, but deep infiltrating abscess, and localised sphacelus, form. Treatment.—When a bandage or apparatus appears to be exerting luidue, painful, or dangerous pressure, it must at once be removed. Should the cir- culation of the limb have been interfered with, friction Avith camphorated oil in an upward direction should be employed. If gangrene have mihappily aheady occurred, the treatment will depend on the cause, and the conditions of the limb. If the gangrene be the result of self-strangulation of the limb, by its sweUiug up under the bandage, and it be found to be red, swollen, and infiltrated, free incisions should be made, and the limb enveloped in hot fomentations. If, notwithstanding this, abscesses form, ■with deep infiltration of the cellular tissue, and sloughing of the skin and muscles, the choice lies between amputation and the preservation of a limb that ■wiU be ■vnthered, contracted, and useless. If the gangrene be the result of direct strangulation of an o'\ er-tight bandage, as in Fig., 145, there is no resom-ce left but amputation above the seat of constriction. In fr’actiu-es of the lower extremity occiuTing in old people, there is a great tendency to Pulmonary and Cerebral Congestion, partly from detcimina- tion of blood, and partly as a consequence of the long confinement required : these fr-actures commonly prove fatal in this way. The use of the starched bandage, by enabling the patient to move about, is the most effectual preven- tive of these accidents. _ . CojVIPLICATED Feactubes.—Fractines may be complicated mth various important local conditions. Extravasation of blood into the limb, fr-om a wound of some large vessel, may go on to so great an extent as to occasion . strangmlation of the tissues; if not checked by position and cold applications, it may give rise to gangrene, and demand amputation. In other cases, again, the soft parts in the vicinity of the fractm-e may be contused to such a degree that they rapidly run into slough, thus rendering it compound; or a wound may exist, not communicating with the broken bone, but requiring muc i ^ modification of treatment, and special adaptation of apparatus. ^ 1 One of the most serious complications of a simple fractinc is undoubtedly j I