TREATMENT OF UNUNITED FRACTURE. 391 this vessel. He states that the portion of bone below the entrance of the nutritions arteiy, or on that side of the foramen towards which the blood flows, beins deprived its proper vascnlar supply, undergoes certain changes ; the medifllaiy canal becoming expanded and the osseous tissue less dense. Gueretin has collected cases that tend to prove the direct connection between the occiu’- rence of nnnnited fractime, and the want of proper arterial supply to one of the fragments. Thus, in the humerus the course of the nutritious artery is ft'07n above downwards ; and of thirteen cases of nnunited fractm-e, nine were found to be situated above the canal in which the vessel is lodged. In the fore-arm, Avhere the nutritions artery passes from below upwards, of eight cases of uuunited ft’acture, seven occurred below this vessel, and only one above. Adams, has, however, shown that the number and size, as well as position, of the nutrient arteries, vary considerably ; and hence the objection that non-union may occur in a fracture of any part of the shaft of a long bone. whereas the nutritions artery is only found at one spot, can scarcely be con- sidered a veiy '^'alid one. Smne lones are mticJi more Halle than others to disunion of their fractures. According to the statistics collected by Horris, it would appear that the femm-, the humerus, the bones of the leg, and of the forearm, and lastly the lower jaw, are those in which imunited fractures most frequently occiu’, and that in the order which has been given. Hamilton states that in his experience the humeiTis is more commonly the seat of an ununited fracture than the femur ; and my experience agrees with his. One cause that may operate in leading to want of union in a fracture is the application of a landage directly and too tightly to the hmb. When this is done, the vasciflar supply to the broken bone is strangled, the muscles and soft textmes want nutrition, and consequently, a fortiori, reparative actions are inter- fered with, and callus is not formed of proper consistence or in sufficient quan- tity for consohdation of the fracture. The occmnence of imunited fractine is occasionally attributed to the molility or v:ant of pn'cper ccpposition of the fragments which are so situated that, instead of the broken surfaces being in contact, rotation of the limb has caused the outer and periosteal aspects to touch. Doubtless, in some cases, it may be so occasioned ; but I believe that these causes are not nearly so frequent in their operation as the constitutional and local conditions that have afready been pointed out. The interposition of apiece of muscle between the fragments may prei ent union. Of this I saw an interesting instance some years ago, in which Mant of union in a fractured femur was oiving to the perforation of the vastus muscle by the upper fragment, and its entanglement betiveen the broken ends, hut it is very certain that, to whatever condition, local or constitutional, non- xmion of a fracture may be due, it is in very many cases quite impossible to assi.gn to it any cause appreciable by the Simgeon. 1 he Treatment of nnunited fracture must not be conducted by local means only; constitutional measures should not be neglected. We cannot expect the formation of firm and strong callus unless the general health be in a satisfactory state. If callus have not been formed, or if; after formation, it have lieen absorbed under the influence of a cachectic state of the system, the improvement of the patient’s health, at the same time that the fracture is put