492 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. some extreme degree of violence, is forced out of its bed and is tin-own back- wards on the carpus. Most frequently, this accident is the result of injury and shattering of the hand by gun-barrel or powder-flask explosions ; and in such cases the metacarpal bone of the Tliumh is the one that commonly suffers, the dislocation being also usually compound, and complicated with fracture of the holies and extensive palmar laceration. Dislocation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, however, is rare, though the articulation between this bone and the trapezium aj)pears at first not to be of a character to resist much external violence. This is probably owing in a gi-eat measure to the powerful muscles by which the bone is supported in all cases in which the force is ap- plied upon its palmar aspect, as it most frequently is, as well as to the little leverage offered by so short a bone. Luxation, however, of the metacarpal bone of the thumb has been observed to take place fonoarch as well as haclc- wards, the latter being the most common. The Reduction is in general easy, extension being made from the thumb by means of a piece of tape apphed round the fii’st phalanx. Next to the metacarpal bone of the thumb, those of the Index and Middle ringers are most liable to dislocation backwards : sometimes complete, at others incomplete. I am not acquainted with any case on record in which all the metacarpal bones have been dislocated from the carpus. The annexed engraving (Fig. 219) is from a cast in Uni- ■\'ersity College Museum, taken from a patient in the Hospital, in whom I believe that this accident must have occiu-red ; the hand being thrown forwards and shortened, and the carpal bones forming a rounded and convex prominence on the dorsum of the metacar- pus. The convex appearance of this corresponds with the outline of the carpal bones, and differs so very remarkably from the concave aspect of the lower end of the radius and uhia, as seen in the radio-carpal dis- location (Fig. 218), that I think there can be httle doubt as to the natm-e of the injiu-y sustained by the patient. The Treatment of such cases will be the same as that for ordinary dislocations of the caiqDal bones; splints of sufficient length to take in the hand being ap- plied, after reduction, in order to maintain the parts in position. Dislocations of the Metacaepo-Phalangeal Articulations are by no means of common occin-rence. They are usually produced by Ms on the hand, and are met with at all ages ; most commonly in the yoimg adult, but some- times at an earher age. I have seen this accident in a child four yeais old. Most frequently the Proximal Phalanx of the Thnmh is the bone that is dislocated, being thrown haclcivard on the metacarpal bone (Fig. 220) in such a way that the articular sin-face of the phalanx rests upon the back of the meta- cai-pal bone immediately below its head. The signs of the accident are sufficiently evident. In the normal state of the hand, the metacarpo-