512 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Compotmd Dislocation of the Knee-joint is one of the most serious injuries to whicli tlie limbs are liable ; the external wound being usually large, ragged, and accompanied by the protrusion of the condyles of the femiu’, with much laceration of the soft structures in the vicinity of the joint. These are cases that certainly, as a general rule, call imperatively for amputation ; indeed. Sir A, Cooper regards this injury as especially demanding removal of the limb. Cases, however, have occurred in which the limb has been saved. Hence, if the patient be young, and if the vessels of the ham do not appear to have been seriously injimed, the wound in the soft parts at the same time not being very extensive, nor much bruised, an attempt rnay with propriety be made to save the joint. In a case of compound dislocation of the knee forwards in a boy, A. A\Tiite sawed off the projecting end of the femur which pro- truded through the ham, and, bringing the wound together, succeeded in saving the limb. The Head of the Fibula has occasionally, though very rarely, been displaced by the application of direct violence. Boyer and Sanson have each recorded a case of this kind. One such case has ocemred to me in my prac- tice. It happened in a gentleman about 23 years of age, who, in descending glope covered with snow, fell with one leg bent forcibly under hun, so that he came down, as it were, in a sitting posture. The head of the fibula was thrown back off the articulating smface, and remained permanently in its new situation. The hmb was somewhat weakened, so that the patient coifid not jump, but otherwise he suffered no inconvenience. The tendon of the outer ham-string was very tense; and when I saw the case, some time after the accident, its traction effectually prevented all attempts at reduction. Dislocations of the Ankle occur in consequence of displacement of the astrao-alus from the bones of the leg, whilst it continues to preserve its normal connection with the rest of the foot. These dislocations are almost invanably connected with fracture of the lower end of the fibula, or of the imier mah leolus In fact, on looking at the arched cavity into which the astragalus is received it is evident that this bone can scarcely be displaced literally without fracture of one side of this arch. In considering these dislocations we must, in accordance with the general nomenclatm-e of similar accidents, in wine e distal part is always said to be displaced from the proximal, look upon the foot S beiilg dislocated from the leg, and not consider the tibia as being dispted unon the foot. The direction of the dislocation must consequently be dete Xed by the position into which the articular surface of the -traga - nens to be throivn. It is necessary to explain this, inasmuch as a good deal o iCity ocemn in surgical wi-itings from the same — 'leiug " rPffprpntlv accordino- to the view taken of the part displaced. Tims, b . differently, accoicii » ^ dislocated at the ankle ; whilst Boyer and oS JegX foot as the part displaced, have described the same injury fr-om the hones of ‘>^0 ThVhi:^; direetions, via., la £:tisted u“ patient in appeain to be oooasioned eito by h ' ’ | i„t„ ffiSmd Idy is cmried —. But these twists