TREATMENT OF SECONDARY IIjEMORRHAGE. 3°9 there is but “little time for reflection or consultation, and none for referring to authorities.” . ^ If the artery be situated on the trunk, as the subclavian, carotid, or one or the iliacs, there is nothing to be done but to trust to the plugging of the wound ; and in the great majority of these cases the patient will die exhausted by repeated hiemorrhage. "When the artery is situated in one of the limbs, more efficient procedmes may be employed. If it be one of the arteries of the upper extremity the wound should be opened up, and an attempt made to tie both ends of the vessel again in this ; should this fail, or not be practicable, the aitciy must be deligated at a higher point than that at which it had been previously tied; should the hiemorrhage continue, or be re-established, amputation is the only resoimce left. In the lower exti’emity, the treatment of secondary hjemorrhage occurring after ligatm’e is replete with difS-Culty. Here I beheve it to be useless to tie the ai'tery at a higher point than that to which the hgatime has been ah’eady applied, as gangrene is very apt to follow this double ligatm’e of the arteries of the lower extremity : at least, in the two or three cases that I have seen in which recoiu’se has been had to this practice, mortification of the hmb has ensued ; and in aU. the reported cases with which I am acquainted, a similar result has occurred. The treatment should vary according as we have the femoral ai’tery or one of the tibials to deal with. If the hemorrhage proceed from the femoral, I should be disposed to cut down on the bleeding part of the vessel, treating it aS a wounded artery, and applying a ligatm’e above and below the part already dehgated ; this operation would, however, necessarily be fraught with difficulty. Should this be impracticable, or not succeed in checking the hsemorrhage, we should best consult the safety of the patient by amputating at once on a level with or above the ligatm’e. Although this is an extreme measme, it is infinitely preferable to allowing him to nm the risk of the supeiwention of gangrene, which will require removal of the limb under less favourable conditions. If the secondary haemorrhage proceed from one of the tibials, it would be next to useless to adopt either of the preceding alternatives. If we hgatmed the superficial femoral, the bleeding would not be permanently controlled, or, if it were, gangrene of the limb would in all pro- bability set in. There are but very few cases on record in which this practice has been followed without mortification occurring. In a few rare instances, however, the hgature of the popliteal has, in such circumstances, succeeded : but it has also frequently failed, rendering secondary amputation necessary, and its^success is a mere matter of chance. The depth at which the tibials are situated is so great, that it would be hopeless to search for one of these vessels and attempt its dehgation at the bottom of a deep, sloughy, infiltrated and infiamed wound. In such circumstances, therefore, I think we should ampu- tate the leg above the seat of wound. This is truly a severe measure; but the only other alternative that has, to my knowledge, ever succeeded, is the ligature of the pophtcal; and as that, as has aheady been stated, has frequently failed, I think that, as a rule, we should best consult the safety of the patient by the removal of the limb at once. If the hsemorrhage occiu’ from a woimded artery to which ligatmes have