ASTHENIC AND IRIUTATIYE FEVER. 119 by luijmoiTliiige. The tongue cleans, the pulse lessens in frequency and in strength, the secretions become freer, the thirst diminishes, and strength and appetite return. Should the lever not take a favourable coimse, death may ensue by the occurrence of serious -s-isceral complications ; the lungs and brain being especially apt to suffer, becoming the seats of fatal inflammatory mischief; or the sthenic form of the disease may gradually merge into those types that are characterised by debility and in’itation. 2. Asthenic Inflammatory Fever principally occurs in those individuals whose constitutions arc broken by privation, dissipation, or by any of the general depressing causes of disease, as grief, anxiety, or long residence in a vitiated atmosphere. In constitutions such as these, frequently met with in all classes, but especially amongst the poorer residents in large towns, inflam- matory fever almost im-ariably assmnes a low type. There is also, in this variety of the disease, a special tendency to compheation with visceral mischief ; the lungs being peculiarly apt to become affected by a low or congestive fomi of pneumonia. The asthenic form of the disease may come on as a sequence of the sthenic •^•ariety ; the symptoms gTadually merging into those of a low foim, and being- characterised by debility rather than by strength of action ; the pulse becoming Aveaker though its fr-equency is kept up, the tongue becoming broATO and dry, Avith a tendency to the early supervention of dehrium of a muttering kind. When the fever assumes the asthenic form fr-om the very first, the period of depression is strongly marked, and often prolonged for many hours, reaction coming on gTadually and imperfectly, and alternating Avith the depression against which the system is struggling. Eaxu when fuUy estabhshed, the symptoms of the stage of reaction are not very active : there is throughout an appeai-anec of heaviness or stupor about the patient, Avith little activity of the intellectual faculties, and an early tendency to dehrium of a Ioav form, especially at night; the pulse is feeble, though quick ; the skin is either moderately hot, or else pungent and bm-ning ; the temperatm-e is fr-om 1° to 3° Fahi-. above normal ; the tongue brown and dry, Avith sordes rapidly accumulating about the lips and teeth ; the cheeks ai-e often flushed, and the eyes bright and staring. As the third stage comes on, if the patient recover, critical CA-acuations of a lifemorrhagic or dian-hoeal character apjAcar ; the pulse subsides, the tongue 4>Tadually and sloAvly cleans from the sides and tip, and the patient slowly aiid imperfectly regains his strength ; the conA'alescence being often interrupted by intcrcun-ent disease, and the poAvers of the constitution being fr-equently broken for months, or for life. If the disease take an unftiA'ourabie course, the lAcakness of pulse and the dark incrustation of the tongue increase,- the skin becomes cold ; hiccup, subsultus, dyspnoea, or coma super\'enc ; and death ocems from exhaustion, or as the result of A'isceral complication. 3. Irritative Fever is of a less specific type. It is usually associated Avith the asthenic form, the ncrA'ous system being esjAecially imjAlicated. It occAU's in individuals Avhose mental poAvers have been o\-erAATOught, or whose neiwous systems have been in-itated and shattered by intemperance. It is c-haracterised by in-egularity in its actions, by sudden exacerbatioiis, and by a lapid decline. The several febrile symptoms run high in the early stages.