CONGESTIOK 107 The oxistonco of congestion in an internal organ may be ascertained by finding its size increased, and its functions modified, wth a sensation of weight in it. The symptoms of internal congestion are often, however, very obscure. Effects.—These are of much surgical importance. The first change that nsnally takes place is an effort in the vessels of the part to relicA’e themselves, l)y a transudation of the more watery constituents of the blood into the sur- rounding areolar tissue. Hence the intei’spaccs of this tissue are distended by the eifused fluid, giving rise to mlema. If the turgidity of the vessels be gveat, and tbeir walls at the same time weakened, rupture null occur, and hasmorrhage to the surface, or into the substance of the part, wiU ensue. In consequence of the infiltration of the areolar tissue, softening takes place, nutrition becomes less and less perfectly performed, and ulceration at last occiu’s. These changes we not unfrequently see in the integuments of the' legs of old people. In other cases, the vessels becoming permanently dilated, the part assimies habitually a redder or darker tint, becomes swollen, and, if it be a mucous surface, it may be roughened and papiUated, as is often observed in a congested conjunctiva. Fih-oul induration is not unfrequent in congestion of long duration, and is due to the gradual increase of the connective tissue around the distended blood A'essels. But although the affected part may be increased in bulk, the normal tissue is really atrophied by the presence of the new growth. The liver affords, perhaps, the best illustration of this process, in the nutmeg atrojpMj that is frequently found associated vdth obstructive disease of the heart. Canses.—Congestion is always a passive and mechanical condition : and hence the term “ active congestion ” is not a proper one. What has been described as active congestion is merely a stage of inflammation. The causes of congestion, always mechanical, may be dmded into two gveat. classes, which we often find conjoined : 1. Those causes that act by obstructing the return of the venous blood ; 2. Those that act by enfeebling the walls of the capillai’ics and veins, so that they are no longer able to withstand the out- ward pressure of the contained blood. ^ 1. Amongst the first set of causes, may be specified any condition that, ^directly and immediately interferes with the proper retiun of blood through a ■\ein ; in this way the pressure of a tumour upon such a vessel produces, congestion of the part fi-om which it caivies off the blood. Venous obstruction does not always act in so direct a maimer as this ; for it not unfrequently happens, that obstruction to the return of blood from one organ will be attended by a congestive condition of the A'essels in a distant one. riius Ave find some fonns of congestion of the eye-ball connected Anth obstruc- tion in the branches of the portal veins. A long-continued dependent position of a part may occasion congestion, owing to the blood mechanically gravitating into it, and retarding, by tlie pressure thus brought to bear upon the vessels, the omvard moA'ement of the uid within them. Thus Ave see congestion of the legs from long-continued Btanding ; of the hremoiThoidal A'eins from an habitually sedentaiA life • and ot tlie posterior part of the lungs of those who have been long confined to the recumbent position.