SPECTA L DISLOCxl TIONS. 476 AMtl. their hgamciits, the great strength of the capsular muscles and tlieir close conuec 1011 uith the joiiit, and the support given by the tension of the long part; but the principal obstacle to disloca- .1 1 1 ^ y 1C scapula, enabling all movements communicated to ttic^liand and arm to react upon that bone. '1110 Signs of dislocation of the shoulder-joint are sufficiently obvious vaiTinf'- lowever, according to the nature of the injury. In aU cases there are’six coni- moii signs, Tiz. 1, a flattening of the shoulder ; 2, a hollow under the acromion ; 3, an apparent projection of this process, with hollow tension of the deltoid ; 4, the presence of the head of the bone in an abnormal situation • 5 iigidity ; and (!, jiain about the shoidder. of four dislocations. Of these, according to hir A. Cooper, three are complete, and the foin-th partial. I think, however, that on examination it nill be found that the so-called dislocation is in reality a complete one. The directions in which the head of the humerus may DISLOCATIONS OP THK HEAD OF THE HUMERUS. Pig. 207.—Sulicoracoid. Fig. 20S.- Suliolavicular. Fig. 209.—Subspinous. Fig. 210.—Subglonoicl. be thrown are—1, inwards and slightly doivmvards]oo\\Q?ith.ifLO coracoid process —Euhcoracoid (Fig. 207) ; 2,forioards beneath the clavicle—Sid)- clavicuJar (Fig. 208); 3, haclcivards and dmonwardsrmAerfho sjiineofthescatiula —Sulsjnnoiis (Fig. 209) ; 4, doivmvards and slightly imvardsViiAovfh& ^onoidi cavity—Subglenoid (Fig. 210). Thus thi’ee dislocations are more or less inwards, one only being backwards or inwards. 1. Subcoracoid Dislocation.—In the case of mcwnjjJefe dislocation rejiortod by Sir A. Cooper, the head of the bone was found to be thrown out of the glenoid cavity, lying under the coracoid jirocess upon the anterior jiart of the neck of the scajmla (Fig. 207) ; the capsular muscles were not torn, but the long head of the biceps had been mptimed. The description given by Sir A. Cooper, and the illustrative plate in his work on Dislocatiotis, appear to point to a form of injury of the shoulder-joint which has of late years been specially described by the French surgeons as a variety of the dislocation downwards ; that form of disjilacement, indeed, which by Boyer has been described as the dislocation “ inwards,” by Malgaigne as the “ snbcoracoid ” luxation, and by Velpeau as the “ subscapiilar ” dislocation ; in which the head of the humerus is placed in front of the neck of the scapula, and underneath the subscapular muscle. In this dislocation the head of the bone, instead of being thromi, as