44 amputations. nicnfc is clra^vn fairly and sharply along the whole line of its teeth from heel to. point. Ihe groove thus formed recei^■es the edge of the saw ; and the bone may then he quickly cut through by long, light, and sweeping movements of the instrmuent from point to heel, the position being gradually changed from the hoi izontal to the a ertical as progress is made. The Surgeon must, with his left hand, support carefully the part to bo removed ; neither depressing it, so as to snap the bone as it is weakened by samng ; nor raising it so as to run the risk of locking the saw. When the Surgeon takes charge of the flaps him- self, the care of the hmb must be left to an assistant. When there are two bones in the limb of equal strength, as in the fore-arm, they should be cut through at the same time ; but in the leg, the fibida, being the weakest, shoidd always be first divided. Shoidd the division be made irregularly, and splinters of bone project, these must be snipped off ivith cutting-pliers. 4. Aerest oe H.a:MOREE:AGB.—After the limb has been remoi'ed, the first thing to be done is to restrain arterial haemoiThage. This may be effected by one of three methods :—hgatiu’e, acupressure, or torsion. If ligatiu-es be used, the main and larger arteries must first be tied. For this purpose, fine com- ]iressed tvhipcord is the best material. The ends of these ligatures, knotted together, must be left long, so that they may be distinguished. Usually from two to four or six smaller i-essels require to be tied, and they should be secured with ordinary ligatiu'e-thread ; but sometimes, either from the existence of malignant disease, or of extensive siqipimative action in the limb, the stump is excessively vascular, and a very large number of ligatures may be required. I have, in these circumstances, more than once had occasion to apply between twenty and thirty ligatures to vessels in the arm and thigh. As union always takes place by gTanulation in such cases, it signifies little how many ligatiu’es are put on, the smaller ones separating early. One half of each hgatiwe should be cut off close to the knot, and the single threads thus left must be brought out at the lower angle of the Avonnd, through Avhich any discharge that may form may drain away. Silver or iron wire may be used for ligatiu’ing the arteries, Avith the AueAV of preventing the suppuration that residts from the initation of the ordinary silk or thread ligatures, and thus facihtating miion by the fii’st intention. I haA'e employed AAore in several instances, l^nt haA’e foimd that it does not cut through the artery as the thread does, and consequently does not detach itself, but requires to be pulled or tAvisted off—a procediu-e Avhich may be attended by htemorrhage. The practice of cutting the ends of ligatures short, whether hempen or metallic, is most objectionable ; for, although the stump may heal over them, they eventually become sources of irritation, and set up suppiuation or deA’elope neuralgia. During the last few years carbolised catgut ligatiues have been extensiA'ely used, being cut short and left in the Avoiuid. Their use has been foimd to be attended by no ca il consequences, eA’en AA'hen the antiseptic mode of dressing is not adopted. Acupressure, and torsion of the ends of ent arteries, are often employed instead of the ligature by the adA'oeates of these methods. For a detail of the mode of arresting luemoiThage by these means, and tor a comparison of their merits Avith those of the ligatiue, I must refer to Chapter XIV. Free arterial bleeding Avill sometimes take place fi'om a pohit in the cut siu’facc of the bone, in consequence of the diA’ision of the trunk of the nu-