888 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. ill the dentil of the pntieiit. This fatnl teriiiinatioii tuny, however, be long delayed. The accompanying Fig. 320 is from a patient of mine who had suffered from the disease lor nearly thirty years, but who was to all appearance in perfect health, although the skull was perforated, the dura mater exposed, and the pulsations of the brain distinctly \dsible. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis has to be made from Epithelioma, Syphilis, and Lupus. The distinction from ordinary cjAtlielioma is often at first difficult; but in the later stages the absence of glandular affection, the small amount of growth compared to the ulceration, and the prolonged course of the case, render the diagnosis easy. From tertiary syphilis it is clearly distinguished by the duration of the case. In syphilitic ulceration “ the rate of destruction is measimed by weeks ; in rodent cancer, by years.” There is also an absence of all other signs of constitutional syphilis. From ordinary lupus it is distinguished by the age and healthy constitutional state of the patient, by the singleness of the ulcer, and the absence of the pink, scaly, or oedematous skin frequently found around lupus. Lupus may cicatrise and cease at any time ; rodent cancer never does. Lupus possesses contractihty; rodent cancer has none. Lupus rarely causes death ; rodent ulcer is always eventually fatal. Pathology.—The microscopic characters of the solid infiltrating substance have been examined by Moore, Hulke, and C. Warren, aU of whom have found some parts which presented appearances identical with epithelioma. Moore found this in the diploe of the frontal bone, and Hulke in a part of the globe of the eye implicated in the disease. The greater part of the growth presents characters differing but httle from those of ordinary granulation-tissue. Moore was of opinion that the growth commenced in aU cases in a pimple identical in structure with epithelioma, but that this character was lost as the growth extended, but could be readily assumed again in “ certain situations or in convenient textimes.” The conclusions at which Dr. Colhns Warren arrives as the result of his researches, are, that rodent ulcer is a form of epithelial cancer; and that it differs fr’om the more ordinary forms of epithehoma in the small size of the cells. The arrangement of these epithelial cells may be tubular and alveolar (Fig. 327). We have seen from the foregoing description of the disease, that rodent cancer is a solid growth, having no limitation by a cyst, infiltrating and super- seding the natural textures, exhibiting a power of continuous increase, infecting the adjoining parts, so that an incision, where they appear healthy, is yet followed by a return of the disease, and ultimately degenerating and dis- appearing, destroying with itself all the tissues which it had penetrated. On these grounds Moore considers himself justified in classing it with the cancels, in spite of the absence of glandular and constitutional infection. But this view appears to be open to doubt. Although it is impossible not i to admit that in some cases, and in some parts of most cases, rodent ulcei is in its histology closely allied to, if not identical with, some of the less active forms of epithelioma, yet it is equally certain that the great mass of the active part of a rodent ulcer presents nothing that is structurally cancerous, and that clinically it differs from all and every variety of that disease in the most marked manner. We have abundant proof in other diseases, such as the