853 SECONDARY OR CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. every night unci morning; or by putting a similar quantity upon a piece of lint and letting the patient wear it during the day and night iir each axiUa. It must be borne in mind that the orifices of the sweat-glands and haii- Ibllicles become fiUed with the ointment ; so that, should salivation commence, ^ it is impossible at once to arrest the absoi-ptioii of the mercury. . \ The duration of the mercurial coimse must depend upon the effect produced upon the sore. The course need not be continued until this has cicatrised, but should be persevered in until all specific action has ceased, and the sore has acciuircd a healthy and healing state. This impression is seldom produced upon the sore, without a slight effect upon the mouth having been previously induced ; the gums becoming spongy, red, and swollen, and an increased flow of saliva taking place. It is never necessary to continue the mercimy so long, or to give it to so great an extent, as to produce veiy profuse salivation. It was in attempting to do this, and by administering the remedy in too laige a quantity, and too rapidly, that the older Sm-geons produced such injmious consequences. The effect upon the sore, rather than that upon the gums, should be oiu’ guide as to the proper time for discontinuing the mercurial. The rules to be observed during a course of merciuy exercise considerable influence upon the effects produced by it. The system should always be pie- pared for its administration by a free piu’ge. While it is being given, the patient should, if possible, be kept in bed, or at aU events be confined to the house, taking as much rest as possible ; the diet should be moderate and unsti- mulating, and the dress be as warm as the season will admit. If the mercury be given by the mouth, and gripe, it will be found useful to combine it vuth capsicum. If it purge, small doses of opium may advantageously be adminis- tered in conjunction with it. After it has been carried to the full extent deemed advisable, it should not be suddenly left off, but gTaduaUy discontinued by diminishing the quantity daily during a week or ten days. If it be given in accordance with these rules, and in proper constitutions, we shall seldom find any of those injinious effects produced that were formerly described as resulting fr-om the administration of this mineral; those severe and extensive forms of idceration of the mouth, leading to necrosis of the jaws, and the mercinial erythema or erethismus described by the older Surgeons, are now happily almost matters of history, being but seldom if ever met "with. SEOONDABY, TERTIARY, OR CONSTITUTIONAL MANIFESTATIONS OP SYPHILIS. The introduction of the syphilitic poison into the general system gives rise to two very important groups of phenomena : first, those that affect the system generally, influencing deeply the condition of the blood and the nutrition of all the textures of the body, occasioning febrile disturbance, followed by eina- ciation, cachexy, and general evidences of mal-nutrition : secondly, a variety of local diseases, which arc characterised by distinct phenomena :—1. Modi- fication of the skin and mucous membrane, as observed in mucous tubercles, psoriasis, and analogous affections, and ulcerations, affecting the skin and mucous membranes in various parts of the body ; 2. The deposit of lowly