911 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC TETANUS. enema. The patient shonlci tlicn be kept perfectly quiet in a room by biniBelf, a screen or muslin curtains, as recommended by Marshall Hall, being drawn round the bed, as noise or moA'cment of any kind increases the spasms greatly. In order to allay the spinal irritation, the most effectual means consists perhaps in the plan recommended by Todd, of applying ice along the whole length of the spine : this is best done by one of Chapman’s spine-bags. This is a powerfid depressing agent, and, unless care be taken, may lower the heart’s action too much, or indeed completely extinguish it. It may, however, bo applied Avith safety for six or eight hours, the condition of the patient being looked to in the uieamA^hile. Sedative or antispasmodic agents are of no use AvhatoA'er in acute traumatic tetanus. I haA'e seen many di-ugs of this kind emj)loyed, Avithout producing any effect in lessening the violence of the convulsions. In most cases, hoAvever, the inhalation of chloroform, or the administration of chloral, materially lessens their seA'erity, and gives the patient at least temporary ease. In the Suiacuto or Chronic form of the disease, recoA'ery is much more likely to take place ; and it is only in these cases that antispasmodics and sedatives have been of use, and in these also chloroform and chloral are far more beneficial than in the acute cases. There is a kind of trismus occm'ring in females, often of a hysterical natime, which is at once remoA^ed by the in- halation of chloroform. Almost every drug in the pharmacopoeia of a tonic, sedative, or antispasmodic natiu’e, has been employed in these cases ; and the recoA-ery which has occasionally resulted has been perhaps over hastily at- tributed to the remedy, rather than to the employment of those dietetic and hygienic means, which are of the first importance, by enabling the patient to live on until the disease wears itself out. Tonics, especially iron and quinine, have been employed by some. Elliotson was strongly impressed Avith the value of the carbonate of ii-on. Sedatives in all forms—conium, belladomia, opium, and their alkaloids—have been largely and most ineffectually employed! MiUer speaks highly of cannabis Indica pushed to narcotism, three grains of the extract, or thirty minims of the tincture, being given every half hour or horn ; and Haughton has employed nicotine in one-drop doses administered every second hour, Avith complete success in seA^ere cases of traumatic tetanus. The Calabar bean is the best remedy that perhaps desenns physiologicallv the most attention ; for, as it is nearly if not quite antagonistic to the tetanic spasms of strychnia. It may be hoped that it aauII be found equally useftd as a s^ative^to the spinal cord in those arising from traumatic causes. In E Watson s hands very successful results have followed its administration let It IS far from being a specific. I have tried it in several cases, Avith no appreciable good effect. It may be given by the mouth, hypodermically or Rev anum: m the form of a solution or a tincture of the extract in half-cmin doses, by the mouth; hypodermically, in doses of one-sixth of a grainper iniim,m gram-doses. The dose should be given at least every seLid hour ntd complete contraction of the pupil occurs. Stimulants, as h-andy should the same time be given to counteract the depression that mil result from e use of the drug. At the same time that recourse is had to rhoIi as these, it must not be forgotten that the disease is oii'e of great exhiustbii!