202 INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. nsocl diu'iiio’ the operation must be washed in a 1 to 40 solution of caiholic acid; and in hosjDital practice it is advisable to keep them always ready in bath of the solution. After an operation, the meshes of the sponges always are more or less filled with coagulated fibrine, which no Avashing Avill get out. To clean sponges thoroughly, Lister recommends that they should be put in a basin of simple Avater for some days, till the decomposing fibrine emits a poAverfnl smell ; then Avashed thoroughly Avith Avater, and put to soak in a bath of 1 to 20 solution of carbolic acid. Before beginning the operation, the Siu-geonmust thoroughly soak his hands in a 1 to 40 solution of carbolic acid ; and aaLcii practicable, it is advisable to i keep a rag soaked in the same lotion applied, for some hours before the opera- tion, to the area aftemards to be covered by the dressing. In aU cases, the Avhole of the part to be operated on must be carefully washed with 1 in 20 solution before commencing the performance. If old sinuses be implicated in the operation-Avomid, they must be injected A\nth chloride of zinc (40 gi\ to an ounce) after the operation, and the whole wound Avashed out Avith cai’bohc acid lotion. If the sinuses be nmnerous it is, perhaps, safer to wash the whole wound out Avith chloride of zinc lotion, the good effects of AA'hich were pointed out by Campbell De Morgan many years ago. Sinuses should not be injected before the operation, as there is some danger of ruptimiug their Avails, and if the chloride of zinc lotion should thus become injected into the cellular tissue, the most extensiv'e and dangerous sloughing may result. In all cases of AAmimd, AA'hether residting from accident or operation, di’ainage fonns an essential part of the antiseptic system of treatment. The inltation of the antiseptic, applied to the raAV sm’face, increases considerably the flow of the natural serous discharge dmlng the first twenty-four or thirty-six hoiu’s. There ai'e no hgatm-es to form a drain for it, and the edges of the woimd are rather firmly pressed together by the dressing. It is necessary, therefore, to provide for the exit of the discharge by means of India-rubber drainage tubes. One or more must be inserted to the very bottom of the Avound, and the edges of the skin may then be brought together as closely as possible, a continuous sutiu'e CA'en being used if the Siu’geon prefer it. The tubes must be rendered antiseptic, by being kept for about tAA'enty-four hoiu’s in a 1 to 20 solution of the acid. They should be cut off level Avith the siu'face, and to prevent them from slipping into the AA'Ound, a cai’bolised silk thread should be attached to their superficial ends. The tubes must vary in size and number Avith the extent and nature of the woimd, and must be brought to the surface at the most coiwenient and dependent parts. It must be remembered that these tubes, ,j being usually made of vulcanised India-rubber, contain a considerable cunount 'j of sulphm'. They aaiU, therefore, often impart a peculiar smell to the dischai’ge, . and blacken silver stitches or plaster in their neighbourhood, and so falsely > suggest that decomposition has taken place. The drainage-tubes should not be moved for the first tAVO days, by AAdiich time they AA'ill have formed a track for themselves, and can be readily re-introduced if necessary. Sometimes they can be completely remoA'ed on the third day ; but usually it is safer merely to | shorten them by cutting off a piece at each di'cssing till they become reduced to about half an inch in length. In aU cases, it is better from the beginning to protect the raAV surface anc