PATHOLOGY OF PYjEMIA. 717 The temperature will also serve as a valuable guide in forming a diagnosis. As before stated, in pytemia it rarely falls to normal, and if by chance it do so. it rapidly rises again to a higher point, while in ague there is a very distinct and prolonged interval of normal temperature between the febrile attacks. If, however, the patient be suffering at the same time from ague and traumatic fever, the temperature mil fail to sink to the normal point and the diagnosis mil be consequently more obscure. 3. From Rheumatism it is easy to make the diagnosis of pytemia, provided the recun-ent rigor and other early symptoms have beeii well and strongly marked. But if these have been somewhat obscure, and if the secondary articular implication be early developed, then it may certainly be difficult to determine the exact disease with which the patient is affected. But, inde- pendently of the recurrent rigor, the great prostration, the early supervention of atonic symptoms, the development of the visceral abscesses, of areolar sup- puration, and of patches of eiTatic erysipelas, will establish the true nature of the disease. Moreover, the temperature of rheumatic fever does not show the extraordinary variations seen in pymmia and the sweating in rheumatism is continuous, and not merely the sequence of a rigor. In pyaemia the tongue is usually dry, and perhaps brorvn, and never presents the creamy white fru characteristic of rheumatism. The smell of the patient is sweet or “ saccha- rine ” in pyaemia, while in rheumatism it is sour, and quite distinctive. PfiOGJrosis.—The prog-uosis in pyaemia is always bad. The disease is dan- gerous to life, to health, and to limb. When active acute pyaemia has fairly set in, recovery rarely, if ever, takes place, the patient usually dying between the fourth and the twelfth days. One or two pyaemic rigors may be recovered from. It is the repetition of these attacks, followed by profuse sweating, and attended by extreme exhaustion, that is so fatal. In fact, the danger and the rapidity of the fatal termination in any given case will, cc&tens paxibus, depend on the rapidity of the recuiTence of the rigors and their severity. M hen the pymmic attack is from the first subacute or chronic, it may be recorered from, usually after j>rolonged illness, the formation of numerous or large abscesses, arid great and continued distiubance of the general health. In these less active and acute forms of pymmia, one joint is liable to special implication, more particularly the knee, and next the elbow. The diseased action lighted up in it may go on to inflammatory disorganisation. Destructive suppuration may be set up in it, and loss or permanent impairment of utility of the limb will be the inevitable result. ^ Pathology.—That the blood undergoes important changes in this disease IS unquestionable, and there are many reasons for believing with Virchow, to are indebted for much light on this subject, that at least three diflerent conditions may present themselves ; which, although probably co- oxistingMu the majority of cases, yet are of independent origin, and may each ^ editing cause of some special symptoms, which, taken altogether, constitute the disease called pyiemia. These three conditions arc- thc affectintTr^^ ^^^1 colourless blood-corpuscles, constituting the afiection termed Leucocytosis, which has been commonly viewed as a proof of the admixtiue of pus with the circulating fluid. ^