AMPUTATION FOP CONTUSED WOUNDS. 213 As a general rule, severe injuries are more readily recovered from in the young than in the old, their vitality and elasticity of constitution being gi’catcr, with less tendency to consecutive diseases. Much udll depend upon the habits of the patient, or upon the existence of visceral disease at the time of the injury. In persons who have been fr’ce livers, and who have that pecuhar irritability of system conjoined with deficient power commonly observed in such subjects, and more especially if there be aheady existing disease of the liver or kidneys, contused and lacerated wounds are apt to be followed by the womt foiTus of erysipelas and traumatic gangrene, and thus to be speedily fatal, lujiu’ies of the upper extremity are less serious than those of the lower ; its supply of blood being proportionately greater and more uniformly distributed. In some badly contused wounds, also, of the arm and hand, as in bad lacera- tions with fractiu’o about the shoulder, elbow, or metacaip)us, resection of the iujiued part may be perfoimed instead of amputation of the limb. Though there may always be this doubt as to the cases that should not be amputated, there are certain conditions in which the Siugeon need never hesitate to perform this operation, as the only chance of saving the patient’s life. The folio-wing are the cases of severe contusion and laceration in which the limb should be amputated ; either with the view of preventing the occiu- renee of gangrene, or in order to remove a mortified part from the body, and thus to save the life of the patient at the expense of the injured hmb. 1. If a limb have been torn off by machinery, carried away by a cannon-ball, or cut off by the passage of a railway-train over it, the irregular and conical stump should be amputated, so as to leave a more useful and healthy one to the patient. 2. If the whole thickness of a limb—the soft parts and the bones—^l^e thoroughly disorganised and crushed, it must be removed. o. If the soft parts be extensively stripped away fr’om the bones, though these be entire, so much sloughing and suppuration wiU ensue as to leave a useless limb, and amputation should be performed. It is in these cases that it is often especially difficult to estimate the amoimt of injury that cannot be lecmeied from, this depending much upon the age and constitution of the su erer. I believe that Siu’geons, in their anxiety to save a limb, often lose a patient undei these circumstances. I have more than once had reason to regret ^ a-ving attempted to save limbs injured in this way ; and believe that, if e 8 111 of the lower exti’emity be extensively tom down and the museles muc 1 acerated, so as to slough away, there is but little chance for the patient— nn ess e be 1 ery young, and of a remarkably sound constitution—except in ampu ation. In the upper extremity it is different; there, recovery may take place imder the most adverse circumstances. d. So also, if the knee be largely opened, with laceration of the soft pai'ts an per laps fra,ctiu'e of the contiguous bones, tlie limb must be amputated. n.lrrnT^i^ injuries of the ankle, shoidder, and elbow joints, may, as has r -n stated, admit of resection rather than of amputation. heupp have a great tendency to run into gangrene, and rS3" "-7 extensive inju- ^Its die often rocovpTPfl ftvm, j.:.,. • recovered fr-oni, without this operation bein ny eases partial resection may be substituted for it. g necessary ; and in