243 HYDROPHOBIA. finds tliafc this remedy has no jDower in cases of cobra bite, or as an antidote to the poison of Indian serpents, -whateTer its efficacy may be in counteracting the deadly effects of those of the Australian species. As liquor potass® decom- poses the A'irus into a sediment and supernatant fluid, both of Avhich are inno- cuous, it might be supposed that it would act as a true antidote, but it has not been foimd to do so Avhen iiijectcd into the Iffood of Ijitten animals. The difficulty Avith respect to antidotes for snake-poisoning apj>ears to con- sist in the application rather than in the possibility of the discoA'ery of one. TheA'enom of a snake is at once injected into the blood of the animal bitten, is caiTied AAuth the circulation to the nen'ous centre, decomposing the fluid that couA-eys it, so that it has the start of any antidote than can possibly be applied in a suflicient time to prerent its direct toxic effects on the system. It is difficult to understand hoAV an antidote could act unless it AA®re injected into the veins simultaneously Avith the introduction of the snake-poison into the blood. Unless a surgeon be at hand prepared to do this at the moment, as in the case of an animal bitten for experiment, too much time Avould be lost to render the coiuiteraction of a poison possible. And it is evident that di-ugs or substances SAvalloAved AAuth the vieAv of acting as antidotes could not be absorbed from the stomach in time to be efficacious. BITES OF RABID ANIMALS : HYDROPHOBIA. Bites of rabid animals giA'e rise to the disease so much and so justly dreaded, but fortunately seldom seen in man in this country. Hydrophobia. This disease cannot originate de novo in man, but invariably occurs iu him and most commoidy in the loAver animals, as the result of inoculation. Animals of the canine and fehne species are most subject to it; especially the dog, the Avolf, the fox, the jackal, and the cat. It has not, I beheve, been observed in hons or tigers, or in the larger feline animals. Does rabies ever originate de novo in annuals ? Most veterinary simgeons are of opinion that it does not, but is invariably the result of contagion. If it e\®r do arise spontaneously, its causes are very obscure. But it certainly appears to be subject to epidemic A'anations. In some years hydi’ophobia is never heard of—in others it is very rife. Hychophobia has foUoAved the bite of an animal that has shoAvn no signs of rabies-one of those many inexphcable occun-ences in this singular disease. It has been attributed to the influence of season, being most common in the early spring months ; thus Eckel found it most common in dogs iu February and May. Want of water, sudden changes from heat to cold, bad food, and unsatisfied sexual desire, have also each been assigned as causes of its occinrence m animals, men we inquire into the operation of these alleged causes, we ai 0 scover any direct and positive connection betAveen any one of them and rabies. Mhth regard to the influence of heat and want of water, it would appear that in those countries in Avhich animals of the canine and feline races Me most exposed to these conditions, hydrophobia is unknoAAui. Thus Mr. ^ oiioAan, Avho has resided and travelled for many years in Central Afi-ica 1 onus me that, 111 the deserts of that country, Avhere Avater is so scarce that man and beast often die ot thhnt, lions are always to be Cd andUo casionally seen going about 111 famihes, whilst hyenas, jackals, and wild doo-s ‘ most munerous, and yet hydrophobia is unkiioAvn. Barrow, a scientific