847 THE TBUE HUNTERIAN CHANCRE. a syiJliilisocI child, whilst in others infection will be conveyed when blood is mixed with the lymph. Progress.—The etfects of contagion are not immediately manitested. ilic time that intervenes between inoculation and actirity of the poison is called the incuhation period. It may be occupied in three ways. If the vehicle containing the virus be of a non-irritating character, the broken surface heals, and all trace of the inoculation disappears until the incubation is completed ; or, as the vehicle of the virus is often ims or discharge of an irritable kind, it may cause immediate inflammatory action at the point of inoculation. This irritation subsides in a short time, and the part then remains quiet until the incubation is complete, when the syphilitic poison betrays its jiieseucc 1)^ characteristic phenomena. An experiment of Vidal’s illustrates this : he inoculated the matter of a pustular syphilitic eruption on the arm of a medical student, which produced a pustule in a couple of days; this healed over in about a fortnight, and the exjreriment was supposed to have failed untib the thirty-fifth day; action then recommenced by the development of a papule, which subsequently rrlcerated, and general syphilis followed in due coiuse. It the syphilitic virus be carried in the pus of a local contagious chancre, the time of incubation is often occupied by the course of a chancre, Avhich may or may not have healed over when the syphilitic poison begins its action. This series of events, first a suppiuating contagious sore, and then hidiu’ation forming iii the base of the sore, or in its scar if the sore have already healed, is perhaps almost as common as the inoculation of syphilis miaccompanied by immediate local irritation; but the two morbid actions have no connection with each other, and are only accidentally co-existent. The length of this time of inactivity varies in different persons ; it is commonly twenty-five days. The shortest known period before the poison began to reveal its presence has been ten days, and the longest forty-six days. "When the time of active progress has arrived, the point of contagion becomes an elevated hard copper-coloiued spot, Avhich sometimes ulcerates, and if in’itated does so freely, forming the indurated or Hunterian chancre. Xot iinfrequently the surface scarcely ulcerates, but is simply eroded ; and even erosion may be wanting, in which case the only change on the surface is simple desquamation of the cuticle. The Indurated or True Hunterian Chancre, as it is termed, is not by any means so frequently met Avith as the other manifestations of syphilitic inoculation. The great characteristic of this form of venereal ulcer is the indm’ation of its edges and base ; and this character is met AAnth from the very first. Any ulcer, but more especially the chancrous excoriation, may during its progi’css become indurated fr-om undue stimulation, or from being otherwise inflamed ; but the Hunterian chancre is indurated from the first, and continues so throughout. This induration of the base is the result of a peculiar plastic effusion, Avhich, though it microscopically and chemically resemble ordinary healthy lymph, yet very distinctly differs from it in its vital characters. The dischai-ge from a soft chancre consists of pus, in no AA\ay distinguishable by the microscope from the pus on the surface of a granulating sore. The discharge from, a true Hunterian chancre, Avhen not subject to any undue irritation consists chiefly of epithelial debris, floating in a clear fluid, true pus-cells