FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 403 Fracture of the Sternum.—The sternum is not often broken. Its fi’ac- tm-c nsnally occurs from very severe and direct violence ; and when this is applied on the forepart of the chest, the ribs or costal cartilages are more liable to suffer. The elastic support furnished to the sternum by these structures, explains in a great measime the rarity of its fr-acture. It may also be produced by violent bending forward of the body after the spine has been broken. It has been known to be broken, though very rarely, by violent straining muscidar efforts during parturition. Its fractures are always transverse, usually single, but sometimes multiple. I have seen it broken into three nearly equal firag- ments by a fall fr'om a scaffold. The displacement of one of the firagments is sometimes considerable ; bnt even if it be not, the very superficial situation of the bone will always enable the Surgeon to judge of the exact natime of the injury it has sustained, the signs of Avhich resemble those of a fractimed rib. The Treatment must be conducted on the same principles as in a broken rib, and presents nothing deserving of special attention. Indeed, when fractiu’e of the stermun ocem-s fr-om external violence, it is commonly associated Avith fr-actine of the ribs, near the angles ; and then the chest-bandage or plaster ansAvers equally for both injiu'ies. Should the sternum be broken during par- turition, the patient should be made to sit up in bed, with the shoulders supported and leaning forwards slightly, so as to take off the tension of the abdominal muscles. If a portion of broken sternum be depressed, it should be left undistiu’bed. It uill gix'e rise to no serious inconvenience, while any attempt to raise it by surgical interference may be attended with the gTeatest danger. FRACTURES OF THE UPFER EXTREMITY. The Clavicle is more frequently broken than any other bone in the body. For this there are three reasons. First, it is exposed to the influence of direct violence ; secondly, it receii'es all shocks transmitted through the shoulder in a horizontal direction to the trmik; and thirdly, being the only direct osseous sup- port of the up]ier extremity, it receives, by transmission through the scapida, every shock that is communicated to the hand when the arm is extended. Hotivith- standing its exposed jiosition, it is comparatively seldom broken by direct iujiny. The great majority of the fractures occur fi’oin indirect violence, as falls on the shoulder and the hand. This bone would be moi’e frequently broken than it is, ivere it not that it resembles two segments of a circle looking in opposite directions, so as to fomi an S shape, which admirably enables it to Avithstand indirect violence (Fig. 156). 1 he clavicle is occasionally fractured by muscular action—more particularly fr’om the SAAing of the arm, as in a back-handed blow. When the accident occurs from this cause, it is usually about the middle of the bone, and on the right side. Compound fracture of the clavicle can only occur from buUet-AVOunds, or some similar seA^cre and direct injmy inflicted upon the bone. Fractures fr-om direct violence are usually transverse, and often comminuted, from mdireet violence they are oblique. The latter are attended by mucli more deformity than the former. Fractm-cs of this bone in infants and young children are usually transverse; D D 2