394 I'll AG TUBES. 0 laia cLown, and alter a few weeks the pegs, M'hich have loosened in consequence of the re- moval or absorption of their ends, should be taken out. It is not necessary or even de- sirable to attempt to pin together the ends of the broken bone, but merely to introduce the pegs into the extremities of both fragments near to the seat of fracture. It is, however, especially in ununited fr’actures of the humerus that this can be successfully done, the irritation of the pegs appearing to occasion an eiiusion of a large quantity of callus suffi- cient for the consolidation of the fractme. This operation I have practised ■with great success in several instances of ununited fracture of this bone. In one case that was under my care, there was a false joint at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the bone, complicated ■\nth an elbow ankylosed in the straight position ; here, after flexion of the stiff elbow, perfect consolida- tion of the hiunems "^^ns effected by the use of five pins. In the ununited fractures of the bones of the leg and forearm, it is also likely to be seiwiceable, but in the femim not so much so. Indeed, in the cases of unimited fracture of this bone, I have known more failures than successes after this operation. 2. The operation of Removing the False Joint may be performed by cutting down upon it, and resecting the ends of the bones, or else by destroying the articulation with caustic potash. The excision of a false joint is necessarily dangerous, and by no means successful ; erysipelas, pldebitis, and diffuse sup- puration of the bone, occasionally supeiTening. It shordd only be done when there is much overlapping of the fragments. Of thirty-nine cases collected by Norris, in which the ends of the bones were either resected or scraped, twenty- four were cured, seven derived no benefit, and six died. In those cases of the operation that are successful, some shortening of the limb must be expected to result; and, if the fractme be very oblique, it will of comse be impossible to remoA'e more than a very limited portion of bone, and, consequently, very perfect nrrion can scarcely be anticipated. The application of caustics to the exposed bones is so coarse and imcertain a method as to find but little favom* amongst Smgeons of the present day. Professor Nussbaum, of Munich, has ulna was lost as the result of a gunshot injiny. A shell of bone and periosteum was stripped off' the adjacent bone and laid into the gap that was left after the removal of the fractured ends and the intervening fibroid tissue, care being taken not to sever the periosteal connection between the transplanted shell and the body of the bone. Operations for ununited fracture very rarely succeed in children when the disunion is o'wing to other than local causes, ihey may succeed in old people : I have imited a lemur that had been disunited for recently performed transplantation of bone in a case where a portion of the