AMPUTATION OF THE THUMB. 67 The affcci’-trcafcmeiit of tlieso cases is extremely simple. The hand should be ]nit upon a splint, the u'ound covered with a piece of water-dressing, and the ends of the fingers, until small pieces of lint interposed, tied together by means of a tape, care being taken, however, that they do not overlap. The shaft of the metacarpal bone that is left will gTadually atrophy, and thus a very taper jind shapely hand eventually be left (Figs. 20, 2.1, 22). In disease or injury of the Thumb as little as possible should be removed by Fig. 2-i.—Amputation of Riglit Tlmmli by Transfixion. Cutting tlie Anterior Flap. amputation ; for, if even but a very short stump of the metacarpal bone be left, it will serve as an useful opponent for the other fingers. When the whole thumb requires amputation, it may most conveniently be removed by Liston’s method. The mode of proceeding must A ary according to the side operated on. When the Jpft thumb requires amputation, the jioint of a long narrow bistoiuy shoidd be introduced well on the palmar aspect of the carpo- metacarpal articulation, carried* over this, which it opens (Fig. 2u), and the dorsum of the hand as far as the Aveb of the index finger ; the point of the knife shordd then be pushed downwards through the ball of the thumb, transfixing this and issuing AAdrere the incisiorr commenced. During transfixion, the thrrmb should be slightly fixed and carried across the palm of the hand. It is rrext made to cut outwards, keeping close to the metacarpal bone, Avhich is readily tAA’isted orrt, the remaining attachment being sejrarated by a fcAV touches of the knife. An oval incision aaIII be left, Avhich comes together closely by a narroAV line of cicatrix. In am- prrtating the rnjht thrrmb, it aaIII be irecessary for the Srrrgeon, V just descriljcd, cither to use his left hand, or to cross IS hands nr an aAvkAAvard manner. In order to avoid doing this, he may rcA-crse the steps of the operation Avith advantage; first transfixing the ball, an making the anterior flap, then cutting over the dorsum, opening the F 2 - -Result of Am- putiition of Thumb.