590 INJURIES OF THE SEINE. injury which the cord has received. If tlie fractui’c have not implicated the spinal canal, as when only the tip ol a spinous process has been broken off, or it it bo unattended by displacenient, although it may traverse the body and aiches, no symptoms depending upon the injury of the cord need exist, and indeed occasionally they arc absent. Ilut even in these cases there is usually some paralysis, owing perhaps to the concussion to which the cord has been sub- jected at the moment of injury ; and occasionally a sudden movement l>y the patient will bring on displacement, by which the cord is compressed and all the parts below the injimed spot are paralysed. A woman was admitted into University College Hospital with an injury of the neck, the natime of which could not he accurately ascertained. She was in no way paralysed, but kept her head immovable in one position. A few days after admission, whilst making a movement in bed, by which she turned her head, she fell back dead. On examination, it was found that the spinous process of the fifth cervical vertebra had been broken olf short, and was impacted in such a Avay between the arches of this and the fomfh as to compress the cord. This impaction and consequent compression probably occurred at the time of the incautious movement, thus producing immediate death. When there is only partial dis- placement, there may be but incomplete paralysis of the parts below the injury ; of one arm, one leg, &c. In these cases there is usually gi’eat pain at the seat of fracture, and extending from it along the line of junction between the paralysed and sound parts round the body or along the hmb. This symp- tom, which is of great importance as exactly defining the seat of injury, is due, as I found in dissecting a case of fr-actiu’e of the sixth cervical vertebra under my care, to the fr-actured bone compressing and irritating the nerve that issues fr'om the vertebral notch opposite the seat of injm-y. When the cord is implicated, the symptoms will vary according to the seat of the injmy and the extent of the damage. Tor a detailed account of the symp- toms presented by injuries of the different portions of the cord, the reader is refen-ed to the section on “Wounds of the Spinal Cord,” (p. 585.) In the majority of cases of fractiue of the spine, there is such displace- ment of the bone as to compress the whole thickness of the cord, and thus to o.ccasion complete paralysis of motion and sensation in the parts below the seat of injury. This paralysis resembles that which arises fr’om simple division of the cord, but is foUowed by greater impairment of nutrition,^ as shown in wasting cachexy, a tendency to sloughing, and alkaline luine. The reason of this difference is, that in fractrue the cord is not simply compressed or divided, but is continuously iiuitated by the edges of broken bone, and thus not only becomes incapable of healing, but is kept in a state of chronic in’itation and inflammation. If the fracture be above the origin of the phrenic nerve, respiratiorr will be arrested and the patient die instantaneously. Prognosis—Although fractrue through the body of a vertebra is generally fatal it is not always, and instances have been known where the brokerr hone united, and the patierrt lived months or even years afterwards ; but fractrrrcs of the spine through the hodies of the vertebrm, with displacement, are in- evitably frrtal. Death occurs in three different ways. It happens primarily aird instantarreously, as the direct and immediate corisequcrice ot the injury, in all those cases in Avhich the fracture is abox'e the origin ot t re p nenic nene.