287 APPLICATION OF LIGATURE. the track of the wound, but may cut down on the vessel where it lies nearest the sin-face ; then, on jiassing a probe through the wound, the spot at which the artery has probably been injured will be pointed out, and the ligatin-c must then be applied in the way usual in cases of primary hasmon-hage. Iuy)r/k«r//ha3morrhage from Avound of an artery, no operation should be undertaken unless the bleeding be actually continuing. If the bleeding have been an-ested, however furious it may have been, the Surgeon should never, unless it binst forth again, search for the v^ounded vessel, nor undertake any operation. A man was brought to the University College Hospital unth a deep stab in the gi-oin, directly in the course of the external iliac artery ; a A'ery large cpiantity of arterial blood had been lost, but the hiemorrhage was arrested on his admission by the a]jplication of pressure, &c. From the gi-eat* and sud- den loss of blood it was supposed that the external iliac had been pmictured, but it was not thought adAusable to perform any operation mdess hiemorrhage recim-ed. The bleeding did not return, the wound healing Avithout any ftn-ther trouble. In secondary hemorrhage the case is different. There the Surgeon must be prepared to seem-e the vessel, even though bleeding have for the time ceased. 2. The second great principle in the treatment of woiuided arteries is, that the ligature is to he applied to loth ends of the vessel, if it he completely cut across; or on loth sides of the aperture in it, if it le only partially divided. The reason for this rule of practiee is foimded on physiological grounds as well as on practical experience. If the anastomoses of the part be very free, as in the arteries of the palm or forearm, bleeding may continue from the distal end, uninteiTupted by the ligatm-e on the proximal side of the wound. If they be less fr-ee, it aaIII probably issue in a stream of dark-looking venous blood in the coiu’se of tA\m or three days. After the collateral circulation has been sufficiently estabhshed, bright scarlet blood avIU burst forth fr-om the distal aperture. Experience has shoAni that it is in this AA'ay that secondary hiemor- rhage fr-om woimdcd arteries commonly ocem-s, the bleeding coming fr-om the distal and not fr-om the proximal end of the vessel. In some cases the distal end is so retracted and coA-ered in by siu-rounding parts, that it cannot be found in order to be ligatiu-ed. In these circum'^ stances, the best effect has resulted fr-om plugging- the wound fr-om the bottom with a gi-aduated sponge-oompress. If an arterial branch happen to be divided so close to Its origin that it cannot he seeured, the case must be treated as one of punctm-e of the main trunk, which must be ligatiu-ed above and below the bleeding orifiee. Although advocating strongly the importance of the distal as AA^ell as the proximal ligature in all cases of Avounded artery, I am aAA'are that instances are on record in which the proximal ligatiu-e alone, even at a distance fr-om the Avouiid, has proved suecessful in arresting the hemorrhage ; but I caimot but i-egard those cases as accidentally successful, the distal end having been better p ugge than usual Awth coaguliim ; and I am strongly of opinion that the rule of pmctice should be that Avliich is laid doAvn by John Bell, and ffi^trated by Guthrie, aIz. :_That both ends of a Avounded artery be soimhi for, and tied in the wound itself. ® Ligature.—The mode of applieation of the lio-atnre e nnd of ligature to bo used, vary according as, 1, the cut end of the