treatment of compound fracture of femur. 439 understand that, in certain cases, where injnry was done to the soft parts of the liTnh nostcriorly, it might be found very useful. C The starched or plaster bandage may be employed in most cases. In treating fractures of the shaft of the thigh-bone with the starched bandage, the followiSo- plan mil be found convenient. The limb should be evenly and thickly e°nveloped in a layer of cotton wadding ; a long piece of strong paste- board, about four inches wide, soaked in starch, must nex be applied to the posterior part of the limb, from the nates to the heel. If the _patient_ be very muscular, and the thigh large, this must be strengthened, especially at its upi>cr part by having slips of bandage pasted upon it. Two naiTower slips of pasteboard are now placed, one along each side of the limb, from the hip to the ankle, and another shorter piece on the fore part of the thigh. A double layer of starched bandao-e should now be applied over the whole, with a strong and well-starched spica.° It should be cut up and trimmed on the second or third day, and then re-applied in the usual way. With such an apparatus as this I have treated many fractured thighs, both in adults and in chil- dren, without confinement to bed for more than tliree or four days, and with little if any shortening or deformity being left (Fig. 140). The points to be especially attended to are, that the back paste- board splint be very strong, at the upper part especially, and that the spica be weU and firmly applied, so that the hip and the whole of the pelvis may be immovably fixed. A siiri'ple comminuted fractiu'e of the thigh-bone is usually best treated on the double inchned plane for the &st three weeks, after which it may be put up in the starched bandage. In fractures of the femur in chilcheu, it is often difficult to maintain good position, owing to the extreme restlessness of the patient. In such cases Hamilton recommends that a long splint be applied to the sound thigh as AveU as to the broken one. Ihe two splints are' connected together at the liottom by a transverse bar (Fig. 186). I can speak from experience of its use of the very great advan- tages of this method in young children. The Treatment of Compound and Comminuted Fracture of the Thigh-bone will vary according as the injiuy arises from gun-shot, or is an accident of ciAil life. In the former case, for reasons stated at p. 233, ampu- tation should at once be performed if the fractiu’e be below the upper third of the bone. AVhen the upper third is splintered, the result of amputation is so very imsatisfactory, that the patient ]nay have a bettor prospect of recovery if the limb be treated in splints, and an endeavour made to save it, disarticula- tion at the hip-joint in such cases being almost invariably fatal. AVhen a compound, and even a comminuted fractme of the thigh-bone, occurs from one of the common accidents of civil life, the line of practice is not so defined. The course that the Surgeon adopts must be influenced by the Fig. ISO.—Hamilton’s i)uul)lu Thigh Splliit with Cw.s.s Ihir.