236 GUX-SIIOT WOUNDS. Lullofc-wouuds of the anlch-joint do not necessarily x’eqnire ampixtation. If the bones be not too extensively comuiinnted, and more particularly if the posterior tibial artery and nerve have escaped injury, an attempt, and prolxably a successful one, may be made to save the limb ; the injuiy being treated on those principles ax Inch xviU be described in the chapters on Fractures and on Dislocations. In such cases extraction of fragments, and excision of the splinteicd ends, are necessary ; and modified operations, partial excision by means ol gouge, forceps, and Key’s savr, xviU be found more successful than the more systematic operations. If the large vessels and nerves hax'e been cut across, and the bones very extensively shattered, amputation xvill be the proper course to pursue. The shoulder, and more particularly the left shoulder, fr-om its advanced position in the act of firing, is peculiarly hable to gun-shot iujiuy ; the buUct either traversing the head of the humerus and lodging in it, or perhaps fr’actiuing some of the bony processes of the scapula in its immediate vicinity ; or, as in the case of common shot, or fragments of shells, carrying axvay the fleshy cushion of the deltoid muscle. It is especially in bullet-Avounds of the shoiilder and elboAV-joint, that conservative siugeiy has been most successful. In such cases, Avheu the bones are penetrated, and even shattered by a bullet, provided the main blood-vessels and nerves of the limb be not injm’ed, amputation xvill seldom be required ; and, indeed, it should be laid doAvu as a rule in siugeiy, that excision should be preferred to amputation ui all cases, Avhen the large blood-vessels and nerves are not xA’Oimded, or the soft parts too extensively disorganised. The Around haAdng been enlarged, loose spicula must be remoA’ed, and the sjDhntered and jagged ends of the fractrued bone saAvn smoothly off. If the bullet be still lodged in the head of the humerus, as in Fig. 95, the same coiuse should be adopted. It has been a question Avith Siugeons, Avhether excision or amputation shoidd be done AA'hen the upper end of the shaft of the humerus has been much splintered, Avith or Avithout penetration of the joint. In these cases the epiphysis is often luiinjiued. Guthrie adrised amputation ; brrt the result of the experience of the Avar in America has beerr that five or six irrehes of the shaft of the humerus may be removed^ Avith perfect safety, arrd that no good comes of leaving the rrnirrjrued epiphysis, which should also be excised. The results of excisiorr of the joints of the upper extremity are in the highest degree satisfactory. Thus Bauderrs states that he saved 13 out of 14 cases of excision of the shorrlder. According to Thorrrtorr, in the British army in the Crimea, the shorrlder Avas excised 12 times with 2 deaths ; the elbow in 17 cases, of which txA'o Avere fatal; and partially in 5 other cases, all of which were snccessfrrl. These resrrlts, Avhich reflect the highest credit on the skill of our army Srugeorrs, Avero more successfrrl than those that followed the amputation of correspondiirg parts. Of GO disarticulations at the shoulder, 19, or 31 per cerrt., Avere fixtal; and of 153 amputatiorrs of the ar-m, 29, or 19 per cent., died. The resrrlt of resectiorr of these joirrts has rrot beerr qrrite so satisfactory clseAvhere . rrrs, iir the Corrfederate army iir America, Chishohn states that rrp to February, Fig. 95.—Bullet in Heiiil of Humerus.