397 FRAG TUBE OF BOF'ES OF THE FACE. paniccl by external n-ouiid, as in gnn-shot injnries of tlicse parts. More commonly the alveolar processes arc detaclied, and the teeth loosened. The treatment then consists in binding the teeth together with gold wire.i^In fractures of the zijgoma, the fi-ag-ments may be di'iTcn into the temporal muscle, and produce so much difficulty in mastication as to require removal. In some rare cases, all the bones of the face appear to have been smashed, and separated from the skull by the infliction of great violence. Thus, South relates the case of a man who was struck on the face with a handle of a crane, and in whom all the bones were separated and loosened, “ feeling like beans in a bag.” Vidal records the case of a man, who, by a fall from a great height, separated all his facial bones. A patient was admitted into University College Hospital under my care, who had fallen thirty feet over the balusters of a spiral staircase. He had in some way struck his face, either on reaching the gTOund or in the fall. He hved only about two hours after admission. On making a g>ost mortem examination, the foIlo^A^ng injuries were found. The lower jaAV was fractmed through the ramus on the left side, and through the body between the molar teeth on the right side. In the upper jaw a trans- A'erse fracture ran completely across fr’om one side of the face to the other, at about the level of the inferior border of the anterior nares. It passed through both superior maxiUaiy bones, the vertical part of the palate bones, both pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone on both sides, and the vomer; so that the whole of the alveolar portions of the superior maxilla and the palate formed one piece. This was displaced backwards into the pharynx. The zygoma Avas fr-actured on both sides ; and a vertical fractm-e ran on each side from the margin of the orbit through the walls of the antrum; so that on each side there was one huge fragment composed of part of the zygoma, the malar bone, and the part of the superior maxillary bone Avith which it is articulated. The nasal bones, the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones, the os unguis on each side, and the ethmoid, were smashed into numerous small fragments. There was no fracture visible from the interior of the skull. There were no other injuries of importance foimd. In Gun-Shot Injuries of the Face,, there is usually great splintering of the bone. As, however, the vitality of the part is great, necrosis is not so hkely to ensue here as elsewhere; and the partially detached and loosened fragments may accordingly be put baek into position, and wiU usually recoA’er themsefres. rhere are, however, two principal dangers in these cases ; viz., hasmon’hage, either primary or secondary, and abundant fetid muco-j)uriform discharge. The primary hmmoiThage usually ceases spontaneously, or on the application of cold. If secondary, it may be airested by cold, by plugging, and by pressm-e ; or, if continuous, and from deep soiu’ces, it may possibly require ligature of the carotid. The fetid secretion from these wounds is not only a somce of great discomfort to the patient, but of positive danger, as, by its miasmatic effluvia, or by finding its AA'ay into the stomach, it may occasion typhoid symptoms, this risk is best obviated by scrupulous attention to cleanliness, by repeated of'pob^T warm Avater, chlorinated lotions, or a solution of permanganate Loatou Jaav.—This bone is fr-cquently broken, OAviug to its prominent situa- tion ; though Its arched shape enables it to resist all but extreme degrees of