Til A UMATIC ANEURISM. ii6 Fig. 131. — Circmnscritied Trau- matic Aneurism in Ball of Tlmml) after a Powder-flask Explosion. the thumb, following serious injury to the hand from a powder-flask explosion. When it is connected with the superficial palmar arch I have, however, success- fully adopted the old operation of laying the tumour open, taking out coagula, and ligatiu’iiig the artery at the seat of injury. It is but rarely that this form of traumatic aneurism is coimected -with a large artery ; when it is, the vessel may be ligatured above, but close to the sac, in the same way as in the next variety. If this form of traumatic aneu- rism have increased greatly in bulk, so that the skin becomes thin and discoloiu’ed, or if in- flammation ensue, and symptoms of impending suppiu’ation take place around it, then it would be useless to hgatime the artery above the tumoiu-, as this would certainly give way, and secondary haemorrhage follow. Here the proper course is to lay open the sac, turn out the con- tents, and tie the artery above and below the part that is wounded. 2. The next form of circumscribed traumatic aneiu’ism is of rare occiuTence, and usually arises from a small puncture in a large artery, as the axillary or the carotid. The vessel bleeds freely ; but, the hfemorrhage being aiTested by pressure, the external wound and that in the artery close. The cicatrix in the artery gradually yields, forming, at the end of weeks or months, a tumom- which enlarges, dilates, and pulsates eccentrically, with distinct bruit, having aU the symptoms that characterise an aneurism from disease, and having a sac formed by the outer coat and sheath of the vessel. It is at first soft .and com- pressible on being squeezed, but becomes harder and firmer, and camiot be so lessened after a time. It consists of a distinct circimiscribed sac, formed by the dilatation of the cicatrix in the external coat and sheath of the artery, no blood being effused into the siuTounding tissues. The Treatment will vary according to the size of the tumour. ^ If this be small or but moderate in size, it consists in the hgature or compression of the artery leading to the sac, in accordance with the principles that guide us in the treatment of aneiu’ism from disease ; though, from the healthy state of the coats of the vessel, the artery may be hgatin-ed as near as possible to the sac. As there is a distinct cyst or sac in these circumscribed aneimsms, the changes that will be described in the chapter on the Treatment of Memisms in general take place; the tumom- graduaUy becoming consohdated, and eventuaUy absorbed. Should, however, the auem-ism have attained an enor- mous magnitude, or should it, fr’om being circumscribed, have become diffused by the rupture of the sac, then the tumour must be laid freely “le coagula turned out, and the artery ligatiu-ed as in the orduiaiy diffused aneurism. ARTERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS. A wound in an artery may communicate with a conespondiiig one in a contiguous vein, giving rise to two distinct forms o iscase neunsma