21 SECOXDAllY EFFECTS OF CHLOROFORM. stimulant ? In order to answer this question, let ns observe the condition ot a patient immediately after the performance of a severe operation as an amputation—^vithont his having been amesthetised ; and we shall find that, so far from having been restored or stimulated, he mil have been seriously depressed by it. The pulse will be small, feeble, and slow ; the_ s^face cold ; and the mind, perhaps, scarcely conscious : in fact, though a slight degree o pain, as a pinch or a prick, may act as a stimulant, very severe suffering is a most powerfrd depressing agent, capable in itself of destroying hfe._ ihe pain of an operation performed soon after the occurrence of a severe injuiy, so ^ ai fr-om ronsincr the patient, appears to me to act most injuriously, by infiicting a second shock upon the system before, perhaps, it has fairly recovered from the depressing effects of the fii-st; and it is by preventing this that chlorofonn is of such inestimable advantage. In these cases, it is not necessary to gn e chloroform to an extreme degvee of anaesthetisation. It is only requisite to give it to a moderate extent, chiefly so as to benumb sensation dining the incisions made through the skin. After this, and during the later stages of the operation, the inhalation may be suspended entirely, or nearly so. It is an interesting physiological fact, that the physical effect of shock is produced on the system even though the patient be completely anaesthetised. This is particularly noticeable in cases of castration in which, at the moment when the cord is cut, the pulse wiU be found to fall several beats or to stop momen- tarily, even though the patient be quite insensible. Hence, it may be argued that, although anaesthesia saves the patient that amount of shock which arises from pain, it does not relieve him of that which results from the physical impression produced on the system by a severe mutilation. Secondary Effects of Chloroform may develope themselves in connection ■with the head, the lungs, or the stomach. The liability to inconvenient secondary effects depends chiefly on two conditions : 1, on the mode of administration of the chloroform, especially on the care taken that there is an adequate supply of air admitted at the time Avhen the vapoiu is inhaled ; and 2, on the state of the patient as to age, habit, temperament, and digestion. Old people, habitual spirit-drinkers, and those of a bihous and sanguine temperament, are apt to suffer most. The condition of the digestion is of great importance. If chloro- form be given too soon after a meal, injurious results are sure to follow; hence, it is best administered on an empty stomach. Head-Complications chiefly follow the administration of chlorofoim in the aged. In them headaches and stupor not unfrequently supervene, and occa- sionally paralytic or apoplectic symptoms will develope themselves some days after the anesthesia. In young and nervous women hysterical symptoms often appear, and continue for some hours or even days ; but they need not excite uneasiness. The Inings probably always become slightly congested diu’ing the adminis- tration of chloroform. But, as recovery takes place, and the respiratory process is naturally re-established, the pulmonary vessels unload themselves, and no inconvenienee results. The process is greatly facilitated, and the effects of chloroform are readily got rid of, by desiring the patient to breathe several times fully and deeply after consciousness returns. In some cases the lungs do not unload themselves of the accumulated blood ; and a process