SOUBCE OF SEROUS DISCHARGE FROM SKULL. 543 1)0 ponvecl out ia tlivee clays. The flow is usually continuous for sec'eral days, ami tlien ceases. Altliougli the occurrence of a watery discharge from tlie ear after certain injuries of tlie head had been obsen'ed by Van der Wiel, O’Halloran, and Dease, in the early part and middle of tbe last centmy, no attention was paid to the subject by later surgical writers ; and the subject appears to have been completely lost sight of until Laugier, in 1839, again directed the attention of Siu’geons to this interesting phenomenon. tSince this period, it has been often observed and attentively studied ; and the nature and the soiu’ce of this dis- charge have l)een particularly investigated by Laugier, Chassaignac, Robert, Guthrie, and Hewett. Its physical and chemical characters are those of a per- fectly clear, limpid, and watery fluid, containing a considerable quantity of chloride of sodium, with a ^little albumen in solution, and some sugar. It is not coagulable by heat nor by nitric acid. The Source of this discharge has been the subject of much speculation. Laugier belie’^'ed it to be the serum of the blood filtered through a crack in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and so through the ruptm’ed membrane tympani. This explanation, however, is evidently not correct; for not only is blood extravasated in the living body incapable of this species of rapid and complete filtration, but the fluid differs altogether in chemical comjDosition from the serum of the blood, in containing a mere trace of albumen and double the quantity of chloride of sodium. By others it has been supposed that the fluid is fiu'uished by the internal ear, being a continuous discharge of the liquor Cotunnii; but its large quantity, and, above aU, the fact of its occasionally escaping through the nose, demonstrate the fallacy of this explanation. Again, it has been supposed, but without sufficient evidence, that the ca^-ity of the arachnoid frumishes this secretion. But the arachnoid does not secrete sufficiently to fm’nish the quantity of fluid discharged ; and if this membrane were iridtated and the secretion increased, it would become opaque from lymph or pus admixed mth it. I think, with Robert, that there can be little doubt that this discharge, in most cases at least, consists of the cerebro-spinal fluid ; for not only is it, in appearance and chemical composition, identical with this liquid, but there is no other source within the skull than the pia mater which can yield with equal rapidity so large a quantity of fluid ; experiment on animals having shown that the cerebro-spinal fluid is rapidly reproduced after its evacuation. An additional point of analogy between this discharge and the cerebro-spinal fluid is to be found in the fact pointed out by C. Bernard, that they both contain a small quantity of sugar. In order that the fluid be dis- charged, the membranes of the brain must have been torn opposite the outlet by which it is poured forth. This has actually been ascertained to be the case by carefully conducted dissections. Wien it is discharged through the eai-,’ the laceration, as B^rard has remarked, must have extended through the cul- de-sac of the arachnoid, which is iirolonged around the auditory nerve in the nitemal auditory canal. When it is poured out through the nose, the friicture las probably extended through the cribriform plate of the etlimoid bone and aid open the prolongation of arachnoid that suiTounds the filaments of the olfactory nerve. The diagnostic value of watery discharge fr-om the eai* varies, accordino- to