648 INJUIilES OF THE ABDOMEN AND FELVJS. pciitoiieiTiu liad better be left ; but should it be very exteusive, recoui’se’ juiglit be luid to the practice that was successfully adopted iu such circuui- stauces by Ward, of stitching up the apertiu-e iu this membrane. ihe after-treatment must be conducted in all respects on the same principles, as in the case of an intestine wounded without protruding. Care must be taken, by attention to the position of the patient, and by the free administra- tion of opium, to keep the bowel as quiet as possible near the external opening the mine should be ebawn off tmee iu the twenty-four hoius, and no purgative- whatever administered, lest by the excitation of peristaltic action adhesion be disturbed, and extravasation take place. After the lapse of six or eight days, an enema may be throwm up, and repeated from time to time. No food should be allowed for the first tln-ee days, during which time ice and barley-water should be freely taken ; after this, beef-tea, and light food that leaves no solid residue, may be given. It is of great importance that no solid food should be administered for at least two or three weeks after the occurrence of the injury.. In a case of wound of the intestine which was under my care, the patient, Avho. Avas progi’essiug very favomably, and eventually recoA^ered, nearly lost her life by eating the pulp of an orange on the tenth day. Traumatic Peritonitis is the great danger to be apprehended in all serious injuries of the abdomen, and it is by inducing this that extravasation of ffeces or of blood so fr’equently proves fatal. It is true that a certain degree of inflammation of the peritoneum is necessary for the heahng of all abdominal Avounds, but it must be limited in extent and plastic in character. It is the more diffuse form of peritonitis, attended by the exudation of tm-bid serum and shreddy ill-conditioned lymph, that is so speedily fatal. In these cases,. Ave meet with the ordinary symptoms of the idiopathic form of this affection uniform tenderness about the abdomen, but more particularly in the neighboin- hood of the injury, Avith occasional stabbing pains, followed by tympamtic. distension, vomiting and hiccup, a smaU, quick, hard pulse, often assuming a Aviry incompressible character, Avith considerable pyrexia, and great anxiety of coimtenance. This diffuse traumatic peritonitis Avill set in and nm its course- Avith great rapidity. In a case in University CoUege Hospital, already alluded to, of bullet-AVOund of the abdomen, the patient hA-ed tAventy-fom hours. Two or three pints of serous effusion with much puro-plastic matter Avere found ; and great reddening of the whole of the Aisceral and much of the paiietal peritoneum had ensued. In another case of ruptiu’e of the ileiun, the conse- cutive peritonitis proA’ed fatal in about thirty hom’s after the accident. This extreme rapidity in its comse and fatal termination, distinguishes traumatic from idiopathic peritonitis. To what is the rapid fatality of traimiatic peritonitis due ? It does not, as in the case of traumatic inflammations of the head and chest, cause death by the direct interference Avith organs, the healthy perform- ance of Avhose action is directly essential to the continuance of life. It is also far more rapidly fatal than any inflammation of the plema, peiicai’diimi, 01 arachnoid. May it not be due to some direct impression upon the sympathetic ganglia—to the collapse of nervous shock, associated Avith and intensified by an acute contiguous inflammation ? In some cases the disease assumes a moic chronic form ; and recovery occasionally takes place. In the less acute oim!> ol‘ the disease, where life is prolonged for many days or several weeks, effusion