435 FRACTURES OF SHAFT OF THIGH-BONE. to about tlu-ee-fourths of an inch, or an inch, with much eversion, and crepitus readily felt. This fractm-e, wiiich unites firmly and well by bone, must be treated in the same Avay as the last. Compound Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh-hone can only occiu- fi-om bullet-wounds. In these cases the choice lies between amputation at the hip-joint, resection of the injured portion of bone, or treating the case as an ordinary compoimd fracture. The choice of the Surgeon, for reasons stated at p. 233, lies behveen the latter two alternatives, which are the only ones that afford a reasonable hope of safety to the patient. Fracture of the Trochanter Major, by which this process is broken off ft-om the rest of the bone, is described by Astley Cooper, Aston Key, and N(ilaton as being always the result of direct violence. It may be simple or comminuted. The fi-agment is usually drawi upwards and backwards, rarely fonvards ; and more rarely it remains fixed by fibrous bands in its normal place. The symptoms are, separation betw^een the ft-agments ; and crepitus, which is most readily obtained by flexing and abducting the thigh and rotating it out- wai-ds, at the same time that the fragments are firmly pressed together. There is no shortening of the limb. The exact nature of the injury is often concealed by the swelling from extravasated blood. The fracture is very rare without accompanying ft’actiue of the neck. 2. Fractures of the Shaft of the Thigh-bone are of very common occur- rence ; every possible variety of the injury bemg met with here. They arc usually oblique, except in children, when they are commonly transverse, and iue often comminuted, double, or compound. The Signs are weU marked. There is shortening, usually to a considerable extent, with eversion of the limb, crepitus readily produced, and much sweUing fi'om the approximation of the attachments of the muscles. The lower fragment is always drawn upwards and to the inner or outer side of the upper one, and rotated outwards ; and when the fracture is high up there is a great tendency to angular deformity, in consequence of the projection forwards of the lower end of the upper ft-agment. In aU cases there is this forward projection, and in most an outward displacement or abduction as well of the upper fragment. But in some instances, though more rarely, it is drawn inwards as well as forwards. I have taken three opportunities of ascertaining by dissection the condition of parts that leads to the jwojection forwards and lateral displacement of the lower end of the upper fragment in fr’actiue of the femm*. The first case was that of an old man who died about three hours after meeting with a compomid com- minuted fracture of the middle and lower thirds of the right thigh-bone, and in whom eversion of the upper fragment was very distinctly marked. It Avas iound that the gluteus maximus and medius could be divided without affecting the position of the bone ; but when the gluteus minimus Avas cut across, it yielded somewhat. The pyrifonuis and external rotators AA^ere noAv felt to be excessively tense ; and, on cutting these across, the end of the fragment could at once be draAvn inAvards, all opposition ceasing. The projection forwards still remained, hoAvcver ; and this, Avhich Avas evidently due to the tension of the psoas and iliacus muscles, yielded at once on dividing them. It would thus appear that there must be a double displacement of the upper fragment; out- V F 2