598 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. occur in the cheek, as the result of injiuy or disease, allowing the escape of a small quantity of saliva. These openings are always healed uith difficulty : the edges becoming callous, and not readily taking on reparative action. Closure may be effected in some cases by cauterisation with nitrate of silver, or with a red-hot wire, due attention being paid to the general health. In other cases, the electric cautery may prove successful. It; however, the opening be free, with much indurated structure about it, it may bo necessary to excise a portion of the edges before bringing them together. Nose.—Foreign Bodies, such as pebbles, beads, dried peas, &c., arc occa- sionally met with in the nostrils of children, haA'ing been stuffed up in play, and becoming so firmly fixed as to require extraction by the Sm’geon. For this purpose a j>air of urethral or polypus forceps Avill usually be found con- A’enient. In some cases, hoAveA^er, a bent probe or an ear-scoop will remove the impacted body most easily. The Ears are not unfrequently loounded in injuries of the head and scalp ; a portion of the external ear being sometimes torn doAvn and hanging over the side of the face. In these cases, as in scalp-injuries, the part should ncA-er be removed, but, however lacerated and contused, should be cleaned and replaced by means of a few points of suture and strips of plaster. When the carti- laginous portion of the ear is divided, nice management is usually required in effecting perfect union. Foreign Bodies are often pushed into the ears of children. When pointed or angular, such as pieces of stick, they may readily be extracted with forceps ; but when round and small, such as pebbles or beads, they are not so easily remoA-ed. The foreign body may occasionally be removed by passing the bent ear-scoop round it. In some cases I have found an instru- ment (Fig. 257) made by Coxeter on the model of Cmale’s urethral scoop, useful in extracting a foreign body from the ear. It can be introduced straight and then passed beyond it, Avhen, by the action of a screw in the handle, the scoop is curved fonA'ards, and so enables extraction to be readily effected. But, as a rule, it is bad practice to attempt to remove foreign bodies from the ear by means of instruments ; in the majority of cases the offending body is best removed by forcibly syringing the ear Avith tepid Avater, injected by means of a large brass syidnge in a full stream, the pimia being di’aAATi up so as to straighten the external meatus. In this way the bead or pebble is soon washed out by the reflux of the water striking against the tympanum. It may be laid doAvn as a good general rule, that if a round or oval body cannot be dis- lodged by syringing it Avill not be removed by instruments, and if the proper use of the syringe do not suffice, it is better to leave ruatteis alone, and to aUow the foreign body to become loosened, than to poke instru- ments into the ear Avith the view of forcibly extracting it. These attempts are ill-advised ; and I have kiioiAm death to follow prolonged and uu- successfid efforts at the extraction of a pebble from the eai. , xi i • r^v Orbit.—Injuries of the Orbit may be dangerous, either to the brain or to the eye. If Avounds be deep and directed upiAards, they aie a \iays soiious. Fig. 257. Ear Scoop.