Fig. 239. —Subspinous Dislocation. Tlie Y-ligament is stretclied across the Neck of tlie Bone, whioli lies beneath it. (Bigelow.) reduction of old dislocations. 5°7 describes also Supraspinous Dislocation uitli or without rupture of the outer branch of the ligament. If this be not ruptured, the dislocation is caUed by him cintevior ohhQito: in it, the thigh lies across the upper part of the corresponding limb, and is hrmly locked in that position, m’th much shorten- ing and some eversion. Itcductioii may be clfected by extension of the limb and increased ciicumduc- tiou across the symphysis, with a little eversion if necessaiy to dislodge the head of the bone. By inward rotation, the head of the bone is throum on the dorsum. Ill the true suprasjnnous dislocation, the outer branch of the Y-ligament is ruptured : the limb is shortened and c’l'erted. In a case related by Cum- mins, the limb ji’as shortened three inches. Re- duction may be effected by ch’cmnduction mwards and eversion, by which the dislocation is rendered dorsal, and may be thus reduced as aheady directed. Everted Dorsal Dislocation may ocem.’ when, in dislocation on the dorsum, the outer branch of the Y-hgament is broken: the integrity of this portion being necessary for the inversion of the limb. Irregular Dislocations of the head of the thigh-bone occiu’ when the Y-ligament is wholly ruptimed. The displacement may take place in any of the above described directions : but the characters are inconstant. Reduction of old Dislocations of the Hip-joint is attended not only with great difficulty, but with no small amount of danger. The probabihty of effecting reduction rapidly decreases with the length of time that the bone has been left unreduced, and this more in some dislocations than in others. Thus it is easier to reduce an old dislocation on the dorsum ilii than one into the sciatic notch. Dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone on the dorsum of the ilium may usually be reduced uuthout any great difficulty, up to the end of the first fortnight. After that time the difficulty increases considerably ; and, although reduction has frequently been effected in these cases up to the sixth or eighth week, yet it has also not unfrequently failed, notwithstanding per- severing and repeated attempts. After two months have elapsed, the reduction is not only a work of gi’eat uncertainty, but also of no slight danger fi’om sup- pm’ation in the soft parts, or fracture of the femur; and it is then seldom practicable. But cases have been reported, and are refeiTcd to at p. 464, in Avhich these dislocations have been reduced at a much later period, even as late as six and nine months. If the bone be left permanently um’educed, it will in time acquire consider- able mobility, more particularly if lying in the sciatic notch, the patient walking readily uith a shortened but otherwise useful limb. The attempt to reduce old dislocations of the hip-joint is necessarily attended with more or less danger. In some cases the soft parts have been extensively lacerated ; in others fatal infiammation of the joint has ensued ; and, in elcA'cn