PYjEMIA. 7i6 noid, 01 tlie peritoneum may eacli be thus affected. In the pleura especially, these accumulations are frequent, and pyaemic empyema will often occur very suddenly with few, if any, general symptoms or local signs to indicate its piesence. It is then most frequently due to extension from a pyaemic abscess immediately beneath the pleura, or perhaps, to rupture of such an abscess into the pleural cavity. Frequently some of the joints, especially the knees and shoulders, become filled with a thin, yellow, purulent liquid. These arthritic abscesses are usually indicated by intense pain, often cutaneous or superficial, with fluctuation and swelling hi the joint. Often, however, large accumulations of pus form suddenly in joints, without haidng been preceded by pain or any other sigai of mischief ; in these cases the interior of the joint, though filled with pus, remains tolerably healthy, there being no erosion of cartilage or destruction of ligament, but merely some inflammatory injection of the synovial membrane. Not only are the appearances just mentioned commonly met with in cases of death from pymmia, but we find inflammation of the \iscera, more particu- larly of the brain and lungs, and not unfrequently a diffused erysipelatous redness of some membranous sm-face, as of the arachnoid or the gastro-intes- tinal mucous membrane. It must, however, be remembered, that in cases in wNich during life the skin has shown a marked yellowish tint, dark red ;post mortem stainuig, not only of vessels but also of the tissues smTOundiug them, will always be found very soon after death, often even before the body is cold, and this must not be mistaken for the results of inflammatory congestion. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of pyaemia requires to be made :—1, from ordi- nary Surgical Fever, the Inflammatory Fever wNich accompanies wounds and Injui’ies, and Typhoid Fever ; 2, from Ague ; 3, from Eheumatism. 1. The Diagnosis from ordinary Surgical Inflammatory Fever and Typhoid Fever is usually sufficiently easy, the comse of these fevers being unbroken by severe rigors, by sudden fluctuations of temperature, or by sweats. These symptoms, which are characteristic of pyaemia, do not occur in these other forms of febrile disturbance. An ordinary fever may be ushered in by a rigor; but this is seldom so intense as that which marks pyaemia, and certainly does not recur during the attack. The temperatme also in ordinary fevers is uniformly and continuously high. It is not marked by those sudden exacer- bations, followed by equally rapid declines, that are so characteristic of pyaemia. But it must be borne in mind that a pyaemic rigor may occur in the midst of the uniform high temperature of simple inflammatory fever, indicating the develop- ment of the blood-poisoning ; but then the decline is only to and not below the previous high level, and, unless the pyaemia become established, the rigor and rise of temperatme do not reem. 2. From Ague, which is indeed a form of blood-poisoning from vegetable decomposition, the diagnosis would not be easy in the earher stages, it the patient had been exposed to malarial influences as ivell as to the ordinary causes of pyaemia, as in a person injured whilst lii’ing in a swampy countiy. But, in large towns, the general absence of ague and the obvious surgical cause of the pyaemia wall render the diagnosis more easy. In the later stages, t le signs of articular inflammation and suppmation, the secondary a isceial an areolar abscesses, will all tend to clear up the diagnosis.