449 COMPOUND FRACTURE OF TIBIA. * of the upper fragment is liable to be thrust through the iiitegumciit, when the lower part of the limb lalls backwards as the injured person is being raised ott the ground. The fracture may, of course, also be rendered compound by the same direct ’\-iolencc that breaks tlie bone. The Treatment and probable result of the case will in a great measure depend upon the way in which the fracture has been rendered compound, and on the amount of the laceration and contusion of the integuments. When the wound in the integmnents is the result of their transfixion by the point of the upper fragment, it may commonly be closed by the first intention, by laying over it a piece of lint soaked in blood, tincture of bem:oin, or collodion, or by using Lister’s carbolic acid dressing, after reduction has been effected, and the limb put on a MTntyre’s splint, the lint being left undistiu-bed as long as possible. Or the limb may be put up in a starched or plaster of Paris bandage, in which a trap is cut to allow the dressing of the womid, as represented in Fig. 143, Should there be difficulty in jireventing the protrusion or in effectmg the reduction of the pointed fragment, this must be cleanly sawn off, oi the wound be enlarged so as to sink it, as directed at p. 382. In the event of there being great contusion and laceration of the soft parts, as when the fractiu'e is rendered compound by a waggon-wheel passing over the leg, it is useless to adopt the routine practice of attempting to close the wound by laying over it a piece of lint soaked in blood or collodion. It cannot imite, as in the other case, by the first intention. Suppmation must take place, and this is best met at once by the application of water-dressing after reduction. Indeed, in cases of this kind, the greatest danger results to the patient from the Surgeon plastering the Avound over with a piece of lint rendered hard and impervious by dried blood, or attempting its closine in any other way. The inflammatory discharges are prevented fr-om escaping ; and unhealthy pus or broken down blood accumulates in the hmb, which becomes greatly swollen, tense, red, painful, and hot. The patient becomes restless ; high in'itative fever is set up ; and, unless relief be given by the evacuation of the pent-up discharges, by opening up the wounds freely, and perhaps by free incisions and counter-openings as weU, the worst form of pyaemia mil almost inevitably ensue. .If the tibia be much comminuted and the fracture compound, the case is usually one for amputation ; but should the patient be young and Augorons, an attempt even in such cases may be made to save the hmb. Here a good deal may be done in the Avay of picking out detached sphnters of bone, and sawing off smoothly the jagged and pointed ends of the adherent fragments. The length of the tibia will thus be lessened, and the patient AviU recover Avith a necessarily shortened, but othei’Avise fii-m and useful limb. Care must be taken in the after-treatment of such cases that too effective extension be not kept up, lest a gap be left betAveen the fr’actured ends, Avhich cannot be filled up AAoth callus ; the consequence being that, in the attempt to obtain good length of limb, want or impciffection of consolidation results. In both the last classes of cases, tension of the limb from deep abscess, possibly requiring incision, may ensue ; or the consolidation of the fractiu’C and the healing of the wound may be retarded by necrosis of some of the splinters, or of the extremity of one of the fragments, generally the loAA’er one • VOL. I. *