770 TUMOUliS. removed with the tumour, it recun-ed before the wound healed, and, in spite of the free application of caustics, grew with enormous rapidity, in a few weeks forming a fungating mass as large as a foetal head. Myeloid or Giant-celled Sarcoma Avas formerly often classed under filjro- plastic tumours, and sometimes probably as soft cancer. It was described by Aberncthy under the name of “ albuminous sai’coma.” It aa\ss first fully described by Lebert, and its clinical and anatomical characters have been carefully in- vestigated by Paget. It is nearly related to the spindle-celled group of sarcomata. The most characteristic fcatime of myeloid tumours is the presence of large, many-nneleated masses of protoplasm—the so-called myeloid cells—somewhat resembling the cells found in the marrow of foetal bones (Pigs. 295, 296). They are often of great size, sometimes ^diameter. They are often extremely irregular in shape, having processes projecting from them in aU directions. The nuclei vary from eight or ten to thirty or forty in number, and are oval in shape, with distinct and highly refracting nucleoh. These myeloid cells are embedded in masses of spindle-shaped or roundish cells, between which there is either no intercellular substance, or merely a small quantity of homogeneous gelatinous material. These growths are extremely vascular, so much so, that the whole mass not nnfrequently pulsates distinctly. Myeloid tumours frequently contain cysts, often of considerable size. On section they present a soft gelatinous appearance and brittle structure ; they usually yield a shmy fluid on scraping, mixed with fragments of the tiunoiu ; they are of a pink colour at their growing margin, while the central parts are of an opaque yellow from fatty degeneration. The intermediate parts usually present patches of a dark maroon colour, caused by extravasations of blood. Occasionally patches of ossification may be foimd. Myeloid tmnonrs grow almost exclusively fr-om bone, and by far most frequently from the medullary cavity or cancellous tissue at the head of along bone. They grow to a large size, sometimes sloAvly and gradually, and at other timeswith very great rapidity. The growth gradually causes absoi-ptiou of the bone, but at the same time a iieAV deposit takes place rig. 295.—jMyeloid Sarcoma from the Lower Jaw (454 diam.) The small cells have shi-unk away from the myeloid ceUs, the former vaiy from found to spincUe .shape. Fig. 29G.—Constituents of a Myeloid Tumour (454 diam.) a o'. From a fresh .scraping. 7), c. From a stained section. (7. Transparent nuclei from a fresh scrai>iiig.