257 MODE OF DEATH FROM BURNS. ]im£?s or i)leura ; affections of the abdominal organs and brain being rare during this stage of the injury. Of 7 cases in -which the lungs -were examined, they -wore found to be liealthy in one only ; being hepatised, -with cffiision in the plcurm, in the i-cmaining 0 cases. Of 7 cases in -which tlie abdominal organs Avere examined, a healthy state Avas found in 4 ; inflammatory congestion in 2 ; and a cica- trised ulcer ill the stomach in 1. Of o of the cases the cerebral contents Avere found healthy in 1 only ; there being inflammatory congestion in the other 4. PiiOGXOSis.—The influence of extent, degree, and situation, on the prognosis of bums has already been stated. The most fatal element indeed of these iiijm-ies is siq)erficial extent. It is generally believed by Surgeons that recovery cannot take place if one-third of the siuface of the body be scorched or burnt. Not only do the cutaneous nerves become gveatly imitated, and the nerAUUs system generally suffer severely, from the shock of an extensiA’C bium ; but, OAviiig to the arrest of the cutaneous secretion over a large siuface of the skin, congestion of the internal organs and of the mucous membranes ensues ; hence death may happen directly from this cause, or from the supervention of in- flammation in the already congested parts ; more particularly in the early periods of life, when the balance of the circulation is readily disturbed. The degree of burn influences the prognosis unfaA'oiuably rather so far as the part itself is concerned, than as the general system is affected. The most fatal in cases of biun is the fii-st week after the accident. I find that, in 50 cases of death fr’om these accidents, 33 proA'ed fatal before the eighth day ; 27 of these dying before the foiuth day. Of the remaining 17 cases, 8 died in the second week, 2 in the third, 2 in the foiuth, 4 in the fifth, and 1 in the sixth. Mode of Death, from Burn.—I^Tien in an ordinary conflagration a person is “ burnt to death,” the fatal ei’ent is occasioned not by the charring, roasting, or actual iucremation of the body, but by the induction of asphyxia. Life is mercifully extinguished by suffocation in the smoke, gases, and noxious A’aj)om*s lesultiiig from the fire, before the body itself is consumed. To what particular pioduce of combustion the asphyxia is due, is somewhat undecided. There is reason to beliei’e that in most cases it is carbonic oxide rather than carbonic acid that suffocates. I\Tieu a person is scA'erely and extensiinly burnt, and dies in the coiuse of a eu horns, or a day or two, death arises usually from shock, Avhich is most BCA ere and contiuuous. Dupuytren aaus of opinion that dining this stage the su eiei ^ ied from the excessii'e pain, and stated that “too great a loss of sensi- lality might kill as Avell as too great a loss of blood.” Whether this be so or not, it is peihaps difficult to say ; but the fact remains certain that, in indi- Ai lias AA 0 die dining this stage, the brain and its membranes wiU invariably le ouuc congested, usually AVith more or less effusion of serous fiuid into the Acn lie es and the arachnoid. This I have invariably found in every case that aie examined. In one half of the cases I hain found congestion of the oiacic and in the majority congestion of the abdominal organs, more ‘ pecia yo the mucous membrane of the stomach and ileum. Death dinino- partieSv of tf mtQvml inflammation, more qucntlv onho , ^^^^cous membrane and lungs, and less fr-e- ^ VOL f membranes. If the patient sun-ive into the period s