IiYJURIES OF THE HEAD. 542 the Hospital, there were htEmon-hage into the left orhit and fi'om the left nostril, copious vomitino- of blood, and bleeding ftora the rig-ht ear, following a blow upon the forehead. The diagnosis which was made during life, and Avhich was verified after death, was a fissure of the skull extending through the left orbital plate of the frontal bone, the ethmoid, and proljably the sphenoid on that side, and a fracture of the petrous portion of the right temporal bone. 2. The Discharge of a thin Watery Fluid from the interior of the skull sometimes occurs ; and, Avhen it happens, it is the most certain sign of ft'actiu’e of the base that we possess. This discharge usually takes place through the ear ; but it may occim from the nose, of which I have seen one instance, and Robert mentions another. Still more rarely it takes place fr'om a wound in the scalp communicating with the fr’actime ; percolating through this, and so being poured out externally. Cases of this kind have been de- scribed by Hey, O’Callaghan, Robert, Hewett, and other Simgeons. One such instance was communicated to me by one of the pupils of University College, a few years ago. A boy received a wound on the back of the head, with depressed and comminuted fracture of the skull. On the nineteenth day after the receipt of the injmy, a large quantity of serous fluid began to escape thi'ough the wound, and continued to do so profusely until his death fr-om ■coma "four days later. At first the fluid that is discharged is usually tinged with blood, but this soon ceases, and it then flows clear. There would consequently appear to be thi-ee situations—the ear, the nose, and a w'ornid on the vault of the cranium—fr-om which this discharge has been ■obsei-A-ed. It is an exceedingly valuable though most serious sig-n; and Robert, who has inA'estigated this phenomenon with much closeness, states that the cases in which it happens always terminate fatally. This, however, is an ■error ; for a number of cases have occurred at the University College Hospital and elsewhere, in Avhich the patients, adults, recovered, although many omices of fluid were discharged fr-om the ear. It is usually associated with symptoms indicatHe of serious injm-y tq, the base of the brain ; but to this there are also exceptions, for I have seen it in cases of injin-y of the head, unaccompanied by any severe cerebral symptoms. Most generally it occiu-s in young- peo]jle. Robert says that it does so invariably ; but Hewett states that in most of the instances in which he has seen it the patients were above thu-ty years of age.^ In one of the cases that I have witnessed, the patient was flfty-eight yeai-s of ao-e ; and in six other instances in which I have observed it, the patients were aU adults. In all cases of recovery that I have witnessed, some deafness of the ear fr-om which the discharge occurred has been left ; but the hearing, though usually lost, does not always appear to be destroyed in the ear from which the discharge takes place. ’ The ^Quantity of fluid that is thus discharged is always very considerable, the pillow usually becoming soaked by it, ivhich may be the first thing to attract attention to it. It is often necessary to keep a piece of sponge or a pledget of lint against the ear, in order to prevent the fluid from wetting the patient as it trickles out ; and, if a cup be so placed as to collect it or two will speedily accumulate. Laiigier states that he has seen a tiimblcrtul discharged in a short time, and as much as twenty ounces have been known to