164 ULCERATION. s>'iving rise to gramilation-cells, to pns-cells, to c})idermis, and to fibro-eelhilar tissue. The development of vessels in granulations—a most wonderful and beautiful process, by wbicb thousands of vessels may form in a day on a healthy gi-anu- lating surface—is identical -with their general development in lymph, which will be described in Chapter VII. ; a series of loops and arches being formed as outgrowths from neighboming vessels. The sensibility of gi-amdations varies considerably, being often greatest in those which spring from tissues that are naturally the least sensitive, as bone for instance. No nerves have been traced in granulations ; hence their appa- rent sensibihty would appear to depend upon that of the subjacent inflamed tissues. The cluiraders of granidations afford important indications to the Surgeon as to the condition of the surface from which they spring, and the state of the patient’s general health. Glranulations indicative of a healthy local and con- stitutional condition are small, florid, pointed, closely set, and bathed with healthy pus ; the use of Avhich appears to be to cover and protect the tender siu’face vdth a soft lubricant coating, into which the granulations may sprout Avithout being dried by the air, or readily damaged in any other way. In a weak state of the sore, or of the constitution, the secretion of pus diminishes, and it loses its healthy character ; the granidations become large, pale, and flabby, appearing to be oedematous fr-om infiltration of serum, and asstuning a glassy or semitransparent look, with a piu-phsh hue. Occasionally harmoirhage takes place into them, and they become bi oken dov n and sloughy. If, whilst a sore is healthily granulating, morbid action be set up in it, or in the economy—as by the supervention of erysipelas or fever the granulations degenerate at once, and become rapidly absorbed, the sm-face of the sore assuming a greyish, sloughy look, and the formation of pus being arrested. The Healing Process, or Cicatrisation, is that by which the ulcer closes and becomes covered by an integmnental investment. Two distinct processes, thouo-h carried on simidtaneously, are necessary for the accomphshment ot this.^ These are, that the granidations assume a healthy character, and cover themselves with new cuticle ; and that the sm-face of the sore contracts. The first change that takes place in an idcer that is about to undergo the heahno- process, is that the granulations become florid, and are bathed with healthv pus • the edges and surface of the sore then assume the same level- the gmmUafene lismg, and the edges subsiding. So long as there ,s any inequahty in this respect, the process of cicatrisation cannot go on. The granulations nearest the edges become smooth, oea® to pom- out tlazed over with a thin, whitish-blue pellicle—which is the ilist appeaiance ot Sew cuticle-composed of graniilation-ceUs developing^ trisation advances, the part of the sore mnncdiately inside this line will be seen to be occupied by a red cone, which, m the course of fom-a 1- twenty houi-s, becomes, in its tirni, new epidermis, and appeai-s to be the Imh between granulation and true cuticle. At tesame time that these changes are going on, contraction of the sore takis place. This would appear to be entirely a mecbanical process, and not reaction 1 it is owing'to the conversion of the eviidation-cclls of the