MODIFICATIONS OF LIGATURE. 291 culamous section, as it were, is elfecteci; and this, like all similar wounds, takes on adhesive action. The adhesion between the coats is much facilitated by the pressm-e of the ligature, which acts as a support to the A'essel. The best material for Vujaiure, when applied to the continuity of an artery, is dentist’s silk, compressed whipcord, Avell Avaxed, or carbolised catgut, tied in a knot, as represented in fig. llf. Much ingenuity has been expended in devising instruments for passing the ligature under the artery. In the majority of cases the common aneurism-needle—Avell ground doAvn, but rounded at its extremity is all that is required. Occasionally it maybe adA'antageous to use a needle with a small curve. Many ingenious contrivances have been devised by Trant, Weiss, Coxeter, and others, for seizing and draAving forward the noose from the bottom of the wound. After the ligature has been passed under the vessel it should be tied tightly with a reef-knot, and both its ends left hanging out of the Avoimd. The limb should then be elevated and be lightly covered AAuth a piece of flannel, or cotton-Avadding ; cai’e being taken not to apply pressure of any kind. Modifications of the Ligature.—With the view of diminishing or re- moving the various inconveniences, real or supposed, that result from the use of the ligatiue, and especially AAuth the object of promoting union of the Avound by the first intention, four methods haA'e been employed by Surgeons :—1, The use of Temporaiy Ligatures; 2, Cutting the Ends off close to the Knots; 3,’ The use of Wire to tie the ai-tery; and 4, The employment of materials for the Ligatm-e that might be Absorbed in the Wound. 1. The use of the Temporary Ligature in one of its modifications has already been attended to. This subject fully occupied the attention of Surgeons m this coimtry nearly half a century ago, and has now in a great measure become matter of history, for the study of which I must refer to the writings I however, state, that the general the foUoAAoAg^^^^^™^^^^ experience derived on this subject, is cmotid arteiy of a horse at tln-ee or form different points, with as many liga- expertaen^s, as foifoncVoTI left in for several hours, or even Chert C, r' ‘'™"™ ’ of the artery ensued, llohclts applied a ligature to the femoral artery for popliteal aneui-ism and irSy 1/1 ir 'r bmir« oKf • 1 ^ oian, and, on removing the ligature at the end of ScarpL andTltZ I'esult. Their example was followed by TCC ’’f ™ i-i observation of Vacca that if nZZ' i T ’1 Travers lumself, and the oanseltsehllteratl„„;r;ll-S^^^^^^^ U 2