7i8 PYuEMIA. 2. The formation of Thromlii, and the changes which take place in them, leading to Embolism or Metastatic Deposits. 3. An absoiption of ichorous or putrid matter, and the commingling of this with the hlood-strcam, producing the condition called Icboi*rb8emia or Septicaemia. It ■will be desirable to consider these three conditions and their consequences seriatim. 1. Leucocytosis, or increase of the white corpuscles, with a coiTcsponding increase in the amount of fibrine in the blood, is dependent upon an over- action of the lymphatic glands, arising from an irritation applied to a part fi*eely supplied with lymphatic vessels. The character of the iii’itation has, however, an important influence in determining the occuivence of this condi- tion ; thus, an erysipelatous or diffuse phlegmonous inflammation, affecting at an early period the lymphatic vessels and glands, may be expected to produce leucocytosis far more rapidly and certainly than a superficial inflammation of the skin due to traumatic or other simple causes. In consequence of the adhesive character of these white corpuscles, they may often be found, when present in considerable numbers, to be collected into masses or groups attached to the walls of the vein, thus giving rise to the belief that they are really pus- corpuscles, from which indeed they are indistinguishable, and that they are the products of inflammatory changes in the walls of the vessels. This may be well seen in any part w^here coagulation has taken place, the clot presenting a layer of milky whiteness due to the entanglement of the white corpuscles in the meshes of the flbrine. It cannot be doubted that any considerable increase in the numbers of bodies possessing such marked powers of adhesion, both to one another and to the walls of the vessels, must tend to diminish the freedom of the circulation through the smaller vessels and capillaries, and thus facili- tate the occmrence of stasis in the vessels. This condition of the blood seems to be connected with a state of general depression, and a pallor or a certain yellowness of the skin. How far it is connected ^vith the formation of the metastatic and secondary abscesses characteristic of the true pytemic state, is not yet deteimined ; although the demonstration of the passage of the white corpuscles through the walls of the vessels, and their further development into pus-corpuscles, renders the view suificieiitly plausible, that some such connec- tion exists. 2. The subject of Thrombosis and Embolism is one of the most impor- tant that can engage the attention of the scientific Surgeon, as upon a ftfll comprehension of the circumstances attending these processes will in great measure depend his knowledge of the pathology of this disease. The which lead to the formation of a thrombus or clot in a vessel arc of three kinds, viz.— a. Ketardation of the blood-stream ; due to (a) Diminished ms a iei'go; (|3) Diminished calibre of the vessel ; (y) Interruption of its continuity. t. Changes in the condition of the wall of the vessel, or the presence of foreio-n bodies ; due to (a) Imperfect nutrition of the wall of the vessel, com- plete‘"or incomplete ; Injuries to the wall, or presence of foreign bodies. c. Altered conditions in the blood itself; due to (a) Leucocytosis ; (/3) Scpticccmia.