TUMOURS. liahility to constitutional infection and wide-spread local contamination will )jc less in proportion to the early remo'S'al of the morbid mass. EPITHELIOMA. Epithelioma, though closely allied to the true cancers, differs from them in so many important respects that it requires to be considered as a distinct affection. It resembles the true cancers in its tendency to local infiltration and ulceration, in its extension to the lymphatic system, and in the induction of death by cachexy. It differs from them in its anatomical structure, in being ini’ariably seated in the mucous, muco-cutaneous, and more rarely the cutaneous structures—always primarily on a mucous or cutaneous surface, where epithelial cells are natimally found, and in its being rarely attended by secondary deposits in the yiscera. Some Avriters haA'e gone so far as to deny any relationship betAA'een epithelioma and the true cancers, and others again have looked upon it as a semi-cancerous formation (cancroid of Virchowj ; there can be no doubt, howei'er, that it is a true cancer, for forms intermediate in structure between it and sciiThus are not unfrequently found. Epithelioma must be carefully distinguished from simple papilloma ; though this is not ahvays easy, for as on one side epithelioma may merge into scirrhus, on the other it passes by insensible gradation towards the simple wart. In epithe- lioma the epithehum is found not oidy groAving on the surface of the skin or mucous membrane, but forcing its Avay downwards amongst the parts beneath in cylindrical or irregular processes, forming so-called cancer-cylinders. Probably many tumoiu’s, ultimately cancerous, pass through a stage undistin- guishable from a simple warty growth. Situation and Progress.—Epithehoma, rare in the young, is common in middle-aged or elderly people, the tendency to it increasing in proportion as age adA’anccs. In this respect it follows the course of other cancers. It is generally occasioned by the long-continued or frequently repeated appheation of some source of irritation, and may thus be established in constitutions other- wise perfectly healthy. Thus, the irritation of a broken tooth upon the tongue or cheek may produce epithehoma of those parts. The scrotum in chimney- SAveepers not unfrequently becomes the seat of epithelioma, in consequence of the lodgment and irritation of soot in its rugte. The muco-cutaneous smfaces are its true habitat; it chiefly occurs in the lips (Fig. 310), tongue, mouth, eye- lids, penis. Angina, and anus. It is, hoAvever, also met AAuth in the cutaneous surfaces of the face, the hands, the feet, and the scrotmn ; and, indeed, may occur upon any cutaneous surface, although there can be no doubt that those tubercles and malignant ulcerations that occur in the purely cutaneous sm- faces of the extremities and trunk are occasionally sciirhous. It commences either as a small flat tubercle or wart, AA'hich rapidly ulcerates ; oi it appears from the first as an intractable fissure or ulcer of limited size, Arith hard and everted edges, and a foul surface. Such an ulcer as this may not only attack and destroy the soft parts in its neighbourhood, but may equally pioduce its destructive action on bones, penetrating deeply into their structure and eroding them. It sloAvly spreads, and appears at first to be local; but after a time, contaminating the glands in the neighbourhood, it induces cachexy, anc