332 ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. CHAPTER XVII. ♦ ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. The Entrance of Air into a "WoundecI Vein, thougli an accident of rare occurrence, is one that occasions such peculiar and alarming symptoms, that it becomes necessary to be acquainted Avith the circumstances attending it; and its study is the more interesting to the practical Siu’geon, as it is chiefly in the course of operations that this condition occm-s. In siu'gical practice, we meet only with sjmitaneous admission of air into the circulation. This was first observed in the year 1818, in a case in which the internal jugular vein was opened during the removal of a large tumour from the right shoulder by Beauchesne. The investigation of this subject is con- sequently a comparatively recent matter, in Avhich the labours of the Commis- sioners of the French Academy are conspicuous, and the names of Magendie, Amussat, Cormack, and Wattmann are distinguished. Results op Experiments on Animals.—As cases of the entry of air into the A-eins comparatively seldom occiu- in man, it is necessary to study the phenomena accompanying it on the lower animals. It has long been knoAvm to physiologists that the forcible introduction of air into the circulation would kill an animal; and Morgagni, Valsalva, Bichat, and Nysten have made this a subject of observation and experiment. The death of the animal in these cases appears to be dependent partly on the quantity of air injected, and partly on the rapidity Avith which it is thrown in. Bichat supposed that a single bubble injected into the cu’culation killed the animal Avith the rapidity of lightning ; but this is erroneous, as shoAAui by Nysten. I have on several occasions injected two or three cubic inches of air into the jugular vein of a dog, without producing death, though much distress resulted. The rapidity Avith which the air is throAvn in exercises a considerable influence upon the result. If bloATO in quickly, a small quantity may kill; if throAAm in^ slowly and graduaUy, a large quantity may be injected Arithout destroying hfe, the blood appearing to absorb and carry away the gaseous fluid. In experiments Avhich I have made on the subject, I have observed the following phenomena in cases Avhere death Avas produced. On exposing the internal jugular vein Ioav in the neck, and puncturing it at a place where the flux and reflux of the blood are plainly discernible, there is perceived in the first inspiratory effort made by the animal after the woimd, a pecuhar lapping or gurgling hquid, hissing sound; the na tine of the souu depending partly on the size and the situation of the opening in the vesse . 11 the same time, a fcAV bubbles of air are seen to be mixed with bloo at t e orifice in the vein. The entrance of the air is immediately followed by a struggle, during the deeper inspirations of Avhich, fresh quantities of air gam