9o6 diseases of THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ],)attlos, as Chilianwallah and Fcrozej)oro, where the wounded lay exposed to cold nights after very hot days (Macleod), tetanus was of very frequent occur- rence. The case appears to have been different in America, where' tetanus does not seem to have arisen from exposure of the wounded to cold and night- air. Chisholm states that although, from the v^ooded nature of the country in which the battles Avere often fought, Avounded men were not unfrequently left for two or three days on the ground, tetanus did not appear to be more frequent amongst them than in those immediately cared for. Hennen states that a draught of air, Avhether hot or cold, directly bloAAung on the patient, is the most fertile cause of tetanus. The frequency Avith which tetanus occiu’s varies much. It often happens that not one case occurs in a hospital for some years, and then several are met Avith in close succession or simultaneously. Period oe OccurrejSTCE.—Tetanus may take place at any period after the infliction of the wound that occasions it. In hot climates especially, it may occur very speedily ; thus, Eobinson relates the case of a negro servant in the West Indies, who scratched his finger with a broken plate, and died of tetanus in a quarter of an hour. It is very seldom, however, in temperate chmates, that it supervenes before the foiu’th or fifth day, usually from that to the tenth day. Larrey, who had great experience of this disease during Napoleon’s campaigns in Egypt, met with it most frequently between the fifth and fifteenth days after the infliction of the wound. According to the experience of the Surgeons of the Peninsrdar War, under whose observation many hundred cases came, the disease does not show itself after the twenty-second day ; but, though this may be the general rule. Sir G. Plane has related a case in which it took place as late as a month after the infliction of the wound. It is stated that it may occur after the cicatrisation of a Avound is completed ; when this happens, the disease must rather be looked upon as being idiopathic, acciden- tally occurring in a person who has been recently injured. Forms.'—Tetanus may be Acute or Chronic; being in some instances fatal in the course of a few hours, but usually lasting for three or four days. Poland states that at Guy’s 51 per cent, of the cases were fatal before the fifth day after invasion. If the patient survive this time, the disease will commonly Tim on to the eighth or tenth day, and occasionally even for a longer period than this ; thus, S. Cooper mentions a case in which it continued in a soldier for fi\'e weeks after amputation. The more chronic it becomes, the better is the chance of recovery ; indeed, if the patient survive the tenth day, the prospect of a faA'ourable issue to the case is materially increased. As a general rule, those cases are the most fatal which are most actNe in their symptoms ; the dano'er beinc in the ratio of the acuteness of the attack, both as to severity and also as to rapidity of invasion after injury. Symptoms.—The invasion of the disease is sometimes preceded by a general irneasiness on the part of the jratient, a feeling of iUness or Aveakness, or a sense of impending mischief. Abernethy was of opinion that tetanus was usualh ushered in by a disturbed state of the digestive organs, the stools being offen- siA’e and indicath’e of much gastric in'itatiou. When the disease sets in gTadually, it may be somewhat diificult of recognition in its early stages ; if it come on suddenly, its nature is immediately eAldent. It is a remarkable fact