INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 614 siicceodcd, as in a case in Avliicli Walters, of Eoigate, removed a tracbea-tnbe tbat bad accidentally slipped five inebes into tbc air-passage, tbe uncertainty and danger of such a proceeding are so gTeat tbat foAv Surgeons will be disposed to attempt it ; tbe introduction of tbe forceps producing violent irritating’ cougb, diming wbicb tbeir points might readily be driven tbrougli tbe bronclifi and tbns ivound tbc lung or contiguous important structiu-es. Besides this, tbere would be tbe danger of seizing tbe projecting angle at tbe bifurcation of tbc bronchi instead of tbe foreign body, and thus injm’ing tlie parts seriously. If tbe foreign body be fixed, the safer plan ivill certainly be to leave tbe aper- ture in tbe trachea unclosed, and wait for tbe loosening of the body and its ultimate expulsion, ivbicb have hitherto occiuTcd in all cases tbat liave been operated on; or its escape might be facilitated by the gentle introduction of a probe, so as to dislodge it if seated in either bronchus, though this should be done Avitb great caution; or tbe patient may be inverted and succussed, Avben tbe expulsion may take place. Should it not then escape, tbe wound should be kept open by means of blunt books, when, perhaps, it may be ejected. Antiphlogistic treatment must be continued during tbe whole progress of tbe case. After tbe escape of tbe foreign body, tbe opening in tbe trachea, must be closed. Scalds op the Mouth, the Pharynx, and the Glottis, occasionally occur from attempts to swallow boiling water ; or these parts are scorched by tbe inhalation of hot air or flame. The scalding chiefly happens to the chil- dren of tbe poor, who, being in tbe habit of drinking cold water from tbe spout of a kettle, inadvertently attempt to take a draught from tbe same soimce vEen tbe vmter is boiling. The hot liquid is not swallowed, but, though imme- diately ejected, has scalded tbe inside of tbe month and pharynx, giving rise to much inflammation, which, extending to tbe glottis, may produce oedema of it, and tbns speedily destroy fife by suffocation. In three cases Avliicb I exa- mined after death, tbere was no sign of inflammation beloAv the glottis, though the lips of this apertin-e were greatly swoUen ; and this I believe to be invari- ably the case, the inflammation not extending into the interior of the larynx,, as was pointed out by Marshall Hall. The accident always reveals itself by very evident signs ; the interior of the month looks white and scalded, the child complains'^of great pain, and difficulty of breathing soon sets in ; which, unless efficiently refleved, may terminate in speedy suffocation. In those cases in Avhich these parts have been similarly injm-ed by the flame produced by the cxiflosion.of gas or of flre-damp being sucked into the month, the same condi- tions present themseh’es. . 1 i In the Treatment of this injmy, the mam point to attend to is to subdue tlie inflammation before it involves the glottis to a dangerous extent. With this A-iew leeches should be freely applied to the neck, and calomel Avith antimony administered. If symptoms of urgent dyspnoea have set m, tracheotomy must be perfomed mthont delay ; and, if the child be not too yo.mg, m.jet be introduced into the aperture so made, and kept there nntil ‘ “ " about the glottis has been subdued by a eoutmuance ot the ® treatment. In the majority of the cases, hoiverer that have obsen-ation, in tvhich this operation h.as been pertonned, the issue has been