2II TREATMENT OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. the limit of the tissues that are actually mortified is greatly swollen by cedema- tous infiltration, tense and pitting slightly on pressm-e, usually mottled in colour of shades of gi-eenish or greyish yellow, like a bruise that is passing off. This oedema and peculiar discoloration extend higher along the iimcr side of the limb, where it ahvays first reaches the trimk. Emphysematous crackling rapidly spreads itself along the same parts, and the gangrene here travels with gi-eat rapidity, hopelessly involving the tissues and entering into the areolar planes of the axilla or groin in a very few hours. As the gangrene advances, the parts affected fall into a soft, pulpy, black mass. On making an incision into the parts so affected, it wU be found that the gangrenous disorganisation is primarily seated in the areolar planes of the limb, and that the muscles are not affected in the first instance. It vrU also be observed that the disease extends itself through the areolar tissue, the skin falling secondarily into slough. The constitutional symptoms are throughout of the loAvest ataxic type ; and death almost invariably ensues in three or fom’ days after the invasion of the disease, and always very shortly after the gangrene has reached the trank. Treatment of Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—In the treatment of the slighter form of these hijirries, we must bear in mind the occurrence of the two distinct periods: 1, that of sloughing; and 2, that of granulation. There is also in all injiules of this description a special tendency to the occmrence of eiysipelas and allied diseases. Care must be taken to clean the parts thoroughly from foreign bodies that are fr-equently impacted or ground into them. However contused and tora a flap of skin may be, it should, as a general rule, never be separated, provided it maintain any attachment to the neighboiuing tissues, but should always be re- placed on the chance of its vitahty being preserved. If it live, as it will often do, especially about the scalp, imder apparently the most discoiuaging circum- stances, much will be gained ; if it slough, no harm can result from the attempt to preserve it. There are even cases on record in which parts that have been completely separated have become attached, by being immediately reapphed to the surface from which they had been torn. IVhether this be actirally the case or not, it is at all cAcnts certain that a very small tongue of skhi is sufficient to maintain^ the vitality of a part. This we see exemplified in the operation for the restoration of a lost nose ; and cases have occiured to me in which the nose, nearly cut off, being only retained by a portion of one ala, has readily united on being replaced ; so hkevise, in bad cases of compound dislocation of t e fingers, the part has been saved, though merely attached by a narrow bridge ot skin. After a part has been replaced in this way, it should be retained fri situ by a few points of inteiruptcd suture, with a piece of lint soaked in collo- dion apifiicd to the line of wound. The sutiues must be left in for a somewhat onpr time than usual, until good union has resulted. The hfemon'hao-o as e ore mentioned, is as a rule easily controlled ; position, application of*^cold an the subsccpient bandaging being sufficient in the majority of cases. IWiei/ owe^er, the blood is bright-coloured and continues to drip fr-om the wound^ a \essel of some size has been divided : this should bo searched for, and the opening closed by torsion or ligature. In ordinaiy cases of contused or lacerated wounds, whether superficially P 2