6io INJURIES OF THE THROAT. accompanied by mncb difficulty of breathing, a feeling of sulfocation, and an appearance of urgent distress in the countenanee. These attacks do not occur when the patient is tranquil, but come on whenever the foreign body is coughed up so as to strike the larynx, and the upper and more sensitive parts of the air- passage. As a general rule, the distress is less, the lower the substance is lodged ; the sensibility of the lower portion of the trachea and that of the bronchi being much less acute than that of the larynx and of the upper part of the trachea. In consequence of the irritation, there is usually abundant expectoration of frothy mucus. These symptoms often remit for a time, more particularly if the foreign body become fixed. In some cases indeed, there appears to be so little distress some days after the accident, that considerable doubt may exist whether any foreign body really be lodged in the air-passage or in the lungs ; and much valuable time is often lost by the indisposition of the Surgeon to adopt active measimes. The Auscultatory Signs depend necessarily upon the situation of the foreign body. If this be loose and floating, it may be heard, on applying the ear to the chest, moving up and doAvn, and occasionally striking against the side of the trachea. If it be fixed, it vdll necessarily give rise to a certain degree of obstruction to the admission of the air beyond it, perhaps occasion- ing bniits dining its passage. If it be impacted in the larynx, the voice will be hoarse and croupy, and there wiU be a loud rough sound in resphation, Avith much spasmodic cough and distress in breathing. If it be impacted in one bronchus, the respiratory murmin will be much diminished, or even absent, in the corresponding lung, and probably puerile in the other ; whilst percus- sion will yield an equally clear and sonorous sound on both sides of the chest, air being contained in the lung of the obstructed side, but not readily passing in and out. If one of the subdivisions of either bronchus be occupied by the foreign body, the entrance of air mR be prevented in the corresponding lobe of that lung, though it enter freely every other part of the chest. If the foreign body be angular, or, perforated, peculiar sibilant and whisthng noises may be heard as the air passes over and through it. 3. Inflammation.—^After a foreign body has been lodged for a day or two, inflcmimation of the IroncM or lungs is apt to be set up ; in some cases, how- ever, this only occins after a considerable time has elapsed, or, perhaps, not at all much depending, of coimse, on the shape and character of the irritant. If it continue to lodge, it generaUy forms for itself a cavity in the substance of the luno-, whence pimulent and bloody matters are continually expectorated, until th^patient dies of phthisis in the comse of a few months, or a year or two. Occasionally, however, the substance has been coughed up after a lery louo- lodgment, the patient recovering. Thus, Tulpius relates a case m v hic ^ a nut-shell was coughed up after being lodged for seven years ; and Heckster one in which a ducat was thus brought up after a lapse of two years and a half • the patients, in both instances, recovering. In other cases death may ensue although the foreign body is coughed up ; thus Sue relates an instaiic in which a pigeon-bone was spat up seventeen years after its introduction, the natient however, dying in little more than a year from marasmus. ^ depends more upon the natnre of the fore,gn body and its Bine to on any other circmnstances. If it be rongh. angular, and hard,