DISCHARGES FROM ^YOTJNI)S. 205 TDCcnliar soft ciystals of horacic acid. If decomposition be present on tlic Lrface of the womid or ulcer, the sore should be first washed with a strong- solution of chloride of zinc or of carbolic acid, the boracic solution not beini-- sufficiently powerful for the purpose. As boracic acid is to be used only when the wound has become a superficial sore the use of the spray is unnecessary. ‘Another Taluable preparation is the boracic acid ointment, composed of one pai-t of boracic acid to one of white wax, two of paraffin, and two of almond oil. It requires to be wanned and then spread upon a piece of fine linen rag. It has no tendency to adhere to the surface of the sore, and allows the discharge to ooze out from beneath it at the edges of the di-essing, at the same time pre- Tenting its decomposition. The preparations of boracic acid are especially nseftd when the operation of skin-grafting is employed. Each little gnaft may be dipped in the solution of boracic acid without any fear of destroying its vitality, and the freedom from decomposition ensmed by the dressing gTeatly increases the certainty of the operation. But it is not only by the employment of antiseptics that the decomposition of the secretions in a woimd may be prevented. Means for securing the free exit of the secretions are ahnost equally serviceable. The decomposition of the fluids in wounds—of the effused blood and liquor sanguinis, and of that sanies which is always poured out more or less abmidantly fi-om cut surfaces, may be prevented by affording it facilities of escape, or by washing it away as rapidly as it forms. It is in this way that septic con- tamination of wounds is often prevented, although no antiseptics are used. On this principle is conducted the “ open air treatment ” of wounds, strongly recommended and successfully practised by Humphiy, in which, though air is freely admitted, the ill effects of pent-up decomposing secretions are obviated. The treatment of wounds by constant irrigation, or by the tepid bath, is often very successful for the same reason. The older Simgeons seemed free discharges by open dressings, with stimulating balsams, tiuctmes, and ointments, which, however, were partly antiseptic ; or by the use of tents and plugs introduced into the angles and depending parts of wounds, whence they were periodicaUy removed, in order to give exit to the retained discharges. A favourite method of dressing woimds in the pre-anaesthetic period con- sisted in leaving the cavity open and freely exposed to the air until all oozing of blood had ceased and the surfaces were “ glazed,” i. e., covered with a layer of fibriue. They were then brought together, the discharges draining away along the ligature threads, which were brought out at the lowest part and the edges covered -with water-dressing. In this way ready union, with little if any suppuration, was often seem-ed ; and I have Avitnessed and obtained as good results by this as by any other plan of treatment. With the introduction of anaesthetics this practice Avas changed, and in order to save the pain of a second dressing, the Avound, if a smgical one, as in an amputation, Avas “ put up ” at once before the patient Avas removed fi-om the C)perating taldc—before all oozing had ceased, and before the process of “ glazing ” had commenced. This practice led to most pernicious results, for no pro-vision having been made for the escape of sanies, this, often mixed Avitb blood-clot, the result of oozing, became retained in the Avonnd ; these decom- posed, and thus became the fertile source of profuse suppuration, sloughing.