585 WOUNDS OF THE SPINAL CORD. more or less paralysis of sensation and motion continues in the limbs, and nothing of a specific nature can be done in the way of treatment, our Avhole object should be to improve the general health on ordinary medical principles, so as to prevent as far as possible the development of secondary diseases, such as phthisis dependent on malnutrition and a generally broken state of health, which may after several years lead to a fetal termination. WOUNDS OF THE SPINAL CORD. These injuries may occur from stabs with pointed instruments ; from gun- shot violence ; or, most frequently, from the pressure of fractured -s'ertebra). In the latter form of injury there is an association of wound and compression, giving rise essentially to the same symptoms as if the cord were difeded. Symptoms.—IVhen the spinal cord is com2Aetehj clwided, certain symptoms occur that arc common to all cases, at whatever part of the cord the injury has been inflicted, provided it be not so high as to cause instant death. In the fiist place, there is mivpMa iKiraUjsis of sensation and motion in all the parts below the seat of injury, though the mental state of the patient continue intact. The precise seat of injury may often be diagnosed by the extent of the paralysis. In injury of the loAver part of the spine, there may be paralysis of all the parts supplied by the nerves of the sacral plexus, Avhilst those from the lumbar are not affected ; the sensibility being lost beloAV the knees, whilst aboA'e it is perfect—thus leading to the inference that the injury has been inflicted above the one and below the other set of nerves. When the paralysis is complete, the temperature below the seat of injury is loiveredy often considerably, so as to give a sensation of distinct coldness to the hand. This is also the case when the paralysis is partial, provided there be no sign of laceration of the cord. In cases of laceration a considerable rise of temperatme has sometimes been obsei'A'ed, even as high as 114° F.; and after a time, a Aisible diminution takes iilace in the nutritive activity of the limhs, the circulation becoming feeble AA'ith a tendency to congestion at depending points. The lessening of nutritive vigour is not confined to the paralysed parts, but affects the whole system, the patient becoming speedily emaciated, auccmic, and cachectic. ^ I he skin assumes a dirty, cadaverous hue, and the cuticle usually exfoliates in bramiy flakes. The loAA ering of the temperature, the disturbance in the processes of nutri- tion and secretion, and the supervention of emaciation and cachexy, aro ependent upon a derangement of the relations of the A'aso-motor system and the spinal cord. This derangement does not altogether arise from the simple ^ iAision of the cord, but is rather the consequence of the inflannnation set up. m it and its membranes by the injury, and is, therefore, aggravated by anything that increases the inflammation ; thus it is more marked in laceration 0 t e cord and its continuous irritation by a fractured spine, than after its simple diAosion Avith a cutting instrument. Ihe general symptoms of paralysis following injury present important lof 1 cations, according to the height at Avhich the cord is divided. 3. \\hen the injury has been inflicted in the Lumbar or Lower Dorsal O o« ftom tho sticrel ov liuiibiir iilexnsc.9, or both of tho lower oxtro-