VENEREAL DISEASES. 846 must be very cautious ; lie must bear iu mind tliat the health and happiness ot a woman and the future of a family are often dependent on his reply ; and that, should he give his consent to the union and evil consecpiences follow, the whole 1 esponsibility will be thi’owei upon him. I think that it may be stated generally, that no man ought to many for at least twelve months after the first development of constitutional syphilis, even though all local signs of the disease have disappeared, and that he ought not to do so whilst any local manifestations of the disease arc developing themselves, whatever time has elapsed since the commencement of the attack. But, although I believe that it is safer to follow these general rules, yet I have seen so many cases in which marriage has been contracted by men still suffering from occasional manifesta- tions of the slighter forms of constitutional syphilis, and yet no evil consequences have been entailed either in wife or children, that, although it may be safer, yet it ctinuot be absolutely necessary to adhere closely to the advice just given. I know instances in w'hich men who had contracted sy[3hilis before marriage, and had been imperfectly cured—having for many years (ten, fifteen, or even twenty) occasional outbreaks of cutaneous syphilides, sarcocele, gummata, and other varieties of the advanced forms of the disease—have been the parents of perfectly healthy children, and have never infected their wives. It is tolerably W'ell established that syphilis is occasionally communicated with other affections. The matter of local chancre may thus be contaminated with the syphilitic virus, if the two affections be present in the same person. Syphilis has also been spread widely among young children by vaccinating them with lymph from a syphilitic child. One of the most unquestionable of these accidents is that which ocemred in the Subapennine valley of Eivalta in Piedmont, in 1861. Dr. Pacchiotti, of Turin, wiio was employed by the Italian government to report on the attack, has published an account of it. The facts are shortly these. In May, 1861, an apparently healthy child, named Chiabrera, wns vaccinated at Ptivalta with lymph sent from Acqui for the purpose. Ten days after this vaccination—on June 7th—forty-six healthy children wnre vaccinated at one sitting from this child. Again, on the 12th June, seventeen other healthy children were vaccinated from one of the forty- six. Thirty-nine of the first series of forty-six, and seven of the second series of seventeen, received syphilis with the vaccine disease, making a total of forty-six out of sixty-three children in a mountain village simultaneously inoculated wdth syphilis. Some months elapsed before the vaccination was suspected to have been the source of the childi-en’s bad health. By the 7th October, wfoen attention was drawm to this spreading disease, six of the forty- six syphilised children had died without recei-\ang any treatment, fointeen were recovering, and three w'ere iu a precarious condition. Tw-euty-three were dispersed through the country, and their condition was unknown until farther researches traced them out. In addition to the children, twenty women suckling them were inoculated wdth syphilis fr'om the children ; through the mothers, the disease had reached some ot the husbands and even the elder children of the different families. It is now generally believed that Anccine syphihs is only spread when blood is admixed wdth the inoculated lymph , that pure lymph will not spread sjq^hilis even when taken from a syphilised child ; and hence that vaccination may be safely practised in some cases from