APdlEST OF ARTERIAL HjEMORRIIAGE. 282 iiupoifcaiifc, as Dupuytren has pointed out, that the whole vessel be gvasped by the forceps, and that care be taken not to introduce one blade into the open end of the \essel, and thus only twist half of it. There can be no doubt that hiumorrhage from the largest vessels may be cflcctually stopped by torsion. Amussat and Velpeau reputedly used it to close the femoral, brachial, ulnar, and radial arteries in amputations of the thigh, arm, and foreaiTU. In torsion, an artery is placed in the condition of one that is lacerated or toru through. The internal and middle coats are retracted, and the external one is twisted into a kind of screw beyond them. A coagulum next forms Avithin the vessel, blocking up its extremity; inflammation then takes place, gluing together the coats of the artery; the twisted end sloughs off, and the vessel becomes occluded up to the nearest collateral branch. Torsion and Ligature Compared.—The employment of torsion as a sub- stitute for the ligatiu'e is adA'oeated on three gvounds : 1, that, whilst equally safe, it is more easy of apjAlication ; 2, that it is less liable to be followed by secondary htemorrhage ; and 3, that Avhen an artery is closed by torsion, no foreign body is left in the wound that could interfere with its direct union. Let us briefly examine these assumed advantages of torsion over the ligature. 1. So far as ease of application is concerned, there can be no doubt that the advantage is in favoiu’ of the ligatme. This is especially and very markedly the case with small vessels and those that camiot be drawn out of the sheath. In the case of the larger arteries, that can be denuded and di’awn out of the neighbouring tissues, it is at least as easy to thi'ow a thread roiuid the exposed vessel as to Lvist it up securely. 2. With reference to the comparative freedom from secondary hremorrhage, we have feAV data. This accident so rarely follows the use of the hgatme in open woimds, that it is scarcely to be taken into account as a somce of danger; and Avhen it does occim, it arises from causes, such as a diseased state of the tissues and blood, that are equally independent of hgatm’e and of torsion. And if secondary hemorrhage rarely follows torsion of an artery, the same may be said Avith equal truth AAuth respect to its hgatme. 3. The torsion of arteries Avas strongly advocated on the ground that, Avhilst equally as safe as the ligatme, there Avould after its employment be less hability to inflammation and suppm-ation, as no foreign body was left in the woimd. This argument was especially used by Amussat, who stated that, as the emplo}Tnent of torsion reduces the inflammation and suppuration of a wound almost to nothing, the cicatrisation must necessarily be more rapid. This statement, however, was not borne out by exiAcrience; and no difference Avas observable in that respect betAveen the healing of Avoimds m Avhich the vessels had been tied and those Avhere they had been twisted. ^ It a\ as hence considered that the advantage assumed for torsion over the ligatme m this respect Avas more fanciful than real; and Velpeau, aaLo A\ as one of its earliest imd staiuichest advocates, admitted, after a prolonged experience of it, that torsion was not applicable in every case, and that in none did it possess any ica advantage over the ligatiu’e. The question as to the injmious influence exercised by the ligature as a