VENEREAL DISEASES. S6o importance ; thus, it is usually better not to aclmiuister it until the initiatory pyrexia has subsided under the use of ordinary antiphlogistic treatment; nor should it bo given if there be a very marked cachexy. After this has'been lomoAcd, ho^ve^el, by other means, the employment of mercury may be proceeded Avith. In administering this remedy for constitutional syphilis, we must not give it largely, so as to affect the system rapidly, but as a mild coiu-se for some weeks, so as to act freely upon the secretory and excretory organs, and thus to elimi- nate the poison fr'om the system. The most useful preparations are the per- chloride, in doses fr’om the twelfth to the eighth of a gi-ain; or the green iodide in one-grain doses three times a day. These should be given Avith sar- saparilla, AAdiich keeps up the poAver of the system and actsfr-eely upon the kid- neys and the skin. The merciuy should be continued for at least from three to six weeks, until a decided improA^ement has taken place in the constitutional symptoms. I do not think it desirable to produce salivation ; all the good ■effects of mercury can be obtained far short of this ; and, indeed, if the remedy be pushed to such a point as to affect the mouth or gums, it AviU com- monly act injuriously, by depressing the powers of the system too much. I therefore think it Avell to suspend its administration Avhenever an impression has been made upon the disease, and before its depressing effect has been pro- duced. The cautions necessary dining the merciu’ial course, when administered in secondary syphilis, are precisely similar to those that we liave described as necessary during the primary treatment of the disease. In some cases of constitutional syphilis, affecting the skin and more super- ficial structiu’es, meremy may conveniently be administered by f umigation. This plan of treatment, which has been especially recommended by Langston Parker and H. Lee, consists of a combination of vapom-bathing and of mer- curial fumigation ; and these gentlemen speak in the highest terms of the Anlue of this remedy in syphilis, as shortening the duration of ordinary treat- ment, and permanently ciu’ing the disease without the constitution of the patient being in any Avay injured by its employment. The baths may also be associated AAuth appropriate internal treatment. During the use of the fumi- gations, the patient should be dieted, and be put on a full com’se of sarsa- parilla. The bath may be administered ei'ery second day, and should con- sist of about a drachm of cinnabar slowly volatilised by means of a spirit- lamj), at the same time that steam is disengaged from boiling water. In this AA'ay I have often used fumigations at the Hospital and in private practice, and AA'ith veiy great success, in cases of syphilitic cachexy with extensive cuta- neous disease of an ecthymatous or rupial character, in constitutions in which mercury could not be borne in any more active^foim. H. Lee prefers calomel as the material to be A'olatilised, twenty to forty grains being used on each occasion. Subcutaneous injection of mercury has been employed by Lewin and others Surgeons on the Continent, and by Walker of Peterliorough in this country. The salt used is the perchloride, of which from one-eighth to one-fourth of a grain is injected in solution in 15 minims of Avater. Sigmund of ^ ienna, Avho has tried this remedy in tAvo hundred cases, insists strongly on the neces- sity of rest after the injection, so as to obviate the occurrence of abscess and