6i EFFECT OF SEPTIC INFLUENCES. selves more especially regard to the condition ot the patient ipfore the operation, to whieh undoubtedly gi-eat importance must he attached {vide p 50) But stiU, making full allowauee for all this, the difference is so pe Ltween the tivo sets of cases, that the material result, viz., that the mortality after amputation in hospital practice was nearly fom- times as great as when the same operations are perfoi-med out of hospital, caimot very mateipdly he affected, and we cannot escape from the conclusion that the high hospi al mortality was gveatly influenced hy the exposm-e of the patient to those septic conditions existing in the air of large hospitals, which have been so ably and graphically described by Parkes, and which exercise the most in3unous toxic effect on patients ^vith large Avouiids who are exposed to theni. That those septic influences which are generated ^ in, and winch may even- tually saturate hospitals, exercise a most important influence in causing fatal pyemia, septiciemia, and osteo-myelitis after amputations, fiom vhich, as has already been shown, a large proportion of the amputated die, is evident from the following considerations. 1. Fi'om the commencement of this ceiitiny up to a comparatively recent period—dining what, in fact, may be termed the pre-sanitary age no improve- ment had taken place in amputation-mortality in hospitals. 2. The prevailing high rate of mortality varied greatly in different hos- pitals in the same town, in Avhich the patients AA'cre of the same class of society, foUoAAnd pretty much the same occupations, and were subjected to the same kinds of injuries and diseases ; the hospitals beuig officered by Surgeons of equal professional skill, and the only inequality existing being in the different sanitary conditions to which the patients were exposed in different hospitals. 8. The difference in the amputation mortality in different London hospitals A-aried from 18 and 25 to 47 per cent. In Calcutta, the death-rate after thigh amputations varied in different hospitals from 42 to 80 per cent. (DoAA'iiie). 4. Of late years, this excessL'e amputation-mortality has been materially reduced in some hospitals. 5. This reduction is contemporaneous with, and, as all the other conditions continue as heifore, dependent upon, the greater attention paid to hospital hygiene and the employment of antiseptics, under the improved sanitary Anews that are now entertained by Siu’gcons. 6. In mihtary practice, the rate of mortality after amputation has been found to be in the direct ratio of the aggregation of the Avoinided ; and death from septic influences may almost, if not entirely, be averted by their isolation.