INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. i88 circulation occasions serous effusion, and swelling of an oeclematous character. It relief be not afforded to the circulation by the removal of the constrictnig body, distention of the vessels, stagnation of the blood, loss of vitality of the jiart, and gangTene will speedily ensue. Hence the treatment consists in at once di\-iding or remoAing the cord or ring, as the case may be. Usually this is easily done, but in some cases it is attended with no little difficulty. This especially happens ivhen a small ring has been hurriedly put on a Avroug finger, or Avhen the penis has been draAvn through a brass ring. In such'cases as these the member swells greatly, and the difficulty of removing the foreign body is very considerable. The finger-ring may usually be removed by slipping a director under it, and clipping or filing it across upon this. Sometimes the following popular plan may advantageously be adopted. A strong silk thi’ead is carefully bound round the finger as tightly as possible from the point down to the ring, and through this the free end is earned with a needle : the thread is then slowly untwisted, and the ring is thus can-ied upon it off the finger. Curtain or other brass rings compressing the root of the penis haA*e been known sloAvly and gradually to cut thimigh the organ, without destroying its vitahty or rendering the inethi’a impervious. But such a fortunate result is altogether the exception ; in the great majority of such cases, unless the ring be speedily cut offj mortification of the organ Avould ensue, and might be foUownd, as it has been in some instances, by the death of the patient. WOUNDS. A Avoimd may be defined, in the words of Wiseman, as “ a solution of con- tinuity in any part of the body, suddenly made by anything that cuts or tears, AAith a division of the skin.” Siu’geons divide wmimds into Incised, Lacerated, Contused, Punctured, and Poisoned. There are, therefore, five kinds of wounds, and, as we have already seen, five modes of healing. INCISED WOUNDS. Incised woiuids may vary in extent from a simple superficial cut to the incision required in amputation at the hip-joint. Incised w'oimds are usually open, the air having free access to them; occasionally, however, Avhen made by the Singeon, they are subcutaneous, only communicating externally by a small punctine. They may be simple, merely implicating integnment or integiunent and muscle ; or they may be complicated AAdth injiuy of the lai’ger vessels and nerves, or of important organs. Symptoms.—In all cases incised woimds gi^n rise to three symptoms ; viz., Pain, Htemorrhage, and Separation of the lips of the wound. The Pain in an incised wmmd is usually of a cutting, burning, or smarting character. Dr. J. Johnson compared his own sensations to the pain produced by a stream of molten lead falling upon the part. Much depends, howeA'er, on the extent and situation of the Avound ; and also Avhether the cut has been made finm the cutaneous sinface inwards, or froin AAdthin outAvai’ds ; in the foimer case the pain is gveater than in the latter, because the nerves are diAadcd from the branches toAvards the tnuik ; Avhereas, Avhen the cut is from Avithiii