123 VARIETIES AND CAUSES. tion increases, exndation-coiiniscles and large quantities of epithelial scales arc thro^\^l oil', and, mixing -\vath the mucus, make it viscid and tenaoious—rojnj, as it is termed. In the more advanced stages we find pus and exudation- eoipuscles with epithelial scales, constituting the various forms of muco-pus and of true purulent secretion. Varieties of Ixplammatiom.—The symptoms, terminations, and effects of inflammation that have just been described, are those which characterise the more acute or ordinaiy forms of the disease. In practice, however, Ave recognise many important varieties. These may be referred to three heads, as they affect its Duration, its Intensity, or its Character. 1. Duration.—The disease may be acute or chronic, varying from a few days to many years, being especially persistent in those structures that are naturally least vascular, as, for instance, bones and joints. Chronic inflammation will be described in a subsequent part of this chapter. '1. Intensity.—When the symptoms are well marked, the redness and heat great, the tension high, and perhaps the pain seA'ere, with corresponding -constitutional disturbance, the inflammation is said to be active or acute; Avhen of a less intense character, it is termed suhacute; and when there are merely redness and swelling, with little or no pain, and but slight constitutional disturbance, the disease is said to be of a passive kind. The intensity of the inflammation is commonly gi’eater in proportion to the short duration of the disease, and less in the more chronic cases ; but very frequently inflammation of short dmation may be subacute or passiA'e, whereas some A'ery chronic forms may retain great actiAuty, and are especially liable to recurrent active attacks. 3. Character.—If the inflammation be circumscribed, occiuTing in a healthy constitution, and tending after a moderate time to terminate in resolution, it is called healUby or phlegmonous. If the vessels become distended and dilated, and the blood circulate slowly, the redness being of a purplish tinge, and the SAveUing considerable, Avith but little heat, the disease is said to be congestive. Of unhealthy inflammations there are numerous A'arieties : the diffuse, haA'ing a tendency to spread Avidely unchecked; the strumous, modified by scrofula; and the specific inflammations that arise from special causes, and are frequently capable of self-propagation. Causes of Ixflajdiatioji.—The causes of inflammation may be diAided, I 'e those of aU other diseases, into predisposing and exciting; and these again niay either be strictly local, or may act locally through the medium of the constitution. Local Predisposing Causes.—Though evciy tissue of the body is susceptible to inflammation, yet some parts are more liable to it than others. This cannot e owng to any grcater degroc of A'ascularity; for Av^e find that the tissues nnng t e interior of a joint more readily and more violently inflame, thougli ey aie a most extravascular, than a portion of the mucous membrane, Avhich is a ranc antly supplied Avith vessels. Indeed, serous and synovial membranes aie moie lable than most other tissues to inflammatory excitement. WhatcA'er niwwT ? t^^cre are two sets of causes that more especially pieclispose tissues to inflanmiation. imL^rof of part, by producing determi- nation of blood, may give rise to inflammation.