ARREST OF GANGRENE. 66s to observe what slight injuries Avill induce gangTcnous inflammation under these circumstances. The nature of the tissue exercises, howc\'cr, considerable influence ; thus, witli a moderate amount of inflammation, some tissues very readily run into gangTcne, the areolar membrane especially being apt to do so ; M'hilst others, as the proper tissue of glands and organs, are seldom so affeeted. The specific charact&r of the inflammation influences greatly the disposition to gaugTene : some forms, as the carbuncular, invariably resulting in the loss of vitality of the part. In some states of the constitution, the blood appearing to be diseased, there is a gTeat liability to gangTone. Gangrene consequent on inflammation is of the moist or acute kind, being always connected with a retention of blood in the part affected. 'We may regard it as impending in a part that has become inflamed from injury or other cause, if we find that the redness becomes of a dusky or pinplish hue ; that bullte filled with dark fluid rise upon the surface ; that the swelling, at first hard, tense, and branmy, becomes of a pulpy or doughy character ; that the pain is of a dull, heavy, or burning kind; and that the temperatm’e of the part, at first greatly increased, gradually sinks. We know that gaugTene has taken place when there is a total loss of the sensibility of the part, even to pricking or pinching ; that the motion of the part itself ceases ; that its coloiu- changes to a peculiar mottled, purplish-red, or greenish-black hue, unlike anything else in the body ; that the temperature falls to a level with that of suiTouuding ah ; or that the smTace affected may, by evaporation, e^•en feel colder. There is likewise an odour e^'olved, differing from that of ordinaiy fost mortem decomposition, and evidently depending upon gaseous exhalations fr’om the part that has lost its vitality, and has at the same time become, while retained in connection with the living parts, the seat of putre- factive changes. The extent of tissue affected may vary from a mere spot to the implication of the gveater portion of a limb ; and the gangrene appears to be finally aiuested by the inflammation losing its force as it radiates from t le centie, until it reaches a part where it is sufficiently reduced to be com- patible with these processes of separation and repair which will be immediatelv described. The Consiitutional Sijmptoms, always of a low type, vary according to cir- cumstances. ^ If the blood be healthy, and the constitution sound, the gan- gi-ene occmTing as the consequence of sev'ere iujmy, the symptoms will present the ordinary character of inflammatory fever, though even in these cases there IS a great tendency to asthenia. If the constitution be broken, or the blood ni a diseased state, the constitutional symptoms will rapidly riui into the iiTitative form. AiiKBST OB GAXGRENE.-Certain forms of gangrene (see p. have a en ency to extend indefinitely until the patient succumbs to the disease In many instances, however, the progress of the mortification is arrested, and the S-.gr.,0 reaches a pin wliich hn *, 81-eat to be destroyed by the operation of the causes fo“d ™ of demarcation Is nntfor' i"^'^ consists of a kind of barrier or septum of fibrinous or nhstic matter, out i„to the intent,cos of the hoalll.y tiasuoa at Z. llttl