521 C0^IPRESSI02^ OF THE BRAIH. in some eases this affection may speedily give way to complete lecove y , althonoh slight headache, some degree of giddiness, confusion of thonght, and inaptitude for mental ocenpatioii, may last for a few days before the mental powers are completely re-established. In other cases, the concussion may rapidly tcmiinate in death ; but between these conditions there are several in- termediate states. Thus, recovery may be complete, but a permanently iiTitable state of brain may be left; the patient, though capable of the ordinary duties oflife, becoming readily excited by slight excesses hi diet or in the use ol stimulants, or by mental emotion, though not of an inordinate intensity, in- dividuals thus affected, suffering from a preternatimally irritable brain, frequently die suddenly in the coimse of a few months, or a year or two, after the receipt of the injury. _ 1 i i j.- j. In other cases the recovery continues to be incomplete; although the patient may be enabled to follow his usual occupation, and to mix in the ordinary business of life, yet his state is precarious, the brain being liable to the occur- rence of inflammatory disease on the slightest exciting cause. In such cases as these, there is fr’eqiiently a certain degree of impairment of mental power, the memory failing either generally or in certain important pouits, as ^ Tvdth reference to dates, persons, places, or language. The speech is perhaps indis- tinct and stuttering. Impairment of vision is a very common consequence of these injuries. Asthenopia, with perhaps squinting or paralysis of the eyelid, may be left. The hearing may be impaired, or noises of various kinds set up in the ears. Epileptifoim convulsions occasionally occur ; sometimes, as the patient is recovering his consciousness, he may be seized vdth a severe fit; but more commonly the convulsions do not come on as a primary con- sequence, but rather as a remote secondary result of the brain-injiuy. There may be diminution or loss of muscular and of virile power, especially, as Hennen observes, when the injury has been inflicted upon the back of the head ; and Holberton has noticed that, when the medulla oblongata has been injured, the pulse may continue pretematuraUy slow—an obseiwation which I have had several opportunities of confliming in injuries both of the medulla, the pons Yarolii, and the crura cerebri. For these symptoms to occim, it is by no means necessary that the original local injury should have been severe. In some cases, the whole nervous system appears to be jarred and concussed without any wound or apparent sign of external injury to the head. At first, the symptoms of concussion are but slight, perhaps even none are apparent, and the sufferer congi’atulates himself on his escape ; but gi-adually impair- ment of nervous power, manifesting itself in one or other of the ways just mentioned, comes on, and the health continues broken through life. In other cases, again, the symptoms of concussion may gradually terminate in those of compression ; and not unfrequently the reaction that comes on, passing beyond the bounds that are necessary for the re-establishment of the healthy functions of the l)rain, terminates in inflammation. Hippocrates has truly observed, that no injury of the head is too trivial to be despised, or too serious to be despaired of. "2. CoiPiiESSiox OF THE Beain.—This is a common condition in injuries of the ^ head, arising from a gveat variety of causes from the pressime of a portion of Ijone, of blood extravasated, or of pus formed within the skull, or