SYMPTOMS OF INFANTILE SYPHILIS. 875 through it without herself ha^-iiig had primary syidulis ; and Jonathan Hutchinson has advanced a considerable amount of evidence m support ol this doctrine, which, nevertheless, fails to cany conviction to my mind that such communication ever takes place. Then, again, there is no doubt that a wet-nm-se labouring under constitutional syphilis can infect the child that she suckles, the infant being contaminated through the medium of the milk. Ricord, and many others of equal authority, admit this. My owm opinion is that sjqihilis is, though rarely, so transmitted ; and, indeed, there are a number of cases on record in proof of this {vide RanMmf s Abstract, vol. iv.). The converse of this is also a matter beyond dispute : a syphilitic child can infect a healthy nm-se. This point is one of very great importance, inas- much as actions for damages have been brought by women who have stated that they have become diseased from the child that they have nursed. There are cases recorded that prove it incontestably ; and, on such a question as this, one positive fact must necessarily outweigh any amount of negative eHdence. Not only have Hunter and Lawrence related cases in which an infected child communicated the disease to several nurses in succession ; in Himter’s cases three wet-nurses were successively infected, two of whom gave the disease again to their own cliildren ; but a considerable mass of evidence upon this point is to be found in Ranking's Abstract {loc. cit). The disease is especially apt to be communicated in this Avay, if the iiiu'se have any crack or abrasion upon her nipple, and the infant sores on the mouth. CoUes, however, who had great experience in syphilis, states that the disease may be communicated to the nurse from an infected child, by mere contact, Avithout excoriation. Symptoms.—The symptoms of infantile syphilis are sufficiently well marked : consisting principally of cachexy, with disease of the mucous and cutaneous surfaces. The first indication is usually the atrophic and cacliectic appearance of the child ; this not unfrequently shows itself at birth, and Avhen it does so, such children are often small, shrivelled, wan, and wasted, when born ; the face especially has an aged look, the features being pinched, and the flesh soft and flabby; the complexion generally has a yelloAvish or earthy tinge ; and these characters continue until the disease is eradicated from the system of the child. But it is more usual for the disease to delay its appearance imtil a month has elapsed after birth. Diday and De M6ric have collected a large number of cases, in most of which the disease was developed in the fifth and sixth w^eeks. Many betrayed their disorder in the first month ; in some few it was delayed until the child had attained the age of three months. The earlier the disease shows itself, the more fatal are its effects. Children who are not attacked till they are tAvo or three months old, usually recover their health in a short time. Nor, Avhen the child is born Avith syjffiilitic eruptions, is it ahvays atrophic and ill-nourished, though such a condition is the ordinary one. The first local sign that declares itself is usually a congestive condition of the mucous membrane of the nose, giving rise to the secretion of offensive mucus, and causing the child to make a peculiar snuffling noise in breathing, as if it had a chronic catarrh ; this snuffling may exist from the time of birth, but generally comes on A^ery shortly afterwards. The mucous membrane of the