TUMOURS. Sl2 •IS wo SCO ill tlic face and occasionally in tlic tibia. Extensive secondary c eposits in tlie lymphatic glands in the idcinity of the parts all’ected, even deep in the snbmaxillary, iliac, and pelvic regions, invariably take place after the disease has lasted for some time. Structure.—On microscopic examination, an epithelioma will be found to be composed of masses of cells of the type of squamous epithelium, forming irre- gularly cylindi’ical processes communicating with each other. From the irregu- lar-course of these processes, they are cut in a variety of directions in everythin section, so that the groups of cells do not give the idea of cylinders, but rather of circidar, oval, and irregular masses not in direct connection with each other. Between these cylinders is a fibrous tissue bearing abundant vessels for the nutrition of the non-vascular epithelimn. This fibrous tissue is more or less infiltrated with small round cells, in proportion to the rapidity of the growth of the tiunour. It vdll be seen from the above description that the structure of an epithelioma, although differing in detail, is in the main similar to that of sciirhous and encephaloid cancer ; that is to say, cells of an epithelial type, imbedded in spaces in a fibrous stroma, which freely commimicate with each other (Fig. 311). As ill normal squamous epithehum covering a papilla of the skin, the cells next'to the fibrous and vascular tissue are softer and roimder in form than those of greater age. In the centre of the terminal portion of a cylinder of cells or in a branching process from it, the epithelium often becomes flattened by pressure, and arranged circularly so as to form a globe (epithelial nests, epithelial pearls). These nest-like for- mations are produced, according to Virchow, by the remarkable tendency to endogenous cell-growth exhibited by some of these cells, and the develop- ment of large “brood-spaces” within them. The pressime produced by this formation of brood-spaces, and the endogenous cell-growth accompanying it, causes the cells to become flattened and to take on a concentric arrange- ment. Possibly these globes may be formed in both ways ; but the appearance usually presented by them rather sug- gests the former than the latter pro- cess, as the central parts are most fr-e- quently dry and hard, and present no signs of active growth. Similar globes are not unfrequently formed in simple warty growths, and must therefore not be considered absolutely diagnostic of epithelioma. The tully formed cells often present beautifully serrated edges, the serrations of one inteidigitat- ing with those of its neighbours. This is well shown in the accompanying drawing (Fig. 312), taken fr-om a small epithelioma of the anus which I removed in University College Hospital. The individual cells ol an epithelioma, as obtained by scraping, differ but little from the healthy scaly epithelium that FiiJ. 312.—Bpitlieliouiii of Amis (ISS diani.) Illustrates the structure of au epithelial {•lohe, ami shows the spinous cells which occur noriually in the Malpighian layer of tlie skin.