457 CAUSES OF DISLOCATION. CHAPTER XXII. DISLOCATIONS. By a Dislocation is meant the more or less sudden and complete displacement of one of the bony structures of a joint from the other. In the orbicular joints, as the hip and shoidder, the osseous stmctiu'es may be completely separated from one another, the dislocation then being Complete. In the hinge-joints, as the elbow and knee, the osseous surfaces commonly remain partially in contact, though displaced from their normal relations to one another : here the disloca- tion is Incomplete. In most dislocations the integuments covering the dis- placed bones are put greatly on the stretch ; but in some they are ruptimed, and then the dislocation is Compound. Besides these varieties, Siu’geons recog- nise Spontaneous dislocation, in which the displacement does not occur from external violence. In other cases again, the dislocation arises from Congenital malformation of the joint, in consequence of which the bones cannot remain in proper apposition ; and finally, dislocation may take place slowly and gra- dually as a result of disease in the articulation and siuTonnding tissues. This is termed pathological dislocation. It is customary nowadays to describe dislocations of the distal bone or the more movable bone ; formerly, dislocation of the proximal bone was often spoken of. Cal'ses.—Dislocation is Predisposed to by various conditions, amongst which the natine of the joint appears to exercise most influence ; orbicular joints being more liable to dislocation than any of the other articulations, whilst in some of the synchondroses it never occurs. Malgaigne finds that, of 401 cases of dislocation, 321 occiuTed in the shoulder, 34 in the hip, 33 in the clavicle, 26 in the elbow, 20 in the foot, besides others in the thumb, vnist, and jaw. Dislocations are seldom met with in children, in whom fractures thi’ough the line of junction between the epiphysis and shaft more readily occin. I have, however, had under my care a child, just one year old, with dislocation of the head of the femin on the os pubis, occasioned by another older cliild dragging it along the ground by its leg ; Kirby and Madge have both seen dislocations of the femur on the dorsum ihi in children of three and three and a half years old ; and Travers has seen the hip dislocated in a boy five years of age. In old people the bones are so brittle, and the ligaments so tough, that violence causes fractiu’e rather than dislocation. Hence it is principally in young and middle-aged subjects that dislocations are met Avith. This is Avell illustrated by an analysis of 84 cases of dislocation of the hip-joint, collected by Hamil- ton : of these, 15 occuiTed under 15 years of ago, 32 betAA'een 15 and 30, 29