907 PATHOLOGY OF TETANUS. that the cramps do not begin in the part injured ; but, wherever this may be situated, they are always first noticed in the muscles of mastication, of the face, and upper part of the neck ; and throughout, these and the muscles of the respiration are principally affected. In tetanus, the circle of nervous disturbance is at first very limited. It is confined to the muscles supplied by the motor branch of the fifth, by the portio dura of the seventh nerve, and by the spinal accessory. These nerves aj^pear to be alone affected ; the sensoiy di^•ision of the fifth is ne’\'er influenced throughout the disease. The spasm may be confined to the muscles supplied by these neiwes, as is the case in trismus ; but it soon spreads to the true spinal nerves, being, however, confined to their motor divisions. The first symptoms usually consist in the patient feeling a stiflhess or soreness about the jaws and thi'oat, being imable to open his mouth widely, to take food or drink, the muscles about the temples, jaw, and neck feeling stiff and rigid ; this condition has given to the disease the popular term of JoeJe-jaw. As the affection advances, the countenance assumes a peculiar expression of pain and anguish, the features are fixed or convulsed from time to time, and the angles of the mouth dranm up, constituting the appearance called the rims sardonicus. When fairly set in, the disease is marked by spasms of the voluntary muscles of the most violent character, with much pain and only partial remissions. The pain is of that kind that attends ordinary cramp in the muscles, as of the legs, and is usually very severe. The spasms are often jerking, the patient being suddenly thrown up or twisted on one side; the breath is di-awn with a loud sobbing catch from spasm of the diaphragm, and ft-om the same cause there is usually violent pain experienced in the epigastric region, darting across to the spine. The muscles of the trunk are usually affected next in order of ft-equency to those of the head and neck, the body being bent backwards so as to form a complete scrok {Opisthotonos); more rarely it is drawn forwards {Emprosthotonos); and stiU less frequently to one side. In some cases the body becomes perfectly rigid, like a piece of wood, the beUy being drawn in, and the chest expanded. It is said that in severe cases the spasms have been so violent that muscles have been ruptured, teeth broken, and the tongue lacerated. In the numerous cases of tetanus that I ha'v e un- fortunately witnessed, it has rarely fallen to my lot to see any effects of this kind produced ; the spasms, indeed, being in general not very violent, though continuous and very painful. The only muscles that I have seen torn have been the recti of the abdomen. The intellectual faculties are not disturbed, and the mind continues clear to the last. Cases of tetanus occasionally prove fatal vdthout any elevation of temperature ; but in most instances there are great heat of surface, profuse sweats, and quickness of pulse ; not so much from any febrile disturbance, but apparently from the violence of the muscular contractions. In most cases this symptom is peculiarly marked, especially towards the end of the case, when the temperature may rapidly rise to extraordinary heights. Thus, Wunderlich has recorded a case in which it reached 112-55° Fahr. immediately before death, it may continue to rise a few tenths of a degree higher after death in these cases. The prolongation of life appears to depend gTeatly upon the intensity ot the convulsive movements : the more severe these are, the sooner does death result. Ihe fatal termination occurs not so much ft-om any great physical