688 ERYSTPELAS. A cliief chavactoristic of this ciysipelatous fever is its incomioatibility witlv the localisation of any inflammation that may exist at or occur after its invasion ; and hence, when it attacks the system, it causes already existing inflammations to become dilfnsc or spreading, and to extend themselves over any surface on which they happen to be situated. It is, in fact, the very antithesis of the adhesive inflammation ; and not only is it so, but when erysipelas attacks a woiind in which the healing process has made any progress, it has a tendency to disorganise the lymph that has been ah-cady deposited, to open up the wound, and to lead to the establishment of suppurative action in it. It is especially apt to cause those inflammations to spread, which have not already been localised by the deposit of adhesive matter. Hence, recent wounds are more liable to be affected by it than old, and more especially gTanulating ones, in which the inflammation has already taken on a plastic character, which requires to be overcome before the diffuse form can set in. The invasion of erysipelas is characterised by general malaise and depression, chilliness, and occasionally actual signs, gastro-intestinal disturbance, accom- panied by nausea, and sometimes by violent vomiting and purging. Cases have been recorded in which the first symptoms hav e been convulsions of an epileptiform character. During the chilliness the temperature rises to 103° or 104° F. • but the rise does not show the extraordinary fiiictiiations common in pymmia.' The constitutional disturbance, although usually at first sthenic, very speedily runs into an asthenic or irritative type, presenting in severe cases the usual typhoid symptoms-—a quick feeble pulse, brovoi tongue, pungent hot skin, and muttering delirium. The disease is truly an affection of debility ; it is in consequence of the want of a siilficieut degi’ee of power in the part, or in the system, for the deposit of plastic matter, and the limitation of the inflam- mation by this, that the local affection spreads itself unchecked along the smface it invades. The tendency that frequently exists in erysipelas to the occim-ence of sloiio-hiiio- and suppmation of the affected tissues, is a finther indication of the asthenic and low character of the disease. This Hew of the nature of the constitutional disturbance in erysipelas is of great importance m reference to the treatment of the disease, as it demonstrates the necessity of not lowering the patient’s powers too much during the early period of the affection, when it often temporarily assumes a truly sthenic character. _ Erysipelas is especiaUy apt to become complicated mth low visceral lufl^- mation ;* the membranes of the brain, the bronchi and the lungs, or the gastro- StestinH mucous surface, are commonly implicated in this way ; and it is often through these complications that death results. ■ CASsES.-Erysipelas may occm without any external woimd, injury, or lesion of any kind, the disease being occasioned by some externa agency such as cold uctiiJ iniiu-iously on a system previously disposed to it by habitual deiange- ment^of health ^Or it may be directly excited by the infliction of a vound in an iiidmdiial who is either strongly predisposed to this affection by previous an Perano-ement or who is after the receipt of this injiu-y exposed constitutional de c ^ t, ^ ^ of the disease. Erysipelas may to circumstances : 1. Those that are intrinsic to