INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 566 liequently occurred, in consequence of injuries sustained in railway collisions, and have been very forcibly brought imder the observation of Surgeons in consequence of their ha^-ing been the fertile sources of litigation ; actions for damages tor injuries alleged to have been sustained in railway collisions ha-ving become of such frequent occuiTence as now to constitute a very important part of medico-legal inquiry. The symptoms that arise from these accidents have been A'ery A'ariously interpreted. Some practitioners have ignored them entirely, believing that they exist only in the imagination of the patient ; or, while admitting their existence, have attributed them to other conditions of the ner^•ous system which could not have arisen from the alleged accident. And when their connection with, and dependence upon, an injmy have been in- contestably proved, no little discrepancy of opinion has arisen as to the ulti- mate result of the case, the permanence of the symptoms, and the cmability of the patient. I cannot too strongly urge the fact that there is in reality nothing special in the symptoms of concussion of the spine produced by railway colli- sions, except in the severity of the accident by which the concussion is occasioned, and that it is consequently a mistake to look on a certain class of symptoms as sjpecial and peculiar to railway accidents. Injimes received on railways may differ in their severity, but do not differ in their natme, fr-om injindes received in the other accidents of ci\il life. There is no more real difference between that concussion of the spine which results from a railway colhsion and that vfhich is the consequence of a fall from a horse or a scaffold, than there is between a compound and comminuted fractm-e of the leg oc- casioned by the giinding of a railway carriage over the hmb and that resulting fr'om the j)assage of the wheel of a cart across it. In either case, the injiuy arising from the railway accident wiU be essentially of the same natme as that Avhich is otherwise occasioned ; but it vdU probably be infinitely more severe and destructive in its effects, owing to the greater degree of violence that occasions it. Concussion of the spinal cord may be produced either by direct violence, as by severe blows or falls on the back, giving rise to local pain and signs of contu- sion, or by shght blows : or by indirect violence, as when a person meets with a general fall, jar, or concussion of the body, without any evidence of a blow having been inflicted on the spine itself; or by hoists and sprains, or vrenches, of the vertebral column. CojfCussiON FROM Direct Violercb.—Concussion or commotion of the spinal cord, as a consequence of severe and direct blows upon the back, has long been recognised and described by those writers who have occupied them- selves with the effects of injmies to this part of the body. The Primary Symptoms of concussion of the cord immediately and directly produced by a severe blow ujion the spine vdU necessarily vary in severity and extent according to the situation of the injiuy, the force ndth which it has been inflicted, and the amoimt of organic lesion that the delicate structiue of the cord has sustamed from the shock or jar to which it has been subjected. A severe blow upon the Upper Cervical Region may produce^ instantaneous death. A less severe blow may produce paralysis of one oi ot all the limbs, with every possible modification of combined or disassociatu loss of motor power and of sensation, of hyperiesthesia and ot ainesthesia.