TUMOURS. 8o2 Iviiife. Ihere is, however, no positi^•o eviclenee before us in proof of the truth of this opinion. It is not improbable that the chemical action of the caustics ' ]uay extend so widely into neighbouring tissues as to destroy or render unpro- ductive the cancer-cells or cancerous plasma by which they are infiltrated, and on the development of which the local recurrence of the disease depends. But it is impossible to believe that the mere method of removal of the local disease' can influence the constitutional nature of the cancer. If secondary infection have taken jilace, it can signify very little whether the local disease be extir- pated by the knife or by caustics. If no cachexy exist, it appears to me that the patient must be equally safe in ivhatever vny the local disease is removed, provided it be thoroughly and effectually extirpated. Another advantage .urged in favour of caustics, in the coiTectness of which 'Velpeau acquiesces, is, that enlarged lymphatic glands are more likely to go down under their use than when the primary cancer is extirpated by the knife. Some of the advocates of the use of caustics in the treatment of cancer pretend that the particular agent employed exercises on the morbid structure a specific action, which is cnnfinp.fi to it, and does not extend to the neighbomiug healthy tissues. But this asser- tion is entirely destitute of fouWation. • . The caustics that have been and that are employed in the treatment of cancers are very various. They cannot be used indiscriminately, and consequently we must briefly consider them separately. 1. The concentrated mineral acids, especially the fuming nitric and anhydrous sulphuric acids, are often advantageously employed. The concentrated nitric acid may be usefully applied to small superficial cancerous ulcers; it rapidly destroys the tissues, and does not spread too -widely, but it is not potent enough for the destruction of tumoiu’S. The glacial sulphuric acid, made into a white paste with asbestos, as used by Michel, or rubbed into a black paste mth powdered safifon,js the caustic which Velpeau extols as the most efficient in cancerous tmnoiu’S, more particularly those of a fungating or bleeding kind. It converts the part to which it is applied into a thick, hard, carbonised eschar, with but little surrounding inflammation ; and, as its action is rapid, the pain is not pro- longed. On the separation of the hard slough, a healthy granulating cavity Avill be left, which cicatrises rapidly with much contraction. It also acts as a hsemostatic, rapidly shiiveUing and drying up large bleeding and discharging fungi. 2. The caustic allcalies, especially potash and lime, either alone or in combi- nation, in the shape of the Vienna paste, or fused into sticks, are very energetic in their action ; but they have the disadvantage of spreading widely if applied to a large siuface, and, by softening or dissol-ving the parts, giving rise to a tendency to hmmorrhage. They may, however, be adv’antageously applied to small cancers of the face. 3. Various mineral salts, more particularly the chlorides of antimony, zinc, and bromine, the acid nitrate of merciuy, and arsenious acid, arc often employed with much success in the treatment of cancerous rfleers and growths. Of the various chlorides, that of zinc is the most usefid. This is applied by being made into a paste containing one part of the chloride to foiu parts ot floiu, moistened with a little water, or by the pine chloride slightly moistened being spread on strips of lint. It must, in order to act, be applied to a raw