845 TJiAKSMISSIBiLITY OF SYFUILLF. syphilitic discharges, or of the secretions of individuals labouring ^^der con- stitutional syphilis, is one that is still unsettled ; and, before it can be settled, very extended and accurate observation is required for the elimination of those sources of eiTor, which arc inseparable from an inquiry in ivhich the morality of patients often constitutes an important element. The following appear to me to be the chief points that may bo looked upon as decided with tolerable cer- tainty, though many of them arc still subjects of controversy. Constitutional syiihilis is contagions ; that is to say, it is communicable from one individual to another through the medium of the discharge of one of the sores that may form during its continuance. The fluids which by direct experi- ment are proved to contain the 'idriis in a communicable form, are the secretions of all the early syphilitic eruptions ; of these, the most common are the thin discharge of mucous tubercles, or of the initial ulcer. The blood itself, in more than one instance, has been inoculated vnth success. Professor Pellizzari, of Florence, inoculated a young Singeon, Dr. Bargioni, on the 6th of February, 1860, with blood taken from the vein of a woman suffering from syphilitic eruptions. The site of the inoculation, Avhich was carefully protected by a watch-glass cover, remained quiet for twenty-five days ; then a papula de- veloped, which in forty-four days became an ulcer with hard base. On the sixty-fifth day after inoculation, a roseola broke out on the trimk. Some un- certainty still exists as to whether the natural secretions of syphihtic persons are contagious of themselves, or become so by admixture with the blood or the discharge of syphilitic affections. The saliva, the milk, and the semen have lieen variously accused of this power. Syphilis is hereditarily transmissible fr’om parent to offspring; it is said to be communicable to the female by impregnation by a diseased male, and even tlnough the medium of the semen without impregnation. It is also believed by some to be communicable to the mother from a diseased foetus in utero, the parent being thus poisoned through her owm offspring. There are certain rare cases in w^hich it has been communi- cated fr’om nurses to children, and vice verad, by the act of suckling, through the medium of sores or mucous tubercles on the nipple or mouth, and possibly through the secretions. And there occasionally occur cases in which the malo' is infected by the diseased secretions of a syphilitic female during sexual inter- course, without there being any local sore through which the poison can be proved to be conveyed into the system. Ought a man affected by constitutional syphilis to marry ? is a question that is frequently put to the Surgeon, and one to which it is by no means easy to give a direct and immediate answer. That a man labouring under constitutional syphilis is lialile to infect a healthy w^oman, cither directly or through the medium of her foetus, or to become the progenitor of syphilised children, there can be no doifiit ; but that he wall necessarily do so, is certainly not the case. In answering the difficult question that is thus frequently raised, the Surgeon