CONCUSSION FROM DIRECT VIOLENCE. 5^7 Or it may g•i^'o rise to A'arions lilienomcna, clepenclent on initation ot the large ncn'es that take their origin from the medulla oblongata. Thus, ■\vhen the vcir/us mrve is affected, a sense of sulfocation, with irregular action of the heart, may be experienced, or severe vomiting may be estabhshed, and may continue for months. Sometimes the s^nnal accessory nerve is affected, and the trapezius or the stcruo-mastoid muscle thrown into a more or less permanent spasmodic state. From irritation of the iTirenic nerve, liiccup and a peculiar sense of constriction round the body, as if the patient were girt by an iron band, may be established. AMicn the Lower part of the Cervical Spine has been struck so as to concuss the cord, I have known, paralysis of one or both arms induced, mthout any paralytic symptoms of the trunk or legs. In these cases the paralysis may go off entirely ; or it may disappear in one arm and continue in the other ; or one nerve only may continue to be affected—such as the circumflex, the musculo- spiral, or the -ulnar. There may be complete paralysis of sensation and of motion in any one of these nerves ; or motor power may be lost, whilst sensa- tion is normal; or, more commonly, where the sensibility continues, it is exalted, and we may find loss of motor power with hyperaesthesia. These modifications of innervation may be confined to one nerve, as the musculo- spiral, when there wiU be loss of motor power in the extensors and supinators of the forearm and hand, with loss of sensation or with hyperaesthesia of the skin of the hand supplied by the radial nerve. In other cases we find motor paralysis of the eirciunfiex or musculo-spiral nerve, and hypera3sthesia of the ulnar-. In these respects there is every possible variety. A severe blow inflicted on the Dorsal or the Lumbar Hegiou may induce more or less complete paraplegia. In some cases the paralysis of the lower- limbs has been complete and instantaneous ; and has affected both sensation and motion, with loss of power over the sphincters. In other cases there has only been paralysis of motion, sensation continuing perfect or being in excess. The reverse has been met with, but less frequently and less completely, there being loss of sensation, and impairment, though not complete loss, of power- over motion. One leg is fi-equently more severely affected than the other. Or the two legs may be imequally affected as to sensation and motion ; both sensation and motion being impaired, but in varying degrees in the two limbs. There may be complete loss of power over the sphineters both of the bladder and anus, with incontinence or retention of lu’ine and farces ; or the loss of power may be confined to the bladder oirly. This is especially the case when there is paralysis of motion rather than of sensation in the low'er limbs. The state of the ru-ine will vary. If there be no retention, it rvill continue acid. AVhen there is retention, the urine usually beeomes tdkaline, but sometimes, oxen when there is complete retention, it remains strongly acid ; and Ollivier noted the very remarkable circumstance in one case of retention, that there was an enonnous formation of inie acid, so that the eathetcr became loaded vith it. Priapism docs not occur in concussion, Avhile it docs so often in cases of laceration and irritation of the cord. paralysed parts is generally notably lower than at of the healthy parts of the body, and in some cases an absence of normal perspiration has been obscrv'cd.