GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 23S disease ; except that in o-un-sliot injury advantage may often he taken of the wound in the soft parts, by enlarging which longitudinally, the shattered, bone may be readily readied and extracted, and the splintered ends sawn smooth. The question as to tho^ierwd at. which amputation oiujhtfo be formed after the infliction of gun-shot wounds, is one of great importance, and has given rise to much discussion among Surgeons. The older military Surgeons, Pare, Wiseman, .Ledran, Eanby, &c., taking a common-sense view of tlie question, advocated the removal of the hopelessly injured limb as soon as possible after the receipt of the injmy. Wiseman’s advice is to “ cut off the limb quickly, Avhile the soldier is heated and in mettle ; ” and this ad-sice has not been and cannot be improved upon. After the battle of Pontenoy, in the middle of the- last centiuy, professional opinion underwent a change upon this subject; and Faiu’e wrote a thesis, which obtained a prize of the French Academy of Surgery, recommending delay in amputating in certain cases. Hunter, Percy, and other Surgeons of repute, promulgated similar views ; until Bilguer, the Sm’geon-in-chief to the armies of Frederick the Great, went to the absmd and dangerous extent of condemning amputation entirely. These extreme opinions necessarily occasioned a reaction ; and the experience gained in the wars of the French Eevolution and of the Empire, has enabled Surgeons to settle this question definitely. It is more particularly through the laboins and observa- tions of John Bell, Larrey, Thomson, Guthrie, S. Cooper, and Heimen, that the necessity of having recomse to immediate amputation in all cases of gun- shot injmy requiring this operation has been fully recognised, and the truth of Wiseman’s ad-sIce has been re-established. In determining this point we must be guided, partly by surgical experience of the result of such cases when left to nature, and partly by an appeal to facts. In appeahng to experience Ave must, to use the forcible language of Sir Charles. Bell, contemplate what Avill be the condition of the parts in twelve hours, in six days, and in three months. “ In tweh’e horns the infiammation, pain, and tension of the whole limb, the inflamed countenance, the brilliant eye, the- sleepless and restless condition, declare the impression the injmy is making on the limb and on the constitutional powers. In six days, the limb from the- gToin to the toe, or from the shoulder to the finger, is swollen to half the size: of the body ; a Afiolent phlegmonous inflammation pervades the whole ; serous effusion has taken place in the whole limb ; and abscesses are forming in the oreat beds of cellular textme throughout the vfrole extent of the extremity. In three months, if the patient have labom-ed through the agony, the bones are carious ; the abscesses are interminable sinuses ; the limb is imdermmed and everyAvhere unsound ; and the constitutional strength ebbs to the lowest (^0crx*00 , If we appeal to facts, we shaU find that of 300 secondary amputations reported by Fame, after the battle of Fontenoy, only thirty were successful; whereas Larrey saved three-fourths of his primary amputations Napoleonic Avars. In the Peninsular war, the comparative loss after secondary amputations of the upper extremity Avas, to that folloAving the primary as 3ve to one ; and of tlie loAver extremity, the loss after secondary amputation vTs three times as gi-eat as after primary. Hming the siege ot Sebastopol,