ERYSIPELAS. 692 (lifFeront tissues and organs. With this view, we may divide it primarily into External and Internal Erysipelas, EXTEBNAL EBYBIPELAS. External Erysipelas is that variety of disease which affects the skin and snbentaneons areolar tissue. This form has been deseribed with an absurd degree of minuteness, so far as the transitory and accidental characters of its duration, shape, and appearance ai'e concerned, by many of the vniters on Diseases of the Skin ; who, in their anxiety to record minute and often accidental shades of difference in appearance, have entirely lost sight of the true nature of the disease. The division adopted by Lawrence into the Simple, the CEdematous, and the Phlegmonous forms, is a practical arrangement that is commonly adopted by Sm’geons. I prefer, however, and shall adopt, the division made by Nxmneley in his very excellent work on Erysipelas, as founded on the true pathology of the affection. He arranges external erysipelas under tlmee varieties : 1. Cutaneous ; 2. Cellulo-cutaneous ; and 3, Cellular. 1. Cutaneous Erysipelas is the shghtest form of the disease, implicating merely the skin; it comprises many of the species of erythema of different writers, and corresponds to the simple erysipelas of Lawrence. Local Signs.—A patient is seized with rigors, alternate chills and flushes, followed by headache, nausea, a quick pulse, a coated tongue, and hot skin ; in from twenty-four to forty-eight horn’s the rash appears, though sometimes it comes out simultaneously with the constitutional distm’bance. If there be a wound, its secretions dry up, and the margins become slightly swollen, and affected by the red blush. If the disease occur idiopathically without a wound, it most commonly appears upon the face, next upon the legs, and lastly upon the trunk. The rash is of a uniform but vivid rosy red hue, sometimes becoming dusky, and always disappearing on pressime; when advancing it is characterised by a sharply defined border slightly raised above the healthy skin, but when subsiding it fades away into the colour of the healthy skin. It is accompanied by some slight cedematous swelhng, fr-equently only recoo-nisable by the permanent impression left by the finger nail pressed on the skin^ but which is often considerable Avhere the areolar tissue is loose, as in the eyehds and scrotum, and there is usuaUy a stiff bm-ning sensation in the part, and not unfrequently greatly increased sensibility. Vesicles or bifite often form, containing a clear serum, which speedily becomes turbid and dries into fine branny desquamation. The redness may spread rapidly along the hnib 01 trimk, or, if the face be affected, may travel quickly from one side to the 0 hei, causing such swelling of the eyelids as to close them, and gmng rise ^ sne ^ and much tensive pain in the ears. The disease is almost f ^ “ nanied by some enlargement and tenderness of the lymphatic glands. In some cases this may even precede the rash. Sometimes the disease disappears in 01 prt of the body and 'reappears in another. This, whieh is Often a dangerous form of the affection, occin-i’ing in and indicating the approach of death. In these varieties f pelas, Ai-nott states that the fauces ai’c always involved. . abscesses not usually induce any serious mischief in t e ‘ pyoiiqs. form, more especially in the loose areolar tissue of the neck and 0 y