SPECIAL FRACTURES. 454 As age athanccs, however, and the constitution becomes broken, less is to be exjDectcd fi’om conservative surgery. In the Ti eatment, the course to be pin'sued will depend upon the extent of the injuiy. It the fracture be not much comminuted, the wound in the soft 23iUts clean cut and but moderate in extent, and the large ■'i'cssels of the foot uninjured, an attempt should bo made to save the limb. But if there be great comminution ot bone, with dislocation of the toot, and ^icrha^is ruptm’c of the posterior tibial artery, in a person at or above the middle period of life, ampu- tation should be jiractised. In a young subject, such a serious injury even as this may be recovered from, if the Smgeon remove loose fragments, saw olf the sjilintered ends of the bone, and bring the soft parts together. If an attempt be made to save the limb, whether any bone have been excised or not, it should be jilaced secimely in a McIntyre’s splint (Fig. 190), and kept immovably fixed; j)crfect fixity of the limb is here of the first consequence. If much of the fibula should requme removal, Stromeyer has recommended that the limb be amputated instead, lest an useless foot, affected with a kind of valgus, be left. But, in children and young subjects, this inconvenience and deformity may be overcome by mechanical means ; and the iirobability of its occmi-ence would not, in my oiiinion, justify amjiutation. In badly set fractures near the ankle-j oint, great defoimity with much impairment of use of the foot may result. In these cases the inner malleolus will be found to jpi’oject greatly, the fibula to be ciuved inwards above its lower third, so as to form a concavity above the external malleolus, and the foot to be somewhat tinned outwards (Fig. 202). I have in two instances of such iU-set fr-actures succeeded in removing the deformity to a considerable extent, even after as lengthened a period as a year and a half or two years, by dividing the fibula subcutaneously by means of a narrow-bladed saw at the seat of greatest concaidty, forcibly adductmg the foot, and then putting up the fractme in a Dupuytren’s sphnt. Feactuebs OB THE BoHES OB THE FooT almost invariably result fr-om duect violence, and are usually accompanied by bruising and injuiy of the soft parts ; hence much displacement is rare, and, when the frac- tiue is sim2>le, rest and position alone are necessary. Compound fr-actm’es of the tarsal or metatai’sal bones, attended by much bruising and laceration, usually require partial removal of the foot, its disai’ticulation at the ankle-joint, or amjjutation in the lower third of according to the extent and severity of the injury. The Calcaneum may be broken by direct violence, as when a person jumping fr-om a height alights forcibly on his heel, and thus Ifactiu-es the bone. In this .way the bone is usually simply broken across in front of the ligaments without displacement. I have, however, seen both calcanea extensively com- minuted, being shattered to jiieces, in the case ol a lady, who, falling from a window on the third story, alighted on her heels. In some laie cases, by the Fig. 202.—Badly set Pott's l*t'ac- tiu'e, curable by operatiou. the leg,