TREATMENT OF GARBUNGLE. 677 Treatment. The Constitutional Treatment musfc be conducted on Wie o-cncral principles that guide us in the management of low and sloughing inflammations. After the bowels hare been cleared out, the patient should be put on ammonia and bark if much depressed, or else the mineral acids and quinine. The latter in large doses, as much as five grains every four hours, is often of great service. Our great reliance in the more severe forms of the disease is, however, in the free administration of dietetic stimulants and good nourishment. The best medicine in such cases is undoubtedly port wine or porter, given as freely as the patient can take it. The mode of employment of stimulants is of gi-eat importance in these cases. As a general rule, that stimulant will agree best to which the patient is accustomed during health. Beer and wine should not be given together, but either will go well ’ivith brandy. In addition to stimulants, good and abundant nourishment should be given; meat, if the patient can digest it ; if not, soups, such as strong beef-tea, essence of meat, or turtle-soup. The brandy-and-egg mixture is also especially serviceable. Local Treatment.—In the very early stage, when the disease appears as a small, angry, pointed vesicle situated on a hard brawny base, its further lu’ogress may often be completely arrested by opening the vesicle, and rubbing its interior with a pomted stick of potassa cum calce or nitrate of silver. If the carbuncle have attained a somewhat larger size, though still small, the wisest plan is to cover it with a piece of soap-plaster spread on leather, having a hole cut in the centre, through which the pus and sloughy matters may be discharged. Beyond this, nothing will be required. When larger, it should be poulticed. In these cases the question will arise whether it should be incised or not; and, if incised, in what way the operation should be practised. Some Surgeons imiformly adopt incisions ; others, rvith equal constancy, reject them. I think that the exclusive adoption of either method is eiToneous, and that the most successful treatment consists in allowing the question of early incision to be determined by the amount of tension existing in and aroimd the carbimcle. Should the parts be soft, relaxed, and comparatively painless, no advantage can result from incision ; but, on the other hand, if the tension be considerable, the agony gveat, and the constitutional distiu’bance dependent on both proportionately intense, nothing gives such immediate rehef, local and constitutional, as early and free incision. This may be done in two ways; either subcutaneously, by entering a long bistoury at one side of the carbuncle, and making two or three subcutaneous sweeps through the inflamed tissues in planes of different depths ; or by a free crucial cut, carried fairly through the diseased parts into the healthy tissues beyond them. By either method the constitutional disturbance accompanying and resulting from the extreme tension is at once removed, the local progress of the disease is checked, and extension of sloughing by strangulation of the tissues is prevented, ohould incision of the carbuncle not have been pcrfomied early, it may ecome necessary at a later period, in order to prevent the confinement of le pns and slough. Poultices arc now to be applied ; these may be simply 0 mseed meal and water, or they maybe made more stimulating by the a (1 ion of port wine, yeast, or beer-grounds. As the sloughs loosen, they