215 AMTUTATION FOR CONTUSED WOUNDS. from that least alfected. A principal source of danger and of death after am- putation in those cases, is the great disposition to the recurrence of the morbid condition in the stump, more particularly iu the lower extremity. (.)ut of twelve cases iu which I have seen or done amputation for this disease, this reciurence happened in seven instances. This tendency wU be increased by the proximity of the line of amputation to the gangrenous limit. But, even under the most unfiivourable circumstances, recovery ivill sometimes take place. Thus I have seen the flaps iu amputation for’spreadiiig gangTene infil- trated with gelatinous-looking fluid, and yet recovery take place. In a man whose arm I amputated at the shoulder-joint for^ spreading gangrene of the limb, the infiltration had extended as high as the scapula ; yet he made a 'veiy excellent recovery. In the lower extremity the liability to reciureiice of the gangrene is, howei'er, very much greater; and there can be but very little prospect of sa'sdng the patient if the thigh have once become reddened and infiltrated, even though the gangrene do not extend above the knee—invasion of the stump ensuing mider such circumstances with almost absolute certainty. JIuch of the success of the case will depend on the after-treatment. This must consist principally of light di’essings to the stump, full doses of liquor opii, and the eai’ly and free administration of stimulants, more particularly brandy and wine ; and attention to these points will often bring the patient tluough, though usually not without much difficulty and great constitutional distiu’bance. The question as to the jjeriocl at which amputation should be performed in contused wounds, has aheady been considered at pp. 57 to 59. It may be generally stated, that the sooner a condemned hmb is taken off, the less is the suffering, and the better the chance of recovery to the patient; and that, con- sequently, primary amputation should be practised hi these cases. By refer- ence to the tables on p. 57, it will be seen that, although the average mortality for all primary operations is less than the average mortality for all secondary operations, yet primary amputation through the thigh is more fatal than secondary amputation in the same region. Notwithstanding this, it is absolutely necessary in many cases to remove the injured limb within the first twenty- foiu hours. The higher rate of mortahty of primary thigh amputations may bo chiefly duo to the greater severity of the injuries that manifestly require immediate operation, than of those in which it is thought justifiable to attempt to^ save a limb ; and certainly, of the two alternatives, of leai'ing a badly crushed and mangled limb until siippiuation has set up, and thus exposing the patient to all the risks of gangrene, erysipelas, pyaamia, &c., or removing it at once, the latter is the one attended with least danger to the patient. A limli is sometimes so soA’erely and hopelessly crushed and torn that any attempt at its preservation must be useless ; whilst at the same time the patient is so severely injured internally, or is so prostrated by the general shock to the system, that amputation as a formal operation would be as useless as it would be unjustifiable, the patient having at most, perhaps, but a few hours to live. In these circumstances the best thing that can be done is to put on a tourniquet tightly, partly to restrain hannorrhage, and partly to restrain the painful quivering of the muscles, and to wrap up the maimed limb in a Avet cloth. (Should tlic limb have been nearly completely detached—