SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 62 CHAPTEK III. —*— SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. There are, as has already been stated at p. 85, three distinct methods of amputating limbs, viz., the flap, the circular, and the oval. The choice of the method mfluences the shape, and to a certain degree, perhaps, the utility of the residting stump. But it in no way affects the safety of the patient, which is dependent on far different and far more important conditions than the manner in which the Surgeon shapes his incisions for the removal of the diseased or injiu-ed limb (p. 49). A skilful Surgeon will be able to produce a satisfactory stmnp by auy one of the three methods, and it is desirable that he shoidd be able to practise all. For although, as a general rule, one method may be more apj)licable than another, yet exceptional cases occur at times in which it may be advantageous to depart from the method usually adopted, and employ one of the others. In fact, a Surgeon should be eclectic in his method of ampu- tating, and select that which is most suitable to the circiunstances of the case before him. As a general rule, the flap method is that to which Surgeons give the preference in this country ; it is- that which I generally employ, and if.is, therefore, that which, noth few exceptions, I consider most useful. It is the method, therefore, Avhich I shall describe in this chapter. In describing this or any other method of amputating, precise rules may be laid doA\Ti for its performance through sound structiu’es. But it often hap- pens, especially in cases of injmy, that the destruction of tissue is so UTegular as to compel the Surgeon to depart from deflnite rules of practice, and to shape his flap as best he may from the uninjimed soft parts. There he must rely on his own judgunent. But so efficient is the moulding process of natin-e, that provided sufficient integumental covering be left on the muscles and bones, a stump that at first looks very in-egular and perhaps somewhat unsm’gical, will in a short space of time acquire a regular outfine and smooth surface, and will be eventually in all respects as useful as one that may fr’om the first have been fashioned more artistically. Amputations of the Hand.—The Fingers often require amputation for injury or disease, more especially as the result of bad whitlow. In many cases the ungual phalanx becomes necrosed, and may usually most readily be removed without amputation, by making an incision through the pulp of the finger and then extracting the diseased bone, thus saving the nail and pulp, which will form an excellent end to the finger ; and, if the operation be done in early childhood, a new and movable phalanx may form. In other cases, amputation will bo required. This may either be done by cutting into the joint from its dorsal aspect with a naiTow-bladed bistoury, nuining across it lightly, touching* the latoi’al ligaments, and making the flap fr’om the palmar txspect (Fig. IG); or the flap may conveniently be made fr'oin the palmar surface by transfixion.