INFLAMMA TION. 136 Treatment.—The treatment of ebrouie inflammation is far more diiflcult, and requires much more attention, than that of the acute fonn of the disease. Chronic inflammation is so frequently complicated Avith various imhealthy conditions of the system, and -wath an impaired state of the general health, by ■which, indeed, it is often kept up, that much practical tact and skill ai’e re- quired in caiTying out the therapeutic indications properly. Constitutional Treatment of Chronic Inflammation.—In the treat- ment of chronic inflammation we have not so much to subdue inflammatory action, as to remove structimal changes and other effects induced by it. Hence, om- object is not to produce a great and sudden impression on the system, as we are often required to do in the treatment of the acute affection. It is not in this way that chi’onic inflammation can ever be cined, or its effects removed. The patient might be bled almost to death, and still the diseased action would go on in the inflamed part. It is true that the same antiphlogistic means are employed in arresting the chronic as in cutting short the acute form of the disease, but they are used in a less energetic mamier; our object being to induce a gradual and continuous improvement in the state of the system and of the diseased part. Local nutrition is always deeply modified in chronic inflammation ; and it can only be restored to its normal condition by improv- ing the patient’s general health, as ■well as by producing an impression on the part itself by appropriate topical means. Hence, in the treatment of chronic inflammation, hygienic measures are of the first consequence. In most cases, nothing can be done without proper attention to these ; and much can be done by these that caimot be affected by any more dhect medicinal means. The treatment of this form of inflammation must like^wise be varied according as it is uncompheated, occiUT-ing in an otherwise healthy constitution, and assuming a sthenic type ; or as it occins in a cachectic and feeble system, assuming a congestive or passive character ; or as it is met with in an unhealthy constitu- tion, affecting a specific form. In the management of these various forms of chronic inflammation the patient must be kept at rest, and, if the disease be at all extensive, confined to bed. He should be in j)ure air, and, as a general ride, have a light and mi stimula ting diet. The regulation of the diet is of much consequence, and the amount and quality of the noinishment afforded must be carefully pro- portioned to the age, strength, and previous habits of the patient, as well as to the degree and the seat of the inflammation, and the foiTn of constitutional fever that accompanies it. In the more active form of chronic inflammation, farinaceous slops, at most beef-tea, and light puddings, can alone be allowed.^ In the less active forms occun-ing in feeble constitutions, ■\\nth depression of general power, animal food of a light kind may be given, and the scale of nom’ishment increased until stimulants, as beer, wine, or brandy, aie allcHed. Nothing requires gTeater nicety in practice than to proportion the diet, and to determine the cases in which stimulants are necessary. It may be stated generally that, the more the disease assumes the asthenic and passii’c forms, the more are stimulants required ; until, at last, in the tiuly adynamic type, our pnncipal trust is in these agents, and large.quantities of nine. Inane y, anc ammonia are required to maintain life. . Mercury is of essential service in the more active forms of clnonic in tim