402 SPECIAL FPAGTUUES. self so inucli about the union of the fi’actuvc, as aljout the prevention of pain to the patient in lu’eathing, and of the subsequent occniTence of serious inflam- mation or other miscliief within the chest. i\jiy displacement that may exist usually remedies itself. The chest-wall, even Avhen extensively flattened, gradually expands under the influence of the respiratory mo’cements. It, however, a portion of the rib continue depressed, it had most certainly better be left so : the suggestions that have been made for elevating these fractures by m6ans of shaiq) hooks and screw-probes, being more likely than the continuance of the depression to occasion serious mischief to the contents of the thorax. In order to prevent undue motion of the broken bone and consequent irritation prodirccd by its punctming the plema, or lung, the movements of the injined part of the chest may be restrained by the appli- cation of a broad flannel roller, or of a laced napkin roimd it. Instead of, or in addition to these means, it A^^ll be foimd most useful to apply a roll of adhesive plaster round the chest. The plaster must be about a foot in Avidth, and should be sufficiently long to make one and a half tiuns round the body. It should be applied very tightly, and may be left on for ten days or a fortnight, when it may require reapplication. It supports the chest more fiinily and evenly than an ordinary bandage, affording the patient great comfort. There is alAvays a considerable amount of callus throAAm out in the repair of fractimed ribs, on account of the constant moA'ement that necessarily takes place betAveeu the broken ends in respiration. In some cases, hoAAuver, more particularly in those in AA'hich the fragments are driA'en iiiAAnrds, it mil be found that the con- striction of the chest, by bandage or plaster, becomes unbearable to the patient, producing great pain and intense dyspneea. In these circumstances all con- striction must be removed, and the patient be alloAAnd to breathe easily, but he must be confined to bed. If the loAver ribs be broken, the diaphi’ag’m may become irritated by the projection inwards of the fractured bone ; and if the plaster and bandage be applied too tightly, spasmodic action of that muscle may ensue, occasioning distressing hiccup and dyspnoea. In gimshot injuries of the chest AAuth splintering of the ribs, all broken spicula of bone must be carefully picked out, and the wound lightly coA'ered AAlth Avater-dressing. In such cases, the grave injiu’ies usually sustained by the intrathoracic organs aaHI absoih the Sm’geon’s attention ; and for their treat- ment I must refer to Chapter XXVIII. The preA'ention of inflammatory action must be attempted, by the employ- ment of bleeding if necessary ; but certainly by the adoption of a spare diet and complete rest. Any complications that may occm, such as emphysema, or inflammation of the lungs or plema, must be treated in accordance AAoth the principles that will be laid doAim in speaking of Injuries of the Chest generally. It occasionally happens that fractmn of one or more of the Costal Cartilages, especially the fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth, is produced by direct violence. They may be separated from their junction Avith the rib, or broken across tbe middle. The existence of fracture may be determined by the pain on pressure, mobility, and iiTegularity at the seat of injiuy. The same treatment is lequiiet for this fr-acture as for a broken rib ; the broken cartilage most commonly uniting by a bony callus Avhich smrouuds the Iractmcd ends.