461 reduction of dislocations. it may have hitched, or from the cd-c of the slit in the lacerated capsule, it ^vill be drawn at once into its proper position by the action of its own muscles, with a sudden and distinct snap ; the muscles of the part being the most efficient agents in the reduction, so soon as the bone is placed in a position Inr them to act upon it. AVhen, however, the patient has been placed under the influence of chloroform, the muscular system being thoroughly relaxed, the bone n-ill not slip into its place with a snap or sudden jerk, but is reduced more quietly, and rather by the efforts of the Surgeon than by any sudden contraction of its own muscles. It is important to note these differences in the mode of reduction ; lest the Surgeon, when chloroform has been fully adminisfceied, failing to hear the snap or feel the jerk wliich he expected, imagining that the bone lias not been reduced, should continue to use an improper degree of extension. Manipulation of the hmb—that is, impressing upon it certain movements of extension and flexion, of adduction and of abduction—is often of essential seri'ice in effecting reductions. It is useful in those cases, particulaily, where the obstacle to replacement of the head of the bone is due less to muscular con- traction tlian to the locking together of osseous surfaces, or the impediment offered by the displacement of the ligaments of the part. In the hip, elbow, and knee it has been especially serviceable,- and has now taken the place of many of the more formal methods of reduction by extension in the axis of the limb, with the view of overcoming forcible resistance offered by muscular con- tractions or capsular entanglement. The purely mechanical means for the reduction of dislocation are sufficiently simple : the patient’s body, and the articular cavity into which the luxated bone is to be replaced, are fixhd by a split sheet, a jack-towel, a padded belt, or some such contrivance, by which counter-extension is practised. In some cases the hands of an assistant, or of the Surgeon himself, or the pressiue of his knee or heel, constitute the best counter-extending means. Extension may be made either by the Sm’geon grasping the limb to be reduced and drawing it do-wnwards, or else by means of a bandage or jack- towel fixed upon the part, with the clove-hitch knot applied in the way represented in the an- nexed cut (Fig. 204). If more force be required, the multiplying pulleys (Fig. 229), or Bloxam’s dislocation tourniquet (Fig. 233), may be used, by which any amount of extending force that may be required can readily be set up and maintained. Jarvis’s “ adjuster ” is an useful and powerful iu- stinment for the same purpose. These contri- vances, however, arc much less frequently required now than formerly, owing to Surgeons taking advan- _ , . „ Fig. 204.—Bamlage .apiilieil for cage of the paralysing effects of chlorof 01m Extension: Clove-luteU Knot. upon the muscular system, aud consequently not requiring so much force to overcome its contraction, and employing the