749 SOFT FIBROMATA. in the Hindoo and ncgi-o races that this disease attains its greatest devclopmen . It chiefly attacks the genitals, the liypertrophy affecting the skin and arcolai tissue of the scrotum and penis in the male, forming an enormous mass httj, seventy, or e^-en a hundred pounds in weight, or depending from the labia m the female. The remarkable enlargement of the leg occurring m the Mauritius and some parts of the West Indies, and hence termed Barbadoes leg, is an affection of this kind. The skin in these cases becomes dark coloured, rough, and scaly, like that of an elephant, whence the name of the disease. It should perhaps be classed rather nith diseases of the lymphatic system than mth tumours properly so called. In the Treatment of these affections, pressure and iodine applications may be tried in the earlier stages, with the view, if possible, of checking theii gTOwth ; at a later period they must, if large, be removed by operation, though this procedure is at times an extremely severe one, owing to their great size. Timioiu'S of the circumscribed variety, described by Paget as fibro-cellular, are not of common occurrence ; and when met with they are most frequently found in the serotum, the labium, the deep muscular interspaces of the thigh or axilla, and on the scalp, in ivhich situation they may form large masses, attaining some- times to a weight of many pounds. Tnien seated in the subcutaneous tissue these tumours may become peduncidated, as in the accom- panying figiue (277), which represents a tumour of this kind which I removed from the side of a woman. I have removed one weighing nearly foiu pounds fi-om the axilla of a woman, where it lay between the seiTatus magnus and the ribs, forming a tumour of great size. MTien they occiu about the scrotum and labiimi, these tumoiu’s must not be confoimded with elephantiasis of these parts, fi’om which they may be distinguished by being limited and cir- cumscribed masses, and not mere outgrowths. Paget observes that, when occiuTing about the genital organs, they are found in young women and in old men. They happen only in adults who otherwise are in good health, and grow quickly, forming soft, clastic, rounded, and smooth tumours ; they are not attended by any pain. After removal they are found to iiosscss a thin capsule, to be of a yellowish colour, and to contain a large quantity of infiltrated serous fluid, Avhich may be squeezed out abundantly, and coagulates on standing. This fluid may be so abundant as to give rise to distinct fluctuation. Thus, a few years ago, I removed a soft fibroma from amongst the short muscles of the thmnb, which had been previously treated unsuccessfully by puncture, under the impression that it was cystic in nature. Under the microscope these tumours display a beautifully delicate nct- Fig. 27".—Peiululoxis Fibro-ccllular Tumoiu'.