550 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. way, sufficient space may usually be gained without the necessity of applying the trephine. If, however, the inner table be splintered to a considerable extent, or if there be no convenient angle that can be I’emoved, the trephine must be applied in such a way that at least half its circle is situated upon the edge that o'rerhangs the depressed bone ; the Surgeon sawing out by means of this instrument a portion of the undepressed skull, in order that he may more conveniently get at the fragment. After a half circle of bone has been removed in this way, the depressed splinters may be taken out, a Hoy’s saw still being occasionally required before the whole can be removed ; the flaps of scalp should then be laid domi, a sutine or tAvo appUed, and water-dressing put over the Avound. Rigorous treatment must then be adopted, with the view of preventing or removing inflanunatory symptoms. From the success that has attended the treatment of depression of the skull without fracture, by means of pneumatic traction, it has been recommended in cases of simple depressed fracture, AAuthorrt injm’y of the brain or its mem- branes, to make an attempt to draw the depressed portion of bone to its normal level by means of a cupping-glass, adapted to the uneven surface of the skull by means of a cell of glazier’s putty. In all cases of Punctured Fracture, AAffiere there is but slight iujmy of the external table, Avith considerable splintering and depression of the inner one, or where there is a narrow and deep depression of the bone, the trephine must be apphed on different principles from those that guide us in its use in ordinary depressed fr’actines. In the punctured fractm’e it is apphed, not to remove symptoms of compression which, in all probabihty, may not exist; but with the AueAV of preventing the inflammation Avhich will to a certainty be set up if the splinters of the inner table be alloAA'ed to continue irritating the membranes and brain. Hence it is a rule in singery, in all cases of pimctm’ed fracture, to apply the trephine at once. In these cases a trephine AAuth a lai’ge crown shordd be used, and the circle of mjm’ed bone itself must be sawn aAvay (Fig. 250). Should, hoAvever, the use of the trephine have been delayed in these cases until inflammatory action has been set up, the instrument may still be applied AAuth advantage. Many years ago a boy was admitted into University College Hospital, on the sixteenth day after having been struck on the side of the head by a large nail, which projected from a door that fell upon hhn. Ro symptoms of any kind had occinred until the eleventh day after the accident, when he became duU and lost his appetite ; on the sixteenth day, that of his amission, he had suddenly become drowsy and dehrious, but answered rationally when spoken to, and complained of pain in the head. The pupils Aj^ere dilated, the skin hot, and the pulse quick. On examination, a small round apertme, iioin which some fetid pus exuded, was discovered on the right parietal eminence. On introducing a probe, nbich the Fig. 250.—Treiihiued circle rotiucl Pimctiired Frac- tvu'e. Natural size. be felt. S. Cooper immediately trephined the boy, renioTing a eirele of to including the smaU apcrtin-e. The inner table corresponding to tins sphntered to some extent, and the dura mater was thickened and inflamed , but the patient recoA'ered Avithout a bad symptom. I