727 POST MORTEM APPEARANCES. found scattered througli the substance of the organ -without aflFecting its pleural surface, or gi-vdng rise to any of the wedge-shaped masses above described. The Liver fi’equently presents no abnormal appearances, even in severe cases, where the lungs have sutfercd most markedly ; in others, again, it is the seat of many abscesses, which often attain a ^-ery large size. They have much the same character, both as to form and position, as those in the lungs, and are usually sun’ounded by a zone of hEemorrhage and congestion. "WTien, however, they occur as primaiy abscesses without any deposits in the lungs preceding them, they may appear as simple collections of pus, ha-dng a more or less branched an-angement. This foim of pya3mic deposit does not appear to be the result of embolism, but to be referable to those other conditions of ichor- rhEemia or septicEemia Arhich have been already described. It must be remem- bered that hepatic abscess may result from intestinal mischief, either typhoid or dysenteric ; and therefore the occurrence of this condition does not neces- sarily indicate the existence of general pyEemia. In cases in which the general blood-poisoning is more marked than the local effects, the liver is found to be swollen, its structm’e is soft and more friable than usual, and its coloiu’ uniform and muddy. The epithelium is found on microscopic examination to be ex- cessively granular. 1 he Spleen is usually large, soft, very friable, and often of an almost pulpy consistence. Infarcts uncomiected with the pyaemic state are frequently met Avith in this organ ; metastatic abscesses are not, however, very common. The Kidneys probably stand next to the liA^er in the order of frequency Avith Avhich they are affected. They are almost invariably swollen and soft; the epithehum cloudy, excessively granular, and often choking the tubules in imgular niasses. They are A-ery fr’equently congested, and sometimes the seat 0 destructive nephritis ; when abscesses aj)pear, they jDresent the same varieties as those found in other parts. The Intestines rarely suffer, but abscesses may be found in the submucous or subserous areolar tissue. Local peritonitis not unfrequently foUows the formation of hepatic abscesses, and may become very severe. Of the other oigans, the prostate is the most commonly affected ; abscesses forming in the A enous p exuses Avhich surromid this body. Metastatic deposits rarely form in ^ ^ embolism of the cerebral arteries is not uncommon as a rcsiilfc of A tilvulcir clisGtisG of ttiG liGfirfc, One 01 moie Joints are usually found to be swollen and tender ; and on opemng them a large quantity of pale yellow or thick, flaky, and pmiform muci escapes. Ihere are congestion of the synovial fringes, and softening or destruction of the cartilage. I he general character of the anatomical lesions present in this disease may t^e summed up as folloAvs .—a general tendency to local congestion, inflamma- absco^^ of blood, accompanied by the formation of slough or cases tn majority of cases to thrombosis or embolism, but in other fluidity ^ ^ ^ always presents remarkable exception of ° decomposition. In other cases, with the heaffhy body ^ abscesses, the appearances may be those of a perfectly