ENCYSTED TUMOVES. 741 health be out of order. Erysipelas is the only danger to be apprehended : it is especially apt to occur in elderly people of a stout make and florid com- plexion. \\"hen seated about the back, trunk, or hbnbs, they usually require to be dissected out, being thin and more closely incorporated with the skin ; and often, in consequence of former inflammation, adherent to the subjacent parts. In doing this, cai’e should be taken that the whole of the cyst-wall is extir- pated ; the wound, which should be dressed lightly, speedily heals. If, how- ever, any portion of the wall be left, it should bo freely rubbed with nitrate of silver, lest a troublesome fistula remain. When the tumoiu’s are situated between the shoulders or on the back, and the patient is unwilling to submit to an operation, I have sometimes easily and successfully remo^'ed them by opening up Avith a probe the small black orifice, which will always be found leading into them, squeezing out the contents of the cyst, and then pushing in two or three silk threads, which, acting like a seton, have excited the requisite amount of inflammatory action to bring about a closure of the cyst. In some cases, in which, from the constitutional condition of the j)atient, or Irom prejudice on his part, the use of the knife is objectionable, these cysts may be removed by rubbing the siu’face freely either Avith potassa fusa or fuming nitric acid. I^Tien the slough so formed separates, the cyst comes aAA^ay with it. The horns and semi-mah'gnant idcers that result from these gTOAvths, may require excision. If, however’, the ulceration be connected with the cranium by its base, or be very extensiA’e, as in the case depicted (Fig. 273), it wdU be safer to treat it by the application of the chloride of zinc, or by occasionally touching it Avith fused potass. (&) A arious forms of encysted tumom* may arise fr'om the Closure and Dilatation of the Ducts of other Excretory Organs, as, for instance, cystic tmnours of the breast from the obstruction of the lacteal ducts, rauula fr’om obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland, mucous cysts of the mouth or A'agina fr’om the obstruction of the ducts of the mucous glands. These affections, hoAvever, constitute special diseases, the consideratioir of AAhich must be defeiTed to subsequent chapters. The general principle of Treatment of such diseases consists either in restoring the freedom of the outlet by the excision of a portion of the wall, or obliterating the cyst by making an incision into it, and alloAvdiig it to gTanulate from the bottom. (c) Cysts may arise from Distension of Ca-vities Avhich are un- provided -with any Excretory Duct, as, for instance, the bursae, which often attain a very considerable size in these circumstances. Cystic tumours formed in connection Avith the sheaths of tendons, or gancjlia, belong also to t IS class ; and strictly speaking, hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis should also be included. When arising from burste, the normal structure of the Avail 0 the bursa becomes greatly altered ; sometimes it is thin and expanded ; at o lers it acquires a thick fibrous, almost ligamentous appearance. Inside, the cyst IS often warty-looking, and its Avails are often laminated, the layers bein<>- composed of imperfectly developed fibrous tissue. Sometimes by gradual ’eniiig of the cyst-wall the central caA’ity becomes almost obliterated, and the disease assumes the form of a solid tumour. Not unfrequeiitly attached