MODES OF AMPUTATING. 35 is applied, but which is especially apt to ensue when the instrument is slowly screwed up. The fimt effect of the tightening of the tourniquet is to compress Fig. 5.—Pressiu’e with Thiimhs. Application of Tourniquet to Femoral Arterj'. the large veins of the limb ; the second, to arrest the flow of blood through the arteries : hence the more slowly it is caused to act, the greater vdll be the venous engorgement of the limb. The blood that flows from the limb during an amputation is almost entirely venous, coming from the lower part of the member. In those cases, as of chronic disease, in which it is of great import- ance to save blood as much as possible, it is a good precaution either to keep the limb raised for a few minutes before the application of the tommiquet, or to bandage it tightly from below upwards immediately before the tourniquet is apphed ; thus not only iireventing aU the venous congestion, but emptying the vessels of their contained blood. When this is done, the tourniquet should be applied ■without a pad. In this Avay the amputation may be rendered almost bloodless, or Esmarch’s method, described at page 29, may be adopted. So soon as the main arteries have been tied after the removal of the hmb, the tourniquet may be unscrewed and taken off"; the assistant, however, keej)ing his finger on the artery aboA’e the stimip, lest any vessels have been left untied, or a ligature slip. If the band be left only half loosened, it will often happen that venous haemon'hage continues abundantly from the stinnp, in consequence of the pressure of the instrament being still sufficient to prevent the retimi of the blood through the \'eins. This will at once cease on taking the tourniquet comjfletely off, and elevating the cut surfaces. 2. Mode of CuTTiifa through the soft farts.—In amputations and dis- articulations, the Surgeon has the choice of four Ojm'ative Procedures: (1) The circiflar method ; (2) the oval method ; (3) flaps of various sizes and shapes ; and (4) a combination of skin-flaps with a circular cut through the muscles. It is not my intention to enter into a discussion as to the relative merits of the circular and flap methods, for which I would refer to the Avritings of Liston