INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 554 and other conditions, which cannot very readily be determined. If the injury implicate those portions of the nervous centre at the base of the brain, the in- tegrity of which is necessary for the proper maintenance of the respiratory act, immediate death must necessarily ensue. If, however, portions of this organ that are less essential to lii'e, as the anterior lobes and upper part of the hemi- spheres, be injured, but very slight symptoms may occur ; and in some cases there is no positive indication by which this injury of the cerebral substance can be determined, except by its exposm'e and escape through the external wmund. Hence, even the Avorst iiijiules of the head are rarely immediately fatal, the patient being seldom killed outright, unless the medulla oblongata or pons Varohi be Avounded. Children, especially, have been known to bear extensive injiu'ies of the brain, and CA'cn the loss of a considerable quantity of cerebral matter, Avithout any very serious effects, either immediate or remote ; and it is by no means imcommon to see them live several days with an extent of injiu’y to the brain Avhich Avould rapidly have proved fatal to an adult. Indeed it may be stated generally, that the younger the patient, the greater the chance of recovery. So, also, the prognosis may be considered more favoiu-able in men of the labommg class, w^hose minds are but little exercised, than in persons of more cultivated intellect. TAvitching of the muscles and epileptiform fits are commonly met Avith Avhen the brain is lacerated and these, compheating coma, or alternating with it, indicate the natme of the mischief. . , , , i i i Foreign bodies even of large size and considerable weight have been lodged for a considerable time AA-ithin the skull, in contact with the brain, AVithout occasioning death. Thus Hennen states that he has seen five cases m av nc bullets were lodged within the skull, that did not prove immediately fatal. Cunningham relates the case of a boy who lived for twenty-four days mth the breech of a pistol, weighing nine drachms, lying on the tentorium, and restuig against the occipital bone. O’Callaghan has recorded the remarkable case of an officer who hved about seven years Avith the breech of a fow ing- piece, weighing three ounces, lodged in the forehead ; the right of the brain resting on the flat part, from which it was only sepiuated by false From the great variety of effects produced by these injimes, it must be CA-ident that there can be no one set of symptoms indicative of wound of t brain proAuded there be no external wound through the cCTcbral substance can be ascertained. In_ those cases oi^iin^ry not exist, we can at most only suspect laceration, if we symptoms of compression or concussion are associated with signs that d^ /smfilv occur in those conditions Avhen uncomplicated ; such as conti action of “Tas t — p-edo.i„ate; These