INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 53° stages of tlais condition. In the early stage, the treatment tliat I liave found most sncccssthl is of a negative character, and consists in tlie avoidance of all active measures. No good, but much harm, may result Irom bleeding, purg- ing, and mercurialising the patient. Complete rest, the removal of all mental and sensual excitement, shaving the head, the application of ice, a mild aperient or an occasional enema, are all that can he done in the way of medical treat- ment. As the constitutional powers are depressed, they must not he too much lowered by complete abstinence from food, and small quantities of stimulants may usually be advantageously given. A tea-s]30onful of brandy in a little water, or beef-tea, every hour or two, according to the condition of the pulse and the temperatiu’c of the skin, will generally be required. In some cases, where there is great restlessness, and some delirium, without any sign of encephalitis having supervened, chloral will be found of great value, or an opiate even may be given to quiet the patient and induce sleep. This cerebral irritation is the only form of primary cerebral distmbance in Avhich I have seen opiates act beneficially ; but their administration requires great care, and must not be ventmed on if there be any elevation of temperatme or quickness of pulse. After a time these signs of depression give way to those of subacute meningitis, the patient becomes noisy, shouting and crying, restless and sleepless. At this period, and in such circumstances, venesection may be practised with great advantage. The bleeding should be followed up by the administration of bromide of potassimn or of chloral, and idtimately by the more special treatment of meningeal irritation. In all cases of Coma from Compression, the pressure must be relieved before it can be expected that the coma will subside. But, besides this great and obvious indication, which must be carried out in diflerent ways according to the nature of the compressing cause, there are certain general considerations to be attended to, by which the patient’s condition may be much relieved. Thus the bowels should be freely opened by placing a drop of croton-oil, mixed with a little mucilage, in the patient’s mouth, or by the use of oleaghaous or terebinthinate enemata. The lu'ine is to be drawn off t^vice in the twenty- fom- hours, the room darkened and kept quiet, and ice or an evaporating lotion applied to the head. When symptoms of compression occur as the result of inflciMMdtion inside, the skull, the treatment becomes surrounded by difficulties. If, notwithstand- ing that antiphlogistic measures have been pushed to their full extent, rigors occur and coma supervene, conjoined with a certain amount of con- tinuous inflammatory action, the question will always arise as to whether tre- phining should be had recoinse to on the supposition of matter having formedt In these cases two great difficidties present themselves ; the first has reference to the existence of pus vdthiu the skull, and the second to its situation. The question as to the actual existence of Pus within the SkuU. and to the dependence of the symptoms of coma upon the compression exercised by the purulent deposit, is always a difficult one to decide. There arc, as has already been stated, no absolute and unequivocal symptoms indicative ot the formation of pus within the skull; symptoms closely simulating t lose tia accompany its presence being often produced by the cffiision ot seium, oi o