45° HP EC IA L FRA G TUBES. iiiicl not nnfrcqucntly, after a proper but unsuccessful attempt to saA-e the limb, the profuseuess of the suppuration and the amount of constitutional debility may render imperatiA'e secondary amputation al)OA"e, at, or below the knee. Haemorrhage is a common complication of compound fractuics of the leg. When A’enoiAS and moderate in quantity, it may be airested by position and cold. When primary, arterial, and abundant, proeeeding from laceration of one of the tibials, the line of practice to be adopted must to a great extent be determined by the situation of the fracture and of the arterial wound, and the state of the soft parts. If the soft parts be much torn, and the Avound be anyAvhere aboA'e the lower third of the limb, it is useless for the Surgeon to attempt to seciu’e the bleeding A'essels by gToping amongst and under the deep muscles of the limb, infiltrated and disorganised as they are by the mjm-y and by extravasation. It is equally futile to ligature the superficial femoral artery l^'imary traumatic haBmonhage from the posterior tibial artery. Such an operation either fails in arresting the heemoiThage, or, if it stop the circulation sufficiently for this, giA'es rise to gangrene. There is, consequently, no resoince but amputation ; and the sooner this is practised, the better aavU be the patient’s chance of recovery. If, hoAvever, the fractiu'e be situated in the loAAnr third, and the artery be torn low doAAn in the fimb, where the vessels are superficial, and more especially if the injury be near the ankle-joint, an attempt might be made—provided other circumstances were favourable—to apply a hgatme to the bleeding arteiy, and thus to save the limb. This Avould be more feasible Avith wound of the anterior than of the posterior tibial artery. But useless as experience has proved the ligature of the superficial femoral to be in iiyrimary haemorrhage' from the posterior tibial artery in compound fractures, of the leg, it is othei’Avise in secondary haemonhage : in such cases that arteiy has been tied Avith good results, in seA'eral instances. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Ankle-Joint are amongst the most common injuries of the bones of the lower extremity. They are usually occasioned by tAAHsts of the foot, by catching it m a hole whilst rinming, by jumping from a height to the ground, or off a carriage in rapid motion. These fractiu'es aie usually associated with severe strain, or even disloca- tion, of the ankle. TAvist of the foot in these cases must not be confoimded Avith dislocation of the ankle. In a tAvist the foot carries with it the lower fragments of the leg-bones, and the malleolar arch in a more oi less perfect state. In a dislocation, the foot is throAvn out from under this arch. The tA\dst of the foot is almost invariably outwards, Avith the inner side down- Avards and the outer edge turned up, or the sole remains in this direction, though not ahvays to the extent that Dupuytren states, and the imiev Most commonly the toes arc turned someivhat outwards, and the heel raw aids. I'iK. li)S.—Di-siilaceineiit of IBoiiuy and Foot in Pott’s Fractuve. (Ricluird).