148 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. Jocular, tlie different cysts being connected by narrow channels of communica- tion ; in tliis way I have seen a lai’ge abscess extending from the lumbar Tertebrse through the iliac fossa down the thigh, the ham, and the leg, imtil at last it was opened by the side of the tendo Achillis, forming five or six dis- tinct cysts, communicating with one another by contracted channels (Fig. 74). Effects.—The pressure-effects of an abscess are often important. By pres- siu’e on the nerves of a part, it may give rise to very severe pain and spasm at a distance from its seat. The pains occasioned by the pressme of some forms of chronic abscess ujDon neigh- bom’ing nerves, have been mistaken for those of rheumatism or neiualgia. When blood-vessels come into relation vdth an abscess, they usually become coated by a thick layer of lymph, which pro- tects them from injury. In- some cases, however, they are obliterated by the conjoined effects of the iwessiue and the inflammation, in which they as well as the adjacent tissues partake. In other cases, more particularly in strumous and cachectic indmduals, the blood- vessels, not havmg been guarded by lymph, have ulcerated and biust into the cyst of the abscess, occasioning sud- den and dangerous or even fatal hemor- rhage (p. 158). It is seldom, however, that a large artery or vein pom'S its contents into an abscess that has not been opened. These occiuTences ha\e chiefly taken place in the neck, in which situation both the carotid aiteiy, as in a case described by Liston, and the internal jugular vein, have opened into the cyst of an abscess. The various mucous canals, especially the trachea and the luethra, may be injiuiously compressed by neighbouring abscesses; so also bones may become necrosed, and joints inflamed and destroyed, fr-om the same C9^I1SG Diagnosis —The diagnosis of abscess, though usually easily made, at tunes requires close attention. The Surgeon believes that an acute abscess is about to form when, after rigors and some modification of the mfliuumatory fever, he finds the local signs characteristic of the formation of pus ; more especially a throbbing pain in the part, mth softening of any induration that may have ■pig. 74.—Large Psoas ALscess extending down the Thigh and Leg. existed, and oedema of the areolar tissue covering it. I is suspicion is nine ertainty, and he knows that an abscess has formed, when, after the ocmir- of these symptoms, fluctuation can be felt, and the other signs manifest rence