SPECIAL FRACTURES. 4o8 tuificquenfcly theie is double fracture in the neighbourhood of this articulation ;• thus the acromion may be broken, as well as the neck of the humerus. These complications, as well as, in many cases, the amount of contusion, and the rapid swelling that takes place, necessarily render the diagnosis somewhat difficult. 2. The Acromion, forming as it does the very tip of the shoulder, is more frequently broken than any other part of the scapula. But, in spite of its exposed situation, fracture of this process through its base is not very common at least I have seen but few cases of it, and there is good reason to helieve that many of the cases of supposed fractm’e in this situation are in reality cases of delayed ossification of the fine of junction between the base and the epiphysis. Notwithstanding this source of fallacy, there can be no doubt, as is proved by numerous prepai’ations, that this fracture does occur. The Signs of this fracture are obvious. When the acromion is broken ofl* near its root, the arm hangs as a dead weight by the side, and the patient, feeling as if his arm were dropping off, supports it with the other hand. There- is flattening of the shoulder, which is most marked when the patient is looked at from behind ; and the head of the humerus can be felt somewhat lower in the axilla than natural. On running the finger along the spine of the scapula, a sudden inequality in the line of the bone can be detected ; and, on raising- the elbow and rotating the arm, crepitus can be felt, the rounded outline of the- shoulder being restored. When the tip only of the acromion is broken off, the nature of the injury- may be suspected if the patient be unable to raise his arm to a level vith his head, so as to touch the crown, owing to some of the fibres of the deltoid having- lost their points of attachment; and it may be determined by the existence in a minor degi’ee of some of the preceding signs, which prevent the accident fr-om being confounded with paralysis of the deltoid from contusion ; and especially by the tip being felt to be detached. But as has already been stated, this may be a congenital defect, to which perhaps attention has only been directed when the shoulder has been bruised or otherwise injured. The Treatment consists principally in raising the elbow, so as to take off the- weight of the limb, and to push up the acromion by the head of the humerus. If the extremity only be broken off in front of the acromio-clavicular articula- tion, a pad may be placed between the elbow and the side, in order to direct the arm somewhat upAvards and inwards, and the hmb must be fixed in this- position by a bandage and sling. Should the fracture have taken place at or behind the line of the claAdcular articulation, the treatment must be the same as that for fractured claAficle. When the base of this process is broken across, there is not much separation between the fragments, and union usually takes place by bone. When the apex is detached, fibroid or ligamentous union generally occius, the fr-agments being widely separated. 3. The Coracoid Process is but seldom broken, there not being more than ten or twelve unequivocal cases of this accident recorded. It cannot happen, except by very direct A-iolence. There is in the Museum of Univei’sity College a preparation showing a fracture of the base of this process, implicating and extending through the glenoid cavity, and complicated with fracture across