463 DISLOCATIOXS OF OLD STANDIFO. osseous points in the nci<>-hbourhood of the joint, and to disentangle the displaced bone from any of these upon which it may be lodged. ^ especially the case in such hinge-joints as the jaw and elbow, in which the aiTangement of the articulation is somewhat complicated ; and in some orbi- cnlarloints, as the hip, Avhere the reduction is prevented liy the displacement and tension of torn ligamentary structures. When the patient is anoDsthe- tised, and aU muscular resistance has thus been removed, any remaining diffi- culty in eft'ecting reduction must be due to purely mechanical causes dependent on the disaiTangement of the bones and ligaments. Under the older methods of treatment, where much force was employed by pulleys or other similai contrivances, these were often torn thi’ough. But, since the introduction of mampidation, the Surgeon effects the reduction by a far less degxee of force, replacing the bone on simple mechanical pi’inciples, by relaxing the ligaments and disentangling the bones from one another. The situation and extent of the laceration of the capsule of the joint are also of great importance as offering* an obstacle to reduction, in some cases constricting the neck of the bone, in othei*s having one hp of the slit pressing against the bone in such a way as to I resist all efforts to move it. An extreme degree of force is required to tear through and thus overcome obstructions of this kind ; but they may readily be relaxed and slipped aside by skilful manipulation and attention to the position of the limb. After the dislocation has been reduced, the bone must be retained in posi- tion by proper sphnts and bandages ; the joint being kept quiet for two or three weeks, according to its size, so as to allow proper union to take place in the capsule and neighbouring structur as. Any consecutive inflammation may often be prevented by the continuous application of cold ; and, if set up, must be treated by local antiphlogistic measures. After reduction, the limb must be kept flrmly fixed and at rest for rivo or three weeks, so as to allow the lacerated ligaments and capsule to recover themselves. But fixation of the joint must not be maintained for too long a time, lest adhesions, often of a painfid character, form. These may be avoided by passive motion. If they have formed, they may readily be broken doAra by the manipulations commonly employed in such cases by “bone-setters,” who, flxing the joint by pressure of the thumb on the painful spot, in a mamier well described by W. Hood, impart sudden and forcible movement to the hmb, by which adventitious bands are ruptiu’ed. Dislocations of Old Standing.—If a dislocation have been left unre- duced for some weeks or months, changes, which have already been described, take place in and around the displaced articular structmes, the double effect of which is to render the replacement of the bones in their normal position more and more difficult as time goes on, and to lead to the formation of a new j though imperfect articulation at the seat of the displaced bone. I When a dislocation has been left permanently unreduced for a considerable Ij length of time, as for years, the amount of utility in the limb will depend I partly on the kind of joint that has been dislocated, partly on the particular i variety of dislocation that has occiUTcd. Thus, as a general rule, greater free- I dom of movement and greater utility of limb will be found in old-standing ' dislocations of ball-and-socket than of hinge-joints. But in ball-and-sockel;