ntPAIRMENT OF VISIOFT FROM SPINAL INJURY. 579 section of the cervical sympathetic. The conclusion that must necessarily he detluced from these observations is, that this portion of the spinal cord— the oculospinal axis — includes Avithin itself both vaso-motor and oculo- piipillary filaments Avhich are connected Avith the cervical portion of the sympathetic. Claude Bernard has pointed out clearly the feet that the vaso-motor and the oculo-pupillary ncrA'cs possess different reflex actions. By dividing the firet two dorso-spinal roots, he finds that the oculo-pupillar phenomena are produced A\-ithout occasioning the vaso-motor effects of Avascular injection and increase of temperature ; Avhereas, by dividing the ascending sympathetic filament betAA'een the second and third ribs, the vaso-motor phenomena are developed in the head Avithout any influence being excited on the eye through the medium of the oculo-pupillary filaments. He sums up his observations as folloAvs. “ The vaso-motor and the oculo-pupillary nerves do not act in the same AA'ay. Thus a slight irritation of the auricular nerve only occasions A-ascularisation on the coiTesponding side ; whilst the same imtation produces reflex moA ements in both eyes at the same time. The reflex vascular actions do not appear to be capable of being produced on the opposite side to that Avhich IS imtated (d’lme maniere crois^e) ; and, besides this, they are limited and do not extend beyond a certain determined line of circumscription. All this IS in striking contrast with the oculo-pupiUar actions, which are on the contraiy general and crossed.” Clinical observations support the result of physiological experiment as to the connexion that subsists between the oculo-spinal axis of the cord and the inte^fly of Aisiou. The records of surgery contain numerous illustrations of the injiirious influence on the sight of bloAvs inflicted on the lower cervical and upper dorsal spine. . Allbutt remarks, that those injuries and concussions of e spine that occur high up are more injurious to vision than such as are in- flicted on the lower portion of the vertebral colmnn. suWmA'* cine ? Allbntt, who hiu. studied the fcfT ' opinion, in which I fully coincide, so clearly, of'eof % ‘ o™ "■onds. “ In default of a series back Tt'S’™ Tl7 - oonjectm-e that hyperaemia of the tack of the eye, following injury to the spine, is probably dependent upon a neater or less extension of the meiungeal irritation up to the b se of the brain Aow have we any reason to suppose that spinal meningitis does cree,run nto the encephalon ? We have : for, setting .4ide the curious hAd-srptom lM ur j"t is°tTc clemonstration of autopsy ^mes to miiA^itif i a t: ,C' pnftologists that ^cephalic scarcelv iioodf *1 . f ooinmon accompaniment of spinal meningitis. It is be' thc^co .. ° ^ “'planation of an ascending meningitis P P 2