COMPLICATED BISLOCATIONS. 4^7 same principles that i^nide the Surgeon in the management of a wounded ioint, \-iz., cold, or antiseptics, Avith drainage to secure the free escape ot the inflammatory products. OAving to the ruptiu-e of the ligaments aud_ ot the muscular attachments, there is usually no difficulty in the reduction, the bones being readily replaced ; but the danger consists in the destruc- tive inflammatory action that Avill be set up in the joint and limb from the extensive injury inflicted upon them. This varies greatly, according to the size and situation of the joint, and the state of the soft parts. ^ If the joint be small, as one of the phalangeal articulations, the dislocation may be reduced, and the parts covered Avith cold lint. If it be one of the larger joints, the line of practice Avill vary according to other circmnstances than the mere dislocation. Thus, if it be in the upper extremity, the patient being healthy, and the soft parts not very extensively contused or torn, the bones may be replaced, cold irrigation assiduously applied, and antiphlogistic treatment pursued. If there be fr’acture conjoined Avith the dislocation, resection shoidd be practised, as Avas successfully done by Hey in several cases of injury of the elboAV of this description ; but if the soft parts be greatly injured as AA^eU, and especially if the blood-A^essels and nerves of the limb have suffered, amputation must be performed. In the loAver extremity, amputation is more fr’equently necessaiy ; in the knee, almost invariably so. Sir A. Cooper states that he knoAvs no accident that more imperatively demands amputation than compound dislocation of this joint. Yet there are exceptions to this rule ; thus. White had a case of compound dislocation of the knee- joint in a boy, nine years of age, at the Westminster Hospital, in Avhich he saved the limb by saAving off the condyles of the femur and reducing the bone. In the compound dislocations of the ankle and the astragalus, an attempt should generally be made to save the hmb, in the AA'ay that aauU be more specially pointed out Avhen Ave come to treat of these injuries. After recovery fr'om compound dislocation, the joint AviU often remain permanently stiffened; hence attention to position during the treatment is essentially required. In many cases, hoAvever, very good motion is ultimately obtained, though the stiffness may continue for some length of time. CoAiPLiCATloxs.—Fracture of the Shaft of one of the Long Bones with Dislocation of its Head increases considerably the difficulty of re- duction. In these circmnstances, it has been recommended to consolidate the fracture first, and then to attempt the reduction. But to do this is only to^ defer and increase the difficulties. At least seven or eight Aveeks must elapse before the fr-acturc AviU be sufficiently firmly united to bear the requisite trac- tion to reduce so old a dislocation ; and then there AviU be great chance of rupture of the callus, and there AviU certainly be extreme difficulty in the reduction. It therefore appears to me much safer, under all circumstances, to reduce the dislocation at once, and afterAvards to treat the fracture in the usual Avay. In reducing a dislocation complicated Avith fractiu’c of the shaft ot the displaced bone, the fracture must first be put up very firmly indeed, Avith Avooden splints completely encasing the limb. The patient must then be put fully under the influence of chloroform, Avhich is of the most essential sorA'ice in these cases ; and, Avhen the muscles are completely relaxed, extension and counter-extension being made in the usual Avay, the reduction may be H H 2