649 IIUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. of (lark or turbid serous fluid takes place iu the peritoueal cavity. As this cflusioii increases, dulness on percussion Avill manifest itself—usually first on the flanks, and then gradually extending forward until it may occupy a gTcat extent of surface in the abdomen. In the Tmtlmenl of this disease, we must be guided by the character of tho inflammation. If it be sthenic, and the patient young and robust, he may be- bled in the arm, but should certainly have leeches abundantly applied over the surface of the abdomen ; a pill, composed of two grains of calomel and one grain of opium, may then be administered eveiy sixth hour, or oftener if the patient be not influenced by the narcotic ; and rigid abstinence from food should be enforced, ice and barley-water alone being allowed. If the perito- nitis bo the result of a wounded intestine, it is safer to omit the calomel, using instead mercurials to the inside of the thighs, but giving opium freely. When the peritonitis occurs in an old or feeble subject, our principal trust must bo in the administration of opium and in free leeching of the abdomen, followed perhaps by a blister, which maybe dressed with mercurial ointment. In these cases, liowever, early support will be required, 'with perhaps the administration of wine or stimulants. The inflammatory extravasation will gradually bo absorbed under the influence of the calomel, aided by bhsters. INJUBIES OP THE PELVIC VISCERA. Bladder.— Rupture of the Bladder, from blows upon the abdomen, is not of very unfrequent occiUTence. It can scarcely happen when the organ is empty, as it then sinks down imder cover of the pelvic bones. But when the bladder is greatly distended, rising high above the pubes, and thinned propor- tionately to its distension, it may very readily be ruptured, even by very slight degrees of external violence, as by one man rolhng over another in a clrnuken scuffle, or by a person running against a post, or falling out of bed. The Effects of this iujiuy vary considerably, according to the part that has given way or been wounded. If the laceration have occurred iu those portions, of the viscus'that are invested by peritoneum, the lu-ine will at once escape into the pehlc and abdominal cavities, and speedily occasion death by intense in’itation and inflammation. I have, however, seen a case in which, even in these circiunstances, the patient survived ten days. Ifi on the other hand, that portion of the organ have been ruptured which is uncovered by the perito- neum, the mine may infiltrate into the areolar tissue betAveen this membrane and the abdominal waU, and, diffusing itself widely, produce destructiA’e sloughing of the tissues amongst which it spreads. In these cases life may be prolonged for some days, when the patient commonly sinks from the imtation and inflammation combined. An open Avoimd of the bladder is by no means so dangerous as a subcutaneous ruptiue. Many patients have recovered Avhose- fladders haAn been perforated and traA'ersed by bullets, the urine finding a free- exit through the apertmes, and consequently not tending to extravasate itself, mthrie relates several cases of this kind ; and Thomson saAv fourteen cases a er the battle of Waterloo, in a fair way of recovery. Thus, although we accident as of tho gravest character, yet it cannot be Lonsicloicd as being necessarily fatal.