472 SPECIAL niSLOCATIOiYS. small blisters may be applied over it. It is of gi-eat importance to prevent the Inibit of recurrence of the dislocation. This may usnaUy most conveniently be rfouJ itn'V ‘^ttachS fcactm-ed jaJr ^ Congenital Dislocation of one Condyle of the Lower Jaw is a re- indebter^rT? w ‘"'T’acquaintance with which we are chiefly coun^cnttp^' r{ condition there is a singular distortion of countenance, ihe osseous and muscular structures on the dislocated side are atrophied, and the teeth of the upper jaw project beyond those of the lower contrary to what occm-s in the accidental dislocation: the mouth can be closed’ speech is perfect, and there is no dribbling of saliva. Congenital dislocation or both condyles has not yet been observed. DISLOCATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—When we look at the flat character of the sterno-clavicular articulation and the very small and shallow surface in the acromion upon which the outer end of the clavicle is received, and reflect on the violence to^ which the shoulder is frequently subjected, we might at first imagine that dislocations of the clavicle would be amongst the most frequent forms of injmy in this region. But this is very far from being the case. They are, indeed, rarely met with in comparison to the frequency of fr’actures of this bone. This is owing to several causes : amongst these are the shortness and fii-mness of the ligaments by which the clavicle is attached to the sternum and aciomioii, and the fact that any force ajqilied to the bone is usually received in a line that con-esponds to its axis, thus causing it to be bent or broken rather than luxated. The mobility of the scapula, also, has a special tendency to jirevent dislocations of the outer end of the clavicle, the two bones easily moving together. Were it not for these circumstances, the bone would fr’equently be thrown off the small flat ai’ticular siu’face of the acromion. Dislocations of the clavicle can only be occasioned by v iolence applied to the shoulder in such a direction, as to drive the bone inwards towards the mesial line, at the same time that the sca2iula is fixed. Either the sternal or the acromial end of the clavicle may be dislocated, and the simultaneous displacement of both ends has been observed. 1. The Sternal End of the Clavicle may be luxated in a direction fonuarcls, laclziuards, or upwards, being throvii before, behind, or above the sternum. In the dislocation Forwards, the end of the bone can be felt in its new position, the point of the shoulder is ajDjiroximated to the mesial line, and the dejiressions above and below the clavicle are strongly defined. It is occasioned by blows upon the shoulder, by bending this part forcibly backwards, or by A’iolence applied to the elbow whilst the ann is raised from the side. In some cases it occurs spontaneously, as a secondary consequence of lateral ciu’vature or rotation of the upper dorsal vertebra;. This dislocation, which is amongst the most frequent to which the clavicle is subject, may readily be reduced by pushing the shoulder outwards and bending it backwards, while the elbow is brought in front of the mid-lateral