879. WARTS AND CORNS. DISEASES OF TISSUES. CHAPTER XXXVIL SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. The Tarioiis specific cutaneous affections, such as eczema, scabies, impetigo^ acne, lepra, psoriasis, &c., probably fall -within the province of the Surgeon, and are commonly treated by him in practice ; but, as the consideration of these diseases -would necessarily lead into the -whole subject of Dermatology,, the limits of this -R^ork -would not aUo-w me to discuss so extensive and special a branch of Surgery ; and I must therefore content myself with the considera- tion of some of those affections of the skin, which, as requiring manual assistance, may perhaps be more properly looked upon as within the scope- of the present Treatise. These diseases may be considered under the several heads of Diseases of the Appendages of the Skin, as of the cuticle and nails the Non-Mahgnant Ulcers of the Skin; and the Malignant Ulcers and Tumours of this tissue. We have already, in Chapter VI., considered the- ordinary non-malignant ulcers of the skin, and in Chapter XXXIV. some- of the simple tumours that occur in connection -with this tissue ; we shall here, therefore, only consider the Diseases of the Afpendarjes of the Stein, and the- MaR(jnant Ulcers and Tumours. DISEASES OP THE APPENDAGES OP THE SKIN. Wahts consist of elongated papillm, with strata of thickened and hardened cuticle, usually situated about the hands and face, and chiefly affecting young- people ; they appear in many cases to be simple overgrowths of the cutaneous structures, coming and going without any evident cause. In other cases they are more permanent, becoming hardened and dark in coloim, and continuing perhaps through life. ^ The Treatment of warts is usually sufficiently simple. As their vitality is low, they may be readily destroyed by the application of caustics or astringents ; among the most useful of these, I have found the concentrated acetic acid and the tincture of the sesquichloride of iron. Brodie recommends the solution of a drachm of arsenious acid in half an ounce of nitric acid. In some cases, they may be ligatured or snipped off with advantage. (.loRNS usually consist of small thickened masses of epidermis, accumulated on those points on which undue ft-iction or pressure has been exercised, in order to guard the subjacent cutis from injury. These epidermic masses are usuaUy