SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 152 llo^vever, is of little moment, the ha3mon’hage speedily eeasing on the apjdiea- tion of pressure, of a bandage, or of cold. Provided the incision have only to he canied tlu'ough the integiunental structures and fascia, in order to afford an outlet for the pus, there can be but little danger of hsemonhage from the accidental woimd of any blood-vessel of importance ; and, should bleeding occur, it will probably be of a venous chai-acter, and may bo aiTcsted by pressiu’e and position. But when the abscess is more deeply seated than this, lying under the superficial muscles, which it Avill then be necessary to penetrate, more serious consequences may ensue, and the incautious use of the knife may lead to the most perilous results. This is more particularly apt to occm- in deeply seated periosteal abscesses of the thigh and I have more than once known such profuse arterial hsemorrhage follow incisions made for the pm-pose of evacuating pus deeply lodged in the limb in these cases, as to necessitate the ligature of the femoral artery. In order to avoid this danger, Hilton has advised that abscesses so situated should be opened in the foUowng way. An incision is made through the integuments, and fascia so as to expose the muscle imder which the pus lies ; a director is. then pushed through the substance of the muscle into the cavity of the abscess,, and along the groove of this as a guide a slender pair of dressing-forceps is pushed: when it reaches the abscess the blades are opened up, the musculai- fibres sei3arated, and free exit given to the pus. After the opening has been made, a poultice or water-di’essing must be apphed. The ca\dty left eventually fills up either by the coalescence of its sides, or by granulating from below ; if it fill again Avith pus, a fresh incision, termed a “ counter-opening,” must be made in the most dependent part. No- thing is more dangerous than pent-up matter in imperfectly opened abscesses. It speedily decomposes and becomes offensive, gives rise to local irritation and inflammation, and predisposes to the occuiTence of erysipelas and pyaemia. In order to prevent these evil consequences, recoiu’se must be had to free openings in dependent situations, and the use of the drainage-tube. In the treatment of chronic and cold abscess, any one of these three plans may be employed for opening the sac. If it be small, an incision should be made into it at once. If the collection be considerable, we must Avait rmtil an opening has been rendered necessary by the tendency to impheation of the skin, or by injiu'ious pressure being exercised on important parts ; the pus should then be let out by the vahndar apertme recommended by Abernethy, the object being to limit the entry of air into the interior of the abscess, so as to lessen the chance of putrefaction of any pus that is left, and of consecutive inflammation of the cyst. The valvidar opening is made by drawing the skin covering the abscess avcU to one side, then passing the bistoury directly into the sac, and alloAAing as much of the pus to escape as will flow out by the collapse of the Avails of the abscess; before the matter has quite ceased to Aoaa, and conse- quently before any air can haA'e entered the sac, the skin should be alloAAcd to recover its natiu-al position, so that the aperture in it and in the cyst may no longer directly communicate. A piece of plaster, or ot lint soaked in co oc ion, should be placed upon the external wound, which will probably heal under this coA'ering in the course of a short time. When the cyst of the abscess las again filled somewhat, this process may be repeated; so that, less and less pus eing