VENEREAL BIREASEE. 68 fv portion of the cranium and of the clavicle for necrosis accompanying consti- tutional syphilis, had been treated in a military hospital wthout mercury. I have never seen or hoard of mercury producing necrosis in any bones, except those of the jaws, when given for other diseases than syphilis. No doubt diseases of the hones are especially apt to occur when the patient’s constitution has been broken down by any means ; and an improperly conducted mercurial coiu’se may have this result. They usually occur after the patient has passed thi-ough the whole coiu’se of the less severe syphilitic affections, such as those of the skin, mucous membrane, and throat. The aff’ections of the hones, however, may in some cases declare themselves at the same time with the affections of the skin and mucous membranes. They more commonly occur amongst the poorer classes, especially those who are exposed to atmospheric vicissitudes, and chiefly in strumous constitutions. The syphihtic affections are principally met Avith in those bones that are flat and compact, as the cranial, nasal, and maxiUary bones. In these, various forms of disease occm-. One of the most common is perhaps Chronic Ostitis, with hypertrophy and condensation of the osseous tissues, often to a very marked extent. This affection may occur in the bones of the skuU, but is also met with in some of the long bones, as the tibia and the ulna ; it is characterised by very severe pam, especially of a noctm-nal character, accom- panying the enlarged and thickened state of the bone. Syphilitic Necrosis chiefly ocem’s in the bones of the skuU and jaws, the alveolar processes of which may exfoliate ; the palatine proeess of the supe- rior maxillary bone, the spongy and the nasal bones, are also commonly destroyed by this morbid action ; but it is a remarkable fact that the palate- bones are not nearly so often affected as the nasal and spongy bones. In consequence of this destruction of bony tissue, the interior of the nose becomes chronically diseased, and the organ may fall in, or a eommunication may be estabhshed between the nose and the mouth through the hard palate. Syphilitic Caries, or ulceration of bone, presents different forms, whieh, ■according to Stanley, correspond to analogous ulcers and eruptions of the skin. Thus, there may be the simple ulcer of the bone, showing a rough, in-ec^idar, porous, and depressed surface ; the worm-eaten caries, consisting of smaU pits or excavations, studding the sm-face ; and the seryiyinous ox creepiny nicer, marked by imperfect attempts at repair, and the deposition of new bone in nodules or masses. The cranial bones are those that are most commonly .affected in this way ; and their disease may sometimes prove fatal by the diTitation set up by it in the brain or its membranes. The bones of the extremities, however, are not iinfrequently similarly affected. pecuhar dry caries of the cancellous striictm’e of the old svnhihtic cases. In both cases, which were very