WOUiVDS OF THE BRAIN AND ITS AIEMBRiiNES. 553 ■\Vhen a dei^rossed fracture of the skull is complicated with a Fracture or other Injury of the Spinal Column, it is sometimes difficult to determine how much of the symptoms may bo due to one accident, and what proj)ortion to the other. In such a case as this, howe'S'er, we should, I think, treat the depressed fr’acture in-espectively of the vertebral injury, thus giving the patient a chance of recovery, of prolongation of life, or, at least, of retimi of consciousness before death, A man Avas admitted under my care into the Hospital, vuth depressed fr-acture of the left parietal bone, and injury of the ccr\ ical spine, the precise nature of which could not be accurately determined. He Avas in a state of comjAlete coma and jraralysis. I trephined the skull and elevated the depressed portion of bone ; he recoA’ered his con- sciousness to a great degree, but died in a few days, ajrparently fr-om injury to the spine. On examination after death, we found a fracture of the fifth cerA'ical vertebra. INJURIES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE CRANIUM. irouxDS OF THE Brain AND ITS MEMBRANES are fr'equent in injuries of the head, and are among the most important compheations of these accidents. The extent of injury inflicted upon the cerebral substance has wide limits, fr'om slight laceration Avithout exposrue, to denudation of the brain, disintegra- tion, and escape of large portions of its substance. Causes.—Injury to the brain may be occasioned in various ways. The simplest form is that, perhaps, which is not unfrequently met Avith in unde- pressed fracture of the skuU, and sometimes happens without fr-acture, from simple concussion or commotion of the head ; laceration of the cerebral sub- stance occiuTing under the seat of injury, or more fr-equently at a distant or opposite point, by a kind of confrecoup. This laceration of the Irain hj contrecoip is by no means of unfrequent occiUTence. I have seen many striking instances of it, and haA’e found it to be one of the commonest causes of death in simple fracture of the skull. Laceration of the brain by contrecoup is attended by much extraA asation of blood ; and after death the brain-substance is found mixed iqi Avith coagula, and forming a soft, puljiy, bloody mass. In most in- stances that I haA e seen, the anterior lobes have been thus contused, lacerated, and disorganised. This accident may occiu without any fr-acture of the skull or external sign of serious injury, and usually results from falls upon the back or SI e of the head, often from an inconsiderable height, as when a person s ips su enly up in frosty Aveather and strikes his head on the pavement; the an erioi portions of the hemisj)heres of the brain, or the parts opposite to a stiuck, Avill then be foiuid in the condition just described. he brain and its membranes are often lacerated ly the shariJ spkuta of a cipressectfrcicture, Avhich may penetrate to a considerable depth in its substance Ana lastly, the injury may be occasioned by foreign bodies, such as bullets, < rsnig 01 lodging in the head; or by s/aSsfmfZjwimc/wres through the thinner portions of the skull, especially the orbital plate of the frontal bone. In this Piinctnrrtl tobacco-pipe, the point of a knife, or a scissor-blade, may puncture the anterior part of the brain. of th^nffiirvnit“^ Effects.-The symptoms and results of aaduikI or laceration c 7 greatly according to the age of the patient, the seat of injury.