774 TUMOURS. ol rapid growth, and occur usually in middle life. Melanotic sarcoma is one ot the most malignant of all forms of timiour. The secondary deposits occur m cTeiy organ and tissue in the body, and they may apparently lie propagated entirely by the Yaseular system, the lymphatic glands escaping any contamina- tion, or they may be distributed by both the vascular and the lymphatic systems. It may be broadly stated that if a melanotic sarcoma reach the size of a filbert secondary deposits have in aU probability ocemred, and no local treatment can cure the patient, although, by relieving him of one source of infection, it may retard death. Although showing this temble general malignancy, the local malignancy of melanotic sarcoma is not great. It may reach a large size ivithout ulcerating ; it is frequently distinctly encapsuled, and, if removed freely, often docs not return in the scar. The secondary tumom’s form in every part of the body ; constantly in the limgs and liver, almost constantly in the brain and spinal cord, spleen and kidneys, and subcutaneous tissue ; very often in the heart, intestines, medulla of bones, and lymphatic glands. Like the cells of the primary tumour, some of the secondary growths are found to be jugmented and some not. The diagnosis of melanotic sarcoma is made by the colour and rapidity of the growth. It must not be confounded vdth the simple j)igmented wart. This is always of slow growth, more or less firm, peduncu- lated and lobulated. It must be remembered, however, that melanotic sarcoma may start fr’om a Avart of this kind, or from a congenital mole. As to true melanotic cancer, that is to say, pigmented encephaloid, it is doubtful if such a growth exists, and if it do, it must be of extreme rarity. The Treatment of melanosis is the removal of the tumom’ as soon as it is diagnosed, unless secon- dary deposits can ah’eady be recognised. Psammoma is a rare form of tumom.’ found only in coimection vith the membranes of the brain. The chief characteristic of these growths is the presence of small concentric calcareous globules, the so-caUed “ brain-sand.” They are chiefly composed of pecuhar flattened cells. They give rise to no symptoms, except in infinitely rare cases. Sarcomatous Blood-cysts, or Hsematomata.-—Tumours have been fr-e- quently described under the name of “blood-cysts,” of which the most characteristic feature was the presence of a large collection of fluid or partly coagulated blood in a cyst, the walls of which were imperfectly defined. If the blood were evacuated by pimcture or incision, free hjemorrhage, difficult to control, or, at least, speedy re-accumulation of the fluid, was the only result. If seated on a limb, free excision of the cyst and its contents, or amputation, Avas justly looked upon as the only mode of treatment holding out any prospect of success. The nature of these tumoius was not AveU understood ; it has, however, recently been shown that in all probability they are, in the great majority of cases, soft sarcomata, broken doAAm by haemorrhage into their structure. The walls of these cysts are formed of a thin layer of sarcoma tissue, either of the round or spindle-ceUed variety. A vei’y interesting case of this kind came under my care in University College Hospital in 1874. A healthy man, aged 40, had noticed, for about nine months, a soft sAA'eUing on the upper and outer part of the leg, AAffiich he attributed to a strain. It fluctuated distinctly ; and AAffien I first saAV it, a dark red fluid was oozing from tAvo dis- coloured points. It Avas altogether about three inches in diameter and of a