129 LOCAL TREATMENT. ture, and on low diet; in fact, the more complete the abstinence in this respect, the more rapidly do therapeutic agents act and the febrile symptoms cease. Looai< TrbatjMEXT.—This is of the utmost importance, as it directly in- fluences the tissues and vessels that are deranged in action. It consists of means of the most varied and opposite characters. Heat and cold ; iced water and hot fomentations ; astringents and sedatives—are all employed, and all vdth success, but each only in certain stages and forms of the disease ; and the art in conducting the local treatment of inflammation consists in adapting the various means at our disposal to the particular condition of the case before us. Local Blood-letting is the most efiicient means we possess in directly lessening vascidar action in a part, as by it we take the blood directly from the inflamed and tingid vessels. It may be used in addition to, though it is now veiy commonly employed in in’eference to, general blood-letting, especially if the inflammation be not severe, or if it occur at either of the extremes of life, in women, and in persons generally of feeble power. Blood may be taken locally hj pumtures, scarifications, or incisions, or by Jeeching or cupping. Punctures and mmsw7is can oidy be practised in inflammation of the cuta- neous and exposed mucous surfaces, due attention being paid to subjacent j)arts of importance. They constitute a very efiicient means of reheving the part, as not only is blood removed, but au exit is afibrded for effused matters ; tension is consequently materially lessened, and the tendency to sloughing and other e-^-il after-efiects perhaps prevented. The removal of the tension of inflamed parts is not only of the gveatest advantage locally, but is of considerable service to the system at large by lessening the pain and general ii-ritation, that are always occasioned by it. The punctures should be made with a fine lancet, m parallel rows over the inflamed surface, and should not exceed a quarter of au inch m depth. The incisions must always be made in the axis of the limb, and s ould be so amiiged as to afford the greatest possible relief to the tension. eu length and their depth must vaiy according to the seat of the inflam- matioii. Thus m the inflamed conjunctiva they must of course be very hmited, whilst in phlegmonous inflammation of a limb they may be of much gi-eater extent and depth. Care must be taken as far as possible not to wound super- cia ar encs 01 l ems. A modification of puncture is sometimes practised openmg le yems in the neighbourhood of the inflamed part at several ^ 1 inflammation of the testis the scrotal A’eins may bo bp ^\^i^ v antage. The bleeding from punctures and incisions should be encouraged by warn fomentations. n nsefully applied to the neighbourhood of inflamed parts but should not be put upon the inflamed siirfece itself, as their bitefhritate lar.^r.T S’tiiatioiis in ivhich leeches should not be placed, as over a laig subcutaneous or in regions where there is much lareolm tTssm as ahr iest troublesome liEemoiTliage or ecchymosis occur So raged liy warm tioulfiViim ' p ° tom a leech-bite nhoulcl be eiicon- “■ for some time after the animal has K