LOCAL TREATMENT OF HOSPITAL GANCRENE. 685 l)cfore the application of the caustic, the soft pulpy slough should be scraped off with a spatula. After the cauterisation a strip of lint, soaked in a strong solution of the watery extract of opium, should be laid around the margin of the ulcer, so as to cover the surrounding areola ; and the separation of the sloughs must be encouraged by the continued application of charcoal, yeast, or cfdorinated poultices. In many cases iodoform will be found preferable to caustics or the cautery. It gives little or no pain when dusted over the sore, arrests the progress of the sloughing action, and clears away the sloughs them- selves in a most remarkable manner. lYhen the sloughs have separated, and the surface of the sore has cleaned, it may be dressed with a lotion composed of one gTain of the sulphate of copper and five of the watery extract of opimn to an ounce of Avatcr. The granulations, Avhich are very luxuriant and vascular, Avill skin oA’er AAuth great rapidity ; and the cicatrix, like that of an ordinary biun, Avill contract A'ery firmly. Should arterial Immorrliage occur, it may be arrested by the application of a ligature to the bleeding point; but if this do not hold, as Avill probably be the case from the softened state of the tissues, the perchloride of iron or the actual cautery must be applied; or the limb must be removed if all other means fail. In some cases, though the sloughing action is checked at one part of the smface, it has a tendency to spread at another. When this is the case, it may be necessaiy to apply the caustic or cautery repeatedly. In other instances, the sloughing action cannot be stopped, but opens large arteiles, and destroys the greater part of the soft tissues of a limb ; and then it may be a question whether amputation should be performed during the spread of the disease, or the patient left to die of hEemorrhage or exhaustion. Such a contingency is not of common occurrence; yet it may happen and the operation be successful, as appears from the foUoAsdng case, though there would necessarily be great danger of a recurrence of the disease in the stump. The AAufe of a butcher applied at the Hospital, with a slight wound of the forearm, inflicted by a fold hook. It was dressed in the ordinary way, but in the course of a few days she returned Avith extensive sloughing phagedmna of the part. She was imme- diately admitted, and the disease Avas arrested by the enei’getic employment of the local treatment above described ; not, however, until after considerable destruction of the tissues on the inside of the forearm had taken place. She left the Hospital before the Avoimd was completely cicatrised, and retiu’iied in a few days Avith a fresh attack of the disease, more extensive and seinre than the first, AA^hich could not be permanently stopped, either by the actual cautery or by nitric acid. The radial artery Avas opened and required ligature, and the AAhole of the soft parts, from the AA'rist to the elbowq Avere totally dis- organised, and the bones exposed. There Avas noAv very seA'ere constitutional ]mtation, and the case Avas evidently fast hastening to a fatal termination. In these circumstances I amputated the arm midAvay betAveen the shoulder and elbow; and, notAvithstanding that the local disease Avas progressing at the ime of the operation, and that great constitutional disturbance existed the patient havmg a pulse of KO to 170, at which it continued for more than a ■■ccove.7; to which the free administratioii of 1 nine and stimulants gi’catly contributed.