TRAUMATIC AXILLARY ANEURISM. 325 the subcutaneous accumulation of a few oimces or pounds of blood. Tins undoubtedly is the proper surgical principle on which to act in these cases. Its adoption has been strongly urged by Guthrie, and its advantage has been demonstrated by the success attending it in several cases in which it has been adopted by Paget, Syme, and others. The operation consists in compressing the subclavian'above the clavicle, either by the direct pressui-e of the finger, or, as was done by Syme in his case, by previously making an incision o\'er it, through which it could be more readily commanded ; then laying the tumour open by a free incision through the anterior fold of the axilla and the pectoral muscles, turning out the coagula, and seeking for and ligaturing the artery at both ends ; for it must be remembered, that the distal extremity of the tom vessel 'will probably bleed freely, owing to the open anastomoses round the shoulder. Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurisms of the Axillary Artery are not imcommonly of slow formation, existing for several months or years before they require operation, although resulting from punctured wound of the armpit. In chronic cases of this kind, the aneurism is necessarily provided with a finn and distinct sac, and approaches closely in its characters to the pathological, form of the disease. The Treatment here cannot be conducted on the principles that guide us in the management of a wound, or of a diffused aneiu’ism of recent occurrence of this artery ; for not only is the circumscribed aneurism provided with a sac, but the vessel at the point injured will very probably be found to have undergone changes that render it little able to bear the appbeation of the ligature. It vdll be softened, thickened, and lacerable, ■with perhaps a ■wide funnel-shaped apertiue leading into the sac, which ■will be closely incorporated with the neighbouring parts. But, indeed, the treatment of this form of circumscribed traumatic aneurism by the bgatiue of the artery on the proximal side of the sac, has been found to be attended ■with remarkable suc- cess. In eight recorded cases in which this operation has been performed, not one fatal result has been noted. In all, the aneiuism arose from stabs or gun- shot womids, and had existed for various periods, between two weeks and four yeai’s. In foiu of the cases the artery was ligatm’ed above, and in four below the clavicle ; and in one case of each category there was suppiuation of the sac. The particular point at which the artery should be ligatiued must depend upon the condition of the tumour. If this be of large size, or arise fi’om the upper part of the axillary artery above or immediately below the pectoralis mipor muscle, there is no choice but to deligate the vessel above the clavicle. Should, however, the principal increase in the tumour take place in a direction downwards and forwards under the great pectoral muscle, the portion of the artery immediately below the clavicle appearing to be ft-ee from disease, the question would arise as to whether this part might not be selected for the ap- plication of the ligatiuc ; and as the results of both operations have hitherto been equally favoiuable, this must rather be determined by the peculiarities iu each case than on more general grounds. Most Surgeons, I think, would how- ever prefer ligaturing the artery above the clavicle, as being a simpler proceeding than tying it below that bone ; which, moreover, has the disadvantage of bring^ o to