^5S SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. coagiila. IMorc conmionly it occiu’s after the opening of the abscess, in conse- quence probably of the Avail having lost the support of the contained pns, Avhen; the delicate vessels in the soft j)lastic and v'eiy vascular hbiing give way, and the cavity speedily fills VAoth blood. In these cases the htemorrhage may always- be aiTestcd by laying the cavity of the abscess freely open, timiing ont the- coagida, stuffing it with strips of lint, and applying pressure with a bandage. It nsnally, however, ceases of itself as soon as the cavity has been freely opened np and the interior exposed to cold air. HmmoiThage from Ulceration extending Mo a neiglibouring Vein, is neces- sarily far more serious. It has nsnally happened fi’om slonghy abscesses fomed on the side of the neck or under the angle of the jaw, as a consequence of scarlatina in strimions and imhealthy individuals, opening np the inteinal jngnlar vein. But it may arise, independently of any specific inflammation, in cachectic patients. In these distressing cases, the only treatment that can be adopted is, to ping the cavity of the abscess VAith hnt soaked in a solntion of the perchloride of iron, and supported by bandage or plasters. In this way the fatal event may be for a time perhaps delayed ; bnt it is inevitable ulti- mately, the blood bnrsting forth by the sides of the pings as these become loosened, or as the slonghing action opens np the vein more widely. The effect of the bleeding is greatly aggi-avated by the depressed state of the system, laboining under the coirjoined influences of a large infiltrated and slonghy wonnd and a specific poison. If the hmmon’hage arise from the Ulceration of a large Artery, the case necessarily becomes one of extreme nrgency. I have known this condition to occur in the neck and in the thigh; in the neck fi'om slonghy scarlatinal abscess implicating the carotid ; in the thigh, fi-om the extension of nlcerative action fi'om abscess and sinnses to the deep femoral. When this imtoward complication of abscess occiu-s in the neck, the hcemoiThage is nsnally so sudden and so profuse that the Surgeon has not time to tie the carotid before fife is extinguished. In the thigh the case is not so urgent. Warnings by repeated small htemorrhages may have enabled the Siu’geon to adopt means to- restrain the bleeding; and, in the case to which I allude, that of a young man, the femoral artery was tied successfully. In these cases, it is worse than useless to trust to secondary means for the arrest of the bleeding. When practicable, the artery should be compressed, the cavdty freely opened np, and the bleeding- vessel sought for and tied. If it cannot be found, the main trunk must be lio-atm-ed • and for obvious reasons this is the only course that can be pursued' in the neck. Sinus and Fistuta.—After an abscess has been opened, its cavity may not fill up completely, but, contracting into a narrow suppm-ating track, may form- a canal without disposition to close, and fr-om which a small quantity of pus- constantly exudes, thus constituting a Sinus or Fistula. The Cemses of this non-closure of the cyst of an abscess may be referred to- the following heads 1. The presence of a foreign body, as a piece of^dead bone at the bottom ; 2. The passage of irritating secretions,^ as urine, fa3ccs, saliva, &c., through the abscess ; and 3. The contraction of neighbouring muscles ; as when the abscess is in the neighbourhood of the sphincter ani, and as occasion- ally happens in abscesses about tlic limbs.