14 OEXERAL REMARKS OX ORERATIOXS. absence, the ease being an nrgent one, the Surgeon must stand in loco parentis and take all responsibility npon himself. ’ Ihese points then having been determined, the patient should, if possible, be Piepaieclfoi the Ojperahon. In a great number of cases reejuiring operation, as in strangulated heinia, bad compound fracture, &c., no time is allowed for preparation, but the Singeon must at once sulmiit the patient to the knife, whatever the state of his constitution may be. But in the more chronic cases' time is given for improwng the constitution. This preparation must not consist in any routine system of purging and star^dng, which is ill calculated to support the constitution against the call that ivill be made upon its powers ; nor, on the other hand, in blindly adopting a tonic or stimulating regimen,' which may produce fever, and ii-ritate the constitution ; but in adapting our means to the condition of the patient and the nature of the operation'to be performed. The tendency to erysipelas, pyaimia, and low and diffuse inflam- mations generally, is materially lessened by supporting the patient’s strength, by means of a nutritious diet, previously to the performance of the operation. Indeed, in many of the more severe injimies and surgical diseases, it is only by the use of a nutritious diet, and by the administration of tonics, quinine, or iron, and stimnlants, often in large quantities, that the patient can be brought into a condition to bear the shock and consequent depression of the operation. This is more particularly the case with hospital patients of bad constitution, who have met uith serious accidents, attended by much suppuration and irritafrh'c fever. In the more chronic cases, the time should be seized for the operation when the temperature of the body is not too high, the secretions are free, the tongue clean, and the action of the skin and kidneys in a healthy state ; and, above all, the mind shordd be kept tranquil and hopeful, being allowed to dwell as little as possible upon the impending e'S'ent. In many operations, as those on the rectum and urinary organs, or in those of a plastic character, special modes of preparation are required, Avhich unll be discussed when we come to treat of the operations in detail. The Immediaie Preparations for the operation shoxdd ahvays be super- intended by the Surgeon himself. He must see that the table is solid, and of a convenient height, well coA’ered vdth blankets, and iwovided Avith pillows ; and that the light of the room is good. There must be a sufficient supply of sponges and of basins, AAith hot and cold Avater ; and, if the operation be likely to be attended by much htemorrhage, a tray filled AAuth sand or saAV-dust shoidd be proA'ided, in order to catch the blood. The Surgeon must then look over his instruments, comparing them, if the operation be complicated, AA'ith a list preA'iously made out ; he must see that they arc aiTanged in the order in AA'hich they are AA'anted, and properly coA'ered Avith a tOAvel. Much of the successful performance of an operation depends on the attention and steadiness of the assistants. Of these there should be enough, but not too many. In all capital oj)crations three or four Avill be required ; one tor the administration ot the anoBsthetic, another to command the artery, a third immediately to assist the Siu’geon, and the fourth to hand sponges, instruments, &c. The duties of the assistants should be performed in silence, and each man must carctully attend to his OAvn business, and not neglect this, as is too often done, in his anxiety to crane oA'er and see Avhat the Surgeon is about. There should be no mine-