471 dislocations of the lower jaw. dribbliuo- of the saliva over the lower lip ; the chin is lengthened, and &e lo\m- line of teeth advanced about half an inch beyond those of the upper ]aw; tne cheeks are flattened, and there is a depression in front of the meatus auditoiius externus. There is also au oblong prominence in the temporal fossa between tne eye and the ear. If the dislocation be left unreduced, the patient slowly reo-ains some power of movement over the jaw ; he gi-adually approximates the lips, and, after a length of time, may even be enabled to bring the hues of teeth into apposition, especially posteriorly. In the Unilateral dislocation, ivliere one condyle only is displaced, the axis of the lower jaw is directed towards the opposite side to that on which the dis- placement exists ; and the general signs ai-e the same, but in a less mai-kcd dem-ce, as those which arc met noth when both sides are dislocated, ihe hoUow before the meatus on the injured side is, however, well marked, and serves to point out the seat and natm-e of the displacement, the diagnosis of Avhich is not ahvays readily made ; indeed, R. W. Smith states that he has seen attempts at reduction applied to the uninjiu-ed side. Sir A. Cooper has described a Subluxation of the jaw, most frequently met u'ith in yoiuig and delicate u^omen, in which, in consequence of the relaxation of the ligaments, the head of the bone appears to slip forwards upon the emiuentia articularis, vReiiever the mouth is opened at all mdely,^ as in gaping, laughing, &c. It may usually be ascertained by telling the patient to put out the tongue. The bone hitches, as it were, and prevents the mouth from being shut at once. Most commonly, the natiu’al efforts of the patient are sufficient to retinm the head of the bone into the glenoid cavity with a cracking noise or ca’Cii a loud snap. The Reduction of a dislocated jaAV is easily effected; it being only necessary to push the angle of the bone downwards and backwards, so as to disentangle the coronoid process from under the zygomatic arch, at the same time that the chin is raised by the Surgeon’s fingers, in order that the temporal and pterygoid muscles may draw the head of the bone into its proper position. The reduction is best effected by the Siu’geon standing before the patient and •applying his thumbs, well protected by a thick napkin, to. the molar teeth on each side, and thus depressing the angle of the jaw forcibly, at the same time that he raises the chin by means of his fingers spread out and placed underneath it. The bone is then returned into its place with so forcible a snap that the thumbs may be severely bitten unless care be taken, or they be well protected. 'When one condyle only is luxated, the efforts at reduction should be applied to the injm'Cd side only. After the reduction, the four-tailed bandage should be applied, as in cases of ftactiire of the jaw ; and for several days the patient must not be allowed to talk, or to eat any solid food, lest the displacement rctm-n, Avhich it always has a great tendency to do. Yeiy old dislocations of this bone may be reduced by the process just uoav described. Thus, Stromeyer replaced one at the end of thirty-five, Donovan one at the end of ninety-eight days, and Pollock one at the end of four months. In the cases of suhluxaiion, attention should be paid to the state of the general health. Tonics, more particularly iron, should be administered ; good diet, the cold bath, and open-air exercise enjoined. If, as frequently happens, there be some tenderness about the temporo-maxillary articulation, a series of