CAUSES OF PY.EMIA. CHAPTER XXXIII. PYAEMIA. The term Pyaemia is applied to a group of pathological phenomena, which, arising in somewhat similar conditions, and running for the most part similar courses, were until recently considered to constitute a single well-defined attection dependent, as was supposed, upon the admixture of pus with the blood ; hence the name given to it. This disease (for it will be found con- venient, though not strictly correct, to look upon the members of this group as constituting but one aftection) is closely allied in cause and in character to some of the lowest and worst forms of erysipelas and diffuse infiammation, with which indeed it is frequently associated, and to which it presents great similarity in its causes, symptoms, and effects. Causes.*—Like erysipelas, pyaemia commonly occms at those seasons of the year, and under those atmospheric conditions, in which diseases of a low type are prevalent. There is no more common or certain cause of its production than the overcrowding of patients suffering from suppurating wounds in hos- pitals ; and it is in unhealthy and cachectic constitutions that it usually manifests itself. It is more common in adults and elderly people than in children ; but, though it is least frequently met with during the earher periods of fife, it may make its appearance at any age. Very young children and even infants may be attacked by it. Pycemia is a very common cause of death after operations and severe injuries, especially in hospitals that are situated in large towns, or that, however well situated, are overcroAvded. It is disposed to by all conditions of hfe, either before or after operations or injuries, that tend to impair the health, to lower the strength, and to induce an mihealthy state of the blood, such as constant want of fresh air, overcrowding in working or in sleeping apartments, and insufficient or inqjroper nourishment. Of all these causes, overcrowding is undoubtedly the most frequent and the most fatal; more particularly is over- crowding of patients injurious, if there be many suppurating wounds under the same loof. That pymmia is the result of the faulty hygienic conditions just a hided to, viz., AA'ant of pure air, overcrowding, and insufficient and unwhole- some diet, is evident from the fact of its being rife and most destructive where those causes of disease prevail, as amongst the poorer classes of all large and t ensely peopled tovuis ; while in the pm-er air of country districts, or in pmate practice amongst the wealthier classes, it is rarely met with. It is one 0 t ose causes of death after operations that might and ought to be prevented; anc w erever it is frequent, we may be sure either that the constitutions of tne patient are peculiarly deteriorated, or else that the hygienic conditions to See also aiaptcrs I. and II., and “ Ilosi.ttnli.sm and the Causes of Death after Oiieration.” Longmans, 1874.