12 GENERAL BEMAEKS ON OPERATIONS. little or no blood whilst the patient was in a state of nncesthesia. In these circnmstances, hajmorrhage is of far less moment, and lees freqncntly fatal, than Mheu it occurs at a later period, m consequence of some morbid condition of the wound or system, and usually in association with an asthenic state, by which the proper formation of plastic matter is interfered Avith. Gamjremx^ not a common cause of death after operations, except in the phagedtemc form in militery practice in time of wai-. When it occurs in cn-il hospital practice, it is the result, in most cases, of faulty but prevent- able hygienic conditions, and its frequency in any institution is the direct measure of, and of itself a conclusive proof of; neglected or defective sanitary arrangements. In the local form it may, however, occiu- without being the result of want of hygienic precautions, but from pm-ely local conditions, as in a limb fr’om excessive traiunatic violence, or in a strangulated hernia in conse- quence of excessive strangulation of the gut before operation. Tetanus but rarely occasions death after operations in this coimtry. When it does occiu', it is more fr-equently after the lesser than after the gi-eater opera- tions that it developes itself. Internal Inflammations of an acute and active character may carry off the jiatient after an operation in two ways. Inflammation of this kind may have existed antecedently to the operation, being the disease for which it is per- formed ; and, being luichecked by the ojieration, may continue its course and destroy life. Thus, when a child dies after tracheotomy for croiqi, death is not in general occasioned by the operation, but by the extension into the lungs of the disease for which it has been performed. Or the inflammation may be the necessary and direct consequence of the operation ; as when peritonitis occurs after the operation for strangulated hernia, or arachnitis after the skull has been trephined. But it is not by the action of any of these direct results that an operation usually proves fatal. In the gxeat majority of instances, death is occasioned in a more indirect manner by the development of pyeemic or eiy- sipelatous inflammations, to which a neglect of hygienic laws acts as a jDOwerfol predisposing cause. Septic disease, in one or other of its forms, is certainly the most frequent cause of death after operations, more particularly in large tomis. It is especially and directly predisposed to by the neglect of hygienic laws by the jDatient previously to the operation, and by the unfa'S'Oiu’able sanitary conditions by which he may be siuTounded after its performance. Closely allied to pyiBmia and septicaemia, frequently co-existing ndth them, having the same pre- disposing causes, and associated ndth febrile disturbance of an asthenic type, are the various loiv and diffuse inflammations, whether assumuig the form of ery- sipelas, of phlebitis, or of inflammation of the absorbents, which are the di’ead of siu’geons and the scourge of hospitals. It is to pyasmia, and to these vai-ious allied erysipelatous and low inflammations, nith their attendant asthenic con-' stitutional disturbance, that at least three-fourths of the deaths after operations are due. It is in the production of these diseases that an impure blood, loaded with efiete materials retained through habitual disregard of the ordinary rules of health, or through defective elimination by the kidneys and skin, acts as a i:)otent predisposing cause, requiring but some injury or womid to call into activity a most dangerous amount of local infliimmation and of constitutional