410 SPECIAL Eli AG TUBES. end. This fracture is comparatively rare in children, but is frequent in adults. The signs of this injury are by no means very distinct, though much light has been thrown upon them by the labours of R. W. Smith. There is loss of motion in the shoulder, with some swelling and considerable pain, together with some deformity ; an irregularity, produced by the upper end of the lower fr’agment, can be felt towards the inner side of the joint; crepitus is easily produced ; and there is, on measurement from the acromion to the olecranon, shortening to the extent of about one-third of an inch. When this fr’actime is impacted, the upper fragment penetrates the lower one. In consequence of this, the axis of the hmnerus is directed somewhat inwards towards the coracoid process ; here also some irregular osseous swelling maybe detected. The head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid cavity, but is not in the axis of the limb, the elbow projecting shghtly fr-om the side, the#e being ■at the same time a hollow some little distance under the acromion. There is •consequently more deformity about the joint in the impacted than in the simple intracapsular fr’actm’e, with the same impairment of motion, but only slight crepitus on firmly grasping the shoulder and rotating the elbow. In fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus, the portion of bone broken off is truly a foreign body'in the joint, and, being unconnected with any ligamentous structure, may perish, and thus give rise to destruction of the articulation. When this does not take place, it is probable that impaction of the fr’agment has occurred, and that thus its life is maiutained; or it may happen, as E. W. Smith supposes, that its vitahty is occasionally preserved in consequence of some partial union being kept up between it and the rest of the bone by untorn shreds of capsule. In either case, the principal reparative efforts are made by the lower fragment, which deposits callus abundantly. Treatment.—As there is often much swelling from contusion in these cases, evaporating lotions should be had recoimse to for a few days. A pad may then be j)laced in the axilla, and a leather or gutta-percha cap fitted to the shoulder and upper arm, the limb having previously been bandaged. The hand must be supported in a shng, and the elbow fixed to the side. In examining and reducing these intracapsular fractures, no violence should be employed, lest the impaction of the fragment be disturbed, or portions of untom capsule, on which the ultimate osseous repair of the injury is dependent, be broken through. Zjxtracapsular Fracture of the i^eck of the HEumerus.—In this injiuy, the bone is broken through the surgical neck, or that portion which is below the tubercles, but above the insertions of the pectoialis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major, and deltoid muscles. This accident is most frequent in adults, but it may occur in childi’en as well, the separation taking place through the lino of junction between the epiphysis and the shaft of the bone. In this fracture there is double displacement; the head of the bone and upper frag- ment are mtated outwards and abducted by the muscles inserted into the gicat tubercle, whilst the shaft i’s drawn upwards and imvards and forwards under the coracoid process, by the muscles going fr’om the trunk to the arm, and by the flexors of the limb. _ ., . . The Signs of this fracture are sufficiently obvious. The glenoid cauty is