4 GENERAL REA[ARKS ON OPERATIONS. must, as far as possible, be placed in those hygienic conditions which are most faA oni able to recovery ; the best time for the performance of the operation must be seized ; and, after its completion, the general health must be attended to in such a Avay as shall best cany the patient through the difficulties he has to encounter, and any sequelfe or complications that arise must be subjected to appropriate treatment. These, as well as the simple perfonnance of the opera- tion, are the duties of the Sm'geon ; and on the manner in which they are per- foiToed, as much as, or even perhaps more than, on the mere manual dexterity displayed in the operation itself, AviU the fate of the patient depend. It is well known that the result of operations differs much in the practice of different Sm-geons of acknowledged dexterity ; and this variation in the proportionate number of recoveries cannot be accounted for by any difference in the degree of manual skill displayed in the operation itself, but must rather be sought in the greater attention that is paid by some Surgeons to the constitutional treat- ment of their patients before and after operation, and to their more perfect acquaintance mth those general laAvs that influence the success of aU the opera- tions of Siu’gery. Indeed, success in Operative Sm-geiy mainly depends on two conditions ; 1. The selection of proper cases ; that is to say, of cases in which alone an operation will probably be followed by a successful result ; and 2, The a'\'oidance or the combating of those deleterious influences, hygienic and others, to Avhich a patient may be exqDOsed after an operation, and which may directly mar its success. Two requisites are thus essentially needed to constitute a successful operator. The first is, the possession of that mechanical skill that is required for the safey efficient, and speedy performance of an operation ; the second, of at least equal importance, is the scientific knowledge requisite to determine the cases in which operation has become necessary, in which it may be practised with a reasonable prospect of benefit and success, and to decide on the means to be adopted to place the patient in the most fa^-ourable circumstances for recovery. The practice of operating in notoriously hopeless cases nfith the view of giving the patient what is called “ a last chance ” is much to be deprecated, and should never be followed. It is by operating in such circumstances, especially in cancerous diseases, that much discredit has resulted to Surgery ;■ for in a great niunber of instances the patient’s death is hastened by the pro- cedure, rrffiich, instead of giving him a last chance, only causes him to be des- patched sooner than would otheiUAUse har’e happened. It may truly be said that a great siu’gical operation, in its conception, its performance, and its com- pletion, tests the Surgeon’s medical knowledge as much and in as varied a manner as it taxes his manual skill; and that, taken as a Avhole, it is the- highest development of the medical art. CONDITIONS INFLUENCINO THE SUCCESS OF OPERATIONS. The circimrstances that mainly influence the result of an operation, so far as the recovery of the patient is concerned, may be arranged under three heads : 1 d’hose that are connected with the State, of the Patiwfs General. Health before and at the time of its performance ; 2. The Hmjiemc Comhttons by which he is sm-rounded after it is done ; and 3. The Special Dangers connected -with the operation itself.