561 TREPHINING FOR EXTRAVASATION. The Treatment of extravasation of blood majbe conducted on two principles, either by means of general and local antiphlogistic measm-es,. ha-^ing for their object the an-est of fmther hasmorrhage, the promotion of absorption, and the subdual of inflammatory action ; or else by the application of the treiAine, with the "view of allowng the escape of the eifused blood. The line of treatment to be adopted should, I think, have reference to the character of the symptoms. When these indicate cerebral extravasation, trephining can be of little service, and we must be content with general anti- inflammatory measiu'es; but when the extravasation seems to be meningeal, then an attempt may be successfully made to evacuate the extravasated blood. Although Trephining in cases of extravasation was formerly much in vogue, it is seldom had recourse to by modern Surgeons, and is only proper in the meningeal form of extravasation. It is very true that, if it can be ascertained without doubt that the extravasation is not only meningeal, but that it is so situated that the blood may be removed through the trephine-aperture, and if there be no other serious injiuy to the brain or skuU, the operation should at once be performed. And doubtless cases occasionally happen in which, from the situation of the blow, and perhaps the presence of a capillary fissure over the course of the middle meningeal artery, the gradual supervention of signs of compression after an mterval of consciousness, and the occurrence of hemiplegia on the side opposite to that which has been struck, the Surgeon is warranted in making an aperture in the skull at the seat of injury, in order to remove the blood that has been pom-ed out, and to‘arrest its further effusion. But the instances in which this assemblage of symptoms exist, with sufficient pre- cision to justify an operation, are excessively rare. Out of many hundred cases of serious and fatal injmy of the head that have been admitted into University College Hospital dining the last twenty-eight years, in four cases oidy, I believe, has it been found advisable to have recoinse to trephining for the removal of extravasated blood. In three of these cases death speedily ensued, the coma being unrelieved by the operation. In the fointh case, recoveiy took place. The successful case to which I refer was that of a man admitted comatose, three days after receiving an injury of the head by a faU from a cab. There were no serious symptoms for some hours after the accident; bfit then stupor padually came on, amounting at last to complete coma. On examina- tion, a bruise of the scalp was found on the left temple : through this I made an incision, and, finding a starred fracture over the sinus of the middle menin- geal arteiy, trephined the bone, when a large coagulum was found lying upon ^e dura mater, and, on remoHng this, fluid arterial blood freely welled up. le coma was relieved, and the patient made a good recovery. In fact, in all cases of this kind where there has been a fall or blow on the head, even thouo-h here may be no external marks of violence, the Siugeon should cut down on the skull, and examine it for fracture-to trephine if necessary. If there be no Ea: inST 7" r ■" fhpfi ^"cision is the only means of diaonosis and he first step towards savi'ng life. But it must be boi4 in mind SoweTer to find niay not be met ivith where the Siugeon expects VOL. I. circumstances, it is better not to prosecute the search by 0 o