582 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. sucli recovery is more likely to ensue if tlie primary and direct symptoms Lave been scs'ere, and have at or almost immediately after the occiUTencc of the accident attained to their lull intensity. In tliese eases, under projoer treat- ment the severity of the symptoms gradually subsides, and, week by week, the patient feels himself stronger and better, until, usually in from three to si.v months at the utmost, all traces of the injury have disappeared. Incomplete or partial recovery is not nnfrecpient in cases of severe and direct injury of the spine. The patient slowly recovers up to a certain point and then remains stationary, with some impairment of innervation in the shape of partial paralysis of sensation or of motion, or both, usually in the lower limbs. 'J’hc intellectual faculties or the organs of sense are more or less distiu-bcd, weakened, or irritated, the constitution is shattered, and the patient presents a prema- turely Avorn and aged look. In such cases structm-al lesion of some kind, in the membranes, if not in the cord, has taken place, Avhich necessarily must prevent complete recovery. When, therefore, we find a patient who, after the receipt of a severe injury of the spine by Avhich the cord has been concussed, presents the primaiy and immediate symptoms of that condition, we may entertain a favourable opinion of his future condition, provided there be a progressive amelioration of his symptoms, and no evidence of the development of any inflammation, acute or chronic, of the membranes of the cord. But our opinion as to his idtimate recovery must necessarily be very uutavoiu-able if the progress of amendment cease after some Aveeks or months, leaving a state of impaired innervation ; the more so if^ subsequently to the primary and immediate effect of the injmy, symptoms of meningo-myelitis haA'e declared themselves. In such circum- stances partial restoration to health may be looked for, but complete recovery is scarcely possible. When a person has received a concussion of the spinal cord from a jar or shake of the body, Avithont any direct blow on the back, or perhaps on any other part of the body, and the symptoms have progressively developed them- selves, the prognosis Avill always be very unfavom-able ; for this reason, that, as the injmy is not sufficient of itself to produce a direct and immediate lesion of the cord, any symptoms that subsequently appear must be the residt of structural changes in it consequent on its inflammation ; and these secondary strnctural changes, being incmable, must to a greater or less degree, but pei- manently, injmiously influence its action. For the same reason, the occinrence of a lengthened interval, a period of several weeks for instance, between the infliction of the injury and the development of the spinal symptoms, is pecir- harly unfavoinable. In forming an opinion as to the patient’s probable futine state, it is of far less importance to look to the immediate or early seA'crity of the symptoms than to their progressive and insidious development. The time that the symptoms have lasted is necessarily a most important matter for consideration. When they have been of but short duration, they may possibly be dependent on conditions that are completely, and perhaps easily remoA'able by proper treatment; tor instance, on extravasation ot blood, or on acute serous inflammatory cflusion. But when the symptoms, however slight they may be, have continued even without progressive increase, but haAC merely remained stationary for a lengthened period of many months, they