102 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. carrying the knife downwards and backwards through the thick muscles in- this situation. In doing this, the thigh should be extended and rotated' inwards, so as to clear the trochanter. 'The posterior flap may be about four' Fig. 66.—Amputation at the Hip-joint: Formation of Anterior Flap in Left Limh. inches in length ; but this must of course xary according to the length of the- anterior flap. When the amputation is performed on the right side, tho anterior flap is made by entering the knife just above the tuberosity of the ischium, and bringing it out two fingers’ breadth below the anterior superior spine of the ihnm (Fig. 67) ; the remaining steps of the operation being- performed as in the last case. In consequence of the extent to which the hmb that is about to be removed may have been injimed, or have been encroached upon by disease, it is not always easy to make the anterior flap of the size or shape described. A little management on the part of the Surgeon will however enable him to take the requisite amount of covering from the outer or iimer parts, by inclining the point or the heel of the knife downwards, as the case may require ; or he may make the anterior flap by incision from Avithout imyards, instead of by trausfix:ion. When the femur is entire and unbroken. Assistant hio. 2 uses it as a lever, bringmg the loAA'er end of it in the second stage of the opeiation downwards and ourivards, thus causing the head of the bone to press against the anterior part of the capsule, and to start out vnth a peculiar sucking noise as soon as that is opened. Should, hoAA'eA'cr, the bone haye been fractured high up, this movement cannot be given to it; and then the Surgeon must grasp the upper end of the femur beloAi" the trochanteis, so as to steady and push it back as he is disarticulating its head. In two of the cases in which I have amputated at the hip-joint, it has been neccssaiy to do this— in one, in consequence of the crush of the bone, two inches bclon the