79 AMPUTATION OF THE MET AT AREAL BONES. blade made to sweep uudcr the bone from Avithout inward, and the tarsal joint opened as described in the flap operation. This process has the ad\'antage of leaving the sole uninjured. It has the disadvantage of lii\-onring an accumulation of sanies and pus at the deeper part of the Avound. 3. If the disease be limited to the anterior part, the shaft of the bone should be cut across Avith a pair of bone-nippers, and its base left; for, as this giA'cs insertion to the pei’oneus longus, its removal Avill materially Aveaken the foot. Tlie Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe may conveniently be removed by an oval incision, so as to aAmid Avounding the sole of the foot. This is best done by entering the point of the knife just behind the tubercle of the bone, canying it for- Avards and inwards in the hne of its articulation Avith the cuboid, to the centre of the foiu’th digital interspace, and thence forwards to the web of the toe ; the knife is next car- ried round the plantar sinface of this, the incision bemg con- tinued obliquely into that Avhich has been made on the dorsum of the foot (Fig. 41). The small flap thus formed is weU dissected doAvu, the knife passed Toiuid the under sinface of the bone, and the joint opened by the toe lieing forcibly draAvn outwards, and its ligamentous connections lightly divided. The middle metatarsal bones, when diseased, do not admit of separate remoA'al so as to leave a foot that would be useful to a patient. Fig. 41.—Removal of Metatarsal Bone of Little Toe Flap Formed: Boue being cleared. Amputation of the Metatarsus.—When the metatarsus aud anterior part of the foot are extensiA’ely diseased or injured so as to require removal, the amputation may be effected by one of two methods ; auz., 1. By making a flap from the sole and a transverse incision across the dorsum, aud then saAAiug across the metatarsus as a whole aboA'e the seat of injmy or disease ; or, 2. By dis- articulating the metatarsus from the tarsus. The first operation that of saAving through the metatarsus—is usually called Lisfranc s ; but in reality it AA^as practised and described by Hey long before Lisfrauc s time. The operation by disarticulation is that to which Key’s narne is generally attached. He describes the fii’st case as having been peffomied in 1797, and speaks of it as “ a ncAV mode of ojierating, AiBich after repeated trial has fully ansAvered my expectations.” The whole of the Metatarsal Bones may then be remoA'cd from the tarsal by the operation originally planned aud executed by Hey. This consists in first of all making a large comox flap in the sole of the foot, one horn of AAdiich commences at the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone, whilst the other terminates at that of the first, or rather one inch in front of the tubercle of the scaphoid. ^ A small flap is then made on the dorsum of the foot and the articulations are exposed. These must then be opened AAuth some especially, being sunk into a kind of pit between the inner and outer