FRACTURES. 384 clothes being well raised by means of 'a cradle, so as not to press on the limb, and to allow space for the evaporation of the cold lotion ; care being taken, at the same time, that the bandages bo applied very loosely, merely with a suhicient degree of force to retain the limb upon the splint, as inflammatory infiltration, that might rapidly induce strangulation of the part, is apt to ensue. The constitutional irritation must be subdued by the administration of opiates, together ^rith an aperient, on the morning follomng the accident; and those medicines must be repeated from time to time during the fii’st few days. Moderate and cooling regimen must be employed, and the patient be disturbed as little as possible. In many cases suppination rapidly sets in, and. if the patient be addicted to drinking, the constitutional distiuhance soon assumes the inntative form : in these circumstances, it is of great moment that support, and even stimulants, be freely given ; they must be allowed from the very first, and increased in proportion to the depression of the patient’s strength, or as symptoms of nervous irritation come on. If there be much extravasation of blood into the soft parts, and bruising, gi-eat tension of the limb, followed by unhealthy suppination and sloughing, will take place in the neighboinhood of the wound; free incisions are then required to remove the tension and strangulation of the tissues, and, by letting out the broken-down blood and pus, to lessen the risk of the occun-ence of gangrene. It is in these cases that much injiny results from blindly follow- ing as a routine practice in all cases indiscriminately, the treatment which is undoubtedly of the highest value in some ; viz., that of keeping over the wound any impervious dressing, whether antiseptic, plasters, or a pad of lint that has become hard and impermeable by imbibition of dried blood, with a view to closure by the first intention. The natinal vent to the discharge through the external opening being interfered with, deep infiltration takes place through the areolar planes of the limb, and the most extensive local mischief may result, pyaemia being almost certain to ensue. As soon as suppuration is fairly estab- lished, a light poultice or thick oakum water-dressing should be apphed, and the bmTowing of matter prevented by making counter-openings where necessary, by the application of a compress, and by attention to the position of the limb. The fractin’c-apparatus must be kept scrupulously clean, especially in summer ; the bandages changed as often as soiled, and the pads well protected with oiled silk. During this period various compheations, such as erysipelas, infiammation of the absorbents and veins, and low forms of pneumonia, are apt to occm-, requu'ing special consideration and treatment; so also, fr the discharo-e be'abundant, hectic, with its sweats and gastro-intestmal irrita- tion, may come on, requiring frill support of the powers of the system, and the administration of the mineral acids and other remedies, according to circumstances. As the confinement to bed is necessarily very prolonged in these cases, often extending thi’ough many weeks and months, the state of the patient’s back should be attended to, and he should early be placed upon a water-cushion, or hydrostatic bed, lest sores supervene. As the wound gradually heals, water-dressing must be substituted for pou tices, so as parts and encoiuage suppuration, and, in time, the icd 01 blue vas 0 Lter-di’essing. The bone will often be observed lying white and bare, bathed in pus, at the bottom of the wound. But even in this appaiently unfaioiu-