ULCERATION. 162 4. A vesicle or pustule forming on the cutaneous surface, and shedding its contents, very commonly gives rise to an ulcer, as in rupia and pemphigus. 5. Suppurative inflammation not unfrequently occurs in the subcutaneous or submucous areolar tissues, and, by undermining and consequently destroying the- vascularity of the skin and mucous membrane, and thus arresting its nutrition,, gives rise to ulcer. G. Ulceration may be produced by a severe mechamcal injury, by long con- tinued pressiu’e, or by the action of an irritant, prodircing a direct breach of surface. 7. In some specific cases, ulcei’ation is preceded by the fonnation of a morbid growth, tubercle, or tumour, in which infiammation and disintegration of tissue^. and consequent lesion of substance, occur. Situation.—Ulcers may be situated upon any part of the cutaneous sm’face- as the result of Aioleuce ; most conuuonly, when arising from some specific affection, they occur in particular situations, as on the penis, lips, tongue, &c.;; but when they occiu from disease of non-specific character they are usually seated on the leg. The lower half of the leg is the common seat of these sunple ulcers, which occur there in every possible variety. They are most common at or after the middle period of life, and are more frequently met with in the- poorer classes. They are especially predisposed to by all those circumstances that favom weakness of circulation, and consequently low vitafity of the part— as exposure to cold and Avet, Avant of food, &c. The skin of the loAver part of the leg is prone to these ulcerations, in consequence of its natural thinness, the feebleness of its circulation, more especially in advanced life, and its habihty to venous congestions from position. Ulcers that once foim here are slow in heahng and very liable to reem, because the conditions that led to their foi-mation may stiU exist, and there is often an absence of a proper subcutaneous areolo-adipose bed, with the consequent tendency to adhesion of the under sm’face of the ulcer to the aponeurosis or periosteum. Stages.—In Avhatever Avay ulceration commences, it presents thi’ee distinct stages : viz. 1, Extension or Slough ; 2, Arrest Avith Deposit of Plastic Matter;. and 3 Repair ly Granulation and Cicatrisation. 1 When the nicer is Spreading, there is alAA^ays a circle of inflammation aroimd it, as evinced by redness, heat, and a burning, thi’obbmg pain; its edo-es are jagged, eroded, or sharp cut and imdermmed its surface, which is more or less circular or oval, spreads nearly eqiiaUy from one starting-pomt, and is covered AAdth a greyish or yellowish, soft, adherent slough _ In ordinary cases this is thin and shi’eddy, but in some foi-ms of iilcemtion it ceous and elevated above the siuTOimding parts. There is eithei no discha at all,’ or only a bloody, ill-conditioned fluid, hardly desemiig the name of pus, that drains from the surface. 2. In the next stage, that of Arrest, the symptoms ot mflammatioii. and a layer of plastic matter is deposited in the tissues forming the base and sides 0/tho ideer. This not only serves to arrest or limit Hie hu-ther piores of ulceration, but becomes the medinni of ultimate to clean, the grey adherent slough separating iii ftnguientsnnddissolvin ill tho discharge, ivhich gi-adiially loses its sanions tmge, ™ ^ character of healthy pus, though still very seaiity. The smlace