598 SPEC IA L ERA CTUR ES. violence Fmeturcs of this bone ave often compound, sometimes in conse- quence of evtcinal noimd, but more frequently from the laceration of the gum unl-oque„t.y,W Fracture of the loivcr jaw may occur in various situations. I have seen it most ft-cqnently m the body of the bone near the symphysis extendi,,., between the latei-al incisor and the canine teeth. The symphysis’itself is not SO commonly fractured, tlie bone being thick in this situation. The anirle is more frequently broken. The coronoid process can only suffer fr-actm-e fr-om the most severe and direct external injm-y, as from a bullet-woimd.' The neck of the condyle is occasionally broken across. Fractures near the symphysis are usuaUy vertical. Those near the ano-le are commonly obhque fr-om before backwards, so that a long spiculum of the outer table is coimected with the upper fragment. These fractures are sometimes double, either symmetricaUy so, or more frequently one on the side near the symphysis, and the other near the angle. The Signs of fr-actine of the lower jaw are very obvious. The *gTeat mobihty of the fragments, the crepitus, the irregulcarity of the line of teeth and of the arch of the jaw, laceration of and bleeding fr-om the gums, and diibbling of sah\a, indicate unequivocally the natiue of the injury. The displacement and mobility of the fracture are greater, the nearer it is to the symphysis. If the bone happen to be broken on both sides of this line, the middle fr-agment is much dragged out of place by the depressor muscles attached to it; indeed, in all double fr-actiues the displacement is very great. In fractiu’e about the angle and lower part of the ramus, the deformity is not so great, owing to the muscles that coat and protect each side of the bone in this situation preventing the fragments from being displaced. When the neck of the condyle is broken through, that process, coming under the influence of the external pterygoid muscle, is often a great deal disiDlaced. When the fractiue is near the symphysis, the dental canal escapes ; but Avhen it is fruther back in the body of the bone, and especially near the angle, the canal must necessarily be impheated. It is remarkable, however, that the inferior dental nerve usuaUy escapes injury or division in many cases altogether, in others for several days, until, perhaps, OAving to great displace- ment or to some effort of reduction, it may be tom across. When this happens, the soft parts of the lower hjA, supjDhed by the mental branch of the inferior dental, are necessarily for a time deprived of sensation, but they soon recover. I have never knoAvn any permanent mischief fr-om this cause, or fr-om the htemorrhage following laceration of the hiferior dental artery. The Treatment is simple enough in principle, though often not A'ery easy of accomphshment. It consists in maintaining the pai-ts in apposition by suitable apparatus for four or five Aveeks, diuing Avhich time mastication must be inter- dicted, the patient living on sops, soups, and fluid nourishment of all kinds, and talking being prohibited. The appai-atus that commonly sufiices consists of a gutta-percha sphnt (Fig. 149), moulded to the pai-t (Fig. 150), properly padded, and fixed on A\dth a foiu-tailed bandage ; the two fore-ends ot whicli arc tied behind the neck, Avhilst the other tAvo are knotted over the top of the head (Fig. 151). When the ramus is broken, the side of the gutta-percha ciq>