ACCIDENTS DURING TREATMENT. zn turn over and stitch down on the outer piece. The splint is then re-adjusted and fixed by a bandage (Fig. 144). Fig. 144.—Bavarian Plaster Splint: adjustment of tlie Flannel Layers. Tn all cases in which the plaster bandage is used, there is danger of unsafe constriction of the limb after the setting of the plaster, either in conse- quence of the atiparatus hating been apphed too tightly, or of the inner bandage, which has been directly applied to the limb, becoming tightened ,by the swelling of the member within it. Hence great care must be taken for several days after the application of the apparatus, to watch the limb carefully, and if signs of over constrictions come on, such as pain, coldness, numbness, and oedema of the extremities, whether toes or fingers, immediately to cut it up, re-adjust, or remove it. Ho time shoidd be lost in doing this, as the limb may have become gangTenous in patches, with little suffering to the patient or constitutional distiu’bance. In the treatment of ordinary simple fractures of the shafts of long bones, the following are the chief points that require attention : 1. To effect reduction at once, and with as httle distm’bance of the limb as. possible. 2. Hot to apply any roller to the part of the limb in which the fi’acture is. situated, nor under the apparatus. 3. To line, pad, or wad the apparatus thickly. . f' iiiclude and fix in the aj)j)aratus the two joints connected with the injured bone. 0. To disturb the apparatus as seldom as jjossible. fi. To use starched jiasteboard or plaster apparatus, when jiracticable, in preterence to any more special form of apphance. Accidents during Treatment.—Various accidents are liable to occur fin mg e treatment of a fracture ; some of these are gerreral, others special. A^ngst the more general accidents, Tetairus, Traumatic Deliriimr, and Erysi- pe as may e mentioned as the most common. Anrongst the more special the occurTence of Spasm of the Muscles of the Limb, Abscess, (Edema, Hanoi-ene ancl Cerebral Corrgestion, are those that'’have most to be guarded against. In order to prevent the occuri’ence of these corrditiorrs, the gerreral health operr, 5reImn the use of allowed, and long confinement to bed avoided by a movable-immovable” apparatrrs, as above described. >e reatment of the more general accidents presents rrothing that need B c 2