270 INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. conseqiionco of sudden and profuse ]ia3moiTliage, the patient is threatened with a fatal syncope. Dr. Blundell invented a syi’inge by which the operation might ])e more safely performed than had heretof(;re been done ; and by his practice, experiments, and argnments, established the system on a secure basis. Since his time, many impro-\-ements ha^'e been made in the method of per- forming’ transfusion. Dp to a recent period, this was in^'ariably done by l■ecei^’ing the blood from the donor into a vessel of some kind, and thence pumping it into the veins of the recipient. But this method is attended by n A Fig. 109.—Avelmg s Metliod of Transfusion. A, Arm of Donor; B, Arm of Reciinent. two soin’ces of danger, which no mechanical provisions are sufficiently accui’ate entirely to prevent, viz., the introduction of air, and the coagulation of the fibrine of the blood. Dr. Aveling has, however, OA'ercome these difficulties by the employment of an ajiparatus, which is seen in operation in Fig. 100. Aveling’s transfusion apparatus consists of two silver bevel-ended tubes, one of which is introduced into the vein of the donor, the other into that of the re- cipient. The vein should be opened as recommended by Avehng, by exposing the vessel, and then making a sharp cut into it (Fig. 110.) The India-rubber part of the apparatus is filled with warm water, which is retained there by turning the two stop-cocks. It is then fitted on to the tubes in the veins, and the stop-cocks opened. The India- rubber tube on the efferent side is then compressed, and the bulb slowly squeezed, so as to empty the water which it contains into the recipient vein. The tube on the recipient side is then compressed, and that on the efferent opened ; the bulb slowly fills Tvith blood, which is then injected by compressing the e&rent and openmg the recipient tube, and so alternately until a sufficient quantity is throwii m. The operation of transfusion is one of much delicacy, requiring special caie lest one of two accidents happen, viz., the injection of air into the patieiit s veins or of a fibrinous embolon. The first danger is obviated by filhii^ the Fig, . no.—Introduction of Transfusion-pipe into Vein. )