253 BURNS AND SCALDS. CHAPTER XII. —•— EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. BTJENS AND SCALDS. A Burn is the result of the application of so great a degree of heat to the body as to produce either inflauimation of the part to which it is applied, or charring and complete disorganisation of its tissue. A Scald is occasioned by the application of some hot fluid to the body, giving rise to the same destruc- tive effects as are met with in burns, though differing from them in the appearances produced. Local Effects.—Burns and scalds vary greatly in the degi’ee of disorgani- sation of tissue to which they give rise; this variation depending partly upon the intensity of the heat, and partly upon the duration of its apphcation. The sudden and brief apphcation of flame to the siuface in’oduces but very slight disorganisation of the cuticle, with some hypertemia of the skin. If the part be exposed for a longer time to the action of the flame, as when a woman’s clothes take fire, the cutis itself may be disorganised; and if the heat be still more intense, as when molten metal falls upon the body, the soft parts may be deeply charred, or the whole thickness of a limb destroyed. So, also, the effects of scalds vary greatly, not oidy according to the temperature of the liquid, but accorchng to its character; the more oleaginous and thick the fluid, the more severe usually will the scald be. These various results of the apphcation of heat to the surface have been an-anged by Dupuytren into six different degrees of burn. This classification is not merely a fanciful, or even a pimely pathological, arrangement of the effects produced by the application of heat; but it is of great practical impor- tance, as the degree and character of the resulting cicatrix are dependent on the depth to which the bimn penetrates into the tissues. Hence the future conditions can be determined by ascertaining, in the first instance, the degree to which the burn belongs. In ths. first degree, the application of fire has been momentary. It has been followed by congestive redness and pain—phenomena that resemble erysipelas. But there is no solution of continuity, no destruction of tissue ; and conse- quently there is no resulting cicatrix. This is the acute stage of the first degree. In other cases, the effects may be more chronic, as in those instances where, in old people who sit constantly before the fire or over charcoal foot- warmers, changes are gradually induced in the integuments and superficial structures of the lower extremities. In the second degree the cuticle is detached ; and there are vesications and phlycten®. There is consequently loss of substance, so far as cuticle is concerned. This is sometimes followed by suppuration ; and, although no