889 RODENT ULCER AND GANGER COMPARED. enchonclromata, for instance, that they may differ from cancer histologically, but resemble it clinically in some of their varieties. May we not with justice see the converse here : viz., a disease that somewhat resembles histologically, but that differs in every respect clinically from, a cancerous deposit ? Clinical affinity is sm’ely of as much account as histological resemblance. Let us compare the two affections in their leading characters. In cancer, the disease often commences in early or at most middle life ; the rodent ulcer always in advanced life or old age. In cancer, there is an active vegetative outgrowth ; in rodent ulcer, destruction and absorption of tissue. Cancer usually commences deeply—rarely in the skin, which is involved secondarily; rodent ulcer always in the skin primarily, never in the deeper parts. -Epithelioma ever affects primarily the mucous or muco-cutaneous sur- iaces ; rodent ulcer, always the true skin. Cancer is rapid in its local progress ; rodent ulcer is slow beyond any other disease. Cancer is often primarily multiple, especially when superficial, developing or rapidly extending by many scattered tubercles ; rodent nicer is always single, arising from one solitary starting point. Cancer speedily gives rise to secondary deposits in contiguous structures ; rodent ulcer, never. Cancer leads to secondary visceral deposits ; Fig. 327.—Vertical Section of Rodent Ulcer—a, Epidermis halls—6, Stroma (after C. Warren). rodent ulcer never leads to implication of internal organs. Cancer produces constitutional cachexy, blood-changes, and malnutrition ; rodent ulcer, even when most chronic, is usually associated with perfect health. A cancerous ulcer shows no tendency to cicatrise ; a rodent ulcer always gives evidences of imperfect attempts at repair. A cancer, when removed by operation, almost invariably recurs ; a rodent ulcer, if completely extirpated, has no tendency to recurrence. Thus, then, in all essential respects, except in the one of occasional similarity in structure, so. far as the hardened edge of the rodent ulcer is concerned, the two diseases are not only so dissimilar, but even so clinically opposed, that it does not appear to be justifiable to group them together. It may, in fact, be said, that rodent ulcer is allied to, but not analogous to, the cancers ; that it IS more local and less constitutional, even secondarily, than epithelioma ; that,