DISEASES OF VEINS. 924 tw if “ rcciaisli-pui-ple coloiii-; and thcio IS some degree of pam, stillhess, or inability to move the limb There may perhaps be no pain when the limb is at rest, but in some cases there are ly severe shocks ot pain, resembhng neuralgia, darting through the limb ■ <nncl m all cases there is deep tenderness over the course of the vessel There IS always some cMema around the inflamed i-ein, and in the part that supphes 1 with blood. This cedematous condition of the limb is a most important aiagnostic sigii in deep-seated embolic phlebitis when the vein cannot be felt <as in the pelvis, for instance), and may perhaps be the first symptom observed, coming on either suddenly or gradually. The oedema may give rise to a hard, white, and tense condition of the limb, which pits on pressure, though in some •cases the hardness is too great for this. Occasionally, in deep phlebitis, the limb may suddenly swell to a considerable size -without there being any subcutaneous oedema. In phlebitis of the deep veins of the leg and thigh, the calf of the affected limb may suddenly enlarge, with great pain and much distension of the superficial veins with fluid blood, but without any sub- cutaneous oedema. As the inflammation subsides, the swelling of the limb goes do-Rm, the circulation passing through its former channels, or the blood being carried off by the collateral venous system. If suppuration occur, no change takes place in the symptoms so long as the pus is localised or encysted. It may perforate the coats of the vein, and, passing into the external areolar tissue, form a common abscess. If it break through its plastic barriers within the vein, then a xqvj different result occurs, and the symptoms of pytemia come on. But, unless this occiu’, the constitutional disturbance in this form of phlebitis is very mild. Treatment.—The first point to be attended to in the treatment of obstructive phlebitis is absolute rest of the limb affected. The importance of rest in these cases is twofold ; 1st, to prevent pain and increase of local mischief; and, 2ndly, to guard against the danger that may result from the detachment of a thrombus, which, carried into the cimrent of the circulation, may occasion sudden death by plugging of the pulmonary artery, or more remotely fatal consequences by embolic disintegration and deposit in the lungs or brain. Much local comfort is derived from hot fomentations. The constitutional treatment must be conducted on ordinary medical principles, in accordance with the age and strength of the patient. As a rule, depletory measures are not well borne, and eaidy recourse must be had to a tonic or stimulating plan. The hardness which is often left after the removal of the inflammation may usually be removed by salt and nitre poultices, as recommended by Basham. If abscesses form, they must be opened. If oedema of the limb continue, the application of bhsters, or the pressure of an elastic roller, will remove it. But the hmb rarely, if ever, completely recovers its natural size. Diffuse Phlebitis has been described as an erysipelatous form of the disease, often running for a considerable distance along the lining membrane of the vein, which becomes thickened, pulpy, and red, without adhesions forming or the blood coagulating ; indeed, in cases of this kind there appeal’s to be a great want of plasticity in that fluid. This form of phlebitis is com- monly, though not always, fatal : its fatahty was supposed by Hunter to be owing to the extension of the inflammation to the heart, and by Hodgson to