PREFACE. T1 He must lay down clearly the broad General Principles on which the L/ase rests; detail its facts in an orderly and succinct manner, draw those deductions which legitimately flow therefrom, and guide his Pupils to arrive at just conclusions by the light of his own more matured and extended experience. Feeling deeply the responsibilities that thus attach themselves to him as a Teacher, the Author has spared no exertion in endeavouring to render the Seventh Edition of “ The Science and Art of Surgery ”■ worthy of the continued confidence of the Profession. With this view the whole Work has been carefully revised, and much new and important matter has been added. The additions thus made have not been confined to any one particular part, but have been widely distributed through the various subjects of which the Work treats. They are not to be measured merely by the increased bulk of the Work, being, in reahty, far more extensive than may at first appear, as they often take the place of old matter that, having become obsolete, has been cancelled. One Hundred and Fifty new Illustrations have been added to the Text, and many of the old ones have been redrawn in an improved style. Whenever a Woodcut has been copied from another Work, the name of the Author of the Work whence it has been taken has been appended to it. When no such acknowledgment is made, the Figure is original, belongs exclusively to this Work, and, except in the case of Diagrams, has been drawn from Nature. To his friend and former Pupil, Mr. R. J. Godlee, the Author is indebted for a series of Microscopical Illustrations of Pathological Sub- jects, which have been drawn expressly for this Work. They are alike true to nature and admirable in execution, and will, it is hoped, be found of much use to the Student of Surgical Pathology. The Book has been printed in a bolder and more legible type than was employed in former Editions. But no change has been made in the general arrangement of the various subjects of which it treats. Throughout the Work it has been the object of its Author to place before the Student and Practitioner the Science and the Art of Surgeiy, not as consisting merely in the observation of such Injuries, Diseases, and Malformations, as are met with in Surgical Practice, or in the