JNJUlilES OF THE SPINE. 588 ot the column. Ifc is gi'cafcly increased by to-and-fi'o mo\'ements, however sliglit, and especially by rotation ; also by pressure upon, and by lifting i;p the head so as to pnt the tissues on the stretch. In consecpionco of this, the patient keeps the neck and head immoA'able, rigid, looking straight forwards. He cannot raise his head off a pillow without the assistance of his own hand, or that of another person. d'ho Lumbar Spine is often strained in railway collisions, with or without similar injury to the cervical portion of the column, in consequence of the body being forcibly swayed backwards and forwards during the jaiTing oscil- lations of the carriage on the receipt of a powerful shock. In such cases the same kind of pain is complained of. There is the same rigidly inflexible con- dition of the spine, with tenderness on external pressure, and gi-eat aggravation of suffering on movement, more particularly if the patient bend backwards. The patient is unable to stoop ; in attempting to do so, ho always goes down on one of his knees. The muscles and fascite at the back are also often stretched and tom, in cases of hvists and strains of the ligaments of the spinal column. There may therefore be swelling and induration of these tissues from the presence of inflammatory effusions and inability to use the muscles. But the gTeat danger of these strains of the spine is, that they are not imfi-equently associated with some of the most serious affections of the spinal cord that are met “with in surgical practice as a consequence of injury. They may of themselves prove most serious, or even fatal. The Prognosis will depend partly on the extent of the stretching of the muscular and hgamentous structiu’es, partly on whether there is any inflam- matory action excited in them which may extend to the interior of the spinal canal. As a general rule, where muscular, tendinous, and ligamentous struc- titres have been violently stretched, as in an ordinary sprain, however severe, they recover themselves in the course of a few weeks, or at most within three or six months. If a joint, as the shoulder or ankle, continue to be weak and preternaturally mobile, in consequence of elongation of the ligaments, oi weak- ness or atrophy of the muscles, beyond this period, it will, in all probability, never be so strong as it was before the accident. The same holds good with the spine ; and a vertebral column which has been so weakened as to require artificial support, after several months, in order to enable it to maintain the weight of the head, will probably never regain its normal strength. One great prospective danger in strains of the spine is the possibility of the inflammation developed in the fibrous structmes of the column extending to the meninges of the cord. This I have several times seen. It is particularly apt to happen when the strain or twist occurs between the occiput and the atlas or axis. In these cases a rigid tenderness is gTadnally developed, which is most distressing and persistent, and eHdently inflammatory. Or the paralysis may be confined to the nerves that are connected with that part of the spine that is the seat of the ivrench, one or other of their roots either hai'ing suffered lesion, or the nervous cord itself having been injined m its passage through the intei- vertebral foramen. Lastly, a twist of the spine may sloiOy and nisidioiisly be followed by symptoms of complete paraplegia, anc ei en iia y ly c ca i extravasation of blood into the vertebral canal.