175 VASGULAl{Ii:iATION OF LYMPH. it is not until the third or fourth day that the subcutaneous fat becomes; coated in the same way; and eight or ten days elapse before the adhesi^'c lymph is thrown out upon the cut surface of the bone ; and here it shoAvs- itself firet on the medullaiy canal, afterwards on the cancellous textiu’O, and lastly upon the hard bone. For the production and organisation of this. lymj)h a certain amount of inflammation is a necessai-y condition, but, as before said, it must be confined Avithin proper limits ; an inflammation that is- too intense or too prolonged is fatal to the adhesh'e process. If too violent, the adhesive stage Avill be hun-ied into the suppurative ; whilst, if it be toO' long continued, the development of the lymph Avill be interfered AAuth ; for,, although inflammation is necessary for the foi-mation of the bond of union,, none is required for its organisation, or for its ultimate develoj)ment into fibro- areolar tissue. From what has been stated aboA'e, it is clear that no blood must be per- mitted to remain betAA’een the opposed surfaces Avhen brought into contact Avith a view to their adhesion ; it Avould simply act as an impediment to the coalescence of the fibrinous layers. Moreover, it Avdll eventually break doAAni, and disintegrate in the suppurative discharges excited by its presence ; hence in the dressing of siu'gical Avounds, such as stumps after amputation’ and in aU cases in Avhich it is advisable to attempt to procime union by adhesive inflammation, the ent surfaces should not be brought together for a few hoiu-s, imtil all oozing of blood has ceased and the fibrinous layer has been thrown out. Vascularisation of Lymph.-In lymph that undergoes development, blood- vessels are seen to make their appearance at an early period. With regard to the precise time of their formation, Dupuytren and Villerm4 state, from their experiments on dogs, that twenty-one days are required ; and Travers fr'om his ^penments on the frog’s web, fixed the same period as that in AA^hich red blood n 1"" Wver, the lymph on the surface of c ilcer 01 AAomid certainly ajipears to become vascular long before this. How are the new A-essels formed ?—by development in the lymph ? or bv n" Tit • J^okitansky incline to the formed th^it fbp '1 Q^^ekett, who investigated the matter fully, believed that the vessels are always projected into the lymph fr-om neighbourino- parts ■ and Paget agrees Avith these observers. Travers states distinctly, as t&\-esult ™ to -bon.e out by to result, of to 0.^^“ - -.e ■is“ S ops y w ich this interesting process is nccomplishod, are the folloivi Vlllg.