636 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. the blood tbrough the -wound, and pcrliaps to close it entirely. The size of the wound, however, will necessarily intluencc the result more materially than its directiom Not only, however, may a person live a considerable time after having received a penetrating wound of the heart, but there arc many cases on record in which life has been prolonged even though a foreign body Averc lodged in the cavities or substance of the organ. Thus Ferrus relates the case of a man ivho lived for twenty days with a skewer traversing the heart from side to side; and Eoux that of a man who lived twenty-one”days with a portion of a file, ivith ivhich he had stabbed himself, in the Avail of the left A'entricle. Davis and Stewart found a piece of wood, three inches long, in the right ventricle of a boy, Avho lived five weeks after the accident had happened; Carnochan relates a case in Avhich the wounded man survived eleven days Avith a bullet deeply lodged in the substance of the apex of the heart; and Latour records the case of a soldier who lived for six years after being Avomided Avith a musket-ball in the side, and in the right ventricle of whose heart the bullet was foiuid lodged, lying against the septum. OUivier, Jamain, West, and especially Fischer, have collected statistics Avith regard to the relative frequency of wounds of the different caAuties of the heart. Fischer has collected 452 cases, in Avhich the right ventricle is stated to have been Avouiided in 123, the left ventricle in 101, and both ventricles in 26. In 28 cases the right auricle, and in 13 the left, was the seat of injury. The apex of the heart was wounded in 17. The reason of the fi’equency of Avound of the right A'entricle is the obAuous anatomical fact that it lies more anteriorly than the left, and hence is more likely to be injured by wounds that penetrate the chest from the front—this being the most common situation of wounds that injure the heart. According to Fischer, in 258 cases the heart was AAmimded from the front of the thorax, in 26 from the abdomen, in 11 fi’om behind, and in 5 fr’om the side. The pericardium is necessarily womided in most cases of AA^omids of the heart. But there are instances on record in which a ball has entered the chest and caused a laceration of the heart-substance Avithout penetrating the peri- cardium, which escaped in consequence of its firmness and fibrous character. Again, as has aheady been stated, the pericardium alone may be injured: Fischer has collected 51 such cases. The Symptoms of a wound of the heart, when immediately fatal, are as follows. The person struck springs up coiwulsively, or falls suddenly prostrate; sometimes Avith, sometimes without, a sudden and sharp shriek. Death results fr’om hmmon’hage, which AA'iU. be profuse, and pass out beyond the pericardium, if the wound be large' and that membrane be widely opened; or hito the pericardium, AAdth choking of the heart from compression, if the Avouud be small. In either case, death 'is hastened by collapse arising fr’oin shock to the central organ of the circulation itself, and to the system at large from the wound of so important an organ. If the Avound be small and death be not immediate, there are eAudenccs of great shock in the intense depression of vital poAver, the pallid and anxious countenanee, and the relaxation of the limbs. The aetion ol the heart itselt is tumultuous, Aveak, and irregular ; the pulse is scarcely perceptible ; the breathing is frightfully embarrassed. If the patient siu'vive a few days, these