70 SPECIAL AMPUTA TIG NS. is attached now only by the flexor tendons, which may be di\-ided by a snu-le sweep of the knife—the palmar flap being carefully held out of tlie w^y. he palmar flap will be found usually to contain the median and ulnar nerves and the superficial palmar arch, with portions of the muscles of the thumb and little finger. It is better to cut the two nerves short, in order to pre^-ent their implication in the cicatrix. A-MPUTATlOlf OF THE AEjM.—Amputation of the Pore-arm is not un- frequently required for disease or injury of the wrist or hand. In perfonning: this operation, as long a stump should be left as possible, so as to giA’e the patieut more power o-s'cr any artificial limb that may be fitted to it. The flaps should be about a couple of inches in length, and well rounded, the hand being placed in a mid-state between pronation and supination. The dorsal flap is best made by cutting from without in- wards ; the line of incision com- mences just at the pahnar aspect of the ulna, is carried forward for a little distance parallel to this bone, and then across the back of the aim in a slightly cunud manner, until it Fig. 30.-Amimtation of the Fore-arm. Transfixion I’e^l^heS the palmar aspect of the of the ^Interior Flap. I’achus ; it then passos along this. until it reaches a point opposite to that at which it commenced, and the flap thus made is dissected back. The pahnar flap is next made by transfixion (Fig. 30). As soon as it is cut, the bones are cleared by a couple of sweejis. of the knife, and the interosseous membraue is dmded; the bones are then sa^ni together. The vessels are cut long at the end and on each side of the- pialmar flap. When the pahnar flap is formed by transfixion in amputation of the fore-ami, considerable inconvenience is often caused by the protrusion of the mass of tendons and muscles included in it. To avoid this, both flaps may bo made by cutting from ivithout inwards. It is advisable to make the dorsal flap a little- longer than the pahnar, so that the line of the cicatrix may fall iveU away from the ends of the bones. The operation may be thus peifomied (Fig. 31). The Sm-geon, standing so as to take the flaps in his left hand, and holding tho arm Avith its dorsal surface upwards, enters the knife at the pahnar edge of the- bone fru'thest from him. He then marks out a flap from the dorsal surface, equal in length to two-thirds of the antero-posterior diameter of the limb at the point Avhere it is intended to saw the bones. The flap must be sufficiently broad, and rounded at its corners. After raising this, taking only the skin and fat, a flap similar in shape, but half the length, may be raised from the palmar sirnface in the same way. The knife is noAV fiiTuly sivept round the bones at the level of tho- angle of the flaps (Fig. 31), so as to divide the muscles circularly at this point. The soft parts are noAV to be retracted from the bones by a process of careful