768 TUMOURS. they show an extraordinary tendency to local reeiirrcncc after removal; but it IS rare for them to give rise to secondary deposits in internal organs.' Pao-et describes these growths under the name of recurrent fibroid tumours, and relates sc\'cral instances of them. One was a tumour of the upper part of the leg, Avhich bet^veen lb4G and the end of 1848 had been remo^■ed five times, and reappeared for the sixth time after the last operation, Avhen, as it had become large and ulcerated, amputation Avas deemed adAosable ; this procedure, hoAvever, was followed by death. The examination of the third tumour pre- sented “ very narrow, elongated, caudate, and oat-shaped nucleated cells, many of Avhich had long and subdivided terminal processes ; ” in the last removed tmnora-, the cells M^ere generally filled with minute shining molecules, as if fatty degeneration had taken place. In another case, a tumour of the shoulder had been removed, and retmmed four times between May, 1848, and December, 1849, reappearing in the following year for the fifth time ; it, however, after a time became stationary, and many years afterwards the patient, l)ut for the presence of the tumoim, might be considered to be a strong and healthy man. Paget also relates a case in which, beDveen 1839 and 1851, Syme removed a tumour of this kind five times from the upper part of the chest: it recurred a sixth time and was followed by death. He also refers to a case by Gluge, in which a similar tumour was five times removed fr-om the scapula, its sixth reappearance being followed by death. The most interesting of all is a case by Maclagan, in which four removals were performed in the course of thirty- six years, twenty-three years inteiTcning between the second and third removals, and eleven between the third and fourth. Since this form of tumour Avas first described by Paget, a number of instances have been recorded by British and continental Surgeons. These recurrent tumours appear to become more mahgnant in the later than in the earlier recuiTences, becoming more painfid, rapidly degenerating, and giAung rise to an ulcerating fungus, which eventually proves fatal by exhaustion and haemorrhage. The cells Avill then be foiuid to have become larger, and the intercellular substance softer and devoid of fibrillation ; and, in fact, they merge into the large-celled form of spindle- celled sarcoma. Lar(je spindle-celled sarcomata, formerly often spoken of as fibro-plastic tumoiu’S, are much softer than the variety last described. They are usually of a pinkish colour, frequently stained dark red in parts fr-om extravasations of blood, and if of any size, their central parts are opaque and yelloAV fr-om the effects of fatty degeneration. They yield more or less transparent viscid juice on scraping, mixed Avith fragments of the growth. They may be distinctly circumscribed and encapsuled, but not infrequently they invade sim-oimding parts. They frequently contain cysts of some size, sometimes filled with straAV-coloined fluid and sometimes with blood or a blood-coloined liquid. These tumoins form frequently in connection with bones, especially conmiencing nnder the periosteiun of the shafts of long bones or about the bones of the face or nose. A few years ago I amputated a thigh at the hip-joint in UniAei- sity College Hospital, 'for a large tumour of this kind growing beneath the periosteum of the femur, and in another case the arm Avas remoAed by Heath for a similar growth. Both had caused spontaneous fracture of the hone, and both ultimately proA-ed fatal fr-om internal deposits. These tumoui-s