lOO SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 92 per cent. In some hospitfils primary amputation of the thigh seems almost invariably to have been a fatal procedm’c ; whilst in other institutions the- mortality has not exceeded 50 or (10 per cent. At Guy’s Hospital and at University College, secondary amputation of the thigh has been more fatal than the primary. Tlie result of amputation of the thigh for disease of the knee-joint depends entirely upon whether the affection is acute or chronic. In acute snppuratn'e disorganisation of the knee, amputation of the thigh is most fatal ; indeed, so- high is the rate of mortality, that it is doubtful whether it is proper to perform the operation in that stage of the affection. In chronic knee-joint disease, on the other hand, the operation is most satisfactory and successful ; death seldom resulting unless the operation has been defeiTed too long. The general percentage of mortahty after amputation for disease is about 32-5. The causes of death vary according to the condition for which the operation is performed. In primary traumatic amputation, the fatal event is chiefly brought about by exhaustion, traumatic gangrene of the stump, or secondary hsemon-hage. In secondary amputations, and in those for disease pyaemia,, erysipelas, and exhaustion are the usual causes of death. Amputatiobt at the Hip-joiitt.—This formidable operation is of com- paratively recent introduction into surgery. During the early part and middle of the past century, its practicability was warmly canvassed in France. It was performed on animals expeiimentally. It was found that patients •affected Avith ergotism, whose lower extremities had become gangTenous, and had separated at the hip-joint, siuAuved ; and, at last, in the year 1773, the first successfid amputation of the kind was performed by Perrault of St. Maure. In the next year, the operation was done in England by Kerr of Northampton, on a girl aged 12, affected with coxalgia and lumbar abscess. The operation was unjustifiable in such a case, but the patient hA-ed 17 days,, and thus its practicability Avas demonstrated. Larrey performed it in 1793 for the first time for gmi-shot injmy; and since that time the operation has become an established one in surgical practice, civil as Avell as military. The operation was first performed successfully in England in 1812, by BroAAmrigg, of Plymouth, on a man whose thigh had been broken in the Peninsular war a year preA'iously. Amputation at the hip-joint may be and has been performed in a A'ariety of ways, which it is not necessary to detail. The most convenient methods are those by ant^o-]]osterior and by laleral flaps. Of these, that by antero-posterior flap is the simplest and speediest, and leaves the best stump. It consists in making a large and thick anterior flap by transfixion, and a short posterior one from the gluteal region and back part of the thigh. In order to perform this operation properly, the patient’s body must be brought well forward upon the edge of the table, so that the nates project beyond it, and be steadied by strong- bandages. One of these must be passed between the sound thigh and the perinanun, and attached to the upper end of the table ; another should be carried across the pelvis to the lower end ; and the sound hmb must be tied ta the leg of the table. The circulation through the hmb should then be arrested by the application of liister’s compressor to the abdominal aorta (Fig. Go).