INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. m Avlierc much traction may be expected, the suture' should be thick ; whilst ... those eases in which it is of importance that as little deformity as possible should bo loft, e.g., in plastic operations and in wounds about the face, it sliould consist of the finest material compatible Avith strength. The threads arc introduced by means of needles of different curves : in some instances it is convenient to have them set in a handle Avith the eye near the point (nsevus- ncedle), instead of in the ordinary position. For metallic thi-eads a slight modification of the ordinary needle is recpiu-ed, to prevent the AAire Avhen doubled back after passuig through the eye from offering any obstruction to its passage through the tissues ; “ tubular ” needles are also employed for this purpose. The modes of applying sutm-es are A'arious; but the one most commonly employed in aU cases involAung the integument, is the interrupted, Avhich consists of the introduction of as many single stitches, from an inch to an inch and a half apart, as may be necessaiy to close the opening. In longi- tudinal wounds, the first stitch should be inserted in the centre ; but if there be any angles, as must be the case after crucial incisions, the extremities should be first closed; if more than one sutiu-e be required, they should all be in position before the first is fastened. The fastening is effected in the case of the silk thread by tying the reef-knot, and in that of the Avire, by tAAisting the ends round one another ; in both instances, the ends arc cut off short. The knot or tAAist must not lie OA’er the line of incision, but on one or other side of it. The time that the sutures should be alloAved to remain, must depend greatly on the nature and progTess of the wound ; as a rule, from 24 to 48 hours is suificient; by that time they aaIII have answered their purpose of jDrocining union of the opposed siu’faces. EA-ery minute they are left in after this is detrimental to adhesion, and is attended AAith the risk of the excitation of undue reaction. The AA'ire suture may, however, in some cases be advanta- geously retained for a much longer period, CA'cn for six, eight, or ten days; but at hist even this will produce ulceration. In vithdraAving sutm-es, the knot or tAvist should be raised by forceps, and the thi-ead diiided on one side of it ; gentle traction on the knot, the forefinger of the other hand being- placed close near the point of exit in the skin, to prevent disturbance of the ncAA-ly formed lymph, AAfill then suffice to draAV the suture out. When Avire has been used, the bends in it should be straightened as much as possible before pulling- them out. In the continuous suture, or glover’s stitch, the thread is carried on fr-om stitch to stitch, instead of being detached fr-om the needle, and fastened off as in the interrupted suture. The stitches are placed nearer together, so that the adjustment of the edges is more intimate. Either metallic or silk tln-cad can be employed ; in AvithdraAving it, each loop must be divided, and each piece remoA’ed separately, as in the common stitch. Ibis foim of sntuic is not aci} often employed, but it may be used in simple incisions of some length, such as those that are left after the removal of tumours in the trunk, or arc required in ovariotomy, in Avounds of the intestines, &c. The quilled suture is employed Avhere the sides of a deep longitudinal avouiuI are required to be kept in contact throughout, as in ruptured pciinaium. It consists of a scries of double inteiTiipted sutures ol stout silk oi A\hipcoic