446 SPECIAL FliACTUliES. fragments. Atter the knee is flexible, lateral hinged splints may be worn with- out the elastic strap. The limb that exists is usually perfectly strong, and good for any exercise except jumping. In Simple Comminuted Fractures of the Patella, the result of direct blows or kicks, the fragments are not much separated, and union takes place readily by bone. In these cases, after subduing inflammatory action, which usually runs high, the starched bandage may be applied, and the knee and fr-agments thus both kept immovable. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Patella, especially if occasioned by bullet-Avounds, and opening the knee-joint, are cases for im- mediate amputation. MTecrosis of the Patella as the result of fractm-e is rare. In one such case which was under my care at the Hospital, the patient, a middle-aged man had met with an ordinary transverse fracture of the patella, which united by ligament; two years after the accident, and without any fr-esh injury, he came to the Hospital, with necrosis of the outer half of the upper fragment, which was completely detached, and lying in a cavity bounded and shut off from the joint by plastic matter. I cut dmvn upon and removed the necrosed fragment, which appeared to constitute about one quarter of the patella. Ho cause could be assigned for the necrosis, except defective vascular supply to this part of the bone. Fractures oe the Boxes oe the Leg.—The bones of the leg are fr-e- quently broken, the fracture of the fibula being, as a rule, at a higher level than that of the tibia. When both bones are broken, the fracture is generaUv situated near the junction of the middle and lower thirds, and the lower fragments are, in the majority of cases, di’awn upwards and behind the upper by the action of the gastrocnemius muscle ; so that the edge of the upper fragment of the tiliia projects luider the skin and may perforate it. In some instances, however, the direction of the fractme is such that the lower frag- ments ride over the fr’ont of the upper. The tibia, though a stronger bone than the fibula, is most frequently fractured, owing to its being more exposed and less protected by muscles, and receiving more directly all shocks connnuni- cated to the heel. The fractures of the upper part of this bone are usually transverse, and result fr’oni direct Holence ; those of the lower part are oblique, and proceed from indirect violence. When both bones are broken, the usual signs of fr’actiu’e, such as shortening, increased mobility at the seat of injiu’y, and crepitus, render the diagnosis easy ; but when one bone alone is broken, it is not always a very simple patter to determine the existence of the fracture ; the sound bone, acting as a splint, prevents displacement, and keeps the limb of a proper length and steady. If it be the tibia alone that has been broken, the fr-actin-e may be detected by running the finger along the subcutaneous edge, imtil it comes to a point that is somewhat irregular, puffy, or tender, where by accurate examination some mobihty and slight crepitus may be detected. T\Tien the fibula alone is broken, the thick layer of the peroneal muscles, OA'erlayiug its upper two thirds, render the detection of the fracture difficult; but in the lower third it is easy, by attention to the same signs that occur in fractured tibia. In the Treatment of simple UncomiJlicated. Fractures of the Iieg,