624 INJURIES OF THE GUEST. CHAPTEK XXVIII. —♦— INJURIES OF THE CHEST. "WousTDS or THE Chest-Walls are not of sncli frequent occun’ence now as formerly in the days of duelling. The soft tissues may, however, be con- tused, torn, or cut. The thoracic muscles, especially the pectorals, are some- times ruptiu’ed by force applied to the arms when abducted or raised above the head. The great pectoral muscle has been torn in a boy who attempted to drop from hand to hand three rungs of a ladder at a time. Extravasation of blood, and even inflammation and abscess may result from such injury. Subpectoral abscess may occm from injury of the pectoral muscles, or of the areolar tissue beneath, or it may form without any apparent cause. The pus must be evacuated early. This may be done by making an incision through the skin and then tearing through the fibres of the muscles, after the manner recommended by klr. Hilton for the emptying of submuscular or deep-seated abscesses. Abounds of the chest derive their principal interest and importance from the accompanying injmy of the lungs, heart, or larger blood-vessels. When the soft parietes alone are wounded, the injury differs in nothing fr’om similar lesions in other parts of the body ; except that it is usually slover in healing. This is especially the case when the muscular parietes are fruTowed by buUets. If the Surgeon be in doubt whether the cavity of the chest have been pene- trated or not, he may endeavom- to ascertain this point by careful examiuation with the finger ; but he should never introduce a probe ; it is better for him to wait and to be guided in his opinion by the symptoms that manifest them- selves, rather than, by probing the wound, to run the risk of converting it into what he dreads—a penetrating wound of the chest. INJUBIES OP THE LUNG. Contusion oe the Lungs may happen from severe blows on the chest, as from falls from horseback or kicks in the side. It may be comphcated vff fractm-e of one or more ribs, usually at the posterior part. But this is n necessarily a concomitant of the injiuy. The symptoms are as foUows. Mter the receip^t of the blow, the patient is seized with diflflciilty in breatoig, w hic is ant to become paroxysmal, so as to resemble asthma. There is expectoi - tion! at first of mLs rmtingod with blood. On listening to the crenitation with some dulness on percussion, will be foimd towaids t posterior pkrt of the lung. After some days, or possibly wteeks j. seized with a tolerably copious expectoration of daik, eoa^i t],’a„,,u<nn and and the sputa may be tinged for some time afterwards. Ihe dyspnoea 1