EXCISION OF TUMOURS. ^*7 more or loss infiltrated with small round colls. The tubes resemble gigantic ciypts of Lieborkiihn. By the microscope alone it is not always easy to dis- ’Fi" 315—Colunmar Epitlielioiua of transverse Colon (18S cliam.). One tube is cut obliquely, the others “hransvei^” tte epithelium is irregular in shape and size, and is sometimes arranged in more than one layer. The stroma is fibrous, containing small round ceUs. tinguish these tumours from simple papillomata covered with columnar epithe- lium, in which the bases of the papiUie on section give the appearance of tubes. The in-egularity of the structure and the gTeater cell-infiltration of the con- mective tissue would lead to a suspicion of malignancy. These tumom’S give rise to secondary growths in the glands, and sometimes •even in the hver, in both of which situations they maintain their characteristic features, so that a tissue, looking like crypts of Lieberkiihn irregularly massed together, may be found in the lymphatic glands or in the hver. In the lymphatic glands of the groin these tumours may break down and ulcerate, as in the case of common epithelioma. Except in the rectum, the diagnosis of this cancer is impossible on aecount of its seat, and it seldom occms in such a situation as to admit of any treatment. EXCISION OP TUMOUBS. In describing the different forms of encysted tumoiu’, the operative procedimes necessary for their removal have been adverted to. We may now conveniently consider the steps that are generally necessary for the extirpation by the knife of solid tumom’S from the soft parts. In the removal of tumours, the ftrst point to be attended to is the arrange- ment, shape, and direction of the necessary incisions. These should not only have reference to the size of the gTowth, extending well beyond it at each end, but must also be planned with due regard to subjacent parts of importance. As a general rule, they should be carried in the direction of the axis of the limb or part, and parallel to the course of its principal vessels ; they must not only extend over the whole length of the tumour, but also a little beyond it at each end ; no cross-cuts should be made, if they can be avoided, and this may usually be done by attention to the proper position and extension of the linear incisions. In most cases, no skin should be removed, a simple cut being made ; but if the intcgumeiital tissues be either very abundant and loose, or else