195 INFECTION OF WOUNDS. 111 other instances, again, the decomposition of the woimd is predisposed to, though not actually detennined, by the state of the patient’s constitution. In the vast majority of cases—when it occins—^it is the direct result of the infection of the Avound from without. The decomposition of the fluids of a wound, in Avhatever way occasioned, is a bar to its healing by “the first intention ; ” it is productive of unhealthy suppination—certainly of delay— possibly of constitutional contamination and general blood-poisoning. The infection of wounds takes place thi-ough the medium of the air. If a Avoimd be AA'holly subcutaneous, Avithout any breach of the superimposed integuments, through AA'hich the air can gain entry, no infection can take place in it. Hence the difference betAveen the liability to septic diseases— to those diseases, such as pyaemia, hospital gangTeue, &c.—of a person who has sustained a subcutaneous AA'ound, hoAA'Cver extensive, as, for instance, the comminated fracture of a bone, AA’ith much laceration of soft parts, and of one Avho has suffered fr’om an open Avound of a con-esponding character—as a compoiuid fracture. The question necessarily arises, Hoav does the air infect ? And this great question includes three minor ones, viz., Is the air itself the infecting material ? If not, is it the medium or the vehicle of the conveyance of infection ? And if it be the A'ehicle, does the infection occur from gases or by solid particles can’ied in the air ? The ausAA'er to the first question involves the AA'hole subject of auto- and helei-o-fjemsis of spontaneous generation and that by germs—a subject that has occupied the attention and has exercised the ingenuity of scientific men of all ages and aU countries, fr-om the time of Aristotle, and AA^hich appears to be as far fr-om its ultimate solution now as it Avas when he AATote “ De Auimaliiun Generatione.” The discussion of this subject would be altogether out of place here ; and for its consideration I must refer the reader to the aatItings of Pasteur, Lister, Bastian, and TyndaU. ^ So far as our 2)resent piu-pose is concerned, it may be sufficient to state that Lister has shown conclusi\’ely that j)utrescible fluids, such as urine and milk, may be exposed for months to the action of filtered air AAuthout undergoing decomposition, and that air dej)rived of extraneous bodies is not per so, and ii)de|)eiidently of other agents or conditions, sufficient to occasion decomposi- tion. That absolutely piu-e air may not be the cause of decomj)osition in healthy but putrescible animal fiuids, apjjears to be established by these obser- Aabions. But it has not been proved, audit by no means follows, that the decomposition of morbid secretions, such as are generated by inflamed tissues, 01 deA eloped in diseased conditions of the blood, may not be hastened by exposure to the oxidising influence of even perfectly pm-c air. In fact, ecompositions of pus as manifested by the iirescnce of Bacteria Avill take p ace in certain ^ conditions, as in subperiosteal abscess, and elseAA'here m places into Avhich no air has been admitted or is admissible. That le spontaneous development of putrescent sanies or pus in certain states 0 the system may take place on the surface of Avounds, there can be no toiut; and the action even of chemically and microscopically pm-e air on uci fluids, the product of diseased tissues, and already, ab oriqine, nu- icscent emmot be other than to fiivour and hasten decomposition. But ‘‘Ithougb It must be admitted that the decomposition of sanies and pus o 2