FORMATION OF INTERNAL COAGULUM. 295 tliougli iuiy inflammation set up in the external coat may cause an cttusion of lymph inside the vessel, yet that which is required to repair the breach occasioned by the di^■ision of the internal and middle coats, is the prin- cipal source of the plastic deposit. The changes that take place in the \ essel after the application of a ligatime require, however, to bo more carefully studied. The Formation of the Internal Coagulnm in the proxhnal end is the most important part of the process. For the fii-st four-and-tAventy hoiu’S after the apphcation of the ligatui'e there is little, if any, ap- pearance of this. Usually about this time, if opportunity offer to examine an artery in the human subject, it AAdll be foimd that a small nodule of lymph, of a yellowish or bufif colour, has been deposited in the bottom of the cul-de-sac that is formed by the retraction and contraction of the cut ends of the inner and middle coats, so as to close up the extremity of the artery. About the second or third day, this coagulum will be fomid to have assumed a conical shape (Fig. 118), the base being made up of de- colorised fibrine and exudation-matter, firmly adherent rig. iis.-Femoiai Ar- . T ,, T . 1 tei-y, fifty-six liours to the lower end of the artery ; the middle and terminal after Amiiutation. portions of the coagulum, composed of fibrinous clot, and of a dark piuple or maroon colour, lie loose and floating in the ai’tery, ex- tending up as high as the fii’st collateral branch. About the tenth day, the end of the vessel Avill be found to be tightly and firmly contracted upon the enclosed plug (Fig. 119), the dark-coloiued portions of Avhich now begin to midergo a process of absorption. Between this period and the sixth week, the contraction of the vessel and the absorption of the free part of the plug go on simultaneously ; the shrunken clot becoming permeated Avith neAV blood-A’essels, which communi- cate Avith the vasa vasoriim, while the interior of the artery becomes darkly stained by imbibition of the colouring mat- ter of the coagulum. (Fig. 120) Lastly, the plastic base of the plug becomes in- ‘"'Artmy len"“da’8 COipOl’ated Avith the COlltigUOUS arterial Kg. I20.-Femoml Ai-- after Amputation, coats, and Undergoes eventual transfer- Amputatiom'^'^''* mation into fibro-cellultu tissue. In some cases (Fig. 121), there is an imperfect formation of the internal plug, or CA'en total absence of it, and not unfi-equently secondary liEcmorrhage occurs as a consequence. This condition may arise either from want of plasticity in the blood, from an absence of due adhesive action, or from the coats not haAung been properly cut through. In other cases, in consequence of suppurative action being set up in the artery, a kind of disintegration or liquefaction of the plug takes place after it has been formed. This I have seen