io6 INFLAMMATION. CHAPTER IV. INFLAMMATION. The study of tLe inflammatory process is one of the most difficult on which the Surgeon can enter; but the labour required to master its details is well bestowed, inasmuch as an acquaintance Avith its nature, symptoms, and progress, giA'es an insight into a greater part of the Science of Surgeiy. The Management of inflammation as it affects different tissues and organs, and as it in retinm is affected by A'arious concomitant circmnstances, comprises a gi’eat part of the duties of a Surgeon. The Theory of Inflammation is a pimely physiological and pathological study ; and, howeA'er interesting its investigation may be, yet, as the discussion of this subject belongs rather to the domain of General Pathology than to that of Practical Surgery, it cannot consistently be entered upon here otherwise than in mere outline. To gain a full acquaintaiice with the present state of our knowledge regardmg the intimate natru’e, origui, and progress of the inflammatory process, the student must consult such books as the works of Sir James Paget and of BiUroth on “ Surgical Pathology,” and the essays of Drs. Burdon Sanderson and Simon, and those observers in this countiy and abroad Avho have made inflammation the subject of special investigation. . , n . Before describing inflammation, it will be necessary to notice briefly tAvo forms of disturbance of the circulation Avhich, Avhile they always attend the inflammatory process, may exist independently of it. These are the two foms of local hypermmia, knowm as Congestion and Determination of Blood ; the former consisting essentially in retardation and the return of blood fmn a part: the latter, in increased flow of blood to a part. COHGESTIOH plays an important part in surgery : it occasions serious striic rural changes, and may run into inflammation. It is a true hjp.eramna, an excess of blood. The blood in the affected part is not only greatly incieased in quantity, but it circulates languidly and is of a darker colour than natiira The arteries are, at most, of their normal size, perhaps even contiacted t veins and capillaries are greatly distended by the . the circulation in the congested part becomes completely an-rested, stagn Symptom!—Congestion of an external part may be the changes it induces in the colour, the size, the feel the J pcratiire, and the functions of the part. The colour o a conges c from purplish red to a dusky broAvn ; its size is increased ; it pits uiidir the pressure of the Anger. The patient ^iten cons ous a heavy, dull, aching sensation in it, scarcely amounting o ^ teiuM with uneasiness. The temperature is never above, but often below, natural standard, and the functions are lessened in actiA-ity.