TBEATMENT OF WOUND OF THE THROAT. 607 recovciy in all chose instances in which the wonnd is suicidal, disposing him to the occiuTence of low forms ot inflammatoiy mischief. Treatment.—The same general principles are required as in the manage- ment of those wounds of the throat that do not open up the mucous canals in this region. HmmoiThage must be an-ested by ligature of all the bleeding- vessels,\-hether arteries or veins, so that no oozing or trickling into the wound may take place. In some cases the haemorrhage consists principally of general venous oozing which cannot be stopped by hgature, the patient drawing a large quantity of blood into the air-passage through the wound. In these circiunstances I have found it useful to introduce a large silver tube into the aperture in the windpipe, and to ping the Avound around it. So soon as the bleeding has feirly ceased, the plugs and the tube must be removed. The edges must next be brought together by a feAV stitches introduced at the sides, anefby attention to position, the head being fixed by tapes as described at p. GOo. I think, with Liston, that in these cases the wound should never he closely served up, nor stitches introduced into the centre of the cut. If the centre of the integuments be closely draAvn together, coagula may accumulate behind them, in the deeper parts of the wound, so as to occasion a risk of suffocation ; and, as the wound must eA^entually close by granulation, no material advantage can possibly be gained by this practice. There is an exception, however, to this rule of not using stitches in the central part of the woimd in cut throat. In cases in which the trachea has been completely cut across, a stitch or two on each side of the tube is necessary, in order to prevent the wide separation of the two portions that AA'ould otherwise take place, owing to the gi-eat mobihty of the larynx and upper end of the windpipe. In order to lessen the liability to infiammation of the lungs, the patient should be put into a room, the temperature of which is raised to about 80° Fahr., with a piece of lightly folded muslin acting as a respirator laid OA'er the Avound. So soon as the cut surfaces begin to granulate, w^ater-dressing may be applied, and the edge of the Avound brought into apposition by strips of plaster, and a compress if necessary. During the treatment, the principal danger proceeds from inflammatory affections of the chest; these must accord- ingly be counteracted by the temperature in Avhich the patient is jAlaced, and by the adoption of antiphlogistic measm-es. It must, however, be remembered that the mental depression, and the bodily exhaustion from loss of blood, that arc common in these cases, do not allow A’ery active treatment. The administration of food in these cases abvays requires much attention. As a general rule, the patient should be kept on a nom’ishing diet, Avith a moderate allowance of stimulants. If, as not uncommonly happens, the food- passage be opened in consequence of the woxmd extending into the mouth, the pharynx, or the oesophagus, it is of course impossible for the patient to swallow, and the administration of nourishment becomes A^cry difiicult. This is best accomplished by means of an elastic gmn catheter passed through the mouth into the gullet or stomach. This is easier than passing the instrument throuo-h the nose, and much better than introducing it through the Avound. In this ■Nvay a pint or more of the strongest beef-tea or soup, Avith Liebig’s “Extract of Meat,” mixed with tAvo or three eggs, and having an ounce or tw^o of brandy added to it, should be injected regularly night and morning, until the