AMPUTATIONS. 40 surface of the flap, hut always towards the parts to be remo'S'cd. After marking- out the flap with the point of the knife, the Surgeon takes the edge of the skin lightly between the finger and thmnlj of his left hand, and raises it fi-om the parts beneath. The portion of the flap Avhich is thus raised is therefore at right angles to its former position on the limb, and the knife must also be kept in a similar direction, or its edge AA'ill be turned towards the base of the flap, and by scoring its under surface Avill greatly increase the dangers of sloughing. There should be no hiury about raising a flap by dissection, as under the influence of auccsthetics the lengthening of the operation by two or three minutes is a matter of but little importance. It is better to spend one or tAvo minutes more OA'er the operation, than to haA'C to re-amputate on account of sloughing of the flaps. In 1839, Liston proposed a combination of the double flap and circular ojAeratioiis, which greatly improved the shape of the stiunp of the circidar method, and somewhat increased the ease of the operation. Taa'o semilunar incisions, AAdth their conA'exities doAnmards, are made through the skin from side to side of the limb : the flaps are then dissected up so as' to expose the muscles somcAyhat higher than the angles of union of the flaps : and the operation is completed as in the ordinary circular method. This method of operating is especially indicated in muscular parts, such as the arm, thigh, or leg. This is more pai’ticularly the case AALere the amputation is primaiy, as then the muscles often retract to so great an extent that it is difficidt to judge of the 2)rbper length at AA'hich to cut them. The adA’antage] of this proccdime over the ordinary flap or the circular operation is very great in certain circum- stances. In both cases, but more especially in flap-operations on stout muscular subjects, a large pad of muscle is apt to be left in the stnmp. This, which at first sight might appear an advantage, as an additional covering to the bones, is a decided disadA'antage, inasmuch as it often projects through the retraction of the skin coA'ering it, and is apt to slough and interfere Avith the proper union of the flaps. This pad is also disadvantageous after cieatrisation is completed, as at fii-st it foims a soft, flabby, and bulbous end to the stiunp, instead of a firm hard cicatrix ; and eventually it must Avaste and midergo fibro-cellular transformation, before the stiunp is finally consolidated. Hence, a stump that at first appears to be covered by a good cushion of soft pads, Avill, if these be chiefly muscidar, gradually shrink and Avaste, and may at last become