AWTJiAVASATIOJV WITHIN THE SKULL. 557 fungus-looking ' mass of cerebral matter protrudes from the wound. The period after the receipt of an injury at which this protrusion takes place, varies from a few days—eight or ton—to several weeks. It has been remarked by Guthrie, and the observation has been fully confirmed, that hernia cerebri is more likely to take place through small than largo apertures in the cranial bones. This tiunoiu- increases rather rapidly, pulsates synchronously with the brain, and may shortly attain the size of a hen’s egg, or even become larger (Fig. 251). In its composition and structure it varies. In some instances it is composed chiefly, if not entirely, of extravasated blood ; but the true fungus cerebri is composed of softened and disintegrated cerebral matter, infiltrated with lymph and blood. The softening of the brain, with red discoloration, extends for some little distance under the base of the tumour. The mental condition of the patient is in many cases not much disturbed at first, there being merely some Fig. 251. Hernia Cerebri following Compound Comminuted Fracture of Right Paiietal Bone. degree of cerebral irritation. Speedily, however, stupor comes on, and deat.r eventually occurs from encephalitis, followed by coma, consequent on the inflammatory effusions that take place within the skull. Treatment. The treatment of this complication of fractm’es of the skull is commonly extremely unsatisfactory. If the tumour be shaved off, as is usually recommended, it generally sprouts again until the patient is destroyed by irritation and coma conjoined. In some fortunate cases, however, the removal of the tumour is not followed by its reproduction. All that can be done is to slice off the growth on a level with the brain ; to apply a pledget of dry lint, and a compress^ and bandage over the part, thus allowing it to granulate and the wound to cicatrise. _ Extravasation of Blood within the Skull commonly occurs in all mjimes of the head accompanied by laceration of the brain, and in many