274 ARREST OF ARTERIAL IREMORRUAGE. ill the ReiracHon of tlio artery within its sheath, in the ConIrarMon of the ent ends, and in the Formation of a Coagulum around its exterior, and in its interior. When an artery is ent aeross, it immediately retracts within its sheath, the interior of which is left rough and uneven. Through this uneven channel the blood is projected, either flowing freely externally or being extravasated into the neighboin-ing areolar tissue, aecording to the direction and state of the Avound. As the blood flows over the roughened surface of the sheath, it becomes entangled in the flbres, and tends to coagulate upon them ; tliis tendency to coagulation is favoimed by the increased plasticity of the blood as it floAVS, and by the diminution of the propulsive force with AA'hich it is carried on. By the conjoined operation of these causes a coagulum is formed, AA'hich, though lying within the sheath, is outside the artery, and extends beyond it; and is hence tenned the external coagulum. It is usually somewhat cylindrical, and often looks like a continuation of the vessel, being at first perforated by a hollow track, through which the stream of blood conthmes to flow. As it increases in size, the hollow becomes closed by the concentric deposit of coagulum. The hoUow track leading fr-om the siu’face of the coagulum to the wmund in the artery, has been especially described and dwelt upon by Amussat. This coagulum acts mechanically by blocking up the end of the artery, and also by compressing the vessel wdthin the sheath; thus constituting the first barrier to the hmmorrhage. The formation of the extemal coaguhnn is thus in a great measure dependent on the retraction of the artery AAithiu its' sheath. The next changes that take place in the artery, and, indeed, that arc to a certam extent simultaneous with those that have just been described, are, its Contraction and the formation of Internal Coagulum. The Contraction of the cut artery commences immediately after its division, and may of itself be sufficient to close a small vessel. Thus, dining an operation, we may often see an artery Avhich, when first cut, spouted out a stream of blood as large as a straw, gTaclually contract in size luitil it ceases to bleed, owing simply to this contraction. In a larger artery this jn'oeess is not sufficient to completely close the vessel, but merely gives its cut end a conical shape, diminishing greatly the aperture in the artery, perhaps to the size of a pin-hole. In proportion as the open end of the artery is obstructed by the cxtei’ual coagulum and contracts in diameter, the blood is propelled Avith more and more difficulty through it, until at last it escapes in but a small and feeble ^ stream, or even becomes completely stationary, alloAidng its fibrine to be deposited m a slender coagulum, which plays a more important part in the peimanent than in the temporaiy aivest of the bleedhig. To the formation of this Internal Coagulum the contraction of the vessel is subservient. This coagulum is slender and conical, the base being attached to the margins of the apertime in the vessel, and the apex extending upwards. It has no point of attachment, except by its base, the apex and sides being perfectly free; at first it consists entirely of a film fibrinous coaguhmi, no exudative matter entering into its composition at this period, though important changes subsequently occur Avithin it. The importance of the internal coagulum as a temporary means