852 VENEREAL DISEASES. tatioiis in the system ; and from the fact that, when properly administered iii heallhy constitutions, it may almost to a certainty bo expected to dissipate the ^•arious symptoms of constitutional syphilis. 'When it fails, as it doubtless does in many cases, to prevent the constitutional infection, or to eradicate this if it have appeared, the failure may usually be traced either to want of care in the administration of the medicine, or to the existence of an impaired state of the patient’s health ; though doubtless, in some cases, the most judicious em- ployment of mercury is unsuccessful in aiTesting the progress of syphilis. The essential practical point in the treatment of primary syj)hilis by mercury is to keep the patient under a prolonged and mild course, rather than a short and active one. The gums may be “ touched,” but profuse salivation should l)e avoided. In connection Avith the administration of mercury in syphilis, therefore, various questions present themselves, the proper detennination of which is of the first importance. These haA’e reference to the State of the Patient’s Constitution, the Condition of the Sore, and the Mode of Administration of the Remedy. The State of the Patienls Constitution influences materially the propriety of the administration of meremy. In ordinary healthy constitutions, it may always be safely employed ; but, if the powers of the system have been broken by excesses of any kind, if the patient be of a strumous habit of body, if he be in-itable, feverish, or excited, it must be given with great caution, or should be vdthheld until these states of the system are modified or removed. It is especially by administering meremy to strumous and cachectic patients^ or to those Avhose power's have been broken by habitual dissipation, that so much mischief residts ; and that it occasionally gives rise, by acting as a depressing agent, to local sloughing, or to some of the low forms of secondary syphihs. Mode of Administering Mercury.—The particular preparatwn of onercurij to be given, the length of time diming which it should be continued, and the rules to le observed during the merciulal course, are all matters that influence greatly the result of the treatment. Meremy may be administered in form Avays : by the mouth, by inunction, by subcutaneous injection, or by fumigation. When it is to be given by the mouth in early syphihs, and Avhen it is desirable to produce but a moderate effect upon the system, I prefer the iodide of merem-y, in doses of one grain three times a day ; or the Plummer’s pill, in five-grain doses twice or three times a. day, will be found extremely useful Avhen the constitution is someAvhat irri- table. If it be desirable to produce a rapid effect upon the system, five grams of blue pill may be given night and morning. The other prepai’ations of mer- ciu’Y are not, I think, required in the primary form of the disease. When it is required to produce a moderate effect, especially in someAvhat delicate persons, without irritating the system or inducing much salivation, the iodide io ppTininlv In bfi nrefeiTed to all other preparations.