715 PURULENT DEPOSITS. metastatic abscesses,” as they arc often termed, is the most marked feature of pyiemia. The suppurations usually contain a somewhat thin and oily-looking pus ; sometimes, however, it is thick and laudable. The more oily-looking thud, though opaque and yellow, and closely resembling true pus, will, on jiiicroscopic examination, bo found to difter from this in the absence of the true nucleated pus-corpuscles, though it contains an immense numljer of granular cells (Fig. 12). After removal it often forms a firm fibrinous coagulum. These purulent collections vary greatly in size and in situation. They are found in foiu- localities, ^'iz., in the viscera, in the areolar and muscular struc- tures, in the serous membranes, and in the joints. They are most frequently met with in the lungs and pleime, usually in one pleural sac only ; then in the joints : next in the intermuscular areolar planes. Pyrnmic abscesses differ from ordinary piu’ulent collections, not only in the pecuhar character of the pus that they contain, but more particularly in the rapidity wuth which they form, a few days commonly sufficing for them to attain a large size. This, mth their very widely spread character, and the insidious manner in which they occur, often with few if any local signs—the tissues, as it were, breaking down without any inflammation—constitute the distinguishing features of these collections. • The visceral abscesses vary in size fi'om a pin’s head to a walnut; in many cases the organs affected are studded vdth them. These collections are most frequently met with in the limgs, being seated at the posterior part and on the surface of these organs, or in the interlobular fissures ; they are usually sur- rounded by a darkly inflamed and condensed layer of pulmonary tissue, and sometimes a zone of pulmonary apoplexy can be recognised immediately in contact with the puriform fluid. Not unfrequently they are seated in the midst of a large patch of lung in a state of low or congestive pneumonia, or the whole of the posterior part of the lung may be in this condition studded with small pytemic abscesses. The organ that is most frequently affected next to the hmg is the liver. Here, also, the abscesses are usually small, numerous, and suiTouuded by an inflamed or congested areola of hepatic substance. In some cases, however, hepatic pymmic abscess is single and of considerable size, perhaps as large as an orange. I have seen purulent collections in the spleen; but they are rare here, in comparison to the organs just named. They may occur in other organs ; as in the prostate, testes, and brain. When the pus is infiltrated into the areolar tissue and muscles of the limbs and trunk, it forms immense diffuse collections of a thin serous matter, com- monly mixed with shreds of the areolar membrane of the part, having no boundary of limiting fibrine. These collections are most ft’equent, perhaps, in the axilla, down the flank and about the back, in the iliac fossa, thigh or calf, and may cither be confined to the subcutaneous, or extend to the deep inter- muscular, areolar planes in these regions ; or they may even form in the muscular substance itself, being diffused between the fasciculi, which are •softened and disintegTated. Most commonly the presence of these collections 13 indicated by patches of cutaneous or erratic erysipelas, and by a douo-hy me ematous, and boggy state of the superjacent integuments. tbP deposits of lowly organised lymph in and upon seious and synovial membranes are very common ; the pleura, the arach-