INJURIES OF VEINS 265 CHAPTER XIII. —t— INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. INJURIES OP VEINS. Veixs are very commonly wounded suicidfdly, accidentally, or in surgical operations ; but, unless they be deeply seated, their injuries are seldom attended by any serious consequences. Occasionally subcutaneous rupture or laceration of a vein takes place from a blow or strain. In such cases extensive extravasation of blood AviU occiu’, Avhich, however, usually undergoes absolution in a few iveeks ; but it may suppurate, or take on itself the changes described at page 18G. This accident is most commonly seen in the saphena vein. There are three sources of danger in open wounds of veins : 1, Loss of Blood ; 2, Diffuse Inflammation of the Vessel; 3, Entrance of Air into the Circulation. 1. A A’ein is known to be wounded, ivhen dark blood floAvs in a rapid and uniform stream fr’om the seat of injury. If the A’essel AA'Ounded be one of con- siderable magnitude, or in close proximity to the centre of the circulation, the flow of blood may be rapidly fatal, more especially if its escape be faA'Oured by the dependent position of the part. The Hsemorrhage fr-om a wounded vein may, if the vessel be superficial, be aiTested by position, and the pressure of a compress, with a few turns of a roller. If the vein be one of considerable size, as the internal jugular, or if it be so situated that pressiu’e cannot be brought to bear on it, it may require the application of a ligature ; but this should, if possible, ahvays be avoided, inasmuch as it is apt to occasion dangerous inflammation of the A^essel. I he womid in a A’ein is healed by a slight inflammation taking place aboiit^ the lips of the incision, and giAnng rise to the formation of a distinct cicatrix AAithout occlusion of the vein. 2. In some cases, fr-om the irritation of the simple wound, and in others fr-om the application of the ligature, a Diffuse Inflammation of the Vein takes place, which usually proA'CS frxtal. The variety of phlebitis aaoII be lesciibed Avhen Ave come to speak of the different kinds of A'enous inflam- mation. o. The Entrance of Air into Vemsi, being a subject of much importance, AA'ill be discussed in a subsequent chapter. INJURIES OP ARTERIES. Aiterics may be bruised, tom, punctured, or cut. ONTusiox.—A slight bruise of an artery is not attended by any bad con- Boqnencc,, b„t, if the contnsiou bo sewe, obligation of the