SPECIAL FRACTUPES. 442 Fig. 191.— l-’racturecl Pa- tella ; Side view of Limb, straight. iind tlic separation bohreen the fragmcntB (Figs. J90, I9I), which is much in- croascl l,y hemhng the knee ffig. ]!)2), and the inability to stand or to raise le iiijiiie indicate wliafc has happened. When it has been s ]n-oduced hy direct violence, the muscles being at rest, there is little or no separation, even though the fracture be transverse. In such cases, and when it is longitudinal or comminuted, the crepitus and mobility of the ft-agments point it out. Immediately on the occm-rence of a transverse fracture of the patella, the knee-joint swells up owing to the effusion of blood into the synoidal membrane. This swelling sub- sides after a few days’ rest. Mode of Union. — When the bone is broken trans- versely, it very rarely indeed unites by osseous matter, in consequence of the wide se- paration of the fragments ; there are,, however, two or thi-ee cases on record in which this kind of union has taken place in these fractiu'es. In the longitudinal and comminuted fractures, osseous union readily occurs, the fragments remaining in close ajiiiosition. In the majority of cases of transverse fracture, the fragments remain separated by an interval varying fi’om one-fointh of an inch to an inch; but in some instances the gap is much gi’eater, amoimting even to fom* or five inches. l^Tien the separation does not exceed an inch and a half, the gap is usually liUed up by fibrous or ligamentous tissue, uniting the fragments firmly. In some of the cases, however, in which the separation between the fragments does not exceed this distance, and in most of those in which it extends beyond it, W. Adams has found that the fractme is not united by any plastic matter that has been thrown out, but that the fragments are bound together simply by the thickened fascia which passes over the patella, with which is incorporated the binsa patellm. Adams finds that the aponeurotic structure thus uniting the fragments may be arranged in different ways. Thus it may pass between the fragments, and be adherent to the anterior periosteal surface of both ; or the connecting aponemosis may be reflected over, and be adherent to, both the fractured surfaces ; or, lastly, (and this is the most frequent form of arrange- ment,) the connecting aponeurosis may pass from the periosteal sinface of the upper fragment of the fractured surface of the lower one, to which it becomes closely and firmly united. In the majority of cases, when united by aponem'otic tissue, the fragments ga^De somewhat towards the skin, coming into better con- tact posteriorly. Thus it would appear that a patella fractured transversely may unite in two ways ; most fi’equently by the intervention of thickened aponem’otic structure, and next, by a ligamentous or fibrous band. Of 31 specimens in the London museums, examined by Adams, it was found that in 15 aponeurotic union had taken place, in 12 ligamentous union, and in the remaining 4 the kind of union could not be determined.