833 SIMPLE OR SOFT CHANCRE. 11101/1.1 111 l^lUlUO 4/V/ V £ .. . 1.1 * 1 .. may ultimately differ, they all present the same characters during their early The prof^ress of a chancre that has been artificially inoculated on any part of the cutaneous surface is as follows, and its study will seiwe to elucidate what takes place in other circumstances. During the first twenty-four hours after the introduction of the specific pus into the skin on the point of a lancet, we find that some inflammation is set up around the puncture, which becomes hot, red, and itchy. About the third or fourth day, a pointed pustule is produced, which is at first deep-set, but becomes on the following day more superficial, with some depression in the centre, resembling rather closely a small-pox pustule ; on close examination, this will be found not to be a true pustule, but rather a mass of epithelial scales and pus not included in a distinct wall. On the fifth day, it has become hard at the base, apparently from the infiltration of plastic matter; and on the sixth it has usually dried, forming a small round scab, and leaving an ulcer which presents the typical characters of a true chancre, being circular and depressed, with a foul greyish surface which cannot be cleansed, sharp-cut edges, a base more or less indurated by inflammation, and an angry-looking red areolar aroimd it. This is the typical chancre, and these are the appearances that every true venereal non-syphilitic sore on the skin will present about the fifth or sixth day after inoculation ; from this time it may diverge more oiTess completely fr’om these characters, but will yet, if inocu- lated at any time during the poisonous stage, produce an ulcer that will run the specific course up to the same period, after which it may in its turn again deviate into one or other of the unusual forms that chancres occasionally assume. Varieties.—These have been described under various denominations by the numerous writers on these affections. The foUeiving classification wiU include them all ;—1, the Simple or Soft Chancre, or Chancrous Excoriation ; 2, the Phagedsenic Chancre; and ?>, the Sloughing Chancre. As H. Lee has observed,, each of these varieties of chancres is associated with a particular variety of inflammatory action. Thus the sofl is the suppnraiive form ; the phagedcomo,. the ulcerative; and tlie sloughing, the gangrenous. The particular form of the sore is in each case determined by its situation, and the constitution of the patient or that of the individual furnishing the contagion. 1. Simple or Soft Chancre, or Chancrous Excoria,tion, is certainly that form of the disease which is most commonly met with in London at present, from its excessively contagious character. It consists of one or more small sores, of a very shallow character, resembling rather an abrasion, Avith shai-p-cut edges, somewhat circular in shape, and having a tawny greyish or yellowish surface, with a naiTOW red areola around the edge : in many cases at- tended with much heat and itching. These sores are usually seated on the cleft under the corona glandis, or about tlie glans, the whole of which may be studded by them. In fact, one peculiarity of this chancre is its tendency to multipli- cation on the contiguous structures. In other cases, the sores invade the^ VOL. I. „ „ 3 H