761 ririLLOMA: COHNS AND WARTS. ■'I’lio tiimoui-s which pass under the name of papillomata are usually livuertrophies of the normal papilla of the part on which they grow, auc nre covered by the variety of epithelium normal to the part, ihe papi as 0 Avhich they are composed differ from those normal to the part m size, shape •md vascularity. Thus, instead of merely microscopic papilhe, such fis liormal to the skin, we may have growths sometimes reaching the size and pie- sentiiio- the appearance of the head of a good-sized cauliflower. Instead of simpkpapilhe, we may have branched growths snbdisiding aginn and again and connected with the parent tissue only by a narrow stalk Ihe vessels of these «n-owths are always abundant, and frequently dilated to a consideiable size “idle connective tissue forming the basis of the papillm is more or less crowded with sniaU round cells, according to the rapidity of the growUi. Sometimes the deeper layers of the epitheliimi are darkly pigmented. Malig- nant tumours of various kinds when seated on a free surface may assume a papillary form, but these must not be confounded with papillomata. On the other hand, a papilloma may by im-isible degrees merge into an epithelioma or adenoid cancer, as the case may be, the distinction betAveen them sometimes not being possible, even Avith the help of the microscope. It may, hoAAeAei, be broadly stated that so long as the tmnour maintains a simple papillary form, the epithelium being purely superficial, and shoAving no tendency to biuTOw betAvecn the papillie into deeper parts, and so long as the base of the tumom- is not composed of masses of small round ceUs infiltrating the siuTounding structures, Ave may at least hope that the tumoiu- is non-mahgnant. In other cases, such as the common Avarts or gonorrheal Avarts, we knoAV certainly that the gi’OAA'th is simple. Papillomata A'ary in hardness and softness, according to the parts on Avhich they grow, and the amount and nature of epithelium with Avhich they are covered. Thus the common corn or Avart, being thickly covered AA’ith horny epithehum is hard, while the papillomata of the rectum, being thinly coA'cred AA-ith columnar epithelium, are ahvays soft. The chief forms of papilloma are :—corns, simple warts, condylomata, and mucous tubercles, and some forms of polypi and villous tumom-s. Corns consist of an undue development of cuticle, with a slight increase of the vascularity of the subjacent cutis ; subsequently the papillae themselves become enlarged, especially when the irritation has been prolonged or consider- able. A soft corn is merely one Avhich from its situation is kept constantly moist, so that the ncAvly formed scaly epithelium, instead of forming a dense crust, peels offl leaving the vascular and sensitive papiUae but thinly covered. Warts afe the result of a primary hypertrophy of the papillae, accompanied by the formation of noAv vessels, and leading to a great increase in the deA'elop- ment of the epidermis, Avhich forms laminated strata, and sometimes produces masses Avith a concentric arrangement of the cells, closely resembling the nest- like stnictimes seen in epithelioma. The true warts are most commonly found on the skin, and are then often A'ery hard and horny ; sometimes they may develope a long hom-like groAvth. Softer varieties are, hoAveA'er, found on the muco-cutaneous surfaces, especially of the prepuce and vulva, and are usually of a specific origin. They may also occur on the mucous membrane of the mouth or soft palate. Warts may be the result of a local irritation, but in many cases they appear to depend as much upon some constitutional condition.