TUMOURS. 784 and elastic, Lcing more or less lobulated, growing rapidly, and having an •elastic and at last a senn-fluetuating feel. The skin covering it is nsna% at first pale and loose, with a large net-work of dilated veins spreading over it In sonae cases, however, at a very early period, a species of inflammatory integuments covering rapidly gi-owing encephaloid tnmoms. As the tumom- enlarges, the skin becomes adherent, diseoloured of ^ purple-brown tint, and at last ulcerates at one point. When once the tumour has made its way through, and is relieved from the pressure of the fascia and integuments, the rapidity of its growth becomes fearfully increased; and a large soft fungous mass, rugged, irregular, dark-coloured, and bleeding profusely rapidly sprouts forth, constituting the affection to which Hey gave the appro- priate term of fumjus Immatocles: ^Yhen this condition has been reached, ■death rapidly ensues fr-om exhaustion and hiemorrhage. Pulsation has been met with in particular forms of very vascular encephaloid ; in these cases also a loud bruit, synchronous with the pulsation and the heart’s action, has been detected, and may be heard on the application of a stethoscope. These symp- toms have been most frequently met with in encephaloid tumoiu’s connected with bone, and may, unless care be taken, cause the disease to be confoimded with aneurism. The constitutional cachexy in encephaloid occm-s early, and is well marked ; and secondary affections of the lymphatic glands and viscera, occasionally of a scirrhous character, often take jilace. No absolute and sharp line can be drawn between sciirhus and encephaloid ; gradually merge into one another. Thus the secondary tumours in the li'\ er are usually somewhat firm, and often go by the name of scirrho-encepha- loid. Again, a tumour which one Surgeon might call encephaloid of the breast, another might speak of as a rapidly growing scirrhus. Structure.—After removal, the tumour is found to be very vascular, dis- Fig. 307.—Encephaloid of Breast (IS8 diam.) Tlie largo-colled variety. Attention is dirceted to the imieU larger spaces in this than in Scin-lms. playing on injection a close net-work of vessels. On a section being made, it commonly presents a soft pulpy white mass, closely resembling cerebral sub-