^9° INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. divided edges are placed in contact; but if they be dissiinilar ve cannot expect it: e.g., muscle ivill not adhere to cartilage, nor tendon to bone. Local Treatment. ■There is no subject in Smgery which has undergone more frequent modifications than the local treatment of wounds, from the earliest periods of which we have record. The first, and perhaps the instinc- tive, method of treating a womid was to close it up at once and to exclude the air by fixing upon its bps a mass of clay, of chewed leaves, or of cow or camel’s dung. The admission of air was fru’ther jirevented by pom-ing oil into it, and its putretaction by the use of wine or balsams. At a later period in the histoiy of om- art, tents of various kinds were used, and employed up to a very recent period, in order to keep it open and thus to prevent the injmious accumulation in its ca^dty of discharges, which there might decompose and putrefy. The closiu-e of the wound—the exclusion of air—the prevention of putrefaction in its discharges by the use of spirituous and stimulating antiseptics, or by facilitating the escape of the secretions, ivere the means employed from the earliest antiquity ; without, however, that recognition of those principles involved in the use of the various medicaments and appliances adopted, which it has been reserved for a later and more scientific age to determine and elucidate. And it is still these four gi’eat principles—the closiu-e of the wound—the exclusion of air—the prevention of putrefaction—and the facihtation of the escape of discharges that guide us in the treatment of all wounds, however different, and in some respects improved, the means may be by which we endeavoim to caiTy them out. In the local treatment then of aU incised ivoimds, there are four chief indi- cations, viz., 1, the Arrest of Hcemorrliage ; 2, the Removal of Foireign Bodies ; 3, the Coa2)tation of the Sides of the Wound; 4, the Prevention of Decomposition in the Wound. These we shall consider more in detail. 1. Arrest of Haemorrhage.—If bleeding be general from the siu’face, it may be stopped by exposine to the air, by elevation of the womided part, by acemate and firm coaptation, by the pressiu’e of a weU-apphed bandage or of the finger over the spot, and by the use of cold or other styiitics ; if it be arterial, by ligatme, torsion, or acupressm-e. In making choice of a htemo- static, preference is to be given to one that will interfere the least with miion by the first intention. Thus, amongst styjitics, cold, in the shape of ice or of rags VTung out of cold water, is to be preferred to others of the same class, such as the perchloride of iron, which are all more or less caustic and in-itant. Again, torsion should be employed when it can be done with safety, rather than the hgaturc, which, by its retention in the woimd, offers an obstacle to the occurrence of primaiy union. In short, the simpler the remedy the better. 2. The Removal of Foreign Bodies, such as dirt, pieces of stone and glass, spicula of bone, coagulated blood, &c., is best effected by allowing a stream ot water fr’om a sponge or irrigator to fall upon the jiart, all rough handling ot the wounded tissue being avoided as much as possible. Shaiqi and angular bits imbedded amongst the tissues should be removed by forceps. Aboi'c all, this cleansing of the wound is to be done thoroughly, and once for all; a com- ])aratively insignificant body, if overlooked at this time, may effectually prei cut adhesion by setting up siqipnrativc action, whilst disturbance of the voimd