654 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND BELYIS. torn across a catheter cannot he passed, and the nrine finds a difficulty in escaping, relief not being afforded by the perimeal incision, and the bladder becoming overdistended, this organ should be tapped through the rectum, in the way that will be described when we come to speak of diseases of the nriiiary organs. ^ But tai^ping through the rectum should not be done before the perinasal incision is made. VAC4INA AND Rectum.—Foreign Bodies are occasionally thnist forcibly into or impacted in the vagina or rectum. When a foreign body, such as a stick, or a broom-handle, or the leg of a chair, is thrust forcibly up the rectum by a person falling on such a body, two dangers may result; either extensive laceration of the sphincter ani and the perinEeum, with hiemorrhage ; or trans- fixion of the'gut and wound of the peritoneum, with consecutive inflammation of that membrane. The consequences of such an injury present nothing veiy special, and require to be treated on ordinaiy principles. If in the fall the foreign body have been forcibly thrust into the vagina, there ivill be danger of injury to the bladder or peritoneum ; but the chief danger will result from laceration of the labium, and free htemorrhage fr-om this source. I have several times seen enormous quantities of blood thus lost. This htemon-hage is best an-ested by plugging firmly with lint soaked in a solution of the percliloride of iron, and by the pressiu'e of a bandage. A variety of things, such as pieces of stick, glass-bottles, gallipots, tumblers, &c., have been introduced and impacted in these canals. Their extraction is often very difficult, in consequence of the swelhug of the mucous membrane over and around them, and the depth to which they have been pushed. In order to remove them, the use of hthotomy or necrosis forceps may be required. In some cases the foreign body produces ulceration into the bladder ; and it has been found to transfix the wall of the canal in which it is lodged, and, by penetrating the peritoneum, has speedily occasioned death. A remarkable case of this kind occiUTed in my practice, in which a cedar pencil, five inches long, and cut to a point, had been forced up by the patient herself, a young woman, through the posterior wall of the vagina into the abdominal caA'ity. Here it transfixed two coils of the small intestine, and after being fixed there for eight months, I extracted it by an incision through the anterior abdominal wall, midway between the umbilicus and Poupart’s ligament, where its point was engaged in the fascia transversahs. It had occasioned repeated attacks of peritonitis ; and, after extraction, death resulted from that cause. Laceration oe the Peeinhdum.—The perinteiun is occasionally ruptured during parturition. The extent of the laceration varies groatly, and influences materially the ultimate issue of the case. In some cases there is merely a shght rent at the fourchette ; in others, the whole perinteum has given way as far as the sphincter ani ; in a third case the sphincter is also torn ; and in a fom-th the rent has extended into the recto-vaginal septum. The woi*st cases are those in which the periineum has been torn, and the recto-vaginal septum destroyed by sloughing from prolonged impaction of the foetal head. In such cases, the loss of soft tissues and the existence of dense cicatricial bands render complete union by operation very uncertain. The length of time that has elapsed since the occurrence of the injury is of little consequence. It is as easy to repair a perimeum that has been lacerated