ERYSIPELAS. 690 University College Hospital during tlie past four years, for which time the records of such cases have been very accurately kept, tends to confii-m this idea. Thus we find that during the years 1871-2-3-4, 151 cases of erysipelas ■were treated in the Hospital, including those admitted for the disease and those affected by it while undergoing treatment for other affections. Of these, 34 occurred during the cold months of December, January, and February; 43 during March, April, and May ; 22 during the hot months of June, .July, and August; and 52 diming September, October, and November. It is an interest- ing fact, that during these four years only one case arose diming the month of ,J Illy. It has frequently been asserted that erysipelas often breaks out on the setting in of cold easterly winds or on sudden atmospheric changes. Observa- tions were made diming one year (1872) at University College Hospital with the view of testing the truth of this assertion ; but, as they were not continued after that year, the time over which they extend is not sufficient to exclude chance from the results. As far as they went they tended to show that mild damp weather, inth westerly ivinds, is a more powerfid predisposmg cause of erysipelas and other hospital diseases than cold dry weather with easterly winds, that is to say, exactly the reverse of the popularly received opinion. The subject is one of great interest, and is well worthy of frmther investigation. Erysipelas often becomes epidemic as the result of peculiar, but at present in- explicable, conditions of the atmosphere. Thus at University College Hospital the number of cases occurring during the four years before mentioned was as follows : in 1871, 29 ; in 1872, 29 ; in 1873, 2G ; in 1874, 67. And not only was it at University College Hospital that this excess of erysipelas was noticed, but every similar institution in London suffered in the same way. It will usually be found that, when erysipelas is very abundant among the in- patients of a hospital, similar cases present themselves for treatment in the out-patient department, and at the same time it isusuaUy noticed that phlebitis of varicose veins, epidemic catarrh, acute tonsillitis, and other allied affections prevail. Epidemic erysipelas may vary in its type. Thus the epidemic of 1874 was chiefly of the cutaneous variety, and was accompanied by comparatively slight tendenc/to gangi-ene or sloughing ; while that of 1872, in Edinbmgh, was of a violent phlegmonous tyiie, usually attacking the subcutaneous tissue and leading to extensive diffuse sloughing and suppmation. _ But not only is erysipelas epidemic ; it is also contagious. The contagion erysipelas, after liariirg been repeateefty denied, can no longer bo contests Tmvers Copland, Bright, Niinneley, and others, have adduced cases in pioot of ils ciSns charier; and instances have repeatedly Men under my own observation, in which erysipelas, often unfortunately fatJ has been communicated to the servants, nurses, or relatives of patients ^ ' A remarkable proof of the contagious nature of erysipelas • fm. nf 18^1 in one of my wards at University College Hospital. I lie Ho“pftaUmcfti;”ftrftL Iry c.es of the hind —l^n^ rvhA on the 16th of Jannaiy, at abont noon, a man ^ ^Mdin'g tU precantions, however, two 1