AD DENJJ A TO VOLUME /. 952 Pagk 10. 3. —HO SPITALISM. The foultj hygienic conditions that arc still too frequently met with in hospitals arc alike a cruelty to the patient and an injustice to the Surgeon. I he cruelty to the patient consists not only in exposing him to an increased ^ance of death—or as it is commonly termed “ to a higher rate of mortality” from septic diseases that are preventable, and that are the direct outcome of the defective hygiemc arrangements of the institution—but in subjecting him to a prolonged and imperfect convalescence, either or both of which conditions may be taken as the measure of the neglect of sanitary aiTangements in a hospital. Bub want of attention to sanitary hospital arrangement is equally an injus- tice to the Surgeon. His reputation suffers by an increased rate of mortality amongst his patients from causes which, though preventable, are altogether beyond the sphere of his control; an undue burden of anxiety, responsibihty, and of care is throvm upon him by the necessity under which he lies of waging a constant Avarfare against septic hospital influences. If it were not for erysipelas, pytumia, septica3mia, and “ blood-poisoning ” in its protean forms, the duties of a hospital Siu’geon would be comparatively light. In order to combat these pernicious influences, he is driAnn to the emjiloyment of elaborate, compheated, and expensive methods of “ Antiseptic ” treatment Avith the view of destroying those septic germs which, conveyed by the air and implanted on the wound, act as poison to its tissues and ferments to its fluids. He is compelled to accomplish by artificial means those results Avhich the architects and managers of hospitals ought to secure by proper attention to the construction of the building, its A'entilation, and general management. If hospital hygiene Avere properly understood and efficiently practised, those foul and filth-begotten diseases, jAytemia and hospital gangvene, wonld disap- pear, and “ antiseptics,” in the absence of septic influences, Avould become uimecessary. Under the present system we begin at the Avroug end. Instead of preventing the development of septic contaminations by proper hygienic aiTangements, we alloAV the pollution to take place, and then attempt to prevent infection of the wound by ingeniously devised methods of protection, and by destroying the impimties in the septic-laden atmosphere by means of chemical agents. In fact, cleanliness in its broadest sense is the best and most efficient “antiseptic” ; where it exists none other is needed. It is superior to all chemical antiseptics in this, that it prevents the development of the septic poisons, instead of alloAving them to be generated and then destroying them.