INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 584 •absolutely necessary that the mind should bo kept as much as possible at rest. Iho patient, feeling hiinselt unequal to the fatigue of ljusiness, becomes conscious of the necessity of relinquishing it, though not perhaps Avithout great I’cluctanco, and until after many ineffectual efforts to attend to it. There are two remedies Avhich may be employed Avith much advantage in the earlier stages of spinal concussion, Avith the A'icAV of soothing the irritation of the iierA'ous system. One is cldoral-hydi’ate, to procure sleep ; the other, bromide of potassium, to allay irritability. During the early period of concussion of the spine, much advantage will usually be derived from dry cuijping along the back on each side of the verte- bral column. In some cases, I have seen good efPects follow the application of ice-bags to the injured part of the spine. At this period, I believe, medicine is of little sei’vice, beyond such as is required for the regulation of the general health on ordinary medical principles. I^Tien the Secondary Effects of Concussion of the Spinal Cord have appeared, much may often be done not oidy for the mitigation of suffering, but for the cm-e of the patient, by carefully conducted local and constitutional treatment. Rest, as in the early stages, must be persevered in ; but, in addition to this, counter-irritation may now be advantageously employed. The various forms in Avhich this means is familiar to the Surgeon—stimulating embro- cations, mustard poultices, blisters, and setons or issues—^may be successively used. With regard to internal treatment, I know no remedy in the early period of the secondary stage, when subacute meningitis is beginning to develoj) itself, that exercises so marked or beneficial an influence as the perchloride of mercury in tincture of quinine or of bark. I have seen this remedy produce the most beneficial effects, and have known patients come back to the Hospital to ask for the “ perchloride ” as the only medicine from Avhich they had Rerived advantage. At a more advanced period, and in some constitutions in which mercury is not Avell borne, the iodide or the bromide of potassium in full doses will be found highly beneficial, more especially Avhen there are indications ot the presence and the pressure of inflammatory effusion. When aU signs of inflammation have subsided—A\hen the symptoms have become those of paralysis, whether of sensation or of motion—but more espe- cially in those cases in AAhich there is a loss of motor power, Avith a generally debilitated and cachectic state, cod-hver oil, stiychnine, and iron may be advantageously employed. But I would j>articularly caution against the use of these remeches, and more especially of strychnine, in all those cases in which inflammation is still existing, or diu’ing that period in any case in which there are evidences of this condition. In such circumstances the admi- nistration of strychnine is attended by the most prejudicial effects, increasing materially and rapidly the patient’s sufferings. But in the absence of inflfmi- matory irritation it Avill, if properly administered, be found to be most usefiil, more particularly in restoring lost motor power. In those cases m which strych- nine may be advantageously administered, great benefit will also be derived from Avarm salt-Avatcr douches to the spine, and gah anism to t le im is. At a more advanced period, Avhen general cachexy has een iiu uce , am