6i I FOliEIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-FAS SAGE. there is necessarily much more risk than if it be soluble in, or capable of clisintegration by, the mucus of the air-passage. So long as the foreign! body is allowed to remain, the joatient is in imminent danger, either i’rom immediate and sudden sulFocation, or from inflammation at a more remote period. The danger depends greatly upon the length of time during which the body is allowed to lodge. Of G2 cases which I collected in 1850 (4 of which had fallen under my 0!vn observation), I found the time that the foreign body was allowed to remain in, and the result of the case, stated in 49 instances. PERIOD OF RETENTION. NUMBEROF CASES. 1 RE- 1 COVERED. DIED. Less than 24 hours .... 8 fi 2 Between 24 and 48 hours 4 3 1 Between 48 hours and 1 week 13 0 7 Between 1 week and 1 month 8 4 4 Between 1 month and 3 months 3 3 0 Between 3 months and 1 year 6 4 2 More than 1 year . " . 7 4 3 Total 49 30 19 From this it would appear that, if the patient escaped the danger of the immediate introduction, the greatest risk occurred between the second day and the end of the fii-st month, no fewer than 11 patients out of 21 dying durino- ^is period; and then that the mortality diminished until the third montlT fr-om which time it increased again. ’ The cause of death also varies according to the period at which the fatal Tcsult takes place. Dm-ing the first twenty-four, and, indeed, forty-eight boms, 1 _ appens fr-om convulsions and sudden asphyxia. Diu-ing the first few weeks fr IS f^t to occm- from inflammatory mischief within the chest; and after some months the patient will be carried off" by marasmus or phthisis. ► pontaneous expulsion of the foreign body, usually in a violent fit of cough- reLd ' of Philadelphia finds that there are 49 cases on Of tp ’ "PO'^t^^oously expelled, the patient recovering, whi h?r fit of coughing, ke period diu-ing frtomlv! f cair-passage before it is spon- taneously expeUed varies from a few minutes to many months or years • in one Z; ZrMa r -"“'I"'*'? ™ ejected “Z ejpnlsZ spontaneous Occident is always Tory serious, and hence requires the trachea and thus operation of opouiiig highly successful ^ o/co »f the foreign body, arc usually in 8!) no operation’ was ““‘’o olosely, it appeared that effected by the efforts of n of the foreign body being y tne efforts of nature. Of these 28 died, and 10 lived. In the E E 2