913 INFLAMMATION OF THE LYMPHATICS. CHAPTER XXXIX. DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS AND THEIR OLANDS. INFLAMMATION OP THE LYMPHATICS. Inflammation of the Lymphatics, Lymphatitis, or Angeioleucitis, is a diflFase or ’erysipelcatous inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. In it, ac- cording to Tessier, the lymph coagulates, forming a rosy clot, which obstructs the interior of the vessel; the walls of which, at the same time, become thickened, softened, opaque, and surrounded by a quantity of infiltrated areolar tissue. Symptoms. This disease may be idiopathic, when it is closely associated with eiysipelas ; but more commonly it is set up from the irritation induced by an infected abrasion or wound. During the progress of an ordinary injury, the patient is seized with rigors, followed by febrile reaction, and attended, perhaps, by vomiting or dian-hoea. These symptoms often precede by twelve or fourteen hom’s the local signs of the disease, but more commonly accompany them. ^ On examining the part it will, if superficial, be seen to be covered by a multitude of fine red streaks, at first scattered, but gradually approximating to one another so as to form a distinct band, about an'inch in breadth, rimning from the part affected along the inside of the limb to the neighboui’ing lymph- atic glands, which may be felt to be enlarged and tender. The band itself feels somewhat doughy and thickened. Sometimes one lymphatic can be felt hard and isolated hke a piece of whipcord. There is usually more or less oedema of the limb, from^ the implication of the deeper layers of vessels and their ob- struction by the inflammation. Along the course of the inflamed absorbents erysipelatous-looking patches not unfrequently appear, and coalesce imtil they assume a considerable size, and constitute a distinct variety as it were of erysipelas In some cases the glands are affected before any other local signs manifest themselves owing probably to the deeper seated lymphatics havioo- been firat implicated; or possibly by the direct absorption of and deposit iS _ em of some septic matter that constitutes the primary source of the infective mfl^mation ; and not uncommonly throughout the disease the inflammation continues to be confined principally to this set of vessels, giving rise to o^-eat and brawny swelling of the limb, but without much if any siipeificial iXTs gradually subside into the asthenic fonn, •/ TP j The Diagnosis of inflammation of the lymphatics has tn Po mcri^ • cm phlebitis, the diagnosis is oas; hj attention to the supeLal reLss of 3 N