342 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. Union.—The mode of iiiiiou of these injuries has been well described by Paget. When a tendon is cut or torn across, an ill-defined mass of nucleated blastema of a greyish-pink tint is effused into the areolar tissue and sheath, between the cut ends. About the fourth or fifth day this has become more defined and fibrillated, forming a distinct cord-like uniting mass between the ends of the tendon ; in the course of two or three more days, this mass has become tough and filamentous; the tissue gradually perfects itself, until it closely resembles tendinous structm’c, though for some time it remains dull white and more cicatricial in appearance. The strength of this bond of union is maiwellously great; Paget found that the tendo Achilhs of a rabbit, six days after its division, required a Aveight of 20 lbs. to rupture it. In ten days the breaking weight Avas 56 lbs. Dmded muscles unite in the same way as tendons, but less quickly, and by a fibrous cicatricial bond. Treatment.—The principle of treatment in these cases is extremely simple : it consists in relaxing the muscles by position, so as to approximate the divided ends ; and in maintaining the limb in this position for a sufficient length of time for proper union to take place. If muscular relaxation be not attended to, the uniting bond AviU be elongated and weak, and perhaps altogether inefficient. Stiffness and weakness are often left for a length of time—for many months, indeed—after union has taken place ; A'ery commonly, OAving to the consohdation of the dmded tendon to its sheath, and of this to the neigh- bomlng soft structures. Warm sea-water douches, followed by methodical friction, aatIII greatly tend to restore the suppleness of the parts. ATieii the tendo Achillis is ruptured, the best mode of treatment consists in the application of an apparatus formed of a dog-collar placed round the thigh above the knee, from Avhich a cord is attached to a looj) in the back of a shpper; by shortening this cord, the leg is bent on the thigh, and the foot extended, so that the muscles of the calf become completely relaxed. After this simple apparatus has been used for two or three weeks the patient may be allowed to go about, wearing a high-heeled shoe for some Aveeks longer. The Quadriceps Extensor of the Thigh may be torn away from the insertion into the patella, or its tendon may be ruptured about an inch above this. Such an accident occurs in the same Avay that a patella is broken across, namely, by a A'iolent muscular effort to prevent falling whilst the knee is semi-flexed. Under these circumstances one of three things Avill happen ; the tendon of the quadriceps, the pateUa, or the hgamentmn pateUae, will give way. More commonly the patella is broken across ; next the tendon gives way, and least frequently the hgament. When the tendon gives way the signs are uu- mistakeable. The patient falls on the ground, is imable to raise or to stand on the injm-ed limb, the gap occasioned by the retracted mnscle can rarely be felt, and the knee-joint rapidly swells up. _ The Ingamentum PateUE§ is rarely ruptm-ed. MTien it has given Aiay the pateUa is draAin up and a deep gap is left below it. The treatment is the same as in the case of the r up timed tendon. r i The Treatment is that of fractured patella, viz., elevation of the hmb, p- ported on a back sphnt, in the extended position at an angle AAnth the body. This must be continued for scA'eral weeks, AA'hen the patient may e a oaac