U\JUliIES OF THE AJW02IEN AND PELVIS. The situation of tlic injury in tlie hypogastric region, thcsuper- AGution ot collapse tollowccl by intense burning pain in the abdomen and pelvis, with inability to pass the urine, or, if any have escaped from the urethra. Its being tinged ivith blood, are usually sufficient to point to the natm-e of the accident. If, m addition, it be found on introducing a catheter that the bladder is contracted and empty, or that but a small cpiantity of bloody urine escapes, the Surgeon may be sure that this organ has been bui-st. In the case of gun-shot injury, the escape of m-ine which generally takes place through the track of the bullet iviU afford incontestable evidence of the mischief tluit has been produced. AVhen the bladder is ruptiu-ed through that portion which is covered by peritoneum, the urine escapes into the pelvic cavity ; there, however, it does not diffuse itself, but remains hke a feculent extravasation in the neighbom’- hood of the apertine of escape, restrained by the general pressure of the ■abdominal and pelvic viscera. This localized extra-vesical extravasation may be emptied by the catheter thimigh the rent in the bladder, hence the escape of urine is not incompatible mth ruptiue of the bladder. This important jiractical point is well illustrated by the following case. A man was admitted into the hosjiital under my care, who had sustained ruptiue of the upper and j30sterior wall of the bladder by falhng down staus ; Avhen admitted he was profoundly collajDsed and semi-unconscious. The abdomen was swollen, tender, tympanitic in fient, dull in the flanks. On passing a catheter the bladder was found to be empty and contracted, but with a little gentle manipulation the point of the instrument could be passed thieugh the laceration in the posterior wall of the bladder, and a large quantity of clear urine was drawn off'. For two days the patient seemed to be doing well. The catheter was taken out to be cleaned, coidd not be introduced afterwards, little mine escaped, and the patient died of peritonitis. In the Treatment, the most important indication is the prevention of fiuther extravasation by the introduction of a fidl-sized elastic catheter into the bladder. This must be tied in, and should be left open, vith a vulcanised India-rubber tube attached, so that the mine may dribble away through it as fast as it accimiulates. Opium should be given, as in aU severe abdominal iujiuies, to prevent peristaltic action, and to prevent the diffusion of the mine thi’ough the abdominal cavity. If the rupture has taken place in a part of the bladder uncovered by peritoneum the danger is from minary infiltration. If •any sign of extravasation appear externally, free and deep incisions should be made into the part, so as to facihtate the early escape of the effused fluid and the putrid sloughs. I cannot but consider all active anti-phlogistic treatment •as out of place in these injmies, never having seen the shghtest benefit follow its employmeirt. The only chance that the patient has, if once extensive extravasation have occurred, is that there may be sufficient power left in the constitution to throw out a barrier of lymph that will limit the diffuse and sloughing inflammatory action set up ; and the prospect of this would certainly not be increased by the employment of depletory measures. There will also be so great a call iqDon the jiowers of the system at a later i^eriod, after slough- ing has fairly set in, that a supjDorting or even stimulating plan ot treatment will rather be required.