26 GENERAL REALARKE ON OPERATIONS. as in the forcible flexiu-c of stiffened joints, the av ulsion of toe-nails, ex lac ion o teeth, &c. ; or in those cutting operations which are completed j a single strake of the scalpel or bistoury, as the opening of an abscess or the division of a fistula. Nitrous Oxide aud Ether.—As has already been stated, each of these agents popcsses certain disadvantages—the auaisthesia jiroduced by nitrous oxide not being sufficiently persistent to admit of the performance of prolonged opera- tions, that of ether being slow of production and often attended by a species of delirious excitement. By the successive administration of the two ames- thetics, these uiconveiiiences are removed, aud the advantages of the two secured. ^ The plan adopted by Clover consists hi the rapid induction of .anassthesia by the nitrous oxide, and the maintenance of this hisensibility by the use of the vapoiu- of ether. In this way one anesthetic supplements the ■othei, and the safety of the one is combined with the persistence of the ■other. Bichloride of Methylene, originally suggested as an anesthetic by Dr. Bichardson, has lately been extensively used, especially at Guy’s Hospital and at the Moorfields Ophthahmc Hospital. Its adi'antagcs over chloroform are said to be greater rapidity of action, complete and rapid recovery, and the absence of muscular rigidity during administration, and of unpleasant after- symptoms. ^ Over nitrous oxide it has the advantage, that the amesthesia can be maintained for any length of time. Though said to be safer than chloro- form, its use is not perfectly free from danger, more than one fatal case having afready occiUTcd ; aud if used for operations lasting more than two minutes, it seems quite as liable to cause ’vomiting. , To produce rapid ansesthesia, it is necessary that the vapour be inhaled in as concentrated a state as possible, all luinecessary admission of air being avoided. For this piupose an apparatus has been devised by Mr. Eendle of Guy’s Hospital, consisting of a leather ■cylinder, open at one end and shaped so as to fit closely over the mouth and nose, the other end being dome-shaped and perforated so as to admit sufficient air for respiration. In the interior of this cylinder is a loosely fitting flannel bag, which overlaps the open end and is secured by an elastic band. The administration is performed as follows. One drachm of the bichloride of methylene is spruikled on the mside of the flannel bag, and the leather cylinder is immediately placed over the face of the patient ; at first it must not fit accurately to the nose and mouth, but, as soon as the patient can bear it, it must be pressed firmly down so as to exclude all air, except such as passes through the bag. By these means anassthesia sufficient for opening an abscess is, usually produced under one minute, passing off" as rapidly as it Avas induced. If the administration be prolonged xmtil the drachm of the bichloride is com- qiletely exlxausted, the amesthesia usually lasts about fix'e minutes ; the patient on recoA’cring being able to AvaUv away Axith only a slight feeling of giddiness. If necessary, a second drachm may be used to prolong the effect ; but the after- S3mptoms then resemble those of chloroform, though iu a someAvhat minor ■degree. The signs of danger during administration are liA'idity of the face, •and cessation of the pulse and respiration. If they occur, it is best, according to Dr. Bader’s adA’ice, to ]fiace the patient at once iu the reemnbeut position on the left side, AA'ith the tongue Avell pulled forward, Avhen the symptoms Avill