SYMPTOMS. 7^^ reaclr outlet. Wounds of veins, of bones, and of joints, are the injuries that are especially apt to be followed by this disease ; and in the puerperal state it is often met with, probably as the result of uterine phlebitis. Phexomena.—Pyamiia is characterised especially by two series of pheno- mena : 1. A peculiar train of Constitutional Symptoms attended by a state ot <n-cat depression of the powers of the system ; ih The formation of Absces^ses, and the occurrence of diffuse inflammation in various parts of the body. The disease may be acute, subacute, or chronic. Most usuaUy it is subacute, and often chronic. Whatever form it may assume, the symptoms are essentially the same, differing only in degree. I. Symptoms.—The characteristic symptoms of pymmia consist of a sudden and severe rigor, preceded by a great rise in the temperatine ot the body, and followed by profuse and exhausting sweating. The invasion of the disease is as follows. During the period of an appa- rently ordinary febrile disturbance, the patient is seized with a rigor, usually very severe and prolonged. This is accompanied by a great rise in the tem- peratiue of the body, and is followed by profuse sweating, during which the temperature falls. The temperatm-e again rises even as high as 107° Fahr. The accompanying Diagrams (Figs. 2G8, 269), for which I am indebted to Dr. Ringer, who took them from patients of mine, vdll indicate this more clearly than any description. A single rigor only may occur, and the disease pass off. But more fre- quently the rigors are repeated at intervals of from 24 to 48 horns ; and, as the disease becomes established, they may reciu’ twice or oftener in the 24 hours. The temperature in pyaemia presents remarkable and characteristic fluctua- tions. It is iinitbrmly higher than normal, but rises above and falls in its general level in exact accordance vdth the development of the rigors. Wim- derhch observes that the rise of temperatiu’e in the first accession of pymmic fever is greater in a shorter time than in any other disease, and that the fall is equally rapid with the rise, and sometimes more so. But it does not, as a rule, reach the normal point, and usually ascends again long before this is reached. In some cases, however, the temperatine falls slightly below normal dining the profuse sweating following a rigor, as shown in the accompanying temperatme charts. Dr. Ringer, who has paid great attention to this subject, believes that the rise in the temperature precedes the occurrence of the rigors ; and he has been able to predict the approach of a rigor by noting a commencing rise in the thermometer. It is a remarkable circumstance that this actual and great increase in the temperature of the body should co-exist with a sensation of cold ; and there are sometimes actually two rigors during one continuous rise of temperature. As the rigor subsides the patient breaks into a sweat—first about the face and head, and then over the body. The sweats are usually very profuse, the bedclothes being soaked with perspiration. They are very exhausting to the patient. As soon as sweating comes on, the temperature begins to fall, and continues to decline until it reaches the uniform level, perhaps sinking in the earlier n'gors to the normal level or even below it. This low temperature, "uhen it occurs, is of very brief duration.