336 ENTllANGE OF Alii INTO VEINS. sucked in ; and, as has already been said, in quantity and force proportioned to the depth of the inspiration. In these circumstances, the mode of guarding against the introduction of air into the veins is obvious. The chest and abdomen should he so tightly bandaged with broad flannel rollers or laced napkins, as to preA'ent the deep gasping inspirations, and to keep the breathing as shallow as possible, consistently with the comfort of the patient. I have often found that the entrance of air into the veins of a dog could be aiTested by forcibly compressing the chest of the animal, so as to confine the respiratory movements ; but that, as soon as a deep inspiratory effort was made, the com- pression ha\dng been removed, a rush of air took place into the vessel. If, therefore, during an operation about the root of the neck or summit of the thorax, the chest be bandaged, as here recommended, the Surgeon must be careful not to remove the compression until the operation is completed, and the wound dressed ; for if this precaution be not attended to, the patient will most probably, on the bandage being loosened, make a deep inspiration, and the air may be sucked in at the very moment when all appears safe. These precautions are now rarely necessary, for under anmsthesia the respiration is usually slow, regular, and shallow. But I have retained a description of them partly on historic grounds, and partly because they may be necessary still in certain operations about the root of the neck—as the hgatin-e of the subcla’vian, in which some Surgeons do not employ anesthetics. Curative Treatment.—Different plans have been recommended by Sm- o-eons for the treatment of those cases in which air has ah-eady gained admit- tance into a vein ; but, from the very fatal nature of this accident, it does not appear that much benefit has resulted fr-om any of them : the recovery of the patient, in some of the cases, appearing to be rather due to the quantity of afr that was introduced behxg insufficient to cause death, than to any effort on the part of the Singeon. The two piincipal modes of treatment that have been recommended, consist in the suction of the air from the right auricle, and the employment of compression of the chest. Thus Amussat and Blandin advise us to introduce the pipe of a syringe, a female catheter, or a flexible tube, into the wounded vein, if it be large enough to admit the instrument; and if not, to open the right jugular, and pass it doxvix into the amide, and then to employ suction, so as to empty the heart of the mixtme of blood and air. At the same time that this is being done, we are, say they, to compress the chest as forcibly as possible, so as to squeeze more of the air out of the heart. Magendie and Rochoux advise suction alone ; and Gerdy recommends us to be content with compression of the chest. Warren (of Boston) directs us to have recom-se to Needing in the tempoi'al artery, to tracheotomy, or to stimulants, according to the condition of the patient. The indications that present themselves in the treatment appear to me to be threefold ;— i i • 1 To keep up a due supply of blood to the brain. . , i • 2. To maintain the powers of the heart until the obstruction in the pulmonic capillaries can be overcome or removed. i 3 To remove, if possible, the obstruction in the capillaries of the lungs. We shall now see how far the means already mentioned, viz., suction, com- pression, &c., can fulfil these indications.