33 DIET AFTER THE OFERATIOH. until it reach the normal standard. It not nnfi-cquently happens however, that a totally different course must be pursued. It is not my intention to enter upon the great question of the use and abuse of alcohol as an article of diet. But as a medicinal agent in severe smgical cases there can be no doubt of the gi-eat utility, indeed the indispensable necessity, of alcohol in some shape. If the patient have been much reduced by long-continued suppuration, or other depressing causes before the operation ; if he be old and weakly in constitution, or have been in the habit of taking a very considerable quantity of stimulants, it mil be absolutely necessary to adopt a tonic and stimulating mode of treatment. Indeed, in hospital practice especially, this is by ‘fm’ the most successful mode of treating patients after severe opeia- tions without it, many would have sunk, whom I have seen saved by the free administration of large quantities of brandy, vdne, porter, eggs, and beef-tea from the very time of the operation ; that stimulant being given to which the patient is accustomed in a state of health. This plan of treatment is also one of the best preventives of those low and diffuse forms of inflammation that are so commonly fatal in these cases ; and when they come on, I know no better remedy than the brandy-and-egg mixtine, freely administered. In all this, however, the Sm'geon must be guided by the patient s pulse, his pre'sdous habits, and the strength of his constitution ; and nothing requires greater iudgment than the administration of stimulants, according to these particulars. The great importance of attendiiig scrupulously to the general cleanliness of the patient, and to the ventilation of the ward or room in which he is lying, as the best means of preventing the occurrence of the lower forms of inflammatory mischief, need scarcely be insisted on, as these hygienic pre- cautions arc universally recognised as being of the first importance mider such circumstances. The remote effect of the major operations is a subject that requires investi- gation. Do people Avho haA'e undergone any of the greater operations, and Avho have recovered from the immediate effects, as a rule, live as long as those Avho have not sustained a mutilation ? I am disposed to think that they do not. When Ave reflect on the enormous number of persons who suffer amputa- tion of one of the limbs from injiuy, under the age of thirty, it is remarkable hoAv seldom one sees an old person in a hospital or elsewhere, who has lost a limb in early life. I am, of coinse, only speaking of amputations for injiuy. Those Avho haA'e undergone this operation for strumous or malignant disease, ngcessarily frequently die eaidy from rccuiTence of the constitutional vice in other parts of the body. So also with respect to lithotomy. Very many boys :arc cut for stone every year and recoA'er, but I scarcely recollect to haA'e ever met Avith a middle-aged adult aa'Iio had been operated on in childhood. The various Special Operations will be considered AA’hen treating of the several Injuries and Diseases for Avhich they are required ; but, as Amputations do not readily fall under any special head, being required for a vast variety of different conditions, it Avill be more convenient to consider them here. VOI,. T. c