39 DOUBLE FLAP AMPUTATIONS. ftboufc the hands and feet. The knives for the larger amputations should have smooth ebony handles, and be veil balanced. The back ot the blade should run straight to the point and be well rounded. The edge should taper oil towards the point, with a good convexity. The breadth of the blade should A-ary from | to f of an inch, and its length should be proportioned to the thick- ness of the limb to be remo\-ed. As a general rule, in order to make a good sweeping cut, so as to form a well-rounded and smooth hap, the blade should be in length equal to about double the thickness of the limb. The saiv shonld bo strong in the blade and back, so as not to bend in cutting. The blade must be of good breadth, and, in order not to hang as it works its way through the bone, must be somewhat thicker at the cutting edge than elsewhere. The teeth should not be too fine, and must be set crossivays. The artery-forceps may either be of the ordinary “ bulldog ” make, or may be broad toAvai’ds the point, so as to allow the knot more readily to be slipped over the vessel to be tied. Amputations by fiaps fashioned from the soft parts so as to cover the bone and form a AA'ell-cushioned stump may be performed in several different ways : by double flaps, by one long rounded flap, or by one long and one short square flap. The Double Flap AmpiitaHon is that which is usully practised, and that Avhich we shall fii’st consider. The two flaps may be made either by cutting fr’om without imvards, or by transfixion—cutting from within outwards. I generally prefer transfixion in fleshy parts, as the thigh or arm ; but cutting fr-om Avithout inwards will be found to afford the best result, and is indeed the only mode of forming the flap, in some situations m which the bones are natiu'ally thinly covered, as on the outer side of the fore-arm, the anterior part of the leg, or just above the ankle- joint, or where the soft parts have been AVasted by chronic disease. The flaps should be made by a steady SAA'eeping cut, so that the soft parts may be evenly and smoothly dfrided. Their length must of com'se be proportioned to the thickness of the limb ; and on this point no positive direction can be given, except that care be taken that they be not cut too long nor too short. If they be cut too long, too much muscle AAdll be left on the stump, and the flap itself is usually badly fashioned and pointed. Should the Siu’geon feel that he has made this mistake, the Aviser plan will be at once to round off the ends of the flaps. Should they haA'e been cut too short, the soft parts must be forcibly retracted, and the bone cleared by cfrcular SAveeps of the knife, and saAAUi as high up as possible. The flap farthest fr’om the A'essels, as that on the outer side of the thigh or ahn, should be cut first. In making the imier flap, great care must be taken to wind the point of the knife Avell romid the bone, so as not to transfix and split down the vessels, but to cut them as long as possible. As a general rule, the less loose muscle that is left on a stump, the better : hence, Avhere there is an equal thickness of soft parts round the bone, as in the arm and thigh, the flaps should be cut short, Avell retracted, and the bone cleared by circnlar SAveeps of the knife as high as Jiecessary. The bone thus lies at the bottom of a conical holloAV beyond the angle of junction betAveen the flaps, and there is less chance of a conical stump bcijig left. In cutting a flap fr’om Avithout iiiAvards, it is of the greatest importance to remember that the edge of the knife must never be turned tOAvards the under