INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 200 doubt that any method of treatment having for its ol)ject the exclusion of the air and tlie destruction of these organic particles ol^g■ht to prevent absolutely the formation of pns in the Avound. But, as we know that suppm-ation may take place in situations into Avhich no air has been admitted, we cannot look upon the atmosphere as being the sole occasioning cause of this action, howcA'er innch it may faA'Oiir it; and it must be referred in such cases to the influence of other agencies, amongst which certain morbid conditions of the blood, con- stitutional derangement of the patient and intensity of inflammation are amongst the more importipit and direct. It is undoubtedly these disturbing influences that prevent the complete success of the “ Antiseptic Method” in a certain number of cases. Theoretically it is perfect; in practice its success is not constant. It would be successful in all cases, were the healing of a woimd a pimely local act under the sole influence of local conditions of tissue and of treatment. But this is far from being the case. The repair of a ivomid is a process that is materially influenced for good or for caTI by the state of the patient’s constitution. When that is healthy and pure, the wound Avill readily heal under any favoimable local conditions, and imder none more readily than under the antiseptic method. When the blood is A'itiated and the constitution depraved, no mere local method of treatment can be trusted to as an infallible preA'entiA'e of local morbid action. But eA'en in such imfavourable cases as these, AA’here suppiu'ation and sloughing are rather the consequences of a bad constitutional than of a morbid local condition, the antiseptic method, by lessening the tendency to decomposition and to putrefactive or fermentatiA'e changes in the woimd, and by rapidly remoA'ing and destroying noxious materials and effluA'ia, AviU do more than any other plan of treatment to limit the morbid local action that results from the continued presence in and aroimd the Avoimd of septic matter, and to prevent those gi’ave constitutional sequences that inevitably result from its absorption into the system, and thus to avert the A'arious forms of blood-poisoning that are often occasioned by Avoimds in an unclean, suiipmating, or sloughy state. It must be remembered that the employment of antiseptics, has no effect on tAvo of the most important causes of suppuration in Avounds, viz., tension and the irritation of movement; and, moreoA'er, it may itself be a cause of suppu- ration if too concentrated an antiseptic be allowed for any length of time to remain in actual contact A\'ith the raw surface. A tight stitch may cause inflammation and suppuration as readily under antiseptic ch-essing as under any other mode of treatment. If free exit be not proA'ided for the necessary serous discharge Avhich flows from the smface of a AA'Ouud dining the first tAventy-four or thirty-six hom’S, its accumulation will give rise to tension, and suppination Avill certainly foUoAV, although the pus may be perfectly free from any odour of decomposition. Drainage of the Avoimd is, therefore, an essential part of the antiseptic treatment. Bough handling, unnecessary disturbance, or tlie unaA'oidablc movements due to the situation of some AVOunds, Avill also give rise to the formation of pns, AA'liatover mode of dressing be employed. As the “germ-theoiy” constitutes the basis of the antiseptic method. Lister Acry justly contends that success iu its practice can only bo looked for by attention to mimitiie and details, and extreme care in manipulation. One .single septic germ making its Avay to the surface of the AA'Oimd Avould, in