TU2WURS. 75S III. TUMOUBS WHICH KEBEMBLE IN STRUCTURE, MORE OR LESS PERFECTLY ONE OP THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES OP THE BODY A. Myoma. Muscular Tumour.—Tliese tumours are of two classes ; those containing striated and those containing non-striated muscular fila-c. Striated muscular fibre has, at present, only been found in a fcAv congenital tumours, and is merely a pathological curiosity. Non-striated muscular fibre is found in abundance, as before-mentioned, in the so-called fibroid tumoui's of the uterus (see p. 732), and of the prostate, but it is always associated with large cpiantities of fibrous tissue, so that the tumour is more properly spoken of as a myo-fibroma. The older tinnours are found to be composed almost entirely of fibrous tissue, the muscular fibre-cells haying undergone atrophy. Pure myomata have, in very rare cases, been found in connection Avith the oesopha- gus. Fagge has recorded an interesting case of this, which was accidentally discovered after death, at Guy’s Hospital. It gave rise to no symptoms during life, although the tumoim Avas as large as a good sized egg. Myomata are ahvays non-malignant. B. Neuroma. True Neuroma. Nervous Tumour.—The term neuroma is chnically applied to any tumoiu- groAving on a neiwe, whether it be a fibroma, myxoma, sarcoma, or true neuroma. The term should strictly be hmited to those tumours in Avhich there is an actual new groAvth of nervous tissue. Tumom's containing ncAvly formed nervous tissue are rare. Neuromata com- posed of gTey matter (non-medullated fibres and g-anglionic tissue), haA'e been described, but they are so infinitely rare, that they need no fm-ther mention here. The vast majority of true neinomata are composed of bundles of meduUated or Avhite nerve fibres, interlacing Avith each other, or sometimes rolled up into masses, and separated by connectiA’e tissue, more or less rich in small cells. True neuromata occur only in connection AA'ith nerves. The bulbous extremities of nerves, often seen in stumps after amputation, are said by Valentin, Lebert, and others, to be specimens of true neuromata. True neiu’omata occur also without preAdous injury of the nerve. They are then frequently multiple. They are not diagnosable in any Avay from other firm tumours of nerves. They are sometimes painful and tender, and sometimes not. The most characteristic sign of any tumour seated on a nerve is, that Avhen the nerve upon which it is seated is put on the stretch by the position of the part, the tumour is almost immovable in a direction parallel to the coiuse of the nerA'e, while it is more or less freely movable in the transA'erse direction. True neuromata are always non-mahgnant, and should not be interfered AAuth in any way unless they give rise to serious inconvenience from pain. 0. Angioma. Vascular Tumour.-—Under the name of angiomata • are included only such tumours as are composed of vascular tissue of new growth, and not such swellings as arise from the dilatation of pre-existing vessels. The so-called cirsoid aneiuism, or aneurism by anastomosis, being supposed to be due chiefly to a dilatation of pre-existing arteries, although doubtless accom- panied by some ucav formation of A'cssels, is not usually included amongst angiomata, nor are the SAA-ellings formed by coiiA'olutcd masses of varicose A'eins. True angiomata are usually diA'ided into tAvo classes : m angioma or telangiectasis, and the cavernous angioma. The angioma is composed of a mass of tortuous and dilated capillaries bound together by