655 OPERATION FOR RECTO-VAGINAL RUPTURE. for ten yeare, as for ten days. A very serious evil arising from ruptured I)erimeum is the loss of support to the pehic viscera, and the consequent liability to prolapsus of the uterus or of the A'aginal or vesical Avail. When the sphincter ani or the recto-vaginal septimi has giA'en Avay, incontinence of fteces to a greater or lesser e.xtent is the consequence, feculent matter coming aAvay in a fluid state iuA'oluntarily. The neighbouring parts are from this cause liable to excoriation ; and not unfrequently the rectal mucous membrane becomes pro- lapsed or htemon-hoidal. The Trealment, Avhich is purely operative, consists, in chronic cases, of a plastic in-ocedure, haAing for its object the bringing together and the union by adhesion of the opposite sides of the rent. The extent and difficulty of this operation aaiII vary according to the extent of the laceration, and its prospect of success AAill depend on attention to several points in its performance ; but also, as is the case Avith most plastic j)rocedures, on the state of the patient’s health. This should bo brought up to the best possible condition before the Surgeon proceeds to operate. All local iiTitation should be removed, piles or pro- lapsus ani cmed, and the parts brought into as healthy a state as possible. When the laceration is of very limited extent and recent, union may usually be effected by the immediate introduction of a point or tAA^o of suture, and bringing and keeping the thighs together. Should the laceration, though it iiiA-olves the Avhole perinaaum, be confined to this, and not extend into the sphincter ani, it may usually readily be repaired by paring the edges freely, and passing tAvo deep quilled and foim superficial sutimes, so as to bring the oj)posite sides together, as Avill immediately be described. After the operation, the patient should he on her side, and either have the urine draAvn off three times a day, or A\ear an elastic catheter for at least a Aveek. In these cases the boAvels may be ahoAved to act naturally, care being taken that the motions be kept aAvay from the perinseum, Avhich must be supported by the nurse when the bowels act. When the laceration is very extensive, extending through the perinteum, the sphincter ani, and the posterior wall of the vagina into the rectum—in fact, tearing through the recto-vaginal septum—more extensive and most careful treatment Avill be required. The foUoAving is the mode of performino- the necessary operation. ® Operation for Rupture of the Perinaeum involving the Recto-Vaginal Septum.—The bowels haA'ing been well cleared out, the patient should be placed m the position for lithotomy. The upper wall of the vagina being held ou 0 the AA^ay by means of a “duck-billed” speculum, the edges and sides of 0 rent must be freely and deeifiy pared in a horse-shoe shape, so as to leave a laAv surface about an inch in Avidth. The greatest care must be taken to remove every particle of mucous membrane and integumcntal structure not wi y fiom the sides of the fissure, but also fr'om above the upper ano-Ie of it in the recto-vaginal septum, and from the anterior part of this. Any nortioii 0 icse structures that may be left behind, however minute, Avill, of course be . 0 )s aclc to union, and Avill either interfere completely AAuth it, or leave a fm opening in its site. The sphincter ani should then be freely divided cac side of the coccyx, as recommended by BroAAm, in order that its artimi may be parelyecd, and all tesioa of the part aenaoved , 0 “s