CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 667 loped itself; but iu the early stages, before it is positively declared, it is nob always easy to deteriiiinG its existence. The ecchymosis and discoloration of a bruise, the collapse and lividity that result from cold, or the daii pm^ile hue occasioned by long-continued congestion, may readily be confounded with im- pending gangrene. In these cases of doubt, the Siu’geon should not be in too great a huny to pronounce an unfavourable opinion, and still less to act upon it; for not luicommonly parts of the body which have to all appearance lost their vitality, may, under proper treatment, regain it. Progxosis.—So far as the part itself is concerned, the prognosis is always bad; though occasionally, when gangrene has not been fully established, partial recovery may imexpectedly take place. So lar as the life of the patient is at stake, much will depend on the cause of the affection, and on the age and strength of the individual; at advanced periods of life, and in a feeble state ol system, the result is always unfavourable. Also whilst the gangrene is spread- ing, the prognosis is bad, as it is impossible to say where the morbid action may stop ; but when a “ line of demarcation ” has formed, indicating the pos- session of a certain vigoiu’ of constitution, the principal danger is over, and the result will depend on the power of the patient, and the support that can be given during the processes of separation and of repair. Teeatmext.—As gangrene proceeds from a great variety of causes, it is e’^'ident that no one plan of treatment can be miiversally applied ; and it becomes necessary to modify our therapeutical and operative means, not only according to the cause of the disease, but also with special reference to the constitution of the patient, and with regard to the stage in Avhich we meet with the gangrene ; and, indeed, it often requires great tact and experience to accom- modate the treatment in this way to the varying phases of the disease. The Constitutional Treatment of gangrene is of the highest importance ; of greater moment, indeed, in the spontaneous forms of the affection than the local management of the disease. It has three principal aims : 1. To remove the cause if possible, and thus to arrest the gangrene. 2. To suppoi't the pow&rs of the system during the process of the separedion of the sloughs and dead tissues ; and 3. To lessen the irritahilitg of the nervous system. 1. In the removal of the constitidwnal cause, yfo, must look wholly to the condition of the patient’s system. If this be in an inflammatory or febrile state, we must have recourse to a modified antiphlogistic plan. Depressing remedies must be very sparingly used, the patient’s condition being usually not of such a natm-e as to bear lowering. It is very easy to knock down inflammation by energetic measures ; but, at the same time, the reparative poivei of the system may be destroyed, and the patient may not be able to rally. Inflammatory fever, however high it may be in the early stages, rapidly sinks after gangrene has set in, symptoms of an asthenic or an irritative type ensuing. Plence it is only before the occurrence and during the spread of gangrene, that lowering remedies can be employed ; for, when once ganoi’ene as ceased to extend, however high the action may have been that accomiDanied s progress, all the powers of the constitution will be required to maintain the p cess of separation of the sloughs, if they be extensive and deep. Yenesec- stitcof’tiir 6“"Kreiious hinammatioii. An enfeebled state of the enealat.ou of the part or the eyetem generally may equally ol-