INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 6i6 The latest time at which life can be recalled, during this period, is the measure of the duration of life in asphyxia. If, during this period, the action of the heart should cease entirely, I believe, with Brodie, that the circulation can ncr ei be restored. But although wo may put out of consideration those marvellous cases of restoration of life that are recorded by the older writers, and which are o'shdently unworthy of credence, are Ave to I’oject as exaggerated and apocryphal cases such as that by Smethurst, in which recovery took place after ten minutes’ submersion ; that by Douglas of Havre, in which the patient Avas not only submersed, but had actually sunk into, and Avas fixed in the mud at the bottom of the harboiu’ for from tweB'e to fom*teen minutes ; or that by Weeks, in Avhich the submersion, on the testimony of the most credible witnesses, exceeded half an horn’ ? I thmk that it would be unphilosophical in the extreme to deny the facts clearly stated by these gentlemen ; the more so that in these, as in many other instances of apparent death from drowning, life appears to have been prolonged by the patient falling into a state of syncope at the moment of immersion. We must therefore not despair of recovery, but should employ means of resuscitation, even though the body have been actually mider water a considerable time. There are certain minor means often employed in the case of persons who have been immersed in water, and are apparently droAvned, which appear to be AveU adapted for the treatment of the less severe forms of asphyxia, or rather cases of syncope from fright and immersion in cold water. These consist, after the nose and mouth haA^e been cleared of any collections of mucus, in the ap- plication of heat by means of a bath at about the temperature of 100° Fahr. until the natural Avarmth is restored ; in the employment of brisk friction ; and in passing of ammonia to and fro under the nostrils. It is evident that these measmes can haA''e no direct influence upon the heart and lungs, but can only act as general stimuli to the system, equalising the circulation if it be still going on ; and, by determining the flow of blood to the surface, tending to remove those congestions that are not so much the consequences of the asphyxia, as of the sojomn of the body for several minutes in cold AA'ater ; they would therefore be of especial service during the colder seasons of the year. A hot bath may also, by the shock it gives, excite the reflex respiratory move- ments. With the view of doing this with a greater degree of certamty, cold Avater should be sprinkled or dashed upon the face at the time when the body is immersed in the hot bath, as in this way a most powerful exciting influence can be communicated to the respnatory muscles ; and the first object of treat- ment in all cases of asphyxia—the re-establishment of respiration Avould more rapidly and effectually be accomphshed ; deep gaspings ensuing, by which the air Avould be sucked into the remote ramifications of the air-cells, aerating the blood that had accmnulated in the piflmonary vessels, and enabling it to find its Avay to the left cavities of the heart, and thus to excite that organ to increased activity. These means, then, are useful in those cases of asphyxia in Avhich the sufferer has been but a short tune submersed, and in Avhi eh the heart is still acting, and the respiratory movements have either begun ot their OAAm accord on the patient being removed from the water, or m Avhich they arc capable of being excited by the shock of a hot bath, aided by t le as niig o cold AAnter in the face. At the same time the lungs maybe e am pure