TUMOURS. 776 M presented a niaUgTiant aspect, 1 tense rapidity of growth or reeim-enco after operation ; thus several of tlie tnmonx-s already described were formerly considered to be cancers The occasional co-existence of true caneer with cartilaginous, bony, or erectile tissue, has given rise to special varieties called respectively Chondroid Osteoid and Anennsmal. Accidents of structure or appearance have been designated by special names, as Cystic, Villous, Fungoid, &c, and thas much contusion has resulted. Cancers may be conveniently divided into four groups, which must not, how- ever, be taken as possessing any positively distinctive characters, but merely as types of certain important varieties, viz.; Encephaloid, soft or acute Cancer; bciiThus, hard or chronic Cancer; Epithelial or Integumental Cancer, and the Adenoid or Glandular Cancer, or Tubular Epithelioma. This di’dsion will be found to facilitate the study of the numerous minor varieties which occasionally present themselves. Viewing the four varieties of cancer above enumerated as formed upon a common type, we cannot be surprised at finding veiy niuneroiis points of resemblance existing amongst them ; thus one form of cancer may take the place of another, or be associated with it; encephaloid occun’ing after the removal of scin-hus, or being associated with a structine allied to epithelioma. This identity of seat and of reciuTence, which tends more than anything else to establish a common origin amongst these tumours, has been specially pointed out by Carswell. Then, again, these tiimoiu’s are all of a truly malignant character, having a tendency to induce a peculiar and similar condition of the system that goes by the name of the Cancerous Cachexy. In chemical composition, also, they are nearly identical, being principally composed of albumen. We will now describe and compare the Scirrhous and Encephaloid cancers : the epithelial and adenoid forms, iiresenting some very marked peculiarities of structure, will be more conveniently considered apart from the others. Microscopic Structure.—The microscopic characters of the different forms of cancer have of late years attracted considerable attention amongst pathologists. They consist, in aU the varieties, essentially of the same elements, though these may differ somewhat in aj)pearance, and in relative preponderance, in the different forms of the affection. A cancer always presents collections of cells of an epithelial ty]ie, gi’ouped together irregularly, in close contact vdth each other, and enclosed in spaces always more or less distinctly alveolar. As in a normal gland we can have no doubt where the epithelium ends and the fibrous tissue begins, so in a cancer there is a sharply defined fine between the cells and the stroma. The cells ai’e but loosely connected with the stroma and with one another, and in many cases are separated from each other by a very small quantity of fluid. If a thin section of a cancer be gently brushed under water with a camel’s hair pencil, or shaken in a test-tube half full of water, the cells may be washed away and the stroma left. Its alveolar natui’e iriU then be distinctly apparent, and the fibrous stroma will bo seen to bound spaces which by their communication form a cavernous system. Every cancerous tumour is siuToiinded by a halo of small