825 IIELEDITAIIY NATURE. ,„,clci present a remarkably shrivelled, which i-as foi-mcrly considered as their gi-eat charactenstic. ahe cells mcasmo tVom —\-th to of an inch in diameter. In the softer forms of yel oi, tulicrcle the ceUs are more disintcgi-ated, and drops of molecular oil and much oranular matter arc present. The fluid parts may subsequently become absorbed, and leave a cheesy or cretaceous mass. Tubercle must often be recoo-nised rather by its negative than by its positive characters—by ascei- tainhi^r ivhat it is not, and so, by a process of exclusion, amving at its true nature! It is most easily confounded with pus, from which, however, it may be distinguished by its possessing a solid intercellular substance. The Frocjress of tubercle is most commonly to disintegration and liquefac- tion at the same time that it gives rise, by its initation, to inflammation and suppuration in the siuTounding tissues ; hence it commonly leads to abscesses, the pus of which is always curdy and shreddy. In some cases tubercle may become indurated, and undergo a species of calcification. Causes.—The causes of scrofula and tubercle, uidess these be of a hereditary character, though very various in their natime, are usually such conditions as influence injuriously the nutrition of the body. The Hereditary Nature of both scrofula and tubercle is well known to the pubhc and to the profession ; for, although the disease is not commonly connate, yet the tendency to it is, and the characteristic natime of the affection often manifests itself at an early period, notAvithstanding every effort to prevent its development. That a parent may transmit a tendency to malnutrition, to misdevelopment of the blood, just as he may a peculiar feature or mental condition, is imdoubted. It is by the hereditary transmission of peculiar combinations and modifications of action in the organisation that hereditary diseases develop themselves at certain periods in the life of the offspring when the injurious results of the morbid actions that have been transmitted have had time to be produced. There are certain conditions which, though not scrofulous, are supposed to have a tendency to develop this disease in the offspring to which they are transmitted; thus very dyspeptic parents com- monly have strumous children ; so, also, the offspring of very old or very young people often 'exhibit a proneness to scrofnlous or tuberculous affections. The infinence of intermarriage is stiU a matter of doubt, but I believe that it is but small; and it is commonly stated that the inhabitants of small commu- nities who intennarry closely, such as those of the Isles of Portland and of Man, are not more liable to scrofula than other individuals. The most poAverfnl occasioning cause of scrofula, and that which in most civilised countries is likewise the most frequent, i^maJoiuirition and malassimi- lat'ion arising from an habitual disregard of hygienic laws ; either from want of food, or the administration of improper food, in the poorer classes ; or from overfeeding, and overstimiTlation of the digestive organs, amongst the children of the wealthier orders of society, inducing chronic irritation of the mucous membrane of the stomach and interference with the digestive powers, and con- sequently with nuti-ition. The influence of food that is innutritions in quality or insufficient in quantity, has been shown by Phillips, in his excellent Treatise on^ Scrofula, to be the most immediate cause of this disease ; and, when con- joined with the injurious effects of a confined and impure atmosphere, it may