ADDENDA TO VOLUME I. 957 PAriK 271. 8.—TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. A very ingenious apparatus for the perforaiance of direct transfusion has lately been fntroduced into this country by Dr. Roussel, of Genera, n'ho in- vented it as long ago as 1804. It is so designed as to render the entrance of nir during the operation almost impossible, and is made of natural black caoutchouc, in contact with which the blood is said to coagulate much more ■slowly than Avith any other material. The instrument consists of a rigid cylinder of A'ulcanite, Avhich is surrounded by a cup of the same material. When applied to the arm, the edges of the cup and the loAver end of the cylinder press upon the skin, and the instrument is fixed in position by ex- hausting the air contained in the space betAveen the cup, the cylinder and the skin by means of a powerful india-rubber ball, which is connected with the «pace by a tube. It must be so applied that the vein AAfill be seen on looking- down the cylinder exactly in the centre of the space enclosed by its loAver end. The cylinder has tAvo tubes opening into it, one fitted with a stop-cock, leading to a basin containing warm water, and the other fitted with a Higginson’s syringe capable of containing 10 grammes of fiuid. Beyond the syringe the tube dmdes into tAvo parts, one of which is fitted with a Auilcanite nozzle to be introduced into the vein of the recipient. A stop-cock is fitted at the junction of these tubes, so that the stream from the syringe may be directed into either at AviU. The upper end of the cylinder is closed during the performance of ;the operation by an accurately fitting plug of vulcanite, through the middle of ■ which passes a small lancet, which can be driven doAvn into the vein by pressing a button at the top of the plug, and is then retracted again by a spring. The depth to which the lancet can be depressed is accurately regulated by a small .screw, and it is so an-anged that no air can enter beside it. Everything being- ready, the cup and cylinder firmly fixed, and the vein (at a point which is not •over the artery) exactly in the centre of the loAver opening of the cylinder, the plug is inserted into the upper opening. By a few actions of the syringe a vpiantity of water is draAAm in by the aflFerent tube, which expels the air from .the cylinder, and fills it and the efferent tube^ with water AA^hen the stop-cock leading to the afferent tube is closed. The nozzle is then inserted into the A'ein of the recipient, and the stop-cock turned so as to direct the floAv to the other efferent tube. The lancet is now driven sharply doAvn into the vein, and is immediately retracted by the small spring, and the Aoin is thus opened under Avatcr. On working the syringe the blood is aspirated from the open vein, Sind flows into the efferent tube, Avhich is open. As soon as pure blood begins to lloAv, the stop-cock is turned so as to open the tube connected Avith the cannula in the Aoin of the recipient, and close the other. The small quantity of Avatei- contained in this tube and the cannula is then driven on into the vein, and afterwards pure blood can be pumped in as lono- as is necessary.