147 VARIETIES OF ABSCESS. the iiroolar i^lanes of the thigh or in the joints, and in the adipose tissue of the orbit, often destroying the globe of the eye. To these forms of the disease the KetSistaitic Abscesses are closely allied. They commonly occiu’ as conse- quences of pyaemia, are very nmnerous, and are met with in the substance of organs as well as in the areolar tissue and joints. The last three species of abscess are A'arieties of the acute form. Chronic Abscesses are of very common occinTence. The tissue in the vici- nity of a piece of dead bone being iiTitated by its presence, or a gland or some portion of the snbcutaneons areolar tissue having become indicated tender or snbacntely inflamed, at last, slowly and without any constitutional symptoms, or much appearance of local disturbance except the swelling, softens and breaks doMm into a somewhat thin, flaky, curdy, pnriform fluid, though in some instances the pus is perfectly healthy. These abscesses do not readily point, but often extend laterally, biUTovdng for a considerable distance from their original seat. In other cases they become circumscribed by a thick and dense wall of fibrine, through which it may be extremely difficidt, and perhaps impossible, to detect fluctuation ; the disease then simulating a sohd tmnoiu. The diuation of these chi’onic abscesses without opening is often very remark- able, even when situated in soft parts. I have seen large chronic abscesses, in the iliac ^ fossa and groin, perfectly stationary for nearly two years. When situated in denser structiues, as in the substance of the breast, the wvall may liccome so dense as to resemble a cyst, and the disease wiU continue in the same state for a gi-eat length of time. In the bones, abscesses may exist for an indefimte period. Cold, Lyinphatic or Congestive Abscess often occm-s with but slight pre- cursory locas^unptoms, or even without any at all. The patient, who has usually * been cachectic, and has suffered some time fr-om general debihty, feels slight un- casmess m the gi-oin ihac fossa, or axiUa, and finds suddenly a large fluctuatino- noui in one of these situations ; there is perhaps no pain in the part and ‘Tfsuch an abscass as this, theie will usually be a copious discharge of thin unhealthy pus, which when examined under the microscope, vail be found to contain iU-developed withered looking matter, probably sero-plastic effusion. ^ ^ Abscess, which contains ?as as well as •tuCantair'' ^ rf of the mucons ianals, chiefly hoinetimes the communication with the intesHriP i'b -ft.. • hi, * to old age. I have ononPfl o i 1 • , ’ earliest mfiincy ftn,.i„rt Ohl. ThciSt-»"„„t a a p,nt oa .oao otpns. I„ son. cases, whin