SPONTANEOUS ENTRY OF AIR. 333 ailmittauce, the entrance of each portion being attended by tlie pecidiar sound above described. On listening now to the action of the heart, a loud chitmmg iioise will be heard, synchronous with the ventricular systole ; and the hand will if applied to the parietes of the chest, feel at the same time a peculiar bubblino-, thrilling, or rasping sensation, occasioned by the air and blood being, as it were, whipped together amongst the columnai carneai and chorda3 tendiiieJB. -Vs the introduction of air continues, the circulation becomes gradually more feeble and languid ; the heart’s action, however, being fully as forcible as natiu-al, if not more so. The animal soon becomes unable to stand ; if placed upon its feet, it rolls over on one side, utters a few plaiiitiv e cries, is convulsed, extrudes the feces and m-ine, and dies. If the thorax be immediately opened, it will be seen that the heart’s action is continuing regularly and forcibly, and that the pulmonic cavities, though filled, do not appear distended beyond their ordinary size. Death occiu’S, as I have shown in a paper on this subject, published in the 158th number of the EdiiiiiivffJi 3Isdiccil (tnd Sui ciwcd Jouj ned, in conseciuence of the air and blood being beaten up together in the right cavities of the heart into a spumous froth, which cannot be propelled through the pulmonary vessels ; hence there is a deficient supply of blood to the brain and neiwous centres, and fatal syncope comes on, attended usually by coimdsions. Lr addition to this the fr-othy mixture in the ventricles has not sufficient resistance to press upon and to close the valves of the heart, and the organ soon comes to a stand-stiff. SpoihTANEotjs Entry of Air into the Veins of Man is attended by two distinct sets of phenomena, one of a local, the other of a constitutional character. Local Phenomena.—These consist of a peculiar somid, produced by the entrance of the air, and of the appearance of bubbles about the wound in the The sound is of a hissing, sucking, gurgling, or lapping character, and vem. never fails to indicate the serious natm-e of the accident that has occuiTed. When once heard, whether in man or in the lower animals, it can never be mistaken. It has fortunately fallen to my lot to hear this sound in the human subject on one occasion oiffy, in a patient who had attempted suicide by cutting his throat. The wounded internal jugular was being raised for the pinpose of having a ligatine passed under it, when a loud hissing and ginghng soimd was heard, and some bubbles of ah appeared about the wound ; the patient became faint, and greatly oppressed in his breathing. The ligature was immediately tightened, the faintness gradually passed oft^ and no bad consequences ensued. ^ The Constitutional Effects are usually very marked. At the moment of the entry of the air, the patient is seized vnth extreme faintness, and a sudden oppression about the chest; he usually screams out or exclaims that he is dead or dying, and continues moaning and whining ; the pulse becomes nearly im- perceptible, and the heart’s action labouring, rapid, and feeble ; death com- monly results, but not instantaneously, in many cases at least. Thus Beau- chesne’s patient lived a quarter of an hour after the occiuTence of the accident; Mirault’s between three and four hours ; and Clemot’s several hours. Amongst the other recorded fatal cases, I have not been able to find any but v; statements as to the length of time during which the patients survived. ague