CAUSES OF THROMBOSIS. 719 A thrombus forms more frequently in a vessel of medium size than in one of very large or very small calibre ; and, as might be expected, more fr’equently in a vein than in an artery of equal magnitude. The phenomena attending the formation of a thrombus in an artery have been akeady considered, and it will therefore only be necessary here to review those results of coagulation in the veins which are intimately connected wth the subject before us. It will be desirable to consider the influence of these causes seriathn. a. Diminished vis a tergo may result fr’om want of power in the contrac- tions of the heart. This may be due to old age, bad nourishment, cardiac •disease, or to severe shock or loss of blood from an injury or operation. The force of the heart is also weakened in all exhausting febrile diseases, as erysi- pelas, severe traumatic fever, or hospital gangrene. InteiTuption to the proper distribution of the force through want of elasticity in the arteries acts in the same way. The cm-rent of blood under these circumstances flows with less rapidity through the veins, and coagula are hable to form around the valves or in any dilatation that may hajjpen to exist. Another very common cause of retardation consists in the clmimdion of calibre produced by the pressm-e of a tumom- upon a vessel, or by the contraction following inflammatoiy exudation in the substance of an organ : examples of these conditions may be frequently seen in the iliac veins pressed upon by a pregnant uterus or an ovarian tumomv and in the vessels of a cirrhotic liver ; and it must be remembered that a tight bandage may act in exactly the same way. The most important cause, how- ever, is undoubtciily the interruptmi of the floio of blood which follows the division of a vein during a surgical operation. Several circumstances influence this result in an important manner ; thus, if a vein be divided imniediately below the site of a pah of valves, these being closed by the pressure from above, coagulation will take place in the column of blood thus rendered stationary ; the clot may be hmited or may extend to a considerable distance along the vessel, and not unfrequently small isolated thrombi form around the valves of the venous tranks leading from such an occluded branch. This process has been commonly described as phlebitis, the coagulation being viewed as secondary to the inflammatory changes in the coats of the vessel, w'hich usually ensue, sooner or later. These considerations offer a probable explanation of the evil effects which frequently foUow' the application of a ligature to a large venous trunk ; because, as a lai’ge column of blood is in these cases rendered stagnant, coagulation rapidly sets in and is not easily limited. b. Amongst the second class of causes, inflammation of the- coats of the vessets, arteritis and phlebitis, formerly occupied the most prominent position. Hunter described two forms, the suppurative and adhesive ; and he considered that an exudation was thrown out upon the surface of the lining membrane, which acted as the exciting cause of the thrombosis. This has, however, been shown to be incorrect. The external coat may become inflamed, and the muscular coat suffers secondarily and becomes swollen, producing not only a narrowing of the calibre of the vessel but some iiTegularity on its inner sui’face. us may load to coagulation ; and it is by no means necessary for this that 0 mflamraatory action should reach the stage of suppuration, and that necrosis 0 e inner coat should take place. All that is necessary is, that the inflam-