533 INJURIES OF THE SCALP. the operation itself is attended by grave dangers of its own, and inflicts an additional injury on the diiiloe ; that it can scarcely be considered as likely ' to be attended by any benefit in rescuing the patient from the possible danger of pyamiia; and that, therefore, in the fiice of such micertainties and of such possible dangers, so serious an operation as trephining the skull is not justifiable. INJURIES OP THE SCALP. COXTUSIOXS OP THE ScAEP from blows are of common occiuTence, and present some peculiarities. However severe the contusion may be, it seldom happens that the scalp sloughs. This is evidently owing to the great vascu- larity and consequent active vitality of the integuments of the head. In many cases, a contusion in this situation is followed by considerable extravasation ot blood, raising up the scalp into a soft semi-fluctuating tumom’. It occasionally happens, especially in bloivs on the heads of children, that this extravasation gives rise to the siqiposition that fracture exists, owing to the edge of the con- tusion feeling hard, ivhilst the centre is soft, apparently fr’om the depression of the subjaeent bone. In some cases, indeed, this deceptive feehng vdll occur inthout any considerable extravasation of blood under the scalp, the depressed centre being due to the compression of the scalp by the blow that has been inflicted upon it. This I have seen occasionally in children in whom the scalp is soft and somewhat spongy. The difficulty of distinguishing between such an extravasation and a piece of depressed bone, is often so great as to mislead the most experienced Surgeons. Usually it can be effected by feehng the smooth bone at the bottom of the soft central depression, and by an absence of symptoms of compression. But in the event of doubt, it will be safer to make an incision, and so to examine directly the state of the bone itself. The Treatment of contusion of the scalp is very simple ; the continuous application of evaporating lotions being usually sufficient for the removal of all effusion. In no circumstances should a puncture be made or the blood let out in any way. Contusions of the scalp in girls and young women have been followed by severe neiwalgic pains in the j)art struck. This affection is extremely rebellious to treatment; but in two cases which I have seen, after lasting for a long time, these symptoms gradually disappeared. In such cases, incisions down to the bone are said to have sometimes been beneficial. C'EPHALHyEiiATOirA.—It occasioiiaUy happens that bloody tumoiu's of the scalp form in newly born children, either from contusion of the head in conse- quenee of the pressure to which it is subjected in its passage ; or fr’om the bruising of obstetric instruments. These tumours, which are often large and _ fluctuating, are termed cephalhaematomata. They may occur in two situa- tions, either hetiveen the cqmmurotic structures of the scalp and the pericranium, or between this membrane and the shull itself. ^ The Subaponeurotic Cephalhaematoma is by far the most common ’s ariety. It usually forms a large, soft, fluctuating tumour, situated upon one of the parietal eminences, and having a somewhat indurated circumference. The tumour may usually be made to subside in a few days by the use of discutient lotions. I he Subpericranial Cephalhaematonia is an injury of extremely rare