28o arrest of arterial lUEMORRlIAGE. 1)C employed in soft and movable parts, as the throat or perinaeiun. Pi’cssnre may bo practised in various ways. Sometimes the mere uniform compression ot a bandage is sufficient to airest the haemorrhage; thus oozing from a wound may often be stopped by laying domi the flaps, and ajeplying a bandage rather tightly over them. Sometimes a weight applied upon this will tend still fiu-ther to arrest the bleeding ; as, for mstance, by means of a shot or sand-bag laid upon the part. In the case of bleeding from hollow cavities, as the rectum, vagina, or nares, the haemorrhage may be arrested by the pressure of a plug of sponge or lint, to which sometimes a styptic may advantageously be added. T\Tien the hfemorrhage proceeds from the pimctme of a small or moderate-sized artery, as of the temporal or brachial, pressure should be made against the adjacent bone by means of a graduated compress and bandage, and should be continued until complete consolidation of the wound has taken jjlace, the vessel becoming obhterated. The (jraduated compress should be at least an inch in thickness, and made of a series of pledgets of lint of a circular shape, gradually diminishing in size. It should be applied with its pointed end resting over the wound in the vessel. In applying it, care should be taken that the part on which the pressme is to be exercised has been thoroughly dried of all blood, and that the artery is commanded above the wound by a toiuiiiquet, or by the pressure of an assistant’s fingers. A thick slice of a phial-cork, or a fourpeimy piece, snapped in lint, being placed on the woimd, the graduated compress should be bandaged tightly over the whole. When applied in this way, pressme acts by inducing adhesive inflammation and obliteration of the vessel at the point compressed. 5. Forcible Flexion, as a means of arresting hsemon-hage from the arteries of the limbs, has in recent years been advocated by Heath of Newcastle, Adehnann of Dorpat, and others. Its appheation is founded on the fact, specially pointed out in 1843 by Formey, that flexion of the arm at the elbow-joint weakens or arrests the pulsation at the wrist. Malgaigne, Vidal, Fleiuy, Fry, and some other Siu’geons, have reported cases in which the plan was employed successfully; Imt until lately the method has attracted little attention. Heath, from a number of experiments made by him in the Newcastle Infirmary, has foimd that flexion of the arm at the elbow, or of the leg at the knee, diminishes or ainests the pulse in the distant arteries. In this respect he confirms the observations of Hyrtl and others ; but he finds also that in the aim the process is greatly aided by placing a piece of lint or a handkerchief rolled up in the bend of the elbow; and in the lower limb, by bending the thigh on the abdomen at the same time that the leg is bent at the knee. Where flexion acts successfully as a means of harmostasis—as it is reported to have done in several cases, especially in womids of the palmar* ■ arteries and the vessels of the fore-arm—it probably does so by weakening the current of blood, so as to favoru* the closme of the arterial wound in ^the manner described in speaking of the Natural Arrest of Htcmoiihage. The apparent simplicity and safety (when carefully applied) of flexion render it ■worthy of further trial in cases of injury of the arteries of the fore-arm and hand or of the leg and foot. A roU of lint or other soft material having been jrlaced in the flexure of the joint, the limb should be bent rmtil it is