15 EMPLOYMENT OF ANjESTJIETIGS. ccssaiy talking Avlien once the patient is on the table ; the Surgeon’s directions ought to be conveyed by a brief word or two, by a look, or by a sign with the hand. The Siu-geon himself must always feel the heavy responsibility that hangs over him dm-ing the performance of a great operation—‘‘ at that moment when,” as Dr. Grant has elegantly said, “Death everywhere surrounds his knife as he is endeavouring to com-ey all his knowledge to its point.” But having carefully considered each successive step of the operation, provided for every emergency that can by any possibility arise in the course of it, and trusting in Him, from whom all knowledge is derived, to strengthen his judg- ment and guide his hand ai-ight, he will proceed to the performance of his duty with self-reliance, and in the full confidence of being able to effect all that Art can accomiilish. EMPLOYMENO? OP AN.2ESTHETICS. It is reasonable to believe that the prevention of pain in siu’gical operations has been an object of solicitude to Surgeon as well as to patient from the earliest ages: and there can be little doubt that narcotics of curious kinds have at different times been employed -with this ^iew. But the effect of these was so uncertain— their after-consequences perhaps so injurious—that no permanent reliance was placed upon thein. The first endeavoiu- to induce anaesthesia by the inhalation of vapoiu-s is stated to have leeen made in the thirteenth centiuy by Theodoric, who recommended that a “ Spongia Somuifera,” impregnated with sinrituous extracts of various narcotic substances, should bo held to the nostrils till sleep was induced ; and that after the operation the patient should be roused by the use of Hnegar or fenugreek. It was not, however, till the commencement of this century that any serious attempts were made in this direction. The discovery of the remarkable properties exercised on the nervous system by the inhalation of nitrous oxide, then led Sir Humphiy Davy and others to entertain hopes that it might be used as a means of relieving pain dining singical operations. Experiments were made with the gas vith this liew, but they did not prove altogether satisfactoiy, audit was abandoned, except as a means of amusement. It is needless to do more than allude to such means as the compression of the nerves of the limb, as recommended by Moore—the employment of exces- sive venesection, as adopted by Wardrop—or the production of insensibility by mesmerism by Esdaile and others. These means of inducing anassthesia were either inefficient, dangerous, or chimerical. It was not until 1841 that a serious attempt was again made to introduce insensibility by inhalation during operations : and to the Americans is un- doubtedly due the honour of having established the practice of Ana3sthesia in Surgery. In that year Horace AVells, a dentist of Hartford, Connecticut, inhaled the nitrous oxide gas with a vieiv of rendering himself insensible during the extraction of a tooth • and, finding the experiment succeed, re- peated it on severa,! of his patients. Its success was not, howei'cr, permanent ; and hanng faded ]ii several cases, he seems to have given up the attempt. In 1846 Dr. Morton, a dentist, and a pupil of Wells, used the vapom of ether mstrad of the nitrous oxide gas ; and, having succeeded in extracting several teeth painlessly, applied to the authorities of tlic IMassachusctts General