754 TUMOURS. attaining- an enormous size mthin a few months, and contaminating the system by the deposit of secondary enchondromatous gi-OAvths in intenial owmns • in these circumstances, it Avonld ai^pear to have occasionally been mistaken'for the rapidly spreading forms of encephaloid disease. The infectino- variety will always be found to be surrounded by a zone of soft embryonic tissue. When these groAvths attain a large size and soften as aboA'e described, the skin covering them mgy become duskily inflamed, eventually slough, and form fistulous openings, through which a thin jelly-like matter is discharged. In some cases it would appear that large tumom-s of this description, softening in the centre, and becoming elastic and semi-fluctuating, have been mistakeirfor cysts, and have been tapped on this supposition. In small enchondromata the opposite condition more frequently occurs, the tumom- becoming indurated, and undergoing ossification. ^ Locality. Most frequently enchondroma occims in connection with some bone. It is most fteqnent in the metacai-pus and phalanges of the fingers (Figs. 282, 283). It is rare, in this situation, to find only one bone or phafanx affected; the tumours are almost invariably multiple. They form hard or elastic rounded knobs, seldom larger than a ivalnut or a pigeon’s egg. They never ossify, but not unfrequently calcify. Large enchondromata are most commonly met ivith in or upon the head of the tibia or the condyles of the femim, foi-ming in these situations rapidly increasing growths of considerable magnitude. Enchondi-omata also are found on the ribs and bones of the pelvis, in the inteimuscnlar spaces of the neck, thigh, and leg ; in connection with the sheaths of tendons, and occasionally in glands ; but in this last situation they are seldom, if ever, ixme, being mixed Avith myxoma, adenoma, or sarcoma, and it is said by some, occasionally with carcinoma. It is a curious fact, that enchondromata never arise in connection Avith pre-existing cartilage. When coimected with the bones, enchondroma may spring from the rig. 2S2. —Large Encliraulroma of Index Finger. Fig. 2S3.—Ordinary Enchoudroina of Finger. periosteum, gi-adually enveloping, absorbing, and eventually destroying, the osseous structures, though at first not incorporated with them. It has then been distinguished as “ perichondroma.” This is its usual mode of oiigin Avhen occurring in the femui* or tibia; Avhen seated on the short bones, especially on the metacai-pus and phalanges (Figs. 282, 283), it cormnonly springs from the intei’ior of the osseous structime, which becomes expanded