9o8 diseases of THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. lesion, or disturbance ot important parts, as from exhaustion consequent on the Irequency of the tetanic spasms. Pathology.—There is siu-ely nothing more remarkable in the whole history of disease than that, in consequence of a trivial wound inflicted on a distant part of one of the extremities of the body, an otherwise apparently healthy man should be seized with a spasmodic affection of the muscles of the jaws ; that this spasm should extend to the trunk ; and that after a few hours it should be followed by general convulsive movements which will, in the great majority of instances, speedily end in death. It might reasonably be expected that such a train of phenomena would leave the most unmistakable evidences of the con- ditions that had given rise to them ; and that pathological anatomy would at once, and in the clearest manner, enable us to unravel the mysterious bonds that connect a graze of the foot with a spasm of the muscles of the neck and jaAv. But in this we shah, be grievously disappointed ; for the morbid appeai-- ances found after death from tetanus throw but httle light on the real nature of this affection,—so little, indeed, that it is fr’equently looked upon as a “func- tional disease.” But in saying that this or any other disease is functional, Ave only express our ignorance of its real cause. There is no function Avithout an organ to perform it ; and there can be no derangement of a function Avithout a corresponding and concomitant disorder of the organ that produces it. Every “frmctional” disease must, therefore, at last be referred to an organic lesion. The term “ functional ” is only employed AAEen we are not acquainted with the true nature of the disease. As less is kuoAAm of the real physiology and pathology of the brain and spinal cord than of other organs of the body, we have more “functional” diseases of the nervous system than of the circu- latory or respiratory. But, as pathological anatomy becomes more studied, and as minute investigations into structure are entered upon, so the class of so-called “ functional ” diseases becomes narrower. We do not speak of “func- tional ” coma, because we can appreciate the different conditions that occasion compression of the brain ; but we stiU speak of functional convulsive diseases and of functional amaurosis. The ophthalmoscope, hoAvever, has shown that “ functional ” amaiu’osis does not exist, but that the failiwe of vdsual power is always accompanied by and dependent on some corresponding change of struc- ture in the interior of the eye ; and adA’ances in pathology AviU doubtless shoAV that other so-called functional diseases of the nervous system are in reality dependent on structmal lesions. State of the Nerves at the Seat of Injury.—There is one morbid con- dition that wiU, I think, invariably be found in tetanus, viz., a marked conges- tion and inflammation of the nerve connected with, and leading fr’om, the Avound that has occasioned the disease. This morbid state I have neA'er fomid Avanting. In all cases of fatal tetanus that I have seen in which a caretid dis- section has been made, the signs of inflammation of a nerve communicating Avith the Avound have been found ; and the vascularity, Avhich is often a ery intense, may be traced up the nemilemma, often to a considerable distance. In a case of tetanus following a Avound of the knee, in a patient AA’ho died in UniA'ersity College IIosj)ital, a small branch of the internal cutaneous nei’Ae Avas found to hav'e been injured, and Avas inflamed. In another patient A\ho died of tetanus about sixteen days after treading on a rusty nail, a black speck