THE AXTISEPTIG METHOD. 2or accordance Avitli this theory, he sirfficiciit to light up all the mischief which it is the object of this method to avert. A\'e have already (p. 104 et aeq.) discussed the principles on Avhich the anti- septic method is founded. The details have been most ingeniously varied from time to time by In'ster. Any one who understands the principles on which it is foimdcd can have no gveat difficulty in caiiying it out on the following plan, which more or less modified is in accordance with Lister’s most recent views on the subject. Arterial hamiorrhage, when present, is controlled by torsion or by tying the ^•essels with cai-bolised catgut ligatines. These are prepared by soaking fine catgut for some weeks in an emulsion foiined by adding one part of pime ca>rl}olic a>cid, delii^uesced by the addition of vater, to fi\e paits of olive-oil. The ligatiu-es arc cut off short, and allowed to remain in the wound to become absorbed by the siuToimdiug tissues. Oozing of blood is to be checked by cold carbolised water. Supposing the wound to be the result of accident, its whole extent, even to the most remote recesses, is to be thoroughly mopiied or syringed out with a wateiy solution of the acid. If the womid be in-egnlar this is best done by means of a syringe with a piece of soft India- rubber tubing on its nozzle. The tubing is stiff enough to penetrate any existing cavity in the woimd, but not so stiff as to force a Avay for itself. Care must be taken in injecting the wound, not to squeeze the bps together so as to get up high pressing in its cavity, or the cellular tissue in the neighboiu- hood may become injected with the solution of carbolic acid, and unpleasant inflammation may result. If the wound be fresh, the solution need not be stronger than 1 to 40, but if some hours have passed it is safer to use a solu- tion of 1 in 20. The whole of the parts which Avill be covered by the dressing should be Avell washed Avith a solution of 1 in 20. If the womid be on the hand or foot, great care must be taken to clean the nails and betw’een the digits. If on the head, the hair must be cut, and here it is safer to oil Aihat remains Avith carbolised oil, 1 to 10. Any sutures that may be required should lie metallic, or of siUt tAAist steeped in becsAvax melted with one- tenth of carbolic acid, the needle and tlmead being passed through a watery solution of carbolic acid (1 to 40) before being used. The dressing from the time the injection is finished should be conducted luider a spray of carbolic acid and water (1 to 40). By means of the spray of 1 to 40 carbobc acid solution, throAAui by an amnsthetic spray-apparatus or some modification of it, the Avoimd is sniroiuided by a carbolised atmosphere in which none of the solid particles AAhich cause decomposition can retain their activity; in other AAords, no germs can hh^c. If the Avound be very large so that the cloud of spray from one apparatus does not completely coA'er it, tAvo must be used. If fr’om^any reason the spray should cease, the Avound must be covered Avith a guard consisting of a piece of linen rag free from holes, soaked in carbolic acid and water (1 to 40), Avhich should bo in constant readiness during any dressing or operation. In Avounds produced by operations, the syi’inging and mopping out Avith carbolised AA’ater is unnecessary, as the aaIioIo operation is performed under the spray. All the instruments should be put in a basin of cai olic acid and water (1 to 40), and taken out as required, and put back again ey are likely to be Avantod a second time during the operation. The sponges