GANGRENE FROM VENOUS OBSTRUCTION. 663 involving the inflamed areola, which continues to extend in proportion as the gangi-ene progi-esses. The pain, which is often of the most intense character, subsides when the gangrene becomes complete. In other cases the toes and foot simply shrivel, without any sign of local in- flammation and udth but little constitutional disturbance. In one or other of these ways the affection gradually creeps up the limb, invading perhaps one toe after another, involving the instep (Fig. 205), the heel, or the sole of the foot; and unless it terminate by the formation of the line of demarcation, or death put an end to the patient’s sufferings, it may extend up the ankle or leg. The part that is destroyed is always black, dry, and shrivelled, resembling closely in appearance a dried muuuny; hence the change is often termed Mummification (Fig. :206). The toes often look like the shilveiled skins of over-ripe or sucked-out black guapes. There is usually consider- able constitutional distimbance, sometimes pyrexial at first, but subsequently sinking into an irritative or asthenic form ; and the disease is often .fatal in from a month to six weeks. But this is very uncertain. I have knovm the disease to continue with -s-eiy little constitutional distiu’bance for more than twelve months, slowly creeping on during that time. In other instances, the gangrene being limited to a small extent, as to the toes only, the patient may recover with the loss of the fore part of the foot. The pathology of the arterial system, in re- ference to these forms of gangrene, will be more fuUy discussed in the first chapter of Volume II. Gaxgrene prom Obstruction op the Circulation THROUGH OR PROM A Part.—This may occui' in three ways : 1, by Venous Oistruct'ion, and consequent over-accumulation of blood ; 2, by the arrest of all the blood, arterial, venous, and capillary, as in Strancjulcdion by Pig. 26I.—Arteries a tight ligatiu’e ; 3, by Inflammation. wity°Xsteuftea 1. Venous Obstruction.—Gangrene mav ™ arise from obstruction to the return of blood through the veins of a part, the circulation being arrested by the overloading of the capillaries ivith venous blood. It is especially apt to take place if the arterial supply be diminished at the same time that the retimi of venous blood is interfered ivitli : as when an artery and vein ai-e compressed, or when the femoral vein is wounded accidentally at the time ^— ■- i- , „ j Pig. 265. — Senile Oniigi-cne: Ex- liosure of Bones of Foot. this cause IS when the artery is ligatimed. Gangrene from always of the moist kind, attended by much cedema, with discoloration and rapid putrefiiction of the part. , , '-^'his gangrene fr-om venous obstruction is also especiallv apt to occur m those cases in which the heart’s action is weakened so tlvH arterial system is so loivered as to be unable to I hose cases of gangrene of the push the blood through the loaded veins.