ORIGIN OF CANCER. 797 sliccl ili wandering cells into neighbouring areolar spaces, to dittnso or transude its juice into contiguous lymphatics. From the very first day of its formation Xin the very fii^t of the multiplication of its cells-that highly organised but fatal mioTatiiig cell may have started on its travels into areolai spaces, caiTicd on by amoeboid movements, but capable of self-support whenever arrested, there developing by an inherent and active vitality of its ovm-, ex- citino- the neighbouring arteries to furnish it with an ever increasing vascularity, and hi its new liaMut developing into a fresh cancerous centre, capable in its turn of the same process of multiplication and of local infection, which maybe indelinitely extended ; capable also, probably, of entry into the vessels, of being ciu-ried through them to distant organs, and deposited in them, like pyemic embola, forming centres of arrest and of deposit, and of multiple and new growths in the lungs or liver. _ It is this early and rapid tendency to the dissemination of cancer conse- quent on the want of an enveloping capsule, that leads to the supposition of its being constitutional. For the system may become permeated by cells shed from the parent primary tumour, before this has attained sufficient size to attract serious attention, if indeed, it has been observed at aU. But cases frequently occur in which cancer can be distinctly traced to some local cause, being immediately occasioned by a blow, injury, or other violence, or by a long-continued irritation of the part that eventually becomes affected. Thus a blow on a woman’s breast may give rise to cancer of the mamma ; and the in’itation of a broken tooth may occasion it in the tongue. It is disputed whether external causes of this kind can give rise to the production of cancer, without the previous existence of constitutional predisposition. That cancer, even when apparently excited by local causes, may in reality be of constitu- tional origin, cannot admit of a doubt; more especially in those cases in which it is hereditary, or in which it makes its appearance almost simultaneously in different parts of the body, -with a strongly marked cachexy. But in many other instances it certainly appears as if it were strictly local in its origin, as when it slowly occurs after the infliction of some violence, and ndthout any evidence of constitutional disturbance or contamination. We commonly see, for instance, a woman in perfect health receive a blow upon the breast, which gives rise to some passing inconvenience at the time; after a lapse of some months, though still with an unimpaired state of health, she notices a small hard lump. This eveiitually proves to be a scirrhous tumour. It may con- tinue stationary, or but slowly increase for months or years, until the turning point comes, at which the disease begins to contaminate the skin or the lymph- atics, and to be carried into the system, producing cachexy and giving rise to a tendency to the production of those secondary deposits of wliich we shall speak presently. In such a case as this, it is impossilfle to look on the cancer as of constitutional origin—that is, as arising from a manifest pre-existent morbid condition of the blood. Still it is difficult to nnderstaud, why an injury should in one person be followed by mere hypertemia and the conse-