lUIEUMATIC PARALYSIS. 9°3 severe pain is cxi^erienccd about the joint, followed by inability to use it freely. This disability increases until at> last the arm cannot be raised from the side, whilst all the movements of the elbow, Ibrearm, and hand, are perfect. On examining the shoulder, the following conditions will be found 1. Atrophy of the deltoid to a greater or loss extent; 2. Flattening of the posterior part of the deltoid ; 3. Increased projection of the acromion ; 4. The head of the humerus is thrown forward and somewhat inwards on to the inner edge of the glenoid cavity ; 5. The brachial terminations of the greater pectoral muscle will be found to be very tense and unyielding. All movements about the shoulder, except those in a forward direction, are lost. The condition usually occiu’S in delicate people of lax fibres. The atrophy of the deltoid is the primary condition, dependent probably on loss of power in the circumflex. In consequence of the loss of contractile poAver in the muscle, its antagonists and the pectoral especially are thrown into undue contractions. The consequence is, that the head of the bone is dragged forwards and subluxated. The Trcaiment consists in first reducing the subluxation of the bone under chloroform ; and after this has been done, in restoring the action of the deltoid by friction, douches, and galvanism. The signs of paralysis of the rmisculo-spiral nerve, either as affecting its trunk or its primary subdivisions, have been so fuUy given at p. 415, that they need not be described here. They are necessarily the same in character, though they may vary in degree, whether associated with fracture of the humerus or not. 4. Traumatic paralysis from section of a nerve has been described at p. 339. Dicif/nosis.—The diagnosis of these various forms of paralysis presents nothing that need at present detain us, as it is necessarily dependent upon, and in a great measure connected with, the cause of the affection—whether cerebral, spinal, or local. There is, however, one form of paralysis that is occasionally confounded "with the tranmatic varieties, more especially with that affecting the sciatic nerve, viz., the rheumatic. Rheumatic Paralysis is a form of disease more fr’equently spoken about than met Avith—that is to say, if we apply the term paralysis to loss of nervous power independently of inability to use the limb from muscular weakness, rigidity, or pain, or from similar conditions connected with the joints. Yet there can be little doubt that rheumatic paralysis dependent on loss of nervous power really does exist; thus it commonly arises from cold in the facial nerve, and occasionally in the sciatic and its branches. It is difficult to assign a distinct pathological cause for it : most probably it is due to compression of the nen'e by effusion within and around its sheath. It is of importance to distinguish it from paralysis arising from other causes more particularly from the traumatic forms. This may usually be very readily done by attending to two points : 1, that in the rheumatic paralysis Ave have, as a rule, co-existing or antecedent, an articular rheumatic affection of a chronic form^; and 2, that in the rheumatic form of the disease the electric irritability of the muscles is not diminished, Avhilst in the spinal and local forms it is materially diminished, or may be, indeed, entirely absent.