?66 l^RACTUJiES. points that require special attention in this respect:—I, that when the splint is flat it should be sulticicntly broad to extend to the exterior of the limb, and not to press into it ; and 2, that it should embrace securely and fix steadily the tvvo joints connected with the fi’actured bone ; if the thigh, the hip and knee ; if the leg, the knee ami ankle. From want of attention to these points of practice much trouble is often occasioned in keeping the fragments in steady apposition, and much deformity often results. It is impossible to keep the fragments perfectly immobile, and in close and accrrrate apposition, unless these very important points be attended to. Special Apparatus should be employed as little as possible in the treatment of fr-actures. It is scarcely ever necessary in simple fracture, and is iiir more cumbersome and costly than the means above indicated, which are all that can be required. I have no hesitation in saying, that a Siu’geon of ordinary in- genuity and mechanical skill may be fully prepared to treat successfully every fractiu’e to which he can be called, by haAdng at hand a smooth deal plank half an inch in thickness, and a sheet of gutta-percha, undressed sole-leather’, or pasteboard, to cut into splints as requfr-ed. To the simple means above described the Starched Bandage is an im'alu- able addition, xilthorrgh various jrlaus for stiffening and fixing the bandages in cases of fractme, by smearing themivith white of eggs, with gum, plaster of Paris, &c., hai'e been employed at various times, it is only of late years that the full value of the starched bandage has been recog- nised by Surgeons, chiefly through the practice arrd Avritings of Baron Seutirr. The adA'arrtages of the starched bandage irr the treatment of fractru’es, as well as irr marry other injrrries aird diseases, corrsist irr its takirrg the shape of the limb accrr- rately arrd readily, and maintahrirrg it by its solidity ; irr its beirrg light, irrexperr- sive, and easily applied, Avith materials that are ahArays at hand. It secrnes complete immobility of the hmb irr the position irr Avhich it dries. The joirrts irr the rreigh- boru'hood of the fractmed bone are secrrrely fixed, and the perfect adaptation or mordd- irrg of the apparatus to the inequalities of the limb prevents aU moA’emeirt. Thrrs it becomes a poAverfrd and efficient extending'^ apparatus, maintainirrg acernatelyrrot only the length brrt the normal curves of the limb. From its lightrress, it possesses the very f>-reat arrd peculiar advantage in fr-ac- Fig. rro.—Starched Bandage ai>plicd to IVactured Thigh.