DISEASES BY ABSOBPTION OF SEPTIC MATTER. 679 CHAPTER XXXI. DISEASES ARISING FROM THE ABSORPTION OF SEPTIC MATTER, OR THE PRODUCTS OF INFECTIVE INFLAMMATION. jMost Siu-g-eons include under this class Pyemia, Septicemia, and Hospital CangTcne, and some also the allied disease, Erysipelas. Before discussing this group of diseases more fully, it will be weU to consider the meaning of the terms employed. Septic (o-ijn-u, to make rotten or putrid) is used by most Awiters as almost synonymous Avith putrid; but the word is also frequently apphed to that condition of atmosphere brought about by overcrowding wounded patients, Avhich loads the air with decomposing animal products exhaled from their bodies, and effluvia fcom their discharging wounds. Thus, we speak of septic fever and septicEemia, meaning thereby, the fever or general blood- poisoning produced by the absorption of putrid (septic) matter from a wound ; and we say, a very foul ward is in a septic condition, and that the patients are exposed to septic influences. The term “infective" is used to denote ah in- flammation which, in the words of Biudou Sanderson, “ sjjreads and endures beyond the direct and primary operation of its cause, and which induces similar inflammations in other parts, and disorders the vital functions of the whole body.” It has been shown by Burdon Sanderson that this condition of infec- tiveuess may occiu in inflammations unconnected in any way vdth putrefaction. Such inflammations can be produced, experimentally, in animals, and acute necrosis of bone is a good example of them occiuring in the human subject. San- derson has also shown that all infective inflammations are characterised by the presence of minute organisms, bacteria or microzymes, in their fluid products. The poison in septic diseases is imdoubtedly a product of ordinary putrefaction; but in infective iifflammations uncomiected with putrefaction, it is supposed to be due to some j>eculiar change in the fluids of the inflamed part analogous to fermentation. What part the baeteria or microzymes take in the production of the poison, is stiU a disputed point, as is the similar question with regard to putrefaction. In actual practice, it is rare to see infective inflammations not connected in any Avay Avith the presence of putrefying discharges. For example, after an amputation, if a patient be attacked by septictemia or pyaemia at a time Avhen the discharges are in a state of decomposition, it is impossible to say Avith certainty Avhether the secondary disease is due merely to the absorp- tion of putrid matter, or Avhether some infective inflammation, specific in its nature, has given rise to a poison Avhich has infected the Avhole system. The Avell-known fact that many of the most virulent animal poisons, resulting from unhealthy inflammations, lose a considerable degree of potency Avhen alloAved