T 814 TUMOURS. considering, inasmucli as tliis partakes more of tlie characters of a local, and less of a constitutional affection, than the other forms of cancer. Constitutional treat- ment is, I belieye, as ineffectual in epithelioma as in the other forms of cancer • but early and free removal by excision or ligatm-e, or complete destruction l)y caustics, will not uncommonly permanently rid the patient of this aflection. Indeed, if the operation be done sufficiently early, I bolie^'c there is little liability to relapse. I am acquainted with several cases in which from six to ten years have elapsed from the date of the operation, vdthout a sign of a ten- dency to reciuTence of the disease. Paget refers to a case in Avhich thirty years elapsed after the removal of a scrotal cancer before the reappearance of the disease. But great risk of recurrence arises from the delay of operation and the employment of inefficient means. The operation may be successfully prac- tised at almost any age. I ha^n removed an epithelioma of the tongue from ti man 85 years of age Avith perfect success. Excision should always be preferred whenever practicable, and should be done as soon as the nature of the disease is recognised, the part being thoroughly removed together Avith a Avide margin of tissue on each side of and beneath it, so that no germs may be left from Avhich new growths may spring. When the neighboiu’ing lymphatic glands are but slightly enlarged, the operation may still be done ; the glandular enlargement, which may be dependent on iiTita- tion, gradually subsiding. If, however, the enlargement be more considerable the affected gland must be extirpated ; but if there be a chain of eidarged glands, more especially in the deeper caAities, no operation should be under- taken, as the disease Avill then have become constitutional. If the disease be situated on one of the extremities, as the hand or foot, partial or complete amputation may be the safest procedure ; and such cases are less hable to relapse than others in which such free extu'pation is not admissible. The Ligature may be advantageously employed Avhen the cancer is so situated that excision is impracticable, either on account of dangerous haemorrhage, or fr-om the impossibility of effectually extirpating the disease. The part having- been AveU insulated, and effectually strangled by stout whip-cord hgatures, sloughs and separates in a few days. By means of the Eeraseur (Fig. 318), cancroid and other groAvths of consider- Fig. 313.—Cliassaignac’s Steel Cliaiii Ecraseur.