514 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. many cases, the operation may Ije avoided by adopting the treatment re- commended by Hey, of sawing off the malleoli, removing splinters of bone, cleaning the wound, bringing together its edges by simple dressing, and sup- porting the limb at the same time upon a M‘Intyrc’s splint. If the joint be still more seriously injured, the posterior tibial artery torn, or the foot gi’catly contused, and especially if the patient be aged and his constitution shattered, rccom’se should be had to primary amputation. I believe that the disinclina- tion on the part of Surgeons to amputate in these cases, greatly oving to the strong expression of opinion by Sir A. Cooper in favour of the attempt to save the limb, has in many cases been can-ied to such an extent as seriously to add to the patient’s danger. Secondary amputation may be rendered necessary in consequence of gangrene, erysipelas, or extensive suppuration. Dislocatioxs op the Astragalus.—The astragalus is occasioually displaced from its connection with the bones of the leg above, and with those of the tarsus below, being thrown either fonvcivcls or hciclcwciTcls. The displacement forwards happens far more frequently than that in the opposite direction. In the dislocation Forwards, the head of the bone maybe thrown either outwards or inwards; but I do not think there is any evidence to show that complete lateral dislocation of this bone can occur irrespective of displacement foiwards; the so-called lateral dislocations being displacements of the bone forwards, with twists to one or the other side. The dislocation/onmrr/s, ■with lateral inclina- tion, may either be complete or incomplete. When it is complete, the bone^ is thrown out of its bed on the calcaneinn, and separated from its comiections -with the malleolar arch above and the scaphoid in front, being forced in front of the tarsus, and lying upon the scaphoid and cimeiform bones, men the disloca- tion is incomplete, the head is sepai’ated from the scaphoid, and is thi’oviiup on it or on the external cuneiform or cuboid bones, the body of the astragalus maintaining its comiections noth the malleolar arch and os calcis._ The disloca- tion Backwards is, I beheve, always complete. In the luxation backwards there is no rotation of the bone, which is thi-own directly behind the tibia, m the space between it and the tendo Achillis. , • . ^ i.i These dislocations invariably happen from falls of the foot; more particularly when it is extended upon the leg. men the foot is m th s nnsition the lower end of the tibia either breaks off on the apphcation of si^ iient Holence, or the head of the astragalus is forced out of the cavity of the scaphoid and its bed on the os calcis; the particidar kind tho«g. i. l.a.e not couple.,.