SPECIAL AMPUTA TIONS. 68 Fijr. 25 sho^\’s tlic hand aftei* Fig. 20. —Hiiiul after tion of Metacaiiwl Bones Fii-st Two Fingers. Aniinita- and Fig. 27.—Hand after removal of Jletaearpal Bones and Three Fin- gers, leaving Thumb* and Little Finger. joint, and turning ont the hone (Fig. 24). amputation of the thumb. The Metacarpal Bones, with or Avithont the fingers supported Ijy thenv oc«asionally require remoA al for disease or injury. For these operations, Avhich are not of a A'ery regular kind, it is difficult to lay doAvn definite rules ; in perfonning them, care should be taken to make good square flaps of sufficient size, but to aA'oid cutting into the palm if possible. It is Avell not to dis- articulate the lower end of the bone, so as to open the Avrist- joint, but rather to cut it off AAlth bone-forceps a little aboA'e this. In injuries from the exiAlosiou of poAvder-flasks or gun-baiTels,when the hand is much shattered, it is of gToat consequence to aA’oid cutting up the palm to too great an extent; and it is AA'ell in these cases to saA'O a finger if possible, AAdiich will be of more use to the patient than any artificial limb, however ingeniously constructed (Figs. 20 and 27). When only one finger is left, as the index or little finger, AAdth the thmnb, in cases of partial amputation of the hand after injury or for disease, the digit that remains not only becomes more mobile than tonnerly, but gTeatly increased in size and much stronger’, so that its ntihty is materially augmented. The mortahty after amputation of the fingers and metacarpal bones is A'ery trifling. Should death rmfortunately occirr after such a slight operation, it woidd probably be by the accidental occruT-ence of some general disease, such as erysipelas, pyaemia, or tetanus, to which eA'ei’y wound renders a patient liable. An excellent strmrp may in some cases be obtained by amputating betAA'eeu the carpus and metacarpus. All the movements of the AA iist-joint remaining perfect, a A'ery rrsefrd artificial hand carr be easily applied. Amputation at the Wrist is not very ofteir reqrrired. In performing: disarticrrlatiorr at this joint, its pecrrliar shape, AA-itlr the corrAexity looking upwards, must be borne in mind. The operation may be performed in two Avays, the chief flap being errt either from the dorsal or palmar srrrfiice. In the first case, it is best performed by Teah's method (Fig. 28). A perfecHy square flap, whose form sides are equal in length to half the circimrference ot the limb at the level of the AA-r’ist-joint, is raised irom the back of the hand. It mrrst consist of skin arrd fat only, the extensor tendons being left on the hand. A short palmar flap, also composed of skin and fat only, and eqrral m length to one-qrrarter of the dorsal flap, is now raised. The extensor tendons may now be diA'idcd at the level of the Avrist, and the joint opened and dis- articulated. Lastly, both flaps being held Avell back, the flexor tendons aic smoothly diA'ided with a single SAveep of the knife. The flaps must be brong i