807 result of operation on GxiNGER. „ n,-t fhc -iircction is not in all cases constitutional, and that, if happily r 1 sl“l„„ving it during its local condition th™ is a go^d p.- f fimf tVio nifcicnt may be rescued from a return of the affection. p sirtcs that he has perfectly cured patients by the removal of cancerous tumours -at least, that no return has taken place for 12,15 or 20 years extuTa^ The evidence of Brodie on this point is extremely valuable ; Aviitin„ in 1840, • L a ei-iloo tint “So Ion" a"0 as 1832,1 removed abreast that eminent Surgeon states, that &o ion„ „ _ , affected ivitli a scinhons tnmoiii-, and the lac y is still m tsOp Avas so last year Since the operation she has married, and had chiicUen. Tnst icai-1 was^called to see a lady on account of another complaint, on ivhom I ptflZcd tlTe oim-ation thirteen years ago, and found that she continued Le ft-om the old Lease ; and, Tciy lately, I have heard of another lady vtase scirrhous breast I removed six years ago, and_ Avho_ continues well. T opinion of Fergusson is also very positive on this point and he speaks in < tone with which I perfectly agree. He says ; ‘‘ Nevertheless, as excision gives the only chance of seciirity-a point on ivhich most pm-ties seem to a^ee-an operation should alivays be resorted to, proAuded the knife can be carried b jond the supposed Mmits of the disease ; and, moreover, I deem it one of the diffies of the practitioner to lU’ge the patient to submit to such a proceeding, opinion of these eminent Siwgeons, supported as it is by the general practice of the profession, tends to show that in some cases, at least, the disease may le extirpated fr’om the system by excising the tumour before the constitution has become impheated. , tj, , ^ a 2. If cancer cannot be actuaUy cured by excision, may not life be prolonged and health improved by an operation ? , , . • t I am decidedly of opinion that this is possible ; and that, though a patient may at last be carried off by some of the reemrent forms of cancerous disease, health may have been improved, life may haA^e been prolonged, and much suffering may have been spared, by a timely operation.^ It may often be observed that, after the cancer has been removed, the digestion becomes stronger and the patient gains flesh ; the colour of the complexion retiu’ns, and the spirits greatly improve ; the system being relieA'ed from a source of local irritation, and the mind fr’om a cause of disquietude that has undermined the general health of the patient. This is more particularly the case in encephalokl cancer, in AAfrich early remoA'al of the disease is luiqiiestionably successful, in many cases, in prolonging life. The observations of Paget on this point are peculiarly A’aluable. He states the aA^erage dimation of life of those patients laboinlng under this form of disease, in Avhom the primary affection is removed, to bo about twenty-eight months ; AA'hilst the aA^erage life of those in Avhom the disease is allowed to run its course, is not more than tAA’o years. I think that the introduction of ana3sthetic agents into operative surgery has very materially affected the bearings of this important question. So long as an operation Avas a source of great pain, and of much consequent anxiety and dread, a Surgeon might very properly hesitate to subject his patient to severe suffering Avith so doubtful a result ; but noAV that a patient can be freed by a painless procedure fr-om a source of great and constant annoyance, discomfort, and suffering, the Surgeon may feel himself justified in thus affording