466 JJISLOCATIONS. luimerus, aiKl at least \n the foraur, in attempts at rcclucin<r old dislocatrans ot these bones _ In most of the recorded cases the bone has I caddy ranted and the condition of the patient has not been materially, if at all influenced for the Avorse, except that reduction of the dislocation has neces- sarily been rendered impossible. 9. Neighbourino- bones have been fractured, simh as the ribs and the glenoid cavity in the endeavour to reduce dislocation acetabuhun in attempted reduction of a luxated hip. 10. The hmb has actually been torn off. This remarkable and distressiiio- accident happened to Guerin of Paris, in attempting the reduction withoirt pulleys, and mcrety by the traction of assistants, of a dislocation of the shoulder of three months’ standing, in a Avoman G8 years of age, the limb being sud- denly torn off at the elboAAV On examination, the bones Avere found porous, the muscular and other soft structm-es pulpy, the limb haniig thus evidently lost its natural strength and elasticity. The occuiTence of these various accidents and injuries, in the attempted reduction of old dislocations, cannot ahvays be justly attributed to the employ- ment of an improper degree of force by the Sm-geon. The liability to them must rather be looked upon as a necessary and ineAutable accompaniment of all attempts at putting back into its jilace a bone AAdiich has been dislocated, and left unreduced for many Aveeks or several months. During this period the bone usually contracts adhesions of a A'ory dense kind to the parts amongst Avhich it lies ; and, as it cannot be replaced in its articular caAity until these adhesions have been torn or broken through, it is easy to understand hoAV, in the attempt to do this, neighbouring soft parts, A'essels, or neiTes may give Avay, or the bone itself may yield to'the force that must be apiflied to it in order to lift it-out of its iieAV bed. The liabihty to the occurrence of these accidents should make the Surgeon very cautious hoAV he reconunends the attempt at the reduction of old-stauding- dislocations. If after a time the neA\^ joint haA’e become tolerably mobile, and be not painful, it may be better to leaA'e the bone unreduced, rather than expose the patient to great risk, Avith a slender prospect of CA'entual success. If the unreduced dislocation be stiff and painful, much may be done by passiA'e motion, frictions, and douches, to improve the patient’s condition. The Subcutaneous Section of muscles, tendons, and bands of adhesions in the neighborahood of the dislocated joint, has been proposed by Dieffenbach as a means of facilitating reduction in old-standing cases ; and he relates an instance in Avhich, by these means, a shoulder that had been dislocated for tvo years Avas reduced. In many cases in Avhich this plan has been tried, the success has not been commensurate AA'ith the expectations raised respecting it; and in other instances, of AA'hich I haA’e seen tAvo or three, the operation has been folloAved by sloughing and other serious CA’ils, AA'hile it has not been attended by any benefit in facihtating reduction. CoMPOiiN'D Dislocation is one of the most serious injmles to AA’hich a limb can be subjected. Not only is there such extensfr’e laceration of the soft parts that coA’er and enter into the formation of the joint as to giA’C rise to the most severe forms of traimiatic arthritis, but the bones are often fractured, and the main A’essels of the limb perhaps greatly stretched or torn. The Treatment of a compound dislocation must be conducted on the