SCROFULOUS TEMPERAMENT. 821 influence the products of nutrition and of inflammation, more particularly during the early periods of life, when these actions arc most energetic, 111 such a way as to render its existence evident to the Surgeon. It is this tendency to the occun-ence of particular diseases, and to the engi’afting of special characters on atiections of certain tissues, that may be considered as specially indicative of the existence of the scrofulous diathesis ; the existence of which is, more- over, marked by the presence of a peculiar temperament. The Scrofulous Temperament assumes two distinct forms, the fair and the dark, and each of these presents two varieties, the fine and the coarse. The most common is that which occurs in persons with fliir, soft, and trans- parent skin, having clear blue eyes Avith large pupils, light hair, tapering fingei-s, and fine Avhite teeth ; indeed, whose beauty is often great, especially in eaidy life, being dependent rather on roundness of outline than on grace of form ; and Avhose groAvth is rapid and precocious. In these individuals the atiections arc strong, and the procreative power considerable ; the mental actiAuty is also great, and is usually characterised by much delicacy and soft- ness of feeling, and Auvacity of intellect. Indeed, it would appear in such pemons as these, that the nutritive, procreative, and mental poAvers are rapidly and energetically developed in early life, but become proportionately early exhausted. In another variety of the fair scrofulous temperament, we find a coarse skin, short and roimdecl featimes, light grey eyes, crisp and curhng sandy hair, a short and somewhat ungainly statime, and clubbed fingers ; but not un- commonly, as in the former variety, great and early mental activity, and occasionally much muscular strength. In the dark form of the scrofulous temperament, we usually find a somewhat heavy, sullen, and forbidding appearance ; a dark, coarse, sallow, or greasy- looking skin ; short, thick, and harsh ciuly hair ; a small stature, but often a powerful and strong-limbed frame, A\dth a certain degree of torpor or languor of the mental faculties, though the powers of the intellect are sometimes re- markably developed. The other dark strumous temperament is characterised by clear dark eyes, fine hair, a salloAv skin, and by mental and physical organisation that closely resembles the first described variety of the fair strumous diathesis. In all these varieties of temperament, the digestive organs will be found to be Aveak and inntable. This condition, which I believe to be invariably asso- ciated Avith struma, and the importance of which has been pointed out by Sir James Clark, must be regarded as one of the most essential conditions con- nected Avdth scrofula, and as tending greatly to that impairment of nutrition Avhich is so frccpient in this state. This gastric irritability is especially characterised by the tongue, even in young children, being habitually coated toAvards the root Avith a thick AA^hite fur,, through which elongated papillm pro- ject, constituting the “ pipped ” or “ strawbeny ” tongue ; the edges and tip, as Avell as the lips, being usually of a bright red colour. This state of the tongue is aggi-avated by stimulants, high living, and the habitual use of pur- gatives. In the fair varieties the boAvels are usually someAvhat loose, but in the dark foims of struma there is a torpid condition of the intestinal canal. In all cases the action of the heart is feeble, the blood is thin and Avatery, and there is a tendency to coldness, and often to clamminess of the extremities.