FRAC TUBES. 354 It is important to distinguish between fi’acturcs that are primarily eompoiuid, that is, tliat are compound from the fii’st or become so within a few days, and those in which a wound leading to the broken bone forms some time after the accident, as the result of iuflamniation, suppuration, and sloughing, or from other causes. A\Tien the fracture becomes compound secondarily, the danger is greatly lessened, on account of the reparative tissue that has formed at the broken ends of the bones closing up the medullary aTid Haversian canals, and by that means diminishing tbe risks of severe inflammation of the bone, pymmia, and the absorption of septic matters. A fi-actiu’e is said to be Complicated when the injury to tbe bone is con- joined ■with other conditions which are perhaps of more importance than the mere fractiu’e, the complication constituting often the most serious part of the injiuy, and influencing greatly the general result of the case. Thus, a fracture may be complicated with injiuy of an important internal organ, as of the brain, lungs, or bladder ; the injiuy to the organ being inflicted by the pro- jection against it of one of the broken fragments. A fractine is not luifre- quently compheated vith the wound of one of the principal arteries of the part, as happens especially in the leg, where the tibial arteries, being in close contact with the bone, are often tom by the broken ends. In other cases, again, the fractiu-e is associated vith injmy of a joint or ivith dislocation. Besides these varieties of fi'actiu-e, it occasionally happens that a bone is only cracked, or paiiiaUy broken. This especially occurs in the bending of bone in children, ui which cases the fracture may be Partial or Incomplete, merely extending across the convexity of the ciuve made by the bone. This is some- ■ times called the “ fjreen-stich” fr'actime. Direction.—The direction assumed by fr’actmes varies greatly, and de- pends materially on the cause of the injiuy, as well as upon the bone that is fr’actimed. The line of fr'acture may riui through a bone in three different dhections : eithei' trcciisvcrscly, oiliyuely, or lonyitudinally to its axis. The Trans'verse Fracture is the simplest, and is seldom compheated u ith injiuy to the neighboining parts. It chiefly occins in children, and very fr’e- quently between the articular extremity and the shaft of a bone ; it imites readily, and is attended by but little displacement. It is most commonly the result of direct violence, but it may arise from muscular action, as in the case of the patella, which is usually broken in this way. The Oblique Fracture commoidy occurs from indirect violence ; the break- ino- force being applied to the ends, and not across the shaft. It often rims a lono- way, more than half the distance of the shaft of a bone, and is more daimerous than the transverse, owing to the obliquity of the fr-acture causing the ends of the bone to be sharply pointed (Fig. 137, a), and thus fr-equently to punctiu-e the skin, or to perforate an artery. It is more tedious in its cure than the transverse, omng to the extent of surface over which Piocess ot repair has to be earned on, and the difficulty of keeping the fragment chjtly in apposition ; hence, also, there is a greater liability to ^ limb. It is principally met with in the shafts of the long bones of adults and fl’he Longitudinal Fracture consists of a splitting or fissuring of a bone