PLASTER OF PARIS BANDAGE. 3^9 of the leg, and many chikli’en, with fractui’cs of the thigh, as out patients. From no other means of treatment have I seen such satishictory results in cases of fractiu-ed thigh, as from the starched apparatus ; patients having frequently been cured without any appreciable shortening, with the pre- servation of the natm-al cur\-e of the bone, and without confinement to bed after the first Aveck. In compound fr’actures also of the leg, and eA'eii of the thigh, I have ob- tained most satisfactory results fr-om this means. In compound fractures of the leg, I have seen the patient Avalking about on crutches as early as the tenth or fourteenth day, the limb being securely put up in starch ; and have more frequently succeeded in getting union of the woiuid, and consequently in conA'erting the compound into a simple fracture, by putting up the limb in this apparatus than in any other. Glue may be substituted for starch in stiffening the fracture apparatus. The glue used for this pm-pose should be prepared by making a strong solution of the best French glue, and then adding to this about one-eighth of spirits of wine. This mixture may then be thickly brushed over the bandage. After di-ying, the apparatus should be cut up, trimmed, and fixed on by straps, lacings, or bandages, as most convenient. It possesses the advantages over the starched bandage of drying more quickly, and of being lighter and more elastic, but it is not so strong or so Avell adapted for pmqooses of support when the whole of a muscular limb or large joints have to be included. The Plaster of Paris Bandage may often be advantageously used as a substitute for the starched apparatus. It may be apphed in one of the three following ways. 1. A bandage of coarse soft muslin has dry plaster of Paris thoroughly rubbed into its meshes : it is then rolled up, and some cold water is poured upon each end of it so as to moisten it through. A dry flannel roller having- been previously applied to the limb, the Avetted plaster bandage is smoothly rolled over it, the Siu-geon taking care that no reverses are made. In order to avoid these, it may be applied in a spnal or figure-of-8 manner over the more unequal parts. Sli^Ds of the plaster bandage should also be laid on AA^here additional strength is required, and the AA'-hole well wetted from time to time during the application. It hardens in the course of a fcAV minutes, and, as it dries, forms a solid, hard, and light casing to the limb, affording excellent support to the fracture. The plaster bandage possesses the advantage over the starched apparatus of being lighter, and especially of drying and hardening vepy quickly quahties AA'hich render it invaluable in cases in Avhich it is neces- saiy to can-y patients any distance immediately after the setting of the fractm-e. 2. Neudorfer is a strong advocate for the employment of the plaster of a,ris bandage. Ho recommends that it should be applied immediately (on s he lays great stress), in the folioAving Avay. ComiDresses of linen, or of mt, are dipped in plaster of Paris of the consistence of a common poultice, ese are then placed longitudinally on the lijnb, first on the upper, then on e lUKler part. A fcAV turns of a bandage keep them in siiii till the plaster is fir o d s contiguous edges from adhering, they are slightly greased, ‘ slip of greased lint is put betAvecn them. VOL. I. B B