35S FRACTURES. There are, however, two conditions that render tlie detection of a simple fracture occasionally difficult. The first is, when only one of two, or several contiguous bones is broken ; the other, the impaction of the frag^nents. When only one bone is broken in a situation where there are two or more, as in the leg, forearm, metacarpus or metatarsus, very close and careful mani- pulation of the injiu-ed bone may be required. The Siu-geon rnust run his finger carefully over the most projecting ridge, feel for slight inequality or oedema at one part, or perhaps he may elicit the faintest occasional crepitus on fully and deeply mo’ving the bone at the seat of suspected fractmu. In the case of impaction the diagnosis is even more difficult. Here no crepitus, and no preternatural mobility, can be foimd ; but the Siu’geon must be led to his diagnosis by the recognition of the pecuhar displacement and distortion which may be characteristic of the particular fractine, as, for instance, the deformity of the wrist in impacted fractine of the lower end of the radius. The difficulties of diagnosis in fractine of a single bone, or in an impacted fractine, are necessarily most seriously increased if there be much extravasation of blood into the limb ; or, when the fracture is through an articulated end, if there should be much effusion into the neighboining joint. As has already been stated, the existence of a fractine when compound, and more particularly .if comminuted, is usually readily determined. Here, the great mobility, the protrusion of fragments or sphnters, and the ready crepitns, inU seldom allow the Surgeon to be in error. Should any doubt exist, the introduction of the finger into the woinid ivill enable him to determine noth certainty, not only the existence, but the condition and extent of the fractine. But mth all the assistance that may thus be afforded, the very existence of a bad compound and comminuted fr’acture may be imsusj)ected for many days, even though most careful examinations have been made vdth the view of ascer- taining its presence. Of this important fact, which may have weighty bearings in medico-legal investigations, the following case is a good illustration. A young man was shot noth a wooden rannod through the left hand and shoulder, by the accidental exj)losion of his gun whilst he was loadmg it. The rami-od struck the humerus three inches below the shoulder-joint, full on its fore part. It was splintered against the bone, the fragments passing on each side, and mostly escaping through two apertmes of exit posteriorly; some passing to the iimer side between the large vessels and the bone, the others to the outer side between it and the deltoid. The patient was brought to the Hospital, where I saw him a few hours after the injury, and, enlarging the iroimds, extracted a number of splinters of the rannod fr’om around the bone. The limb was carefully examined, not only by me, but by several other Smgeons present, to determine whether the bone had been fractined, or the joint injm-ed. There was no sign of fr-acture to be detected—no shortening, no mobility, no crepitus, no inequality when the fingers were fr’eely passed into the wounds, no displacement at all. As no fr'acture appealed to ® limb was laid on a pillow, and irrigation employed. Erysipelas set m, followed by extensive and deep suppuration in the limb. On examining tus, wi e view of giving a free exit to the discharges, eight days after the accicent, is placement and crepitus were for the first time found, and it became evi eii