255 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF BURNS. Incoming, after a time, puckered uj), and much indurated. This j)rocess of contraction and hardening, which begins immediately on the completion of cicatrisation, continues for many months, giving rise fi’equeutly to the most distressing deformities, and to the complete loss of motion and iTse in parts. These cicatrices ai-e fibro-plastic, and often extend deeply between and mat together the muscles, vessels, and soft structiu-es of a limb, of the face, or of the neck. The Constitutional Effects resulting from bum are most serious and' important; they depend not so much upon the depth of the injuiy as upon its situation, the extent of surface implicated, and the age of the patient. Thus a pei-son may have his foot completely charred and burned off by a stream of molten iron riuming over it, -with far less constitutional distiubance and dano-er than if the smfrice of the trunk and face be extensively scorched to the fii'st and second degrees ; bm-ns about the chest, the head, and the face, beino- far more likely to be attended by serious constitutional mischief than similar injiuies of the extremities. In children, the system generally suffers more severely from bimis than in adidts. The fever that sets in may be due to several causes, such as reaction after extreme piimary depression, local inflam- matory lesions, and the retention in the blood of waste jiroducts in consequence of the arrest of the cutaneous secretion in the burnt parts. The constitutional disturbance induced by burns, in whatever degree, may be divided into tiu’ee stages : 1, Depression and Congestion ; 2, Eeaction and Inflammation ; 3, Suppuration and Exhaustion. 1. The stage of Depression of the Nervous System and Congestion of Internal Organs, occupies the first forty-eight hoius; dining which, death may occur before inflammatory action can come on. Immediately on the receipt of a severe bimi the patient becomes cold and collapsed, and is seized Avith fits of shivering, which continue for a considerable time. He is evidentlv suffenng froni the shock of the injiny ; the severity of the shivering is usually indicative of the extent of the constitutional disturbance, and is more prolono-ed m those injimes that occupy a gi-eat extent of sinface, even though it be oW burnt to the first or second degree, than in those which, being of more limited superficial extent, affect the tissues deeply. On the subsidence of the symp- toms of depression there is usually a period of quiescence before reaction cSs on; and dining this period the patient, especiaUy if a child, not iinfr-equently dies comatose; death resulting from congestion of the brain and itlmej- branes, vuth, perhaps, serous efilision into the ventricles or the arachnoid esides these lesions, the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines as ivelj as the substance of the limgs, is usually found congested. The pathological phenomena of this period are altogether of a cono-estive character. Of 15 cases m which the contents of the cranium were examined ® membranes, with serous effusion ifralfr 14 of these cases the thoracic viscera were found to be cono-estecl in 0’ healHy in 0 ; and of 14 in which the abdominal organs were examined com ges 1011 0 he gastro-mtestmal mucous membrane was found in 12 cases and a healthy condition 111 two only. ^ Ihe next stage, that of Reaction and Inflammation exfpud<! j-i Boeond day to the second week. In it. imtative fever sets’ in earlyf^th a