689 CAUSES OF ERYSIPELAS. lias habitually been exposed, or by which he is surrounded after the injury or operation to which he has been subjected. I. Intrinsic Causes.—The great iwedisposing cause of erysipelas is to be sought for and will be found in a want of atteniion to hijcjienic conditions. It is one of the penalties inflicted by natine on those who neglect those prime requisites of health—temperance and cleanliness, or who are incapable of ob- taining good food and pure air. '^V’ere the laws of hygiene attended to as they should be, erysipelas and the allied diffuse inflammations would rarely be met with in surgical practice. Some persons appear to be naturally predisposed to erysipelas to so great a degree, that the application of cold, or slight stomach- derangement, or a triiral superficial injury, may excite it. This predisposition is most generally acquired by habitual derangement of health, and is especially induced by any of the depressing causes of disease, such as over-fatigue, anxiety of mind, night-watching, and habitual disregard of hygienic rules as to diet, exercise, air, &c. The habit of body, however, in which erysipelas is most frequently met Anth as a consequence of very trivial exciting causes, is that Avhich is induced by the habitual use of stimulants to excess. It is more especially in that state of the system characterised by an admixtime, as it were, of instability and of debihty, in which inflammation is not followed by the deposition of plastic lymph, but has a rapid tendency to the formation of pus and slough, and to extension of disease in a diffuse form, that erysipelas is very readily induced. This state is met with amongst the laboiu’ing poor, as the result of the privation of the necessaries of life, conjoined with the habitual over-use of stimulants and exposure to the various depressing conditions of bad food, impiu’e afr, &c. Amongst the wealthier classes it occurs as a consequence of high living, want of exercise, and general indulgence in luxurious and ener- vating habits. Some diseased states of the Ulood appear to predispose, in the highest degree, to the supervention of erysipelas. This is especially the case in diabetes, and in disease of the kidneys attended by albuminuria. As a consequence of renal disease, erysipelas often occiu’s idiopathicaUy, or from the most trivial causes ; such as a scratch, the sting of an insect, or any of the minor operations in surgery, more especially about the lower part of the body. Not only is it readily induced in this AA'ay, but it will extend in an uncontrollable manner in t cse states of the system, and Avill often assume a gangrenous form, there being apparently na utter want of limiting or reparative power in any inflammation, however set up. Persons of a gross and plethoric habit, with a tendency to gout, are predisposed to the occm-rence of erysipelas. The blood-degeneration that attends malignant disease peculiarly disposes to erysipelas, Avhich accord- ing y more frequently takes place after operations on persons having such diseases than after the removal of simple tiunours. Persons whose nervous systems ai'o habitually depressed, the semi-idiotic and idiotic for instance, are very prone to low diifrise and sloughing inflamma- tions of an erysipelatous form. patient circmnstances that surround the atmnQr.h ’ pvoductioii of this disease, season of the year and atmospheric changes exercise a marked influence. Erysipelas I nsnn v suppos^e^^ to JO more frequent in the spring and autumn, and the experience at Y Y