INFLAMMATION. 112 arc seen irregular projections from the walls of the A'essels. These projections go on increasing, and some of them soon separate themseh'es, and may be seen in the adjacent tissue as nnmistakable red corpuscles. Strieker, who, Avith Tvblliker, Sharpey, Billroth, Bastian, and others, confirms Cohnheim’s obser- A'ations, says that the injection of 10 per cent, solution of chloride of sodium favoms the passage outAvards of the red corpuscles so much as to cause hasmor- rhagic maculae. Cohnheim belieA'es that the amount of red corpuscles which thus escape, A'aries with the number of capillaries possessed by the inflamed organ; being' greater, for instance, in pneumonia than in inflammation of the mesentery. The passage of the white corpuscles tlirough the Avails of the A'essels is described as taking place in the folloAving manner. If the AA'hite corpuscles be carefully watched, some of them may be seen, after a short time, to pass through the wall of the vein against Avhich they haA'e been collected. This passage through is accompanied by striking amoeboid changes of shape. A small knob may be seen, for instance, outside the Avail, opposite to a spot Avhere a white corpuscle is chnging to it AAithin. The knob outside gTOWs laro’cr and larger, Avhile the corpuscle inside becomes smaller, till it finally A'anishes by passing altogether through the AA'all. In the capillaries, both red and white corpuscles pass out: in the veins only the latter. We shall have to refer again to this migration of the Avhite coi-puscles Avhen we come to speak of suppuration, in AAhich process it appears to bear an important part. Regarding the manner in which the corpuscles escape through the nnruptured walls of the vessels, there is not as yet an agreement among those who admit the occurrence of the migTation. Cohnheim, for instance, says that they pass by their amoeboid movements through stomata betAveen the endothehal cells of which the vascular wall is composed, and that their exit is aided by pressure : Strieker and Prnssak describe the process as effected by an “ active state ot the wall of the vessel, which consists of a homogeneous extensile protoplasm. Bastian ascribes the migration to amoeboid movements of the corpuscles, such as were described in 1863 by Recklinghausen ; and Bfflroth conjectm-es that the emigration of the colourless corpuscles may be facihtated by softeinng ot the vascular walls. , , Associated Avith the migTation of the white and red corpuscles thiou^h t^ walls of the vessel, is an exudation of a highly albuminous and fibrinous fliiic, derived from the liquor sanguinis, and knoAAui as mflammatory effusion. The fluid Avhich thus SAveats, as it were, fr-om the vessels of inflamed tissue, is rici in cells and molecules. The question of the origin of these cell-structm-es in inflalnatoiy effusions is a vexed one, and has at different periods received different answers. According to one school of pathologists, o Rokitansky, Hughes Bennett, and Paget, may be regarded tatives, the molecides first form in the plastic or coagidablc , molecules then aggregate themsefres into eb !!iipo-pd'that the cells into cells YirchoAv, however, has opposed this view, and allege c ™ llHplieation p™life.atiou of the ' inflametl part, and never from a spontaneons generation m the ete^ Even this explanation, which gainocl in a short '' of his reeived a nicle shook when Colinheini, in 18C7, p.iW.shed an aceotmt of his