INFLAMMA TION. •T lO ACUTE INPLAMMATIOX. The forms of local lijpeimmia—Congestion and Deteimination—described •above, arc essentially characterised by an increase in the quantity of blood in the part. In congestion, the quantity of blood is increased, but its motion is retarded : in determination, there is an enlargement of the vessels, and an accelerated floAV through them of an increased quantity of blood. In Inflamma- tion, there are in addition certain changes in the vessels, m the blood, and in the adjacent tissues, which give to it its distinctive characters. The phenomena of inflammation, as studied in the transpai’ent tissues of some of the lower animals, such as the wing of the bat, or the web of a frog’s foot, or the mesentery of the same animal, are as follows. On the application of an irritant, such as the point of a needle or a weak solution of salt or cold Avater, there is produced momentary contraction of the small arteries, followed by dilatation ; the veins also become dilated ; the flow of blood, which is at fu-st accelerated, soon becomes retarded; and stasis or stagnation occiu-s at points, commencing in the capillaries, and extending to the veins and arteries. At the points of stasis, there is an aggregation of the red and the white cor- puscles of the blood, which appear to block up the vessels ; the red corpuscles, according to Cohnheim, chiefly occupying the aiferies, and the white ones the veins. Aromid the centre of stagnation there is a retarded floAV of blood, in Avhich inflammatory area the corpuscles are seen to move languidly; and beyond this there is a rapid rush of an increased quantity of blood. These are the gene)-al phenomena presented by the blood-vessels and then- contents in an inflamed part when observed under the microscope. But in order to become acquainted with all the details of the inflammatory process we must analyse the condition of (1) the vessels, (2) the Uood, and (3) the tissues. 1. Vessels.—The observations of Wharton Jones on the frog’s foot, of Paget on the baf’s wing, of Cohnheim on the mesentery of the fr-og, and other similar investigations, agree in showing that one of the initial phenomena of inflam- mation is dilatation of the small vessels. But whether this dilatation be primary or not, appears to depend greatly on the nature of the stimidant applied, and on other circumstances that cannot be readily appreciated. Some- times the enlargement is seen to be preceded by temporary contraction; as Avhen the part is imtated Avith the point of a needle, or by the application of a Aveak solution of salt, or cold Avater, or spirit of Avine ; Avhile dilatation without nny appreciable previous contraction is at once produced by the application of acetic acid or capsiemn (Paget), Aunum opii, or a strong solution of salt or of sulphate of copper (Wharton Jones), or by the mere exposure of the fr-og’s mesentery to the air (Cohnheim). The solid sulphate of copper produces speedy, complete, and permanent contraction. ^ ^ ^ _ The dilatation affects not only the small arteries in the immediate Aucmity of the inflamed part, but those also at a distance : this is sIioaaua by the m- •creased strength and force of the pulsation in them, as may be readdy obseiwed in the pidsation of the digital arteries in a case of whitlow. That the rapidity ■of the ciuTent of blood Ixom, as Avell as to, the inflamed part is increased, is