462 DISLOCATIONS. gentler method of manipulation, by which resistance is eluded by attention to ordinary mechanical principles, rather tlian overcome by force. When any powerful exteuding force is applied, the skiu of the part should alu-ays bo pro- tected fiom being chafed by a few turns of a wet roller. The extension must be made slowly and gradually without any jerking, so as to secure equality of motion as well as of traction. In this way the contraction of the muscles is gradually overcome, Avhereas sudden and forcible extension might excite them to reaction. The traction is most advantageously made in the newly acquired axis of the limb, without reference to its normal direction or to the situation of the joint. The head of the bone is thus made to pass along the same track w'hich it has torn for itself in being dislocated, and thus is replaced without the infliction of any additional violence on the sinrounding tissues. The question whether the extending force should be applied to the bone that is actually displaced, or to the fiu-ther end of the limb, has been much discussed, and appears to have received more attention than it deserves. It is true that, by applying the extending force to the displaced bone itself, the Surgeon has greater command over its movements, with less chance of injury to the inter- ■^•cning bones ; whilst, by applying the extending force to the lower part of the extremity, he has the advantage of a longer lever for the reduction of the head of the bone. This lever, however, it must be remembered, is in many cases a broken one ; and it caimot be made to act if the bone have to be replaced in the direction of the flexion of the joints that exist in its course. For this reason, we And that some dislocations are best reduced by applying traction to the bone itself that is displaced, as in luxations of the femim and of the bones of the fore-arm ; whilst, in other cases, as in the dislocations of the humerus, most advantage is gained by applying the extending force to the end of the limb. But I look upon these points as of comparatively little consequence ; believing that, Avhen the patient is not anassthetised, the muscles of the limb themselves effect the reduction, -without the necessity of the Surgeon employing any very powerful lever-Hke action of the bone ; and that, when the patient is paralysed by chloroform, the bone is in most cases readily replaced by the simple movements impressed directly upon it, or even upon its articular end, by the hands of the Surgeon. The force required in effecting the reduction of recent dislocations is often very considerable. So great is the resistance offered, that in some cases the dislocated bone has given way under the traction. I am acquainted with cases in which the humerus and the neck of the femin’ have both been broken in effecting the reduction of recent dislocations. This accident does not always appear to have been the result of any improper or unskilful employment of force but in some cases to have ocem-red from natm-al weakness of bone. We know that “spontaneous” fractures fi-equently take place from musculai’ action, often of a very slight kind: and we can easily understand that, if a bone that woifld be liable to such ready fracture happened to be dislocated, it would almost of necessity give way under the influence of the extending or lever-like force required to replace it. 2. The reduction of dislocations is also impeded by the mechanical resistance arising fi-om the anatomical structure of the joint and its ligaments. In reducing a dislocation, it is of especial importance to attend to the relation of the