PYyEMIA. 710 which they are exposed after the injury or operation arc ])eculiarly faulty. Tliat it may be prevented, has been abundantly proved by the experience gained in the Franco-German war of 1870. In that great struggle, the fact, which had been previously well known to all scientific Surgeons, was esta- blished beyond all possibility of cavil, that the danger of pyasmia increased, ccvtcris 2^ctribiis, in proportion as wounded patients were closely crowded, so that the atmosphere surrounding them became contaminated by morbid exha- lations from suppm-ating wounds. It was found in numerous instances that, among the great mass of the wounded, pyaemia Avas developed among those Avho were aggregated within the walls of hospitals or regular buildings, such as chiu’ches, barns, school-houses, and conservatories, which, though clean and airy, did not admit of thorough ventilation; while it was almost, if not entirely, unknown among soldiers of exactly the same class who Avere treated for their wounds in hastily constructed open and draughty huts. Indeed, there is no fact better established in surgery, than that pyEemia is the invariable result of the aggregation of the wounded, and that its develo]Dment may be prevented at any time by reference to the cubic space allotted to each patient. As this is diminished, so the disease increases ; and this, coiteri^ paribus, in an exact ratio. Pyaemia is rarely, if ever, idiopathic or primary, but occiu's as the conse- quence of preAdous inflammation of some part of the body. This inflammation may be idiopathic or the result of some Avound or injury, and in most cases it has reached the stage of suppuration before the pyaemic symptoms come on. Cases, however, have been met Avith presenting all the post mortem appeai’ances of pyaemia, in which no local source of infection could be discovered after the most careful search. These are very rare, and do not prove that pyaemia can ocem.' idiopathicaUy ; for, however careful a search may have been made, it is quite possible that the source of the disease was overlooked. Pyemia fre- quiently appears in connection Avith some low form of specific suppurative inflammation. Thus we see boils, carbuncles, diffused abscess, erysipelas of the skin, or erysipelatous inflammation of the veins or absorbents, precede and lead to its occurrence. In the vast majority of cases of pyaemia coming under the observation of the Siu’geon, the disease arises in connection Avith decomposing discharges from a wound. That is to say, at the time when the first rigor attacks the patient, the wound Avill be found to be yielding dischaige having the odour of decomposition more or less distinctly perceptible. This fact, and the results of pathological experiments on animals, have led many Surgeons to beheve that the absorption of putrid matter from a wound and its introduction into the system by means of the veins in the form of decomposing clots, is sufficient to give rise to all the symptoms of pyajmia, and that by the absolute prevention of decomposition in Avounds we may greatly dimimsb, 111 fact, almost abohsh this disease. The influence of decomposition as a cause ot pytemia has been denied, because cases midoubtedly occur m which no decom- position is present at the source of infection. This, hoAvcAci, on 3 s oaas a other poisons besides the products ot putrefaction are capable 0 pro uciiij, e series of symptoms Avhich we call pyaemia. I his mtdtei avi^ e iscusse fully imder the pathology of the disease. Pyinmia is especia j ap 0 occui, decomposing pus be confined deeply amongst the tissues and miable to get a