CICATRISATION. 165 jiTaiiulatiohs into the filaments of cicatricial tissue, which, being more closely packed and becoming di-ier, occupy less sjjace (Paget). This contraction com- mences as soon as the sore presents a tendency to cicatrise, and continues for a considerable time after this is completed. Cicatrisation advances with greatest rapidity around the edges of the sore, the centre taking the longest time to heal, in consequence of the activity of the process appearing to diminish the farther the new epidermis extends from the old tissues. Indeed, if the ulcer be large, there may not be sufficient force for the cicatrisation of its centre. A sore of a circular shape usually takes a longer time to heal than an oval or elongated one. The new cuticle is formed at the edge only, and never primarily in the centre of an ulcer, unless islands of old skin be left there undestroyed, to serve as centres of cicatrisation. It would appear to be necessary for the healing process, that granulations have some of the old textm-es to be modelled upon, fr-om the j)lastic force of which there is an impulse given that causes their dev^elopmeut into analogous structure. It is in this way that the islets of skin implanted 011 a granulating surface by “ skiu-gTafting ” act beneficially as new centres of cicatrisation. The changes taking place in a cicatrix do not cease v^dth its formation. Two jn-ocesses continue for a very considerable length of time afterwards : viz., the gi-adual contraction and the development of the cicatricial tissue. ■\Te have seen that gi’anulations tend to contract diu-ing the healing of an ulcer, and that the diminution in surface thus produced facilitates gi’eatly its cicatrisation.^ Hence a scar is never so large as the original sore. This con- traction continues, however, and does not attain its maximum until long after the completion of cicatrisation, often occasioning great puckering or deformity. The degTee of contraction depends partly on the seat of the scar, but princi- pally on the natiu-e of the agent that produced the ulcer ; if the scar be seated on a part where the skin is very tense, the contraction wiU be slight; if the skin be naturally loose, it will be considerable. The contraction that takes place in scars vvhich result from burns is greater than that in those which occur from any other cause, often producing serious deformity and gxeat distress to the patient These results do not supervene in their fuUest extent imtil after a apse of some weeks or months fr-om the infliction of the injury This con- traction would iqipear in some cases to be due, not only to the consolidation of the^texture of the scar, but to its gi-eat size. ,Further changes are wought by time in the textm-c of a cicatrix. In the first place, its tissue assimilates more and more to the normal structure of the part; and secondly, its deep attachments become more movable. When a scar IS first formed. It 18 thin, reddish, or bluish and shining, being composed of mpei-fectly developed filamentous tissue, covered by a thin epidermfc layer As It becomes older, it assumes a dead-white colom-, and becomes depressed' out’ ^ jears may be required for the change’ form Tit."' " ''0^’ sudoriferous glands nor hair