939 NJSVUS OF THE FACE. nteyns, and constitutes a somewhat formidable disease. A large pm-ple tumour is situated within the anterior fontanelle, rising and falling with the pulsations of the brain communicated to it, and becoming distended and tense when t e child cries. The tumour is evidently close upon the membranes of the brain, and may be looked upon almost as an intracranial rather than a scalp-tumour. The close proximity of the tumour to the brain and its membranes often deters practitioners from interfering with it; and I not unfxequently see cases^ in which the parents of the child hare been counselled not to allow any operation to be practised, lest death should result. Yet this tumour, so formidable hi appearance, and so deeply seated, close upon the brain, and as it were within the craniimi, may be removed with perfect safety by the ligahm. I have often tied nm^-i in this situation, and have never seen any ill consequences, not even a convulsive fit, occm\ The danger, then, fr’om the mere strangulation of the tumom- in this situation cannot be great; but there is another and a special danger, ^'iz., the risk of wounding the membranes of the brain in passmg the ligatures under the base of the tumour. If nmvus-needles or sharp-pointed instruments of any kind be used, this accident will be very hkely to occur ; and, if this were to happen, inevitably fatal consequences ufill ensue. This accident may always lie avoided by operating in the following way. A pune- ture is made in front of the tumoiu through the healthy scalp. An eyed probe, armed Avith a double ligature, is then pushed through this opening across the base of the tumoiu, and its end is made to project on the opposite side beyond it; here another puncture is made, and the probe and ligature together are drawn through. The same procediue is adopted across the tumour sideways. In this way, a quadruple ligatiue is passed across the tumoiu in two opposite directions : the ends are then disengaged, and the ligature is tightened in the ordinary way. Naevi of the Face are of very common occmrence, and usually cause much disfigurement. The treatment to be adopted necessarily varies greatly, aceord- ing to the natm’e of the mevus, whether cutaneous, subcutaneous, or both ; and especially according to its situation. The same plan, which is advan- tageously adopted in one part, may be altogether inapphcable in another. We shall, accordingly, consider the treatment of these vascular growths, as they affect the eyelids, the nose, the cheeks, and the lips. Nbbvus of the Eyelids is usually cutaneous, consisting of a discoloration or staining, as it were, of the lid, without any material swelling. Such a disease is, I think, better left untouched; it cannot, of course, be removed either by the knife or by eaustics, without producing worse results ; and, as the skin is always deeply involved, milder means are inoperative, or possibly equally destructive. I have heard of sloughing of the eyelid being occasioned by the use of astringent injections ; though, if the inevus were subcutaneous, and constituted a distinct tumour, passing perhaps into the orbit, injection with the perchloride of iron might advantageously be adopted. Nsevus of the Nose may occur in two situations—at the root, or towards the aim and apex. "When seated at the root of the nose, upon the bridge, or at the lower part of the forehead, between and perhaps extending abo\m the eyebrows, it is often subcutaneous, and may attain a very considerable magni- tude. In cases of this kind, I have found the quadruple ligature the readiest