33° WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. nuinjuicd side, aiisiiig ftom the blood in tho \\^ouiided vessel coniinuiiicatiiig’ u thrill iipwards to that contained in the vena cava. In a case related by lilor- rison, it is stated that a tnuionr, as large as the Innnan uterus at the third month of pregnancy, communicated with the injured vein. The Treatment of this disease is exceedingly unsatisfactory. Of four cases in which the external iliac artery was tied, a fatal termination occun-ed in every instance ; two of the patients dying of gangrene of the limb, and the remaining two of secondary ha3mon’hage and consecutive pneumonia. It has consecpiently been proposed by Guthile that the tumoiu- be laid open, and tho artery seem-ed above and below the aperture in it. As this plan has never been fairly put into practice, it would perhaps be useless to speculate on the chances of success likely to attend it; yet we must bear iu mind, that laying open an anem-ism of this kind in the groin is a very different matter from adopting the same pro- cediu’e at the bend of the arm, or in a situation where the Surgeon can readily command the artery on the proximal side of the sac. The gush of blood from so large an artery as the common femoral would be so great that, with whatever rapidity the operation were performed, there would be considerable risk of the patient suffering a fatal hasmorrhage, before the vessel, matted and incoi-porated as it would be with surrounding parts, could be separated and secured; and the ligatiu’e of the vessel would probably be foUoAved by gangrene of the limb. The danger of a fatal result from immoderate haemon-hage has noAv been com- pletely obviated by the use of the aorta-compressor. Vessels oe the Leg and Foot.—Deep stabs, cuts, and gunshot wounds of the leg may be followed by profuse heemoiThage from a wounded arteiy. It may not always be easy to determine with accmacy which of the arteries is Avounded: whether it be one of the tibials, the peroneal, or only large muscular branches. This is more especially the case when, in consequence of fractm-e, a pulsatory extravasation of blood fonns in the calf. When there is an open Avoimd, the direction taken by it Avill probably enable the Simgeon to solve the question. In the Treatment of arterial bleeding from the leg—^whether calf or front— the Sin-geon may, especially if it be not very profuse, try to an-est it by com- press, bandage, and position. Should these modes fail, recoiu’se must be had to operation. When the Posterior Tibial Artery is wounded, there is no reason to deviate from the usual principle of treating a primary haemon-hage fr’om a AAroimded artery, viz., to cut doAvn on the vessel at the seat of injury, and tie it above and below the woimd on it. The same rule of treatment apphes to Wounds of the Anterior Tibial and Peroneal Arteries. In performing this operation, if the posterior tibial be woimded in the upper tAAro-thirds of its course, the Siu’geou aatU have to cut freely by the side of or through the muscles of the calf. This he must do in the dfrection of their fibres, injuring them by transverse incision as httle as possible ; and, by taking the track of the woimd as his guide, the bleeding vessel wiU at last be reached, and must then be tree in the usual way. Such an operation practised on a person Avith a muscular limb that is infiltrated with blood and inflammatory effusions, is in the hig cst degree difficult. In the lower third of the leg the arteries are superficial, and reached with comparative ease.