MVUS. 936 lum-i, of wliicli 72 were cured, 3 died, and 8 were improved. There are two niotiiods hy which nmvi may be cured by the electric cautery; \iz., by electrolytic action, the ntevoid structure being gi-adually consolidated and thus removed ; and secondly, by the cauterising action of a platinum wire made red-hot. 4. ■^\hen the nmvus is large, constituting a more or less distinct tumour, and is of a somewhat venous character, it may occasionally be excised. Icale, junior, has shoAvn that some nmvi which are distinctly encapsuled may readily be dissected, or rather shelled out. Should the naevus, how- ever, be diifused, without any distinct limiting capsule, care should be taken to cut wide of the disease ; and no operation with the knife should be under- taken unless the growth be either so situated, as upon the lip, that the parts ma^ readily be brought or compressed together, or upon the nates or thigh, where it is unconnected with large blood-vessels, and is also very indolent and venous. If the naevus be arterial, or partake of the nature of aneurism by anastomosis, it should not be touched with the knife. It is especially when the nmvus is lipomatous or cystoid, or is distinctly encapsuled, that excision may be advantageously practised. 5. As a general rule, it is far safer and more convenient to extirpate the gi’owth with the ligature; and this, indeed, is the mode of treatment that is most generally applicable to tumours of this kind in whatever situations they may occur, as it effectually removes them without risk of hmmon’hage, and leaves a sore that very readily cicatrises. The ligature requires to be applied in different ways, according to the size and situation of the tumoiu-. In all cases, the best material is firm, round, compressed whip-cord. This should be tied as tightly as possible, and knotted seciu’ely, so that there may be no chance of any part of the tumour escaping complete and immediate strangulation. It is well, if possible, not to include in the noose any healthy skin, but to snip across with a pair of scissors that portion of integument which intervenes between the cords that are tied together; at the same time, care must be taken to pass the ligatures well beyond the limits of the disease. When the tumour is small, an ordinary double h'gature may be passed across its base, by means of a common suture-needle ; and, the noose being cut and the thread tied on each side, strangulation wiU be effected. lATien it is of larger size, and of round shape, the most convenient plan of strangulating the tumour is that recommended by Liston. It consists in passing, by means of long naevus-needles, fixed in wooden handles, and having the eye near their points, double whip-cord ligatures in opposite directions across the tiunoiu’; then cutting through the nooses, and tying together the contiguous ends of the ligatures until the Avhole of the groAvth is encircled and strangled by them. In doing this, a few precautions are necessary: thus, the first lueA us-necdle should be passed across the tumour unarmed (Fig. 834), and used to raise up the gTowth somewhat from the subjacent pai'ts. dhe second needle, aimed as represented in the diagram (Fig. 334), carrying the whipcord ligature by means of a piece of suture-silk, should be passed across the tumour in the opiposite direction to, but underneath, the first needle ; the aimed neepe being Avithdrawn, the ligature is caiTicd across ; and the first one, haAing been