COMPLIGATED FRACTURES. 3«r 4, Comminution or Splintering of the Broken Bono is always a serious complication of a compound fractiu’c. Here the case is \'ery different from what occiu's in similar circumstances in a simple fracture. Extensive sui^pura- tion will set in : the siffinters, if completely or nearly detached, will lose their vitality, and not only produce all the irritation that would result from the inclusion of rough and pointed foreign bodies in the interior of a limb, but, if numerous, will, on their removal or separation, leave the member shortened and permanently deformed. The treatment of such cases 'will depend on the seat of the injury, and the extent of the communition. Compomid and com- minuted fr-actiu’cs of the femur, may, except when ocemring in the upper third, generally be looked upon as cases for immediate amputation (vide p. 379) ; the only other exceptions being when the comminution is trifling, the splinters large, and lying in the axis of the bone, and the subject young. In the aiun, fore- arm, and hand, and in the leg, provided the knee and ankle-joints be not involved, much may be done in the way of removing splinters of detached bone, and sawing off smoothly the rugged ends of the fixed fragments. The larger- attached and “secondary” pieces should be left, as they wiU thi’ow out callus, and become buttresses of support to the broken bone (vide p. 361). If a con- siderable quantity of sphntered bone have been extracted from a limb, care must be taken that in putting up the fracture too complete extension is not maintained, lest a gap be left, which cannot be filled up by new bone, and a v eakened hmb result. It is better to place the bones in proper apposition, and to let the patient recover with a shortened but strong and otherwise useful hmb. 5. The compheation of a bad Compound Fracture requiring Amputation low down in a Limb, with, a Simple Fracture high up, is a serious one. The question that will here arise is : Should the amputation be performed above the compound and below the simple fr-acture, or above both ? The answer to this must depend on the condition of the hmb between the fr-actures. Suppose that there be a badly comminuted and compound fr-actme of the lower third of the leg, with a simple fractm-e of the middle of the thigh ; or a crush of the hand or fore-arm, with simple fractm-e of the middle of the humerus • how should the Surgeon act ? It appears to me that the proper course to adopt in such a case as this, would mainly depend on the conditions of the inter- mediate soft parts. If these be somid, free fr-om extravasation, not contused or lacerated, the hmb may vath safety be removed just above the lower fractm-e the upper fr-acture bemg treated on ordinary principles. But if there be exten- Mve rinsing o ^ the hmb -with ecchymosis or deep extravasation between the ac ines, then it would clearly be useless to amputate low down, as not only fl ^ ^ formed of tissues in a state of disorganisation, but sfruch!rTi^Tr^ into the extravasation, and, setting up unhealthy suppm-ation in ese, you d spread upwards to the higher fr-acture, converting it into a com- pomi one of the worst kind. In such cases, therefore, where there is extensive murfoTttV* 60ft pa-tB, it appears to me that the toiJer C. The compheation of a Dislocation high up with a had Compound