^3S VENEREAL DISEASES. rt the chancres be situated round the orifice of an elongated and ti«ht prepuce, circumcision is the best means of removing the disease and the hi- convenience at the same time. The cut surface, however, will always become infected, and requires to bo freely cauterised with nitric acid. After the slough produced by the caustic has separated, the surface may begin to granulate healthily at once, requiring but simple dressings ; but in the majority of cases it will continue in a somewhat unhealthy condition, demanding special topical applications to cause it to cicatrise soundly. If it be weak and fungating, an astringent lotion, such as the foUo^\ing, will lie found most useful R Tannin, gra. xx ; Tinct. lavandulte comp. 5ij ; Vini rubri, gh'. Ft. lotio. Or a solution of sulphate of copper may be applied, and the sore touched from time to time with nitrate of silver. If there be induration at its base, the black or yello^v wash will perhaps be found the best application that can be used. When the chancre is indurated by syphilis, no attempt should be made to bimi away the indimated base with caustic, as it will prove unsuccessful, the cause of the induration being always beyond the influence of the caustic. In these cases, the best local application is generally the black wash. In the Phageclsnic Chancre a clifferent management is required. If there be much inutability about the sore, the nitric acid cannot be borne ; and hero the best application is an opiate lotion, conjoined perhaps with small quantities of the chloride of soda. If the part require more stimulation, a few drops of the dilute nitric acid may advantageously be added instead of the chloride. In these cases, however, the application of the strong nitric acid may often be reqiu’red at a later period, on the removal of the local irritation by the topical employment of sedatives. In many cases, the local inflammatory action is best removed at first by the application of the concentrated nitric acid, this being followed by opiate lotions or emollient j)oultices, and the caustic being re- applied whenever there is a tendency to extension of the disease. In Sloughing Chancre, when the prepuce is greatly tumefied, in a state of inflammatory phimosis, and of a deep red or piuqflish colour, -ufith threaten- ing of extensive gangrenous action, a director should be passed between it and the glans penis, and the swollen prepuce slit up. In this way tension is re- moved, and the extension of the sloughing action arrested. Any chanci’e that is exposed must then be freely touched with nitric acid. Should the parts already have fallen into a state of gangrene, emolfient and antiseptic applica- tions vdll generally be found to agree best : yeast, caiTot, opiate, charcoal, or chlorinated poultices should be employed, the sloughs removed, and any paiis, as portions of the prepuce, that are partially destroyed by the gangrenous action, slit up, so as to remove tension and lessen inflammation. In cases of inflammatory sloughing of the penis, the htemorrhage, that occasionally results from some of the blood-vessels of the organ being opened by this action, may, if moderate, be looked upon as highly beneficial, inasmuch as it is often followed by an arrest of the morbid process. If, however, it occm to an alarm- ing extent, the patient should be put under chloroform and the actual cautery freely applied. This not only stops the bleeding, but arrests the progress of the sloughing action. When once the chancre is healthily granulating, it must be dressed in the same way as any common ulcer.