357 SIGNS OF FRACTURE. of bone being brought together so as to overlap one another, or on “riding,” In other cases, the shortening may be owing to the impaction of one fragment iji the other. In some cases there is preternatural separation of the fragments, the weight of the limb tending to drag the lower one dovmwards, or muscular contraction ch'aAving the upper one away fi’om it. The rotatm-y displacement is ovang to the contraction of particular sets of muscles twisting the lower fragment on its axis, as weU as producing shortening of the limb. Thus, the external rotators in intracapsular fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, and the supinators in some fractures of the radius, have a tendency to twist or rotate the lower fragment in an outward direction. 2. The occuiTcnce of Preternatural Mobility in the Continuity of a bone camiot exist without fractm-e, and separation of the fragments from one another ; hence, its presence may always be looked upon as an unequivocal sign of broken bone. But fr-actiue may exist without it; thus, it occasionally happens that fractiue takes place, and, owing to the impaction or wedging together of the fraguients, mobility is not perceived. 3. ilnother sign of much value in practice is the occurrence of Crepitus, or rather of the Grating together of the Rough Surfaces of the Broken Bone, which can be felt as well as heard on moving the limb. This grating can only occur when the fragments are movable and in contact, and is especially perceptible when the rough ends of the broken bone are directly rubbed against one another. It is not, however, an invariable accompaniment of fractiue ; being absent in some cases, in which the fracture is firmly impacted, or when the fragments are widely separated. It must not be con- founded with the crepitation that occurs in the limbs from other causes, as fr’om emphysema, or fr'om the effusion of serous fluid into the sheaths of the tendons, which gives rise to a peculiar crackling sensation, very different from the rough grating of a fr-acture. It vill thus be seen that each of these three signs, taken individually, is more or less equivocal, and that it usually requires a combination of at least two of them to determine whether fracture exists. In ascertaining the exist- ence of a fracture, the Siu’geon should make the necessary manipulations with the utmost gentleness, but yet effectually, so that no uncertainty may be allowed to remain as to the seat and nature of the injury, more especially when it occurs in the vicinity of a joint. The increased mobility may be ascertained by fixing the upper fragment and rotating the lower portion of the limb ; the gating by di’awing down the lower fragment, so as to bring the rough siu'faces into apposition, and then grasping the limb at the seat of fractime with one hand, and rotating it gently with the other. The displacement must be ascer- tained by measuring the limb carefully in the way that has been directed, and by comparing the injiu’ed with the sound side. Diagnosis. The diagnosis of an ordinary fractm-e is seldom attended by any material difficulty. The co-existence of displacement, of abnormal mobility, and of grating, wiU usually enable the Siu-geon at once and readily 0 pronounce with certainty its existence, when it is simple. When it is com- pmncl,th.QYQ IS frequently the additional evidence afforded by the protrusion of snL?/ 5 and if it be comminuted as well, the loose splinters will bo readily felt.