321 ANEURISMAL VARIX IX THE NECK. CHAPTER XVI. WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS.* VESSELS OE THE HEAL AND NECK. Carotid Artery.—Wounds of the Carotid Artery, and of its primary and secondary divisions, are more frequent in civil practice than similar injiu’ies of any other set of arteries in the body, in consequence of the neck being fi-equently the seat of suicidal attempts. The hmmorrhage from wounds of the main trunk is so copious as often to be immediately fatal. In the event of a Siu’geon being at hand, both ends of the bleeding vessel must be at once hgatmed. Should the haemon-hage, whether primary or secondary, proceed from a deep branch, as the internal maxillary, deep temporal, or internal carotid, so situated as not to admit of the vessel being exposed and hgatured at the seat of wound, the oi-dinary rule of practice of tyhig a wounded artery at the seat of injury must be departed from, and the common carotid tied in the neck. In consequence of the speedy fatahty of the wounds of the carotid artery and its branches. Traumatic Aneurisms are rarely met with in this situation ; they do, however, occasionally occur, and the records of surgery contain at »least six instances of the kind, in each of which the common carotid was tied, and the patient ultimately recovered. Aneurismal Varix in the Neck, dependent on puncture of the Internal Jugular Vein and Carotid Artery, usually the result of sword-thi'usts, is apparently of more frequent occmi’ence than traumatic aneurism in this region ; probably owing to the close proximity of the vein rendering it difficult for the artery to be wounded on the outer or anterior sides, without ffi’st perforating- that vessel. The symptoms offer the general characteristics of anemismal varix, liut have several points that are worthy of special remai'k. The womid of the vessels has been in every instance followed by the effusion of a large quantity of blood into the loose areolar tissue of the neck ; the extravasation acquirmg even the size of a child’s head, and threatening immediate suffocation. As this exfravasation subsided, the ordinary characters of anemismal vaiix began to manifest themselves. The period at which these symptoms first made their appearance varied somewhat in the different cases, but they always occm’red within four or five days of the receipt of the injury. In none of the cases did the disease appear to shorten life, or to occasion any dangerous or inconvenient effects, with the exception of some difficulty in lying on the affected side, and occasional giddiness or noise in the head on stooping. No operation is admissible in these affections. Vol. the various arteries viii he found iu VOL. I. Y