ERYSIPELAS. 700 deeper than into the gelatinous-lookine; subcutaneous areolar tissue, unless it happen that the disease have extended beneath the fascia, when they may also be carried through it. South recommends that the incisions should be so 1 arranged in fom’s, as to enclose a diamond-shaped space, and states I I that in this Avay the greatest relief is giA-en to the tension of the I p.art. After the incisions have been made, the part should be avcU poulticed and fomented, so as to facilitate the escape of serum. As it is not the object of the Surgeon to draAV Ijlood in these cases, any undue amount of htemoiThage should be aiTested by plugging the Avoimd. Much blood may be saved by elevating the limb and applying a toimniquet before using the knife, but it is better not to employ Esmarch’s bandage, for fear of driAung the un- healthy inflammatory products into the circulation. In those cases in AA'hich • the disease is not already complicated AAdth an open Abound and decomposing discharges, great adAvantage Avill be derived from the employment of Lister’s antiseptic di’essing, thus preventing the decomposition of the effused inflam- matory fluids Avhich fill up the areolar tissue exposed by the incisions. Before making the incisions, the hmb should be AveU fomented for a quarter of an hour Avith cloths Avetted Avith a hot solution of carbolic acid (1 to 40). The toiu’- niquet is then applied, and the incisions made under a spray of carbolic acid. To arrest excessive bleeding, the Avoiuids must be plugged Avith carbolic acid gauze. The treatment is then conducted according to the rules laid doAvn Avheii describing the antiseptic method. If the necessaries for Lister’s dressing be not at hand, the part may be AATapped in hot oakum poultices, or dressed AAuth some other disinfectant application. After suppimation and sloughing have taken place, as indicated by a boggy feel of the parts, free incision should be made in order to let out pus and sloughs. After this, the skin aauII often be found to be greatly undermined, Iffue, and thin, AAuth matter bagging in the more dependent parts ; if so, egress must be made for it by free counter- openings, and di’ainage-tubes inserted as required. During the after-treatment, frequent dressing is necessary to prevent an accumulation of pus, and the sloughs must be removed as they form. Care should be taken not to destroy any of the A^ascidar connections of .the sldn Avith subjacent parts; but, in order to get proper cicatrisation, it AAill often be found necessary to lay open sinuses, or to divide bridges of unhealthy and blue integument stretching across chasms left by the remoA'al of the gangrenous areolar tissue. If the loss , of substance be great, the cicatrix that forms may be Aveak, imperfect, or so contracted as to occasion gTeat defoimity of the limb. In othc]- cases, again, the diseased state of the bones and joints may be such as to caU for ultimate amputation, either in consequence of the local deformity and announce, or in order to free the constitution from a source of hectic and of imtation. In aU circumstances, the patient’s health AviU usually continue in a feeble and shattered state for a considerable time after recovery fr’om this form of erysipelas, requiring change of air and great attention to habits of life, a nourishing diet, &c. . , In the Treatment of Cellular Erysipelas it is usually necessaij to administer stimulants early ; ammonia, Avine, or brandy may be required from the very first. The Siugeon must judge of this by the constitutional condifron of the patient, and more particularly by the state of his pulse and tongue. The