FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. 407 Fig. 158.—Aijparatus for Frac- tured Clavicle. extend so ftu- towards the elbow as it ought to. It is represented in this way, in order not to conceal the other parts of the apparatus (Fig. 158). The elbow must be kept to the side by a few tiu-ns of a roller, or by means of a padded belt. In children, in whom these fractures often occur, there is frequently a difficulty in keeping the bandages properly applied ; in these circumstances the starched apparatus will be found very useful, ■care being taken to re-apply it as often as it becomes loose, lest deformity result. Fractured clavicles occurring in females, to whom any irregularity of union in this situation would be very annoying, are best treated by keeping the patient lying flat on her back in bed for the first two or three weeks. By this plan, which is as old as the days of Hippo- crates, I have seen better results produced than by any other. "When both clavicles are broken, the patient should be kept in bed, and the shoulder fixed and drawn backwards by means of a figure-of-8 bandage. In the case already alluded to (p. 404), this could not be borne, owing to the simultaneous fractm’e of the ribs; but the patient nevertheless made a good recovery with little deformity. In Comminuted Fracture of the Clavicle, it must always be remembered that the subclavian vein may be compressed or contused. It is, therefore, of importance to avoid all means that may interfere with the return of venous blood from the arm. Hence the bandaging of the fingers, hand, and fore-arm should be omitted, and the axillary pad laid aside. The limb should be di-awn back, supported in a shng, and the patient kept recumbent until miion has been attained. i In comminuted simple fr-acture of the clavicle with vertical depression of the central portion, Aunandale has removed the displaced piece of bone. Feactuees of the Scapula.—l. Fracture of the Sody of the Scapula is not very commonly met with ; and when it occurs, being always the result of considerable direct violence, it is usually associated with serious injury to the subjacent ribs and trunk. The thick layer of muscles OA'erlying this bone not only protects it, but limits displacement, and renders the detec- tion of its fracture difficult. The fracture usually takes place across the bone, immediately below the spine ; but occasionally it may be split longitudinally or starred. Ihe consists in placing the arm in a sling, the application of a ody-bandage, and sujjport of the part with a pad. But all Surgeons who have seen this accident are agreed as to the extreme difficulty of obtaining union Without considerable deformity ; which, however, is of less moment here than m most other situations. Fractures lu the Vicinity of the Shoulder-Joint are of common occurence, and may happen either in the bony points of the scapula that hang this articulation, or else in the upper end of the humerus. Hot