163 GRANULATIOK. fliittened, its sensibility diminishes, and the edges are often elevated, and in- durated. In this stationary condition an nicer may remain for many months ; and it is that in Avhich we commonly find chronic sores. 3. The last stage, that of Repair, is characterised by the formation of granu- lations, Avhich may bo looked ni^on as the tm-ning iDoint in ulceration. Until gi-anulations are formed, ulceration is a wasting process, or at most stationary • so soon as they are formed, repair commences. Instead of a tendency to extension and erosion, and to concavity, we now find a disposition to con- traction and deposition, and to convexity of the surface, which assumes a bright red hue, of a veimilion or scarlet tinge, and appears to be studded vith minute papilhn : the edges become rounded and smoothed dovm tow'ards the surfiice, losing their shai-p cut appearance ; and the discharge assumes the characters of healthy pus. Repair op Ulcers.—We now proceed to study the changes that occur in an ulcer dining the stage of repair—the processes of Granulation and of Okatrisaiion. Granulation. So soon as inflammation and extension of ulceration are checked, the siuface of the ulcer, as has already been stated, becomes covered by a layer of plastic matter. This plastic layer, separating the ulcer from smaoimding and adjacent tissues, forms a basis from which the gTanulations, the organs of repair, spring up. Before this plastic basis can be deposited, it IS necessaiy that the inflammation be reduced within those hmits that are compatible with plastic effiision. So long as inflammatory action exceeds his limit around the edge or at the base of the idcer, no lymph is efiiised. lit as soon as this undue action is checked, lymph, which becomes vascu- toised by vessels shooting into it from beloiv, is thrown out, and assumes a granulai form from the formation of papiBaj, or gi-amilations, which are com- posed of exudative matter that has become vascularised. In the great majonty of oases, giannlations are fonned only on surfaces exposed to the air fo.l.r ”f “V ''rfftout exposure to the air or the taX e tbfoT’ T’ ‘0 “ses of beeome vo. f granulations are m reahty composed of lymph that has wwX eX fact obseiwed by Hmiter, and ln„d, „!7- Ti'-W. both in wounds and in compound ft-actures, namely, that a portion of bii ish-white semitmnsparent Ijmiph eflhsed on the simfiie of the L or deniS bme s withoot^TTi^^'i!'^'^!shows that gi-aniilations are composed of cells heaped ut> substance. Whml; Jnhlv ”‘™«bate niddv Tf la • f b- ^ colourless ; when in clusters, they become edges become converted into epithelid Ete LI procjls^ M 2