637 liUPTUliES OF THE HEART. spnpfcoms partially and intermitting-ly subside ; and the ordinary auscnltatory signs of pericarditis come on—friction and creaking sounds, with diminished and distant impulse, and perhaps widely spread dulness in percussion. To these may possibly be added evidences of endocardial inflammation. Of these consecutive inflammatory complications and of their consequences the patient Avill most probably ultimately die, though perhaps at a remote period and after prolonged suffering. Ruptures of the Heart from External Violence, without penetrating wounds of the chest, arc not of frequent occuiTcnce. Gamgee has, however, collected 27 published cases of this accident. On analysing these he finds that, in at least one half of the cases, the pericardium was intact; 12 of the ruptures were on the right, 10 on the left side. The right ventricle was ruptured in 8, and the left in 3 cases ; whereas the left auricle was torn in 7, and the right only in 4 instances. Death is usually nearly instantaneous, though there are instances on record in w'hich the patient has made some exertion after the ruj)- tm-e had taken place, and has even lived for several hoiu’s. In a case of raptime of the right auricle recorded by Rust, the patient survived foiu’teen hours. In most of the recorded cases, the injury occasioning the ruptiue was directly applied to the region of the heart. But instances are not wanting in which this organ has been found ruptured through one or both ventricles or in one of the am-icles, without any evidence of direct injury in the cardiac region—the patient having fallen upon his head or shoulders, or having been merely thrown forcibly to the gTound with serious injury to the lower extremities. In some of these cases, there is reason to beheve that the ruptiue w^as produced by the spasmodic violence of the contractions of the heart, under the influence of great mental emotion or fear. The only case that has occiured in my practice was that of a man brought into the Hospital dead, having fallen from the top of a cart. The right shoulder was bruised, and the clavicle broken—showing- clearly that he had pitched on that side ; there w^as no other bruise about the body, or evidence that the wfieels had passed over him. On examination, the liver was found extensively torn, in fact smashed, and the pericardium was distended with blood—there being a triangular ragged apertiue at the anterior part of the auricular appendage of the left auricle, through which it had escaped. Wounds of the Aorta and Vena Cava ai-e usually as immediately fatal as those of the heart itself. In this respect, they resemble wmimds of the auricles rather than those of the ventricles. Heil has, how'ever, recorded a case in w'hich the patient recovered and lived for a tw'elvemonth, after receiving a stab that penetrated the ascending aorta.