529 TREATMENT OF ENCEPHALITIS. timious cerebral disturbance, or have been followed by giddiness, headache, or confusion of thought, the safer plan will be to adopt immediate steps for the prevention of further mischief. Venesection used formerly to be extensively practised as a precautionary measine, in order to prevent undue reaction and inflammatory mischief following on head-injuries. Perhaps our inedecessors eiTcd in the too frequent and liberal use of the lancet in these cases—I beheve that Sm-geous of the present day are too sparing in its use. In the yomig and robust the best possible effects follow venesection in head-mjuries, to the extent of from 12 to 16 ounces. In children, leeches advantageously take the place of the lancet. The patient should be freely purged, kept on a low diet, and, above all, should remain quiet in bed for some days. Should impaiiTuent of the mental faculties or senses be left, the more pru- dent plan -will be to have recourse to a mild antiphlogistic treatment, con- sisting of leeching, cupi^ing, blistering, the introduction of a seton in the nape of the neck, pinging, and more especially a mild mercurial course, with strict avoidance of all mental and bodily stimulation. The patient must be carefully watched, and kept under proper supervision for some length of time, as serious sjTnptoms ai’e apt suddenly to declare themselves. IVhen Acute Inflammation, of the Brain or its Membranes has come on, at whatever period after the injury, active treatment should be at once adopted. The head must be shaved, and an ice-bladder kept constantly apphed. Bleeding from the arm, repeated as often as the pulse rises, as well as by cupping, or leeches, should be had recourse to ; the bowels should be freely opened, and rigid abstinence must be enjoined, the patient at the same time being confined to a quiet and darkened room, and removed from all causes of excitement of the special senses. Calomel should then be ad- ministered, so as speedily to affect the mouth. As the disease assumes a chi-onic form, the same general plan of treatment, modified according to the intensity of the inflammatory affection, must be persevered in, the patient being’ kept for a length of time after the subsidence of all the symptoms in a state of complete quietude. The Subacute Encephalitis which occasionally follows injinies of the head, eien at a remote period from their infliction, is most dangerous and unmanageable, being very apt to terminate in loss or impairment of the senses, m diminution of intellectual power, or in local paralysis. Much of the diffi- culty in its treatment appears to arise from the fact that the inflammation is often of a low asthenic type, consequently not admitting active depletory measures. •' In this disorder the best results are obtained by the proper administration ot mercury and the employment of counter-in-itants. The best mode of ad ministering the mercury is-to give half a grain or a grain of calomel every four or SIX houi-s until the gums are affected, and to keep up the effect by dimmishuig- but not leaying off the drug. The repeated application of blistci’s over the shaven scalp is perhaps the most useful form of counter-irritation • to w ich, in more chronic cases, a seton in the neck may be added. So lon^ ns sTcLi^keptTp.'’*' cxnMn™- ‘tia plan of treatment must’ be The treatment of Cerebral Irritation will require to be varied i)i different M M