GANGREXE FROJil THROMBOSIS AXE EMBOLISM. 66i form of gangi-cue may im-aclc the whole of the loAver limb, but most commonly is limited to'’the foot, stopping either just above the ankle, or if not there, im- mediately below the knee, as Guthrie has observed ; the, arrest taking place in one or other of these two spots, on aceouut of the greater freedom of the col- lateral circulation here than in other parts of the limb. If any of the large venoils trunks become obstructed or otherwise implicated, so that the return of blood through them is interfered with at the same time that the supply by the arteries is aiTested, the limb generally assumes a greenish-blue colour, and rapidly runs into putrefaction. In some of these cases it happens that sloughs of the integument and subcutaneous areolar tissue form, although the limb generally preserves its 'natality. The treatment of these forms of gangvene, which are strictly local, is described in the chapter on the Arrest of Arterial HtemoiThage. &. Gangi-ene may oecur from the arrest of the circulation through an artery as the result of Disease or Alteration in the Coats of the Vessel, or from some Morbid State of the Blood. This is the variety that is commonly called Sponfaneous. It may be the result of thrombosis or embolism in a previously healthy ai’tery, or of the plugging up of an artery that has imdergone athero- matous change, or calcification, or other senile degeneration. Spontaneous gaugreiie from the formation of Thrombosis, or clot in an artery, usually occins in young or middle-aged persons. Whether the throm- bosis be the result of, or the antecedent to, inflammation within the vessel, is a cjuestion which need not be discussed here. In either case, when gaugrene fr-om this cause appears, Ave meet with the usual signs of arteritis, such as tenderness along the coinse of the vessel, cessation of pulsation in its terminal branches, and intense superficial pain in the limb, followed by the rapid super- A-ention of dark dry gangrene in the Avhole of the extremity up to the point at AA^hich the vessel is inflamed. In some cases the gangrene partakes of the characters of the humid form, oAving to the implication of the contiguous vems. It is, I believe, most frequently met Avith in the upper extremities j at least, most of the instances of it that I hav'e seen have been situated there. I haA'e obserA'ed it most commonly in Avomen, occurring sometimes at an early period of life, eA'en at the eighteenth year. Its causes are A'ery obscine ; in some cases the disease appears to bo of rheumatic origin, in others it is connected AAith a cachectic and broken state of constitution. It frequently proves fatal by the suj)crAention of ty[Ahoid symptoms, before any attempt can be made by nature to separate the mortified part. After death, the affected vessel is found fii'inly plugged at the seat of obstruction by a dense coagulum, Avhich completely impedes the circulation through it. (gangrene may also be produced by Embolism, the terminal branches of the arteries and the capillary vessels becoming plugged by a mass of finely gTanular fibrinous matter, Avhich is can-ied aAAny by the blood-cinrent from the heart, or IS Avashed doAvir and into the loAver part of the A-essel from the inflamed patch on the inner smfaee of the artery at a higher point. In peculiar conditions of >e flood, at present of an uncertain character, this plugging is more specially fip 0 occur. Ill some cases the embolou appears to consist of a pluo- of which has been detached from a distant part ol the circulatory ‘ 1 fr ‘ ., from the Ulterior of the left ventricle for instance, and, being carried