453 I FlixWTUBES NEAR ANKLE-JOINT. ; l)i-oken bones. It is in cases of fractiu-e of the lower third of the fibula, with 1 displacement outwards, or of both bones low down with tendency to displacc- I meiit backwards, that this splint will be found most useful. It may be applied to either side of the leg, as best seems to suit the case in question. Whatever \ apparatus is used, care must be taken to keep the sole of the foot nearly at a ' right angle with the leg. If the toes be allowed to point, it will be found that there is in some cases a tendency for the astragalus to roll forwai’ds, as it ■were, ' fi-om under the malleolar arch. In other instances, again, one of the sharp 1 angular fragments connected with the bone may be pressed forwards, and I uniting in this position, give rise to permanent deformity. But whatever care I be employed, or apparatus applied, it will be found impossible in some cases [ to replace one of the thin angular fr’agments, if it become twisted on its axis, \ and project shaiply under the skin. If the foot be much twisted outwards, as often happens in Pott’s fr’acture, : Dupuytren’s splint shoidd be applied to the inner side of the limb, so as to ( counteract the displacement (Fig. 201*). In applying the apparatus, three i points reqiure attention. 1. The pad should be folded double at the lower [■ end, and not descend below the ankle, so as to form a fulcrum, across which f the foot may be dravm to the inner side. 2. The bandage should not be t caiTied above the knee, but terminate just below the flexure of the joint. [ 3. The knee should be bent, so as to flex the leg on the thigh, and thus to I relax the strong muscles of the calf, which, by drawing up the heel, and Fig. 201*.—Application of nupuj'tren’s SiiUnt in Pott’s Fractiu'e causing the toes to point doivnwards, offer a serious obstacle to the maintenance of the foot in a good position. Much stifihess always left after union has taken place, the ankle remaining rigid, weak, and useless for a long time. In Pott’s fractme, where the malleolar arch is spht through, a peculiar de- formity is apt to residt, consisting of widening of the lower end of the leg by separation of the malleoli. The astragalus is driven upwards, the shaft ivith the inner malleolus projects somewhat to the inner side, whilst the outer half of the malleolar arch is earned outwards with the lower end of the fibula. The transverse line between the maUeoli is increased by half an inch. Compound Fracture into the Ankle-joint is necessarily a serious and dangerous accident. In this injury, the edge of the fractmed bone cuts through the integument by apparently a clean and simple Avound, but the subjacent areolar tissue is widely torn, and extensive inflammation and suppmation are apt to set in. The deep-seated mischief is far more extensive than that Avhich the Surgeon Avould bo led to expect from the small and clean-cut wound. Nevertheless, the injury, eA'en though severe, may often be recovered from Avitli a good and useful limb, Avhen occurring to young subjects of sound constitution.