647 TJIEATMEXT OF WOUNDED INTESTINE. various reasons, (lutlirie, Tra^'ers, and other Surgeons of experience, advocate the practice of stitching np the wonnd in a protruding intestine in suitalde cases, with which opinion I entirely agree. It is, ho^vever, evident that no positi\-e and inivaryiug rule can be laid down that is applicable to all cases. .Much must depend on the nature, cause, and extent of the wound in the gnt. If it be very lai-ge and transverse, the result of gun-shot violence or other con- tusing force, no suture can be of any service ; for, not only might it be difficult to bring the edges together, but they wmdd probably not adhere to one another, nor to the abdominal wall. If, however, the wound be punctured or incised mid of moderate extent, the case is different. Much will also depend upon the way in Avhich the sutines are applied. They should bo introduced by means ■of a fine round needle, armed with sewing silk, in such a way that the perito- neal sinfaces on each side of the womid are brought into contact: adhesion takes place solely between these, the wound in the other structines of the gut filling np by plastic deposit. It has been recommended that the needle should penetrate the peritoneal and nreolar coats oidy, no muscular tissue being iaken np in it, lest retraction of the included fibres, by di’agging uj)on the stitches, might re-open the wound. This ad^'ice, however, it is extremely difficult to follow. The safer plan is doubtless to cany the sutine thi-ough the whole thickness of the gut, bringing the pjg_ ,61 - stitches out at about one-sixth of an inch from the edge of the cut, in such a way that the serous surfaces are drawn into iipposition. The kind of sutine that should be used is here represented (Fig. ^61). When the lips of the wound have been nearly brought into apposition in this way, it has been proposed to leave the end of the thread hanging out of •the aperture of the abdominal wall, and to withdraw it when it becomes loose ; but I think it better not to leave it, as it might induce great irritation, acting like a seton in the peritoneal cavity. The ends, therefore, should be cut short close to the knot, when the suture will eventually become covered with lymph, mid find its way into the inside of the gut by ulcerating through the muscular mid mucous coats. Should the aperture in it admit of being thus closed, the protruded jiortion ■of the intestine must be reduced, having previously been properly cleansed with a little lukewarm water. Should, however, the protruded gut be too ■extensively torn, and especially if it be lacerated by gun-shot injury, it would be useless to stitch it np, and it must be gently and^ carefully reduced. The reduction must be effected in the way that has been already described, the ■Sm-geon being especially careful not to push the wounded coil of intestine fin- into the abdoinen, but to leave it close to the external orifice, so that, in the ■cient of extravasation occiuring, or the stitches giving way, a ready outlet may be afforded. Should the womid in the abdominal wall be extensive, it must be closed by sutines and plasters, supported by a bandage, tlie interior angle being left open to allow the escape of extravasation. The wound in the -Apiilication of Suture to Wounded Bowel.