199 THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD. The Antiseptic Treatment of Wounds.—Allusion has already been made at p. 177 to the theory founded on Pasteur’s observations and experiments which attributes suppin-ation, in the majority of cases, to the putrefactive fermenta- tion set np in an animal fluid by the development in it of organisms caiTied into it as germs floating thi-ough the atmosphere, and not spontaneously developed in it by any change taking place in the tissues or fluids of the part independently of such impregnation. According to the “ Geim-Theory,” as applied to Avounds, it necessarily follows that, if the impreg-nating germs can be rigidly excluded from a woimd, all those suppin-ative actions that are dependent upon the implantation of new organisms on a raw smiace Avill be prevented. This may evidently be accomplished in tAVO ways ; either by completely excluding all air fr’om a AA'omid, and thus pre\’enting the intrusion of the gems earned by it; or else by destroying the gems floating in the air around the Avoimd by an antiseptic vapom, as of carbolic acid, and thus admitting to the siuface of the Avoimd absolutely pme air that has been entirely fr-eed fr’om all septic matters. It is important to bear these points in mind, and to recollect that in accordance Avith this theory the excliAsion of atmospheinc air from a Avound is by no means necessary • that it does not act injimously of itself, but simply as a A'ehicle of septic gems ; and that, if these be destroyed by chemical action or removed by filtration, and the air thus rendered siu’gicaUy pine, so far as organic or septic inter- mixtine is concerned, it may be fr’eely admitted. Taking this germ-theory as his starting-point. Lister has founded on it a plan of treatment in Avounds, as novel as it is scientifle and ingenious, which is knoAATi as the “ Antiseptic Method.” The j)rinciple on Avhich this treatment is founded consists in protecting the AA'ound in such a manner dmang the process of its healing, that no organic germs floating in the air are admitted to it. This principle is carried out in tAvo Avays—by covering the Avound Avith antiseptic dressings, and by smTomiding it Avith an antiseptic atmosphere—the activ’e agent for both jAiuposes being carbolic acid. It is claimed for this method that, when it has been thoroughly carried out. imion will take place even in extensive contused and lacerated womids, AAithout the fomation of a single drop of pus, and Avithout the occmrence of any general febrile reaction. The principle on AA'hich this method of treatment is founded, is, as is Avell knoAAUi, disputed by Pouchet, Charlton Bastian, and other scientifle men, AA'ho advocate the doctrine of spontaneous generation. It Avould be altogether foreign to the scope of this Avork to enter into this discussion ; and Avhether the geim-theoiy be coirect or not, matters perhaps little to the practical Surgeon, for there can be no doubt that the decomposition of fluids in Avounds, and the consequent suppuration, are greatly favoined by the admission of impure air ; and that any treatment Avhich has for its basis the exclusion of impm’e air and the prevention or aiTCst of decomposition of the animal fluids by an antiseptic body, such as carbolic acid, must be theoretically advantageous, and based on sound principles of practice. If the admission of air into a Avound Avere the sole cause of its suppiu-ation, A\diether that result be the consequences of the chemical constitution of the air, or of the introduction into t 0 wound through its mediiun vf organic particles that produce a fermentative dc ion in the fluid and tissues in Avhich they are deposited, there can be no