273 NATURAL ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. It was not until 1805, that Dr. Jones, by a series of admirably conducted investigations, finally detennined the mode in which the arrest of hffimorrhage takes place. Since his time but little has been added to our knowledge of the subject, so complete and exhaustive was his examination of it. The Natural Arrest of Arterial Hemorrhage is effected by means that in the first instance ai’e Irngorarg, but afterwards Temporary Means.—The means which arrest temporarily the flow of blood from an artery are tlu’eefold. If the vessel be small, as the facial or radial, these means are sufiicient in many cases to stay the haemorrhage without the interference of the Surgeon ; and, whatever be the size of the vessel, his opera- tions are materially assisted by the efforts which nature makes, though they may be sometimes unsuccessful, to prevent a fatal escape of blood. They consist in: 1. The Coagulation of and an Alteration in the Constitution of the Blood ; 2. A Diminution of the Force of the Heart’s Action, and consequently of the pressiu-e on the inner coat of the vessel; 3. Certain Changes effected in and around the Artery. 1. The Coagulation of the Blood in and around the wounded artery is the first and most important means adopted by nature for the arrest of hjemoiThage. Were it not for the projDerty of coagulation possessed by the blood, that fluid would continue to drain away from any cut artery, however small, imtil hfe became extinct. But the coagulation of the blood is sufficient of itself, in most cases, and in all cases of vessels below a certain size, to close the opening in the artery, and so to arrest the fm-ther escape. The Alteration that takes place in the Blood consists in an increase of its coagulability as it flows. The blood that escapes fr’om a wounded artery has fi’om the first a tendency to glaze and coagidate about the cut vessel, so as to offer a mechanical obstacle to the fru-ther escape of the fluid. This of itself is sufficient in the smaller vessels to arrest the hccmorrhage ; the more so, as has been pointed out by Hewsou, in consequence of the last florving blood beiii”‘ more coagulable than the first. ° 2. The Diminution in the Force of the Heart’s Action, orving to the patient becoming faint or collapsed, exercises a very material influence in arresting the flow of blood fr-om an artery. The forcible mamier in which the jet of blood is propeUed at each systole of the ventricle, is the principal obstacle to the coagulation of the blood around and within the cut vessel; for not only does the moveinent of the blood prevent coagulation, but, so long as the jet IS more powerful than the cohesion of the clot, it wiU certainly wash thevcoagulum away. As the blood flows, and the heart’s impulse gradually lessens m force, the jet falls lower and lower; rrntil at last, when faintness comes on, rt is almost entirely arrested, and time is afforded for the formation HUcI hnn nn'nnsif'. ri"F q /^rvnnmlmv^ -i-r. ai,- « it -i T