JiEQUISTTES FOR SUCCESS. 3 department of Surgery has, so far as our present means and onr present know- ledge are coneerned, readied, or nearly so, its final development, the case is wiefely different with the other great branch of Surgery—the scientific. For here, truly, so far from hai'ing approached the final limits of our subject, we arc but as yet halting on the threshold. And whether ive regard the science of Surgery in its relation to the essential nature, the character, the recognition, and the pathology of surgical diseases and injuries, or ivhether we consider it in reference to all those circumstances ivhich, independently of the mechanical skill of the operator, influence for good or for ill the results of his procedures, we have a field before ns as vast as it has hitherto been little cultivated. And here I do not sjieak of the mere local results ; so far as they are con- cerned, there is but little to bo desired. The results of most plastic, conserva- tive, and ophthalmic operations are as satisfactory as the most sanguine could hope for or the most critical expect. So also noth respect to that multitude of minor operations that are practised for the relief of various distressing maladies, and which are followed by the happiest consequences. But when we come to consider the issues of those gTeater and graver operations by which the life of a patient is directly imperilled, Ave are constrained to admit that success in results has lagged far behind and borne no relation to the perfection in the execu- tion of the operation, and that in this respect the highly polished Art of modern Surgery far outshines its Science. But success in the residts is, after aU, the thing to aim at, and no amoiuit of manual dexterity can compensate for its want. Dexterity is oidy one element of success, and, however important it is to be dexterous operators, it is better still to be successful ones. But it must not be supposed, that manual dexterity is to be ruidervalued—far from it. Manual dexterity is necessarily of the first adr'antage in the performance of any operation, and the Surgeon should diligently endear’diu’ to acquire the Ai-t of using his instruments Avith neatness, rapidity, and certainty. In many cases of minor moment, no other requisite is needed by the Singeon than this. But it Avould, indeed, be a fatal error to suppose that, in the majority of cases requiring surgical interference, this is the only or indeed the chief require- ment on the part of the operator. Manual dexterity must not be mistaken for surgical skill; and, desirable as it doubtless may be to be able to remoA'c a limlA, or to cut out a stone, Avith rapidity,—important, in a Avord, as it is to become a dexterous operator—it is of far greater importance to become a successful Surgeon. The object of CA’cry operation is the remoA’al of some condition that either threatens life, or interferes AA'ith the comfort and ntility of existence ; and the more safely as Avell as certainly a Singeon can accoui- plish this object, the better Avill he do his duty to his patients, and the more successful Avill he be in his practice. Success^then, in the result of an opera- tion, Avhether that result be the preserAvatioii of life or the remo\-al of a soince of discomfort, is the thing to aim at. To this, dexterity and rapidity in opera- ting are in a high degree conducive ; but there are various other considerations equally or still more necessary, the solution of Avhich can only be afforded by an intimate general acquaintance Avith the Science of Surgery and of Medicine. The Diagnosis of the nature of the local disease, and of the extent of its con- nections, has to be made ; lurking A'isceral affections must be detected and if possible, removed. The Constitution of the patient must be prepared ; he