INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 6i2 remaining 21 eases, tabulated below, tracheotomy was performed ; of these IS lived, and only three died, showing a remarkable success attendant on this operation. PERIOD OF RETENTION, NUMBER oJ. CASES, CURED. DIED. Less than 24 hours .s 2 1 Between 24 and 48 hours 2 2 0 Between 48 hoiu’s and 1 week .... 9 8 1 Between 1 week and 1 month . . . . 5 4 1 Between 1 and .3 months ♦ 2 2 0 Total 21 IS 3 Gross has also given extensive statistics of the removal of foreign bodies, and has found that out of 68 recorded cases in which iracheotomy has been per- formed, the operation was successful in 60, and in eight the patient died. In some cases laryngotomy has been performed instead of tracheotomy ; and the foreign body has been equally well expelled. Gross gives thirteen instances of this, Successful in their results, and four in which death followed the operation. Laryngo-tracheotomy was done in thirteen cases; of these there were ten recoveries and three deaths. Gross, statistics of 160 cases are as follows : RE- COVERED. DIED. total. Spontaneous Expulsion ..... 49 8 0 67 6 Inversion of Body alone . • • • • 60 13 8 4 68 Tracheotomy 17 Laryngotomy Laryngo-tracheotomy 10 1 3 13 Emetics, sternutatories, and succussion of the body, are aU either useless oi dangerous. Inversion of the body has succeeded in several instances, and mio-ht, I think, be tried before operation is had recourse to, more pmticidai y if The foreig-n body be a coin, and be movable in the air-passage.^ Padley caused the ejection of a sixpenny-piece in this Avay from the trachea of a ^ and recommends the supine as a safer and better position than the pione. is imdoubtedly danger, in inversion, of the supeiwention of statistics do not prove that any fatal f Should however, the attempt at expulsion by inversion of the body bn „ !Lck ’of laryngeal spasm, the attempt should be abandoned as not only n*les wt the highest decree dangerous, Wlicn the foreign body is lodged in the ^p^ So a^passagebtean sometimes be examination, and may be removed by forceps or „f ingenuity of the Snrgeon may suggest. Tims, in “ ™»i^ m.io^_ luverpool, a penny ivas successfully removed by foie _i ; ^ qqI pactecl six yeL in the larynx of a boy ; and, in another case, in the Lneipoo