INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 522 from a foroigu body lodged there. In -whateYer way occasioned, however, the symptoms, although presenting some difiercnces, are tolerably constant, The patient lies in a state of coma, stupor or lethargy, being paralysed more or less completely, heavy and drowsy, or insensible, not answering when spoken to, ox- only Avhen addressed in a loud voice, and perhaps shaken at the same time. The breathing is carried on slowly and deeply, with a stertorous or snoring noise, and ixsually a peculiar blowing of the lips. The stertor appears to be owing to paralysis of the velum pendulum palati, which, hanging down as an inanimate curtain, is throAvn into vibrations dm-iixg expiration by the passage of the air across it; the distension of the cheeks and blowing of the lips are due to the muscidar paralysis of these pai’ts. One or both pupils are dilated ; the pulse is full, often slow, the feces pass involuntarily from paralysis of the sphincter ani, and the urine is not uncommonly retained from paralysis of the bladder; the skin may be cool, but in many cases, on the contrary, is rather hot and pei-haps perspiring ; the temperatm-e may rise to 100° F. Not unfreqixently this condition of stupor alternates with paroxysms ot de- lirium, or of local convulsive action. This state of coma may become compli- cated by symptoms of inflammation ; and, unless the cause that produces the compi’ession be i-emoved, it usually tei-minates speedily in death, the patient gradually sinkuxg into more complete unconsciousness, and dying in an . apoplectic condition. In other, but much rarer cases, the coma may continue ahnost an indeflnite time, for many weeks or even months, ixntil the compress- ing cause is removed, when the patient may recover consciousness, and the symptoms suddenly disappear. ^ i • The Diagnosis between concussion and compression has been suificiently in- dicated in the preceding description not to require special mention here. But it must be remembered that, in many cases, one state merges into the other, so that the symptoms are not so distinctly marked as has been indicated ; and they are more especially obsciu-ed when associated with inflammation. 3. Cerebral Iixritation.—The third form of primary cerebral distinbauce which is met wdth in injinies of the head, differs very remarkably from both the preceding. The patient presents symptoms neither of concussion nor of compression, nor is there any combination of the phenomena characteris- ing these two states ; but the symptoms are altogether pecuhar. For con- venience of description, they may be divided into two groups, the lotUy and the mental. . _ „ j.- The Bodily Symptoms are as follows. The attitude of the patient is peculiar and most characteristic he lies on the side, and is cinled up in a Lte of general fiexion. The body is bent forwards, the knees ““ dmm up on the abdomen, the legs bent, the arms flexed, and ^ ^ He does not lie motionless, but is restless, and often, nhen nutated, tossffi^ Mmstrabont. But, however restless he may be, he stre^ « out nor assumes the supine position, but invariably let cits to the attitad Jflerion The eyelids are firmly closed, and he resists violently meiy Irt m^e to open themi if this be eflected, to be contracted. The sinface is pale anc coo , or ex en • heat of head. The pulse is small, feeble, and sphincters are not usually affected, and the patient mil l-