fractures of the skull. 537 CoNTUSiOJr OF THE CuANiAE Bo^^ES witliout fracture, occasioned either by ordinary direct violence or by tlie oblique impact of bullets, is a very serious injury, more particularly when complicated vutli wound of the scalp. In it there are three sources of danger, any one of which may be followed by a fatal result; viz.: 1. Necrosis of the part of bone struck, leading to exfoliation of the outer table, or to separation of the whole thickness of the cranium and ex- liosure of the dura mater ; 2. Suppuration under the skull, between it and the dura mater ; and, 3. Pyiemia i\'ith secondary visceral abseesses, in consequence of the suppuration of the diploe around the necrosed point of bone, and the entrance of pus into the cranial ^'eins,—a condition to which reference has already been made. The following statement, taken from the records of the War Department of the United States army, gives a good summary of the results of gun-shot con- tusions of the skull Muthout fracture. Of 328 cases, there died 5.5 ; disabled, 173 ; recovered, 100. The deaths arose fr’om hEemorrhage, 2 ; tetEinus, 4 ; pyasmia, 4 ; dysentery and fever, 8 ; compression fr'om blood or pus, 17 ; various intracranial injuries, 22. In 221 cases the seat of injiuy is mentioned with the percentage of mortality as follows:— Cases. Deaths iier cent. Frontal bone 54 15 Temporal „ 33 15 Parietal „ 1)5 13 Occipital „ 33 9 iMore than one bone 0 This shows these injm-ies to be most dangerous in the temporal and frontal regions, and least so in the occipital. Of the 173 disabled, the following complications are specified as the causes of the disability :— 10 Persistent pain in the head. Vertigo, giddiness, and dizziness were some of the commonest complaints among pensioners. 23 Paralysis of limbs more or less marked. 10 Impairment of vision ; wound mostly in frontal region. 14 Impairment of hearing; wounds mostly in parietal and temporal regions, but some frontal and some occipital. !) Epilepsy. 10 Insanity. Fractures of the Skull are invariably the result of external Aiolence. I his may act directlij in breaking and sj)lintering the part struck, the fissures often extending to a considerable disttnice and detaching large portions of the skull; or the \iolence may act in an indirect manner, producing the fi’acture cither without being applied immediately to the cranium, or else at an opposite part of the skull to that which is struck. Thus the base of the skull may be fractured by the shock communicated to it when a person, falling fr-om a height, strikes the gTound heavily with his feet. The -s'ariety of indirect fr-ac- turc m which the lesion occurs at a point of the skull opposite to that wliich has been struck, is the Fracture Vij Contrecouj).