-34 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. these circumstances Hamilton states that, although his experience in that great uarhas led him to the conclusion that in the upper tliird tlie life is least hazarded by aii attempt to saA'o the limb, in the middle third conservatism and imputation afford an equal chance, whilst in the lower third of the thigh the chances are in favoiu' ot amputation. This is a conclusion A'ory similar to that arri-\'ed at by British Siu’geons. 'l^Tien an attempt is made to save the limb, ill apjiaratus, the characteristic principle of which is continuous extension and counter-extension, Avith but few splints and bandages, should be used ; so the limb may be seciu’ely fixed in the plaster-of-Pai’is apparatus. 3. In gim-shot fractiu-es of the lonesof the leg, amputation becomes necessary if the tibial arteries be injured, or if the knee or ankle-joint be badly wounded. If the injmy be in the middle of the leg, at a distance from these joints, and jiroA’ided there be not longitudinal fissmlng of the bone leading into them, much may be done to save the limb, by the extraction of splinters, and the remoA^al of sharp and angular fragments of bone, the hmb being put up in the plaster-of-Paris apparatus. In such cases, the patient may recover A\dth a shortened but otherivise useful limb. 4. Gun-shot wounds of the foot, if perforating and splintering the tarsus, require amputation, either at or above the ankle. Those of the hand are of special interest fi’om their frequency, in consequence of the bursting of guns, or of powder-flask explosions. In these cases, however extensive the injury may be that is indicted upon the hand, fingers being bloum aAvay, the thumb throAvn back, and the metacarpal bones splintered, we must endeaA'oiu, if pos- sible, to save a portion of it, if it be only one or tu’o fingers ; and, owing to the gTcat reparatiA'e power possessed by the hand, avc shall often, in the worst- looking cases, be able to accomplish this. If the thumb, AAuth one finger as an opponent, can be preserved, it will be of more service to the patient than any artificial contrh’ance, hoAA'ever ingeniously made. It not unfr’equently happens that amputation may be required in the more adA’anced stages of gun-shot injmy, in consequence of mortification. In these circumstances, it must be practised Anthout delay, and Avithout AA’aiting for the line of separation. If, in consequence of long-continued suffering and dischai’ge, the patient’s health become gueatly deteriorated, and the limb remain an useless appendage, ampu- tation Avill at last be imperative. 0. Gun-shot injiuies of joints are necessarily most serious and fatal—the danger depending on the*size and complexity of the articulation, rather than on the extent of the injury. Wounds of any of the thi-ee large joints of the lower extremity are especially dangerous and fatal; those of the upper ex- tremity are more readily, and indeed connnoidy, recovered from. The fact of a joint being wounded is generally obA’ious enough from the direction taken by the ball, the comminution of the bones, and perhaps the escape of synoAia ; but a joint may be fatally injiued by the longitudinal siDhtting of the bone into it, although the bullet has not passed Avithin some inches of it. In bullet-wounds of joints, excision may be advantageously substituted for amputation in cases in which the soft parts are not too extcnsiAcly torn, the large nerves and A’essels are uninjured, and the shaft of the bone not too widely splintered, the mischief being chiefly confined to the articular ends. Bullet-Avounds of the head, neclo, or trochanters of the femur, splintering t le