666 Fig. 206.—Seuile Gangi'ene of Foot : Line of Separation. MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. limits next the gangrono ; the lino, indeed, along which the dead and living parts touch. It extends along the whole dej^th of the gangrene, completely snrronnding it on all its attached sides. It appears to be formed exactly by the same process, and by the same mechanism, as that by which lymph is effused around any foreign body or fluid accumulation that has lost its vitality. Just as lymph forms the boundary wall to extravasation of blood, or to accu- mulation of pus in an abscess, so it forms a barrier, deposited in the living tissues, to separate them from the dead structures beyond, Avhich by their loss of vitality have become foreign to the adjoining healthy structiu'es. The inflammation, if any be j)resent, is re- duced in intensity at this part; it does not, however, cease abruptly, but fades away in the healthy structures beyond it. When the gangrene is airested, natme throws off the spoilt parts, not by a process of disintegration or falling to pieces of these parts, but by a vital act —a process of ulceration, extending through the line of demarcation, and loosening the slough or necrosed tissue by the softening and absorption of that layer of living tissue which lies next to it. This line of ulceration is termed the line of separation, and extends itself along the extreme inax’gin of the living tissues (Fig. 2GG). This process of separation, commencing at the edge of the slough, which gradually loosens, slowly extends downwards to the whole depth of the gan- grene ; if this affect the entire thickness of the limb, the ulceration v\ill find its way completely across it. If the slough be more superficial, the ulcerative action passes underneath it, and detaches it gradually. The line of separation is usually oblique, the soft parts being first divided, and the hard tissues then ulcerated through, until the ligamentous or osseous structures are leached, which are slowly acted upon. As the ulceration extends across the limb, the largest arteries and veins are cut through by it, without the occmrence of htemorrhage, ovsdng to a mass of plastic matter being poured out in their interior, and blocking them up from the line of separation to the nearest large coUateral branch above it. The period required for the detachment of gangrenous parts varies according to their extent. Small sloughs may e detached in a few days, whilst many weeks are required for the separation of a limb. The action is most rapid in the soft vascular tissues and in youug subjects. , After the separation of the gangrened part, a more or less ragged irregui ulcerated surface is left, which, if not too extensive, and the patient’s reparative powers be in a favomable state, wiU undergo cicatrisation by the same process as in ordinary ulcers. This indeed, commences while the separatioii is going on; granulations gTadually appeai-ing in that part of Jhc Ime separation wlh’ch has effected its purpose of cutting off t c ceac lom living parts. , DiAGXOSis.-The diagnosis is easily effected when gangi-enc has fully devc