4o6 SPECIAL FRA CTURES. separated from the posterior part of the clavicle was found lying upon, and compressing, the subclavian vein. Dr. John Ogle relates a case of comminuted fracture of the clavicle from direct violence, in which the right internal jugular vein was lacerated by one of the fr’agmcnts, there being great extravasation of blood. Treatment of Simple Fracture of the Clavicle.—There are few frac- tures for the cure of which so great a variety of ingenious and complicated contrivances has been devised, as those of the clavicle, and there arc few in which so much ingenuity has been displayed in vahx; for, however perfect the apparatus may appear to be, it seldom answers the pm-pose intended, viz., to cure the fractine mthout deformity. I believe that more may be done with a little skill and patience by simple means, than by the most elaborate mechanical contrivances. When the fr’actine occins at the tip of the acromial end of the clavicle, there is little if any linear disj)lacement of the broken bone ; and a figm-e-of-8 bandage round the shoulders, and keeping the arm in a sling, xvill prevent the tendency to rotation of the shoulder forwards. When the bone is broken undeineath the scapulo-clavicular h'gaments, there is but little displacement, and the same treatment will suffice. But when the fractme is situated towards the middle of the bone, or indeed at any point to the inside of these ligaments, then the management is more chfficidt; and there are three principal indications to be attended to in order to con’ect the triple displacement of the scapular fragment. 1. By making a fulcrum of a thick wedge-shaped cushion with its broad end upwards in the axiUa, and then bringing the elbow closely to the side, the humerus is made to act as a lever and chaw the shoulder and the scapular fragment outwards, thus correcting the displacement inwards. 2. By pressing the elbow Avell backwards, behind the lateral median line of the body, the tendency to rotation forwards of the shoulder is removed. 3. By elevating the shoulder, and taking off the weight of the arm by means of a short shng that passes well imder the elbow, the displacement doAvnwards is remedied. By these simple means the triple displacement of the outer fragment is cor- rected. But the great difficulty consists in keeping the fractme in a good position; and when it is obhque, this becomes almost impossible, so that a cure without nodular or angular deformity is very seldom obtained. I used formerly to recommend that the fingers should be bandaged sepa- rately, the pahn wadded, and the bandage earned up as high as the axillary pad. More extended experience leads me to doubt the expediency of aU these directions, and I now content myself with simply bandaging the hand and fore- arm lightly and leaving the tips of the fingers free, so that the conditions of the circulation through the limb can be watched. Care must be taken not to use the lever-like movement of the ai-m against the fulcrum of the axillary pad too forcibly lest the axillary vein or plexus of nerves be compressed. Before applying the roller, the elbow must always be flexed : otherwise undue and dangerous constriction of the arm may occur. The pad should be firm, made of bed-tick stuffed with brarr, six irrehes long, five broad, arrd three thick at its upper part; the sling must support the elbow, and the band shorrld be well raised across the chest. Irr the accompanyirrg figure, the sling docs irot