TREATMENT OF CONTUSION. 187 examination of the contents of the tumour imdcr the microscope, will always clear np any doubt that may exist. TiiKATiiECT.—In the lix-st two degi’ees of contusion, om- great object should l)c to excite, as speedily as possible, the absorption of the extravasated blood.^ Here cold applications are of especial service ; lotions composed of one part of spirits of wine to eight or ten of water should be constantly apphed. Leeches —commonly used in these cases—shoidd not be applied to a bruised part; they cannot remove the blood that has already been extravasated, and often set np great iiritation, which leads to suppimation. The bag of blood should never be opened, however soft,and fluctuating it may feel, so long as there is any chance of procuring its absorption by discutient remedies. If once it be punctiu’ed and air be allowed to enter, putrefactive suppuration vdll be set up in it. But if signs of inflammation occm’ around it, the parts becoming red, hot, and painfully throbbing, free incisions should at once be made, the blood —aheady disorganised and mixed with pus—^be discharged, and the cavity allowed to granulate. Pm-ging and general depletory treatment wiU often promote absorption of the extravasation. In the third and foiuth degrees of contusion, it is generally useless to attempt to save the life of the injiued part. Here poultices must be applied to hasten suppiuation and the separation of the sloughs ; the ulcer that results being treated on general principles. Disorganising contusions of the most severe kind may be recovered fr’om P'ovided time he m external wound, even though the soft structures of the limb or pai-t be extensively crushed, the bones comminuted, and the joints opened. It is not the subcutaneous lacerations and disorganisations that are to be dreaded ; so long as the main blood-vessels of the part injured are intact, these may be recovered from. But it is the admission of air into the interioy of a badly injured limb that constitutes the great danger. If this can be avoided there is little fear of undue inflammation being excited, provided proper precautions are taken ; but if air be once admitted into the lacerated tissues, suppuratix'e and sloughing action is at once set up, and the safety of the patient will be seriously imperilled. In such cases as these, amputation is usually the sole resoiu’ce, unless the progress of the mischief can be arrested by the employment of the antiseptic treatment or some equally efficient plan. flhe difference between the effects of a subcutaneous laceration and one accompanied by open wound is well exemplified in the cases of a “ simple ” and a compound dislocation. In the first case, although the ligaments and capsulai muscles are extensively torn, often vdtli great extrax'asation of blood, repail takes place ivithout any serious trouble, often with scarcely any inflam- ^ matoiy action ; whilst in tlie compound dislocation, where air has boon admitted, the most extensive suppurative action necessarily ensues, and joint, nub, or life, one or other, is in great danger of being irretrievably lost. Contusions of internal organs are always very serious, and require special rcatment, according to the part that is affected, and the extent of its injury. Strangulation of Parts.—This, ivhen accidental, occasionally occurs as G consequence of the application of a constricting ligature or bandage, or the s ippmg of a tight ring over a part. In such cases, the first effect of''this con- stnction 13 to prevent the retimi of the venous blood ; this impediment to the