INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. 2 12 extensive oi* deep, we must facilitate the separation of the sloughs by the appli- cation of -warmth and moistimo, which also serve to subdue local inflammation. Carded oakum, moistened in hot water find covered w'th oiled silk, answers this piu'pose better than poultices : it is cleaner and more readily applied, soaks up the discharges, and is to a certain extent antiseptic. Dismfecfants should be freely used in all contused and lacerated wounds. The wounds must be washed, syringed, or sprayed out several times a day -noth A\-eak solutions of the chlorides, of the permanganates, or of carbolic acid. In this wey sloughs and decomposing pus may be removed, and the tendency to local inflammation of an erysipelatous character, and the development of pyrnmia, averted. There is no more fertile cause of these disastrous effects than the retention of foetid decomposing pus in the areolar tissue of a contused wound. It is in this class of wounds that the antiseptic treatment has met with its greatest success. Under its use, iniion has taken place in very extensive injuries, loss of substance being replaced by granulations ; the crushed and tom tissues, which would othervuse have probably sloughed off, appearing to become re-vitalised : and all this has occurred without any general febrile distin-bance, and with the loss of but a small quantity of serous fluid in the shape of discharge. But, valuable as the antiseptic treatment incontestably is in many of these cases, it may occasionally fail in preventing suppuration. Should this happen, all plasters and tight and obstructive dressings must at once be removed, so as to allow a fr-ee exit of the discharges fr-om the wound. If this precaution be neglected, the most disastrous consequences, local and con- stitutional, will ensue fr’om the retention and infiltration of the pus and decomposing material in the textime of the limb or part. About the period at which the slough begins to be loosened, there is danger of the occuiTence of haemorrhage, if a large artery have been implicated in the injiuy. T\Tien haemorrhage occurs in this way, it usually sets in fr’om the sixth to the twelfth day, and may be speedily fatal; its treatment Anil be the same as that to be hereafter described for secondary haemoiThage after ligatmc of an artery in its continuity. After the sloughs haA'e separated, an ulcer is left, which must be treated on general principles. Amputation.—In the more severe cases of contused or lacerated womids, any attempt at saving the part may be hopeless, and the patient’s only chance lies in amiMtation. In determining the expediency of operation, two questions present themselves : 1, the natme of the cases in which amputation should be performed ; and, 2, the time at w'hich it should be done, whether immediately after the infliction of the injiuy, or subsequently. It is difficult to lay down more than very general rules as to the hind of cases that require amputation; much depending on the age, constitution, and pre-vious habits of the patient. In all cases the Siu-geon should be careful not to condemn a limb that admits of a fair chance of being saved ; and, if the patient should happen to die, as he often may, fr'om the after-effects, such as erysipelas or phlebitis, of a contused Avound that admitted a lair jii’ospcct of recovery, the Smgeon may justly console himself Avith the reflection that, Avith the constitutional disposition leading to these diseases, the injury inflicted by the amputation Avould in all probability have been equally fatal, and that thus the patient has been saved the pain of an operation that would haA'c been unsuccessfrrl in its result. i