ENTBANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. 334 If the patient survive the immediate effects of the accident, he may probably recover vathont any bad symptoms, as happened in the case to which I have referred as occurring at the University College Hospital, and in an instance recorded by B. Cooper. The presence of the air in the pulmonic capillaries •woxdd appear in some cases to act as an irritant, and to induce fatal pneumonia or bronchitis, as happened to the patients of E-onx and Malgaignc. Cause.—The cause of the spontaneous entry of air into the veins has been very completely investigated and determined by the French Commission. If we open a large vein at the root of a dog’s neck, near the thorax, in which the venous pulse, or flux and reflux of the blood, is perceptible, we shall see that air rushes in at each inspiration—but only at this time—never gaining entry during expiration. This is ovdng to the tendency to the formation of a 'I'acumn Avithin the thorax, more particularly in the pericardium, dm-ing inspiration. This suction action, or “ venous inspu-ation,” is confined to the large A-essels in and near the thoracic cavity, being limited by the collapse of the coats of the veins at a little distance from this. If the veins were rigid tubes, it ivould extend thi’oughout the body ; but as they are not, it ceases Avhere the coats collapse. It is indeed limited to that part of the root of the neck and the axilla where the venous flux and reflux are perceptible ; and the space in which it occins has been termed the “ dangerous region.” But, in certain circum- stances, air may spontaneously gain admission at points beyond this. It is weU known that what is called by the French Surgeons the “ canalisa- tion ” of a vein, or its conversion into a rigid uncollapsiug tube, is the con- dition which is most favoinable to the introduction of air into it. Indeed, except in those situations in Avhich there is a natm-al movement of flnx and reflux of the blood in the veins, this accident cannot occur imless these vessels be canahsed, or, in other words, prevented fr’om collapsing. This canalisation of the vessel may be occasioned in a variety of ways. Either the cut vein may be sini’ounded by indm-ated areolar tissue, Avhich will not allow it to retract upon itself, but keeps it ojjen like the hepatic vems ; or the coats of the vessel may have acquired, as a consequence of inflammation or hypertrophy, such a degree of thickness as to prevent their falling together Avhen divided. Then, again, the principal veins at the root of the neck have, as Berard has pointed out, such intimate connections with the neighboining aponeinotic structmus, that they are constantly kept in a state of tension, so that their sides are held apart Avhen they are cut across. The contractions of the platysma and other muscles of the neck may likewise, as Sir C. Bell has shown, haA'e a similar effect. In removing a tumoin, also, that is situated about the neck, the trac- tion exercised upon its pedicle may, if this contains a vein, cause it to become temporarily canahsed ; and the incomplete section of the A'essel, especially in a transverse direction, must j)revent the approximation of the sides of the incision in it, which will be rendered open and gaping by the retraction of the sur- rounding tissues. This patency of the incision in the vein is apt to be increased by the position that is necessarily given to the head and ai-m, in all operations of any magnitude about the shoulders and neck. Lastly, the introduction of air into a vein will be faA'oined by the vessel being diAuded in the angle ot a Avound, the A'ein being, Avhen the flaps that form the angle are lifted up, made open-mouthed and gaping.