INFLUENCE OF GENERAL HEALTH. 5 1, All other circumstances being alike, the condition of a patient that principally determines the result of an operation is the State of the General Health. Indeed, success is influenced tar more by the state of the patient’s constitution than by the severity of an operation itself, or even by the mecha- nical dexterity udth vliich the Surgeon performs it. Veiy often we sec a patient carried olf by fatal disease supervening on some extremely trifling- operation, (such as the removal of a small encysted tumour,) which in itself ought in no way to endanger life, were it not that the patient’s constitu- tion was at the time of its performance in so mihealthy a state that the slightest exciting cause has been sufficient to call into activity fatal disease. So, also, it is no uncommon circumstance to , see one patient sink after the most dexterously performed operation for hernia, or stone, the ligatm-e of an artery, &c., owing to some morbid condition of the blood or of the system that disposes to low or diffuse inflammation; whilst another may possibly make the most remarkable and rapid recovery after he has been mutilated with but httle skill. Independently of actual organic disease of the viscera, of which I shall hereafter speak, there are certain conditions of the body with respect to the condition of the nervous system, the circulation, and the general physical state, that exercise an injiu’ious influence. Thus, persons of an iiritable and amxious mind do not bear operations so well as those of a more tranquil mental constitution. Those also of a feeble and iiritable habit of body, especially nervous and hysterical women, with but little strength of circulation, cannot bear up against severe siu'gical procedures, and often sink after comparatively slight ones ; being apt to become depressed and exhausted, and to sink vdthout rallying. Persons who are overloaded vdth fat are not good subjects for sm-gical operations. In them the circulation is usually feeble ; the womid heals slowly and is apt to become sloughy ; and intercinrent disease of a low type often sets in. Short of actual structin-al disease of impor- tant organs, as the liuigs, heart, or kidneys, I know no condition more mi- favomable to success after operations than premature or excessive obesity. In some states of the system the patient, although apparently in his usual health and not affected by any recognisable disease, may yet have the blood in so bad a state so charged, perhaps, udth morbid matters, that the least physical or even mental disturbance may call into activity the latent elements of mischief. It is in such conditions of the system as this that tri-vdal operations, in themselves unattended by danger, such as the extirpation of a sebaceous cyst or the removal of a pile, may be followed by severe, dangerous, and possibly fatal constitu- tional disturbance. The operation is the act that puUs the trigger and finally detemiiues the explosion of previously stored-up materials of mischief. Patients with a high temperatin-e should ne^'er be operated on except for the lelief of that vei-y condition which occasions the elevation of temperature, such as the accumulation of pus, or in one of those four great surgical emergencies that demand under all and every circumstance immediate operation ; viz. : 1, dangerous haemon-hago ; 2, impcnchng asphyxia ; 3, strangulated hernia ; and 4, over-chstended bladder. The urgency of these conditions, which may be emed the four classes of primary surgical ingency, overrides all other con- siderations. An individual of a sound constitution, that has never been impaired by