THE PllOGESS OF REPAllL I?2 CHAPTEE YII. —♦— THE PROCESS OP REPAIR. Having, in the three preceding Chapters, described certain pathological conditions in which interference mth the normal nutrition of the part is a prominent featine, and having, m regard to one of these, indicated the means by which Natine repairs the injiuy, we have now to give a smnmaiy of the means by which injiuies in general are repaired. Singical operations generally necessitate the production of woimds, which differ in no essential respects fi’om the incised wounds to be described in Chapter IX. ; and the description of the various forms of the heahng process, to be now given, will be equally apphc- able to the effects of the Singeon’s knife and to the wounds arising from accident. A wound, or solution of continuity, may miite in one of the following fi-se ways :—l,by the direct gi’owiiig together of two opposed siu’faces—immediate union ; 2, by immediate miion imder a scab ; 3, by the union through the inedimn of coagulable lymph of the opposed siu’faces—luiion by primaiy adhesion ; 4, by the springing up from the bottom and sides of the wound of gi'anulations which eventually become covered with an epidermic layer ; and 5, by the gro\viug together of two granulating surfaces—secondary adhesion. The first thi’ee methods of repair are confined in their action to incised and punctiu’ed womids, the fii’st being special to clean incisions. The last two may occim in incised woimds, if either of the three preceding ones fail, and are the only means by vdiich contused and lacerated wounds, vith some rare exceptions, have been known to heal. 1. Immediate Union.—The direct growing together of opposite siufaces was termed by Hiuiter “ Union by the First Intention: ” but most modern Siu’geons extend the latter term to the union by adhesive uiflammation, or primary adhesion. Wounds that unite in this way do so by the simple and direct coalescence of the opposite surfaces ; and not, as Himter sup- posed, by the interposition of a layer of effused blood ; or, as others hai-e imao-ined, by lymph poimed out to form an ranting mediirai. Macartney pointed out the error of these doctrines, and showed that the process consists essentially in the accraate apposition of clean cut parts which mute and grow together directly in the corase of a few horas, without inflannnation or any of its products being requfred to effect the radon ; hence he termed it “immediate union. The Conditions neccssaiy for direct union are the following 1. A healthy constitution ; 2. The perfect coaptation of the cut srafaccs ; 3. The exclusion of air and foreign bodies from between the sides of the voirac , . i absence of all inflannnatory action ; and 5. A certain homogeneity o s uic rae.