SYMPTOMS OF HYDROPHOBIA. 245 enters, however cleanly its exterior may be wiped, this drop of poison is injected into the parts at the extreme point of penetration. A snake that bites through a gaiter or glove, would, therefore, inflict as deadly a womid as if the unprotected foot or hand were struck by the fang ; whereas the tooth of the rabid dog would be wiped, and the bite be harmless. The period that intervenes between the Ihte and the occiuTence of the disease is usually considerable. Meade has related the case of a lady who had the disease fifteen months after the bite ; and flayer of St. Petersbiu'gh that of a young man who died of hydrophobia twenty-six months after being bitten. Elliotson says that the average time that elapses between the injury and the symptoms is from six weeks to three months. In the case of the Duke of Kichmond, who was bitten by a tame fox, the disease did not develop itself until between six and seven weeks after the injury. Writers, however, in stating that six, seven, twelve, and even fifteen years have intervened between the infliction of the wound and the manifestation of the symptoms, have e^•idently committed an exaggeration or fallen into eiTor, having proljably con- founded with hydrophobia other nervous affections that closely resemble it. SYMFrovrs.—The woimd has generally cicatrised long before any symptoms of hydrophobia declare themseh'es ; and no peculiar a|3j)earance is presented by the scar. Shooting pains, twitching and itching sensations have, however, occasionally been experienced in the site of the wound before the suj)er- vention of the attack ; and it is probable that in aU cases some process ana- logous to a zymotic action takes place within it before the disease comes on. The precise natm-e of this requires to be elucidated by further observation. The symptoms are usually ushered in for two or three days (according to Periy for five or six) by some antecedent phenomena, consisting of giddiness, chills, and heats, and a general feeling of discomfort. In some cases vesicles under the tongue have been observed. The more special symptoms never manifest themselves imtil the disease is fairly established ; they consist essen- tially in violent and repeated commlsive movements of a reflex character, induced by vailous external influences acting on the smfface of the body or on the fauces, or by mental impressions ; and they speedily end in exhaustion and death. The special symptoms consist of: 1, Spasmodic Affection of the Muscles of Deglutition and Eespiration; 2, Extreme Sensibihty of the Siuface and of the Senses ; and 3, Excessive Mental Terror and Agitation. 1. In consequence of the Spasmodic Affection of the Muscles of Deglutition, the act of swallowing commonly excites convulsions ; hence the p<itient experiences a horror of all liquids ; and, in attempting to chink, gulps owji the fluid with a strong mental effort. In some cases, solids give rise to e^ same difficulty in deglutition as liquids ; but occasionally, though rarely patients have been kno^vn to swaUow perfectly well throughout the disease’. swallowng is certainly 03ving to an excessive sensibility about e p arjnx and throat, in consequence of which every effort at deglutition m uces violent reflex convulsive movements in aU the muscles and narts supplied by the pneumogastric nerve. A catch in the breathing, resembhng what often occius when a person goes the mhkf ®y™P<^oms, taking place in ffist of conversation, and before the patient’s mind is directed to the