dislocation of the patella. S°9 usually happens from sudden muscular contraction, especially in prsons who are knock-kneed. In some cases it has been occasioned by direct violence, the bone out of its position. Most frequently, the patella is only partially displaced outwards, with some rotation of the bone in the same direction Holthouse {Lancet, vol. ii., 1872) has recorded a case of congenital dis- location of the patella outwards. The abnormality was met mth in a boy a-cd seven, who had been admitted into the Westminster Hospital for fracture of the left femur, milst putting up the fracture, it was observed that the right patella was so displaced that its inner articular facet rested on the outer condyle, and that when the knee was flexed the dislocation became complete. The/e was no inclination inwards of either knee. The mother alleged that the condition had existed from birth, and that at first both knees were aftected. The boy could run and jimip as well as other children, and was not more liable to fall than they. ^ , . , , • , • . i 2. The dislocation Inwards is very rare ; Malgaigne, who has investigated this subject, is of opinion that there is only one case of the kind on record.^ In these lateral dislocations. Reduction may be effected by laying the patient on his back, bending the thigh on the abdomen, and raising the leg so as to relax the extensor muscles. The Surgeon then, by pressing down that edge of the patella which is fiu’thest from the middle of the joint, raises the other edge, which, beuig tilted over the condyles, is immediately drawn into position by the action of the extensors. 3. A remarkable form of dislocation of the patella is that in which this bone becomes tivisted upon its axis in such a way that it is placed Vertically, one of its edges (usually the outer) being fixed between the condyles, and the other projecting under the skin, and pushing this forwards into a distinct tumour. In some cases, as those of Woolf and Mayo, the bone has been turned almost completely round, the posterior articular siu’face becoming partly anterior. The signs of this dislocation are evident, manual examination indicating the vertical displacement of the patella, with a deep depression on each side. The hmb is completely extended, flexion being impossible. This pecuhar dislocation is of very rare occurrence, there being not more than about fourteen cases on record. It has most generally arisen from sharp blows or severe falls upon one edge of the patella, whilst the limb has been semiflexed,’in consequence of which the bone appears to have been semirotated and fixed in its new position. Violent muscular contraction, however, con- joined with a tmst of the leg, but without any blow, has been known to produce it in some cases. The Reduction of this displacement has sometimes been very difficult; in other cases it has been readily effected ; whilst in two or three mstances it has been found to be quite impracticable; Surgeons having ineffectually attempted by means of elevators and the section of the tendons or of the ligamentum patellre, to replace the bone, and the patient having eventually died from traumatic suppuration of the joint, with the displacement inuelieved. The cause of this difficulty of reduction is not very distinctly made out; it is cer- tainly much greater than can be explained by simple muscular contraction, and may not improbably be owing to the aponeurotic structiues which cover the bone becoming twisted or entangled under it, or, as Malgaigne supposes, to the