TUMOURS. 792 multiple cancel’s ever occurs. Tumours may form in certain cases in rapid suc- cession, but ne\ei simultaneously. But primary cancer does not occur at the same time at diffeient oi these seats of election—as the mamma, pylorus, and rectum, as would be the case were it constitutional. 3. Cancers arc not unfrcquently the result of some local injury or in’itation. This is a matter of daily observation in the lip, the tongue, the female breast, &c. ■ 4. The primary tumour only attacks certain organs which are the seats of irregular functional activity, as organs of generation, or certain parts of other organs, as of intestinal tubes. 5. The constitutional health does not, in the majority of cases, suffer until some months have elapsed ; when, after the lymphatics or glands have become implicated, or the neighbouring tissues invaded, but not until then, signs of cachexy set in. In many cases of cancer, especially of the mamma, the health continues excellent for many months—a year or two even after the disease has declared itself, and so long as it continues to be confined to its primary seat. It is not imtil after secondary deposits have occurred that the characteristic cachexy sets in. 6. If the primary tumoiu’ be removed before neighbom-ing parts have become contaminated, the health, if it have suffered, often improves materially. 7. Primary cancer becomes secondary or constitutional—a. By extension by continuity of tissue to neighbouring parts adjacent to primary disease • /3. Through lymphatics ; and y. Through blood, leading to deposits in internal organs. 8. Secondary cancers affect the foi-m of the primary one. Thus, primary cncephaloid leads to deposit of encephaloid masses in the lungs ; scin’hus of the rectum to secondary scirrhus of the liver, with identical structural peculiarities. 1). Growth is favoured by local circumstances, as warmth and moistiu’c of cavities. 10. In some rare instances no recurrence whatever takes place after opera- tion, the disease being eradicated from the system, which coidd not be the case if it were constitutional. In the majority of cases, the patient remains fr’ee from recurrence of the disease for many months, or even years. 11. When recurrence does take place soon after an operation, it is almost invariably either in the cicatrix or its immediate neighbom’hood, owing to cancer-ceUs which had been widely infiltrated, or had migrated, escaping removal, and subsequently developing into new tumom’S. Were the disease constitutional, recurrence would be as likely to take place in other parts, espe- cially in symmetrical parts, or as it does when the operation has been too long delayed in internal organs. 12. We observe the same tendency to recurrence after removal, and even to seeondary deposit in distant organs, in other tumours which are incontestably primarily local, such as the sarcomata and the enchondromata, and which only become general in certain constitutions under special conditions in thcii more advanced stages, and in a secondary manner. The theory of the local origin of cancer is undoubtedly a very captivating one. It explains in the readiest and the simplest way possible most of the