630 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. ]iot 1)C closed, but the patient slioidd be laid on the ■wounded side, and a piece <d' water-dressing applied, otherwise emphysema or hicmothorax will certainly occur. In either case, the wall of the chest on the injured side should be fixed by long- and broad strips of plaster, an aperture being left between the strips opposite to the seat of injury. Monat states that the best results have followed this practice in the army. In wounds of the chest-walls, the intercostal arteries usually seem to- cscape ; or at least, if Avoiuided, they do uot often bleed in a troublesome mauner. Should profuse haemorrhage occur from this source, I believe that the only safe mode of arresting it is to open up the Avound, and, if necessary, to enlarge it so as to roach the bleeding vessel. Should this fail, compression- must bo trusted to. An infinity of devices have been recommended for the- suppression of this kind of htemorrhage ; but they are for the most part more- ingenious than useful and but little applicable to practice, and, indeed, the complication is so rare in chest wounds, that it is needless to describe them. Wounds of the internal mammary artery are rare, considering its exposed situation. They may, hoAvever, occur it the chest be jjeuetrated in front through the intercostal spaces or costal cartilages. The danger in these cases is ft’om the ha3moiThage taking place sloAAdy into the anterior medias- tinum, or into one of the pleurae, AAithout any external bleeding reA'ealing the mischief. If the wound of the A’essel be ascertained, an attempt should be made, by enlarging the external apertme, to seize and ligatme the bleeding- ends, cutting directly doAAii upon them through the injured intercostal space ; or the A’essel might CA'en be foUoAved beneath one of the costal cartilages, if necessary, by cuttina’ through this. Should much blood haAC already been- extraA'asated, this must be removed through the external Avound, by the- introduction of a female catheter, or by the application of a cuppmg-glass oa ei it, and the case then treated like one of effusion into the chest. In the Constitutional Treatment of these injuries, the first indication consists in diminishing the quantity and force of the blood circulating through the lungs, and thus, by lessening the impidse of the heart and increasing the tendency for the blood to coagulate in the spongy pulmonary tissue and smallei- A-essels, to endeavoin to an-est the hteraoiThage from these organs. I he patient must be kept lying on the injm-ed side, and have nothing but ice and barley-water allowed. If the hiemorrhage have been very abundant, the collapse and fainting consequent upon this may tend to induce a natiira cessation of the bleecling, Avhich thus often spontaneously ceases on the sijier- A-ention of syncope. Should the haemoptysis, however, continue or retimi from^ time to time, what should be done ? Here a veiy considerable disorepancy ot opinion exists amongst Surgeons; the question at issue being Avhether a ene- scction should be adopted with the A'iew of restraining the hemorrhage, or the l,atient be treated by rest, low diet, ice, digitalis, ood similar totheelose of tlie Crimean war, tlie most experienced T' “amd moiis ill their opinion, that the patient’s safety lies 111 free >»1“" “ venesection. .John Bell, Hennen, and Giithrie, all concur m ni^ng necessity of ft-ee venesection so as to keep down the ayion ^ arteries, -fflienever this rises and the cough or hajmoptysis letiiins. lecomse