34 AMPUTATIONS. CHAPTEE II. —»— AMPUTATIONS AND DISARTICULATIONS. The tcnn AmjmtaUon means the separation or removal of a part of the body. It is most commonly applied to the removal of a limb, but sometimes also to that of other parts, as the breast or penis. The fre(juency of amputation of the limbs has much lessened of late years ; other and less se^'ere modes of treatment being now successfully followed in many cases of diseased joint, of aneurism, and of compound fractiu'e. Still amputations are among the most frequent operations in siu’gery, and uiU con- tinue to be so as long as the human body is hable to severe mutilations, to gangrene of the limbs, and to malignant and other incurable diseases of the- bones and joints. It has been somewhat the fashion to decry amputation ; and to speak of this operation as an opprobrium to curative surgery. Biit, though no Surgeon can deprecate mmecessary amputations more strongly than I do, yet I caimot admit that the removal of a limb is an operation of less merit than any other proceeding adopted when all other means have failed in ciu’ing- the diseased part, or in saving the patient’s life finm danger. And, smely, it is rather a subject of just pride than the reverse, for the Siu’geon to be able to- save the whole of the body by sacrificing by a simple operation a limb that has been utterly disorganised or spoilt by disease or injiuy. In the perfoimance of an amputation, also, much dexterity may frequently be displayed ; and there is conunonly gveat scope for surgical skill in the constitutional treatment of the patient both before and after the operation. The amputation of a limb is generally perfoimed through the continuity of a bone ; when done at a joint, it is called a Bisartimlatimi. THE PERFORMANCE OP AN AMPUTATION. In performing an amjmtation there are several distinct steps which must be considered separately. They consist in—1. The prevention of heemorrhage during the operation; 2. The mode of forming the flaps or of cutting' through the soft parts ; 3. Sawing the bone ; 4. The arrest of hasmon’hage after the removal of the limb ; and 5. The dressing of the stiunp. 1. Prevehtioh op H^bmoerhage.—The loss of blood during the operation is the great primary danger which must be careftiUy guarded against. As a general rule, it is better to prevent this by the apj)lication of a tourniquet than by trusting to the compression of the artery by an assistant’s fingers; the toimiiquet arrests the flow of blood through the collateral vessels as well as through the main trunk, whilst the finger can only stop the cmvent of blood that passes thi’ough the latter. When the tom-niquet is applied, the pad should be carefully placed OA'cr the artery, and the baud buckled rather tight but the instnunent should not be screwed up until the moment of the opera- tion. It should then be tightened rapidly, so as to lessen the liability tO' congestion of the lower pai’t of the limb that always occurs when a tourniquet