6o8 INJUBIES OF THE THROAT. patient is able to swallow. In those cases in which the wonnd is above the larynx, there is occasional danger ol the supervention of oedema of tlie glottis ; should this occur, tracheotomy may be necessary to prolong the Tjatient’s life. As consequences of wounds of the throat, we occasionally find stricture of the trachea, or aerial fistula. If the vocal chords have been injured, loss of voice may follow. Aerial Fistula may sometimes form owing to the skin doubling in and becoming adherent to the edges of the wound in the air-tube, and most fre- quently occui’S when the cut is in the thyro-hyoid space ; adhesion taking place between the inverted integuments and the os hyoidcs above, and the surface of the thjnoid cartilage below. The same may occm- in the crico- thyi’oid space, and indeed at any part of the larynx that has been opened. When this happens, there is a tendency to the fistula continuing patent. In these circumstances, I have found the following operation successful. The edges of the fistulous opening having been freely pared, and the knife passed under them for some distance so as to detach them from the subjacent parts, a vertical incision is made through the lower lip of the opening, so as to split it downAvards. Two points of suture are then inserted into each side of the horizontal incisions, bringing their edges into contact, lut the vertical cut is left free for discharges and mucus to drain through, and for the expired air to escape, lest emphysema occur. Unless this outlet be afforded, these fluids Avill bm-st through the sutures, and thus destroy union of the edges. It is not in every case that an aerial fistula can be safely closed. In some instances the larynx becomes contracted either by di-awing in of the wound, or by thickening of the mucous membrane above the artificial opening to such an extent that the fistula becomes essential, in addition to the orifice of the glottis, for the purposes of respiration. In such circumstances, any attempt at dosing it will be attended or followed by symptoms of impending asphyxia or collapse of the lungs ; and it may be necessary to leave the opening fi-ee, or even, as happened in a case under my care, in which an opening was left in the crico-thyroid membrane of a girl who had attempted suickle by cutting her throat, to enlarge the opening and to introduce a silver tube m order to relieve the breathing from the effects of the laryngeal constriction. PoEBiGN Bodies in the Air-Passage.—A great variety of substances have been found in the air-passage : such as nut-shells, beans, cherry-stones, teeth, meat, money, buttons, pins, fish-bones, bullets, pills, pebbles, and pieces of stick. These foreign bodies are not introduced into the air-passage by any effort of deglutition, for no substance can be stvallowed through^ the glottis ; but they are inhaled; thus, if a person, whilst holding anything in his mouth make a sudden inspiration, the current of air may draw it between the dilated lips of the glottis into the larynx. , . , , i j • The symptoms vary, according to the situation in which the foieigm ° 7 lodged, its nature, and the period that has elapsed since the occim-ence of the uccrdeit. The foroign body may lodge in one of the ventricles of the Im^x ; or, if light, it may float in the trachea, carried up and down by the move- ment of the air in expiration and inspiration. If too eavy oi is, i am a into one or other of the primary divisions of the trachea, and, as Aston y