482 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. upwax’ds aucl outwards under and against the acromion, oxving evidently to the deltoid and coraco-brachialis muscles not being counterbalanced in their actions by those that hax'e been separated from the head of the bone. Compound Dislocation of the Head of the Humerus is a rare accident. I have, however, seen two cases of it, and in two directions : dounwards— Siiifflenoid, and inwards—Sulcoracoid. In both cases reduction was effected, and the patients did well. In it, even though the injm-y be extensive, it is better not to amputate if the axiUaiy vessels and nerves be uniujm’ed. The limb may be saved by reducing the bone at once ; after this the Avound should then be closed and dressed lightly, and kept cool by constant irrigation. If the axillary artery be ruptimed, either completely or through its inner and middle coats, obstruction to the arterial circulation of the arm will ensue, and amputation must be perfonned through the articulation. Complications.—A SimfU Dislocation of the Head of the Humerus, with Rupture of the Axillany Artery and the formation of a diffused axillary aneiu'ism, is serious but fortunately rare. In a case of this kind, E. Adams, after reducing the dislocation, hgatimed the subclavian artery, the patient recovering : and this would be the proper practice to pursue in similar cases. A A'ery serious accident, and apparently difftcult to treat, consists in the complication of a Dislocation of the Humerus ivilh Fracture through the Epi- physis of the displaced bone. A case of this kind, to which I Avas called, is described at page 408. When the dislocation is complicated Avith a Fracture of the Shaft of the Bone, it should be reduced at once by putting the fractime up very finnly, and then attempting the reduction by one of the usual methods. In the cases to Avhich I have ah-eady referred (p. 468), I succeeded AAuthout difficidty by means of the heel hi the axilla. The fracture must then be treated by lateral splints. Congenital Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint have of late years attracted attention. R. W. Smith has ascertained, by post mortem examination, the existence of two varieties of this condition—the Subcoracoid and Subacromial luxations. In these there is wasting of the muscles of the shoulder and arm, the motions of Avhich are extremely limited, Avhilst those of the scapula ai-e preternatiu-ally great. The condition of the bones is also remarkable. In a case of congenital subacromial luxation of both shordders, there was no trace of a o-lenoid cavity; but a well-formed socket existed on the outer side of the neck of the scapula, receiving the head of the humerus, which was small and distorted. These dislocations, though existing fr-om_ birth, _ usuaUy become more marked as age advances, but are necessarily irremediable, ^ in consequence of the malformation of the osseous structures and the wasting of the muscles. , Old Unreduced Dislocations of the Head of the Humerus are not i n- frequently met with. In the majority of these cases there is a consideiable amount of pain and immobihty about the shoulder at first; but after a time the head of the humerus forms a new bed for itself, ai^ the movements of tlie arm become freer and less painful, so that eventually a hmb useful foi all except the OAm’head movements will result. In cases of old dislocation of the head of the humerus, the question as