TUMOURS. 798 quont transitory disturbance of the nutritive ciiangcs in the part, while in anotlier the same injury is followed by cancer. We know that an exudation- coi-pusclc or a pus-cell is the result of strictly local action ; and we know also that all persons arc liable to the formation of these under favom-ablc conditions. It is true that we are ignorant of the manner in which a cancer-germ can bo liroduced by the local action of the part in which it is generated, Imt we are as little acquainted with the essential mode of production of the exudation-cell or pus-coi-puscle, which we know to be the result of strictly local action ; 'and it seems to me that the difficulty is in no way solved, but simply pushed back a step,^ by the attempt to prove that, in all cases of cancer-formation, a special condition of the blood must exist, which inipresses the cancerous character upon local actions taking place in the system. We only know that it is not every one who is liable to the formation of cancer ; and hence it is not very easy to miderstand how it should arise, unless there were some tendency to its formation some condition of the body or of the part favouring the produc- tion of those forms of gi'owth which constitute the disease. This condition may be one of such low intensity that, as far as regards the practical question of the result of removal of the tumour’, Ave may regard the disease occumng in the circumstances here considered as strictly local in its early stages, and may expect that the removal of the local disease will be followed by a more or less prolonged interval during which the patient shall remain in good health, until perhaps the disposition to the formation of cancer shall have gained sufficient intensity to again manifest itself, either sjmntaneously or as the result of some fresh form of irritation. Secondary Deposits of Cancer.-^A cancer never remains stationary. It may progress slowly or multiply rapidly. But whether its progress be slow or rapid, it is constant. The primary cancer has a tendency to multiplication, as AveU as to vegetative development of the original tumour. This multiplication of the primary growth constitutes the secondary deposits. These may take place in three ways or rather situations. 1. In the lymphatics and glands leading fr’om the primary growth. The secondai’y deposits so formed are due imdoubtedly to direct absoiiDtion of cancer-ceUs or cancer-juice, and their deposit in the neighbouring lymjAh- atics. 2. Primary cancer may multiply itself locally by the formation of more or less numerous deposits in the neighbouring cellular tissue, each being a separate nucleus or centre of new cancer-groAvth. This mode of secondary deposit may possibly be due to the cancer-cells being capable, like the white blood-corpuscles, of amoeboid movements, and thus travelling into neighbouring connective tissue spaces by their oum poAver, there to form new centres of disease. 3. The secondary deposit may occur in internal organs. The viscera Avhich are most liable to become the seat of secondary deposits are, first, the liA’er, and next the lungs. The cause of these deposits is some- Avhat obscure. Paget is of opinion that in some cases, AAffiere a rapid multipli- cation of cancers takes place, this may arise from an increase in the cancerous diathesis or morbid condition of the blood. But he believes that in most of