VENEREAL DIBEARER. 866 sudden supervention of oedema glottidis. Tlie ConsUlHiioma Trealment must depend upon the concomitant symptoms and tlie general state of the patient; most commonly tonics will be rccpiircd. The Local Aleans consist in the free application of the solution of the nitrate of silver to the i-ima glottidis, and the occasional employment of counter-iiTitation. In syphilitic ulceration occuiTing’ about the sides or base of the epiglottis, care must be taken in the application of the stronger escharotics, such as iritric acid or the acid nitrate of mercury ; as a small quantity of these, if inhaled into the larynx, might produce serious difficulty in breathing, or even fatal asphyxia. In many cases it may become necessary to open the windpipe, in order to prevent death from asphyxia ; this must be done in accordance with the rules that will be laid dowi Avhen treating: of Chi’onic Laryngitis. The Nose is commonly affected in constitutional syiffiilis, and often destruc- tively so, especially in individuals much exposed to changes of temperature, and who are imable to pay proper attention to their treatment. The mucous membrane becomes chronically thickened, with discharge of blood and pus, coryza, and habitual snuffiing. In other cases ulceration takes place, with a very fetid odour of the breath, and the formation of thick ecthymatous crusts on the septum, or between this and the alee. This ulceration is very persistent and troublesome, and requires usually a mercurial treatment with the local application of strong nitric acid, or of the acid nitrate of mercury, to arrest its progress. In many cases ulceration will rapidly proceed to destruction and perforation of the septum, or necrosis of the spongy bones, the vomer, and ethmoid ; sometimes excavating the whole of the interior of the nose, scooping and cleaning it out into one vast chasm. When this happens, the nasal bones also are usually flattened, broken down, and destroyed ; the alte and columna ulcerating away, and producing vast disfigurement. Occasionally the disease extends to the bones of the base of the skull, and in this way may occasion impairment of vision, epilepsy, or death. The Trealment of these nasal affec- tions must be conducted in accordance with general principles. In many cases mercurial fumigation is extremely useful; in others, where the disease is ulcerative, the strong acid and caustic applications already mentioned, vdth chlorinated solutions occasionally sniffed up, will do much to stop its progress. As necrosis occius, the dead bone must be removed. 4. Syphilitic Iritis usually occurs after exposure to cold, and often in people who are otherwise strong and healthy. The ordinaiy symptoms of iritis, somewhat modified, characterise the affection. The patient complains of dim- ness of sight, pain in the eye, and often of very severe circumorbital or hemi- cranial pains.- On examining the eye, the conjunctiva will be found to be slightly injected, and a zone of pink vessels to be seated on the sclerotic, close to'^tbe cornea ; the aqueous humom’ has lost its transparency, giving a muddy look to the eye, and the coloiu of the iris is altered. The pupil is diminished in size and irregular in shape, usually angular towards the nasal side, and small yellowish or brownish nodules of lymph may be seen to be deposited on the siuface of the iris. If the case be left to itself, or be improperly treated it will advance to disorganisation of the globe, and to permanent loss of sight. The retina often becomes affected, and incurable blindness results. The Trealment consists in local depletion by means of cupping and leeches