820 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. CHAPTER XXXV. —i— SCEOFULA AND TUBERCLE. These two diseases are intimately connected Avitli certain morbid states of tbe lymphatic system, and have by many writers been considered merely as different expressions of the same constitutional state ; they may, however, Avith greater propriety, be viewed as the results of a departm'e in different dmections from the normal nutrition of the same system of elementary tissues. The two conditions are undoubtedly closely related in their causes and their effects, and may even co-exist in the same individual; still, in their most typical forms they present very marked differences, which serve to distinguish them clinically as well as pathologically. Scrofula.—By this term is meant a peculiar constitutional condition, either hereditary or acquired, that gives rise to chronic inflammatory changes in certain tissues or organs, often accompanied by more or less swelhng of the proximate lymphatic glands. The affections to which an in- dividual so constituted is most subject, are catarrhal inflammations of the skin and mucous membranes, and subacute inflammations of the periosteal and synovial structures. The products of these inflammatory changes often undergo degeneration and obsolescence, giving rise to cheesy masses, which are not imfr-equently confounded with those derived from true tubercle. The constitutional condition that tends to this is sufficiently characteristic ; but, although we may recognise its existence, and speak of the individual possess- ing such a constitution as having a scrofrflous tendency or diathesis, he can scarcely be considered to labour imder the frflly formed disease mfless some of the above-mentioned changes have taken place in some of his tissues or organs. _ . . Scrofulous Diathesis.—This is a peculiar constitutional state that is often erroneously confounded Avith general debflity. It may, and often does, co-exist Avith this, but is by no means synonymous Avith weakness of con- stitution. Debility often exists Avithout any scrofulous tendency or taint, more particularly in individuals of the nervous temperament; many dehcate people, though weak, being perfectly healthy, and shoAving no disposflion to this peculiar affection; on the contrary, the scrofulous constitution is often conjoined Avith much muscular poAver and mental activity. Biit though no Aveakness may be manifested in either of these respects, scrofrila is invariably conjoined with debility or perversion of the iiutritiA-e activity of the boj'. This is especially manifested in certain tissues, such_ as the mucoiis and tiic cutaneous ; and in those organs, the vitality of Avhich is low, as t e ymp la ic glands, the bones, and the joints. In these, scrofrila is espcciaUy apt to