704 ERYSIPELAS. extremely painful, hard, reel, and s-wollen ; it then suppiu’ates to a limited extent, with some sloughing of the areolar tissue. In many cases the ungual phalanx, which is embedded in the cellulo-fibrous pulp, necroses. There is usually some inflammation of the lymphatics of the arm ; and not unfi-ecpiently ti good deal of constitutional fever and irritation is present. In the more severe cases of whitlow, the inflammation, which is of an excessi-s'ely painful character, owing probably to the tension of the parts, extends to the sheaths of the tendons, and then constitutes an affection that is fraught ■with danger to the utility of the finger or hand. The whole finger swells considerably, becomes red and tense, Avith much throbbing and shooting pain ; the infiammation rapidly extends to the back of the hand, which becomes puffy, red, and swollen, presenting the ordinary characters of erysipelas. Although the palm be greatly swollen, it usually preserves its natmul colour, or becomes dull white, owing to the gveater thickness of its cuticle. Pus rapidly forms, both in the finger and hand, and, finding its Avay into the sheaths of the tendons, spreads up the forearm imder the annular ligament. There is usually no fluctuation to be felt in the finger, even though pus may have formed, but in other parts of the hand it may readily be detected in the -usual way. In these cases there is always much sloughing conjoined with the suppuration ; the areolar tissue of the finger and hand, the tendons of their sheaths, and the palmar fascia being all more or less implicated. In some cases the end of the finger, as far as the fii’st phalangeal joint or the middle of the second phalanx, falls into a state of gangrene and has to be separated. In many cases the joints of the fingers are destroyed, and the phalanges necrose ; or, if this do not happen, the tissues of the part may be so matted together, as the result of sloughing and suppuration, that rigid and contracted fino'ers or a stiff and comparatively useless hand, may be permanently left, mitlow affecting the little finger or thumb is much more likely to cause ■suppiuation in the common sheath of the flexor tendons than when it occurs in W of the other fingers. This is due to the fact that the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons of the thumb and little finger commmucate with the common sheath, while those of the thi-ee other fingers do not. In the Treatment, the patient should be well piuged, and kept upon a stiictly antiphlogistic regimen diuing the early stages. At the same time the inflamed fino-er should be freely leeched, and then alternately poulticed and soaked in veiw hot water, for twenty-four or forty-eight hoius, being _ kept whole of this time in an elevated position. In this way the inflammation y be sometimes cut short at its onset; should it, however, continue to increase the W- becoming hard, AAdih much throbbing, a free longitudinal incision must afonfe be nmde alo^g each side of it, so as to relieve tension and lue- vent slouching ; this procedure should never be omitted, on account of the of the preservation of the full utility of the part. Local aneesthesia of ^the fino-er may be produced by the ether-spray. The incision is best made tm the m xZr the dital end of the finger, so that .f the patieiff outtin? ivill be faeffitated rather than prevented. In .1“ d owned' the sheaths of the tendons should, if possible be avo.d d ; *cy te the tendons will probably slongh, and the ft.ger he left in a pelinanent y