23 ETHER AND CHLOROFORAL In death from Cardiac Sijncojic, the patient, after a few inspirations, sud- denly becomes pale and faint ; the pulse beats in a flickering manner a tew times and then ceases, though respiration may continue : the fatal event being evidently duo to pai-alysis of the heart. This is an accident that may occui’ to individuals who ai-e depressed either by mental emotion or by physical debility before taking the chloroform; and it is not mifrequeiitly connected with, a fatty heart. It is best guarded against by giving the patient a little stimulant, as brandy or ammonia, before commencing the inhalation. Lister’s rules for the administration of chloroform are, to watch the respira- tion in preference to the pulse ; to cease administration at once when the peculiar laryngeal stertor is produced ; and if this pass on to complete obstiuc- tion of respiration, to pull the tongue forcibly forwards so as to cause retraction of the arytamoid cartilages by reflex action, and not merely to bring the tip just in front of the teeth as is usually done, under the impression that the obstruction is due to the faUiiig back of the tongue. The Administration of Ether is effected by the application over the mouth and nostrils of a hollow sponge saturated with the best washed sulphinic ethei. This mode is preferable to the use of any of the complicated inhalers ; inas- much as, by the admixtiu'e in the sponge of a sufiicient quantity of atmospheric ah* ivith the ethereal vapoin*, all danger of asphyxia is avoided. To prevent the pungent effects of ether on the cutaneous siu’face, Warren has pro- posed the anointing of the face ivith some protective imguent. The first effects of the inhalation are resistance on the part of the patient, and some slight irritation of the air-passages ; the pulse is increased in rapidity, rising to a himdred or more; the face becomes flushed, and the movements and speech of the patient excited. This stage of excitement soon passes, and fifll etherisation is then effected ; the pulse falls to sixty or se's’eiity, the countenance becomes pale, insensibility to pain is produced, and the whole muscular system is relaxed. The indications of this state are the dropping of the upper eyelid, and the inability of the patient to sustain liis arm when raised. This is the period most favourable to the performance of operations, and especially for the reduction of dislocations and of fractiu’es attended nith shortening of the limb. The time required for the induction of the antesthetic state Anries; averaging, perhaps, about five minutes, a longer period than is required in the administration of chloroform, and it is attended Avith more excitement. The same precautions that ha\'e been described as being necessary'' dm-ing the administration of chlorofonn, must be attended to AA'hen ether is given. The direct and immediate effects of ether appear to be exercised more on the nervous and respiratory systems and less on tlie heart than of those of chloroform. There are often much dehrimn, bronchial irritation, and laryngeal spasm during its administration; and the bronchial irritation may dcA’clope into a serious and persistent after-effect. But ether does not appear to act, as chloroform undoubtedly sometimes does, as a direct sedatiA'e to the heart’s action. Comparison betAveen Ether and Chloroform.—The history of Anaesthetics fiu*nishes an additional illustration of the mutability of professional opinion. Ether Avas almost the only anassthetic used for tlie first year after the discoA'ery