SPISGIAL FllAGTUltES. 414 backwards with the fore-arm by the action of the triceps muscle. The detached ft-ao'ment may readily be replaced ; but, as soon as it is left to itself, it aj^ain slips out of Its position. As this happens without crepitus, owing to^^the tractm^ being between cartilagnnous surfaees, the injmy is apt to be mistaken for dislocation ot the fore-arm backwards. Transverse Fracture of the Lower End of the Humerus, just above the condyles, occasionally occurs in adults. The displacement backwards of the fore-arm and lower fragment, the pain, and crepitirs, indicate the nature of the accident. Fracture of either Condyle of the Humerus may arise from blows and falls on the elbou'. There is considerable pain about the seat of the injury, but usually not much displacement; unless, as in Fig. 160, there be a transverse fr'acture of both condyles, constituting what may be termed the T-shaped Fig. 160.—T-sliaped Practuru oC Lower Epiphysis of Humerus. Fig. 101.—Angular Splint applied to inside of iVrm. fracture of the lower epiphysis of the humerus. Crepitus, however, may readily be felt by rotating the radius, if it be the external condyle that is injined; or by flexing and pronating the fore-arm, if it be the internal condyle that has been detached. The Treatment of all these injuries must be conducted on very similar prin- ciples. The swelling and inflammatory action, which rapidly supervene, usually require local antiphlogistic treatment, and the application of cold lotions, or of irrigation; the arm being flexed, and supported in an easy position on a proper sphnt. After the subsidence of the swelhng, the fr-actured bone, what- ever be the precise nature of the injmy, is best maintained in position by being- put in an angular sphnt applied to the inner side of the limb (Fig. 161); the fore-arm being kept in the mid-state between pronation and supination, and well supported in a sling. It is in these particular fractmes that passive motion should behadrecomse to early, a tendency to rigidity of the joint being other- wise often left. The motion should be begun in adults at the expiration of a month or five weeks ; in children, at the end of three neeks aftei the oecurrence of the accident. Union usually takes place readily. I have, ho^v- cver, seen one instance of an imunited fr’acture of the external condyle of the humerus in a boy about ten years old. Injury of Nerves in Fracture of the Humerus.—In simple fracture ot