915 INFLAMMATION OF LYMPIIATIG GLANDS. If abscesses form, these should be opened early, and treated on ordinary principles. INFLAMMATION OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Inflammation of the Lymphatic Glands, or Adenitis, may occur from the extension of inflammation along the course of the lymphatics; from the irritation induced by acrid or poisonous substances conveyed along these vessels, and not inflaming them, but inducing diseased action in the glands through which they arc carried ; or as a consequence of strains resulting fi’om ovei-exertion, as is often seen in the glands of the groin ft’om walking too much. In whatever way occurring, inflammation of the absorbent glands is always attended by a stasis of the lymph, with coagulation of it; and, if the whole or greater part of the glands of a limb be affected, the course of the fluid through the absorbent vessels may be so seriously interfered with, that oedema, often of a sohd character, occius in the lower parts from which the lymph ought to have been conveyed. Varieties.—Adenitis may be acute, subacute, or chronic. In Acute Adenitis, which almost invariably occurs as a consequence of angeioleucitis, there are pain, swelling, tenderness, and stifihess about the affected glands, with a dull, heavy sensation in them, followed by all the signs of acute abscess, the glands gi’aduaUy softening in the centre, and the suppurative inflammation extending to the contiguous areolar membrane, through which it becomes somewhat difiused. In Subacute Adenitis, which is a common result of injuries or strains, the glands become swollen, enlarged, and tender, and are matted together by the inflammatory and plastic consolidation of the neigh- bmmng tissues. If abscess form, it commonly commences in the structures m’oimd the glands ; and these are perhaps eventually exposed at the bottom of the cavity that results. This is especiaUy apt to happen in cachectic and stnimous persons from shght somnes of irritation. Very commonly, in such subjects, the inflammation of the glands runs into a Chronic state ; which, indeed, may at last terminate in their pennanent enlargement and indiuation' or in tuberculous degeneration. When the glands become chronicaUy inflamed from the &st, they are enlarged and hardened, with tenderness and pain about tnem after a tune suppuration takes place within them ; or perhaps it may occiu in the areolar tissue around them, which, breaking down, leaves them in e fonn of reddish-grey or fleshy masses, that protrude in the midst of the suppurating cavity : as the inflammation subsides, the skin becomes of a re IS - lie or purple hue, is thinned, and fii-mly incorporated with the sub- jacent tissues. of Gla.ncU.-The glaitls not micommonlr diseo^e or simply as the result of strumous e “arced of St™™ pemanently Lto mheShf “ .‘O'- mooas or years, may slowly break dotm 1 suppuration, leaving the skin thin, blue, and undimiued with nSu “““ m-eonditi’oned. .ui ciu firoDaoiiity^ the peculiar enlargement and tendeurv fn nni-mnuu ration arise from the d^t of «ous matter Tel' changes pr.no,pally occur in the neck, especially in the su^y ^^lids 3 N 2