SCPFURATJOy and ABBCES^. J54 Fig. 78. Forked Prolje I’or introdue- ing Dmlniige- •■tube. Drainage - tube and Forked Probe. Ihe Dramage-tulje tvas introduced into sm-o-ical practice by Clmssaignac. . greatest value lu keeping the cavities of abscesses, and, indeed, the niterior of wounds generally, free from those fluid accumulations which, being in contact with the air, arc apt to undergo decomposition, and thus become the -soiuce alike ot local irritation and of constitutional infection. The diainage-tube is especially useful in the treatment of chronic abscesses, i his instrument is used in the follmving way. The abscess hanng been punc- •tm-ed, a small India-rubber tube, one-sixth of an inch in diameter, having several side holes punched in it, is passed into the ca'sdty, one end being allowed to hang out for the pus to di'ain away. These tubes may very con- veniently be introduced by being fixed on to the end of a forked probe (Figs. 78, 79), by which the tube is carried into the abscess and left there on the withdi'awal of the probe. Another plan con- sists in passing the perforated India-rubber tube comjDletely across the abscess, draMnng it out through a counter-opening, and tying the two ends together. By this contrivance the pus is carried off by the side of rather than through the tube as cpiickly as it is secreted, the walls of the abscess collapse, and, as gradual closiwe takes place, the tube may be withdrawn. In some cases the drainage-tubes haA'e appeared to me to act in another Avay than by merely remoA'ing the purulent secretion ; A'iz., by irritating the wall of the abscess just as a sc ton would, and thus setting up increased activity, and materially aug- menting the discharge. On their Avithch’aAA^al, however, this stimulation has been found to be beneficial, causing a speedier closure of the suppiuating cyst. The antiseptic treatment has been successfully applied of late years by Lister, of Edinbiu’gh, to the treatment of both acute and chi’onic abscesses. By its means all the advantages of a free opening, giving ready exit to the discharges, <can be obtained Avithout the dangerous consequences AAdiich often foUoAV the modes of treatment AAfrich have just been described. The practice is foimded upon the folloAAung principles :—1. The formation of pus, whether on the surface of a granulating sore or in the caAuty of an abscess, is due to the presence of some abnormal irritation of the tissues.—2. In the vast majority •of cases, the primary cause of the formation of an abscess is of a temporary character, its exact nature often being uncertain; in other cases a distinct cause may be readily found, as an injmy in an imhealthy subject, or the presence of an irritating foreign body.—3. The primary cause of the formation of an abscess being removed or haA'ing disappeared, the inltation caused by the tension of the parts in consequence of the accumulation of fluid is sufficient to cause the continuance of the process of siqApuration, and the pointing of the abscess.—4. If the cause of iiritation be removed and no other siqDplicd in its place, and if no other caiise that Avill still be present have co- existed Avith it, all suppuration Avill cease on the relief of tension by opening the abscess, the only discharge being of a serous nature, coming from the surface of the granulations lining the cavity of the abscess. If this discharge be pent up in