7 DIET AFTER OFEEATIOF. Perhaps the most serious constitutional affections, and these that more than any others militate against the success of an operation, are diseased Kidneiis, Avith albuminuria and diabetes; in these conditions, the local inflam- matory action that is set up is apt to run into a Ioav, diffuse, and sloughing form, and this is especially the case in all operations about the pelvic and genito-urinary organs. The contamination of the patient’s system by Malignant Disease must always prevent our operating, as a speedy return of the affection mil most certainly take place. And, lastly, no operation, save of the most urgent neces- sity, in cases that tall within the category of one of the four classes of prmiary surgical lu-gency, and tlms intended to rescue the patient from impending death, should eA-e'i- be performed whilst he is labouring under Pya3mia, Septiemmia, Erysipelas, Phlebitis, or any Diffuse Inflammation ; and even during the epidemie jireA’alence of these affections, operations that are not of immediate necessity should be postponed until a more favourable season. Operations in A'eiy old people, if severe and attended by much shock to the system, are commonly fatal; amputations in individuals above the age of seventy, are very rai’ely successful. 2. The Hygienic Conditions to which a patient is exposed both before and after an operation, will most materially influence its results. These conditions are of two kinds 1. As regards the diet of the patient, and 2. As concerns his exposure to a A'itiated atmosphere contaminated by the emanations from the sick and wounded, such as is commonly met with in the wards of an over- croAvded or ill-constructed hospital.* The proper regulation of the patient’s Diet before and after an operation is of gTeat consequence. On this point it is impossible to lay doAvn any very definite rule, as much depends not only on the patient’s preAious habits of life, but on the natiu’c of the operation itself; and, as this subject AAflU be discussed at the end of the Chapter, it need not detain us here. It is not, hoAvever, often that in ciAul practice the insufficient quantity or the bad quality of the patient’s food, AAith AA'hich he is supplied after the performance, influences materially the result of an operation. But in military and naval practice in time of war the case is far different. The soldier or the sailor on active serAuce is often exposed to serious injuries that necessitate the more important operations at a time Avhen his constitutional poAvers have already been broken doAAii by scuny, dysentery, or some other similar affection, resulting as much from the deficient quantity as from the uuAA’holesome character of the food AAuth Avhich alone he ban be supplied. And after the operation his only available nutriment may be of the coarsest character, possibly salted, and imperfectly cooked. In such circmnstaucos operation-Avounds do not heal, or they assmne a peculiar gangre- nous character ; or the patient sinks from ulceration of the intestinal mucous membrane. The mortality of operations becomes enormously increased ; and there can be little doubt that thousands of deaths AA’hich haA’e occiuTed in Avars betAveen the most ciA’ilised nations and the best appointed armies may be attributed to these causes. The Hygienic Conditions to Avhich the patient is subjected after an operation