441 FRACTURE OF THE PATELLiL rests on its anterior surface. Thus, although the limb may be apparently extended, the kiree-joint is in reality flexed If a liml) in put up on a long splint and extension made, the displacement would be mcieascc, ;:;7uL-uuion“onh. iraetm. would very likely result, or rf 7°" the utility of the limb would be most seriously impaired. By putting tue limb on a^doiible inclined plane in a flexed condition the deformity is at once removed, the fractm-ed ends of the bones coming into perfect apposition, i have had several cases of impacted fracture in this situation under my care. In one, the upper fragment, which ivas very oblique, was firmly driven into the cancellous stnicturc of the lower one (Fig. 187). In another case, the condyles of both thigh-bones were splintered into a number of fragments, amongst which the shafts were impacted. Excellent union, however, took place, the skin having been uninjured. In the case from which Figs. 188 and 189 were taken, the patient fell from a great height on the bent knees. ^ In one knee, the anterior cracial ligament had torn up a piece of the tibia, to which it was attached. lu the other, the posterior crucial ligament had torn out a piece of the femur, and the bone was fissured a long way up between the condyles. Fracture of the lower end of the thigh-bone, communicating with open wound of the knee-joint, is necessarily a case for amputation. Fracture of the Patella may be the result of direct violence, when the bone is often comminuted, or eveu broken longitudinally, being split, and the joint possibly injiu’ed. But most frequently it occurs as the consequence of the sudden and -violent action of the extensor muscles of the thigh, in the attempt a person makes to save himself from falling when he suddenly slips backwards. The knee being semi-flexed, the patella rests on it only in its trans- verse axis, and is readily snapped across, much in the same way as one breaks a stick across some resisting object. All fractm:es of the patella from muscular action are transverse (Fig. 190). The patient does not break his patella in these cases by faUing upon it, but he falls because the patella has been broken by the violent and almost spasmodic action of the extensors of the thigh in his efforts to save himself. ■ In consequence of these fractures being occasioned by muscular action, they are more frequent in men, especially about the middle period of life, less com- mon in women, and extremely rare in children. I liave once, however, had under my care a child under ten years of age, who had a transverse fractm-e of the patella. It not unfrequently happens when one patella has been fractiu-ed, that the im- steadiness of gait causes the opposite one to be broken by muscular action in an effort to save a fall. The same patella may be broken more than once ; in the cases that I have seen, the second fracture has always occurred in the upper fragment, a little above the line of the original fractm-e. The Signs of this fracture arc very evident. 'When it is transverse, and has been produced by muscular action, the fibrous expansion over the bone is torn ; Fig. 190.—Diagram of position of fragments in Fracture of Patella. Eversion of Upper Fragment.