SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 88o hfiicl, dry, and scaly ; at other times they arc soft and spongy, Avlien situated in places where the secretions ot the skin accuinnlate, and keep them moist. Under old and very thickened corns, it is stated by Ilrodie that a small bursa is occasioirally found ; this bursa may suppurate, and become very painful. Corns arc at all times sufficiently painlnl, but become especially so if inflam- mation or suppuration take place beneath them ; the accumulation of a small drop of pus under the thickened cuticle, which prevents its escape, giving rise to very intense agony. There is a special form of warty corn that I have seen only in the sole of the foot, and which may become the source of the greatest possible pain and inconvenience to the patient, preventing his walking, and in fact completely crippling him. This corn is usually of small size and round in shape, the neighboiming cuticle being always greatly thickened and hardened. It is extremely sensitive to the touch, the patient shrinking when it is pressed upon, as if an exposed ller^n had been injured. On slicing it down wth a scalpel, it wiU be found to be composed of soft, tough, and white epidermis, aiTanged in tufts or small columns, in the centre of each of which a minute black dot is perceptible. Each tuft appears to be an elongated and thickened papilla, and the black speck is a small point of coagulated blood which has been effused into it. Aimmd the depression in which each of these corns is seated, the hardened cuticle forms a kind of wall. The Treatment of ordinary corns consists in shaving or rasping them down so as to prevent the deep layers of cuticle, retained by the indmated superficial ones, from giving rise to pain by pressure on the papiUm of the cutis. Eehef may also be afforded by removing all pressure from bearing upon the corn, by attention to the shape of the shoe, and by wearing a piece of soft leather or of amadou, having a hole cut in the centre into which the corn projects. It is well to avoid the application of caustics to ordinary corns; injm'ious con- sequences being often produced by these agents, especially in elderly people, in whom fatal gangrenous inflammation, as I have seen in one case, may be excited by their action. If the corn suppurate, it must be poulticed and shaved down, and the drop of pus let out by punctiu'e with a lancet. The painful papillated com of the sole of the foot is the only form of corn in which an escharotic can be safely used. I have found the appheation of potassa fusa, so as to destroy it thoroughly, to be the best and the speediest remedy; and, as this corn always ocems in young people, no danger attends its use. Perforating Ulcer of the Foot consists in a sinus that traverses the foot between the metatarsal bones. It is unconnected with any disease of the osseous or articular structmes, and ocems in otherwise perfectly healthy persons. The mechanism of the disease appears to be as follows. A hard corn forms on the sole ; suppuration takes place under this ; the pus is imable to escape through the indurated cuticle, and consequently travels upwards and finds an exit on the dorsiun of the foot, through an ulcerated opening there. On passing a probe through this opening, it will impinge on the corn in the sole, in which perhaps there may be found a small perforation, allowing an imperfect discharge of pus The Treatment consists in stimulating the interior of the sinus, and m I providing an aperture in the sole of the foot for the escape of the pus. This is ' done by passing a seton of two silk threads through the sinus. i I