578 INJURIES OF TILE SPINE. jccfcivc symptoms depend, may be at first confined to some central portion of tlic optic nervons apparatus, and no ophtbalmoscopic evidence of implication of tlic retina or optic disc may present itself till a more ad\'anced stage of the case. Sooner or later, bowever, wliether as the result of primary changes in the fundns, or more slowly from the effect of a slowly progressive infiaumia- tory affection propagated from the intracranial portion of the nervons appa- ratus towards its periphery, and thus inducing morbid changes in the optic aierve and its disc, Ave find that the ophthalmoscope reveals changes in the fundus of the eye. “ The disc,” says Wharton Jones, “is seen to be Avhitish and somewhat congested; the retinal veins are large, though the fundus usually presents an anmmic aspect, Avith perhaps some pigmentous degenera- tion of the retina round the disc.” One or other of these conditions occurs in the majority of cases of spinal injury. Allbutt says, “ It is tolerably certain that disturbance of the optic disc and its neighbom-hood is seen to folloAV disturbance of the spine, Avith sufficient frequency and uniformity to establish the probability of a causal relation between the two events.” He goes on to say that in 13 cases of chronic spinal disease folloAving accident, he found 8 cases of sympathetic disorder of the eye. My experience fully accords Avith that of Allbutt. I find that of GO cases of obscure spinal injiuy, Avithout fractiue or dislocation, that I have consecutively examined, there was impairment of Ausion in 42 instances. Allbutt makes the interesting remark, Avhich will be supported by the experience of all Surgeons, that, in the severer forms of spinal injury, those that prove fatal in a few weeks, evidences of eye-disease are not met A\dth. Of 17 such cases he found no evidence of eye-disease in any one instance. This obseiwation affords a most complete answer to an objection that has often been lu’o-ed, that as sympathetic affection of the eye is rarely met udth in severe injuries of the spine, such as fractiues and displacement of the vertebra; Avith traumatic lesion of the cord, its occurrence in the less immediately severe and more obsciue forms of injury can scarcely be looked upon as the direct result of the spinal mischief. It would appear, however, from the observations ot AUbutt, Avhich I can entirely confirm, that it is in these very cases that it is met AAuth. , . ■ n XI,., That a certain portion of the spinal cord exercises a direct mfiuence on the eyes, has been incontestably established by the experiments of modern physio- loo-ists. Budge and Waller, in 1851, demonstrated that the filaments of the sympathetic that supply the eye take their origin ft-om that part of the spii^ cOTd^ which is contiguous to the origin of the first pair of dorsal iicives an that the portion of the spinal axis Avhich extends fi-om the fifth sixth dorsal vertebra, and, accorchng to Brown-Sequard, as dorsal, possesses a distinct influence on the organs of vision physiologists it has been termed the “ ciho-spmal,” and by C lai de^cinaid t o “ ociilo-spinal ” axis. It has been determined as the result ot niimaoi experiments, that the partial clmsion of this eilio-spinal axis exeveises OTious disturbing inteiioes on the sixe of the pupils on the Tasenlai;|s,to coniunetila, and probably of the deeper oenlar tissues, and ^ ^ “ Jilood-vesseU of fbe ear, exactly similar to those that ore occasioned b) the