TREATMENT OF FRACTURED PATELLA. 445 The foot and leg having been previously bandaged as far as the lower edp of the patella,'and the splint padded so as to leave the slit uncovered, the strapping is heated by naeans of a bottle of hot-water (which is more con- Tenient than a strapping-tin), and while an assistant ebaws down the upper fra‘^ment by grasping the muscles of the thigh, the straps of plaster are carried fii-mly round the limb from above downwards, extending from just below the o-luteal fold to wdthin three inches of the upper border of the patella. It being important that the band of calico should be kept in the middle line behind, the upper part of the thigh is then seemed to the splint by a few Fig. 194.—Manning’s Splint for Fractured Patella. turns of a roUer. Lastly, as many elastic rings (those known as “ office-bands ” answer the piu’pose very well) as will serve to approximate the fragments with- out causing too much pain to the patient, are passed over the projecting ends Fig. 195.—Manning’s Splint applied. of the pieces of wood, as at f. Fig. 195, on each side of the sphnt, so as to exercise sufficient traction on the muscles pulling on the upper fragment. Stiffliess of the knee often remains to a very inconvenient degi’ee after the treatment of a fractured patella. It is usually remedied by friction and manipulation. But should it not yield to these minor means, an apparatus consisting of a thigh-and-leg piece of stiif leather, united by angularly hinged lateral iron rods, and having an India-rubber “ accumulator ” adapted behind, should be worn. The continued traction of the “ accumulator ” will gradually flex the knee. But, as the knee becomes bent, the close union that may have appeared to exist between the fragments gradually yields, and they gape more or less widely, much to the disappointment often of both Siu'geon and patient, the ligamentous band stretching like a piece of vulcanised India- rubber. This cannot be helped. There is the alternative between a straight and stiff knee with close union, or a flexible and mobile one with gaping of "the