ARliEST OF ARTERIAL lUEMORRUAQE. 288 artery lias to be tied in an open wound, or as, 2, the vessel has to be secured in its continuity. 1. When the divided vessel in an open ivound has to be tied, as after an amputation, the mouth of the artery must be seized and drawn forwards (Fig. 112). For this piu'pose a tenaculum, or sharp hook, is frequently used, and in many cases answers the purpose exceedingly well. There are, however’, some objections to this instrument; thus, it occasionally seizes other tissues with the artery, and, as it draws the vessel forwards by perforating its coats, it has happerred that, air accidental punc- tiu’e haA'diig been made by it behind the part to which the ligature is applied, rrlceration of the vessel and subsequent fatal heemorr’hage have ensued, as I have seen in one case. The most convenient instrirmeirt for the pm-pose of drawing forward the artery, aird one to which iro objection whatever apphes, is Liston’s “ bull- dog” forceps. These have been conveniently modified by having the blades exparrded just above the points (Fig. 113), so that the ligatm’e can be shpped over the end of an arter’y that is deeply seated, as between bones or close to the interosseous membrane of the leg—a situation in which it is sometimes troublesome to tie a vessel by any other means. In some cases the bleeding point may be so situated, that the ligature is most conveniently passed under and round it by means of an ordinary ciuved needle. The kind of ligature used must vary according to the size of the vessel. If this be small, fine rorurd twine ; if large, dentist’s silk, or compressed smooth whip- cord, should be employed. Fig. 113—Liston’s “BuU-clog” Forceps, Biodified. latter should alwayS be used in ligaturing the main artery of a limb. Before being used, the material should be well waxed, so that it may not be too limp ; its strength should be tested by knotting it with a jerk, and, if found efficient, it may be cut up for use in pieces eighteen inches in length. In applying the ligatiue, care must be taken that it be put well over the cut end of the artery that it clear the points of the for- ceps, and that it be tied tightly in a knot, which does not shp (Fig. 114). One end of the ligature should then be cut off about a quarter of an inch from the knot, and the other left hanging out of the wound. The ligature Fig. Ii4.-Tiie Ligature-Liwt. geciu’es the main artery should have both its ends knotted together, by way of a distinctive mark. It is better to leave