SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 98 tlie Surgeon amputates, he must be careful to cany the knife so as to cut clean and transversely, and not to split the femoral artery or vein. Amputation above the Knee, or Vermale’s Operation, is done ly lateral flaps. In perfoiming this operation, the outer flap should always be made first. The point of the knife, being entered in the middle of the thigh, about three inches above the upper border of the patella, is earned close round the bone and brought out through the centre of the ham; the flap is then cut downwards and outwards ; the knife, being entered again in the uj^per angle of the incision, is carried close round the bone to its inner side, and the inner flap made by a sweeping cut (Fig. 62). Unless the blade be kept in contact with the bone in this situation, the femoral artery is very apt to be split. The flaps being then retracted, the bone is cleai’ed by two sweeps of the knife, and sawn about foim inches above its articular sm’face. In the Middle or Upfer Third of the Thigh, the Antero-posterior Flap Operation is to be preferred. In ordinary cases, the anterior flap may fii-st be made, and the posterior one subsequently fashioned by transfixion (Fig. 63, see also Fig. 8, p. 38). If, however, the patient be very much emaciated, it is difiicidt to get a good cushion from the anterior part of the thigh in this way ; and it is consequently preferable to follow the plan recom- mended by Mr. Luke of making the posterior flap fli’st by transfixion, and the anterior one afterwards by cutting from ■without iiiw'ards (Fig. 64.) In some instances in which the tissues at the posterior part of the thigh are much diseased or injm-ed, whilst those on the anterior aspect of the limb are sound, a very good stump may be fa- shioned by making a long square an- terior flap by transfixion, and then cut- ting at one stroke of the knife through the soft parts at the posterior aspect of the limb, in a somewhat oblique direction from below iqiwards. The anterior flap, when laid down, 'will form the cushion at the end of the stiuup. If the patient be excessively muscular, the operation may be performed as foUows. The Siu-geon, standnig on the right side of the patient, enters the knife mid-way between the anterior and posterior siu-face of the thigh on the side opposite to himself, and marks out a rectangular flap, with the right angles rounded off, equal in length to two-thirds of the dumieter of the limb at the'point at which the bone is to be saivn. He next sweeps the knife roimd the back of the thigh, so as to mark out a lounded flap equal in length to half the anterior flap. The limb is now raised, and the posterior flap, consisting of skin and fat only, is dissected up to the ang e of the flaps. The anterior is now raised, only skin and fat being taken for the first inch or so, after which the Siu’geon takes as much muscle as he thiidvs Fig. 63.—Amputation of the Thigh ; Antero- posterior Flap Operation.