INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 268 Extravasation. When tlic blood is not poured out on the surfaee, but escapes from a wounded 's'essel into the areolar tissue of a part, the substance ol or[>‘ans, or internal cavities, it is termed an Extravusation. In these cases there arc not the ordinary local signs of an external htcmoiThage ; but other local phenomena, such as swelling, dulncss on percussion, displacement of organs or parts, discolouration of the skin and subjacent areolar tissue, indicate that blood is being poimed out subcutaneously ; and wo judge of the quantity of the blood that has escaped, not only by the extent of these local phenomena, but by the general effect produced upon the system by its loss. CoNSTiTUTioxAL EFFECTS OF HiEMORRHAGE.—These depend upon the quantity of blood lost, on the rapidity with which it is poured out, on the state of the patient’s constitution, and on the vessel which fiumishes the blood. When a large quantity of blood is suddenly lost, as when a main artery is cut across or an aneurism bursts, the patient may die forthwith ; he falls down in a state of syncope, with a pale cold surface, and Uvidity about the lips and eyes, and gasps a few times, sighs, is very restless, and suffers convulsive movements of the limbs before he expires. If the quantity lost be not so great as to produce death, but be yet very considerable, the patient becomes faint and sick, vdth coldness and pallor of the siu’face, gveat restlessness and agitation, thirst, noises in the ears, and failure or complete loss of sight. If the quantity lost, though considerable, be not so great as this, or be spread over a greater interval of time, so that the patient is enabled to rally between the recmrences of the htemoiThage, a state of anaemia wiU be induced, characterised by pallor of the skin and of the mucous membranes, palpitation of the heart, rushing noises in the head, amaiu’osis, a tendency to syncope when in the erect position, oedema of the extremities, and general debility of the system. After excessive loss of blood the patient may gradually rally, and, as the vital fluid is reproduced in his system, he may recover without any bad effects ; or he may fall into a state of anmmia, which may perhaps never be completely recovered from, and may be associated Awth various forms of local debility and disturbance of functions. After very abimdaiit loss of blood, “ htemoirhagic fever ” is apt to set in, characterised by a tendency to reaction in the system, with extreme irritability of the heart and arteries. It is irritative fever con- joined with anfemia. There is but a small quantity of blood in the system, and the heart and arteries make violent efforts to drive it foiwaixls. This condition is marked by the symptoms of extreme loss of blood, alteniatiug with periods of irrtermitterrt reactiorr ; the prrlse becomes much hruried, fluttering, jerking, and irregirlar in force and frequerrey; there are slight flrrsh- ings of the face and brilhancy of the eyes, rapidly passing again into pallor and syrreope ; and if the hmmorrhage eventually prove fatal, delirirmr and corrvrrl- sions, with excessive restlessness, usually precede death. The rallying power is greater irr the yoruig tharr irr the old, arrd greater irr womerr tharr in men. Irr advarreed life blood is slowly reproduced ; arrd a great loss of so complex a flrrid, whether by accident or in an operation, is seldom completely recovered from, and often leads to the development of dangcrorrs or even fatal secondary diseases of a lorv typo. As has already beerr stated at p.^ 11, it is in this rray that excessive loss of blood at air operation, as lor stoiro in an aged nran, often