S35 SITUATIONS OF CHANCRE. l)lack-lookin<? spot soon makes its appearance on one side of the organ ; this rapidly extends, giving rise to thick, black, soft, and pultaceons slongiis, de- stroying perhaps the whole of the prepuce, and exposing and implicating the glans to a great extent, accompanied sometimes by copious luemorrhage from the dorsal artery of the penis on the separation of the sloughs, and by denuda- tion of the corpora cavernosa. In other cases, the prepuce sloughs on one side only ; a round aperture forming in it, through which the glans projects, whilst the swollen and inflamed extremity of the prepuce hangs down behind it, giving the organ a very remarkable, and at first sight, somewhat puzzling iippearancc. After the separation of the sloughs, granulations rapidly spring up, the sore loses its specific character, and cicatrisation advances with rapidity. Situation.—As chancres almost invariably result from connection with pci-sons sulfering from sores of similar nature, they commonly occur on the genital organs. In the male they may be met with in any part of these ; theii characters vary somewhat, howei'cr, according to the situation in which they ocem. They are by far most commonly seated in the angle formed between the glans and the prepuce ; they then appear most frequently at the orifice or on the inner surface of the prepuce, next on the fi’amum, then on the glans, and lastly at the orifice of the urethra, or on the skin of the body of the penis. Those about the frmnum are often sloughy and irritable, have a great tendency to perforate or destroy this membrane, and are more frequently followed by haimorrhage or bubo than any of the other varieties of the disease. The Urethral Chancre is usually situated just within the orifice of the canal, and may be seen on pressing open its bps, in the form of a small sloughy sore, which occasionally creeps out upon the glans. Sometimes it is more deeply seated, so as to be out of sight; when this is the case, a thick, tenacious, sloughy and bloody discharge appears in small quantities from the methra ; at a little distance up the canal there will usually be felt, on grasping the organ between the fingers, a circumscribed indurated spot, which is somewhat painful on pressure and after micturition. The chancres have been foimd by Ricord to extend along the whole of the methra, even to the bladder ; and it is their presence in this canal that formerly led to the supposition of the identity of .syphilis and gonorrhoea, an ciTor which has been disproved by the test of inoculation ; the discharge from methral chancre producing the typical sore, that from gonorrhoea giving no result when introduced under the skin. The existence of chancre within the urethra may be suspected if the urethral dis- charge be small in quantity, and somewhat dark coloured, ichorous, aud sloughy in appearance. The chancre may be detected by everting the edges of the urethra, or, if situated too high up the canal to be seen, by being felt hard and nodulated through its coats. Chancres may also fonn on other parts where they have been accidentally m’ purposely inoculated. Thus I saw many years ago (1839) in Ricord’s Avards, a man, labouring under eczema of the legs, in Avhom the cutaneous disease had been converted into a scries of immense chancres by accidental inoculation I'rom a sore on the penis. ^ In women, chancres arc usually situated on the external organs of genera- tion, most usually just inside tbe iburchette or labia minora, very rarely indeed on the lining membrane of the Angina, but sometimes on the cervix or os uteri; a H 2