796 TUMOURS. enlargement being nsually superficial. Now this is clifibrent from what we see ni any local manifestations of constitutional disease. In syphilitic gnmmata or tuberculosis, we see nothing like it. Now to nliat is this increased vascnlarisation of the neighbouring tissues due.'' It must be to one of two causes—either to the local in-itation produced bv the tumour, or to the supply required for the sustenance of an organism having an acti^ie groAvth inherent in its nature. That the increased vascnlarisation cannot be due to mere local irritation of a heterologous or foreign mass embedded in the tissues, is probable fi-om the fact that the local irritation excited by the mere presence of such a tumour would be equally great in others, such as lipomata, enchondromata, exostoses, &c., in which it is certainly not observed. It must therefore be due to the second of these causes, viz., the demand made by an independent organism having an inherent active vitality, capable of self- support, yet drawing its nourishment fi-om the parts amongst which it lies embedded ; and certainly this active arterial supply, this great afflrrx of blood evidently required by the tumour for its nutrition and der-elopment, and sup- plied by an active hypertemia of the neighbouring parts, is scarcely compatible with the idea of carreer beirrg arr evidence of senile degeneracy of organs or their tissrres, brrt rather that it is arr active indeperrderrt organisrrr, full of the vigour of an independent existence, and requiring a free afflrrx of blood for its rrrrtritive growth arrd highly complicated development. It is, I think, viewed fi’onr this point, a strong additional argrrmerrt in favour of the primary local originatiorr of cancer. 2. The secorrd importarrt poirrt iir conrrectiorr with the structure of a can- cerous tumour is the absence of cm enveloinng cajesnh; unlike almost every other trmrour, it is not in any way encysted or errcapsuled. There is corise- qrrerrtly rro barrier betweerr it arrd the tissrres in which it is deposited; rrothiug to limit its extension into and its absorptiorr of and conversion irrto its own structrrre of the corrtigrrorrs tissrres. The very smallest scin’hous tumour—one irot larger than a pin’s head—that carr be picked out of the scattered tubercles that rvill sometimes dissemirrate themselves through the skin iir the rreighbourhood of a scirrhous mass, is as destitrrte of a capsrrle or of arry kind of limiting envelope arorrrrd it, or of barrier thrown orrt by the neighbouring tissrre, as is the largest carreer. So, doubtless, would be such a trmroru from the very first horrr of its formation, whilst yet irrvisible to the naked eye, arrd oirly a mirrute microscopical body implanted on the tissrres. Arrd yet, from the very first moment that a cancer exists as such, it must be presrrmed to consist of those three elemoirts that corrjointly errter irrto the formatiorr of all cancers, and that constitute, not singly, brrt by their combination, a cancer, viz., cell, stroma, arrd cancer- juice. What circrrmstances or corrjrmctiou of cirerrmstarrees can possibly far‘Our more highly the diffrrsiorr throughout the neighborrring tissues arrd of the whole system of a primary growth thus constitrrted, stimulated to rapid gror\ th by arr active arterial supply, tharr the want ot a capsrrle ? This absence of capsrde may lead to a much earlier contamination ot tissues arrd of constitutioir tharr is gcrrerally srrpposed. AVe know rvell, beoarrsc vc have evidence easy of verification, how early after its first formation a chaircre