843 SYFHILIS. u-ith potassa fusa ; the sore should then be dressed from the bottom, and treated on general principles. Sometimes sloughing action is "-'I' ^ open bilbo, and then extensive destruction of tissue may ensue, and m en lata ha^morrhage irom the femoral artery has been known to occur. It ^ sio-ns of syphilis concomitant with this local bubo, such as several indniated <dands, or rash upon the skin, it is as necessary to employ the conUnnons administration of mercury to cure the latter disease, as if the local afiection were not present. „ Venereal Warts.—Various forms of warts occur independently of any constitutional alfection, from simple continued in-itation of the ninco-cntaneons sm-tiices. They commonly occur on the prepuce or glans, and are especially apt to be situated in the angle between these parts ; they are of a bright-red colour, very vascular, and, if left without interference, may increase immensely in size and number, distending the prepuce, and giving a clubbed appearance to the penis ; there is always phimosis attending them, and the tension of the prepuce may be such, that ulceration occasionally takes place in it, giving lise to a protrusion of these gTOwths through an apertime in its side. These v arts are occasionally met with in the vagina, forming large, iiTegidar, cauliflower- looking masses. The Treatment consists in snipping and paring them off with scissors, and afterwards touching the parts from which they spring with nitrate of silver, to prevent their recmrence. In order to do this effectually, it is nccessaiy to lay open the prepuce in all those cases in which the glans cannot be freely exposed by chawing this back. II SYPHILIS, OR CONSTITUTIONAL VENEREAL DISEASE. Syphilis is a specific disease, transmissible (1) by the contact of its own specific pus with a tender or an abraded surface ; (2) by inoculation into the system through the medium of the secretions ; or (3) by hereditary taint under certain special conditions. It manifests itself not so much by the occurrence of any one special affection, as by producing a tendency to inflammation in various tissues and organs, and by impressing a peculiar form and comse on the inflammatory affections which it induces. With the true and intimate natme of syphilis we are at present entirely un- acquainted, and it would be useless to discuss those various hypotheses that refer it essentially to a specific cell, to a cryptogamic vegetation, or to a specific fever. We know this disease, like many others, by its effects only ; of its intimate nature ive are yet ignorant. These effects of a syphilitic inoculation are of two distinct kinds—the plastic and the ulcerative, the types of which exist in the primary sore, the hard base and plastic deposit around which reproduce themselves in a mst variety of forms, as in indurated glands, in nodes, and visceral guinmata. The ulcera- tion is constantly met with in those secondary and tertiary ulcers, invading skin, mucous membrane, and bones, which play such prominent parts in the ravages of constitutional syphilis, and which arc often preceded by, and are the results of, the disintcgi’ation of preilously deposited plastic gummata. In these respects, indeed, the progress of an infecting syjDhilitic sore closely resembles that of any other disease, which, primarily local, becomes secondarily constitutional, ivhcther it be the infective clot that leads to pya3inia, the germ