0o2 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT FARTB. Ilie eye may also Bud’er iu eonsef^ueuce of Wound or Irritation of tlie Sranches of the Fifth Pair* of Nerves.* This has long' been observed. Hippoerates speaks of loss of vision consequent on wounds of the eyebrow ; <uid makes the very accurate observation, that the impairment is less when the wound is recent, but increases as cicatrisation ad\-ances. Fabriciiis Hildanus and La Motto relate cases in Avhieh blindness followed wounds of the outer angle of the orbit. Morgagni relates the case of a lady who, in consequence of the o^’crtm-ning of a carriage, was wounded by some splinters of glass in the upper eyelid. The eyeball was uninjured : but vision became gradually impaired, and Avas almost lost by the fortieth day after the accident. It is by no means necessary for the production of impaired Ausion after injury of parts of the fifth nerve, that there should be an actual Avomid ; a simple contusion is sufficient. Wardrop states that it is only AAdiere the frontal nerve is wounded or injiu’ed and not divided, that amam’osis takes place. Indeed, in some cases, amaimosis has been cimed by division of the nerve after its partial injiuy. That it is the irritation, and not complete division of the nerve, that leads to loss of vision, is in accordance with the Auew of BroAvn-Sequard, that the immediate effects of section of a nerve are A^ery different from those Avhich are observed as the result of its irritation. The loss of vision may come on instantaneously, as in a case related by Wardrop of a sailor struck by a ramrod on the eyebroAV; after a few days, as in a case recorded by Chelius where the loss of A'ision came on eight days after a bloAV in the eyebroAv; or after a longer lapse of time, as in most of the recorded cases. In the great majority of cases the impairment of Ausion is at first slight, and gradually goes on to complete loss of sight. In AAfoat way can irritation of a branch of the trifacial nerve, unaccompanied by any direct injury of the eyeball or the structures of the orbit, produce in- stantaneously or remotely loss of vision ? Some observers haA^e attributed this to the propagation of irritation along the sheath of the neive to the trunk of the ophthalmic dmsion, and thence along to the sheath of the optic nerve and the retina. But there is no evidence of such a propagation; and this explana- tion would not account for those cases in which blindness suddenly super- veaied. That injmy of the fifth nerve produces important changes in the eye, has been incontestably determined in late years by the experiments of Snellen, Schiff, Biittner, Messner, and others; and whether we explain the moibid changes that occim in the eye as a consequence of the injury of the nerve by the supposition that “neuro-paralytic” inflammation is set up in the globe, or suppose that the surface by losing its sensibility becomes more liable to the action of external irritants, matters little to the practical Sm-geon. Wardrop says that “ the distribution of the fii-st branch of the fifth pair or ophthalmic branch explains how wounds of the frontal, inff-a-orbital, and other branches of nerves which form anastomoses Avith the ophthalmic gang ion, me sometimes folloAved by amainosis.” No doubt it is to the intiinate cmmexioiis that exist betAveen the frontal nerA'e, the ophthahnic diA-ision of the fifth, and * Sec ■•Concussion of Spine.” Lecture X., r- 233, ei sc,.. Longn.ans. 1875. for a L,n account of tlu-.so injuries.