SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 14° CHAPTEK V. SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. SuppuEATiox, or tliG formation of pus, has aUeady been referred to in the last chapter, as one of the results of inflammation. It consists, in flict, as will be presently described, of a continuance and exaggeration of one of the factors •of inflammation—the excessive formation of white cells. Characters op Pus.—Pus presents considerable variety in its general •character, according to the natime of the patient’s constitution, or the con- dition of the part in which it is formed. When formed in a person of healthy constitution, as the result of sthenic inflammation, it is an opacpie, creamy fluid, thick, smooth, and slightly ;glutinous to the touch ; of a yellowish-white colour, with a greenish tinge, ha\ing a faint odoim, and an alkaline reaction. Its siDeciflc gramty is from 1030 to 1033. Chemically, it contains various albiuniiious compounds, with fatty matters, and salts, chiefly chloride of sodium ; it usually gives off a small ■quantity of ammonia. Pus presenting these characters is termed liealtJuj or laudable. When admixed and tinged vuth blood, pus is said to be sanious; when thin, watery, and acrid, ichorous; when containing cheesy-looking flakes, it is termed ■curdy; and when diluted with mucus or serum, it is frequently called muco- pus, or sero-pus. Besides these, pus presents many other varieties. Thus, for instance, when formed fr’om bone, or in the neighbomfrood of the alimentaiy canal, it has a peculiar fetid odoim. Its chemical composition may likevdse vary under different circumstances : thus, ordinary pus formed in the soft pai’ts •contains merely a trace of phosphate of lime, whereas that which is formed in •connection with diseased bone has been found by B. Cooper to contain 2? per cent, of this salt. Pus presents other peculiarities, which are oidy cognisable by them effects on the system: thus, the pus from speciflc sores possesses cou- fagious properties, though in chemical, microscopical, and physical constitu- tion, it does not differ from other forms of that fluid. Microscopic Characters.—On examining pus mider the microscope, it is fomid to consist of corpuscles floating in a homogeneous fluid, the “ liquor piu is. These corpuscles, about -jj-Au -s-oVo of ^’^loh in diameter, are composed ot a semi-transparent cell-wall, containing two or three nuclei, which are rendered very apparent by acetic acid (Fig- 71). The appearance here described, how- ever, is that of the corpuscles in the dead state, after removal from the bodj, and when their temperatme has fallen. The researches ot "'i on Reckling- hausen, Schultze, and others, have shovm that these corpuscles (and the -white corpuscles of the blood) midergo changes of form like those of the amoc a.