SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE DISEASES. 686 The Constittitional Treatment consists in as nourishing a diet as th-e patient will take, with a liberal supply of stimulants ; and these may be increased by the addition of the brandy-and-egg mixture, or of ammonia, in proportion as depression comes on, from five to seven grains of the sulphate of quinine should be given every four or six hours, with a full dose of opium at bed-time, or more fr’equently if there be much pain and irritation. GANCJEENOUS STOMATITIS, OR CANORUM ORIS. A peculiar phagedtenic ulceration, closely resembling hospital gangrene, is occasionally met with in the mouths of ill-fed children living in low and damp situations, most connnonly occurring between the second and sixth or eighth years, but more especially about the period of the second dentition. In its mildest form this affection presents itself as small, deep, and foul gi-eyish ulcers, on the inside of the lips or cheeks, attended with a red spongy condition of the gums and much foetor of the breath. Good food and air with nourishing diet, the administration of bark, with the chlorate of potash, and the use of chlorinated lotions, with the honey of borax, will soon bring about a cure. Signs of Canckum Okis.—The more severe form of the affection, the true Cancrum Oris, commonly occurs during convalescence from some of the eruptive diseases of childhood, or after the incautious administration of mercury during a weak state of the system. One of the cheeks becomes swollen, braivny, tense, and shining, being excessively hard, and presenting a red patch in its centre. In consequence of this swelling, it is often difficult to open the mouth ; but if the Surgeon can gain a view of its inside, he will see a deep and excavated foul ulcer opposite to the centre of the external swelling, covered with a brown pulpy slough. The gimis are tm-gid, dark, and ulcerated ; the saliva is mixed with putrescent matters ; and, as the ulceration in the mouth extends, the sweUing sloughs, and a large, dark, circular gangrenous cavity forms in the cheek, opening through into the mouth. During all this time the child suffers little, but, as the disease advances, it commonly becomes drowsy, and at last dies comatose. '\¥hen fully developed, this affection is most fatal. Eilliet and Barthez state that not more than one in twenty cases recovers. miii- Treatment.—The treatment is that of hospital gangrene. The sloughing mass shoidd be deeply cauterised with nitric acid, but not with the actual cautery, lest the cheek be destroyed ; the mouth should be syimged out with the dilute solution of the chlorides ; and the system supported with beef-tea, ^vine, and ammonia, in doses proportioned to the age of the child. After the cure of the disease, the cheek may be deeply cicatrised, contracted, and rigid, much in the same way as after a bum, requiring possibly some plastic opera- tion in order to enable the child to open its mouth properly.