LOCAL TREATMENT OF CHANCRE. 837 Tl)c treatment of chancre is of a local and of a conslUuUonal character. The local treatment has for its object cither to destroy the poisonous character of the sore, or to modify it so as to bring it into the state ol a hea thy ulcei ; the constitutional treatment is not only intended to facilitate this, but to prevent, if possible, infection of the general system with the poison of con- stitutional syiihilis, should this have been communicated with the local disease. Local Treatment.—This has for its object either the destruction or tlie modification of the specific character of the sore. The complete destruction of the local virus should always, if possible, be effected ; and if this can be done in the eai-ly stage of the disease, the healing of the sore will be much expedited. But, even though considerable time have passed before the Surgeon sees the sore, it is well to destroy the ulcerating and poisonous sm’face, that its further extension may bo prevented. This should bo effected by the appli- cation of caustics in a sufficiently concentrated form to destroy radically and at once the specific character of the sore, so as not only to save the pain, but to^ prevent the imtation attendant upon frequent applications. The nitrate of silver, which is frequently used for this puipose, is too weak to secure the effect it is intended tO accomplish, being apt to irritate and inflame, and not to destroy the chancrous surface, thus necessitating repeated and painful appli- cations. I consequently prefer to this the strong nitric acid, one application of which AviU very commonly suffice to annihilate the specific character of the sore ; though more energetic in action, it does not give rise to more pain than the nitrate of silver. It should be applied by means of a piece of wool, a glass rod, or a small dossil of lint wrapped round the end of a silver probe ; with this the sore may be freely mopped, and then, a stream of cold Avater having been pom-ed over it to Avash away any superfluous acid, a light poultice or a piece of Avater-dicssing should be laid on ; after the small slough produced by the caustic has separated, a healthy granulating siuface AviU be left. The caustic may be applied at any time during the continuance of the specific condition of the sore ; but AAhen once this has been destroyed, it should not be re-applied. The potassa fusa and the potassa cum calcc, though occasionally used, are far less manageable and not more efficacious applications than the nitric acid. "VVith the vicAV of modifying the specific character of the sore, there is no application so efficacious as iodoform. A small, quantity should be dusted on CAcry day, and the sore dressed dry Avith Cotton-Avool. It is most efficacious, and will often cure a soft chancre in a Aveek or ten days. These arc the means that are generally most useful in /Simple Chancres. In some cases, however, inflammation of the sore, or peculiarities in its situa- tion, demand modifications of the treatment. If there be much inflammation about the sore and prepuce, this must first be subdued by the application of cold poultices, or of lead and spirit lotion. When this is removed, if the sore have not lost its specific character, the caustic should be applied in the usual Avay. Should there be phimosis Avith discharge of chancrous pus fi’om under the tightened prepuce, it Avill be better to slit this up, so as to expose and freely cauterise the subjacent chancres. If the cut edges of the prepuce become inoculated, they must also be cauterised freely and ea,rly.