SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 498 of the subject, gives this structure, from its shape, the name of the Y-ligament; and he believes that, while its branches arc unbroken, one or other of the four regular dislocations of the hip will occur : the particular dislocation depending upon the relative positions of the head of the femur and the ilio-femoral liga- ment. In no case, however, do any of the muscles, except, perhaps, the obtirrator internus, exercise any influence on the displacement. When the Y-ligament is ruptiu’cd, an irregular dislocation, the signs of which may be un- certain, will occiu’. The strength of this ligament is always great, although it vai'ies much. Bigelow has found that its breaking power in the dead body ranges from 250 to 750 pounds. ‘The next stnicture of most importance, as has been pointed out by Bigelow, is the ohturator intermis. muscle. He has shown that its muscular body is usually intermixed with tendinous structure. In consequence of this aiTange- ment, it acquires great strength when contracted, and, indeed, becomes practically an accessory hgament. Bigelow classifies dislocations of the head of the thigh-bone into Regular Rislocatiions, in which one or both branches of the Y-hgament remain im- broken ; and Irregular, in which the Y-ligament is wholly ruptiu’ed. The Te^'uldT dislocations in which both branches remain entire, are : 1, Dorsal; 2, Dorsal below the tendon (ischiatic of Cooper); 3, Thyroid and downward ; a, obliquely inward on the thyroid foramen ; 1), obliquely inward as far as the perina3iun ; c, vertically downward beneath the acetabulum ; d, obliquely out- ward as far as the tuberosity ; 4, Pubic and Subspinous ; 5, Anterior oblique. Those in which the external branch is broken are : G, Supraspinous; and 7, Everted Dorsal. _ ^ ^ a With regard to the relative frequency of the various forms of dislocation or the hip. Sir A. Cooper says, that of 20 cases of dislocation of the hip, 12 will, on the average, be on the dorsum ilii, 5 on the sciatic notch, 2 on the obtiuator foramen, and one on the pubic bone. Hamilton states that, excluding anoma- lous cases, of 104 cases of dislocation of the hip which he has coUected, 55 were on the dorsum ilii, 28 into the sciatic notch, 13 into the obturator fora- men, and 8 upon the pubic bone. Dislocation of the hip-joint chiefly occurs in young or middle-aged adults. In veiT old people, fractime of the neck of the femim will commonly be pro- duced by the same violence that would have displaced the head of the bone at an earlier ao-e. In children dislocation is rare, as the shaft generally gives way. Yet it does happen even at a very early age. Two cases have ocem-red m my practice at the Hospital. In one the bone was dislocated on the pubic bone, in a child a year and a half old ; in the other on the dorsum ihi in a boy of sixv For convenience of description, and with a view to practical utility, we may -in-ano-e dislocations of the hip-joint in three principal varieties. _ 1 Dislocations Upwards and Backwards.—The most common (hsloca- tion is that in Avhich the head of the bone is tin-own uimards and laclcwcirds Sel-- of the iU»m, or rather upon "S displaeement differs so slightly in its pathology and ™ tion into the seiatio noteh (Kg. 224), desenbed as 0 ^^ A ti™n^ injiuyby Sir A. Cooijer, that I think it is more consistent w ith the tiuenatm