520 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. from tlic depressed state into ■which he is thro'wn, and perhaps sinks without recoYery. The Pathology of concussion of tlie brain is very ol^scurc. The roasoir of this is obvious ;—tcAV people die from simple concussion. In those cases in which death has occun-ed from other causes during a state of cerebral concussion, it has been found that the disturbance of the functions of the brain constituting concussion has been due to actual lesion of its substance. In some cases, the vessels of the brain and its membranes have been congested. In others, again, portions of the cerebral substance, varying in size fr-om points to patches an inch or more in diameter, have been disintegrated and more or less ecchymosed. In the more severe and fatal cases of concussion of the brain, the cerebral substance is ecchymosed in a punctiform manner or dis- organised to a great extent; in fact, in these cases the characteristic signs of contusion of the brain become apparent. The Signs of concussion vary according to the severity of the injmy to the brain. In the slighter cases, the patient may merely feel giddy and confused for a few minutes. In others, consciousness is not affected, but the patient feels faint and weak, and is unable to stand. In the more severe forms in that degree, indeed, which usually accompanies any severe nijin-y of the head— the sin’face of the body becomes cold and pale ; the sufferer is motionless and insensible, or only answers when spoken to in a loud ^oice, relapsing again into speedy uisensibility, or rather semi-consciousness; the pulse is feeble, the pupils are usually conti’acted, but may be dilated, and generally respond to the action of light, and the sphincters are usually relaxed ; the limbs are flaccid, and muscular power is impaired or lost. After this condition, which is the flrst stage of concussion, has lasted for a few minutes or hours, according to the severity of the shock, the second stage comes on ; the circidation gi-adually re- establishing itself, the pulse becoming fuller, and the surface warmer. _ About this time the patient very commonly vomits; the straining accompanpng this effort appears to be of sei-snce in stimulating the heart’s action, and drmng t e blood with more vigoin- to the bram, thus tending to restore its functions ; and we accorduigly find that, after vomiting, the sufferer quickly ralhes. In the more severe cases, the symptoms that have just been described are so strong y marked that the patient appears to be moribund ; there is complete prostration of aU nervous and physical power ; the surface being cold and death-hke, the eyes glassy, the pupils either contracted or widely dilated, the pidse scaicely perceptible and intemittent. In this state the_ patient may he recovery being slow, and the concussion merging into some othei and pei n,ore sLiouskffeckn of the nervous centres ; ; speedily teiminating in death, apparently by failure of the heait s action. &it if may\mly be said, that eveiy case of concussion in which unconsciousinss, thoiiji but momentary, has been produced, is a most serious one. ^ y m- mote evil consequence in the form of secondaiy ensue, if once the brain-substance tavebeen so severely shakm M t patient unconscious, even though the insensibility hwt but a Lich cases require to be closely w.atched and caretnlly managed loi months after the injury. The Terminations ot concussion arc Aaiious. ^YQ have already scon that