Fig. 199.—Fractures of Tibia aud Fibula above Aukle. FRACTURES XEAR ANKLE-JOINT. 451 Fracfciu-es of tlie lower ends of tlic tibia aud fibula present four distinct varieties in degree. 1. The fibula may be broken two or throe inches above the malleolus externus, the deltoid ligament being either stretched or tom. 2. The fibula may be fractured about thi-ee inches above the anlde, the tip of the malleolus interims being splintered off as well (Fig. 198). This con- stitutes the form of injury called Pott's Fracture, and is perhaps the most common fracture in this situation. 3. The fibula may be fmctimed about throe inches above the ankle, and the lower end of the tibia at the same time be splintered off in an oblique direction from without, doimwards, and inwards (Fig. 199). 4. The internal malleolus may alone be broken off, the fibula remaining sound, but one of the divisions of the external lateral ligament being torn through. The Signs of these fr’actures vary somewhat according to the bone that is injm’ed. When the fibula alone is broken, there is but slight displacement of the foot, but great pain aud much swelling, with perhaps indistinct crepitus, aud irregularity of outline at the seat of fracture. When the lower part of the fibula is broken, pain is pro- duced at the fr’actured part by squeezing the bones of the leg together at a point distant from the seat of injury. If the tip of the inner malleolus be broken off as well, this may be ascertained by feeling the depression above the detached fragment. In those cases the crepitus is more distinct, and the displacement of the foot is much more marked, the sole being timied somewhat upwards and outwards, and the patient resting upon its inner side. It is this peculiar twist of the foot with its outer edge turned up, and the inner side doivn, that constitutes the characteristic sign of Pott’s fractiu’e. In those cases in which the lower end of the tibia is obliquely splintered, as well as the fibula broken, there are not only the ordinary signs of fracture, with eversion of the toes, and a corresponding timning inwards of the heel, and some rotation of the foot outwards, but the malleoli are widely separated, giving an appearance of great increase of breadth to the joint; crepitus is very readily felt, and a depression can be perceived corresponding to the fine of fracture. The Tieatment of these cases is always fraught with difficulty. In con- sequence of the swelling and infiammation that usually occur, it is often diffi- cult to make out the exact extent and direction of the fr-acture. This difficidty 18 greatly increased by the^ small size and short leverage afforded by the ragments ; a,nd so great is it, that in some cases it cannot be overcome by any amount of skill and patience that may be brought to boar on the treatment of e injury, but a certain degree of displacement results as the necessary con- ^quence of the injury, leaTOig a weak and painful joint, the mobility of which IS senously impaired. If, as usuaUy happens, more particularly when the fr-actine results fr-om ma ory ae .on th 8 will rcqmrc to be subdued by the continuous application of cold, and the l.mb sho.dd be laid on a splint. If there be not m,® Ssplacc- G G 2