COXDITIOiVS REQUIRING AMPUTATION. 233 sciatic nerve, and splinter the thigh-bone ; or if the sciatic nerve and soft parts at the back of the tliigh be carried away, althougli the vessels and bone l)e loft luiinjured, the case is one for amputation ; and, indeed, it may be stated generally (though, doubtless, there are exceptions to this, as to all general rules in surgery) that all compounil fraciures of the lotver third of the femur occasioned by gun-shot require amputation. The mortality, however, after amputation for gnn-shot injmy of the vj)per two-thirds of the thigh, is so very great, that many Surgeons have abandoned the operation in these cases, and professional opinion is un- settled as to the course that should be pursued. In the Schleswig-Holstein war of ISin, it became a question with many of the German and Danish Siu’geons whether this oiDeration should be continued, or Avhether the patient Avould not haA'e a better chance if the injury were treated on ordinary principles as a compound fracture. At the siege of Sebastopol, the mortality after amputation of the nipper third of the thigh was so great in the Russian army, that the Surgeons abandoned the operation. On the other hand, it is stated in the Report of the Black Sea Fleet, that to attempt to save the limb in any case of gun-shot fractiu’e of the thigh Avas to endanger the patient’s life. In the Crimea, Macleod states, that a bad compound fracture of the thigh from gun-shot was synonymous AAuth death. This was partly owing to the bad health of the troops, and partly to the tenlble effects of conical balls. In India, where romid bullets and matchlock balls were more used, the result Avas not so bad. Macleod states that, although he made every inquiry, he could hear of three cases only in which recovery had, in the Crimea, followed a compound fracture of the upper third of the thigh-bone without amputation. But, exceptional as were sucli recoA’eries, he states that they were not so rare as after amputation for similar injuries ; as indeed was proved by the fact that not one patient recoA’ered after amputation at the hip-joint. Hutin, the Surgeon to the IiiA alides in Paris, Avas able to discoA’er twenty-four cases of recovery after compound fracture above the middle of the thigh, but no case of recoA'ery after amputation for injury of the same part. In the British army in the Crimea, the amjAutations in the upper third of the thigh, which must haA'e been for compound fractures low down in the bone, were fatal, in the ratio of 8G per cent.; of those in the middle, probably for injuries of the lower articular end and knee, 00 per cent, died; Avhilst of those in the lower third, which must haAC been for injuries of the knee ajid leg, the mortality was reduced to 5G per cent. The conclusions at Avhich Macleod amA’es after a careful inquiry into t is question, are so important, that I give them in his own Avords. He says: ndei circumstances of Avar similar to those Avhich occuiTed in the East, AAC ought to try to save compound comminuted fr-actures of the thigh AA’hen SI lAatecl in the ii|Aper third ; but immediate amputation shoidd be had recoui’se 0 in the case of a like accident occumng in the middle and loAver thirds.” n t e gyeat civil Avar in America, the opinions of Surgeons appear to haA'e leeu lAidcd ; and the conclusion airived at seems to have been that, proA'ided e arp vessels and nerves Avere not injured, and the circumstances in which com-eyance not too nnfavourable, the chance of unrlo f u whether amputation were performed or an attempt , c idcd by the free use of antiseptics, to save the limli. But CA'cn in