743 SEROUS OR SIMPLE CYSTS. secretions of the glands in the cyst-wall mixed with desquamated epithelium. These cysts arc by no means uncommon. They are always congenital, although they may perhaps not be noticed for some little time after birth. One of the most common situations in which they are found is at the outer angle of the orbit; hero they are excessiyoly thin-walled, requiring yery carefid dissection for their removal. If a small piece of the cyst-wall be left behind, it will give rise to a troublesome fistulous opening, or even the cyst may re-form itself. Occasionally the bones of the skull have been found to be absorbed or not developed beneath these tumours, a fact which it is importaut to remember in attempting their removal. These cysts have also been foimd within the skull. 3. The third variety of dermoid cysts in- cludes those peculiar tiunoiu’s which contain teeth and portions of bone. These haA'c been supposed to be the remains of blighted ova inclosed in the body, but this view is by no means proved. These tumours are most frequently met with in the abdomen, especially about the OA^aries, mesen- tery, and omentum ; they have also been observed in connection vnth the testis, haAing probably descended into the scrotum with this gland. A very remarkable case of this kind once occuived at University College Hospital, under Marshall. They have also been found in the lung, but never, I believe, in connection with the extremities. Cysts containing fatty matters present several varieties. The contents may be derived from the fatty degeneration of epithelial structmes, or of the con- tents of a cyst originating in any of the ways above described. Sometimes the fatty matters are in the form of a half-fiuid oily emulsion, or of a Avhite cheesy mass of the consistence of soft putty ; at others they present a A^ery peculiar appearance knoAAii as Cholesteatoma {Perlgeschioulst, Twneur PerUe). This consists of a smooth, laminated, Avhite and dry fatty mass, contained in a cyst, and composed partly of concentrically arranged epithelial cells, and partly of crystalline fat and cholesterine. Virchow has described this as a distinct variety of tumour, and considers that it is not necessarily connected with epithelial formation. It usually occurs in the temporal bone, but has been foimd in the cerebellimi. It is a very rare form of tumoim. (Z») Serous or Simple Cysts are met AAuth in almost CA’ery situation, being composed of a thin expanded wall containing a slightly viscid serous fluid. They arc usually found to be lined with a flat endothelium, like that lining the serous caA'ities. One of their most frequent situations is in the neck. The Compound, or, as they are often called. Proliferous or Midtilocular Cysts, are especially met Avith in the ovary, and have been studied Ainth great cai*e by Hodgkin, and more recently by Wilson Fox. Of these there are two Aarietics, the first consisting of an aggTegation of simple cysts closely packed and pressed together ; the second composed of cysts having others PTOAvino- rom their Avails. ^ The caA'ities of these multilocular cysts present the greatest possible variety in their contents; fluid, from a limpid serum to a semi- 8ohc ]elly-hke matter, and of OAxiy shade, from light-yeUow to greenish- ■■ g>™ths, caucerous th™ ’ cutaneous stractims, ore also found in