ULCERATION. I 70 In tlio Trcaimo.nt of this nicer, we must attend to the constitutional as well ns to the local condition. The patiejit should be put upon an alterative coui-sc ■of medicine, with aloetic piu’gatives, and some sedative at bedtime to procure rest. The mode of topical medication which I have found to succeed l)est, is to brush the surface of‘the sore and the siuTouiiding parts from time to time Avith a strong solution of nitrate of silver, and then to keep emollient and sedative applications applied to it, such as lead and opium lotions. The ■occasional application of the nitrate of silver deadens materially the morbid sensibility of the sore, and assists its gi’anulation. Inflamed Ulcer.—This is characterised by much redness, heat, and .swelling, of the siuTounding parts, accompanied by a thick and offensive dischai-ge, often streaked with blood ; it may arise from the over-stimulation of one of the other varieties. The Treatment must be locally and generally antiphlogistic. The elevated position, the appheation of leeches aroimd the sore, and of cold evaporating lotions to the siu’face of the limb, speedily subdue the iuflammatory action; .and the healing process then takes place noth great rapidity. Sloughing Ulcer.—When not specific, this is au increased degree of the inflamed variety, usually ocemving in a feeble or cachectic constitution, and generally accompanied by a good deal of in'itative fever. An angry dusky red blush forms about the sore, which becomes hot and painful; the siu’face .assumes a greyish sloughy look, the edges are sharp cut, and the ulcerati^e action extends rapidly. Treatment.—This should consist in improving the general health by lessen- ing irritation, and keeping up tone. The administration of opiates, with noiu’ishing but uustimulating diet, should be trusted to, at the same time that ■the local action is subdued by rest and warm opiate lotions. When the inflaru- matory condition has subsided, tonics should be given internally, and a grain or two of the sulphate of copper or zinc, or a little carbolic acid, may be added to the lotion with which the sore is dressed. The specific varieties of sloughing ulcer will be considered iii the Chapters ■on Hospital Gangrene, &c. _ ,• j .-.i "Varicose Ulcer derives its chief characteristic from being complicated w ith, ■or dependent upon, a varicose condition of the veins of the leg. In this ■affection of the venous trunks the skin gradually undergoes degeneration, becoming brawny, of a pmplish brown colour, and being traversed m all ■directions by enlarged and tortuous cutaneous veins. The ulcer forms at ■one of these congested spots, by the breaking down of the afready disorganised tind softened tissue, producing a small irregular chasm of an unhealthy appeai-- ance and varying much in character, being sometimes inflamed, at otheis irritable or sloughy, and then becoming indolent. One of the ^ <3ffects of this ulcer is that, by penetrating into one of ^ occasionally gives rise to very abundant hinmorrhage ; the pataent 111 he course of a few seconds losing a pint or two of blood This hieinoiT ag 1 my be readily arrested by laying the patient 011 his back, elevating the liml, compressing the bleeding point with a pledget of lint and a lollei. Vhe Treatment of ^ !.iricose ulcer must have Bimcud reference to h^ ■condition of the veins that occasions it ; no local applications having much 1