^5^ SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. off a vapour of the acid for many months even when exposed freely to the air it IS intended to be placed over the wound to absorb any discharge fr-om it and to keep it free fr’om decomposition. Its action is exactly the same as that of carded oakum, but it is more cleanly, more easily applied, and more certain in its action. The protective is a substance impenneable to carbolic acid, intended to be placed over a granulating wound in order to prevent, as far as possible, the direct contact of the carbolic acid, which, acting as a powerful iiTitant, would an-est or at least delay healing, and cause profuse suppuration, it IS used over granulating sores left after opening abscesses, &c., when it is thought desirable that they should heal. It is soaked in carbolic acid and water (1 to 40) before it is applied, so as to destroy any germs that may be resting upon fr ,- and after appheation, the small proportion of carbolic acid on Its surface being rapidly absorbed by the sore beneath, it is left almost perfectly fr’ee fr’om any imtating qualities. The opening of an abscess according to the antiseptic method is, therefore, done as follows. The skin all round for at least nine inches being well washed udth the watery solution, a spray of the same solution is blovm upon the part where the incision is to be made, and the abscess is opened with a knife which has also been dipped in the watery solution. The pus in the abscess being squeezed out, a plug of lint soaked in the oily solution or a piece of the gauze soaked in either the watery or the oily solution, is pushed into the opening so as to act as a drain, and allow the escape of the serous discharge, for the first few days ; or an India-rubber drainage-tube, soaked in carbolic acid, may be used as before described in the ordinary treatment of abscesses. The part is then wvapped in the gauze, folded eight layers thick and extending six or eight inches or more, accordiirg to the amount of discharge, on each side of the opening ; the spray must be kept up imtil the whole part is enveloped in the gauze. Over this dressing must be put a jnece of gutta-percha tissue, or of thin macintosh cloth dipped i:i carbolic acid and water, so that the discharge may not soak thi’ough at one spot and decompose, but may be evenly diffused over the whole of the di’essing. Over this water-proof material a bandage composed of the antiseptic gauze may be placed, and over all a common bandage if it be thought necessary. If the spray-apparatus be not at hand, or if there be no assistant to work it, the same objects may be obtained by the judicious use of a piece of rag soaked in the oily solution. It must be held over the part where the opening is being' made, and dropped on immediately it is completed, and the pus squeezed out fr’om underneath it. The dressing can then be put on over it, a corner of it being left exposed by which it can be chwvn out as soon as the gauze is finnly over the opening. Diming the after-dressings it is hardly necessary to use a rag soaked in the oily solution, imless the discharge be very profuse ; for, as the time occupied is veiy short, a piece of linen soaked in the ivatery solution will answer all the pm-poses required. It must be put over the whole part where the incision is, and the dressing removed from under it without exposing the wound to the air at all. If it be desirable to look at the opening, the rag may be raised while a small stream of carbolic acid and water is run over the wound by means of a syringe, an Esmarch’s irrigator, or a sponge. The dressings should be repeated on the day after the opening of the abscess, and, after that, CA'cry alternate day, or CA'cry third or fourth day, according to the amount of discharge.