MOlililD CONDITIONS OF STUMPS. 47 or two have -Arteiy of Tliigli-Stiuni) laid oiien. Fig. 13.—Nerve in a Stump of Fore- arm. STUMPS. On examining the Structure of a Shmij), after a year elapsed from the time of its formation, it will he found to lie composed of a mass of fibro-cellular tissue, the muscular and tendinous structures that enter into its fomation ha^■ing become thus trans- formed. The ends of the bones will be foimd to bo rounded, and the medullary canal filled up, the vessels being obliterated up to the netuest collateral branch (Fig. 12). The ends of the nerves are thickened, and commonly assume a bulbous appearance (Fig. 13). On examining these rounded or oval tumoiu’s, they will be found to be fibro- cellular masses, having nervous fibrillm thiuly scattered throughout. The luoper adaptation of Artificial Limbs is a matter of considerable consequence ; and the ingenious mechanical contrivances that are at the present day adapted to stumps, leave little to be desired. The Siugeon had better leave the details of these mechanical con- trivances to the instrument-maker; but he should see that they are made light, consistently with sufficient strength and support, and that the end of the stump is never pressed upon by them. Thus, after amputation of the thigh, the artificial limb should take its bearing point from the lower part of the peh'is and hip. In amputation im- mediately below the knee, this joint should be bent and received into the socket of the instrument ; and, if the amputation be at a loAver point than this, and the stump be extended into the artificial limb, its end must be protected from injiuious pressiue. Ea-cii in the case of disarticulation at the ankle-joint, where the soft tissues of the heel are left, pressure can seldom be borne upon the end of the stump. Morbid Conditions of Stumps.—Necrosis.—It not un- freqnently happens that the end of the bone in a stimip dies. Most commonly this is the consequence of inflammation (osteo-myelitis) set up in that portion of the bone which is left'in the stimip, as the residt of Avhich its vitality is lost, and necrosis sets in; or it may occiu* in consequence of the injiny inflicted by the saw. This is especially apt to happen in persons of feeble constitution, in AAdiom the limb has, prcAdously to the operation, been the seat of abscess that has denuded the bone or otherAvise injured its \itality. In these cases a fistulous opening A\ill be lefo leading doAAii to the necrosed bone, AA'hich usually se- parates three or four months after the operation in the shape of a complete ring, Avith iiTcgnlarly spiked pro- longations stretching ft-om its upper part (Fig. 14); after this has been Fig. 14 .—Necrosed end of Femur from Stump.