149 DIAGNOSIS AND PROGNOSIS. themselves. The fluctuation may, however, readily be confounded with the undulatoiy sensation conmnniicated by some tissues from the mere inflltration of sero-i)lastic fluid into them, or even without this, fr-om their natimal laxity, as is sometimes the case in the areolar tissue of the nates and thigh in persons of lymphatic temperament. This, indeed, is a difference of degi'ce rather than of kind ; as pus woidd make its appearance in the coiu’se of a few hoiu’s, if the tumour were left to itself. The mere occiuTencc of fluctuation, however, is not of itself sufficient to determine more than that a fluid exists in the part. The question necessarily arises, is this fluid pus ? In the majority of instances, the history of the case, the character of the pain, the previous existence and the continuance of symptoms of inflammation, enable the Surgeon to answer in the affinnative. But if, as in chi’onic or cold abscesses, there be only obscure evi- dence of inflammation having existed, and if the swelling be of long standing, the fluctuation being perhaps deeply seated and indistinct, the safer plan will be for the Siu’geon to introduce an exploring needle, and to see what the true nature of the fluid is; by this simple means many embarrassing mistakes in diagnosis may be avoided. The tiunoin's with wliich abscesses may more easily be confounded, are those- soft solid (jroioths in which there is a high degree of elasticity, giving rise to a species of undulation, as in some kinds of encephaloid tumour. Fluid tumours of various kinds, such as cysts and enlarged bursie, also may be confounded with abscesses. In these cases the previous symptoms, the situation, and the general appearance and feel of the tumom, will usually enable the Smgeon to effect a ready diagnosis ; but should any doubt exist, the exploring needle or trochar must be introduced, when, if pus be present, a di'op or two wiU escape. The “suction-trochar” (Fig. 75), or the “asphator,” is of especial service in cases m M-hich it IS desirable to withdraw some of the contained fluid for closer ex-amina ion. he diaguosis of an abscess haring pulsation communicated to it y a supacent aiteiy, from an aneurism, will be discussed when we come to rig. Vs.—Suotiou-Ti’ocliar. speak of that disease.