INJURIES OF THE JfEAI). 53S Fracture by Contrecoup lias boon doscrilicd )>y some Surgeons as of fi’e- quenfc occuiTcnce, whilst it has been denied by others. There can, however, be no doubt that it does happen, though less commonly, perhaps, than is geneially supposed. Il/very hospital Surgeon must occasionally have seen une- quh ocal instances of it. hor its occurrence, several conditions are necessary. The skull must be struck over a large sin-face, as when a person falls with his head against the ground. If a blow fall on a thin portion of it, this Avill be fractured directly ; but if a dense and strong part of the bone be struck, as the parietal eminence, or the lower part of the os frontis, the shock transmitted through the skull generally will cause the thinnest and most brittle portions of it, though distant, to give w^ay in preference to the stronger part on which the blow has immediately fallen. The fractin-c by contrecoup is most common at the base of the skull, and is usually much radiated. It is always fissured, never depressed. SniPLE Fracture.—Au ordinai-y simple or undepressed fracture of the skull consists in a fissiu-e, sometimes smgle, at other times stai-red, extend- ing often to a considerable distance through the bones, radiating sometimes across the skull, and in other cases completely detaching its upper fr-om its lower part, or its anterior from its posterior segment. In some cases the frac- tiu-e extends into one of the sutiues ; and in other instances, which, however, are vei-y rare, the sutiues are separated wdthout any fractiue. The injury usually occius from duect violence, but is also the only form of fr-acture that happens by contrecoup. A fissiue or fracture, such as this, gives rise to no signs by which its diagnosis can be effected, and often escapes detection altogether, more iiarticularly when the scalp covering it is not wounded, or, if contused, when so large a quantity of blood is extravasated as to render it impossible for the Surgeon to feel the subjacent bone. If, however, the scalp covering the injured bone have been womided, its exist- ence may be ascertained by running the finger-nail, or the end of a probe, over the exposed surface of the bone, or by seeing a fissure into which the blood sinks. As the whole importance and danger of fractiue of the skull depend, not upon the injiuy that the bone has sustained, but on the concomitant or secondary lesions of which the contents of the cranium are the seat, no special Treaiment is required for the fr-acture itself when simple and undepressed, the Surgeon’s whole attention being directed to the injiuy that may have been inflicted on the brain or scalp. Active precautionary- measures should be adopted without delay, -with the view' of guarding against the occm-rcnce of inflammation of the brain and its membranes, even though no symptoms hai'e as yet declared themselves. So soon as the patient has recovered fr-om the concussion, his head should be shaved, an ice-bladder applied, and blood taken fr-om the arm ; the bowels should be w'ell opened, and the room kept cool and quiet. The employment of fr-ee and, if need be, repeated bleeding is, howei-er, of more service than any other means, and should never be onnttcd, except in feeble, very young, or aged subjects. In Chronic Hydrocephalus, the cranial bones are thinned and expanded : but, being at the same time preternatiuiially elastic and mobile, they are seldom fraeturcd. When they are so injured, the presence of the water may