899 NEUROMA. this operation for the case of traumatic neuralgia. In a case of this kind nlfecting the arm, and resulting from gun-shot injury, he cut down on and stretched the ulnar nerve, then the nerves suri'ouuding the brachial artery, and lastly the brachial plexus itself, pulling vigorously on the nervous cords. The result was a perfect cure. This operation has been done successfully by Cal- lender on the median nerve, by Marcus Beck on the cords of the brachial plexus in a case of intense neuralgia and spasm of the stump after amputation at the shoulder, and by others. The effect of the stretching is doubtless to break through the hypertrophied and condensed neurilemma and interfascicular areolai- tissue, and thus to relieve the nerve-trunks of undue pressure. NEUBOMA. By Ueiiroina is meant a tumoiu’ comiected with a nerve (see also p. 758). This timiour may vary from the size of a millet-seed to that of a melon ; it is usually sohd and composed of fibrous tissue ; but when it attains a large buUc, a ■cavity may form in it, containing a yellowish or brownish serous-looking fluid, apparently owing to the disintegration of the central portions of the mass. In shape it is usually oval or oblong, the long axis corresponding to the course of the nerve (Fig. 330) ; it grows slowly, and is movable transversely, but not in the direction of the nervous trmik on which it is seated; it has no a]5pearance of malignancy, and, however large it becomes, it never contracts adhesions to the integument nor involves its structure. jSTeiu’oma com- monly only affects the nerves of the cerebro-spinal system ; but Berard has met with one case of the disease on a R'ane’- home nerve. The nerves of special sense are but very rarely the seat of this disease. Indeed, the only recorded ■case Avith which I am acquainted of a nemoma connected with one of these nerves, is one described by Lidell of New York, of a nemnma of the optic nerve filling up the orbit, flattening and in-otruding the eye, and extirpated together with the contents of the orbit by that Surgeon. Most commonly the tumoin is single, and then is usually attended with very severe lancinating or neuralgic pain, which extends, howeA’er, only to the parts below the tiunour, and is commonly paroxysmal. This pain is evi- •dently owing to the stretching of the nervous twigs as they pass along the convexity of the growth. When single and painful, the tumour sometimes goes by the name of the Fainful SuTjcutaiieo'us Tubercle, though the name is also applied to another form of tumour (see — Neuroma p- 7o2). It is then usually met with fr-om the size of ouUver^ a pins head to that of a cherry-stone, commonly seated upon the limbs ^d most fr'cquently in connection Avith one of the nerves of the lower cx- lemity : but it may be situated upon the arm, the trunk, or CA^en on the scrotum and cheek, where, hoAvever, it is not so commonly met Avith A^hercA'cr a single neuroma occurs, it is acutely and intolerably painful on being touched and IS usually tender as well. It is a very remarkable fact that, though ucuro- 3 M 2