FRACTURES. 352 which powerful muscles arc inserted. This is especially the case with the patella and some of the bony prominences, such as the acromion, which are broken in the same way that a tendon is ruptured—^by the violent contraction of the muscles attached to them tearing them asimder. It is not often that the long bones are so fractured ; but the hmnerus has been broken by a person striking at but not hitting another, or by suddenly thro^ving out the arm to seize some- thing that was faUing ; and the clavicle has been firactured by a rider giving his horse a back-handed blow. In these cases, however, muscular action may not have been the sole cause, the weight of the limb also tending to fractm-e the bone. Those bones that do not afford attachment to any powerful muscles, as the cranial, for instance, caimot be fractured in this way. Predisposing Causes.—These are numerous and varied. Some bones are especially liable to be broken in consequence of their servimj as 'points of supyport. Thus, when a person falls upon the hand, the shock is transmitted fr-om the wrist-joint through the radius, humerus, and cla-vdcle, to the trunk; the radius and clavicle, being the weaker bones, are then espe- cially liable to be fr-actm-ed. So again, the situation of a bone, irrespectively of any other cu’cumstance, may predispose it to fracture ; the prominent posi- tion of the nasal bones, and the exposed situation of the acromion, render these parts peculiarly hable to this injury. The shape of some bones disposes them to fr’actm’e ; thus, a long bone is necessarily more readily broken than a short and thick one ; hence fractures of the tibia and femur from falls on the feet are more common than of the os calcis. Certain parts of lone are more commonly fractm-ed than others. Those parts especially into which powerful muscles are inserted, or that are in exposed situations, and hence liable to injury, or have to receive the weight of the fallen body, are often broken. Hence the acromion, the olecranon, and the neck of the femur, are commonly fractured. Age exercises considerable influence, not only on the general occmrence of fr-acture, but on the peculiar habihty of certain bones. Though fractines may occur at aU ages, even in intra-uterine life (Chaussier has dissected a foetus that had 113 fractines), yet bone, being elastic and cartilaginous in early age, is less readily broken than when it has become brittle and earthy, as in advanced life. In children, fractures most commonly occin at the point of junc- tion between the shaft and epiphysis, where ossification has not as yet become perfect. This separation of the epiphysis in children, the detachment as it were of the terminal points of ossification, occm’s chiefly at the lower ends of the humerus and femin, sometimes in the radius and other long bones. As ap advances, the compact tissue of the shaft becomes denser and harder, the cancellous structine of the extremities more dilated and looser; hence fr-actm-e of the neck of the femur is especiaUy common in old people. In yoimg persons also, the bone is usnally simply broken tonsTeisely, but at a more adranccd period of life are generally oblique, and often comminuted, in adults they also more commonly extend into jomts than when oecmim^ i early age. From statistical tables , “L cr , o Flowei? it appears that below fire years of age the liability of the " fracture is equal. After five, the males steadily increase m habihty iq to middle life. After forty-five, the number of fractures m females exceeds that