ACUPJiESSURE AND LIGATURE COURARED. 299 to adhere by direct compression ? In all probability the latter result is the only one obtained ; a coagulum forming by the stasis of the blood between the point compressed and the nearest collateral branch. This point is one of importance ; for there can be little doubt that one of the safeguards after the ligature is this division of the inner coats of the artery, the consequence of which is the effusion of a plastic plug Muthiu the vessel, by which it is more effectually sealed than it can be by mere cohesion of its sides and the formation of a blood- coagulum. The time during wdiich the needle should bo left in will vary with the size of the artery. As a general rule, it should bo from thirty to sixty hour’s according to the size of the vessel. The needle must not be left in too long, lest iiTitation be set up, and ulceration induced along its track. Acupressure and Iiigature compared.—That arterial harmoiThage may be effectually controlled by acupressure in many cases, is undoubted. This fact has long been familiar to Siu’geons in the oj)eration for hare-lip, in which the bleeding from the coronary artery is restrained by the pin that is passed across to imitc the opposite sides of the cleft, and it has of late years been abinidantly proved in the case of the largest arteries di'vided in amputations. But, though by means of acupressure arterial htemorrhage may undoubtedly be controlled, the real question which has still to be answered is, whether we are justified in substituting this means for the ligature in surgical practice. When we reflect on the ease and certainty with which the most furious haemor- rhage from the largest artery can be at once and permanently arrested, by the tying of the mouth of the bleeding vessel with a silken thread—the inestimable advantage which the hgatm’e has been and is to Surgeons, in enabling them to cany the knife with safety into regions where its presence Would otherwise be fatal—we should not lightly, and on insufficient evidence, throw aside a means of such tried utility for one that is of more doubtful value. And few practical Surgeons null probably discard the thi-ead for the needle in the arrest of arterial luemoiThage, unless the latter can be proved to be more certain and more safe than the former. Sir James Simpson, who pressed the subject of acupressin’e upon the atten- tion of Surgeons with an amount of zeal, of learning, and experimental research, which is indeed to be admired, advanced a ■\nriety of arguments in favbiu* of aiTesting arterial htemorrhage by the needle rather than by the ligature. These may briefly be summed up as follows. The gi’eat object of every Surgeon is to heal operation-wounds by the first intention. A V serious and fatal obstacle to this method of healing is the use of the ligature. The ligature acts injuriously in two ways : 1, each thread acts as a seton and sets up a^ line of suppuration along its track ; 2, the cut end of the artery included in and projecting beyond its noose forms a slough which increases e si;ppnrative action, both by undergoing a process of disintegration and by noting as a foreign body in the Avound. Complete healing of a Avound to Avhich n igatiu-e has been applied cannot, therefore, possibly take place until after the sepal ation of the ligature and the section of the included arterial tube. lese evils are entirely ol)viated, and union by the first intention is secured.