VARIETIES OF ULCER. 171 effect unless the pressure of the eoluinii of blood in the dilated vessels be taken off the part. This may be done by means of a well-applied bandage, made of elastic material, or a laced or clastic stocking applied to the leg, so as to keep up imifprm prcssiu-e upon the distended vessels. In some ■cases, the length of the column of blood may be broken by the application of ii vidcanised India-rubber band below the knee. In many cases, the cicatrisa- tion of the ulcer cannot be brought about in this way ; or, if the ulcer heal, it constantly breaks open again : or ha^moiThage may occur from a ruj)tured vein upon its surfece. Other means, which -will be described in a future •chapter, must then be taken for the permanent occlusion of the varicose vessels. As this procedine, however, is attended by some danger from the •occasional induction of phlebitis or erysipelas, it should not be had recoinse to unless the existence of one or other of the conditions just mentioned urgently •calls for it. Haemorrhagic Ulcer.—This is a dark piu-plish-looking sore, which occiu's in women suffering from amenorrhoea, and has a special tendency to ooze blood about the menstrual periods, whence its name. It usually partakes of the character of the im'table ulcer. Treatment. The htemoiThagic ulcer requires to be treated by constitu- tional means, having for their object the improvement of the patient’s general health ; with this view, the preparations of iron and of aloes are especially nsefid. Ulcers on IKCucous IVEembranes.—Various forms of ulcers occur upon the mucous membrane of the thi'oat, rectum, and genital organs. As these, how- ever, are commonly specific, they will be hereafter described. VTien ulcers of the mucous membrane are not of a specific character they present the general appearances characteristic of the cutaneous healthy, niflamed, or weak varieties, and require the topical applications which have been described as suited to these conditions ; though generally they will demand the free employment of caustics, especially of the nitrate of silver.