local treatment of cancer. VOL. I. Q 8oi wliich opiates may bo ach'aiitageoiisly added with a view of lessening the Curative Local Treatment of eancer embraces three methods, viz. : destruction by caustics ; absorption by pressure ; and removal by the knife. All these local means are employed on one principle ; viz., on the supposition that the cancerous tumour which it is proposed to destroy, to absorb, or to extirpate, is primaiily a local disease : that, if this local malady can be removed sutticiently early, constitutional infection may be prevented ; and that, even if this have to some extent taken place, fatal contamination of the system may be retarded by the removal of the local source of that constitutional infection. The great objection that has been urged against operating in this disease is, that cancer being assimied to bo from the first a constitutional affection, it is useless to remove the local tumour, leaving the constitutional vice um’eheved. If this objection Avere tenable, it would apply to the removal of cancers in any Avay, and Avould have as much force against removing cancerous growth by caustic, by pressiu-e, or by congelation, as against extirpating them by the simpler and speedier means of the knife, and in fact must lead to the conclusion that none but local palliatives are proper in this disease. For such an argument as this to have any value, it must first be shmni that cancer is ahvays ah origm& a disease depending on the actual presence in the blood of a certain morbid material, and that it is not in many cases primarily local, in so far that any tendency to the formation of cancer has strictly limited its action to the part, where we find the cancer developed. The arguments which have ah’eady been adduced, however, and the results of experience, appear to me to be conclusive- as to caneer being, for aU surgical piu’poses, primarily a local disease, and only beeoming constitutional secondarily by contamination of the blood and absorp- tion into the system, and consequently to justify operation for the removal of cancerous tumours in suitable cases. Caustics.—The employment of caustics for the destruction of cancers has,, in all ages and countries, been resorted to by empirics, who profess to remove- tumours of a malignant nature, by secret remedies, less painful and more effec- tual than the knife. As their application, to use Yelpeau’s expression, requires neither a knowledge of anatomy nor of operative surgery, these remedies have- always been popular Avith many who have neither the kncAA-dedge nor the skill to use the knife. In this country, hoAvever, they have never enjoyed any A'ery extended reputation ; and in fact they have, perhaps, not been legitimately employed to the extent that they deseiwe, especially in ulcerated and reciuTent cancers, or in those so situated on the skin and muco-cutaneous surfaces as not to admit of being very readily or safely extirjpated by operation. The great objection to the use of caustics has been the scAmity and the con- tinuance of the pain induced by them, Avhich lasts not only for hoiu’s, but for- days—more intense and prolonged than any occasioned by the knife ; and as it is usually necessary, in order to destroy effectually the morbid groAvth, to repeat the application of the caustic several times, the suflPering is often greater than the most resolute patient can submit to. The chief argument in favour of the use of caustics is the statement, that cancers thus destroyed are less liable to reciu' than when extiiiAatcd by the: