CONTRACTION OF CICATRICES. 259 of equal parts of linscccl-oil and lime-water, to which, a small quantity of spirits of tuipentine might be added, has appeared to agree better than any- thing else : and in others cotton-wadding answer's admirably. Whatever local application be adopted, I hold it to be of the utmost importance in the early stages of the burn to change the dressings as seldom as possible ; not, indeed, until they have been loosened, or rendered offensive by the imbibition of the discharges. Every fresh dressing causes the patient very severe pain, jiroduccs depression, and certainly retards materially the progress of the case. Prevention and Kemoval of Contraction.—As cicatrisation advances, the exuberant groAvth of granulations should bo carefully repressed l)y the Fig. 98.—Contraction of Elbow from Cicatrix of Bum of Foiu-tli Degree. Fig. 99.—Contraction of Tliuml) from Bum of Fourth Degree. free use of nitrate of silver ; and the part must be fixed in a proper position by means of bandages, splints, and mechanical contrivances, specially adapted to counteract the tendency to contraction of the cicatrix, and the consequent deformity. This is especially neces- sary in biu’us about the neck, where the chin is liable to be drawn down on the sternum ; and in bums at the inside of limbs or the flexiu-es of ... ™re especiaUy the elbow, where coii- “Pt to ensue. (Kg. 08.) In bad bums of the hands, the fingers may be draAvn into and fixed upon the pahn of the hand, ma'y become webbed together, or may be dislocated and fixed inunovably against the dorsum. The accompanying woodcuts arc good illustrations of the bad effects of bums upon the hands. In Fig. 100 the little finger has been di.slocated backwards, and fixed iqDon the dorsum. In Figs. 101 and 102, the tAvo hands were frightfully deformed — the fingers being partly con- siuned, and partly Avebbed and matted together by dense cicatricial tissues. 1 his accident occuiTed in consequence of the night-shirt taking fire. The patient tried to extricate himself by draAving the biu'ning gai-mcut over his head, but, the AATistbands lieing buttoned, he could not AA-ithebaw the hands, .Avhich Avere frightfully Ijurnt. Fig. DO represents the thumb di'aAvu into such s 2