DISLOCATION ON THE PUBIC BONE. 5°5 cither inverted or everted—which is ascribed by Bigelow to the want of firm bearing for the trochanter in the perinajum (Fig. 235). Fig. 234.—Dislocation directly downwards. (Bigelow.) Fig. 235.—Dislocation downwards and Inwards towards PeriniBUin. (Bigelow.) In the Reduction by Manipulation of these two rare forms of dislocation downwards, the thigh is to be bent and its head guided towards the socket. Dm’ing this, the dislocation is sometimes converted into one of the thyroid or sciatic variety. In the dislocations downwards, vertical traction and slight inward rotation may be used ; in the dislocations downwards and outwards, traction upwards and inwards, with abduction and rotation outwards ; in the displacement downwards and inwards, traction upwards and outwards. Probably allied to these forms of dislocation is that in which the head of the bone has been found thrown downwards and backwards into the lesser sciatic notch. In these cases there is considerable shortening, but the position of the limb appears to vary. In an instance that occurred to Keate, the limb was abducted and the toes tinned outwards. In a case reported by Wormald, the limb was turned inwards. Although the limb is described as shortened in these cases, Warren has related a case in which it was elongated. 3. Dislocation upwards.—The dislocation upwards on the Pubic Bone presents very unequivocal signs. The hip is flattened ; the head of the bone can be distinctly felt lying in its new situation above Poupart’s hgament, to the outer side of the femoral vessels, where it may be made to roU. by rotating the limb. The thigh and knee are slightly flexed, rotated outwards, and abducted ; the limb, which is separated from its feUoiv, is shortened to the extent of an inch (Figs. 236, 237). The Cause of this dislocation is either direct violence applied to the back of the thigh whilst the hmb is abducted ; or it arises from the patient making a false step in walking, and suddenly throwing his body backAvards in order to avoid a fall, twisting and displacing the limb. The Reduction by Manipulation should be efiected by drawing the limb doAvnwards, and at the same time raising it up so as to flex it gradually on the abdomen as the head of the femur becomes disentangled from its position. It may then be rotated inAvards, and the head of the bone thus directed toAvards the acetabulum. With regard to the Reduction by Extension, Sir Astlcy Cooper advises