•'^42 VENEREAL DISEASES. iissumcs a tciulcncy to creep or sj)x*ead over the neiglibouriiig integument, extending in this 'way to a considei’ablc distance dowoi the tbigb, upon tlie abdomen, or over the ilium. Tins creepimj buho is characterised by the peculiar semicircular or horse-shoe shape that the sore assumes, and by its tendency to cicatrise by one margin, whilst it slowly extends by the other; the cicatrix always being thin, blue, and weak, closely resembling that of a bum. Alter a bubo has disappeared, a good deal of indication may bo left in the glands ot the groin, perhaps ivith matting together of the surrounding areolar tissue ; and this induration may continue for years, or even for the remainder of life. The Treatment of bubo consists, in the first instance, in endeavouring to prevent the occurrence of suppuration ; and should pus form, in letting it out, and closing the wound which results. The Preventive Treatment of bubo is of considerable moment. It consists essentially in perfect rest of the part, and the application of leeches and of cold lead poultices. In reference to the appheation of leeches, there is a practical point of considerable importance that rerpiires attention—viz., that the leech- bites may become infected by the chancrous pus, and thus converted into a number of new chancres. This accident is best guarded against by covering the bites with collodion and plaster. If there be not much inflammatory action about the bubo, but this be indolent and chronic,, the application of blisters or disentient plasters, or of the tinctme of iodine, is occasionally useful. A plan of discutient treatment recommended by a French army-singeon, Malplaquet, I have foimd very ser- Aiceable in several cases. It consists in applying a blister about as large as a half-cromi over the sm’face of the inflamed gland, and dressing the raw surface produced by it with a piece of hut soaked in a saturated solution of the per- chloride of merciny for a couple of hours, when a white eschar ivill have formed ; a cold poultice should then be applied, and continued imtil all excited action has gone down. Ifj notwithstanding oin endeavours to prevent suppmation, matter form within or around the gland, as evinced by the swelhng becoming soft, boggy, and inflamed, a free opeiimg should be made by either a horizontal or a vertical incision, whichever will give the readiest outlet to the pus. If the integuments be much thinned, undermined, and of a bluish colom, I prefer making the opening with potassa fusa, as it destroys those unhealthy tissues which would otherwise interfere ivith the cicatrisation of the wound. The cavity that is now exposed presents a chancrous appearance, being irregular and sloughy, noth elevated and angiy red edges. This should be dressed with the aromatic wine and tannin lotion (p. 838). If the character of the sore do not improve, the potassa fusa should be freely applied to its surface and edges, and after the sloughs have separated, the granulations may be dusted ivith red preei- pitate powder ; the cicatrisation will in many cases be much facilitated by the application of a compress with a spica bandage, and by keeping the patient at rest. Not unfrequently the healing of the sore is interfered ivith by the over- hanging of the undermined edges ; these may occasionally be made to retract by being freely rubbed with the nitrate of silver. If this do not succeed, it may be necessary to pare them ofl' with a knife or scissors, or to destroy them