739 SEBACEOUS CYSTIC TUMOURS. cretoiy ducts of a sebaceous follicle. Occasionally a part of the cyst-wall may undergo calcification, and calcareous particles may be found among its con- tents (Fig. 271, b). Some forms of cysts of new formation closely resemble those just described in then- contents and naked-eye appearances, but differ from them in the structm-e of their walls, which is that of true skin. These will be refeired to again imder “ dermoid cysts.” Progress.—The growth of these tumours is often very slow ; but not un- fr-ecpiently, after remaining stationary for years, they increase rather rapidly. The tumoin- itself, though painless, may give rise to uneasy sensations, by compressing nerves in its vicinity j it usually continues to grow slowly, until the patient, being annoyed by its presence, has it removed by operation. If left imtouched, it occasionally, though rarely, happens that the Sebaceous matter, exuding through an aperture on its sm'face, forms a kind of scab or crust, which by a j^rocess of subdeposition becomes conical; and, beino- gradually pushed up from below, at the same time that it assumes by exposure a dark brown colom-, forms an excrescence that looks like a horn, and is iisually considered to be of that character. These “ horns ” have been met with on the head, on the buttock, and in other situations. The accompany- Fig. 272.—Horn on Hose of a Child. Fig. 273.—Ulcerated Encysted Tumour of Scalp. ing drawing (Fig. 272) is taken from a child four years old, brought to me to a^ e its horn removed; a woman also once applied to me with one about an inch an a half long, gvowing from the upper lip. In other cases, these tmnours inflame and suppmate; the skin coveriuo- em becomes adherent and reddened, ulceration takes place, and, if the cyst je sma 1 and dense, it may be throum off by the suppurative action in the sunoundiiig tissues. If it be larger, ulceration of the integuments covering it takes place, and the sebaceous matter is exposed ; this may then putrefv ecome o ffnsive, and break away in unhealthy suppination. In other cases' Lit ° ^ are thi-omi out lated risino-"'! appears to vascularise, becoming irregular and nodu- n '/i ", ''' growths with everted edges, exuding a fetid foul assmSing a sm"- o ‘ cppeaiance, forming at last a sore as large as a saucer (Fig. 273)^ 3 B 2