TUMOUBS. 8o4 Of all those caustics, T should certainly say that the deliquesced chloride of ziuc is the safest and most efficacious, more particularly -when a scin-hous tumour has to be destroyed. When au encephaloid fungus has to l)e attacked, the concentrated sulphuric acid is preferable, omng to its coagulating and hiemostatic properties. When small cancerous sores have to be destroyed, the nitric acid, the arsenical paste, or the chloride of zinc, made into a paste noth flour and morphi<a, may very conveniently be used. Compression is a plan that has been alternately greatly extolled and much depreciated. It v^as fully tried at the Middlesex Hospital, by Young, more than fifty yeai-s ago, and unfavourably reported upon by Sir Charles Bell at that time ; it consequently fell into disuse in this countiy, but was revived by Eecamier in France, and employed larg’ely by him. Although he published a favourable account of this practice, it made but little progress amongst French surgeons; the oifly one who seems to have used it to any extent being Tanchou, who employed a peculiar topical medication conjoined vith it. In this comitry the practice fell into complete oblivion, until J. Amott some years ago invented a mode of employing pressm-e by means of an elastic air-cushion ; since which time it has been often employed with varyina: desTees of success. In employing pressure. Young principally had recourse to plasters and bandages. Eecamier used amadou applied with an elastic roller ; and Tanchou recommended spring-pads, under which small bags or pieces of cotton-wadding impregnated -with various medicinal substances were placed, so as to protect the skin and act upon the tumoiu’. Amott’s plan consisted of pressure exercised by a Macintosh air-bag, held in its place by straps, and pressed upon by a truss- spring, the pressure exercised by which was made to vary from two-and-a- half to twelve or even sixteen pounds. These different plans should not be employed indiscriminately, but may all be of service in particular cases. I have employed them all, but have never found permanent advantage from any of them. The first question that necessarily arises in reference to the emj)loyment of pressme in these cases is, whether it can effect a cure. This it could oifiy be expected to do by producing atrophy, and subsequent absorption, in the strictly local forms of cancer. The only case on record, with any pretension to a conclusive character in this respect, is one related by Walshe in his excellent Treatise on Cancer, of a cure of a tumour of the breast believed to be caucerous, by compression. But even this instance I cannot look upon as by any means conclusive ; for, although no one can entertain a higher oj)inion than I d© of the very remarkable- diagnostic skill possessed by Walshe, yet I think there can be no doubt in the mind of any Siu’geon that it is absolutely impossible to determine in many cases, by any amount of knowledge or skill, the true nature of a chronic tumour of the breast ; and, in fact, the most experienced practitioners fre- quently find, after the removal of the tumour, that it was of a different character from what they had previously anticipated. This difficulty at- taches to Walshe’s case ; and I think that there is no proof that the tiunour of the breast, which underwent absorption under the pressure of Arnott’s ai^paratus, was of a truly cancerous nature, and that it was not a chronic