SYMPTOMS OF RABIES IN DOG. 247 of the disease—depraved appetite. Mad dogs not only devour filth and rubbish of every kind vdth avidity, but even their own excrement—often im- mediately after it has been passed. Indications of this tendency appear early, and arc more than suspicious. “Along with this peculiai-ity of behavioim it is of equal importance to notice that an Mected dog, from the fii’st, snaps at other dogs ivithout provocation. This snappishuess in most dogs is very striking. If a dog previously known to have no such hahit, snaps indiscriminately at the first dog it meets in the yard or in the street, it is probably not safe. “ So far I have had in mind chiefly what is to be observed in dogs tied up or at home. A dog which is at large is also to be recognised as in a dangerous state by its demeanour. A healthy dog in its progress along a street or else- where shows at every step that its attention is awake to the sights and sounds which it encounters. The rabid dog, on the contrary, goes sullenly and im- observantly forwards, and is not diverted by objects obviously likely to attract it. This statement, however, is subject to the important exception akeady refen-ed to, that it is excited both by the sight and sound of an animal of its own species. “ Of the symptoms which accompany the final stage of the disease, the most important and characteristic are those which relate to the organs in which it localises itself—the mouth and throat. Attention is often di’awn to the con- dition of the mouth in ail animal supposed to be healthy, by the observation that it tries to scratch the corners of its mouth, as if attempting to get rid of the ropy mucus which is seen to be discharged from it. In dogs that are tied up, it is noticeable that the bark has entirely lost its ring, and acqiures a pecuhar hoarseness, which can be recognized even by the most unobservant. As the disease progresses the discharge increases, the lower jaw hangs as if paralysed, and the animal has evident difficulty in swaUowing. Along with this_there is often loss of power of the hind hmbs. If now the dog be watched, the pecuharities of behaviom- which have been aheady noticed are seen to present themselves in a much more marked degree than before. It is observed, fii’st, that it is subject to paroxysms of excitement, in which it makes often- repeated efforts to bite or gnaw aU objects (such as woodwork, straw, &c.) within its reach, while at the same time it continues to exhibit the tendency already mentioned to devoiu’ its own excrement; and, secondly, even dining the remissions its excitement is at once renewed by the sight or spund of another dog. “ It may be well to note that the disease ocem’s at all seasons, that the mad dpg continues to recognize its master and to manifest pleasme when kindly spoken to, that it does not shun water, and that in many cases fr'om first to last that ivild fury which is commonly supposed to belong to the disease, is conspicuously absent.” Prognosis.—I am not acquainted with any case of recovery from hydro- phobia, after the disease has fairly set in. It cannot, however, be pronounced to be absolutely and inevitably fatal; for Eadchffe states that, of 109 authen- tic cases, recovery took place in 14. The disease may prove fatal in foin-and- twenty hours, or life may be prolonged for six or seven days ; death generally occurring from the second to the fourth day, apparently fr-om exhaustion.