SECOIS^DARY EFFECTS OF SPINAL CONCUSSION'. sn clearly inflaininatoiy, and are identical with those phenomena that have been described by Ollivicr, Abercrombie, and others, as dependent on chronic meningitis of the coi’d, and snbaente myelitis. One of the most remarkable phenomena attendant upon this class of cases is, that at the time of the occnrrence of the injniy the suflerer is usually quite unconscious that any serious accident has happened to him. The period of the siqoervention of the more serious, persistent, and positive symptoms of spinal lesion will vaiy greatly. Most commonly, after the fii'st and immediate effects of the accident have passed off, there is a period of com- parative ease, and of remission of the symptoms, during which the patient imagines that he will speedily I’egain his health and strength. This period may last for many weeks, possibly for two or three months. Although theie is often this long interval between the time of the occurrence of the accident and the supervention of the more distressing symptoms, it will be found, on close inquiry, that there hcis never heen an interval of complete restoration to health. His friends remark, and he feels that “ he is not the man he was.” He has lost bodily energy, mental capacity, and business aptitude. He looks ill and worn ; often becomes irritable and easily fatigued. He still believes that he has sustained no serious or permanent hurt, and so long as he is at rest, he will feel tolerably well; but any attempt at ordinary exertion of body or mind brings back aU the feehngs or indications of nervous prostration and mitation characteristic of these injiu’es ; and to these vdll gradually be super- added the more serious symptoms which evidently proceed from a chronic disease of the cord and its membranes. After a lapse of several months—from three to six—the patient will find that he is slowly but steadily becoming worse, and he then, perhaps for the first time, becomes aAvare of the serious and deep-seated injmy that his nervous system has sustained. The countenance is usually pallid, sometimes even livid, and has a peculiarly careworn, expressionless look ; the patient generally looking much older than he really is, or than he did before the accident. I have seen, however, instances of flushing of the face. The thoughts are confused. The patient cannot concentrate his ideas so as to cany out a connected line of reasoning ; he attempts to read, but is obliged to lay aside the book or pajDer after a few minutes’ attempt at perusal. All business apititucle is lost; partly from impairment of memory, partly from con- fusion of thought and inability to concentrate ideas for a sufficient length of time. The temper often becomes changed for the worse, the patient being fretful, in’itable, and in some way—difficult perhaps to define, but easily appre- ciated by those around him—altered in character. The sleep is disturbed, restless, and broken. He wakes up in sudden alarm ; di’eams much ; the dreams are distressing and horrible. Ihe head is usually of its natural temperature, but sometimes hot. The patient complains of A'arious uneasy sensations in it; of pain, tension, weight, or throbbing ; of giddiness ; of a confused or strained feeling in it i and fr’e- quently of loud and incessant noises, described as roaring, rushing, ringing, singing, sawing, mmbling, or thundering. These noises vary in intensity at different periods of the day; but, if once they occur, they are ne^•er entirely absent, and are a source of great distress.