3°3 SECOND A li Y H.EMOmUIA GE. inferior th^Toiil arteries, and by tlae vertebral and basikir. When the sub- clavian is tied, the circulation of the upper extremity is can-ied on by the anastomoses between the posterior scapular and suprascapular, and the branches of the axillary artery distributed to the vicinity of the shoulder, and between the intercostals and the long and superior thoracic ; and when the external iliac is tied, the blood is conveyed to the lower limb by the inosculations between the manmiary and lumbar arteries and the epigastric and circumflex ilii, and by those between the obturator, gluteal, and sciatic arteries and the ciremnflex branches of the profunda femoris. Jones pointed out the curious circumstance that, when two anastomosing branches approach one another, they split, before inosculating, into two or three ramuscidi, which by uniting form a circle of anastomoses. Besides this kind of collateral circidation, Mamioir, Porta, and Stifling have noticed vessels rimning directly between the extremities of the obliterated trunk, foi-ming species of ai-terial shoots, springing from the stump of the vessel (Fig. 129). The Change that takes place in the Trunk consists in its conversion into a fibro-ceflidar cord, from the point to which the ligature has been applied to the fii’st large collateral branch below it (Figs. 128 to 130) ; here it becomes pernous again, and, recei-viug the blood poured into it through the different anastomosing chamiels, becomes again subservient to the purposes of circulatioii. Porta and Stifling have shovm that, after a time, down the centre of this fibro- ceflular cord a small tortuous central canal becomes developed, uniting the two distant ends of the dmded artery. This is probably the last change that takes place in the establishment of the collateral circulation. The collateral circulation is occasionally not sufficiently fr-ee to preseiwe the integi-ity or vitality of the parts supplied by it. As a consequence of this, gangrene not uncommoidy results, or the limb may become paralysed or atrophied. This condition is frequently met with in old people, fr-om ossifica- tion and rigidity of the arterial system ; or it may happen as the result of copious hEemorrhage, or of an extensive transverse wound of the limb diwding many of the anastomoshig vessels. It more rarely happens that we find too great fr’eedom of the anastomoses, so as to lead to a faihue of the j)ui’poses for which the ligatm’e has been applied, by the rapid admission of blood into the distal side of the vessel, thus perhaps occasioning secondary hcemorrhage. ACCIDENTS AFTER ARTERIAL OCCLUSION BY SURGICAL MEANS. The accidents that may follow the application of the ligature, the use of acupressm’e, or of compression in any way exercised upon woimded arteries, are SecQndaiy Htemorrhage and Gangi-ene of the Limb. Secoxdaey or Recurrent H.a3MORRHAGE.—By this is meant, bleeding from any cause after the employment of the means above mentioned. This accident may arise hum a variety of circumstances, Avhich may be divided into two great classes :—1. Local Causes, dependent on the Vessel or Ligature ; and 2. Conshlutional Causes, connected Avith some Morbid Condition of the Constitution or of the Blood, in consequence of which those changes Avhich arc necessaiy for occlusion of the artery do not take place. Local Causes.—^ong this class of causes may be mentioned any imper- Jec ion m the apiiUcalwn of the licjalure, needle, or comimss; as, for instance, the