781 ULCERATION' OF SCIRRUUS. These general characters of cancerous gi-orvths present certain imporbmt • g- e nof.nrdiiio- to the form of the disease that is developed. ' ''sfiThus.-The^cirrh or hard cancer, is most commonly met ^^•lth as a 1 Tar.aU ill tlip fomale breast, in various portions of the ahmentaiy piimaiy ep , pylorus, the sigmoid flexm-e of the colon, and the if^h^Z secondari^m the iT.pMc o-hnds It occurs in two forms ; either as a circumscribed mass, 01 inliltiated t the tissue of an organ. In either case it forms a nrcssiUe, and nodulated tumom-, at firet niorable and unconnected avith the Lin, but soon acquiring deep-seated attachments, and implicating t e in egu- inent. It gi-ows slowly, seldom attaining a larger size than an orange. At times painfoss, at others it is painful, aching generally, occasionally with much radiating and shooting pain through it. These sensations vary accoi ding to the part affected, and to the sensibility of the indi\-idual ; the pains are especially severe after the tumour has been handled, and at night are of a lancinating, neuralgic character. The tumour may thus continue in a chi-onic state for a considerable length of time, slowly increasing, gradually extending its deeper prolongations, and implicating the more superficial parts. In some cases, more particularly in elderly people, scirrhus gives rise to atrophy of the oi-o-an in which it is seated, causing wi’inkling and puckering of the sur- rounding skin, which becomes adherent to the tumom’; and the cancer may thus continue in a very chronic state. The ulceration usually takes place by the skin becoming adherent at one point to the tumour, either by dimpling in, being as it were di’awn down towards it, or else by being pushed forwards, stretched, and implicated in one of its more prominent masses ; it then becomes dusky and hvid red, somewhat glazed, and covered by a fine vascular net-work. Softening occiirt. at one point, where a crack or fissure forms ; a clear drop of gummy fluid exudes from this, and dries in a small scab upon the sm’face : this is followed by a somewhat bloody discharge of a thick and glutinous character ; and the small patch of skin from which it issues, becoming undermined, speedily sloughs away, leading a circular ulcer. This gradually enlarges, becoming ragged and sloughy, with craggy everted edges, ha^dng irregular masses arising from its surface, and discharging a fetid sanious pus. The pain increases greatly ; and, the lymphatic glands becoming involved, cachexy is fully developed, and the patient is destroyed by it or by the secondary visceral deposits. In old people, ulceration of scirrhous masses often assumes an extremely chronic ■character, the growth in them not being endued Avith the same A'itality as in the young. The ulcer in these cases is flat, sloughy, of a greyish-green colour, hard and rugged, with puckered edges, and much -wrinkling of the surrounding skin, and exhaling the usual fetid odour. In younger persons, and especially in stout Avomen Avith florid complexions, the disease usually makes rapid progress. So also, if inflammation bo accidentally set up in the neighbouring tissues, cancerous infiltration rapidly takes place in them. I once had under my care an old man Avith a cancerous tumour of the leg, which, after remaining stationary for seven years, became accidentally inflamed, and afterwards increased Avith gi’eat rapidity. Occasionally, but A'ery rarely, scirrhous masses slough out, leaving a large ragged cavity, Avhich may even cicatrise ; and