210 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. Ihe Conalituttonal Condition of the patient is imdouljtedly the main cause of the snpen’cntion of spreading tranmatic gangrene. However severe an injiuy may be, and liowcver certainly it may kill those tissues or those parts of limbs which are directly and immediately exposed to the operation of the external violence, the rapidly spreading foimi of the disease will not supervene unless the constitution be in an unsoimd state ; and this rcmai’k applies necessarily with especial force to its occiuTence after the slighter forms of injury. The supervention of spreading traumatic gangTene will occur in circimistances similar to those which dispose to pyaemia, erysipelas, or sloughing phagedfcna; and, in fact, to the low and difPusc inflammations generally. They consist of imperfect and faidty hygienic conditions, and an impme state of the blood, arising either from long-continued exposure, antecedent to the injiuy, to such conditions, or from chronic disease of the eliminatory organs, more particularly of the kidneys. Defective depuration of the blood, consequent on chronic kidney-disease, is a most fertile cause of this as of the other fomis of gangrene. Indeed, I beheve that the true siueading traumatic gangTene caimot occiu unless the blood be, previoushj to the receipt of the injury, in a depraved and disordered state, the result of the conditions, singly or combmed, above men- tioned. Hospital miasmata, and exposure to faulty hygienic conditions after the receipt of the injiuy, do not appear to me to exercise so marked an influence on the occiurence of this form of gangrene as of the low inflammatoiy diseases of the erysipelatous ty^ie. In fact, the patient is rarely, if ever, exposed to these influences sufficiently long after the occiUTence of the injiuy for them to have much effect on his constitutional condition, had that been in a somid state previously. Spreading traumatic gangrene occius only in recent wounds, and usually manifests itself within the first three days after their occiuTonce, whilst they are stiU in their first stage, and before suppuration has set in. ^Tien once this has occurred, and especially if the ivoiuid be gTanulating, the patient may get erysipelas, or pyiemia, or sloughing phagedama ; but he ndU no longer be susceptible of the spreading form of traumatic gangTene. I cannot, therefore, but look upon this formidable disease as a tndy constitutional affection, depend- ing more upon the state of the patient’s blood at the time of the reception of the injiuy, than upon the severity of that injury, or upon the circumstances to which he has been ex^Dosed immediately after the receipt of it. The S[/mj)ioms are as foUow. The woiuided limb at the seat of injiuy swells, becomes dusky, red, and has a deep-seated, tensive, binning pain. The- swelling, redness, and tension spread upwards, and are speedily followed by a dusky pui-plish tint, by a soft doughy feeling of the parts, and in the course of a few more hoius by a deep blackish-pinqile discoloration, which spreads ‘ uniformly and with great rapidity through all the tissues affected. This is accompanied or immediately followed by emphysematous crackling, due to the presence of gases which are developed by the decomposition of the parts attacked by the gangrene. The changes, which arc of a piitrcfacti'S'e natiuc, first develop themselves in the wound itself, and speedily extend from it to the smToiinding jiarts. That portion of the limb which is below the gangrened part becomes pale, cold, and oedematous. The portion which is above becomes rapidly infiltrated by serous exudation, which runs up the inner side of the limb to the axilla or groin, as the case may be. The part immediately above