STGiVS OF FRACTURE. 355 Fig. 137.—Oblique and Longitudi- nal Fractures. ill the direction of its axis (Fig. 137, V). Longitudinal fracture, or splitting of bone, is not very common in civil practice; but in military practice it is frequent, especially from the action of conical rifle-balls. In such cases, when the shaft is struck and shattered, the splitting of the bone may extend widely in either direction —sometimes into the neighbouring joint (Fig. 85, p. 221), although, as Stromeycr has remarked, it usually stops short of this, terminating at the epiphysis. When the fractiu’e is produced by a blow, which need not be a very severe one, upon the articular end, the bone may be split and the joint opened. The Separation of the Epiphysis of one of the long bones from the shaft, at the line of junction, is an accident that occasionally ocems in childi’en and young people at any period up to that of the completion of the ossification between the parts. Hence it is usually met with mider the age of 21 or 22. This kind of fractiu-e is always transverse. It is apt to simulate a dislocation very closely ; but the diagnosis may be made by finding that the articulation is always intact, and its movements usually free. Union ]jy bone readily takes place. Hot only are the epiphyses of the long bones liable to this separation through the fine of junction, but the same thing may happen to various pro- cesses, as the acromion, olecranon, &c. ; and some osseous structures, as the acetabulum and sternum, are apt under external Uolence to separate into their original component parts. Signs.—Fractm-e may produce pain, and alteration of the bidk of the limb; these may be due either to the laceration of the soft parts by the broken fragments, or to the general injury inflicted upon it. Increase of size is observed in some cases of fr'actiu’e ; the augmented size being due either to the extravasation of blood mto the limb, which often takes place to a very considerable extent, even without the wound of any principal vessel; or to the approximation of the attachments of the muscles by the shortening of the limb. Diminished bulk, or flattening, occims in some cases, in consequence of the weight of the limb drawing the part dovm, and thus lessening natm’al rotundity. Neither pain nor alteration of bulk can be regarded as pathognomonic of fr’actiu'e. The more special and peculiar signs of fr-actm-e are three : 1. A Change in the Shape of the Limb ; 2. Mobility in its Continuity ; and 3. The existence of Grating between the Broken Ends of the Bone. ^1. The Change in the Shape of the Limb, due to the displacement of portions of the broken bone, is perhaps the most important sign of Jfractiu’e ; Jt mam'fests itself by a want of correspondence between the osseous points on opposite sides of the body, by an increase or diminution of the natiu'al curves of the limb, by angidarity, shortening, or swelling. In investigating the existence and extent- of displacement in a case of frac- ture, the Sm’geon should always strip his patient, and compare the correspond- ing points of bone on the opposite sides of the body, and their relative situation to some fixed and easily distinguishable neighbouring prominence on the trunk or injured part of the limb. From this the mcasiu-emcnts may be taken, by A A 2 \