840 VENEREAL EfSEASES. ot time in the system, not declaring itself by any overt manifestation so Ion" as the health continues good ; but, if the patient tall into a debilitated state, even though some yeai-s have elapsed, showing itself by some of its local eftects. Consecutive Symptoms of the Local Contagious Ulcer.—Chancres are not unfrequently followed by a series of affections which may bo termed consecutive, depending as they do upon the primary disease, but being local in their character, and presenting no evidence of constitutional infection. These consecutive symptoms are three in number : viz.. Contraction of the Cicatrix of the Chancre, Bubo, and Warts. Contracted Cicatrices.—Most excoriated chancres are healed without any cicatrix or other trace of them being left; but,] in the phagedienic and the sloughing chancres, there is always loss of substance, often to a considerable extent, and consequently a depressed scar. But in addition to these thicken- ings, one of another kind may take place. The situations of all venereal ulcers should be watched for some time, however readily that sore may have healed ; lest, the syphilitic virus having been introduced with the local irritant, in- duration should commence at the point of contagion, when the time of incu- bation or inactivity of the wus after its introduction has elapsed. Thus, a month or six Aveeks should pass away after the suspicious connection, before the Siu’geon pronounces the patient free of general syphilis. Bubo.—By bubo is meant an inflammatory enlargement of the lymphatic glands which receive the lymphatic vessels supphed to the inoculated surface. A bubo, though generally produced in the gi’oin by absorption of irritating- matter from chancres on the penis, may occur elsewhere ; as, for instance, in the axiUa, in cases of chancre on the finger ; in the submaxillaiy region, if the disease occur on the lip. The enlargements of the inguinal or other lymphatic glands that occur in cases of venereal chancre, are caused by several kinds of irritation. The glands may be irritated by concomitant inflammatory action about the penis, as when balanitis or phimosis is present; or they may be enlarged from the simple excitement of the parts, especially in strumous and debihtated subjects. In these cases the bubo is termed Sympaihelic, and the affection must be considered as a simple irritation and inflammation of the inguinal glands, which may speedily subside under proper antiphlogistic treat- ment of a mild kind, although in many cases suppiu’ation eventually takes place, constituting, in fact, a simple glandular abscess, presenting nothing in any way specific. Indeed, it scarcely ever happens that a chancre has existed for some days without the lymphatic glands in the groin becoming enlarged and somewhat indurated, especially those that lie parallel to Poupart’s ligament, their enlargement being attended with a degree of stiffness and dragging pain. The liability to this iiwitation and inflammation of the glands in the groin is greatly increased by the patient walking about or otherwise exerting himself. But I do not think that causes such as these influence the occuiTence ot the other and more serious affection of the l;^phatic glands ; namely, the virulent iuio, which appears to originate from direct absorption of the chancrous pus, without the interference of any external agency. When once the glands in the gi’oin have become virulently imtated, it is extremely difficult, it not impos- sible, to prevent suppuration fr-om taking place. Usually only one or two glands sup purate, although several may be enlarged ; and very commonly the