TREATMENT BY CAUSTICS. Sis •md then having applied the loop of the chain round its base, to tighten this and effect the’ strangulation by Avorking the handle every ten or hfteen seconds, untd the mass is detached. The resulting wound is small and puckered m, and often lieals with but little trouble. If the mass to be removed be large, two or more (icrascurs may be used at the same time, the chains having been passed through the tissues by means of a needle. The action of the ecraseur differs according to the kind of instrument used. Chassaignac’s original ecraseur, armed with a steel chain, and having a to-and-fro movement, acts like a saw. That which Fig. 314.—Ecraseur applied. is now often employed (vide vol. ii.. Diseases of the Tongue) acts as a simple constrictor ; and its use is therefore less likely to be followed by hmmonhage. This instrument appears to me to be chiefly apphcable to cases in which, as in cancroid ulcer of the tongue, excision is hazardous on account of the haemorrhage attending it, while the hgature is objectionable onaccomit of the foetor and dis- charge resulting from the slow separation of the constricted mass, which sloughs and becomes putrescent. The French Singeons, however, extend the use of the ecrasem’ to many cases in vhich in this country the ligature or the knife is prefeiTed. They suppose that pyaemia is less likely to follow removal by this instrument than by the more ordinary means, purulent absorption less readily occurring while the vessels on the cut sinface are crushed together. Whether this be really so, remains to be proved. Caustics.—In some instances, the disease being so situated, as in some parts •of the face, or in the deeper camties of the body, that it cannot be dissected out, the application of caustics will be useful in procming its removal; but, if these agents be employed, care should be taken that they be freely applied and be sufliciently strong, so as thoroughly to destroy the whole of the morbid textines. Inefficient caustics, such as nitrate of silver, initate and do not destroy the tissues to which they are applied, and in this way do much mischief. Inflam- mation is excited around the cancroid growths, plastic exudation takes place, and this becomes rapidly infiltrated by the abnormal structure, which thus extends with much greater rapidity than would otherwise have been the case. The best caustic preparations are the concentrated sulphinic acid, arsenic, and chloride of zinc paste, fused potassa cum calce, the potassa fusa, the Vienna paste, and the acid nitrate of mercury (vide p. 802). All of these may be applied successfully, though they should not be used indiscriminately. The chloride of zinc and the Viemia paste are most useful when the ulcerated