TREATMENT OF ClIRONIG ABSGESS. i53' allowed to accumulate iu it before each succeeding evacuation, it may gi-adually contract and close. Instead of making the valvular opening in this way, a chi'onic abscess may sometimes be advantageously opened by Tapping with a Trochar and Cannula of moderate size, the instrument being introduced obliquely between the skin and the abscess, and then made to dip doum into the sac. After the Avithch-awal of the cannula, the aperture may be closed as in the former case. There is, however, one disadvantage hi this plan of opening abscesses; that, if the discharge be cirndy or shreddy, it is very apt to block up the cannula or- tube, aud thus to interfere ivith the proper evacuation of the matter. The abscess may be emptied by the Aspirator, the entrance of air being thus effectually prevented. Potassa Fusa, though its application be painful, may be advantageously used for opening those chi’onic abscesses, the skin covering which is much luider- mined, congested, and discoloured. In these cases I commonly employ it with gi'eat advantage. It is also useful in the after-treatment, when much solid plastic matter is left, dissolving this away by exciting inflammation around it,, aud thus preventing the formation of sinuses which are otherwise apt to occiu’. In some forms of abscesses it vdll be found that those processes which are- necessary for the contraction and closure of the cyst, after its contents have- been evacuated, do not readily take place ; and it becomes necessary to have recom-se to other measiu’es, iu order to excite sufficient healthy inflammatory action to bring about the closime of the cyst of the abscess. With this view,, a Seton of two or three threads may very usefully be passed across the cyst by means of a nmvus-needle, or by a long straight needle pushed up through the cannula used for tapping (Fig. 77). It should be left in for a few days, by Fig. 77.—Introduction of Seton into Abscess tlirough Cnnnula. which time healthy inflammation -will be set’ up. In other cases again, after the cyst has been tapped, the red wash or some tincture of iodine should be injected and left in. These methods of exciting inflanmiation are especiallj" meful when the cyst-wall is thin, and of a very chronic character. When the walls are very thick and dense, as sometimes happens iu abscesses of very old standing situated in the neck, an elliptical piece of the anterior portion of the cyst should be dissected out, and the cavity lightly dressed with lint, and allowed to fill by granulation. This plan of treatment is often very successful; and I lave by it cured abscesses in the neck of seven or eight years standino- which have resisted every other plan employed.