SS6 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. encephalitis and its consequences ; or more remotely, by the supervention of paralysis and other ulterior effects of injury of the nervous system. The Cerebral Nerves are occasionally injured at their roots, or torn across and detached from their connexion 'with the brain, in injuries of the head. These nerves may be wounded by the same violence that injimes the brain, as when a bullet traverses the head; or they may be detached from their connexion with the brain in laceration of the cerebral pulp ; oi’, lastly, they may be torn across in fracture of the base of the skull, by the fissure extending across the foramen through which the nerve passes. Thus, or from extravasation of blood into its sheath, blindness may result from injury to the optic nerve at any part of its course ; ptosis, and strabismus in different directions, according as the third, the fourth, or the sixth nerve has been injimed. But the nerve that most commonly suffers is the seventh, which, either in its facial or in its auditory portion or both, is not uncom- monly torn across in fractru’es of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, producing either paralysis of the face or deafness. Injury to the eighth nerve is not common, or rather it is not common for patients long to survive who exhibit evidence of the lesion. I have, however, seen repeated vomitings, with palpitations, and a sense of suffocation continuing for months after apparent injury to the origins of the pneumo-gastiic. In other cases, fr-om lesion to the spinal accessory, spasm of the trapezius and steruo-mastoid muscles, simulating tetanus, may set in. Treatment.—In the treatment of injuries of the brain, little can be done after the system has rallied from the shock, beyond attention to strict antiphlo- gistic treatment, though this need not be of a very active kind. In these cases, indeed, as much should be left to nature as possible, the Smgeon merely removing all sources of in’itation and excitement fr’om his patient, and applying simple local dressings. If any foreign body be lodged vdthin the skull, it must of course be removed, if possible. This may be done if it be situated near the external wound, or fixed in the bone ; but if it have penetrated deeply into the substance of the brain, and have gone completely out of reach, it would be perhaps more dan- gerous to trephine the skidl on the chance of reaching it, or m any other way to 0-0 in search of it, than to leave it where it is. Bullets should always be extracted if they can be found. On this point military Surgeons are agreed. If they enter the skull, and strike against and fractiue the opposite side wi - out escaping, should they be sought for ? I think not. arrey anc e , true, have extracted the baU on the side of the head opposite the point ot entrance But it may not be found there. In a case of suicide to w^ch I u as caUed some years ago, a gentleman had shot himself through the nght temple j "ately'opposite thebvormd, on the left temple, nas a 7=^. stellate ft-aetme ot the skull, over rvhioh the scalp was ^ on this and removed the fragments of bone them ; but in this I was disappointed, and aftei death t lying in the base of the skull, where it had ro ec. ^ i „ infm-iHnn of the Hekma on rmN’otrs CnnKBUi.-In those cases m wM a to brain and dura mater communicates with a rac uic 0 q, bloody sionally found, more particiilorly in children, that a dark bioin. 01 bloo.) 1 !