CAUSES OF ULQERATTON. i6r required to ])roducc its clisintegTation and ulceration. Indeed, if the vitality of a part be sufficiently lowered, it may tall into a state of ulceration vuthout tfio occun-ence of inflammation, or ^vith so slight a degree as to be scarcely appre- ciable: the ulcerative action appearing to arise from disintegTation dependent upon the want of nutrition. Thus, for instance, in scrofula and other diseases in which there is an imperfect nutritive force, as in scurvy or syphilis, a tendency to softening and breaking down of structure, and consequent ulceration, exists ; und this tendency is much increased by the occiuTence of congestive or subacute inflammation. Exciting Causes.—Ulceration may be directly excited in several distinct ways on the cutaneous and the mucous siuffiices. 1. There may be such a degree of aouU local inflavimalion as rapidly to produce molecular death of the part. If the action be not very acute, and the destruction of the tissues not very rapid or extensive, the disorganised matters become mixed with pus, and are discharged in the form of a dirty, brownish, puriform fluid. If the action be more violent than this, complete disintegra- tion may not take place in the affected part, but shreds of the spoilt tisSies continue attached for some time to the ulcerated surface, and give it a very ragged appeai-ance. If the inflammation be more intense, layers of disorgam'sed tissue, constituting “sloughs,” are formed, and remain in contact udth the ulcerated surface, often covering it completely, and extending with considerable raindity into the neighboming healthy structures. In this manner sbme of the foms of phagedenic or sloughing ulcer are formed. 2. Chronic inflammation is perhaps the most common cause of ulceration ihe process of formation of an idcer under this condition has been well described by Billroth. “Let us suppose,” he says, “that we have a chronic inflammation ■ot the skin of the leg, say on the anterior surface of its lower thfr-d. The sldn is traversed by dilated vessels, hence it is redder than normal; it is swoUen ™ Pl^^tic infiltration ; and it is sensitive tJ fhe c ul' ^ are infiltrated, especially in the superficial parts of of thfeeilf development ficiannl^ 1 ^ rete Malpighii also becomes more plentifrd, and its super- the ^lot pass into the normal homy state ; the connective tissim of !t an?nnW gelatinous. Now, slight friction This ^ i-emove the soft, thin, homy layer of the epidermis. the resuiris ^‘^^pigliii 5 new irritation is set up, and cells the lower consists of wandering this stnero fU degenerated and enlarged cutaneous papillae. If at this stage the part were kept at perfect rest, and protected fr-om fether irrita- ulc(‘r Ti-n would be gradually regenerated, and the still superficial iioticfd > • usually the slight superficial wound is too little aufl n 1 ^ T to new initations of various kinds; there are suppuration and the r^ P • exposed inflamed tissue, then of the papilhc the ulcer is frilly foi.’’ ^ o. Ulceration sometimes commences in the crypts or follicles avPipP h mucous surface, some modification of struct! taki^m W-"al tan,, load, to the fonnation of outaat dqil M