225 INFLAMMATION OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. fleshy parts of a limb are perforated by a l)ullefc, the haemorrhage is usually very trifling, the vessels divided being small, and contused rather than cut across. If the whole of a limb bo tom away by a cannon-shot, the arteries of the jagged stump do not bleed, for the same reasons that those of a limb torn away by machinery do not; viz., the contraction and retraction of the ruptured internal and middle coats, and the twisting of the external cellular coat over them. This explanation is disputed by Verneuil, who has described instances where, in severe gim-shot and shell wounds of the leg recpiiring amputation, the arteries had all their coats cut through at the same level, and yet haemor- rhage did not occur. But, though it may be stated as a general rule that gun- shot wounds do not bleed much, yet when a large artery, as the carotid, ihac, or femoral, is cut across, violent and suddenly fatal haemorrhage wdU occur— the vessel bleeding as freely as if divided with the knife. Bullet-wounds of the large and deep ai'teries of the chest and abdomen are almost immediately fatal fr-om haemorrhage. The greater nmnber of those who die on the field of battle perish fr-om this cause. It has often been observed that arteries escape, though lying apparently in the direct track of a ball. In such cases, how^ever, though primai-y haemon-hage do not occur, the liability to secondary haemor- rhage is great, in consequence of the artery which has been contused by the passage of the bullet sloughing at a later period. Gim-shot womids always Inflame, with much Swelling, Infiltration, and Tension; The pain which, at the moment of infliction, may have been but slight, becomes extremely acute when inflammation has set in, o-wing princi- pally to the gi-eat tension. This, indeed, is one of the most remarkable phenomena of gun-shot injury, and, by giving rise to strangulation of the tissues, is often the cause of serious mischief. The inflammation speedily terminates m suppuration, often most profuse and extensive, not only in the tiack of the ball, but vddely diffrised through the neighbom-ing pai'ts. Ajjeriod of great danger in gun-shot wounds is that about which the sloughs begin to separate, usually from the sixth to the twentieth day ; and before this time it is often impossible to ascertain the precise extent of the disorganisation. At this period, also. Consecutive Haemorrhage is very apt to come on, even after very slight exertion, without any warning. Baudens states that this occuiTence is most likely to happen on the sixth day. This may be suddenly latal, and is always more dangerous than the primary hremon-hage, not only on account of the difficulty of arresting it, but because the patient has been already weakened by severe inflannnation and suppiu-ation. Secondary haemoiThage may occin from other causes than the separation of the sloughs and the consequent opening up of a contused or inflamed artery. It may take place from an artery wounded by a spiculum of fr-actined bone ; and fr-om the same cause it may arise at any period until all detached bone is separated and the wound fli-mly cicatrised. Chisholm, of the American Confederate army mentions a case of death by secondary hemorrhage on the 828th day after a gmn-shot fractm-c of the upper third of the thigh, owing to a wound of the emoKd artery by a detached sequestrum. Independently of this daim-er from secondary hemorrhage, the patient, if his limb bo saved, may have to undei-o-o ong and tedious processes of exfoliation of dead bone, and to run the risk of eicun-cnt attacks of erysipelas, hospital gangrene, and visceral mischief ^