uiND ADJACENT FARTS. INJURIES OF THE FACE 6oo llio Tronfmant must always be of an active antiplilogistie character. Blood shonld be freely taken from the arm by venesection, and from the temple by enppino-, the iris being dilated by the instillation of a solution of tlie snliibatc of atropine, of the strength of two grains to an ounce of distilled water ; the patient must be kept in a darkened room, on a strictly anti- phlogistic regimen, and should be put under the infinence of calomel and oijinm as speedily as possible. In this way the inflammation will be sub- dued, the effused blood absorbed, and perhaps vision restored. In some cases,, however, opaque masses and bands of lymph -will be deposited in the ante- rior chamber and the pupillary aperture, preventing more or less completely the entry of light. If the lens be displaced into the posterior chamber, it must be left there ; if into the anterior, it may be extracted through the cornea. Wounds of the Eyeball may be divided into those that are merely super- ficial, and do not penetrate into its chambers ; and those that perforate its; coats. Non-penetrating Wounds are usually inflicted by splinters of iron, or other metallic bodies, which become fixed in the cornea, or between one of the eyelids and the ball. Very painful and troublesome injuries are sometimes- inflicted by scratches of the eyeball with the nails of children. In the Treatment of these superficial injuries, the first point is necessarily to remove any foreign body. If it be fixed on the cornea, as commonly happens,, it may be picked off with the point of a lancet or cataract-needle, or a “ spud ; ” if it be a splinter of froii that has been so lodged, it is well to bear in mind that a small brown stain will be often left after the metalHc spicnlum ha's been taken off; this, however, will disappear in the course of a few days. In order to remove foreign bodies lodged between the ball and the eyelids, the latter' must be everted so that the angle between the palpebral and the ocular con- junctiva may be properly examined. For this pmpose the lower eyelid need only be drawn down, whilst the patient is directed to look up ; but the ever- sion of the upper eyehd requires some skill. It is best effected by laying a probe horizontally across it, immediately above the tarsal cartilage ; the Sm-geon then, taking the eyelashes and ciliary margin lightly between his finger and thiunb, draws down the eyelid at the same time that he everts it by pressing the probe firmly backwards and downwards against the eyeball; the patient shonld then look down in order that the whole of the upper part of the: conjunctiva, where the foreign body will probably be found, may be carefully examined. Penetrating Wounds of the eyeball present great variety ; they are com- monly inflicted by bits of stick, steel-pens, children’s toys, and not mifrequently dining the shooting season by the explosion of faulty percussion-caps, oi the lodg-ment of a stray shot in the eye. In all cases,, these accidents are high y dangerous to vision ; and, when the foreign body lodges, sight is usually peinianently lost. The danger usually arises either from the eye being opened to such an extent that the humours escape, or else that, the ins becoming engaged in a wound in the cornea, a hernial prolapse of it occiu;s. The more remote effects usually arise from inflammation taking paccnitun le ^ o e, so as to produce an opaque cicatrix ot the cornea oi o. t c capsn e o i lens ; or else adhesions may form, stretching across between e ms an