219 G UN-SIIOT WO UNDS. CHAPTER X. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS Of the special varieties of contused and lacerated Avonnds, none are of more interest than the different forms of gun-shot injmy. Though compara- tively rare in chil practice in this conntiy, yet gmi-shot wounds are of suffi- ciently frequent occiuTeuce to render an acquaintance Avith them indispensable to the general Surgeon. To the military Surgeon the study of them is neces- sarily one of peculiar interest and importance ; and to him I Avonld specially recommend the perusal of the works of Pare, Wiseman, Hemien, Guthrie, Larrey, and Stromeyer, and of other Siu'geons who haA-e had imusual opportunities of studying the uatiu-e of these injuries upon the field of battle, and by whom they haA'e been considered AAith all the minuteness of a speciahty, I purpose in the foUoAving observations to confine myself chiefiy to such a general discussion of the subject as is required by the ciAul Siu'geon, Gun-shot injuries constitute a species of contused and lacerated wounds, characterised in some cases by the peculiar apj)earance presented by the coloiu’, shape, and size of the orifice ; and in others by the extensWe injmy inflicted on tissues, both superficial and deep-seated, in consequence of which the wounds may prove rapidly or immediately fatal. If the sufferer siu'viA'e the im- mediate effects of the injmy, high inflammatory action with much pain and tension, together Avith profuse discharge, deep-seated suj)puration, and other serious and A'eiy protracted after-consequences, are apt to supervene. These peculiai’ities haA'e at different times been attributed to the parts being bmiit by the ball, to the ijoisonous nature of projectiles, to the generation of electricity in the bullet, during its passage through the air, or by its Metion against the barrel. All these opinions, hoAA'ever, have been shoAAm to be erroneous ; and every peculiarity presented by these injuries can be accounted for by the bluntness of the contusing body, the rapidity of its motion, and the force with Avhiqh it is dn'A'en. As John Bell has pithily remarked, “ there is a peculiarity, but no^ mystery, in gun-shot AA'ounds.” That the sloughing AA'hich always ocems in the track of a bullet AAmund is due to the bhmtncss of the body Avith which the injury is inflicted, is eA"ident from the fact that sharp splinters of shell haA'e been knoAvn to inflict clean-cut Avounds. Chakactees. Gun-shot Avounds vary greatly according to the Natiu’c of the Projectiles, to the Force Avith Avhich they are driA'en, and to the Direction in Avhich they strike. Nature and Force of Projectile.—Gun-shot in juries of a serious character may be inflicted by u'cajions charged onlg with jwivder. They may arise fi'om the nicre concussion of the explosion ; thus a pistol charged Avith poAAxler, aiiddis- c arged Avuth the muzzle resting against the chest of a man, has been known to ly concussing the heart. In other cases, a portion of"the imexploded