TRAUMATIC AXILLARY ANEURISM 323 : I I only be ascertained by following up the wound, and ligaturing the artery that furnishes the blood. In some cases, however, the state of the parts may be such, that it may be impossible to trace the artery at the depth at which it is situated, or even to expose it in a more superficial situation, as in the stump after amputation at the shoulder-joint. In these circimistanees, the rule of hgaturing an artery at the scat of injm-y may be departed from, and the main trunk should be tied either above or below the claviele ; and the success of this operation has been sufficient to justify om- having recourse to it, rather than exhaust the patient by any prolonged attempts at the ligature of the vessel in the open womid, though I think that this ought fu'st to be attempted. Of 15 cases in which the artery has been ligatincd either above or below the clavicle, for hemorrhage fr-om womids in the axilla or from stiunps, I find that 9 were ciu’ed and 6 died. Although the success is about equal in whichever situation the vessel be tied, I should certainly give the preference to the supraclavicular operation, owing to the greater facihty of its performance, and the comparative absence of col- lateral branches at the seat of ligatm’e. In some cases, however, especially after amputations at the shoulder, the claviele is pushed up at its acromial end, and then the artery might be best reached below the clavicle, imder or thi-ough the pectoral muscles. Traumatic Aneurism in the Axilla is not of unfrequent occuiTencc, arising directly from gun-shot wounds, or fr’om the thrust of a knife, sabre, or other pointed weapon. In some cases the injiny arises from a subcutaneous ruptiu’e of the vessel, the patient stretching out and straining his arm in an attempt to save himself fr’om falling, and feehng a sudden snap in the axilla, which is followed rapidly by the formation of a diffused aneurism. There are several cases on record in which axillary aneurism has resulted from violent attempts made by the Surgeon in the reduction of old-standing dislocations of the head of the humerus. Thus PeUetan mentions a case of this kind, in which the tumoiu, being supposed to be emphysematous, Avas opened, and the patient perished of haemorrhage. Warren relates a case of diflFiised axillary aneurism resulting from rupture of the artery, in consequence of the Surgeon attempting to reduce a dislocation of the humerus by using his foot as a fulcrum in the axilla, but Avithout taking off his boot. Gribson has related thi’ee cases of axillary aneurism following rupture of the ai’tery, in the attempt to reduce old-standing dislocations Avith the pulleys. These cases are of much interest to the Siugeon, as showing the necessity for great caution in the use of poAverfril extenduig force in the reduction of old dis- locations, adhesions having possibly formed betAveen the artery and head of the bone. [ In those cases of diffused traumatic aneurism of the axiUa that arise from I subcutaneous rupture or laceration of the artery, the condition of pai’ts is I essentially the same as in the case of an open wound of the vessel, Avith the ij exception of the absence of any external aperture in the integuments. In these 'I cases a turuour ot considerable size, hard or fluctuating, according to the state ^ 0 coagulation ot its contents, forms with more or less rapidity. IfithaA’e i’ quickly, the artery being torn across, and the blood coagulating as I 'i is effused, it will not present the ordinary aneiuismal signs, but may merely Y 2 i