117 STHENIC INFLAMMATORY FEVER. fgyei.—Inflammatory or Symptomatic Fever, or Pyrexia. Altliongli the blood may pre\doiisly have been in a diseased state, and so have predisposed the patient to the occuiTence of an inflammation, the inflammatory fever is invari- aVtly secondary, being consecutive to the local alfection. It is the true surgical fe\'er, no febrile disturbance occnrring in surgical practice except as a conse- cpience of, and secondaiy to, local disease or injury. This fever appears to 1)0 due primarily to the deterioration of the blood, occasioned by the accumula- tion in it of the products of the rapid waste of the tissues that are the seat of the inflammation, owing to their being poured into it more quickly than they can be eliminated by the diflerent emunctories of the system. The presence, in excessive quantity, of this effete matter in the blood, occasions congestion and disturbance of function of the excretory organs, and is liable to give rise to consecutive inflammations, sometimes of a low type, in various viscera. Inflammatory fever, or pyrexia, presents an infinite variety of forms ; the tjq^e which it assumes being finally dependent, 1st, on the state of the blood ; 2nd, on the condition of the nervous system ; and, 3rd, on the occurrence of certain local or specific symptoms determined by the seat of the inflammation. These varieties in the type of the fever arrange themselves practically into three classes :—1. Sthenic, or typical inflammatory fe^'er; 2. Asthenic, or t}q)hoid fever; 3. Irritative, or nervous fever. In aU these forms of fever there are three distinct stages : those of invasion, exacerbation, and dechne. In practice, the recognition of the type or form that the constitutional fever of inflaromation assumes is of the first consequence. The treatment of the patient, irrespective of the topical means that the special local affection may require, being altogether determined by the particular form that the concomitaut con- stitutional disturbance assumes, it caimot be too sedulously borne in mind that the local signs, “ the redness, swelling, heat, and pain,” do not in themselves comprise all the morbid phenomena of inflammation ; there is always accom- panying constitutional distiu’bance, sometimes preceding or predisposing to the development of the local signs, in all cases modifying their characters, and in' ariably, whether pre-existing or not, increased by the excitation of the local disease. It is the character of this constitutional disturbance or fever that 'will at last detenmne the kind of treatment to be adoj)ted ; and it consequently requires to be closely studied. 1. Sthenic Inflammatory Fever, true iDyrexia, occurs in individuals of ^ healthy constitution, young or middle-aged, in connection with those forms of inflammation that are of an active, acute character, and not unfrequently consequent upon injury. In this form of fever the stage of invasion is very shghtly marked, though it a ways occurs. There are shiverings, with some slight deiu'ession of the nervous system; but these symptoms may be so transient as to escape observation entirely, and speedily terminate in the stage of febrile reaction. In the majority 0 cases, it is not until the constitutional distiufiance has reached this staoc t lat it a,ttracts attention. The skin is now hot and usually dry, and there 13 a rise m the temperature of the body of from 2° to 5° Fahr. The pulse is u 1, bounding or thrilling, and quickened by thirty or forty beats in the minute . w e Its noimal rate. It the tissue or organ affected be a mucous membrane, the n, a glandular stracture, as the testis or mamma, the pulse is compressible.