SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 869 The Treatment of syphilitic disease of bone varies somewhat, according to the form which it assumes, and the pre\-ious management of the patient. In ostitis, the principal reliance should be placed upon the conjoined influence of calomel and opium, provided the patient have not previously been fully mer- curialised. If he have been so, we must rely chiefly upon iodide of potassium. In the more advanced and intractable cases that have resisted all treatment, I have foimd the gi-eatest advantage result from cutting down upon the enlarged, thickened, and tender bone, and by means of a Hey’s saw making a deep cut into it about one and a half or two inches in length parallel to its axis, and do\vn to the medullary canal. By this operation the tension is at once relieved, and the pain effectually and permanently removed. In syphilitic necrosis, the constitutional cachexy demands the piincipal share of attention ; the necrosed bone should be separated as it becomes loose, the local irritation depending on its presence then subsiding. When the bone has fallen into a carious state, iodide of potassium in combination with iron, cod-hver oil, or sarsaparilla, with the mineral acids, vdll improve the tone of the system, and stay the pro- gress of the disease. The ulcerated and exposed bone requires to be dressed with strong stimulants ; the red oxide of mercury, in ointment or powder, is perhaps the best; in some cases, touching the part freely with the acid nitrate of mercury will establish a more healthy action. 7. Besides these various constitutional manifestations of syphihs, tumours of the Muscles and Tendons, depending on this disease, have been described by Bouisson. These consist of nodules of yellow gummy matter, like those described as occuring in the testis ; they form between the muscular fibres from the coimective tissue. The muscles are also often contracted by tough adhesions of the sheaths and insertions through slow inflammation and thickening of the fibrous tissue. When affecting the tendons, these tumours are elongated, and resemble nodes upon them. Their presence is attended with some pain during the contraction of the muscle ; they are usually somewhat globular, and vary in size from a nut to a pigeon’s egg, being accompanied by noctiu’nal pains. They are best treated by the iodide of potassium in large doses. 8. Syphilitic Disease of the Testicle is one of the more advanced con- ditions of the constitutional affection. It commonly occurs as the result of that train of symptoms that consist mainly of squamous affections of the skin, the excavated ulcer of the throat, iritis, and nodes, but usually it does not appear until these different manifestations of constitutional syphilis have, each in its turn, passed away ; the patient, indeed, appearing to have recovered from all disease, and being otherwise in good health. Commonly the exciting cause of the disease may be a blow, a squeeze, the occurrence of gonorrheal epididymitis, or some other local cause. The testis then gradually enlarges, until it attains the size of a tiukey’s egg, or even larger, being ovoid in shape, hea^7, and smooth, not painful except by its weight, which causes dragging and uneasy sensations in the cord and loins. This disease is very commonly accompanied by a small hydrocele, constituting, indeed, a hydro-sarcocele. Most frequently only one testis is affected ; very rarely both are diseased. The affec- tion continues to increase, giving rise to uneasiness from its size and weight, Imt IS not followed by suppuration or other inconvenience.