5.^2 VENEREAL DISEASES. syphiiis. This chauere, which presents distinctive ohai-acters, wiU he found desenbed at i m,c bl . arc the '^’arietics, that they have been looked upon by some Surgeons as affording ovidei\ce of distinct diseases proceeding from different poisons. This doctrine, however, is entirely erroneous; the varieties in their appearance depend on scat, constitution, and other accidental circiunstances. A chancre, then, is a specific venereal sore or ulcer, originating invariably from contagion, and capable of jn-opagation to other parts of the same or of different individuals by inoculation. Like all other ulcers, a chancre presents two distinct periods : the first, in which it is either spreading or stationary, in which alone it is specific, and which may be of almost indefinite diu’ation ; and the second, in which it has commenced to gvanulate, and a process of repair is set up in it.* Specific Nature.—Ricord has made the important observation that, if the pus from a chancre, diming its first period, be inoculated into any part of the surface of the body, it will invariably produce another specific venereal sore or chancre ; and that no pus that is not chancrous can, under any circumstances, occasion the specific venereal ulcer. This inoculable ulcer is always in its effects a local disease, being confined to a specific sore ; of which the furthest complications are repetition of the sore wherever its discharge invades an un- protected surface, and the occasional irritation of the neighboiu’ing lymphatic glands to inflammation and abscess. OniGiiT AND Progress.—A chancre is necessarily generally contracted in impure sexual intercom’se "with a person afieady contaminated by the disease, by the direct contact of the healthy with a previously diseased sin-face. When a chancre is caught in connection, it usually commences with a small- excoria- tion, which appears to hai^e been directly inoculated mth the specific poison. In other cases, though more rarely, it may be seen at fii'st in the shape of a small pointed pustule, which speedily breaks, leaving an ulcer of a specific character in its site. Very generally, however, this pustule escapes observation, and the disease is presented in the first instance as an ulcer. The chancrous ulcer, whatever form it assumes, seldom makes its appearance until a few days (five or six) after connection. In some cases, however, I have observed it, evidently from the infection of a fissm-e or crack, on the day following impiu-e intercourse ; and occasionally, in rare mstanees, its appearance may be delayed a few days longer than that time which has been mentioned. Chanefes are occasionally contracted in various iiTegular ways. Thus they may occur on the fingers of Surgeons or accoucheiu's from dressing venereal sores, or fr-om attending diseased ivomen dm-ing labour. In these instances, liowever, the consequences of contagion are nearly always of another kind ; namely, the inoculation of constitutional syphilis, not the merely local ulcer. In other cases, the disorder is contracted from the contact of filthy clothes or dirty utensils vdth the person ; and not imcommonly, it is said, chancres are contracted at public water-closets. Although the latter mode of infection is not impossible, it should be received with doubt, as it is an explanation not imcommonly adopted by those who desire to account foi the consequences of an act of immorality, in a ivay that docs not expose them to reproof. , Whatever be the appearances presented by a chancre, there can no longer be * The term Chancre is also applied to the ulcer which is