923 DISEASES OF VEINS. CHAPTEE XL. DISEASES OF VEINS. PHLEBITIS. Inflammation of the Veins, originally studied by Hunter, has in later years attracted the attention of many distinguished Continental and British pathologists, amongst Avhom may be especially mentioned Breschet, Velpeau, Cruveilhier, Amott, Henry Lee, and Tessier. Phlebitis is of two kinds. Idiopathic and Traumatic. Idiopathic phlebitis will occur, independently of any external exciting cause, or perhaps from ex- posure to wet and cold, in one of the large yeins, almost invariably those of the lower extremity—the saphena, popliteal, femoral, or ihac. It most usually assumes the adhesive form ; and is most commonly met with in persons of gouty constitution. Traumatic phlebitis is commonly excited by the wound of veins, as in operations, venesection, and injiu’ies of various kinds; or it may resnlt from their contusion, or the application of ligatm’es to them ; and it is especially predisposed to by a previously unhealthy condition of the blood, by epidemic constitution, and by season—in fact, by those influences that dispose generally to the low and diffused forms of inflammation. It is sometimes adhesive, but not unfrequently diffuse, and is highly dangerous, being often the forerunner and the exciting cause of pysemia. To this variety of phlebitis may be referred the ordinary phlegmasia dolens and white leg of parturient women. Pathology.—When a vein is inflamed, important changes occur both in the coats of the vessel and in the contained blood. The coats generally become thicker, the outer one especially being vascular and infiltrated; the inner coat becomes softened, pulpy, and usually more or less stained of a dark-red or purple hue by the colouring matter of the blood. The blood in the inflamed vessel coagulates, and adheres to its sides ; this tendency to coagulation and adhesion being increased by the effusion of lymph from the wall of the vessel. This plugging of the vein appears to be due to two distinct causes, which may, however, be associated—one being inflammatory, the other embolic. When a vein has become primarily inflamed, a thin membranous layer of lymph is deposited upon its interior, closely attached to the lining membrane of the vessel; this thin expansion of exudative lymph attracts the fibrine of