i82 constitutional EFFECTS OF INJURY. icactioii conics on, as tlie additional injury inflicted by the operation would increase the depression under wliich the patient is suffering. In some cases, however, the presence of a crushed limb appears to prolong the shock, and thus prevent the patient from rallying, notwithstanding the admim'stration of stimulants. In these circumstances the Singeon would be justified in operating before reaction came on. Here the administration of cliloroform in moderate quantity is extremely beneficial : it exercises a sustaining influence, not only by acting as a stimulant to the nervous system, but by preventing the pain and dread of the operation from still further depressing the iltal energies. In these cases of long-continued shock, great care is requned in ascertaining that there is no internal injiuy giving rise to the depression, but that the shock is really dependent upon the mangled state of the limb. After the immediate effects of the shock have entirely passed away, we must adopt means to prevent the remote consequences. With this view—if the patient can bear it—blood-letting is often of essential sendee, and is, I think, far too much neglected at the present day. In addition to this, the patient’s diet and habits of life should be carefrilly regulated, over-stimidation being especially avoided ; his bowels should be kept frnely open, and his general health attended to. TRAUMATIC FEVER. After the immediate effects of shock have passed off, the reaction wliich ensues may not pass the limits of health. In other cases however, and also in instances where the shock may have been but slight, a general febrile state arises. This febrile condition, followhig injmies and sm’gical operations, has been ably investigated and described in late years, especially by Bilh’oth, who distinguishes between the true traumatic fevm-, occiuTing at an early period after the receipt of the injiuy, and inflammatory secondary fever, the result of the supervention of inflammation in the 'vicinity of the woiuid. Traumatic Fever is, according to BiUi’oth, the result of the absorption of decomiiosed materials fr’om the siuface of the wound. It generally commences on the second day, and, after increasing rapidly, remains (vith remissions) at nearly the same height for nine days, and then ceases. The temperatiue may rise to 102° or even 104° Fahr. The pulse is generally frequent in proportion to the temperatiue. The decline or defervescence of the fever is sometimes rapid, occuning in a period varying from twenty-foiu to thirty-six hours ; sometimes it is slow, and in these cases Billroth has noticed it to bo attended liy ei'ening exacerbations. Inflammatory Fever usually ai’ises fr'om inflammation of the parts in the neighbourhood of the woiuid, and may be the result of the slow throwing off of destroyed tissues, as fascia or tendon, or of the presence of foreign bodies. It may also be produced by retained secretions in closed wounds, or by reten- tion of the faeces and urine, or by consecutive inflammation of other organs and tissues. It may occur when there ha've been no ajipreciable symptoms of traumatic fever ; or it may follow the traumatic fever. Its course, variations, and treatment have been already described in speaking of the febrile conditions consecutive on inflammation {see Chapter IV.).