787 CAUSES OF CANCER. complexion, robust habit of body, with every aspect of health and sign of ^^^Thitlf we fail to recognise by outward signs a constitutional tendency to cancer, we cannot doubt that its development is connected with a hereditary tendency, and is influenced by age. The Jieredilariupss of cancer haS been established beyond a doubt. V elpcau states, as the result of his researches, that it is traceable hereditarily in one- third of the cases. Paget finds that amongst hospital patients the hereditari- ness amounts to about 1 in G, but amongst private patients, whose family histories are better known, it is found to bo hereditary in 1 in 3 ; thus agree- ! ing with Velpeau’s estimate. I In this respect cancer stands very much in the same category as many other j tumours, and, as will be shown more fully when we come to discuss the com- plicated and very difficult question of the origin of cancer, hereditariness must not be taken as synonymous with the constitutionalism of cancer or any other disease. A strictly local tendency, whether to shape of feature, deformity of body, or I purely local tumour, as wart, ganglion, or hpoma, may be transmitted as readily as a constitutional predisposition to any given disease. Hence, in saying that cancer is hereditary in one-third of the cases, it is not necessarily implied that it is constitutional in them, but simply that there is a tendency in a certain number of individuals to transmit the disposition to the disease to their offspring, just as they may transmit a pecuharity of feature, a tendency to premature baldness, or to a fatty tumour. Admitting the hereditary nature of cancer to the fullest extent, however, it still leaves two- thirds of the cases imaccounted for. Affe exercises a marked influence on the occim’ence of cancer ; and its influence is marked in two ways :—1. In the absolute frequency of the occur- rence of cancer; and 2, in the relative frequency with which it develops in different organs at different periods of life, and in the different forms that it assumes. Although cancer is undoubtedly rare in early life, yet it may possibly be a congenital affection. It may occur at all periods of hfe from the earliest ages ; and will evince itself in persons from eighty to ninety years of age. According' to Walshe, the mortality from cancer goes on steadily increasing till the eightieth year ; hence the popular belief, that the middle period of life is most obnoxious to it, would appear to bo an erroneous one. Age, however, influences the liability to cancer in special organs. Thus malignant tumour of the eye and of the bones frequently occurs in children; of the testis, not uncommonly, in young adults; whilst, in the female, Sibley states that the average age of patients with uterine cancer is forty-throe, and Avith mammary, forty- eight years. All forms of cancer arc not, hoAvever, met with in equal frequency at all ages ; the encephaloid being the most common in the young, and scirrhus in the middle-aged and elderly. The colloid A’ariety rarely occims before the age of thirty.* complete revision. No reiiance onii Im placed on those which were tmimnti wlrnl, *+ ' *’''** rapidly-growing sareomata iVuni true cancers ThLe hut certainly not to b'cncrally which nm a malignant conrse, 3 E 2