278 ARIUCST OF ARTERIAL IREMORRHAGE. by the hands of an assistant may be done in the lower extremity by press- ing the femoral artery against the brim of the pnlhc bone, and in the upper extremity by compressing the subclavian against the first rib, or the brachial against the shaft of the hnmei’us. The pressure should Ije made by grasping the limb with one hand in such a way that the thumb bears upon the artery, and jn'esses it directly against the subjacent bone. If the limb be large, or if long- continued pressiu’c be required, the thmub of the other hand should be firmly applied upon that Avhich is already compressing the vessel (Fig, 5, page 3o). In some cases, especially when the subclavian or external iliac requires to be compressed, the handle of a large key, or the end of a desk seal, covered with leather, will be found the most convenient instrument for applying the pressure. In particular and exceptional mstances, where the artery has become un- usually deeply seated—as, for instance, where the clavicle has been pushed up above the subclavian by an anemismal tiimoiu’—and when ordinary means fail irr effecting a secure compressiorr of the vessel, a very effectual mode of con- trolliirg the flow of blood through it has been adopted by Syme. This consists irr making arr incision thi’ough the skin and superficial fascia over the artery, so that the fingers of the assistant may be brought to bear almost dhectly rrpon the vessel, which may thus be seciuely and effectually compressed. The use of the elastic barrd, or Esmarch’s bloodless method, has beerr described and figrrred at p. 29. Irr most cases, however, in which temporary compression of the ai’tery is rcqrrired, the Tourniquet shorrld be employed. It is far safer to trust to this iustrrrmerrt, tharr to the harrds of arr assistant, however steady and strong. "l^Trerr the tourrriquet is applied with a sufficierrt degnee of tightrress, the whole circrrlatiorr through the limb may be completely an’ested. This can rrever be dorre by the compressiorr of the mam trrurk alorre, the collateral arrd minor vessels corrveyirrg blood irrto the limb irrdeperrderrtly of it. Therr again, if the operatiorr be urrexpectedly jrrotracted from any cause, the firrgers of an assistant may tire or stiffen ; and, the steadiness of their pressm’e becoming relaxed, hremoiThage may ensue. For these reasorrs, Srugeons almost irr- variably employ the tommiquet irr amprrtations ; and even Liston, who at orre period of his earner discarded this instrument, commonly emjrloyed it druing the latter years of his life. In applying the tormriquet, care should be taken not to screw it up irntil the very momerrt wherr the compression is reqrrired, aird then to do so qrrrckly arrd with considerable force, lest venous congestion of the limb take place, owing to the veins being compressed before the circrrlatiorr irr the arteries is annsted. It is difficult to say how long complete arrest of the circrrlatiorr throrrgh a limb may be maintairred by the elastic band or the tourniquet without danger of gangTene. It must necessarily vary according to age. As a gerreral rule, I should say that Esmarch’s method might be used for about orre horrr, and the tormriquet for three hoiu’S with safety. The differerrt means that may be employed for the im-manent arrest ot hremorThage are, 1, the Appheatiorr of Cold ; 2, Stjqrtics ; 3, Oarrterisatiorr with the Hot Iron ; 4, Pressure ; 5, Flexion; 6, Torsion; 7, Ligatruc ; arrd 8, Acrrpressru-c. 1. ArumiCATiON or Colo is srrfficiorrt to arrest the gerreral oozirrg of arterra