324 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. resemble an ordinary exti’avasafcion ; from this, howevei’, it may be distin- guished by the loss of the pulse at the wist, and by the oedema of the arm. If it fonn slowly, the blood continuing fluid, there will be the usual signs of aneurism, such as thrill, pulsation, and a gushing hot sensation. In all these cases, there is much oedema of the arm, with a tendency to inflammation, sup- puration, and sloughing of the tiunour and the parts amongst Avhich it lies, ATith perhaps gangTene of the limb itself. Some of these traumatic axillary anem-isms have a tendency to diffuse them- selves AAdth great rapidity, filhng up the Avhole of the hollow of the armpit, and extending under the pectoral muscles, CA’cn up around the shoulder. In other cases again, when more circumscribed, the disease may get well spontaneously, as happened in cases recorded by Van SAvieten, Sabatier, and Hodgson. In other instances again, the disease has remained stationary for years, or has eA'en undergone consolidation imder medical treatment. It cannot, however, be considered sound practice to leave a traumatic aneurism of this artery Avdthout sm-gical interference, after the ordinary dietetic and hygienic plans of treat- ment haA'e failed in effectmg a cure, for it may at any time become rapidly diffused, or inflame and suppm’ate. The Treatment of traumatic axillary aneiu’ism must depend not only on the question whether it be diffused or circumscribed ; but, if diffused, AAfrether it be of recent origin, or have originated fr’om puncture or fr’om subcutaneous ruptm-e or laceration of the vessel as a consequence of dislocation, fractiue, bloA\', or strain. When a diffused traumatic aneurism of recent origin, rapid foimation, and dependent upon punctiu’e of the artery, is met Avuth m the axilla, the treatment must be conducted in the same way as that of a wounded artery, Anthout extra- vasation, in this situation. As Gruthrie veiy justly observes, it can make no difference whether the pimctiu’e in the skin has healed or not—the condition of the artery must be the same. The tumom’ should be laid open, the coagnla turned out, the artery sought for, and hgatiu’ed where wounded. There is, however, danger after this operation, either of secondary hsemon-hage coming- on fr-om the seat of womid, by blood conveyed through the collateral vessels Avhich open into the subscapular and circumflex arteries ; or else of the hmb falling into a state of gangrene. In either case, amputation of the shoulder and thi’ough the anemismal extravasation is the only practice that holds out a chance of hfe to the patient. In diffused traumatic aneurism of the axilla from subcutaneous ruptiue or laceration of the axillary artery, the choice would lie betAveen treating the injiuy by direct incision, and ligaturing the vessel above the clavicle. The hgatm-e of the vessel above the clavicle has been done thi-ee times, with only oSe recovery, two of the patients dying of gangrene and secondary hmmorrhage. ■ In the successful case, secondary hmmoirhage had ocemred ; and gangrene ot the arm, Avhich thiuatened, Avas prevented, and the patient saved, by amputa- tion at the shoulder-joint. The result, therefore, of ligature is so little promis- ing, that few Siugeons would be disposed, in the face of these facts, to repeat this operation. , The only other altcrnatiA'e consists of treating the luptiuc ai uy on ic same principle as a wounded one, disregarding the accidental complication ot