TmwURS. 734 of the lymphatic vessels, and sarcoma by the blood-vessels. This rule is by no means absolute, but it is sufficiently constant to form a very interesting feature in the natural history of these diseases. Paget makes the very interesting practical remark, which agrees entirely with the result of my own observatioip that the childi-en of cancerous parents may be the subjects of tumours not carcinomatous in structure, but closely resembling such growths in the rapidity of their progress, their liability to ulcerate and to bleed, and their great dis- position to return after removal. The term Semi-malignant may be employed to include those growths which occupy the doubtful position indicated above: it must, however, be distinctly understood that this term cannot be employed in any very definite sense. Innocent and malignant tumours are occasionally met with in the same person, foiu- or five different kinds of growth even occim’ing in one individual. I have seen in one patient a scirrhous breast, enchondromatous tumoiu- of the leg, and an atheromatous cyst on the back, with scrofulous glands in the neck. New formations of different types may even be found in the same mass ; thus, encephaloid cancer and spindle-celled sarcoma are said to have been found together in the testes. This, however, must not be taken as any evidence of the possibility of the conversion of one into the other, but rather as the result of a departure in different directions from the nonnal nutrition. There is indeed no proof that a non-malignant can be converted in any circumstances into a malignant tumour of a different type ; a fibrous growth may degenerate and assume many of the characters of maligmancy, at last desfroying the patient, but there is no evidence that it can ever be changed into a can- cerous mass. A malignant tumour may, however, appear on the site of a non-mahgnant growth that has been removed : thus I have seen a scirrhous nodule deposited in the cicatrix left after the removal of a cystic sarcoma of the breast. Besides these various forms of tumours, others are met with, of a constitu- tional and specific character, such as those that occur in connection with scrofula and syiffiilis ; but these are usually looked upon in this country rather as modifications of chronic inflammation than as tumonrs. A classiflcation founded upon an anatomical basis not only enables the ob- server to comprehend the precise relation which any particular growth under observation bears to others that resemble it; but it leads him to trace the origin of the new formation fr’om the pre-existing structines of the part in which it occins, thus forming the flrst step towards a knowledge of the etiology of the disease. Tumours are said to be heterologous or homologous, according as they present a gTeater or less deviation from the normal condition of the tissues fr’om which they spring. These terms are essentially relative ; and it is only to in- stances at the extreme ends of the series that either term can be deflnitely applied. The more heterologous the growth, that is, the gveater the depai-ture from the normal nutrition of the part in which it occurs, the more malignant, as a rifle, will be its action upon the system generally ; whilst the reverse, inth some exceptions, is true of homologous formations. At the same time it must be borne in mind, that Virchow’s law holds good even in the most heterologous departures fr’om the standard of health ; this law states, that “the same types of anatomical structures exist in new formations as are found in the body