424 SFEOIAL FRACTURES. 1UAGTURES OF THE METACARPUS AND FiNGERS ai’c of SO simple a character in every way as scarcely to call for detailed remarks. In the Treatment, rest of thc^ pait upon a leather, gutta-percha, or pasteboard splint is all that is requisite. In compound fractine of these bones, every effort should be made to save the part; if removal become necessary, it should be to as limited an extent as possible (p. G8). FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS AND THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Fractures of the Pelvis.—The danger here depends not so much on the extent of the fi’acture as on its complication ivith internal injiuy, and on the degree of violence ivith which it has been inflicted. Fracture may extend in any direction across the pelvic bones, though most commonly it passes through the rami of the os pubis and ischium, and across the body of the ilium, near the sacro-iliac articulation. In some cases the symphysis is broken through, and in others the fractiu’e extends across the body of the pubic bone. It occasionally happens that a portion of the crest of the ilium is broken off; but this is of httle consequence, even though the bone continue depressed. When the rami of the os pubis and ischium, or the whole body of the ilium, are broken thi’oiigh, there is, of coimse, considerable danger of internal injuiy. If the patient escape this, the fractine, however extensive it may he, may unite favomably. A patient, under my care at the Hospital, had a frac- tm’e extending through the rami of the pubes and ischium in front, and across the ihiun behind, in a line parallel vdth and close to the sacro-ihac symphysis, so as completely to detach one half of the pelvis; he recovered, however, mthout any bad consequences occurring. The natine of the injmy is usually apparent from the great degree of direct violence that has been inflicted upon the part; from the pain that the patient experiences in moving or in coughing ; from the impossibihty to stand, in consequence of a feehng as if the body were falhng to pieces when he attempts to do so ; and from the ready mobihty of the part and crepitus on seizing the brim of the pelvis on each side, and moving it to and fr’o, or on rotating the thigh of the affected side. In examining a patient with suspected fractine of the pelvis, care should, howev^er, be taken not to push the im'estigation too closely, lest injuiy be inflicted by the movement of the fragments. In those cases, indeed, in which the fraoture does not extend completely across the pelvis, or in which it is seated in the deeper parts of the’ ischium, an exact diagnosis may be impossible. In fr-actured pelvis, the principal soinces of danger ai’ise from injiuy to the bladder and inethi-a, ivith consequent extravasation of mine ; from laceration of the rectum, or fr-acture of the acetabulum ; and in examining the pelvis no rough handhng should be allowed, lest injmy to the pelvic organs be inflicted by the fragments. In the Treatment, the first thing to be done is to pass a catheter into the bladder, in order to ascertain the condition of the minary apparatus ; if it be injured, recomse must be had to measures that will be described in speaking of laceration of the methra. The next thing is to keep the part perfectly quiet, so as to bring about union. With this vflew, a padded belt, or a broad flannel roller, should be tightly apphed round the pelvis, the patient lying on a hard mattress. The knees may then be tied together, and a leather or gutta-