BED-SORES. 673 this must be left to the discretion of the Surgeon ; but no procedm-es of this kind should be undertaken until the patient’s strength has been restored suf- ficiently to bear the operation. In senile [jangrene it has been proposed to amputate the thigh high up. This practice has lieen successfully adopted by Garlike, Janies of Exeter, and others, and certainly appears to deserve a trial in all cases in which the health is othenvise good and the constitution tolerably sound. It has not as yet been adopted in a sufficient number of cases to warrant a positive opinion on its merits ; but it would appear that, for its success, the amputation should be done high up in the thigh, so that there may be a better chance of meeting with a healthy condition of the vessels and good vitahty in the limb ; the operation being performed on the principle, that this form of gangrene is dependent on local disease obstructing the vessels of the part, and not always on constitutional causes. BED-SOBES. When a part of the body is compressed too severely, or for too long a time, even in a healthy person, it loses its vitality, and a local limited slough results ,• this separates, and an ulcer is left, which cicatrises in the usual way. But in certain deranged states of the health, more especially when the blood is vitiated, and the constitutional powers lowered, as diuing fever, or when the heart is diseased and weakened, more particularly if the patient be old and debihtated, or if innervation be acutely affected, and he be paralysed, the skin covering those points of the body that are naturally and necessarily pressed upon in the recumbent position, such as the sacrum, the trochanters, the elbows, shoulders, and heels, becomes congested and inflamed, assuming a dull reddish- brown colom-, and speedily becomes excoriated, often without any pain being felt by the patient. But one great cause of bed-sores is undoubtedly bad musing. It would not be just to say that a bed-sore is always the result of negligent musing. But it may truly be said that the chance of the formation of bed- sores, and their severity when formed, mil be increased or diminished in the exact ratio of the neghgence or care of the muse. It is not so much the actual severity of the pressure that occasions a bed-sore, as moderate long-continued piessuie applied to a part congested by position in a patient enfeebled by disease or want. If means be not taken to reheve the part from the injiuious compression to which it is subjected, and more especially if it be allowed to ecome instated by the contact of fasces or mine, the subcutaneous areolar tissue con-esponding to the inflamed patch wiU become extensively softened and doughy, being converted, with the skin covering it, into a tough greyish slough, fr-om under which a thin ichorous pus exudes. This slough may extend by a process of undemining of the integmneuts covering it ; and on its sepa- ration extensive mischief will be disclosed, the fascia and muscles beiim exposcc, or the bones even laid bare, and soon becoming roughened and ST: f me cases, even the inferior apertme of the spinal canal may be f,, ^ t^eath may result fr-om a low form of arachnitis, in consequence « tho spreading to the membranes of the cord. In othe“rsrii e Tvr discharge and irritation, or becomes pyemic "To“r-™’s - » a great measnre preventive. lUeu a patient is X X