^4 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. yasculav loops on the under surface of the posterior part of the os calcis. It IS upon these anastomosing loops that the \-itality of the flap depends more than upon anything else ; and as they lie much nearer the bone than the skin it is evident that, imless the knife be kept hard upon the bone during the whole dis- section of the flap, they will be divided in large numbers, gTeatly endangeidng its vitality. In the operation as j>er- formed by Syme, the dissection of the flap is commenced from the most prominent part of the tuberosi- ties of the os calcis, and the knife can be kept in constant con- tact "with the bone vuth the greatest ease. If, on the contrary, the flap extend far into the sole of the foot in front of the tuberosities of the os calcis, it is almost impossible to dissect it back without the point of the knife being directed into the under surface of the flap and the vascular loops being divided. All the above-mentioned vessels can be readily <lissected out in any well injected foot in the dissecting-room. This operation is a most useful one in all cases requiring removal of the whole foot. The mortahty attending it is but small. I ha^s'e never known a fatal case. The stump that is left admits of good pressiue being exercised directly upon it, without tenderness or fear of ulceration. Various modifications of Syme’s amputation may at times be practised with advantage, in consequence of the soft parts covering the heel being more or less ulcerated or disorganised, so as not to admit of forming a good basis of support. In these circumstances, the fiaps may be fashioned fr’om the sides instead of fr-om behind ; and in this way I have more than once formed an excellent covering to the end of the stump. These lateral flaps should not, hov er ei, be made in any case that admits of disarticulation at the ankle in the oidinaiy way. They never afford so good a basis of support as the integuments of the heel, which are far more dense and elastic. Pirogoff’s Amputation is characterised by the preservation of the posterior portion of the os calcis. The operation is performed in the following way. An in- cision is can’ied across the sole of the foot fr’om the tip of the external malleolus to the corresponding point on the other side. This incision should not be made Fig. 50.—Syiiie’s Amputation of tlie Foot. Sawing off the MuUeoli.