275 PERMANENT CLOSURE OF ARTERY. of an-estijig- hfemoiThage, though gTcat, has, T think, been OA'crestimatod. It is not formed at all in certain states of the blood, when that fluid is devoid of iflasticity; and in some cases the joroximity of a collateral brancb to the cut end of the vessel appears, by preventing the stagnation of the blood witbiii it, to interfere with coagulation. Even when it is formed, it is of but little serviee, so far as the primary aiTCst of tbe liaBmonkage is coneerned, not being- deposited until after the flow of blood has been checked by other means, sucli as the deposit of the external coagulum and the contraction of the vessel. After it is fonned, it is useful hi acting as a damper, and in breaking the force of the wave of blood against the cut end of the vessel. It is in the permanent aiTcst of h^emon-hage that the internal coagulum is of great importance. After the hmmoiThage fi-om the cut artery has been arrested temporarily by the means that have been indicated. Nature proceeds to secure the A’essel by permanently occluding it. Perjiaxext Closure of a cut artery is effected by two processes: 1. Adhesion in the Vessel and in the Surrounding Parts. 2. Continued Contraction of the Artery. 1. Adhesion.—A few hours after the division of the artery, lymph is found to have been poured out both within and on the outside of the injiued vessel. The lymph that is thrown out within the vessel forms the most important part of the internal coagidum, and tends materially to the permanent closure of the wound. It is efPused from the cut sinface of the internal and middle coats, around and immediately vithin the contracted orifice of the vessel, forming a small nodule projecting into its interior. If an internal clot have already formed, this plastic nodule is deposited underneath it, or is effused into its base ; if no temporary clot have formed, a conical mass of coagulum Avill be deposited upon this nodule, in obedience to that law of pathology by which blood tends to coagulate upon inflamed points. When ftdly formed, this coagidum differs materially in structure at different points. At its base it is firm, of a brownish or buff coloiu, and is composed iwincipally of fibrine ; above this it becomes dark maroon-coloiued, and ends in a long tail-hke pro- jection of smiple clot, which extends up to the nearest large collateral branch. I he important part of this coagidum, pathologically speaking, is its plastic base : the rest, however long it may be, is of no use in the permanent closiue ? internal clot already described, merely serves to break the shock of the blood-stream. Coincidently with these changes in the interior of the vessel, imiiortant phemna oecur on its exterior. Exudation takes place in the sheath and m the_ sim-ounding parts, a round or ovoid mass of lymph being formed jyici IS y rst mixed up ivith the external coagulum ; the colouring matter acciimiilni gi’adually becomes absorbed, leaving the plastic material th^outs^ ""^P^^tely blocking up the end of the vessel fi-om fliifloi ^ 8'OCS on contracting, until it embraces the in- nomcd,fflonltyis cxporioncod in Beating thorn. That tht'^tutoi "d T 2