SPECIAL AAIPUTATIONS. 86 uife is not carried directly down to the bones, bnt is slanted obliquely backwards. Disarticulation of the astragalus is then effected in the usual way, by an inci- sion across the front of the foot. The foot is now forcibly extended to the greatest possible extent, and a common saw is applied immedi- ately behind the astragalus, and the bone cut obliquely downwards and forwards, so that the saw should come out immediately behind the articulation of the os calcis with the cuboid (Fig. 52) ; the malleoh are then removed, and a thin shoe of the tibia noth the articular cartilage taken olf (Fig. 53). The ojDposed osseous siu’faces must then be accimately ad- justed, the movable flap w'ell supported by a broad strip of plaster, and the limb laid on the outer side, -with the knee placed so as to take off' the tension of the teiido Achillis. The advantages O of the long oblique section of the os calcis over the shorter almost vertical cut originally made by Pirogoff are, as Busk has pointed out, that a larger sm-face of bone is brought into contact with the sawn ends of the bones of the leg, that the remaining piece of bone does not require to be tilted so much on its own axis, and that consequently the tendo Achillis is not put so much on the stretch, and that the thick skin of the heel, naturally in contact with the groinid, still serves as the basis of sup- port instead of the thin skin of the back of the heel, which is turned downwards in the other method. The advantages of this operation over the ordinary mode of disarticulation consist in the stump being longer, to the extent of the thick- ness of the portion of the os calcis left in it, and being better- adapted for pressLU’e (Fig. 54) ; in the readiness of the union of the two apphed osseous sm-faces ; and in the less likelihood of the supply of blood to the j)Osterior flap being iutemrpted, as its vascular communications are not much distm’bed. These p1ro7otf'T’inuputa^ advantages are not, however, always real, and are in some degree counter-balanced by the liability to recurrence of disease in the portion of the os calcis left in those cases in rvhich the amputation is done for disease. T^Tren it is practised for iujiuy, however, this objection does not hold good. Another objection which has been raised against this operation, consists in the supposition that the section of two osseous siufaces exiroses the patient to increased risk of osteophlebitis and pyaemia. In the first case in Avhich I peribrmed this amputation the patient, a healthy lad, whose foot was removed for injm-y, died from this cause. But subsequent and extended experience has convinced me that there is no special liability to pyaemia after Pirogoff’s amputation. After its perfoi-mance, jeatients can run ; which they cannot do after amputa- tion of the leg in any part. Fig. 53.—Pirogoff’s Amputation. Ap- jiearance of Paits after Eemoval of nalleoli.