900 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. iTiatous tuuionrs when single, or ■when but two or throe exist, are most acutely painful, yet, when they are generally diffused over the body, they lose their sensibility, and are unattended by any inconvenience except such as arises from their numbers and bulk. The number of masses thus formed is often amazingly great ; thus, in one of R. W. Smith’s cases, described in a mono- graph which contains the fullest and most accurate account of this disease, he counted in the two lower extremities alone more than 250 of these tumours, besides those in other parts of the body. In another case related by him, there were upwards of 200 small neuromata scattered over the sides of the chest and abdomen, 450 on the right lower extremity, and upwards of 300 on the left; altogether probably not less than 2000 of these growths in “ this impre- cedented case.” Stiiucturb.—The single nem'oma is composed of a white or greyish fibrous mass developed in the neurilemma, and having nervous filaments stretched through or over it. The nervous trunk above and below the tumom- is normal; it is only where it comes into contact with the neuroma, and is exposed to its pressure, that it undergoes the change indicated. Traumatic Ueuromata may arise from the wound or partial division of nerves, and occasion the most intense agony. Sometimes growths of this description of a fusiform shape, and varying from a cheny-stone to a pigeon’s egg in size, are met with in stumps after amputations ; in many instances they are unattended by inconvenience, but occasionally give rise to very severe pain. Treatment.—The treatment of painful neuromata, whether of an idio- pathic or traumatic character, or existing in stumps, consists in their excision. After removal, the part supplied by the nerve, Avhich is usually necessarily divided, becomes paralysed for a time, but may eventually regain its sensibility. In some cases, however, by cautious dissection, the tumoiu’ may be removed from the nerve that is in contact with it, without cutting this across. This has been done in the case of neuromata of the sciatic nerve and its di’vdsions. When these tumours are numerous, they should not be interfered with ; and, if unattended by pain, they need not be excised unless their bulk prove inconvenient. TRAUMATIC PARALYSIS. Traumatic paralysis is referable to four distinct sets of causes. First, it may aiTse from Coinpresdon of the Brain, giving rise to hemiplegia or more general paralysis, according as to whether the cause of pressure be confined to one side, or extend to the brain-substance generally, so as to injure or infiuence it more Avidely. Secondly, it may arise from Injimj of the Spmat Cord, giving rise primarily or secondarily to lesion of the substance, either by laceration, com- pression, or ultimate disintegTation ; paraplegia of the parts below the seat of injury being the result. Thirdly, Pressure on Nerves at any part of their course, from their roots to the terminal subdivision of their trunk, may occasion paralysis of the parts supplied by them. Fom-thly, Section of a Nerve will necessarily destroy all sensation and motion in the part to which it is distributed. From ivhatever cause it arises, traumatic paralysis may present every possible amount of diminution of nervous power, fr-om the slightest