INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 528 ■cases in the most extensive secondary deposits were Ibund in the lungs, liver, joints, &c., hut in which not a drop of pus existed in the interior of the skull in any pai-t; hut I have never seen a case in Avhich the diploe around the injured hone did not contain pus, sometimes diffused through its cells, sometimes filling its venous sinuses. When intracranial suppuration co-exists wth secondary pyaemic deposits, the symptoms of the two conditions hccome so mixed up as to lead to con- siderahlc difficulty in diagnosis ; hut when the intracranial suppuration is not established, there may he a complete absence of all cerebral distiu-hance, whilst the alternating rigors and heat of pyaemia, the oppressed breathing, or the kepatic tenderness, with hiccup or reem-ring sickness, and the articular tenderness, give unmistakable evidence of the formation of secondary TIiId SCG SS0 S • The prognosis of these cases is necessarily most unfavomablc. I doubt much whether recovery is possible when once pyeemia, consequent on head- injury has advanced to the formation of secondary visceral abscesses. _ Treatment.—The treatment of these various cerebral injimies, and of their concomitant affections, is one of the most important and difficult subjects that can arrest the Sm-geon’s attention ; the difficulty depending m a gveat measm-e on the various conditions that have just been described not occiuTmg-m prac- tice with that amomit of distinctness and particulaiaty by which their chai-acters can alone be conveyed in description, but being associated together m sue a wav that the exact state of the patient caimot so readily be made out. Ihere are few cases, indeed, in which practical tact and a nice discrimination and analysis of symptoms are more required than in those now under consideiation. It wmld hoover, be useless to attempt to describe the shades and modifica- Iffir^treatment^ in the management of the different gTO^ ffiese various forms of traumatic cerebral distimbance. ^ e must, therefoie ctitent ourselves with describing the treatment of each state ^ sepaa’ately, and leave the consideration of the varieties that commonly present themselves in practice to the discretion of the Sin-geon. • f Ill the Treatment of Concussion, the fii’st gveat indication is to ic- estlu* the Vested energies of the circulation f “r Thi T iVppt^iio-this we must be careful not to overstimulate the patient. Ihc In effect ^ ’ applicable to the treatment of shock generally ; " r .^mTe a ^ blankets, to put hot bottles aroimd hini, to3w Motions to the surface, and, tvhen he is sufficiently recovered, to Z to Sl a small quantity of warm tea. Alcoholic stimulants of ^11 1 1 rrnlfl be avoided • mdess the depression of the nervous eneigyffic r t t^rea tirtmiih be brought Int without their agency But “ e^etattaZgsome ether or aromatic spirits of ammonia maybe ad- ministered. ‘ . , foVen, in m-event the occurrence When reaction ha. come it may be quite of inflammatory mischief. ^ It ^ regulated diet sufficient to purge the alcoholic stimulants and tor a few days, directing h . - i,„.o been more severe, and