FRACTURE- WITH RUPTURE OF ARTERY. 375 the Rupture of the Main Artery of the limb opposite the seat of fracture, or a wound of it by one of the fragments of broken bone. This accident chiefly occurs in fractures of the lower part of the femur or upper part of the tibia ; the popliteal in one case, and the posterior tibial in the otlier, being the vessel wounded. The symptoms consist in the rapid formation of an uniform elastic tense swelling of the limb, with obscure pulsation or thrill, opposite the seat of injury, and cessation of pulsation in the arteries at the ankle, with coldness and numbness of the foot and lower part of the leg. If the posterior tibial be the vessel injured, the circulation in the arteries of the foot may return after a day or two, and the coldness and numbness may lessen. If it be the popliteal that is injured, no such amelioration will take place, but the diffused aneurism in the ham will increase, the circulation will become more and more impeded, and gangrene Avill result. What should be the treatment of such a case as this ? The Sirrgeon has three alternatives. 1. The case may be treated as one of open arterial wound, the tumour laid open, and the injimed vessel ligatured at the seat of wound. The ob- jections to this treatment are, that a large ca’iiity is opened, which must sup- piu-ate, and 'will probably slough ; that the fracture is rendered a compomid one of the worst kind; and that the securing the artery is, in any circumstances, extremely difficult, and indeed luicertain, entaihng such an amount of dis- turbance of the soft parts as seriously to imperil the vitality of the hmb. 2. The circulation through the femoral artery may be arrested by com- pression or ligatiu’e of the vessel. I am not aware that compression has ever been tried in a case of diffused traumatic aneurism ; but there can be no reason why the effects of pressure upon the ai’tery, by means of Carte’s or some other proper compressor, should not be tried before proceeding to more severe measures. Should it not succeed, the artery may be tied in Scarpa’s triangle. x\n operation there has several times been successfully done in such cases, more especially when the hasmorrhage has been the result of laceration of the ])osterior tibial artery. But this operation should only be done in those cases in which, notwithstanding the existence of diffused traumatic aneurism in the ham, the pulsation has returned in the arteries of the foot, and the Avarmth and sensibihty of the member have been in part at least restored. If these CAidences of a return of circulation through the anterior tibial have not taken place, it AviU be worse than useless to ligature the femoral, as gangrene must inevitably ensue. 3. Amputation of the thigh may be performed. This severe measure need not be canied out at once. The Surgeon may AA”^ait a day or tAvo and Avatch the progress of OA'ents. If he find that there is no sign of restoration of pul- sation in the arteries of the foot, that the coldness and numbness of the limb continue to increase, and, in fact, that gangrene is impending, then the sooner he amputates the better for the patient’s safety. If the artery have been tied, and gangrene result, the limb ought at once to bo removed. . lo sum up, I Avould advise, in a case of diffused traumatic aneurism arisiim from and complicating a simple fracture of the loAver extremity : 1. Not to open the tumour and search for the artery at the seat of Avound ; 2. To compress or tie the femoral, if pulsation have returned or continue in the