TUMOURS. 732 Tlie following may bo looked upon as the principal signs of malignancy in those turnours—as cancers, which are clinically as well as anatomically ma- in whicl^, in fact, the. strnctiu’e taken as a whole differs from any- thing that normally exists in the body, and in which the progress of the disease has an invariable tendency to proceed from a primary local to a secondary constitutional condition. 1. The tumour, Avhether arising spontaneously or as the result of external violence, whether occurring in an individual in whom there has previously existed an hereditary tendency to similar or to allied disease, or in one whose progenitors ha^'e never evinced any tendency to similar affections, IS in\’ariably at fh-st small, and is usually defined, with a distinct outline. ’2. There is a constant tendency to the extension of the disease by local infiltration into and the absorption of neighbouring structiues; not only by their mere absorption by the pressure of an increasing growth, but by their actual incorporation into its very substance, and the deposit of the morbid mass in their place. 3. This process continues uninterruptedly; in many cases very slowly, as in scirrhus of the breast; in others, in special forms of disease and in certain situations, as in encephaloid of the testes, very rapidly. 4. The rapidity of the growth of the tumour, and of the absorption and in- corporation of the neighboiu’ing structures, is usually in the measure of and in proportion to the mahgnancy of the affection. 5. There is no limit to the size of the growth ; but when it reaches a certain point of development, its central parts undergo fatty degeneration, and in some cases a sort of cicatricial contraction. When it reaches the siuface, it speedily sloughs or ulcerates towards its centre, giving rise to profuse discharge usually offensive in character, and not unfrequently to abundant haemorrhage. Even diming this stage, its circumference continues to grow and to invade the siuTounding parts. 6. At a certain period of the growth—early in some cases, not until many months have elapsed in others—the lymphatic glands immediately above the primary disease, those intervening between it and the central portions of the system, become enlarged and hardened, in consequence of the deposit within them of morbid material identical in character with that which constitutes the primaiy or original disease. This secondary impheation of the lymphatic glands is undoubtedly due to direct absorption. It may occur before the skin is involved ; but almost invariably manifests itself when once the integiunental structimes are implicated in the malignant disease. The disease has a tendency to run the same coimse in the glands that are thus secondarily affected as it does in its primary seat. 7. At a later period than this the internal organs, more especially the hmgs and liver, become the seat of secondary deposits of a similar natime essentially, though differing possibly in some minor chai’acters, to those which were primarily developed in the' original seat of the local affection. These secondary visceral deposits occasionally become the foci of new developments ot the disease, which assume a more active and fatal character than tiie piimaiy affection to which they owe their origin. _ _ • 8. After the contamination of the lymphatic glands, the constitution of the