FRACTURES. 370 ILe sometimes uses pieces of thin -wood, like veneer, lined with cotton-wool, next the skin ; over these the bandage, saturated with the plaster, is aj^plied by circnlar tnnis in the nsnal way. In applying the plaster bandage, no cotton- Avool or other soft material need otherwise be laid between it and the skin. Idle bandage, soaked in plaster of the consistence of cream, is first applied in a circular manner, in the neighbourhood of the fracture, which has prc- I’iously been reduced. If this be compound, the wound must not be covered by the turns of the bandage. Three superimposed layers are usually suflicient to give stability. The same method is then applied to the bone above and beloAV the fracture. The bandage, if properly applied, should bo cpiite firm in eight minutes. The opening of the wound is then to bo covered vith cotton- wool of sufficient thickness to be on a level with the bandage ; and over this must be fastened a handkerchief or ordinary bandage. As soon as the whole limb has been thus covered in, a diy strip of simple bandage is placed along its whole length, and a' piece of wire along each side of this; and the whole is then smeared and smoothed down Avith plaster of Paris. While the mixture is still moist, and before it is quite set, the ends of the Avh-es are ch-awn up, and the casing is thus cut through by two narrow fuiTOAVs along its whole length, by Avhich it is in no way weakened. When it is necessary to remove the apparatus, the ends of the dry slip of bandage Avhich lies between the furrows, are drawn up together', and a lid of plaster of Paris is removed. The srrbjacent plastered bandage is then easily cut through by scissors. In the case of a large limb, this proceeding may be adopted in seA’eral places, so that the apparatus may be cut into as marry pieces as is necessary. The setting of the plaster may be retarded by the addition to it of sohrtiorr of borax. Thus a solution of 1 part to 12 of the water used will retard the settirrg fifteerr mirrrrtes ; and 1 to 8 will retard it fifty minrrtes, and so orr. 3. The method of applying the plaster apparatus, as practised in the Bavarran army dru'ing the Prarreo-German War, is as follows. Two pieces of flannel, twenty inches broad, are stitched together dowrr the middle for the length of the leg; and beyond this both are cut through in the same line for the length of the^foot. The flarurel is placed under the limb, so that the seam reaches from the ham to the heel. The sides of the irrrrer piece are brought together over the leo- and fixed in front, and along the sole, by hare-hp pins (bent at a right ano-le^ so that they may be easily extracted aftenvards), and thus a closely fitting stocking is formed. The sides of the outer piece are then brought for- wards and cut, so that each may overlap the middle line of the leg and sole by three-quarters of an inch. The limb- is then laid on one side: and while the outer piece of flannel is held back, a layer of plaster of Pans of the consistence of thici cream is spread evenly, to the thickness of half an inch, over the nmei piece, andmade to pass quite to the seam behind, and the line of junction of the kies of the inner piece in front. The outer piece is pressed over this befoie it reach the middle line in fr'ont and along the sole. wtn to has set, Ihe limb is tun.ed over, and the process ,s y " othcrsidc. The pins may now beremoved tlmphitc^ when the whole has set, the splint may be taken off, the edges trimmed, and those of the inner piece of flannel cut so as to leave suffic J