479 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. applied, is that wldcli was described by Soden in 1841, in which the long tendon of the biceps is displaced from its groove or ruptured, and the head of the bone is thrown upwards and forwards under the coracoid process, but not out of the glenoid cavity. It is to this form of displacement also that Callaway seems disposed to confine the term partial. Le Gros Clark has recently published an accomit of a case in which there was partial dislocation of the head of the humerus behind and below the acromion. In this partial dislocation the signs do not appear to be A'ery evident. In Soden’s case there was slight flattening of the outer and posterior parts of the joint, and the head of the bone appeared to be drawn higher up in the glenoid cavity than usual. There was gveat pain induced by any movement of the biceps muscle ; and, on attemj)ting any ovei’hand motions, the head of the bone became locked by the acromion. A pecuhar partial dislocation of the humerus forwai’d, dependent on paralysis of the deltoid, will be discussed in the Chapter on Traimiatic Paralysis. Causes.—Dislocations of the shoulder-joint are in almost aU cases the result of falls upon the hand or elbow ; the particular variety of dislocation depend- , ing upon the direction of the shock communicated to the arm, and the position of the hmb at the time of receiving it. On this account we almost invariably find the displacement in a direction inwards and doumwards. When a person saves himself in falling with his arms widely stretched out, the head of the bone is chfr'en with all the force of a long lever against the lower and imier portion of the capsule, which, being ruptimed, in this its weakest part, allows the bone to be thrown upon or to the inside of the inferior costa of the scapula,, and thus into the axilla. When the patient falls upon his elbow, the inner part of the joint is still acted on ; but, the leverage not being so great, the head of the bone is throum upwards or forwards under the cla^dcle. This dislocation is also often the result of direct -^uolence apphed to the shoulder. The dislocation backwards can only take place if the arm receive the shock at the time when it is stretched across the chest. As this is an unusual position for any injury to be received in, this dislocation is proportionately rare. An obstacle to this displacement may also be found in the great strength of the outer portion of the capsule of the joint, as compared ivith the inner. Relative Prequency.—Sir A. Cooper states that the dislocation “into the axilla is the most frequent form of accident. This opinion is confirmed by that of most English Surgeons. But Malgaigne, and more recently Flower, have expressed the opinion that the subcoracQid is the most common form of this accident. Flower, who has very ably investigated this subject, finds that of forty-one specimens in the different London Museums, thirty-one are un- doubtedly siibcm-acoid, and that, of fifty recent cases of which he has cognisance, forty-four were of this fomi. Next in order of frequency comes the subglenoid, and then the suhdavicular, which is rare. I believe that the subclavicular is’ as it were, an exaggerated degree of the subcoracoid ; the continuance of the : same force, whether mechanical or muscular, ivhich had thrown or drawn the cad of the bone to the inner side of the coracoid process, carrying it upwards and inwards under the centre of the clavicle. The displacement of the head of the bone under the spine of the scapula is so rare that Sir A. Cooper met with