239 TIME FOR AMPUTATION. among 80,000 wounded Eussians there were 3000 amputations. Of the primary amputations of the upper extremity, leg, and foot, about one-half, and of the lower and middle third of the thigh, about one-third recovered ; but of all the secondaiy amputations more than tAVO-thirds died. Primary amputa- tion, therefore, should ahvays, Avhen practicable, be performed in preference to secondary. But hoAV soon after the infliction of the injury should it be practised ? It is the opinion of some Surgeons that there is often an interval betAveen the infliction of the injury and the superA'ention of the shock to the system, in which the limb may more advantageously be removed. Should the depression of “ shock ” haA'e come on, it then becomes a question whether immediate amputation should be practised, or the removal of the limb delayed until reaction sets in. On this point it is obA'iously difficult to lay doAvn any A'ery definite rule ; but it may, I think, be stated generally as the result of the experience of the best army Surgeons, that, if the shock be not A'ery intense, the limb may, under chloroform, be safely removed. Should the prostration be excessiA'e, and there be reason to fear the possibihty of internal injury, it aauU be Aviser to delay operation. But if an unsuccessful attempt at the preservation of the limb be made, and if occasion for its subsequent remoA'al should arise, the Sm-geon must wait until suppmation has set in before he operates, the period of acute inflammatory action being allowed to pass by. The cases that most commonly require secondary amputation are those in Avhich traumatic gangi-ene has set in ; here the limb must always be remoA'ed without delay, in accordance AAuth the principles laid down in speaking of this subject in reference to contused wounds. If profuse hmmorrhage from the Avound occiu, and do not admit of suppression by the ordinary means, secondary amputation may become necessary. So, also, Avhen the bones do not unite, the patient being worn out by discharges and the irritation of necrosis and caries, and left Avith a wasted, shattered, and useless limb, its removal is the only means of saving life. The great mortahty after secondary amputation in military practice is, in great measiue, owing to the unfavourable hygienic conditions to which the Avoimdcd soldier is usually exposed fr-om over-crowding and want of necessary appliances. He is thus rendered peculiarly liable to the occimence of pyiemia, septiciemia, and hospital gangrene. Ihe nature and treatment of. gun-shot injuries of special regions, as of the head, chest, and abdomen, Avill be considered in the Chapters devoted to the description of Injuries of those parts.