728 PYAEMIA. Treatment.—The Preventive Treatment of pycemia consists in a scrupulous attention to those hygienic measures which have Ijeen described in the earlier chajiters of this work ; and, abo\’o all, to a carei'ul avoidance of ovemmvcUng. It^ is impossible to speak too forcibly on the necessity of avoiding this O'n il in siu’gical Avards, if we wish to prcA'ent outbreaks of pyaemia. I he more the patients are isolated, the less AA'ill be the liability to pyaemia. If the aggregation of patients favom-s the deA-elopment of this disease, their segregation is the best preventive: abundant cubic space of air, free ventilation, and scrupulous attention to cleanliness will do more to prevent the dcA'eloi> ment and spread of pyemia than any other precautions that may be adopted. In fact, none are of any avail if these be neglected. Yet it is impossible not to admit that the constitution of the patient himself may haA^e much to do Avith the production of the disease ; and it is often distressmg to the Surgeon to feel that, whatever care may be bestoAved upon the patient after an operation or accident, in these respects, the evil influences to which he has been exposed previously to its occiu’rence may have so conhiminated his blood, that pymmia becomes almost an inevitable sequence of any suppuratiA'e inflammation that is set up. As it is now AveU knoAvn that the absorption of decomposing animal fluids is an efficient cause of aU the symptoms of pyaemia, too great care cannot be taken to prevent putrefaction in the discharges. Lister states that by his antiseptic method of treating he has almost abolished pyaemia in his practice. As, however, from what has been said before Avhile treating of the pathology of pyaemia, it is clear that the disease may arise independently of decomposition, no system of di’essing can be expected absolutely to pre- vent it in all cases. A feAv exceptional cases Avill probably occin, in spite of everything that can be done to prevent it. In addition to ordinary prophylactic hygienic measures, there are a fcAv of a more special character. Thus, pus should abvays be freely let out, especially if it be sanious, decomposing, or offensive. Quinine or iron may be given before an operation, or as soon after as the patient’s condition will bear it; and a liberal supply of good nourishment enjoined. Disinfectants, especially ' carbolic acid and the chlorides, should be freely used. Some Simgeons have advocated the internal administration of agents that haA'e a special antiseptic character, as the hyposulphites and siflpho-carbolates ; but their use does not seem to have been attended with the benefit that was expected from them on theoretical grounds. The Curative Treatment of pytemia is most unsatisfactory. It doubtless happens that patients occasionally recover fr’om this disease, eA’en after the formation of diffuse abscesses; but such a result must be looked upon as a happy exception to its commonly fatal termination. The only plan of treat- ment that holds out any reasonable hope of success, appears to me to be the stimulating and tonic one, consisting of brandy or A\ane, ammonia, bark, and beef-tea ; in fact, that plan of treatment which is usually adopted in lowfeACis and inflammations. I have certainly seen service done in some cases, and indeed recovery effected, by the administration of large doses of quinine ; Aa e grains being given every third or fourth hour, Avith the best effect. Beyond this I do not think it necessary to go. Among many others I may mention a