735 GENERAL CHARACTERS OF TYPICAL TISSUES. generally,” and thereby denies the possibility of the occurrence of a true hete- roplasia, and the existence of specific elements in new formations. The following classification may be adopted as possessing chnical convenience, and, at the same time, presenting, as far as possible, an anatomical unifonnity. I. Cystic Tumours generally. ‘ II. Tumoiu’s composed of one of the modifications of fully developed Con- nective Tissue. a. Fat—Lipoma. h. Fibrous Tissue—Fibroma. c. Cartilage—Chondroma, Enchondroma. d. Bone—Osteoma, Exostosis. e. jMucous Tissue of Umbilical Cord or Vitreous Humour—Myxoma. III. Tumours which resemble in structure more or less perfectly one of the more Complex Tissues of the body. a. Muscle—Myoma. I). Herve—True Heiu’oma. c. Blood-vessels. Angioma, Ntevus. d. Lymphatic Vessels—Lymphangioma. e. Lymphatic Clauds—Lymphadenoma. /. Papilla of Skin or Mucous Membrane—Papilloma. g. Secreting Glands—^Adenoma. IV. Tiunours composed of Tissue which is either purely Embryonic, or is showing some signs of a tendency to develope into adult tissue of the Connec- tive type. ^ Sarcomata.—These are chiefly subdivided according to the shape and size of the cells of which they are composed; thus, round-celled, oval- celled, spindle-celled, giant-ceUed sarcoma, &c. _ V. Tumours composed of Cells of an Epithehal Type, arranged in spaces in a stroma consisting of more or less perfectly developed fibrous tissue. Carcinomata or true Cancers.—Scirrhous, Encephaloid, and Adenoid Cancer, Epithelioma. ,1., Tm of Tissues—Before proceeding to consider he mdividual growths, which are thus grouped together, it wiU be desirable ^hicHw Py ae structures upon vhich the types of some of the classes are founded. ^ First as to connective tissue .—This exists throughout the body, present- ing however, many varieties of foian adapted to the special ftmctions of each particular part in which it appears. It consists essentially of an interceUular or fibrillated, in which are embedded ceUs having an oval a are normaUy present. These are looked upoS of ae blood, and the iked branched tures, which constitiito^’o^i ^ ^ various cell-struc- tioii Thi. ® ^ proportion of the products of abnormal niitri ‘■00. Th.s v.ew .s, however, now abandoned by many and nnKrZlt^t