672 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. ?)12), iuupntatioii should bo pcrlbrincd as soon as the gangrene has unequivo- cally inaiiilested itself, without waiting for the lino of demarcation. The result of amputation for traumatic gangrene is, on the Avhole, very unfavourable ; the patient very commonly sinking from a recun’ence of the disease in the stump, or fr’om the constitutional disturbance that had previously set in. Those cases are especially unfavourable in which the areolar tissue of the limb is much infiltrated and disorganised ; the affection indeed partaking more of the characters of constitutional disease, with some forms of which it is closely associated. There are two exceptions to the rule of amputating in traimiatic and local gangrene before the occurrence of the line of demarcation ; viz., gangi’ene from frost-bite, and that from severe burns. In these injuries it is better to wait for the formation of the line of separation, and then to fashion the stump through or just above it as the circumstances of the case require. In gangrene from constitutional causes, it is a golden ride in surgery never to amputate until the hue of separation has formed ; for, as it is impossible in these cases to say where the mortification AnU stop, the amputation might be done either too high or not high enough ; and, under any circumstances, the morbid action Avonld almost to a certainty be set up in the stump. It is not even sufficient in cases of this kind to Avait until the line of demarcation has formed before re- moving the limb ; these cases of spontaneous or constitutional gangrene liaAing often a tendency to remain stationary for some days, and then, creeping on, to overstep the line by Avhich they had at first appeared to be arrested. Besides this, the local distiu’bance and inflammation set up by the amputation might be too great for the lessened Autahty of the system or part, and might of itself occasion a recurrence of the gangTeue. Hence in these cases it is ahvays Avell to wait ViK. 267.-Sroiitaiicoiis Amputation in Gangrene of Right Foot strength and fitneSS foi ‘ on.l T.Aff i.PL'from Embolism. j.-l until the line of separa- tion has ulcerated so deeply that there is no chance of the gangrene overleaping this barrier, at the same time that means are taken, by the administration of tonics, nourishing food, &c., to improve the patient’s the operation. So soon