419 DEFORMITY IN FRACTURED RxiDIUS. to their nature. Mien simple, there is usually no very great displacement; but there -n-ill be noticed some timiefiiction about the mist, a swelling at its dorsal aspect, loss of the morement of the radius, and crepitus on rotating the bone Avhilst the hand is drawn down. A\'Tien the fracture is comminuted, and still more so when impacted, the signs are very marked and characteristic ; so Fi{j. 160.—Fracture of Lower End of Radius : Side View. much so, that they may always be looked upon as diagnostic of these forms of this accident. The de- formity thus occasioned gives rise to a remarkable undular distortion of the wrist. On looking sideways at the hand and fore-arm ivhich are held midway be- tween supmation and pronation, it will be seen that there is a considerable dorsal prominence apparently situated just above the back of the carpus (Fig. 166) ; inmiediately underneath this, on the palmar aspect of the wi’ist, just opposite the aimular ligament, there is a remarkable hollow or arch, confined to the radial side of the arm ; a little above this, that is to say, on the lower part of the anterior aspect of the fore-arm, there is another rounded prominence, not nearly so large or distinct, however, as the one on the dorsal aspect. The hand is abducted and rotated outwards, so that its axis is oblique to that of the forearm ; the ulnar border being somewhat convex, and the styloid process of the ulna projecting sharply mider the skin (Fig. 167). ^ The radial side of the wrist is, on the contrary, somewhat con- cave, appearing to be shortened. Fig. 167.—Fractiu’e of Lower End of R.idius: Back View. The pam at the seat of injury is very severe, and is gveatly increased by mo\ing the hand, especially by making any attempt at supination. The hand 13 perfectly useless, the patient being unable to support it. All power of rotating the radius is lost, the patient moving the whole of the ann from the shoiddcr at once, and thus apparently, but not really, pronatiug and supinatiug it. repitus can leadily be felt when the fracture is simple or comminuted ; but '' m? impacted, the most careful examination fails to elicit it. The Cause of the particular Deformity that is observed, and indeed the general pathology of the injmy, has been the subject of much discussion ; in a gveat ^asine owing, I believe, to the rarity of the opportunities of dissecting recent c uies of this kind. Surgeons are, however, noiv agreed that the dorsal nro- nllf.o!rn the lower fragment, canying the cai-pus with it, being dis- wn- upwards ; whilst the palmar tumefaction is due to the in openuon .'T 1 displacement oper.,tion. ai,o displacement of tlic tipper fragment is evidently due to E 13 2 I