289 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. one end of the ligature ; if both be cut off, the noose and knot left arc apt to become enveloped by granulations, and, after the healing process is well ad- vanced, or perhaps completed, to give rise to suppuration in and re-opening of the wound. The ligature that hangs out of the wound acts as a seton, giving rise to a track of suppuration along its course, along which the secretions of the wound may drain away. The end of the artery which is included in the noose, and which projects beyond it, sloughs, and thus acts as a foreign body in the woimd. When the artery that is tied is small, the end disintegrates and breaks doum in the discharges ; when it is large, it separates, often attached to the noose of the ligature when that has ulcerated through the portion of the A'essel that has been tied, coming away mth the ligature through the unhealed ligatiu’e-track. These inconveniences are inseparable from the use of the ligatm-e, but may be materially lessoned by the Surgeon bringing the threads out at the lower angle of the wound, and thus allowing the discharges to escape at the most dependent part. 2. When the artery has to be hgatured in its coniinuity, but at the point wounded, it must be exposed by as careful a dissection as the state of the parts will admit. If a Surgeon determine to apply a ligatui-e at a distance from the injiuy, his anatomical knowledge wiU guide him to the vessel. This is usually done by cutting thi’ough the tissues in the course of the vessel; HargTave, •however, recommends that, in ligaturing arteries, the incisions should not be made parallel to the com’se of the vessel, but in an obhque or transverse direc- tion over it; and this suggestion appears to me to be deserving of attention in some situations, more particularly in the ligatm'e of the brachial at the bend of the arm, or of the carotid at the root of the neck. The Siu’geon is usually guided to the vessel by some fixed fine or point, as the edge of a muscle, which has a determined and constant relation to the artery. Thus, in exposing the brachial, he cuts along the inner border of the biceps. In some cases, however, as in the hgature of the iliac arteries, no such certain anatomical guide exists, and then an imaginary line is drawn between two fixed points—as the umbilicus and the centre of Poupart s ligament—which becomes the guide to the coiu’se of the vessel. These “ directing lines ” should be carefriUy studied and kept in In making the first incision, the skin should be put on the stretch by the fingers of the left hand, or by those of an assistant. If the artery be super- ficial, or if there be parts of importance in its vicinity, the incision should not penetrate deeper than the skin. But if the vessel be deeply seated and no parts of importance intervene, it may be carried at once tlu’ough the sub- cutaneous areolar tissue, until the fascia covering the artery is exposed. This must then be 2iinched up with the forceps, and opened by the edge of the scalpel laid horizontally. Through this opening a grooved director may then e passed, and the fascia incised on it, without risk to subjacent parts. The s eath of the vessel is now exposed by a little careful dissection ; and the next step of the operation, Avhich consists in exposing the artery and separatino- it from Its accompanying vein, is one of great delicacy. This is done bv ninclfiuo- up the sheath with t.ho fm-f./vno o-,.a i—.-j?- i ^ mind. u