rilOGXOSTS OF SPINAL CONCUSSION. 581 fluctuations and intermissions in intensity, the invariable presence of more or less paralysis of sensation, or of motion, or both, will easily enable the Surgeon to jndge of the true nature of the ease. That mental emotion is occasionally manifested by an unfortunate individual Avho has been seriously iujmed by an aecident Avhich tends to shake his Avhole nervous system, can scarcely be matter of siu|)rise ; but the term ‘"hysteria,” elastic as it is, cannot, it appeal’s to me, be strained so far as to include this condition ; and even if it be considered applicable to the patient’s mental state, it can in no Avay be looked upon as the cause of those bodily sufferings and disabilities Avhich constitute the most important and serious part of the disease. Prognosis.—The prognosis of concussion of the spinal cord and that of the consecutive meningo-myelitis is a question of extreme interest in a medico- legal point of viev", and is often involved in much difficulty. The prognosis requires to be made with regard, first to the life, and secondly to the health of the patient. So far as life is concerned, it is only in cases of scA'crc and direct blows upon the spine, in which intraspinal hmmoiThage to a considerable extent has occuiTed, or the cord or its membranes have been ruptured, that a speedily fatal termination may be feared. In some of the cases of concussion of the spine, followed by chronic inflam- mfrtion of the membranes and of the cord itself, death may supervene after several, perhaps three or four, years of an increasingly progressive breaking- down of the general health, and the slow extension of the paralytic symptoms. I haA'e heard of several instances in which concussion of the spine has thus proved fatal some years after the occiurence of the accident. I have neA’er knoAvn a patient recover Avho has been attacked by convulsions, progressive paralysis developing itself, and the case ultimately proving fatal. Gore, of Bath, informs me that he is acquainted Avith two cases which proved fatal at long periods of time after the accident, in both of Avhich this symptom AA’as present. Concussion of the spine may prove fatal: first, at an early period by the se\'erity of the direct injury ; secondly, at a more remote date by the occun’ence of inflammation of the cord and its membranes ; and, thirdly, after a lapse of sevei’al years, by the slow and progressiv’e development of structiu'al changes in the cord and its membranes. If death do not occiu’, is recovery certain ? Is there no intermediate state betAAcen a fatal result, proximate or remote, and absolute and complete recovci’}'- ? In considering the question of recovery after concussion of the spine, we have to look to two points : first, the recovery from the primary and direct effects of the injury ; and, secondly, the recovery from the secondary and remote con- sequences. I here can be no doubt that recovery, entire and complete, may occur in a case of concussion of the spine, Avhen the symptoms haA’e not gone beyond the primary stage, Avhen no inflammatory action of the cord or its membranes has been developed, and more particularly Avhen the patient is young and healthy. This last condition indeed is most important. A healthy yomig man is not only less likely to suffer from a severe shock to the system rom a fall or railAvay injuiy than one more advanced in life ; but, if he do su er, his chance of ultimate rocoA'ory Avill be greater, provided always that no secondary and organic lesio,^ have developed them^es I btS to