CANNON-BALLS. 223 composed of soft tissue, meeting with but little resistance in its passage, it loses but little of its momentum ; and passing out of the body with nearly the same force as that with which it entered, it makes an aperture of exit that ditfei-s hut slightly, if at all, from that of entiy. If the ball strike a bone in its passage through the limb or body, and thus, by meeting with much resist- ance, have its momentum materially lessened, the aperture of exit will be torn, largo, and ragged, differing materially from that of entry. But in addition to tlnTconditions given by Guthrie, there are two other circumstances that tend to occasion a difference between the apertures of entry and of exit. The first is, that the bullet as it traverses carries with it a mass of foreign material, pieces of clothing, shreds of tendons, splinters of bone, which, driven along by the velocity commnnicated to them by the ball, distend and Avidely separate the distant parts of the wound and thus cause the aperture of exit, near and in which, they will be fonnd to l)e lodged, to be larger than that of entry, which has oidy admitted the buUet. The aperture of entry is made solely by the ball. The apertime of exit is made by it, plus the debris that it can’ies along with it. An additional reason for the difference in size between the two apertimes is this, that the ^vide tearing asunder of the tissues at the aperture of exit is greatly due to their want of support. The jDart first struck has as a supjDort the whole thickness of the limb or the body. That which is last perforated has no such support behind it, and is thus lai’gely torn or splintered outwards. This is- exactly what happens if we drive a nail through a board. If supported by another piece of wood, the apertures on the tAvo sides are eA’en and of the same size. If imsupported, the aperture in the distant side, that of exit, in fact, AviU be splintered, irregular in shape, and larger than that of entry. In bnllet-wounds the entrance-aperture is actually less in diameter than the bnUet itself, proAuded it be made whilst the ball is moving Avith its fidl velocity; but if the ball have lost much of its momentum before it strikes, then the entrance-wound aaiU always be large and ragged. In this there is nothhig pecidiar to the tissues of the living body ; the same happens when any elastie material, as a piece of green timber, is struck. Much, however, Avill also- depend on the period at which the Avound is examined. In. the early stages, for the reasons mentioned, the Avound of entry may be smaller than that of exit; but, as the eschar Avhich forms in the Avound of entiy is lai’ger than that at the exit-aperture, the former may, in a later stage, appear larger than the latter. This difference in the size of the two Avoimds I saw Avell exemplified in the case of a young man, shot through the neck in a duel, Avith a pistol-ball. The aperture of entiy, Avhich Avas at first the smallest, appeared on the second day the largest in consequenee of the extrusion of a black eschar ; though it- continued more regular in shape than that of exit. Cannon-balls inflict tAvo kinds of injiu’ies. They may contuse a part deeply, crushing muscles and bones, Avithout destroying the integrity of the skin, the ball either having lost its velocity, and being sjient, or strikino- obliquely, or rolling over the surface of the body. The elasticity of the skin preseiwes this from injiuy, though all the subjacent textures—bones, muscles, and vessels—may be totally disorganised and crushed into a pulp, if a limb be- struck ; if the trunk itself be uninjiu’ed, the vertebral column and lumbar muscles may be disorganised, and the liA'er, kidneys, spleen, stomach, and