632 INJURIES OF THE GUEST. It may be necessary, however, to support the patient’s strength at the same time that means are employed to reduce the inflammation. In fi'acture of the ribs with Avounded lung, the same line of treatment requires to be adopted; but Avhen the accident occurs in elderly people, we may advantageously sub- stitute calomel and opium, or anunonia and senega, for the antimonials. If extravasation of blood into the pleura be going on, its further effusion must, if possible, be arrested by the same means that are adopted for the stop- IDage of external htemoiThage. When the bleeding has been checked in this way, the blood must early be let out from the pleural sac ; for, if it be allowed to remain there, it will speedily putrefy, gmng rise to extensive formation of pus in the caAdty. In order to prevent this occiu-rence, the wound should be opened freely AAuth a probe-pointed bistoury at the fifth or sixth day after the injiu’y, so that the blood may be discharged. If it do not readily come away, a cupping-glass may be applied over the aperture, and thus it may be AAithdrawn. Should, however, the hmmorrhage continue notwithstanding the employment of the means indicated, Guthrie advises that the wound should be closed, so that the blood that flows into the pleural sac may, by accumulating in this, compress the Imig, and thus arrest the further escape of blood from the wounded vessels; the patient at the same time should be made to lie on the injm’ed side, in order to increase the pressure exercised upon the Avounded organ. On the sixth or eighth day the chest should be tapped, or the wound opened again, in order to evacuate the extravasation, and prevent its acting as an irritant to the pleura, or, by permanently compressing and condensing the lung, rendering this useless. In all cases of purulent effusion into the chest, Guthrie advises, with good reason, that tapping should be early performed, in order that the lung may not be draAATi down by false membranes in such a manner as to be imable to expand, AA'hich Avould lead to permanent flattening of the side and impairment of respiration. If any extraneous body, such as a bullet, a piece of wadding, or of clothing, haA’e penetrated too deeply into the chest to be readily extracted through the external wound, it would not be safe to make incisions or exploratory researches, with a A'iew of extracting it; for, though its presence would increase the patient’s danger, yet attempts at extraction Avould not only add to this, but Avould in all probability be fatal. In many cases, bodies so lodged become surrounded by pus, are loosened, and eventually are spat up, or appear at the external Avound. In other cases, they remain permanently fixed in the chest, becoming enA’eloped in a cyst, and so remaining for years, without producing in’itation. In this way, Hennen states, a bullet has been lodged in the chest for upAvards of twenty years ; and Yidal mentions the case of a man AAho Ihed for fifteen years vdth the broken end of a foil in his chest, Avhich, aftei death, was found sticking in the vertebrm, and stretching across to one of the ribs. The routine system of bandaging or strapping up the chest tightly must not be followed in all cases of fracture of the ribs. Ihere are tAvo conditions in Avhich it is not advisable. The first is, where the fragments of the broken rib are sharp and angular, and, projecting inivards on the pleura and lung, pioc iicc pain, distress, and no slight danger of wounding these striictiu’es it pressed doAvn upon them. Secondly, there are cases AA^hcrc the lung has become com