26o EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. a position as to be no longer capable of being brought into apposition to the fingers. In the early treatment of such cases, I have ad^’antageonsly employed Fig. 101.—Defonnity of Biglit Hand from Burn of the Fourth or Fifth Degree. Fig. 102.—Deformity of Left Hand from Burn of the Fifth Degree. the clastic traction of India-rubber bands to counteract the tendency to con- traction of the scar. Similar contractions may occim in the foot, lea’iing gi’eat deformity, as in Fig. 103, where the heel is shown to be retracted, and the whole of the toes spread out in a fan shape. In this case amputation (Pirogoff’s) was the only means left for securing an nsefid limb. Corrosive licpiids, such as strong snlphiu’ic acid, when applied to the sm’face, pro- duce very similar effects to those that result from the more severe degrees ofbiu’u; leading cicatrices contract- ed, irregular, and often, as in Fig. 104, rugged and warty. The contracted cicatrices resulting from burns may, if of recent date, be stretched out by the pressiu’e of strips of plaster, the traction of India-rubber bands, or the action „ . , , • of rack-and-pimoii apprtns. The good effect of tUs plan of treatment is especially marked in contractions at the elbow, or in those that fix the arm to the side. These means are particularly useful ni childi-en, and indeed are so in all cases, provided the cicatrix be not too old—not more than a year ; after that time, it wiU seldom yield without dhision. Operations for the Removal of the Effects of Contraction consequent upon bimis are occasionaUy required ; and, if judiciously planned and executed, may do much to remedy the patient’s condition. The operations that aie practised with this ^uew are of two kinds : 1. Simple cbusion of the lau ty and Contracted Cicatrix ; 2. The Trausplantation ot a flap of adjacent health} Skin into the gap left after the di\'ision of the cicatrix. Fig. 103.—Deformed Foot from Buru of tlie Foiu-tli and Fifth Degrees. Fig. 104.—Wai-ty Cicatrix of Arm resii frig from action of Sulphuric Acid.