2 GENERAL REMAllKE ON OPERATIONS. Operative Surgery is but the application of manipulative methods to the relief and cure of injury and disease. Like every other art, he it manipida- tive, plastic, or imitative, it can only be earned to a certain definite point of excellence. An art may be modified—it may be varied—but it cannot be perfected beyond certain attainable hmits. And so it is, and indeed must be, with that of Surgery. There cannot always be fresh fields for conquest by the knife. There must be portions of the human frame that Avill CA'er remain sacred from its intrusion—at least, in the Surgeon’s hand. That AA^e haA'e nearly, if not quite, reached these final limits there can be little question. When Ave reflect that every large artery in the human body up to the aorta itself has been repeatedly ligatmcd—that each of the six large articulations and many of the smaller bones have been resected—that the am- putation of each limb up to the shoulder and hip-joints is a matter of ordinary surgical occurrence—that large tumours haAuug the most intricate anatomical comiections have been removed from every sm-gical region in the body, from the base of the brain to the lowest organ in the peMc caA'ity—when Ave reflect on triiunphs of the Surgeon’s art that are expressed by operations such as these, Ave can scarcely believe otherwise than that httle remains for the daring of the boldest to deAuse, or the skill of the most dexterous to accomplish, in the extension of that art in the direction of its operative department, and that the Siu'geon must in future be content to repeat, though possibly in a modified and improved manner, those operations that have been inaugmated by the genius and perfected by the skill of his predecessors. It is true that there are yet regions that have rarely been successfully in- vaded by the scalpel, though they haA-e been contemplated as possible seats of future surgical operations. But it has yet to be determined whether some operations recently performed for the remoAral of important organs are more than bold experiments on the power of endiu’ance of the human fr’ame ; Avhether they are surgical triumphs or operative audacities. To my mind, it appears as if we had already reached something like finahty in the mere manipulative art of Siu’gery ; though I hesitate much to use that word “ finality,” for I know weU hoAA^ apt a man is to suppose that art to the prosecution of AA'hich he has deA’oted his life to haA’e attained its final limit of perfectness. Yet, looking at the question as dispassionately as possible, Ave cannot but come to the conclusion that we can scarcely hope to pass far beyond the line at which we have arrived, in the direction of extreme precision and almost absolute certainty in the mechanical performance of the operations of siu’gery, and that in this direction the progress of modem Singeiy is nearly baiTecl. At the same time, we may reasonably exqrect that the details of the methods of practising operations may fr-om time to time be materially modified and improved by the skill of indiAidual operators, by the ingenuity of sm-gical mechanicians, or possibly by the introduction of ucav agents, such as electricity, as aids to oru- art. e >.■ Brrt if modern operatiA’e Sm-gcry has attairred to so high a pitch o per ec ion in all that relates to boldness of conception ami to precision of execution, so that we can scarcely hope to see any further progress in these directions ; and indeed, if the most adA’anced modern Surgery is seeking to lay aside the scalpel and the bistoury for milder methods of treatment—if, m fact, the practical