24S TOISONED WOUNDS. Pai'holog'^ . Ihc appearances found after death throAV no light ■whatever upon the disease, iunl indeed may often he supposed to bo simply the effects of the spasmodic irritation. The tongue, the fauces, the throat, the glottis, and the larynx, the stomach and cesophagus, the brain, the medulla oblongata, and spinal cold, have all been found congested and inflamed; there is nothing, however, in the appearances presented by those parts that affords a clue to the true nature of this inscrutable and terrible malady. In fact, cverthing con- nected Avith hydrophobia is at present in\'olvod in complete obscurity. We neither know what occasions rabies in the dog, nor in Avhat consists the change in his secretions, that enables him to transmit the disease to man. Equally obscure are the processes that are going on at the seat of the wound or in the constitution generally, dm-ing the period that intervenes betiveen the infliction of the bite and the deA'elopmeut of the disease ; and lastly, pathological research has liitherto failed to throw the faintest glimmer of light on the natime of the changes which the neiwous system undergoes, and w^hich occasion the chacteristic phenomena of hydrophobia. Treatment.—This must be principally p-eventive and piUiakm. We can- not speak of curative treatment of hydrophobia ; for, after the disease has once set in, the utmost that can be done -will not accomplish more than to lessen the patient’s sufferings, and stay for a few horn’s the inevitably fatal termination. When a person is bitten by a rabid dog, or even by one that is reasonably nqiposed to be so, the Siu’geon should always adopt energetic means to save tno I atient from the invasion of a disease that is necessarily fatal. In haAdug recoiu’se to preventive treatment, it shoidd be borne in mind that the larger proportion of persons actually bitten by rabid animals do not fall victims to hydrophobia ; the probability of the occiuTence of the disease depending partly upon the animal that bites, and partly upon whether the bite is inflicted on the naked or on the clothed part of the body, and possibly also on individual sus- ceptibility to the disease as has affeady been stated. It is in consequence of this small proportion of persons taking the disease out of the total number bitten, that so many popular remedies and superstitions haA'e obtained an mi- merited reputation for preventing the disease. The only preventiA'e means that can be trusted to by a Surgeon, are excision and caustic. Excision of the part bitten should be carefuUy and freely j)erformed, no half measures being had recoiu’se to. Hence it is better to remove too much of a comparatively unimportant tissue or part, than to allow the sufferer to run any risk of falling a victim to the fatal disease. In order to excise eA'ery part that has been touched by the tooth, the Singeon, after washing the wound and con- tiguous surface Avith strong carbolic acid lotion, should make a circle with ink, or tinctiu’e of iodine, completely round the injimed part. He must then pass a probe to the bottom of the Avound, and excise the whole by scooping out a conical piece of the tissues, taking care to go beyond the fiu’thest limit to Avhich the probe is passed. If there be any doubt of the remoA'al of the whole of the injiu-ed parts, potassa fusa should be applied. If the lip be bitten thi-ough, a portion should be cut out, and the AVOund brought together, as in hai-e-lip operations ; if a finger be injured, it should be amputated. hen the AA^omid is so situated that excision cannot readily be perfoi’med, potassa fusa, or strong nitric acid, or nitrate of sih'er, as recommended by Youatt, should be freely