ARREST OF ARTERIAL HjEMORRIIAGE. 3o6 arterial coats, causing them to give way ; from sloughing ; or from want of proper adhesive action on the face of a stump. When it arises ft’om the latter cause, there is a general oozing or dribbling of blood from many points of the surface, rather than a gush from one orifice. In those cases in which the artery has been tied above the. wound only, haemorrhage is very apt to occur at tliis early period. 2. When haemon’hage occiu’s about the time of the scparatmi of the ligature, it may arise fi'om any of the causes already specified that interfere with the due formation of an internal coagulum, or that occasion ulceration and sloughing of the coats of the vessel. The occun’ence of haemorrhage at this time is often connected with, or dependent upon, that peculiar irritability of the heart and arteries which has already been mentioned as a fr'equent cause of bleeding. 3. Lastly, in some cases in which the ligature has separated but the u'ound has remained open, the haemorrhage may take place either ft’om the cicatrix in the artery being too weak to support the impulse of the blood ; or ft’om the coagulum being absorbed in the way afready mentioned. The continuance of the open state of the wound after the separation of the ligatiu-e, is, I think, not improbably dependent upon a morbid condition of the coats of the vessel which eventually leads to hcEmorrhage. The length of tune that sometunes elapses between the separation of the hgatiue and the occurrence of htemoiThage is very remarkable ; thus there is in St. Thomas’s Hospital a preparation of a carotid artery, fr-om which secondary hgemonhage took place in the tenth week after ligatm'C ; and South mentions a case of ligature of the subclavian in which the thread separated on the twenty-seventh day, the fatal lipmonhage occm’ring in the thirteenth week. The Treatment of Secondary Haemorrhage must be considered, as the bleeding takes place, 1, from a Stmnp; and, 2, from an Ai’teiy tied in its Continuity. In all cases of ligature of arteries, care should of course be taken to prevent, if possible, this accident, by keeping the patient perfectly quiet, givuig no stimulants, having the bowels kept open and the secretions free, and avoiding any undue traction on the hgatiue itself. In primary haemorrhage the rule of practice is, not to uiterfere by operation if once the bleeding have been arrested by other means. In secondary hiemoi- rhao-e this rule does not apply ; but the Siugeon may proceed to adopt effectual means for the prevention of the recurrence of the bleeding after the first out- fUmno-Ti nil flow of blood havc censed when he sees the patient;