IMPAIRMENT OF VISION FROM SPINAL INJURY. 577 long before lie discovers that their sight is enfeebled. This is more especially apt to be the case, as the attention of the Surgeon may not be directed to the state of the eyes in the first instance. The first and most frequent sjmiptom that is complained of is a dimness or iveakness of the sight, so that the patient cannot define the outlines of small objects, and cannot sec in an obscure light. If he attempt to read, he can define the letters often of the smallest print for a few seconds or minutes, but they soon run into one another, become obscured and blurred, and ill-defined. Glasses do not materially, if at all, im- prove tliis condition. There is often in the early stages some slight in-egu- larity in the axis of the eyes, scarcely amounting, however, to a squint. This bliuTing, or indistinctness of vision, is often more marked with respect to near than to distant objects. After a time the patient usually suffers from irritabi- lity of the eyes, and cannot bear a strong light, even that of an ordinary window, in the daytime, or unshaded gas or lamphght. In consequence of this in-itability of the eyes, the brows become involuntarily contracted, and the patient acquires a j)eculiar frown so as to exclude light as much as possible. This intolerance of light may amoimt to perfect photophobia, and is then associated ivith congestion of the conjunctiva and accompanied by lachiyination. One or both eyes may be thus affected. Sometimes one eye only is intolerant of light. This intolerance of light is usually accompanied by muscEe voli- tantes and spectra, rings, stars, spots, flashes, and sjDarks, or an appearance of white-coloured flame. The appearance of a fixed luminous spectrum, a line, ■ciicle, or coloured bar across the field of vision, is sometimes complained of. There is an undue retention of the image in many cases ; and where the patient has looked at any fixed object, such as the sim or the fii’e, complemen- taiy spectral colours, often of the most beautiful character, of varying degrees of intensity, ivill develop themselves in succession. The patient is^in some eases conscious of the circidation in his own eye, which becomes distinctly rfsiblc to him, even in its pulsatory character. From this description of the symptoms of the impairment of vision that follows spinal injury, it would appear that it is of five distinct kinds, ivhich may, however, be associated : 1. Asthenopia, or simple weakness of sight • -. Amblyopia, a paresis of the optic nerve or retina ; 3. Loss or faihue of the power of accommodation; 4. Inltabihty of the eye and photopsia fr-omliyperiemia or inflammation of the optic nerve and retina, which may lead to, 5. Atrophy of the optic nerve. The objective phenomena presented by the eye, and the ophthahnoscopio Tr ft n r “We work “ On Failure of &,ght after Eadway and other Injuries,” states that the eyelids are usTa v W closed, the eyes sunken and watery, the veins of the UaU on^e t d The movements of the pupils are sometimes normal, sometime more slu“vS' comet,mes more active than usual. This will necessarily dependZI S ! e eye be affected by simple asthenopia, or whether there bo some hmer or mflammatory state developed in its interior. “ Ir.ritermm.o Ihe ophthalmoscopic appearances vary greatly. In some n wn . ^ones Obserres, the morbid state on whiei^the iilure “Sd r p