841 PRIMARY BUBO. tliseaso is confined to one groin only, tliougli both may be affected, more par- rticnlarly it' the chancre be situated upon the thenum. I’he suppuration may be limited to the gland immediately affected, or it may extend into the sui- rounding areolar tissue, or even be chiefly confined to this. The true specific virulent bubo is essentially produced by the absoi-ption and Kleposit of the venereal virus in the substance of the gland, the tissue of which becomes poisoned ; so that we may consider with Ricord that a viru ent bubo is properly speaking, a chancre of an absorbent gland, differing only m seat from that which is situated upon the surface of the body. Ricord has observed, and I have often had an opportunity of testing the correctness of this obser- vation, tiiat the pus of a ^drulent bubo is as readily inoculable as that of aii ordinary chancre. This kind of bubo, then, may be considered as a .<^pec>fic abscess of the absorbent glands and surrounding areolar tissue. It rims the ordinary course of an acute abscess, often undermines the skin to a consider- able extent, with much red or purple discolouration, and, when it has biu’st or been opened presents a ragged sloiighly-looking cavity, having an unhealthy appeanince ; it most usually occurs about the second or third week after the first appearance of the chancre, but may happen at an earlier or at a later period, even after the chancre has itself healed. A rai-e form of bubo is that which forms within the abdomen in the lymjihatic glands in this situation. It is a very dangerous variety, and may prove fatal by rupture into the peritoneum and peritonitis. Primary Babo.—The French Surgeons have described a form of bubo that they call bubon cVemblee ox primary bubo; this is said to occiu- from the direct absoiption of the chancrous matter, without the previous formation of a chancre. Scarcely any satisfactory proof, however, has been given of the existence of such a bubo. It frequently happens that small excoriated chancres heal in a few days, before which time, however, the inguinal glands have become in-itated and enlarged ; and, as the enlargement of the glands goes on after the healing of the chancre, a bubo may be formed when all trace of its primary source has entirely disappeared. This primaiy bubo has fallen under my observation in one case only. Until that occurred, I doubted its existence ; and I am not yet ffully convinced that this suggested mode of origin is the true one. In the case refeiTcd to, a young man applied to me with a rather large abscess in the gToin, for ivhich I sent him into the Hospital. On being questioned, he denied ever having had any venereal disease, though he admitted having had intercoiu-se with a woman of the town. On examining the penis, no chancre, abrasion, or cicatrix could be discerned. The abscess was opened, and two ounces of rather bloody and very thick pus were let out; no enlarged glands could be seen. For the sake of experiment the pus wtis inoculated into the left thigh, and two distinct and well-marked pustules were produced. That such an eft’ect can be obtained by matter of very irritable character without any venereal origin, is shown by the cxpei’iments of several Surgeons who have succeeded in inoculating matter from itch and ecthymatous pustules ; hence it must not be concluded in this case that the bubo was consequent on the direct absorption of venereal matter along the lymphatics. Crop,piny Bubo.—In some cases the bubo, as has been well shown by Solly,