ARREST OF ARTERIAL HJEMORRllAGE. 3o8 the vessels. The rest will cease on the application of cold water and on raisino- the stnmp. The flaps may then be brong’ht together by strips of plaster and a bandage, and will iisnally very readily miite. Should, however, the stimip be inflamed, sloughy, and oedematous, and more particularly if it be merely the foot or hand that has been removed, then, instead of opening it up, and seeking for the bleeding vessel, deeply hidden in infiltrated tissues, it will be better to tie the main artery of the limb just above the flaps, or wherever it can be most readily reached. In sueh cases, after amputation of the foot, I have successfully tied the posterior tibial low down, just above the malleolus. The third alternative, that of ligatiuing the artery high above the stump, should, I think, in the fii-st instance, be undertaken in those cases oifly where the amputation has been done close to the trimk, as at the shoulder-joint, or the middle or upper part of the thigh, and where consequently there is no length of hmb to be noiu’ished by the artery that is ligatimed, and where opening up an almost cicatrised stump of very large size would inflict a greater shock upon the system, and more subsequent danger, than the dehgation of an artery by an independent operation. Hence, although in no case of secondary haemorrhage from a leg-stump below the knee would I ligatiu’e the femoral in preference to opening up the flaps and seciu-ing the vessels in them, if this were practicable, yet in secondary haemorrhage after the amputation of the thigh, the case might be different; and here, if good union had aheady taken place, and the stump were not distended by coagula, the main artery might be tied. In such cases it is clearly useless to ligature the superficial femoral, as the hjemonhage may, and most probably does, proceed from some of the branches of the profunda. Ligature of the common femoral is not very successful; and upon the whole it would, I think, be safer, if all other means have been tried and have failed, to deligate the external iliac just above Poupart’s hgament. In disarticulation of the ana at the shoulder-joint, the subclavian artery must be tied, either above or just below the clavicle. In any case, the ligature of the main artery of the limb becomes the only and the last resotnee, where, in consequence of the softened, inflamed, infil- trated or sloughy state of the tissues, the Singeon is imable to secure the bleeding vessels in the stump itself, the hgatures cutting through the dis- organised coats of the vessels. 2. When the heemonhage occurs after a hgatine has been applied to the Continuity of the Vessel, whether for injiuy or disease, pressm-e must fii-st be tried. With this view the woimd should be plugged, and a graduated compress should be very firmly and carefully apphed by means of a ling-tom- niquet over the point from which the blood proceeds; in this way the bleeding may occasionally be stopped. Not nofr’equently, however, this_ udll prove ^ ineffectual, the bleeding reciuTing from underneath. HTen this is the case, what should the Surgeon do ? He may re-apply the compress once more uith gTcat care, after clearing away coagifla, and drying the parts thoroughly ; but should it again fail in arresting the bleeding, it is useless to trust to it again, as the haemonhage will certainly recur, and valuable time and much b oo u i be lost in these fr-uitless attempts at checking it. In such a case as this, the I Surgeon must clearly and decidedly determine on the course to be pm succ, as |