ARREST OF ARTERIAL ILEMORRIIAGE. 272 CHAPTEK XIV. —♦— ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAJMORRHAGE. The arrest of arterial hEemorrliage is perhaps the most important topic that can engage the Snrgeon’s attention, as on the safe accomplishment of this the success of every operation is necessarily dependent. In studying this subject we must first investigate the Means that are adopted by Natimc for the Sup- pression of Htemorrhage ; and, secondly, the imitation of these by Siu-gical Art. NATtTEAL ARKEST OE HJEMORRHAaE. The history of the investigations into the means adopted by natm’e for the arrest of hfemorrhage is full of interest to the Simgeon, and is excellently given in Dr. J. F. D. Jones’s v^ork on Htemon’hage. No subject in sin-geiy affords a stronger evidence of the advantage of the application of “Experimental Pathology ” to practice, than this, as onr knowledge of it has been wholly o-ained by experiments on the lower animals; and by the sacrifice of the lives of a few dogs, donkeys, and calves, those of hundreds—^probably of thousands of human beings are annually preserved. Petit, who published several memoirs on this subject in 1731 and followmg years, states that ha3morrhage is arrested by the formation of two clots—one outside the vessel, which he calls the “ Convercle,” or Cover ; the other inside, the “ Bonchon,” or Ping—the first being formed by the last di'ops of blood that issue, the second by the few drops that are retained. These clots by their adhesion to the internal coat of the vessel and to the orifice, he says, stop the iDleediug. When a ligatin-e is applied, a similar clot forms above it. He recommends compression, and the support of the clot. Morand, in 1730, added much of interest. He admitted the formation of coao-ula, blit insisted on the importance of the changes in the artery itself; which, he showed, became corrugated, contracted, and retracted. ^ Morand entertained erroneous views as to the stmctine and functions of arteries, but he established the great fact that changes occin in the arteiy itself. Sharp, in the second edition of his work on Operative Singeiy, pubhshed 111 1730, sup- ported the same doctrine. tt 1 Kirkland in 1703, wrote an excellent treatise on the subject. He showeci that htemorrhage was lessened by swooning, and that an ai-tery contracted up to its nearest collateral branch ; and he was of opinion that the coagiilum did not arrest the bleeding. His views were adopted and supported by lute, Gooch, Aikin, and other surgeons of his day. nf J. Boll took a retrograde step by denying the retraction and contiactio 1 ot the artery, and the importance of the internal coagnlnm, and by attributing the aiTest of haemorrhage solely to the injecting of the sinTonnding aieolai tissue Avith blood.