392 FRACTURES. up again fiimly, so that the ends of the bone are l^roiight into close aiiposition, may bring about perfect union. In some instances of unmiited fracture or delayed union m syphilitic subjects, union speedily takes place after the admi- mstration of some preparation of mercury or iodide of potassium, according to stage of the constitutional affection. I have had imder my care at the Hos- pital, a man wffh ununited fracture of the femiu- from absorption of the callus foiu’ months after the occim-ence of the injmy, under the influence of incipient phthisis and debility induced by want of food : perfect consolidation of the fr-acture was produced by giving him cod-liver oil and good diet, with rest in bed and a starched bandage to the hmb. Hence it is evident that impaired nutrition may preAmnt union, even after callus has been deposited, and that improvement of the nutritive activity of the body may of itself lead to consolidation of the fragments. If there be no very evident cause for the Avaut of union, it will occasionally suffice to put up the fr-actine fii-mly in leather or gutta-percha splmts, mth a starched bandage, and then to allow the patient to move about upon crutches, so that his general health may not suffer, at the same time that a tonic plan of treatment is followed. I have seen several cases in which the want of union appeared to have resulted fr-om too long confinement of the patient to his bed, and the consequent impairment of his health, consolidation taking place when a more favoimible hygienic system was enforced. This simple plan can, however, only be useful if but a short time, at most some months, have elapsed from the occiuTence of the injiny. In some cases, the empirical administration of meremy is attended with success. In a case of immiited fr-actine of the humerus that was admitted into the Uni- versity College Hospital under Liston, fifteen weeks after the occiuTence of the injiuy, union was induced AAuthin a month by putting up the limb in splints, and salivating the patient. When the Avant of luiion arises fr’om malignant disease, nothmg can be done. At the same time, with appropriate constitutional treatment, suitable local means must be employed to secine steady coaptation of the fragments. In the upper extremity, this may usually be done by means of splints of an ordinary character. In the leg, the starched or plaster of Paris bandage Avill be found to be especially serviceable. In the case of ununited fracture of the thigh, special apparatus AviU be required to seciue complete fixity and steadiness of the hmb. For this pm-pose, the limb should be put in an apparatus, consisting of an outer and an imier iron rod haAung hinge-joints opposite the hip and ankle, and attached above to a strong pelvic band, and below to the sole of the boot. The thigh part should be provided with Avell-padded splints, which may be scrcAA'ed down in opposite dhections against the two fr-agments, so as to hold them fh-mly in contact. This instrument should be worn for several months ; and by it Smith, of Philadelphia, has succeeded in cming ten out of fourteen un- united fractures in the lower extremity. One great reconunendation is, that this plan of treatment is entirely devoid of danger, and enables the patient to take exercise whilst under treatment. In cases Avhere there are much shorten- ing of the limb and riding of the fr-agments, Avhich are especially apt to occur in the thigh, it Avill be necessary to employ extension of the limb as aa ell as compression of the fragments against one another. This extension may be made by the lateral hon rods of the above-described apparatus being con-