POISONED WOUNDS. 246 nature of the disease. This catch is due to the spasmodic descent of the diaphragm, and gives rise to severe pain at the pit of the stomach, or to a feeling of suffocation and a return of tlie convulsions. In consequence of this spasm ot the diaphragm, the patient makes from time to time a loud hiccuping noise, which has been likened to the bark of a dog. 2. Excessive Sensibility of the Cutaneoirs Uerves, and of some of the Nerves of Special Sense, is characteristic of hydrophobia. The cutaneous nciTOs become so sensitive that a blast of cold air, the rustling of the l^ed- clothes, the slightest touch of or movement on the skin, will bring on convul- sions. The nerves of sense become equally excitable, so that a sudden flash of light before the eyes, as the reflection of the sun from a looking-glass, or a sudden noise, as the slamming of a door, will produce the same effect. The noise produced by liquids being pom-ed fr-om one vessel to another is peculiarly distressing to the patient ; and EUiotson mentions a case in which a patient with hydi’ophobia was thrown into ^dolent agitation by hearing the dresser who sat up with him void mine. The sufferings and convidsions that patients experience when they attempt to drink, appeal- to be owing to excessive sensi- bility of the nerves of the mouth and pharynx, and the recollection of these sufferings makes them afraid to repeat the attempt; hence the fear of hquids fr-om which the disease derives its name. 3. One of the earliest symptoms, and one of the most persistent, is extreme Mental Agitation and Terror, a vague sense of dread and horror at the im- pending fate. Spectral illusions sometimes occm-, the patient supposing himself to be sm-romided by animals, by horrid forms, or by gajiing, ghastly, and grinning countenances, by flies or wasps. The first symptoms in the Duke of Eichmond’s case was, that he fancied some poplar-trees opposite his bedroom window to be men looking in. These delusions may alternate with fits of delirium, terror, and fr-enzy. In these it is said that the patient barks like a dog, and endeavom’s to bite ; but this is a popular error—the pretended bai-k is merely the catch in breathing, and the attempt to bite is nothing but move- ments of the tongue and mouth induced by the viscid and ropy saliva. Occasionally the symptoms subside completely before death ; the increased sensibility of the surface disappearing, the mental agitation or delusion being removed, and deglutition and respiration being quietly performed. Thus, j Latham relates the case of a man laboiu-ing under this disease, who sat up | quietly in bed and drank a pint of porter half an horn- before he died. The Sm-geon is sometimes asked to give an opinion as to the condition of a dog that has bitten a person, and which is suspected of being- mad. The following description of the symptoms of Rabies in the Dog, by Dr. Bm-don Sanderson, will aid him in coming to a conclusion on these points. “The premonitory indications of rabies in a dog are derived ahnost entirely from the observation of changes in its demeanour ; consequently, I although they may be too trifling to be noticed by a casual observer, they are fortunately sufficiently striking to arrest the attention of any one who is about a dog, and is familiar with its habits and individual pecuharities. “ A dog about to become rabid loses its natiu-al livehness. It mojies about as if preoccupied or apprehensive, and seeks to vuthch-aw into dark cornei-s. From the first there is usually a foreshadowing of that most constaut symptom