372 FRACTURES. detain ns here ; bnt those that arc more special and peculiar to fractiu'cs, require consideration. Crutcli-palsy of the hands and arms may ocem.’ as the result of coiujiression of the brachial nerves against the pad of the crutch. The whole plexus, or only one of its component nerves, as the musculo-spiral, or ulnar, may be affected. The remedy is obvious—it consists in the discontinuance of the use of the crutch, and, if need be, the employment of electricity to the palsied muscles. Spasm of the Muscles of the Iiimh, owing to the indtation produced by the fragments, is often very severe so long as the' fracture is left imreduced; the shai-p end of the broken bone puncturing and irritating the surrounding muscles. It is best remedied by reduction, and the maintenance of the fracture in proper position by moderate pressure with a bandage. In troublesome cases, compression of the main artery of the limb has been recommended by Broca. If the spasm be dependent upon nervous causes, fall doses of opium will not unfr’equently afford relief. In some cases it is of a permanent character, pro- ducing considerable displacement of the fragments. In these circumstances, division of the tendons has been recommended ; but this practice appears to be an uimecessarily severe one, and may certainly most commonly be avoided by attention to the other plans of treatment which have been suggested. CEdema of a broken limb may occur fr’om several causes, viz., over-tight bandaging, dependent position, pressm-e of blood, extravasation, or inflamma- tory effusion. It is of no great moment in itself, but may be of consequence, as indicative of a liability to gangrene if left unreheved. The proper relief may usually be afforded by loosening the bandages, and elevating the limb. The oedema, which is often very persistent after the cm-e of the fracture, is best relieved by diligent friction, bandaging, and attention to position. Considerable Extravasation of Blood is fr-equently met mth in cases of simple fracture, causing great swelling and tension. By the continuous apph- cation of cold evaporating lotions, the collection is usually readily absorbed ; and the Siu’geon should never be tempted by any feeling of flmd or of fluctua- tion to open it, as he would thereby infallibly convert the simple into a com- pound fr-acture, and give rise to extensive ill-conditioned suppm-ation. ^ In some of the cases of extensive extravasation, the limb appears to reheve itseh of the serous portion of the blood effused, by the formation of large buUse or ~ 1 -11 *1 I T 1. /-\TI bleb's which may be punctured, or else allowed to burst and subside, uflthout any material inconvenience. This extravasation very rarely, indeed, runs into flhsppss • if it do, it must of course be opened, and treated upon ordinary prm- ciples. ’if deeply effused it may lead to gangvene, by the constriction compression which it exercises on the vessels of the hmb. _ Gangrene as a compheation of simple fracture is a most serious mischance, and on^ from which it is difficult for the Surgeon to exonerate himself without blame But he is not always in fault. It may arise from causes residing in the'limb. It may be contributed to by the neghgence of the patient in not drawino- the Surgeon’s attention to early symptoms, after ha^ng been duly w^rd! Gangrene of the limb (Fig. U5) may occur after simple frac lire ^ Z result (1) of tight bandaging ; (2) of the swelling of the linib and com- pression of the vessels consequent upon extravasation of blood, oi (3) of matory infiltration causing strangulation within a bandage that has been at