VENEREAL DISEASES. 8s8 natino- the poison froni the system ; 2, by tlic preparations of iodine, which aic supposed to be specific in a minor degree than mercury in this disease: and 8, by simple attention to the state of the general health, ivithout any attempt at specific treatment. These different principles may be employed simul- taneously or consecutively. As a general rule it may be stated that, the loimer the inten-al that separates the constitutional from the primary symptoms, Uie more they partake of a tertianj character, the less necessity will there be for specific treatment, and the more important will be the employment of all means calculated to improve the health. ^ Ot the value of mermrij in constitutional syphilis, eveiy Surgeon of expe- liencemust have had abundant proof. It may admit of doubt whether mercury can be justly considered as exercising a specific action, as there are some cases of the disease that it certainly does not appear to influence in a beneficial manner, and others the severity of which is certainly increased by the adminis- tration of this remedy ; but it appears to me that in these cases it is rather the patient’s constitution, which does not bear the remedy weU, than the disease that is at fault. We know that in many states of the system, and in many individuals unaffected by syphilis, mercury acts injmdously, more especially when anything like cachexy is present; and we caimot but suppose that the same injimious influence on a particular habit of body must continue, though it be contaminated with the poison of syphihs. The best proof that we possess of the influence of mercury over constitutional syphilis—an influence, indeed, that ahnost approaches to the natime of a specific action—is in the case of infantile syphilis ; here mercury wiU not only ciu’e the disease, but will eradicate the virus from the system in a way that no other remedy can accomplish. In the treatment of constitutional syiDhilis Avith merciuy, everything depends on the proper administration of the remedy at a suitable period of the case, and in a fitting condition of the constitution. The question as to the pro- priety of the administration of meremy in constitutional syphilis, the par- ticular preparation to be used, and the period of the disease in which it should be given, must be determined in a great measure by the previous treatment of the primary disease, by the condition of the patient’s general health, and by the din-ation of the secondary symptoms. If merciuy have been freely given, perhaps in repeated, irregular, and ill-conducted courses, for the ciue of the primary affection ; if the patient have fallen into a cachectic state, haifing lost flesh, colour’, appetite, and spirits ; if the constitutional affection have assumed the tertiary form, and have deeply implicated the bones, merciuy should not be given at all; or, at all events, not ivithout proper previous preparation. In these circumstances I think we should endeavour, if possible, to remove the constitutional affection without mercury. It is true that in marry cases ive shall not succeed in doing so ; but at least ive improi^e the health, check the disease, and brirrg the patient irrto a proper condition to sujrirort a merciuial coiuse, should it be thought necessary everrtually to subject him to orre. It is in these corrditiorrs of the system that the mtro-nviiruiticacklixaA.sarsaparill((> are of much service. From twerrty to thirty minims of the dihrte acid, with half arr ourree of the fluid extract of sarsaparilla irr four ounces of ivater, may be admirristcred three times a day. To this the iodide of potasmnn, in five-