209 TRAUMATIC GANGRENE. is so cri’cat as directly to kill its whole substance. Thus, if a limb be crushed to a pulp by machinery, or by the passage of a hea\y waggon over it, all circu- lation is completely and at once an-ested, the vitality of the part is destroyed outright, and it Avill speedily fall into a state of putrefacti-^'e decomposition, with all the usual signs of advanced mortification. If the violence be not quite so gi’eat as this, the vitality of the part may be lessened and its resisting power diminished to such an extent, that the inflammation necessary for the repair of the injury terminates in gangrene. This is a local traumatic mortification, evincing no disposition to siu’ead beyond the part injured, but being bounded by a line of demarcation along which it 'will sepai’ate. It is not always easy to distinguish this direct form of gangrene fi-om such discoloration and disorgani- sation of a limb as are still compatible Avith life. In all cases of doubt the Surgeon must Avait, and a very short time—a few hours—aauU be sufiicient to declare whether the vitality of the part can be maintained or not. In cases of much doubt an incision might be made into the part, and the true state of things thus ascertained : but tliis should not be done if it can possibly be avoided. •2. The injiuy may be chiefly inflicted upon the great A'essels of the limb, damaging them to such an extent as to intemipt comjAletely the circulation ; gangi-ene being thus induced indirectly in the parts supplied by them. This form of gangrene we shall haA^e occasion to treat of folly when speaking of Injuries of the Ai’teries. 3. The true traiunatic or “ spreading gangrene,” the most fatal variety of mortification, is most commonly the result of seA'ere contused and lacerated Avoimds, particularly Avhen complicated Arith fractures. It has a tendency to spread rapidly, especially thi’ough the areolar planes of the limb, often involA’ing the AA'hole member in less than twelve hoims after its invasion. The true Spreading Traumatic Gangrene is invariably of the dark and humid kind. In it, death of the tissues and their putrefaction are contempo- raneous. The putrefactive process does not take place in this, as in the other A aneties of gangrene just described, some hoiu’s, or days even, after the cessation of vitality in the pai’t; but the piu'plish-black coloiu’, the foetid odoiu’, and the development of gas, occur at the moment of the death of the tissues, and ai’e CArdently dependent on some peculiar septic condition of the parts attacked by the disease. It differs from the other varieties of gangrene in having no dis- position to limit itself by a line of demarcation, as Avell as in the rapidity of its extension and the speedy putrescence that occurs in the part attacked. The Causes of this form of traumatic gangrene ai’e local and constitutional com lined, The, Local Causes consist of injuries, more particularly contused anc aceiatcd Avounds of the hand or foot. As a general rule it may, perhaps, )e statec tha,t the more seA'ere forms of injury of this description, more especially such as implicate joints or bones, are more liable to be folloAved by this form of f,angicne ; but it AA'ould be an error to srrppose that severe injury is a rrecessary precursor of it. Comparatively slight injm-ies, provided they be of the nature ^ accrated Avounds, have irot unfi-equcntly bcerr the occasioiriiig cause of way in Avhich trarmratic gan- slran™hhV,ri’'“t '■ “igorgement of tlio tissues, and consequent fail planes of tbo VOL. I.