494 • SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. tins dislocation, as tlie only effect is to diwy tlie slit in the capsule and the two heads of tlie short flexor more tightly than ever round the neck of the bone. Vciy se\ere extension has been employed without any effect; and there is the tiadition in the surgical profession in Jjondon of a thumb hai'ing' been dragged off in the attempt to reduce this dislocation by pulleys. If the Siu’geon fail in reducing the dislocated phalanx by manipulation under chlorofonn, as above described, or by traction, what is to be done ? In these circumstances, the dislocation should not be left without a fiu’ther effort to replace the bone ; and this may usually be readily enough done by the subcutaneous section of the resisting structures. The Surgeon must bear in mind that the obstacle to reduction is purely mechanical; that muscular contraction has nothing to do> with it.; and that it is quite as great when the patient is antesthetised as when he is not. He must therefore enlarge the slit in the capsule, and divide the tense bands formed on each side by the tendinous attachments of the short flexor. This operation is best done by passing a tenotome through the skin in front of the joint, and cuttiug first on one side, then on the other. The chief resistance will be found on the uhiar side of the thumb, where the tendinous insertion of the adductor poUicis is probably divided at the same time as that of the short flexor of the thumb. After these structines have been cut through, the phalanx can be replaced, and the thiunb shoifld be put up securely between splints. AVhen reduction has been effected, care must be taken to prevent the recur- rence of the displacement. This is best done by keeping the thiunb bent into the palm, and retaining it there by means of a gutta-percha cap moulded over it and bandaged dovm. If the dislocation be left luu-educed, the thumb will to a great extent become useful, but necessarily shortened, deformed, and incapable of much flexion. In Compound Dislocation of this joint, the bone may usually readily be replaced ; should there be any diflaculty in retaining the bone in position, its head must be removed, the dislocation being then reduced with great readiness, and the wound treated in a simple manner. Dislocations between the Phalang-es rarely occiu. These dislocations arc partial or incomplete, and usually consist of a twist of the second upon the proximal phalanx. I do not think that simple dislocation of tke migual phalanx from the second is possible. Partial dislocat on of the middle pha- lanx, which is a very common accident, is readily recogiused by the deformity it entails (Fig. 222), and is easily reduced by pressure and traction in proper