VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. 353 in males, in consequence of the extreme frequency of fracture of the lower end of the radius in women above middle life. In children, more than one halt the fractures occurring in the upper limb are of the clavicle. Fi-acture termed Spontaneous sometimes happens without any very direct cause, or under the influence of violence that would usually be insuflicient to occasion it. This may happen in consequence of the texture of the bone being weakened or rendered brittle by disease, such as mollities or fragllitas ossiiun, by the cancerous cachexy, by syphilis, by cancerous gi'owths vdthin the sub- stance of the bone, or by the pressiu-e of some neighboiming tumour causing absorption. In other cases, again, it occurs vuthout any apparent disease, local or constitutional. This usually happens as the result of the brittleness and weakening induced by age. I have knovui a gentleman little above fifty, appai-entlyin perfect health, break his thigh with a loud snap Avhilst tiuning in bed. In these cases union rarely takes place, or not without much difficulty. But spontaneous fractimc of the femur has more than once been met mth in young men apparently quite healthy, from the sudden and ffiolent contraction of the thigh muscles, as for instance in pulling off or drawing on a boot. As a rule, union readily takes place. Sex indirectly influences the liabihty to fr'acture, men-being more fre- quently exposed to the causes of this injury than women. In women, the bones that are most commonly fractured are the clavicle, the tibia, and the neck of the femur ; in men, the shafts of the long bones, the cranium, and the pelvis. From statistical accounts it would appear that the right limbs are more frequently broken than the left, being more exposed to violence. The suppo- sition that the bones are more brittle in winter, and hence break more readily than at other seasons, is altogether a mistake ; though fi’actures may be common at this period of the year, fi’om falls being more fi’equent. Varieties.—Fractures present important varieties as to their Nature and their Direction. The varieties as to nature depend upon the cause of the frac- tiue, its seat, and the age of the patient. Nature.—Fractimes are dimded into two great classes, according as they are unaccompanied or attended by an open wound leading down to the line of breakage in the bone—the first being called Simple, the second Gonypoimd. In the first class are included the Simple Fracture, where the bone is merely broken across, split, or fissured ; the Impacted, where one fragment is wedged into another, the compact tissue being driven into the cancellous structime ; the Comminuted, where the bone is broken into several fr-agments ; and the Multiple, where there are more fractiues than one. iWhen the soft parts are torn through, so that the fractm-e communicates by a wound with the surface of the body, it is said to be Compound. A fi’acture may be rendered compound in two ways ; cither thi'ough laceration of the soft parts by the same injury that breaks the bone, as when a bullet in traversing a limb, fractures the bone ; or else by the protrusion of one of the extremi- ties of the broken fragments through the integiunents. This necessarily most frequently happens when the fragments are sharp and pointed, and the coi’cr- ings thin, as in fractine of the tibia, and may be occasioned by muscular con- traction, or by some incautious movement on the part of the patient, driving the fragment through the skin. VOL. I. A A