TUMOmiS. 742 to the wa Is, and floating m the interior, are a number of grannlar melon- ceddike bodies, greyish or yellow in colour, semi-transparent, elongated or irregular in shape, usually rather hard, but sometimes soft and flocculent. 1 he fluid contents of these cysts arc usually thin and serous, of a yellowish or brownish^ coloim. In their progress they are found to increase up to a certain size, when they usuaUy thicken and harden, in conseciuence of the hbious transformation just described ; or else they inflame and suppurate in an unhealthy manner. They may occur in any of the situations in which bursm naturally exist or are accidentally formed, but are most commonly met ivith upon the knee-cap, the nates, or the flrst joint of the great toe, where they give rise to the attection known as bunion. The simple foims of cystic tumours of the ovaiy may be placed under this head, as they arise from dilatation of the Graafian vesicles, and are filled with a more or less clear serous fluid. They sometimes attain an enormous magnitude. The Treatment of the cysts derived fr-om bursie consists in attempting their absorption by the use of stimidating plasters ; or, if this fail, in the removal of their contents by tapping. Their cavities are then closed by exciting inflam- mation and sujipiu’ation within them, by the introduction of a seton, by injec- tion with stimulating solutions, or by the subcutaneous section. If these means fail, excision will be required, more especially if the tumour have be- come dense and fibrous. 2. Cysts that result from the New Formation of a Closed Cyst, and the Distension of it by the Secretion from its Lining Membrane. Under this heading must be included {a) Dermoid Cysts ; (h) Serous or Simple Cysts ; (c) Compound Proliferous or Multilocular Cysts; ((?) Sanguineous Cyst or Hsematoma, (ci) Dei*moid Cysts.—These were described by Lebert as presenting thi’ee chief var- ieties. 1. Cysts closely re- sembling in structure the ordinary atheromatous cyst before described, only occiu’- ing in situations in which sebaceous follicles are not nor- mally found. These are rare. 2. Cysts whose walls ju’csent all the structiu’es of true skin ; cuticle, papiUte, cutis vera, sweat-glands, sebaceous fol- licles, hau’-follicles, and hair. (Fig. 275). Their contents are usually rather thinner than those of the ordinaiy atheromatous cyst, though closely resembling them in appearance. Often a small ball of coiled- up hair is found inside the cavity. The contents are the accumulated Fig. 275.—Wall of Dennoicl cyst from the Ann (40 diam.) !i. Epklennis. Ij. Hair follicle. c. Sebaceous gland. d. Surrounding connective ti.ssue with small masses of fat.