APPLICATION OF BTARCHED BANDAGE. 367 teudency to those injurious consequences tliat often result from these injuries ; and, by enabling the patient to keep up his health and strength by open-air exercise, it facilitates the consolidation of the fracture. In addition to this, the patient will often be able to cany on his business during treatment. By employing the starched bandage in the way that u'ill be iumiediately pointed out, I scarcely ever find it necessaiy to keep patients in bed Avith simple frac- tures of the leg for more than six or seven days, thus saAing much of the tediousness and danger of the treatment. The foUoAA'ing is the mode of applyiiig this apparatus that is adopted at the University College Hospital, and Avhich aaHI be found to ansAver Avell. The Avfrole limb is euA'cloped, as recommended by BurggTaeA'e, of Ghent, in a layer of cotton-wadding, Avhich is thickly laid along and over the osseous promi- nences ; this, being elastic, accommodates itself to the subsequent diminution in size of the limb, and keeps up more equable pressure. Over the cotton- Avadding are laid sph'nts of thick and coarse pasteboard soaked in thin starch, properly shaped to fit the limb. The pasteboard should be soft, not milled, and be doubled and torn down, not cut, as in this AA'ay the edges are not left shaqn If much strength be not required, as in children, or in some fr-actures of the upper extremity, a feAV slips of broAAm j)apcr, Avell starched, may be substituted for the j)asteboard. A bandage saturated A\'ith thick starch is now firmly applied ; and lastly, this is covered by another dry roller, the inner sides of the timis of AA'hich may be starched as it is laid on. JSTo roller or bandage shoidd be applied directly to the fr-actm-ed part under the splints : its apj)lica- tion is always painful and difficult, and it is attended Avith danger of constric- tion or abrasion. Both the pasteboard splints and the starched bandage should ahvays include the t>vo joints above and beloA\^ the fracture, so that Fig. 142.—Application of Seutin’s Filers to Starciieil llamlage. complete immobility of the fraginents may bo secured : the hip and knee A\hen the thigh is broken ; the knee and ankle Avhen the leg is fractured. Durino- the application of this apparatus, extension miist be kept up by an assistant, so as to hold the fracture in position ; and, until the starch is thoroughly dried.