697 FREVENTION OF ERYSIPELAS. time is thus left for constitutional rally, or for recovery of strength. The/ww of the disease influences greatly the result; the cutaneous variety being attended with least danger, the cellular with the most. Tlie danger in erysipelas vnll depend gi-eatly upon whether the disease be traumatic or idiopathic. The traumatic is infinitely the most dangerous. This is probably due to the ad- mission of air, and the accompanying organic matter, into the inflamed cellular tissue through the wound. The same condition, indeed, that renders an open Avound much more dangerous than a subcutaneous one, renders traumatic infinitely more fatal than idiopathic erysipelas. Much also depends on the seal of the affection; that attacking the head and loAver limbs being the most dan- gerous ; encephalitis being apt to ensue, Avhen the head is affected. When the legs are extensiA'ely implicated, sloughing of the skin and areolar tissue, with denudation of the bones and destruction of the joints, may occiu’. The disease in all its forms, is most dangerous at either of the extremes of life. If the con- stitution be sound, very extensive mischief may be recovered from ; if, on the other hand, it be depressed or broken by want of the necessaries of life, by fatigue, OA^er-exertion, or indulgence in stimulants, a very slight amomit of disease may prove fatal. The most dangerous compheation of erysipelas, and one which when it exists almost precludes the hope of recovery, is chronic disease of the Mdneys, either in the form of the granular contracted, or of the large Avhite kidney, Avith albuminuria. I have never seen any patient labouring- under these diseases, and attacked Avith traumatic erysipelas, escape Avith life ; the sloughing and suppuration running on unchecked by any treatment that could be adopted. The particular which the erysipelas may assume, and the occiurence of gastro-intestinal or pulmonary complications, will also seriously affect the result. Treatwext.—Preventive Measures.—The occurrence of erysipelas is best guarded against by attention to hygienic measures, more particularly proper ventilation AAuth pine air, and the aA'oidance of OA’ercrowding of patients. In hospitals, erysipelas might be produced at any time by want of attention in these respects, and the frequency of its occurrence may most materially be lessened by careful regulation of the hygienic conditions that sun’ound the patient. Mith every cai'e, however, erysij)elas can neA’er be completely eradi- cated from singical wards, as it is often ejiidemic, brought into the hospital from AA'ithout, and in many cases the conditions that lead to its develojDment have influenced the patients so deeply before their admission into hospital, that no subsequent attention can prevent its occm-rence afterAvards. It often hap- pens that erysipelas is unusually fr-equent in certain Avards and even in certain beds. Its persistence in these respects Avill be found to be owing to some local eause, such as the emanations from a drain or dust-bin, on the removal of Avhich the disease AA’ill cease. kScrupulous attention to cleanliness also on the part of nm-ses and dressers should be enforced, and the latter should not be allcAAnd to go straight from the dead-house to the Avard Avithout previously AAnshiiig their hands in some disinfectant or antiseptic solution. When erysipelas has aheady occurred, its further spread may be prevented by isolating the affected patients, an at once taking active measures to purify the Avard from Avhich they have been removed. iicuo dhe Curative Treatment of erysipelas must always be conducted with