INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 534 occurrence ; but Zeller, Valleix, and others, ha'S'e detenniued its existence. It appears as a fluctuating tumour, without discoloration of the scalp, but with a hard elevated circle aroiind it, and a soft depressed eentre, almost communi- cating the sensation of a hole in the cranium. Pressru’e, however, gives rise to no cerebral symptoms, and enables the Surgeon to feel the osseous lamina at the bottom of the depression. These tumours are usually small, seldom larger than a walnut, and it not unconunonly happens that they are multiple. It is worthy of note, hoAvever, that each tumoiu- is always confined to a separate bone, never passing beyond the sutures, where the adhesions are the strongest between the pericranium and the subjacent osseous structiuo. This affection is. said to be most frequently met with in children born in first confinements, and is more common in boys than in girls ; according to Bouchard, in the propor- tion of thirty-four to nine. The Pathology of this affection has been studied by YaUeix. This Surgeon fonnd that the pericranium was separated from the bone by an extravasation of blood, and that both bone and pericranium were covered vdth plastic matter, but otherwise healthy. He also found that the hard cucle surrounding the depression was formed by a deposit of osseous and plastic matter which bounded, the extravasation. This deposit was effected in such a way that, on a trans- verse section being made, the inner wall was found nearly perpendicular, whilst the outer sloped down upon the cranium, thus giving a crateriform appearance to the margin of the tumour. The Treatment of this affection must be conducted upon precisely the same principles as that of the other forms of scalp-extravasation. Worans OP the Scalp are of very common occruTence, and are more serious than corresponding injiuies elsewhere, especially in persons about the middle period of life, and of unhealthy or broken constitution. Not only are these injuries more hkely to be foUoAved by erysipelas than those of other parts of the body, but the great tendency to the propagation of inflammatory mischief inwards to the encephalon, and to the compheation of cerebral mis- cluef, often accompanying comparatively slight injmfles of the scalp, gives to these accidents much of their serious and often fatal character. But, though there be this danger to hfe in scalp-injiuies, there is comparatively httle risk to the scalp itself; fr-om the abundant supply of blood Avhich it receiA'es from closely subjacent arteries, and its consequent great A'itality, sloughing seldom occius, even though the part be much bruised and seriously lacerated. . i j. ..i The Treatment of wound of the scalp necessarily varies somewhat accoiU- ing to the nature of the injmy. If this be a simple cut, it will be sufficient, after shaving the parts around and cleansing its interior, to bring it together with a strip or two of adhesive plaster, and to efress it as lightly as possible. If the incision in the scalp be extensive, the lips of the wouiid must be brought together by a few points of metallic sutiue, or by hair-lip pnis. there be arterial hmmon-hage, this may usually be best arrested by passing the pins across and under the bleeding vessel, and compressing this with a hguic- of-8 suture. In this, as in all other cases of injmy of tie ea , cspccic attention should be paid to the state of the biain ; foi, houevei sit, i cxtenial wound may be, serious cerebral misehief may hav e been occasioncc