SUliGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 886 cold, or on the occurrence of constitutional derangement. The patient should, therefore, for some length of time after reco\'ery, be careful not to expose him- self to any such influences. In the more rapidly spreading and worst forms of lupus exedens, that liorrible disease termed by the older Surgeons “ Noli-me- tangere,” nothing can be done beyond the relief that is afforded by the adminis- tration of opiates, and a general sedati’^-e plan of treatment. 3. Rodent Ulcer is one of those remarkable affections that stand midway between simple and malignant diseases ; being, so far as constitutional causes 01 secondaiy complications are concerned, apjiarently of a simple nature, while, to a certain extent, in regard to structui'al condition and entirely in respect to- local effects, it is of a mahgnant character. The disease is especially charac- teiised by its slow progress, by its eroding nature, and by the impossibility of heahng it by all ordinary methods of treatment. It is essentially a disease of advanced age, seldom beginning before 45 or 50. Its duration is in any given case indefinite ; seldom less than five or six years, occasionally extending* to twenty or thirty. It affects individuals of either sex indiscriminately ; and deeply into the cancellous structure, as of the head of the tibia or the diploo of the skull. It erodes and eats away the bone, without caries or necrosis. It may penetrate to the dura mater, and invade the brain. It progresses, however, by preference superficially, not in depth; hence it is seldom at- tended by hcemorrhage, even in the more advanced stages. The neigh- usuaUy occurs in persons who are otherwise perfectly healthy. The health also is not influenced materially, if at all, by its long- duration. I have seen persons, who have been victims to it for more than twenty years, in apparently robust health. But it is even- tually and inevitably fatal, unless remo'S'ed by oj)eration. rig. 325.—Rodent Ulcer of back of band. Amputation. It may affect any part of the head, face, or extremities. The face is its seat of election, especially in the upper parts, such as the forehead, the side of the nose, the imier angle of the eye, or the temple. It spreads simply by continuity of tissue, never by disseminated local or by secondary deposits. It may invade all tissues; the skin primarily, the pinna of the ear, the alse and septum of the nose, the parotid gland, the conjunctiva and the eye- ball. It is especially destructive to bone when once it attacks it, and will spread