TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 231 the more advanced stages, however, free incisions, which should Ije made in the direction of the axis of the limb, are commonly required in order to lessen inflammatory tension, to prevent the extension of sloughing, and to fiu'our the escape of discharge. The best mode of lessening inflammation in a gun-shot wound in the early stages, and more especially in hot climates, is either cold irrigation or the application of dry cold by means of ice in India-rubber bags, conjoined with position and rest; at a later period, water-di-essing and poultices will be more useful. As suppuration comes on, we must substitute warm applications for the cold, so as to hasten the formation of matter and the separation of the sloughs, whilst disinfectants should be freely used to the whole cavity of the woimd. All bagging and burrowing of matter must be carefully guarded against by position and pressiu’e and drainage, and, if need be, a counter- opening. Free incisions may also now be required. These should not be delayed too long. They may be required for two purposes ; first, to remove the tension resulting from deep infiltration of the limb by inflammatory effusions, and by that means to prevent the strangulation of the tissues, and remove the severe constitutional reaction that is always consequent to and dependent upon this local inflammatory tension; and secondly, to ojjen up piu-ulent collections, which often depend upon the irritation of splinters, portions of clothing, and other foreign bodies that could not be removed in the fii'st instance. When the inflammatory action runs very high and will not yield to the measiu’es just enumerated, it may be necessary to compress or to tie the main artery leading to the part. At the period of the loosening and separation of the sloughs, there is always especial danger of the supervention of consecutive haemorrhage. The patient, consequently, at this time requires to be carefully watched; if the womvd be in the vicinity of a large vessel, a tourniquet should be placed loosely round the limb, so as to be screwed up at a moment’s notice ; and, on the supervention of bleeding, the artery must be ligatured, if possible, at the seat of the wound, or, if this be not practicable, in the most convenient situation above it; and if this do not arrest the bleeding, recourse should be had to amputation. In secondary haemorrhage following gun-shot wounds, Neudbrfer recommends the employment of a temporary ligatme. The method adopted by him consists in exposing the arteiy exactly as in the ordinary operation for the ligatm'e ; a silk thread or a wire is then passed round the vessel, and the two ends are carried sejoarately through the soft parts of one side of the womid, so as to appear about half an inch from the edge, and about half or three-quarters of an inch apart. The cuds are then fastened to a half cylinder of cork, and are left fr’om forty-eight to seventy-two hours, when they are removed. Serious results, such as abscesses, profuse discharges, necrosis, osteomyelitis, and the separation of splinters of bone, must be subsequently looked for in many cases ; and these results may be prolonged for many years, at last perhaps wearing out the patient if the cause of irritation be not removed. hus General J3cm required to have a buUct removed by Liston fr-om the cxtemal condyle of his femur, nineteen years after it fii-st lodged there ; and 1 arshal Moncey died forty years after the receipt of a gun-shot wound, from J s ettccts. A soldier who was wounded at the storming of the Redan, died