340 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. found in n, woman who was under my care for a wound of the fore-arm, by which the ulnar nerve had been divided, that, twenty-one days after the injury, the tcmperatiu’e between the ring and the little finger of the injured side was 9“ Fahr. below that of the same spot in the opposite hand. The Secondary Effects of division of a nerve consist in various modifica- tions of sensibility, not only in the parts supplied by it, but also in some cases, as in the instance of punctm-e, in the proximal part of the trunk of the injiued nerve above the seat of its division. These effects, consisting of neuralgic pains and sensations of all kinds, and of varying degrees of intensity, from creeping and tingling up to real tic, are always associated vith more or less paralysis, and are doubtless due in a great measiue to the compression of the injured part of the nerve by infiammatory exudations, and the condensation of its sheath by plastic deposits. Besides these effects, the nutrition of the part supplied by the injiued nerve becomes seriously modified. The part becomes congested, bluish, oedematous, and colder than natural. The skin becomes rough and peels, or the seat of vesicular or bulbous eruptions, which are apt to degenerate into sluggish and unhealthy ulcers. The muscles become flabby and wasted ; and ultimately defonuity of various kinds may ensue from the distiu'bance of the proper balance of antagonism between the different sets of muscles of the part. As union gradually takes place between the opposite ends of the divided nerve, the various phenomena that have just been described gradually subside, and complete restoration of the nonnal sensibihty, mobihty, and nutrition of the part eventually takes place. In some important cases, however, this does not happen, and, the nerve about the seat of its division becoming imphcated in a mass of dense cicatricial tissues, a traumatic neiuoma is developed, which, just as in similar conditions in stumps, may become the seat and the source of the most intense sufferings—the neiualgic pains dai-ting hke electrical shocks downwards to the tei-minal branches, and upwards along the tnmk and the secondary divisions of the affected nerve. Repair.—If a cut nerve be examined shortly after the injmy, it will be found to have become shghtly bulbous at the extremity, nervous matter having- escaped fr’om the neurilemma, and fibrine being thrown out around and between the two ends. Restoration of the continuity of the nerve evidently takes place, as is shown by the fact, that in the course of a few months its fmictious o-raduaUy become re-established in its lower part, the paralysis slowly dis- appearing. If, however, a portion of the nerve have been actuaUy excised, there is'^no restoration of function, as was shown long ago by Haighton. Schwann and Hasse have found the return of sensibihty and motion in the lower part of the nerve to be owing to nerve-tubes forming in the muting medium, and thus serving to estabhsh the continuity of the neiwe In the Treatment of a cut nerve, little can be done except to lessen the sufferino-s of the patient; if a sensation of heat be complained of, by t e application of cold ; if the part be too cold, by stimidating embrocations and The ne„;algia resnUmg ft™ the impliyion ft" Mrre by condensed cicatricial tissue has teen ^ "'y’' dissected the nei-ve out of the midst of this, nathont dmdmg or othmuse injuring it.