130 INFLAMMATION. dropped off. In this way from half an ounce to an ounce of blood may be taken by each leech. There is usually no difficulty in aiTcsting the haemor- rhage from the bite ; should there be any difficulty, continued pressure with some scraped lint, felt, matico, or powdered alum, will generally succeed. If this do not, which may happen in some situations where pressure cannot l:>e conveniently applied, as on the neck and abdomen, particularly in young childi'en, a piece of nitrate of silver scraped to a point, or a heated wire intro- duced into the bite, previously wiped dry, or a needle with a twisted suture over and around it, may be required. Ouppinf] is the most efficient means of removing blood locally that we possess, and the quantity extracted may be regulated to a nicety. It cannot, however, be employed upon the inflamed surface itself, on account of the pain and irritation that it would occasion, and is consequently chiefly ap- phcable to internal inflammations. As the scars made by the scarifleators continue thi’ough life, cupping should not be practised upon exposed surfaces. Cutting off the Supply of Blood fr’om the inflamed part by the ligature of the main artery leading to it has been adopted in some cases. Thus, in acute inflammation of a joint, the main artery of the hmb has been tied ; the femoral, for instance, in inflammation of the knee-joint. By many Smgeons, and by most patients, the remedy would be considered far worse than the disease for the cure of which it is proposed. Vanzetti has recommended digital pressure on the arteries in inflammation. He has, for instance, related a case of severe acute inflammation of the hand, relieved by twenty-foiu’ hours’ continuous pressiu’e on the brachial artery. Neudbrfer speaks highly of the proceeding, which he regards as simpassing all others in efficacy, even rendering ininecessary the ordinaiy antiphlogistic treatment. He recommends intermittent pressm’e for not less than three and not more than eight minutes three or four times a day. The method is ap- plicable to inflammation of any part of which the artery is within reach; and though we may not go so fai‘ with Neudorfer as to suppose that it obviates all necessity for constitutional treatment, it appears to be a remedy far preferable to local blood-letting. In Gold and Heat we possess two most important local means of controlling inflammation. They cannot, however, be employed indiscriminately. Cold.—There are two stages of inflammation in which cold may be employed Avith especial advantage: first, during the very early and acute stage, rather with a view of preventing or limiting the inflammation, so that it may not pass beyond the bounds of adhesive action; and next, when acute inflammation has passed off, the vessels of the part remaining relaxed and turgid: the apphcation of cold being a powerful agent in restoring the tone of the parts. Cold should never be had recourse to between these stages, when supina- tion is coming on, or has set in; still less should it be employed when there is a tendency to mortification. Its long-continued and incautious use may indeed be followed by profuse suppuration or extensive sloughing. The modes of applying cold vary according to the part affected imd s i of the inflammation. In the early and acute stage, and when the « inflamed, evaporating spirit lotions, to which sedatnes inay wliole advantag’eously addeci, me the best. If it be wished to influence the whole