DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 902 I dcpsiid oil tliG more or less complete involvement of the cord by the iiijiny, or the depth of its disintegration by disease. There may only he a very slight impairment or loss of harmony of motor power in the limbs, or there may be any increase of this impairment up to complete loss of all motion and sensa- tion in them. In many cases the sphincters of the bladder and anus are unaffected, or they may completely lose all controlling power. These forms of paralysis often afiect the two lower limbs very unequally, both as to the extent of the loss of sensation and motion, and as to the impaiiment of one power rather than the other in one or other of the extremities. The symptoms A'ary from a simple drag of the foot, with no appreciable loss of sensation, to complete inability to walk or even to stand, and to absolute insensibility to the applica- tion of the most powerful galvanic stimulant. These forms of spinal paralysis,, when arising primarily from injury to the vertebral column, more particularly from its fracture, are often associated with intense neuralgic pains, which dart along the line of junction between the sound and paralytic parts ; when they arise from secondary inflammatory afiections of the cord, they may be attended by the various symptoms indicative of myelitis, whether in the acute or the subacute form, such as spasmodic dra-wing up of the great toe, cramps in the legs, or neimalgic darting, with abnormal modifications of sensation through the limb. 3. Pressure on a Nerve at some part of its coiu’se, between its origin and the termination of its main branches, is a frequent cause of local traumatic paralysis, often of a somewhat transitory character. A famihar instance of this is afforded by the loss of power, both sensitive and motor, that is often noted in the hands and arms of people using and leaning heavily on crutches. The same partial paralysis frequelitly accompanies certain forms of spinal injiu’y, more especially wrenches or twists of the vertebral column, causing effusion into the structures that siUTOimd the nerves on their escape from it, and thus inducing compression of their trunks closely to their origin. The three nerves that are more commonly affected in this form of traumatic para- lysis are the Sciatic, the Circumflex, and the Musculo-Spiral. Tranmatic paralysis of the sciatic nerve is commonly the result of sprain of the spine in its lower part. In it the whole nerve is rarely, if ever, implicated ; but the loss of inneiwation, motor or sensory, is usually confined to one of its principal subdivisions : most frequently the external popliteal is the one affected. In consequence of this the foot is drawn somewhat inwards, di-ags on its outer side, cannot be properly everted, and thus the patient acquires a peculiarity of gait which is very characteristic. In walking, he does not advance the foot as far as the sound one : he brings it forward Avith a rotatory movement, efravung or dragging the foot along the outer edge and heel. The limb generally is weak, the patient being unable to stand on it alone; and most commonly it is the seat of neiualgic pains or of referred sensations of an intermitting natiue. Traumatic paralysis of the circumflex nerve, giving rise to loss of power in the deltoid and teres minor muscles, leads to a peculiar condition of the shoulder, that presents such very marked sigus, taken collectively, that it cannot well be mistaken for or confounded vith any other state. In consequence of some slight injury of the shoulder, a stiaiii oi tvist, a