SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF BONES. 867 to the temples, and the administration of calomel and opium internally, at the same time that a strong solution of atropine is put frequently into the eye. Most commonly, as the mouth becomes aflected by the mercurial, the eye uall clear, the lymph becoming absorbed, and the pupil regaining its normal shape and colour. In some cases, however, a chronic inflammation continues ; here the best efiects result from the administration of small doses of perchloride of mercury, with repeated blistering to the temples ; and, in a later stage, soda and bark may be advantageously given. T). Syphilitic Periostitis or Nodes may occur on almost any of the bones ; but the disease is most commonly met with on the tibia, the clavicle, or the bones of the forearm. Some joints are also not unfrequently affected by it ; the sterno-clavicular articulation and the knee-joint are especially often its seats. Nodes are indolent, elongated, uniform, and hard swellings, sometimes tender on pressiue, and generally but little painful dming the day; but at night the aggravation of pain is peculiarly marked, and constitutes perhaps the most distressing symptom. They consist of a thickening of the periosteum, mth some plastic effusion within and rmdemeath it, and occasional thickening of the subjacent bone ; they may continue permanently or may terminate by resolution ; they never suppurate, unless there be disease of the subjacent bone. The Treatment consists, if there be much tenderness, in the application of leeches ; if there be no great sensibility on pressiue, but considerable nocturnal pain, blisters should be applied. When the nodes are in a chronic state, the tinctiue of iodine is an useful application. Nodes sometimes become soft and prominent, and feel semi-fluctuating, especially when seated on the cranium, so as almost to tempt the Surgeon to make an opening into them ; this, how- ever, shoidd never be done, as the swelling, however great, will subside under proper treatment. For the ultimate removal of the tumour, and the relief of the nocturnal pains, we possess an excellent and sure remedy in the iodide of potassium, earned to large doses. Other flbrous membranes besides the periosteum may become diseased, and masses of dense lymph, in the form of warty tumours, excrescences, or nodes, may be deposited upon them as the consequence of the syphilitic inflamma- tion. This is particularly the case with the dura mater of the brain and cord. As one of the ulterior effects of tertiary syphilis, structural changes of this kind may take place in and upon the diua mater of the brain, giving rise to hemiplegia and epileptiform seizures, and eventually coma and death, partly from pressure, partly fi-om initation. If the cliua mater of the cord be affected by nodes, more or less complete paraplegia 'will result. 6. Diseases of the Bones are amongst the more remote and severe effects of constitutional syphilis, when it has reached the tertiary stage. By some Surgeons they are said to be the result of the administration of mercury, rather than ot the syphilis for which the mineral is given. This doctrine I believe to be entirely without foundation. That they are met with in syphilitic cases m which no mercury has been given, there can be no doubt. 1 have had under my care patients with extensive disease of the cranium and ot the clavicle, whose syphilis had been treated from first to last on the non-mcrcurial plaft. One patient especially, a soldier, from whom I removed 3 K 2