378 FRACTURES. numerous liioccs by a tall from a <>Teafc height on both knees, the limbs feeling- like bags of loose fragments of bone at the seat of the injiu-y ; yet, as neither the skin was broken nor the A'essels injured, though lioth knee- joints appeared to be disorganised, the limbs were preserved, and good union ensued. Compound Feactuku.—A compouud fr-acture is that form of injury in which there^is aii open Avouiid leading down to the broken bone, at the seat of fracture. This injmy is not only far more tedious in its cure than simple fracture, but infinitely more dangerous. The tediousness depends upon the communication of the fr-acture Avith the external air, causing it to unite by a sloAv process of granulation, instead of by the more speedy adhesive action that ocem-s in the simple form of injury. The danger is likewise partly due to the same cause ; the process of granulation and suppination being often attended by profuse discharge of pus fr-om abscesses, by long-continued exfoliation of bone, or by the supervention of secondary disease, such as hectic, phlebitis, pyaemia, or erysipelas, so as to lead to the eventual loss of limb or life. Besides these dangers, AA^hich may be looked upon as indirect, the violence that occasions a compound fractm-e often shatters the limb to sueh an extent, as to lead to the immediate supervention of traumatic gangrene, to the loss of life by haemorrhage, or to the certain and speedy disorganisation of the limb, as the consequence of the reactionary inflammation. Question of Amputation.—^As, therefore, compomrd fr-actine is attended not only by great prospectfr'e dangers, but also by serious immediate risk, the fii’st question that ahvays presents itself in a case of this injury is, AA^hether the limb should be removed, or an attempt be made to save it. It is of great importance to settle this point at once ; for, if amputation be determined upon, it should be done Avith as little delay as possible, there being no period in the progress of the case so favom-able for operation as the fii'st foin-and- twenty horns. Should an injudicious attempt have been made at saA-ing the limb, the Sm-geon must wait until suppnratiA-e action has been set up before he can remove it; and then, he will very commonly find that the occinrence of some of the diffuse inflammatory affections of an erysipelatous character Avill render any operation impracticable ; or the siqDervention of traumatic gangrene may compel him to amputate in the most unfavourable circiun- stances. At a late period in the progress of the case, amputation may be required, in order to rid the patient of a necrosed and suppinating limb that is exhausting him by hectic. It is true that primary amputations are very commonly fatal, especially Avhen practised near the trunk ; yet this caimot Avith justice be urged as an argument against their performance, as recourse should never be had to 2}rimarii mnputation except in cases in which it is evident that the patient’s fife must in all probability be sacrificed by the misuccessftfl attempt to saA'e the limb. In determining the cases in Avhich immediate amputation should be performed, no A’ery definite rules can be laid doAvn, and much must at last be left to the indiAddiAal judgment and experience of the Singeon. One will attemijt to save a limb Avhich another condemns. But, in coming to a conclusion upon this imiAortant question, he must beai’ in mind that, though it is imperative to do CA’orything in his power to save a limb, yet the preservation of a patient s