TUMOURS. 8o6 the widely spread infiltration of cancer-germs tlirougli tissues that had a healtliy appearance, when recim-ence will take place after a lapse of some weeks oi> months, in the shape either of uniform infiltration of the cicatricial tissue, which assumes the appearance of an elevated hard ridge of a pui-plish-red colour, or of nodules which rapidly coalesce. When it recurs in the lijm]]halic fjlands, it is because they were infiltrated with the cancer-geims before the removal of the original tumour. They become hard, and often develop into secondaiy growths, rivalling the primary disease in size and rapidity of gi-owth. hen the secondary deposit takes place in internal organs, it is usually met with in the liver or the lungs. In such cases it is reasonable to presume that cancer-ceUs or portions of cancer-plasma enter the blood, arc carried into the general current of the circulation, and are deposited in these organs, there forming the rruclei of new growths. Eecmrerrt carreer, in whatever situation it may occru-, is more rapid irr its corrrse than the primary form of the disease. It may prove fatal in various ways ; by exhaustion from local discharges or hemorrhage ; by the induction of arr anemic cachexy, in which the nutritioir of the system becomes so impaired that death results from inanitiorr ; or by the inductiorr of internal disease of an acute character, as low pneumonia, pleuritic effusion, or ascites, according as the irrternal deposit is thoracic or abdomirral. The disease is especially apt to reem* soon if the skin have become involved, if the lymphatic glands be enlarged, or if there have been constitutional cachexy before the operation ; also if the tumoiu’ be gTOvdng rapidly at the time of removal, and especially if the patient be robust and strong, with a florid complexion. In determining the adrisability of operating in cases of cancer, several ques- tions of great importance present themselves to the consideration of the Siu’geon. He has first to consider whether the operation is hkely to rid his patient com- pletely of the disease ; or, in the event of its not doing so, whether life may not be prolonged by the removal of the cancerous tumom*; or, lastly, whether his sufferings may not be much lessened by the removal of the local affection, although there be no prospect of really prolonging life. The principle on which all operations for the removal of cancer are under- taken is this : either that, the disease being local ai) origins, the constitutional and secondary manifestations can be prevented by a timely removal of the local and primary deposit; or that, even if the tumour be the result of a con- stitutional predisposition or vice roused into activity by local causes, the exci- sion of this morbid deposit removes from the system a new centre and soui’ce of constitutional infection ; so that, if the operation be unsuccessful in completely eradicating the disease, it may yet be productive of much good in preventing the contamination of the system from this new centre of mox’bid action. The two following questions will therefore present themselves to the Surgeon in considering this subject. 1. Can cancer be cured, or rather completely extirpated from the system by excision ? That in some cases a cancerous tumour may be removed with eA'eiy expec- tation of the patient being completely freed fr-om^ the disease, cannot, I think, be doubted ; although it may be true that such instances are rare. Yet they do occasionally fall under the observation of Surgeons, and certainly seem to