y6o ABLE NT) A TO VOLUME J. adliesions of the dura mater to the louver surface of tlie hone, could for an instant beheve that the arhria mmim/Pa nmlia has power of throwing- out its blood to the effect of tearing up these adhesions from the entire half of the cranium ! _ He then describes the following experiment to show that the dura mater is first of all separated from the skull, and that the extraA-asation is consequent on that separation : - Strike the skull of the subject with a heavy mallet ; on dissecting, you find the dura mater to be shaken from the skull at the part struck. ^ Repeat the experiment on another subject, and inject the Jiead minutely with size-injection, and you will find a clut of the injection lyim-- betwixt the skull and dura mater at the part struck, and having an exact resemblance to the coagulum found after violent blows on the head. I imao-inc this is conclusive ” (qtp. 4G6—G7). “ Page 8^32. 14.—INFECTION OF SYPHILIS. In speaking of the mode of propagation of syphilis, lYiseman says : “ It is frequent to mention other secondary ways of the propagation of it; as lying in the same bed with an infected person, lying in the same sheets after them^ or wearing their cloaths Drinking ivith one so affected, or sitting on the close-stool after them, are likewise mentioned among the causes of infection. These are all such convenient excuses for the more shie and coy patients, that it is a pity to discoimtenance them ” (IViscman : “ Several Ghirurgical Treatises. Of Lues Venerea,” London, 1G7G). Page 035. 15.—GALVANO-PUNCTUBE : THE ELECTBIC AND THEBMIC CAUTEEY IN N.EVUS. Superficial nmA'i may readily be destroyed by means of the Galvanic Cautery, or by Paquelin’s Thermic Cautery. But this method of treatment is not ■applicable to n-aevi situated in deep cavities, or amongst important structures. In such cases the galvano-punctm-e may be employed vltli the view of decomposing by electrolytic action the contained blood, and thus causing the obliteration ofthe nmvus by coagulation. The details of this method are identical with those of galvano-pimcture in the treatment of aneurism, and Anil be found fully described in Vol. II., p. GI.