822 SCEOFULA AND TUBERCLE. Strumous Inflammation,—One of tlic most marked cliaraeteristies of struma is certainly tlie peculiar modification that inflammation undergoes, whether we regard the course that it takes, the form that it assumes, its pro- ducts, or its seat. The course of inflammation in strumous subjects is always slow, feeble, and ill-developed, the more active and sthenic conditions being rarely met with. In its form it is usually congestive, ulcerative, or suppura- tive; and in products it is characterised by little tendency to adhesion, by the production of thin, blue, Aveak, and ill-developed cicatrices, and by the formation of thin, curdy pus, Avith much shreddy corpuscular lymph. The seat of strumous inflammation varies greatly ; and peculiar modifications of coiuse, form, and products are assumed, according to the part that it aftects. The tissues implicated by it are cMefly the skin and mucous membranes, the joints, and the bones, occasioning a great variety of special diseases, according as one or other of these structm’es are affected. It is as the result of, or in connection with these local affections, that the general symptoms of struma become most marked. Whatever the A'ariety of temperament may be, the individual usually emaciates, becomes sallow, cachectic, and debilitated, and at length falls into hectic or marasmus. When affecting the SMn, scrofula declares itself under a variety of cutaneous eruptions, especially the different forms of eczema of the scalp, and various ulcers on the siuface, usually Aveak, and largely granulating, with considerable swelling of the siurounding parts, and a tendency to the formation of thin blue and glazed cicatrices (Fig. 316). The integuments of the AA^hole of the limb may become so much diseased in this way, oedematous, infiltrated, and covered by flabby ulcers and fistulm, the extremity being perhaps double its natural size, that amputation is the sole resource. ^ The Mucous Membranes are commonly extensively affected, and often pre- sent the earlier forms of scrofulous disease in childhood ; this is more especially the cascAAdth those of the eyelids and nose. The conjunctiva becomes chronic- ally inflamed, perhaps Avith ulceration of the cornea. The mucous membrane