NyEVUS. 934 removal of wlncli they slowly fill out again to as large a size as before ; they also become distended when the child screams or struggles, and are usually oval, smooth, and uniform. The skin covering the tumour is often un- affected ; at other times it is implicated in an oval patch on the most prominent part of the growth, and occasionally the surrounding veins are bluish and enlarged. Structure.-—CaifiUary nmvi appear to be composed of a congeries of small tortuous capillary vessels ; venous ntc'S'i appear made up of thin tortuous veins, dilated into sinuses and small pouches. In the midst of these masses, cysts are not uncommonly found, sometimes containing clear, at other times dark, sanguinolent fluid. These cysts are probably venous sinuses, the openings into which ha-^^e become occluded. (See also p. 759). Prognosis.—The natural history of ntevi has yet to be learnt—we have yet to ascertain what becomes of them when left to themselves. They are so commonly removed by operation, that hitherto Surgeons have had but few opportunities of determining this. I have, however, seen several cases in which fL’om various circumstances no operation had been performed, and I have been struck with the tendency that there is in the cutaneous naevus to disajDpear. If left untouched, or subjected to continuous pressine, islands or jiatches of white skin will gradually appear in the reddened sinface. These will slowly increase and coalesce, and then the mevus, becoming gradually less vascular, may in time disappear. Subcutaneous venous nasvi will sometimes gradually shrink, but the active erectile uaevus is pro- gxessive. There is usually a fear expressed of naevi, if left without surgical interference, leading to dangerous or even fatal haemorrhage. This I have never seen ; indeed, if the nmvus ulcerates its tissue hardens, and the vessels become blocked up by coagulum and plastic deposit. Treatment.—In the treatment of neevus, the first point to be detennined is whether the case should be left to natm-e, or whether operative measures should be had recom’se to. In deciding this point we must be guided by the size, situation, and character of the morbid growth. If this be small, cutaneous, and superficial, so situated that it occasions little or no disfigm-ement, and if it show no tendency to increase, it may be left without interference; when, as just stated, it may eventually shrivel and disappear, or become converted into a kind of mole. In some cases this process may be hastened by the ajDphcation of tincture of iodine or liquor plumbi. In other cases, again, the ntevus, though cutaneous and superficial, is so widely diffused over the surface, that no attempt at its removal or destruction can be entertained vlth prudence. But, if the nmvus be large, if it be subcutaneous, or if it increase in size, or if it be so situated as to occasion disfigmement, means must then be adojited for its removal by operative procedure. Operations for the removal of mevi may be conducted on five principles : 1, to excite adhesive inflammation in them, and so to produce plugging and obliteration of the vascular tissue of which they are composed ; 2, to destroy the gx'owth by caustics ; 3, to remove it by the galvanic cautery ; 4, to remove it with the knife; or, 5, to remove it by ligatme. Each ot these different