48 A21FUTATI0NS. jiit.f'iudi, uccomiiig gTadiially tmimer. In some cases the spiciilafced jDart is very sharp-edged; in others, as in Fig. Id, it is somev-hat smoothed by long contact mth ’the pus that has sim-oimded it. Conical or Siujar-loaf" SkmjJs, as they are called, commonly foma either in consequence of the flaps having origmally been cut too short, or from the bone iiothaAing been sawn off snfiicientlyhigh above the angle of the flaps • but in other cases they may occim, though the stmnp has been skilfully flxshioned in ■consequence of the soft parts, which have been the seat of inflammatory action mid snppiu-ation before the amputation, retracting dining the granulating pro- cess so as to denude the bone. In such cases as these, great retraction and contraction of the flaps are apt to go on during cicatrisation, so that the bone may never be covered at all, but be exposed at the bottom of an iiritable ulcer ; or, if the soft parts do coalesce, the cicatrix udll be unable to support the slightest pressure without becoming idcerated. In these circumstances, the only remedy consists in laying open the stimip, and cutting off about three inches of the bone. If the stump be too long and projecting, so as constantly to be in the patient’s way, there is no remedy but to perform a second amputation higher up. This is especially re- qiu’red in badly fashioned stimips of the leg, where c the limb has been re- the patient uses a wooden pin. But these reductions of badly fashioned stumps •should not be lightly undertaken, for the mortality is great after such operations. Amarismal Enlargement of the arteries of a stump is extremely rare. The only case with which I am acquainted is one described by Cadge, in which an aneiu'ismal varix between the posterior tibia! artery and veins formed in a stump after disarticidation of the ankle-joint (Fig. 15, a). Painful and Sjmsmodic Stumps.—The nerves in a stump natm-ally become somewhat expanded and bulbous ; and no material inconvenience results from this condition. But it occasionally happens that a distinct tuberose enlarge- ment forms in connection with one of them, and attains the size ot a cheriy or •a walnut; and, this being pressed against the end of the bone, the stimip Becomes the seat of intense pain of a neuralgic character, more particularly whenever it is touched, ivhen a sensation like an electric shock is felt. In •such circumstances, excision of this bulbous extremity of the nerve, or resection moved too far below the knee, so that it jirojects backwards in an awkward manner, and is constantly liable to accident when Fig. 15.—Aiicurismal Varix in a Stump.