510 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. superior angle of the bone lieing Avedgod in the Hulcondyloul space. If relaxa- tion of the muscles of the thigh, and the employment of proper pressure upon the patella, do not succeed, reduction may perhaps be effected by the patient making a sudden and violent muscular effort at extension of the limb, or by attempting to Avalk. In other cases the bone has been readily replaced by bending the leg, and rotating it on the axis of the tibia, at the same time that the patella is pressed into position, as Vincent recommends. Upon the Avhole, forcible flexion of the knee appears to have answered better than any other method, and under chloroform Avill probably seldom be attended by difficulty. Should these plans not ansAver, I do not think it would be advisable to have recourse to subcutaneous section of the tendon of the quadriceps extensor and of the ligamentum patellm. In one case in which both these structures were divided, the patella remained as firmly fixed as ever, and the patient eventually died of suppurative inflammation of the knee-joint; and in no case in which dmsion has been practised does it appear to have facilitated reduction. 4. Dislocation of the patella Upwards can only occur in consequence of the ruptiu’e of its ligament. This accident, AAUich is ahvays accompanied by much inflammation of the joint, requires the same treatment as a fractured patella. Dislocations op the Knee.—This joint, oAving to the breadth of its articular siu’faces, and the great strength of its ligaments, is seldom dislocated. When such an accident happens, it usually arises from falls from a great height, or by the patient jumping fr’om a caiviage in motion. The tibia may be dis- placed in fom’ directions : to either side, forwards, or laclcwards. Besides these displacements, the joint is subject to a partial luxation, dependent upon displacement of one or both semilunar cartilages. 1. The Lateral dislocations of the tibia are the most common. They are always incomplete, and are usually accompanied by a certain degxee of rotation of the limb outAvard. These displacements may either be External or Internal. In the first, the outer condyle of the femur rests upon the inner articidar sur- face of the tibia. In the other, the iimer condyle is placed upon the outer articular surface of the head of this bone. In either case, the knee is slightly flexed ; there is a marked sulcus in the situation of the ligamentum patella) ; the extensor muscles of the thigh are relaxed, and the deformity of the joint indicates at once the natime of the displacement. In these cases Reduction is always easy ; indeed, it is occasionally effected by the unaided efforts of the patient or by a bystander. It may be accom- plished by flexing the thigh upon the abdomen, then extending the leg, and, at the same time, by a movement of rotation, replacing the bones in their ^ 2? The dislocation Backwards may be complete or incomplete. When it is complete, the posterior ligament of the joint is tom, the muscles of the ham^ are stretched, the limb is shortened to the extent of an inch and a half or two inches, and is semiflexed ; the head of the tibia can be_ fel in the ham, and there is a deep transverse depression in finiit of the joint immediate y beloAV the patella. 3. The dislocation than the last accident. of the tibia Forwards is of more frequent occurrence In it, the loAver end of the femur is felt projecting into