§94 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. smarting, or creeping feeling on the affected surface ; in some instances re- lieved by pressure, in others increased by the slightest touch or movement of the part. Occasionally there is spasm in the museles supplied Ijy the affected nerve ; in other cases, there arc heat and redness of the surface, with increased secretion from the neighbouring organs, as a flow of saliva or tears when the neives of the jaw or eye are implicated. The duration of an attack may vary from a few moments to many days or months. The pain is most commonly intermittent or remittent; it is often in-egularly so, but in some instances the periodicity is well marked. Situations.—This disease may affect almost any part of the body; it is most commonly seated distinctly in the trunk and branches of a nerve. The divisions of the fifth pair are the most frequent seat of neuralgia ; the pain may extend to the whole of the branches of this nerve on one side of the head and face, but more commonly it is confined to one of its principal divisions, such as the infraorbital, which is especially liable to be affected ; in many in- stances it is seated in the temporal and dental nerves. Not unfrequently some of the terminal twigs alone of one of these nerves become the seat of intense pain ; thus occasionally the affection is found limited to a patch on the cheek, brow, or temple, from which it scarcely ever shifts. The posterior branches of the dorsal spinal nerves, and the intercostals, are also very commonly affected, though not to the same extent as the fifth pah-. In other cases the whole of an organ, or part, becomes the seat of nem-algia, though no one nerve may appear to be distinctly implicated; thus the testes, the breast, the uterine organs, or one of the larger joints, as the hip or knee, are occasionally the seats of severe suffering of this kind. Extreme cutaneous sensibility is a marked feature in some cases ; the patient wincing and suffering severely whenever the skin is pinched or touched, however lightly. Causes.—The causes of this painful disease are very various ; they may be constitutional or local. It seldom occurs in strong and healthy individuals, but is almost invariably associated with want of power, unless it be occasioned by some local mechanical cause. Depressing injimnees of all kinds are especially apt to produce it; thus, debilitating diseases, mental depression, and particu- larly exposiu-e to malaria, are common occasioning causes ; those forms of the disease that arise from malarial influences, or from exposure to simple cold and wet, usually assume a very intermitting or periodical character, and are com- monly seated in the nerves of the head. The hysterical tempierament very frequently disposes to the spinal and articular forms of neuralgia. There is no constitutional condition with which neuralgia is more fr-equently associated than with anmmia ; hence its frequency in females. As Romberg somewhat poetically says, “Neiu-algia is the prayer of the nerve for healthy blood.” Tarious sources of peripheral irritation, as loaded bowels, the irritation of worms, carious teeth, uterine disease, and calculus, may be recognised as producing some of the more obscure varieties of the disease. Neuralgia may also arise from any compression exercised upon the trunk of a nerve ; and in this way, indeed, some of the more intiactable foims of the affection have their origin. Thus, thickening of the neurilemma, the pressiu-e of a tumour of any kind, or of a piece of dead bone, may give rise to the most intense pain in the part supplied by the iri-itated nerve ; and it is not impro-