LOCAL TREATMENT OF CANCER. 803 surface : hence ifc is customary first to destroy the skin Avith nitrjc acid, and then to apply the chloride. Cancpioin states that a paste, made of equal parts of the chloride and of flour, four lines in thickness, and applied for forty-eight houi-s, destroys the parts to the depth of an inch and a half. ^When of less strength and substance, its action is proportionately limited. There are tAVO methods by Avhich a tumoiu- may be attacked and destroyed by caustic paste : cither at or from the circumference, or from the centre. When the tumour is hu-ge and rapidly gi-OAving, it may be most adA'antageously destroyed fr’om the circumference, at its junction Avith the healthy tissues. This may be done by the plan adopted by MaisonueuA-e—of making the paste into small sticks, or pencils, Avhich ai-e pushed deeply and at short interA'als into the substance of the tumour around its circumference, so that its tissue becomes penetrated by the action of the caustic in all directions, and its totality thus rapidly destroyed. In small tumours, and those that groAA' AAuth less rapidity, in Avhich there is no great risk of the rapidity of their groAvth overtaking and passing beyond the destructive effects of the caustic, the paste may be applied to and aroiuid the ■centre, and the disease in this manner extirpated. In other cases, the tumour may be deeply and rapidly attacked by applying, a layer of the chloride of zinc paste over the AA'hole of its surface. The slough produced by this application is then incised, or scored longitudinally at equal distances of about half an inch, until the parts beneath, to A\'’hich the caustic has not penetrated, are reached by the incisions so made : j)ieces of lint covered Avith the deliquesced chloride are put into them, and aftei-Avards fr-esh incisions are made until the cauterising influence has extended to the bottom of the tmnom’, Avhich finally sloughs out in a mass. Of the utility of the chloride of zinc as a caustic, there can be no doubt; but the chief objection to its use lies in the intensity and continuance of the pain occasioned by it. This, hoAvever, maybe lessened by an admixture ■of about a sixth part of morphia, or, as L. Parker has suggested, by freezing the pai’t before the caustic is applied, and continuing the appheation of the fr-igorific mixture during the time of the action of the caustic. Landolfi has recommended the use of the chloride of bromiue in combination AAuth those of gold and zinc ; but this caustic does not appear to possess any decided advan- tage over the simple chloride of zinc, and is objectionable on account of the fumes evolved dining its use. Arsenic exercises a poAverfrd action upon cancerous groAvths, and is the chief ingTcdient in many of the secret preparations used by empirics ; it is, hoAvever, a dangerous agent, and excites great inflammation and pain. If too fr’eely used, it may induce poisoning, and not a fcAv deaths have resulted in this Avay ; it should, accordingly, not be applied at any one time to a surface exceeding a shilling in size. The most convenient mode of applying it appears to be Manec’s paste, composed of one part of arsenious acid to eight of cinnabar und foiu’ of blunt sponge, rubbed doAAui to a proper consistence AAuth a little Avatcr. SuliAiate of zinc, dried, finely levigated, and made into a paste AAuth glycerine, or an ointment AAuth lead, has been very strongly recommended by Simpson, as one of the most efficient and convenient of all caustics in rodent and cancerous ulcers. In action it someAvhat resembles the chloride of zinc, but is less painful. 3 P 2