INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 53^ suiTound any operation with the view of OA^acnating matter ft-om within tlic- craninni. When, however, the symptoms of inflammation have been inteiTupted by an attack of rigors followed by coma, or accompanied by hemi]olegic paralysis on the side opposite to the seat of injury, with the formation of a puffy swelling of the scalp, or by the separation of the pericranium aud the exposure of yellow and diy bone at the bottom of the wound, there can be little doubt that the Surgeon, though bearing in mind the extreme uncertainty of the case, might be justified in trephining at the seat of local change or of injury, in the hope of finding and evacuating pus deposited beneath the skull, and thus giving the patient his only chance of life. Aud indeed, if the local changes just described be well marked, the bone being dry, having lost its vitality, aud not bleeding from the diploe when cut, the probability of finding pus im- mediately beneath the trephine aperture, and seeing it Avell up by the side of the instrument as the bone is perforated, is very great. And should it not be met with there, and the dima mater appear bulging, and without pulsation for the absence of the ordmary pulsatile movement of the brain is an important diagmostic sign in these cases, indicating abscess either under the diu’a matei or in the brain-substance—an incision might even be made through this membrane, in the hope that, the abscess being circumscribed, the escape of the pus might be facilitated. Should this attempt fail, there are few Surgeons whO’ would have the hardihood to follow the example of Dupuytreu, who plunged a bistoury into the substance of the brain, aud thus luckily relieved the patient of an abscess in this situation. Yet, even though pus be actually found uudei the skull, between it and the dura mater, and be evacuated, I fear that the patient’s chances of recovery Avill not be very materially increased, as the en- cephalitis win continue, and eventually lead to bis death. In my own ex- perience, I have never met with a case of recovery in these circumstances ; and P. Heivett states that the successful termination of a case of trephining tor mis within the skull, even between it and the dima mater, is all but unknown to Surgeons of the present day. Yet, in the face of this unfavomable prospect, it appears to me that trephining is the proper course to pimsiie. There can be no doubt fi-om the records of simgery, that patients have occasionally recovered Avho have been trephined for intracranial suppuration ; and, as the pus caimot evacuate itself, it is perfectly certain that death must ensue if it be not let out As the only chance of life, therefore, is in the use of the trejifriie, it appea s to me to L proper to have recourse to this, however doubtful may be the '“ra; Treatment of Pyemia from iujory of tbe skull must be oonducted on those ordinary medical ™ ‘^tTa mr* sur- pyrnmia, from whatever cause arising. There is only one point of a i uiely si gSroharaeter connected nith it, and it is this: Should « ^n “ trp-nbinino- in cases of contusion of the craniimi as a means of pieventuy., t S™Lt of;; Jmit ? In anstver to this, I would sa, that eri«c not demonstrated the utility of this procedure ; that it <drcn case of contusion of the craniiun to say whether neciosis oi “ the bniised bone will occur; that it is extent of that probable necrosis, and to remove it all by the trephine ,