132 INFLAMMATION. our measiu’es to the age, constitution, and vigonr of the patient, and to the seat and intensity of the local disease ; and miist continue the treatment until the inflammatory action is not only arrested, but has entirely subsided, and the part restored to its ordinary healthy state. Treatment op Acute Inflammation with Constitutional Symptoms of THE Asthenic and Irritative Types.—The asthenic and 'imtakve forms of inflammation derive their peculiarities from the character of the constitutional disturbance, rather than from any peculiarity in the local affection. Hence it is in the management of the constitutional condition that the principal differ- ence exists between the treatment of these and that of the other vai'ieties of acute inflammation. In considering this part of oiu’ subject, it is of especial importance to banish the term ‘‘ antiiMoyistk; ” for the same treatment that would aiTcst inflam- mation in one form of the disease, would certainly favour its progress in another. Nothing appears to me to he more unscientific than to endeavoiu to treat all inflammations on one imiform plan. Siuely the scoffers at medical science have some ground for doubting at least the wisdom of its Professors, when they see one set of practitioners treating every inflammatoiy disease vith depletion, antimony, and calomel, whilst others teach that the panacea for all inflamma- tions consists in brandy, ammonia, and hark. It is hnpossible that ho& methods can be right, as exclusive plans of treatment. But the eiTor lies in making them exclusive. Each is serviceable in, and indeed only applicable to, its omi particular cases. And between these extremes lie a multitude of foms. of disease, in which endless modifications and comhmations of these two- methods of treatment—the stimulating and the depletory—must he adopted bj the Surgeon in order to meet the varying conditions of his patient. Ihe local symptoms that accompany the inflammatory process, whether occumng exter- nally or internally, in the conjmictiva or in the lung, are associated with constitutional distiubance that varies according to the age and the constitu- tional condition of the patient. It is the tyiie assumed by this constitutional disturbance, its sthenic or its adynamic character, as mdmatedhy the pulse and by the tongue, and not the mere diagnosis of the local disease, that must guide tL Sm-eon i; the adoption of his line of practice. We may advantageously treat with antimony and blood-letting acute inflammation of the conjunctiva, ov tLt which is the consequence of awound of the lung, in an otherwise healthy and robust man of thirty ; whilst in a broken man of seventy, ammonia, haik, /odd be equally propev ; but if wo wove (except under Louliar and exceptional circumstances) to rCTerse this treatment—to stimulate or vigm-ons, and to deplete the aged or feeble-we should act eo i- tr/y to common sense, and probably destroy mtber ^ is offer oTeater importance to be able to estimate accurately the tiiie coustit tional disturbance as ot minor ™ treat erysipelas or * iraTLt/eern;^^ or of tu; lung, on one uniform plan.