INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 546 cranium, near tlie vertex. On examining the state of the bones, it was found that the outer table of the skull was splintered to a considerably greater extent Fig. 243.—Fi-aetoe of tlie Skull from Gun-shot Kg. 244.—The same—natural size, Injury from witluii: Splintering of Outer Table. than the inner one, showing clearly the influence of the direction of the fiiactur- ino- force (Figs. 243, 244). This case led me to make finther experiments on the dead body; and I found that the outer table is always more sphntered when the blow is struck from the inside of the skull outwards. Teevan has made a considerable number of ingenious experiments on this subiect, by firing bullets and clrmng pointed bodies of various kinds tlmoug the'skull. He finds, as the result of these investigations, that the aperture o± exit is the larger, whether the blow be delivered, or the bullet be driven from without inwards, or the reverse. The explanation at which he has ai^ived is that the aperture of entry is caused by the penetrating body only, ^'^sUlie aperture of exit is caused by thisilZ^^s the fragments of bone driven ^ t^le of the skuU which was first perforated. Thus, when a bullet strikes th external table from ivithout, it first perforates this, ‘^^d then carries along wi it and thi-ough the inner table the fragments of bone that it has cut out of extanal table, and hence fr-actmes the inner table more ^-^ely than When both sides of the head are traversed by a bullet, it aviU the aperture of entiwin the outer table on the side fii’st struck, and the apertine S t ft ‘ inJ table of fte opposite side of fte head, bo the sma« fte tegest holes made by the bullet being the apertures on ^ fte forher side and the outer table of the latter. In the caK of a lai e and broad body like a bullet, which carries and does not Teevan’s explanation is doubtless ooiTect. But, m the ordinary Pt ftaeture, mile, for instance, by the point of a nail being ^ skull, it must be remembered that no fingnients of tto .™ carried onwards, and that the very mde-spread and the loss of momentum in the breaking “t occasionaUy happens, as the result of sabre- or that a longitudinal incised fmeture occurs, m vhich the oiitci