VARIETIES OF DEPRESSED FRACTURE. 545 They never present the cliaracters of a fissure; there is no such thing as a congenital fissure of the skull. In the Diagnosis of depressed fracture, it is important to remember that the apparent depression produced by an extravasation under the scalp may simulate this injury A'ery closely ; for even an experienced Surgeon may sometimes in these circumstances be induced to cut donm on a suspected fi'acture, when in reality none exists. This happens in consequence of the blood that is extravasated coagulating round the circumference of the contusion, whilst that which is in the centre remains fluid, so that a very deceptive sensation of a hollow with a hard rim is communicated to the finger. Varieties.—Depressed fractures of the skull may cither be simple, Avithout Avound of the scalp ; compound ; or comminuted. In the majority of cases, whether the fracture be simple or compound, there is comminution of the bone ; the fragments being perhaps dri\^en into the brain. Sometimes, though very rarely, the external table alone is depressed and driven into the diploe. This is especially the case over the fr’ontal sinuses,. where it may be broken in, as I have seen happen fr’om the kick of a horse, without the inner table being splintered, or any bad consequence ensuing. The inner table may be fr-actured without any apparent injmy to the outer table ; and it may not only be so fr-actured, but a portion of it may be depressed, Avithout the outer table being injiu-ed (Figs. 245, 246). Of this remarkable injury twenty cases are recorded as having happened in the late American war. One recovered, the diagnosis being made by finding the splintered inner table in a sequestrum which was removed. The rest died of intracranial mischief, and the diagnosis was not made dining life. More commonly, when the inner table is thus fr-actured or depressed, the outer table is fissined. In all ordinary depressed fractures, the internal table is splintered to a greater extent than the external one. This is espe- oially the case when the fr-acture is the result of gun-shot injury, or when it has been occasioned by blows with a pointed weapon, as the end of a pick, 01 a laige nail, or the sharp angle of a brick. In these fractiu-es, which con- stitute the dangerous variety termed Pxiiictured, the outer table may be merely perforated or fissured, whilst the inner one is AAudely sphntered into numerous fr-agments, for the extent of a square inch or more. This splintering of the inner lamina of the skull to a greater extent than the outer one has attracted much attention, being of considerable practical moment, and is usually said to be oAving to its being more brittle than the external table. This, hoAvever, I do not consider to be the only cause. I should rather attribute it 0 the fractm-ing force fr-oin Avithout inwards losing a certain amount of the inner table beine- momentum in passing through the outer table - ^ O- UCWiC uciiiy thus splintered more widely than the outer one, for the same reason that the perture of exit made by a bullet is larger than that of entry. If this be the true explanation, the reverse ought to hold good if the force bo applied in the opposite direction. It is very seldom that we have an opportunity of examin- Wi !v^ 5 but, some years ago, a man was brought to the Hospital who is|;harged a pistol into his mouth and upAvards through the brain The b«llet_ W pertb.-atcd the palate and p^aod out at tho“ nppe) of th^ VOL. I. K K