TREATMENT OF NJEYUS. 935 Ilians of treatment is peculiarly aijplicable when the disease assumes certain forms, and affects certain situations. 1. When the mevus is of small size, and occurs in such situations that its destruction by caustics, or removal by knife or ligatiu’o, would be attended by serious deformity, as when it is seated about the eyelids, upon the tip of the nose, at the inner angle between the eye and the nose, or about the corners of thb mouth, it is best to endeavour to procure obUteratmi, hj exciting adhesive inflam- mation in it. This may be done in various Avays. If small, the naevus may be vaccinated. If it be larger, the most convenient plan consists, perhaps, in passing a number of fine silk threads across the tumonr in different dhections, and leaving them in for a week or two at a time, until they have produced sufficient inflammation along their tracks, then Avithdrawing them and passing them into other parts of the tumoiu’. In this way its consolidation may gradually be effected. Another very useful plan is to break up the substance of the growth subcutaneously by means of a cataract-needle, or tenotome, and, in the intervals betAveen the different introductions of this instrument, to keep up pressm-e upon the tumour. In other cases, again, the requisite amount of cousohdation will be induced by passing acupunctm’e- needles into the nsevus, and then heating them by means of a spirit-lamp. Perhaps the most efficient way of obtaining this object is by injecting the perchloride of iron by means of a small glass syringe ATith a screw-piston rod and a fine sharply pointed platinum nozzle (Fig. 333). In doing tliis, care must be taken that but a very small quantity of the solution, not more than two or three drops, be injected at one time. The perchloride of iron possesses extraordinary power of coagulating the blood ; and, if more than has just been mentioned be thrown in, the tissue of the nmvus may either have its vitahty destroyed, aud slough, or coagulation of the blood in the vessels beyond the nffivus may occur, and a dangerous or even fatal embolism ensue from the coagulum thus formed being washed into the cuiTent of the circulation. 2. "When the nsevus is small, very superficial, of the capillary character, Avith an exceedingly thin covering of cuticle, aud so situated, as upon the arm, neck, or back, that a moderate amount of scarring is of little consequence, it may most conveniently be removed by the free application of ovitric acid. This should be well rubbed on by means of a piece of stick ; and, after the separation of the slough, its application must be repeated as often as there is any appearance of the granulations springing up, which occasionally happens at one angle of the Avouud and indicates a recmrence of the vascular groAi'^th. ’ 8. l-he (jalvanic cautery has been used in a large number of cases by con- itTt „"fTT of I" ISO cases tabLted by Maas ot Breslau, this treatment was completely successful in 112 Eleven were improved ; 3 died ; and the result in 4 Avas uuknoAvn. Of the 130 cases o4 Avere capiUaiy naevi, and of these 32 Avere cured: and 83 wore venous Fig. 333.—Syringe for Injecting Xtevus.