treatment of fractured patella. 443 The aponeurotic union always leaves a weakened limb and an unprotected joint ;:^br, in consequence of the separation of the frag-ments, the folding in ot the tascia, and its adhesion to the capsule of the joint, the fingers can be thrust in between the articular siu'faces ot the kuee. Treatment—In many cases of fractured patella, there is rather severe in- flammatory action in the knee, with gi-eat synovial effusion. This requires to be reduced by rest and the application of evaporating lotions, before any other treatment can be adopted. When this has been effected, means must be taken for the union of the fragments ; with this view, the principal point to be attended to is, to keep them in sufficiently close apposfrion for finn liga- mentous union to take plaee. The upper fragment, which is movable, and has been, retracted by the extensor muscles of the thigh, must be diawn down so as to be approximated to the lower one, which is fixed by the liga- mentimi patell®. This approximation of the fragments may be effected either l)y position and relaxation of the muscles, or by mechanical contrivance. •Simple position usually suffices for this piu’pose, and must be attended to whatever mechanical appliances are used. By placing the patient in a semi- recumbent position, and elevating the leg considerably, so as to relax the muscles of the thigh completely, the upper fragment may be brought doum to the lower one, and, if necessary, may be retained there, after any local inflam- mation that results from the accident has been subdued, by moulding a gutta- percha cap acciu’ately to and fixing it firmly upon the knee, or by the applica- tion of pads of lint and broad straps of plaster. These straps of jilaster may be applied above and upon the upper fragment in a diagonal direction from above downwards. They should be of sufficient length to embrace the limb and the back ^splint, to which they are to be fixed, or a figme-of-8 bandage may be applied round the limb and splint together. This position must be maintained for at least six weeks ; at the expiration of which time the patient may be allowed to walk about, wearing, however, an elastic knee-cap, or, what is better, a straight leather splint in the ham, so as to prevent the knee from being bent for at least three months. If this precaution be not taken, the union between the fi-agments, which at first appeared to be in very close contact, will gradually lengthen, until in the coinse of a few months an interval of several inches may l.)e found between them. In these cases, however, even though the separation between the fragments be great, it is remarkable how well the limb may be used, especially on level ground ; and with the aid of a knee-cap but little inconvenience is experienced by the patient. If the occupation of the patient is such that he cannot be kept at rest dmmg the treatment, the starched bandage will be found very usefirl, the patient being with it enabled to walk about diming the whole of the treatment, ine action of the bandage is much increased by drawing down and fixing the upper fragment by two broad strips of plaster firmly applied above it. A back splint of pasteboard is required to fix the knee, and a good pad of lint with a figure-of-8 bandage should be applied above and below the fracture to keep it m position. In several cases I have obtained very close and firm union between the fi’agments in this way, without confining the patient to bed after the third day. Various attempts have at different times been made to bring domi and to fix