DISEASES OF LYAIPllATICS AND GLANDS. 9i6 ! and the glandulaj concatenatce, sometimes in the axillary or inguinal glands, forming largo indurated and nodulated tumours matted together, and suppura- ting in the interstices of the areolar tissue, or in the substance of the glands themselves. This strumous enlargement of the glands occurs chiefly in children and in young people ; in whom, indeed, it is commonly looked upon as one of the most frecjncnt accompaniments of the strumous diathesis. Treatment.—The treatment of inflamed absorbent glands varies greatly, according to the stage of the affection. In the acute stage, leeches and fomen- tations are especially required. In the subacute condition, spirit-lotions con- taining the iodide of potassium will subdue the inflanmration and take down the swelling ; at the same time, the health must be regulated by aperients, and a moderate antiphlogistic plan of treatment. If an abscess form, it must be opened with a knife, and the part well poulticed afterwards ; the fistulous openings, w^hich are often left, require to be treated by stimulating applications, especially the nitrate of silver, but very commonly they will not heal unless they are sht up and dressed from the bottom. Chronic Inflammation with Hypertrophy of the Lymphatic Glands,, or the indication left as the result of the acute disease, requires to be treated on different principles. If there be any pain and tenderness about the glands, the appheation of the iodide of potassium aud spirit-lotion will be required. If they have already suppicated, and an aperture exist leading down to an indurated mass, or if there be surrounding induration of the soft tissues, it is often a good plan to rub the ulcerated part freely with caustic potash, which ivill dissolve it away by exciting inflammation around the plastic deposit, and thus causing its dissolution into pus. When there is merely chronic enlarge- ment, without u’ritation, methodical friction with iodine or iodide of lead ointment wiU produce absorption of the inflammatory effusion constituting the bulk of the enlargement ; and this in many instances may remove the tumom- entirely. In other cases, painting the part with the tincture of iodine, and improvement of the general health, will cause the removal of the diseased structure. After abscess has formed and been opened, fistulous openings wU be left, into which large masses of hypertrophied gland may be seen to project. These are best reduced by the red oxide of meremy, or potassa fusa : indeed, if the glands be much enlarged and indurated, projecting into the openings made over them, the potassa fusa is the best application that can be made use of, breaking down and dissolving away the indurated mass. In applying it, care must be taken that the caustic do not spread too widely ; this may usually be avoided by coating the surrounding integuments ivith collodion. Extirpa- tion of enlarged lymphatic glands is seldom necessary, and, if undertaken, may lead to more serious and extensive dissections than might appear at first requisite ; for a chain of diseased glands often extends to a considerable dis- tance, and after one has been removed, others, come into sight. As a genera rule, this operation should not be undertaken : cases, however^ occasiona y occur, in which such a procedme may be deemed advisable, the aftected glands being large and indurated, and their disease of many years’ standing ; tlieir extirpation may then be proper, and I have not iinfreqiiently la occasion in such circumstances to remove them from the axilla, fiom t le su maxi ary region, and from the posterior triangle of the neck.