rupture of muscles and tendons. 341 injueies of mubolbsb and tendons. Sprains or Strains of muscuLar parts, without rupture of fibre, arc of very common occurrence, especially about the shoulders, hip, and loins, and arc accompanied by much pain, stiffness, and inability to move the part. When they occur in rheumatic subjects, these injm’ies not uncommonly give nse to severe and persistent symptoms; in some cases painful atrophy, rigidity, or local paralysis of the injured muscle being induced. In the Treatment of these accidents, when recent, it will be found that kneading or rubbing the part with a stimulating embrocation, the application of dry cupping, or, if the pain be severe, the application of hot fomentations mth rest is more efficient. If the injury occur in persons of a rheumatic con- stitution, the effects are much more severe and persistent than in those who are otherwise constituted. In such persons douches, fiictions, and passive motion will, after a time, be necessary, together with proper constitutional treatment. In strumous subjects, a sprahi may lead to the development of very serious inflammations. Muscles that have been sprained sometimes undergo a species of rigid atrophy, Avith much impairment of motion of the limb or joint. In such cases, fiictions, douches, and above aU, electricity, wiU be found useful. Rupture and Division.—Subcutaneous rupture of muscles and tendons not unfi’equently occurs, not so much from any external violence, as from the contraction of the muscle rupturing its own substance. The rupture may occur at one of foiu points: in the muscular substance itself; at the hne of junction between the muscle and tendon; through the tendon ; and, lastly, at the point of insertion of the muscle or tendon into bone. S^dillot foimd that, in 21 cases, the ruptiue occiured at the point of origin of the tendon from the muscle 13 times; and in the remaining 8, the muscle itself was torn. It occasionally happens that the muscular sheath is ruptiued, so that the belly of the muscle forms a kind of hernial protrusion through the aperture ; or the tendon may be displaced by ruptiue of its sheath. This usually happens "with the long head of the biceps, or the extensor tendons of the fingers. These ruj)tures most commonly occur in middle-aged or elderly men, who have lost the elasticity of youth, though their physical strength is miimpaired. At the moment of the rupture, the patient usually experiences a sudden shock, as if he had received a blow, and sometimes hears a snap. He becomes unable to use the injm’ed hmb, and at the part where the rupture has occurred he finds a hollow or pit, produced by the retraction of the ends of the torn muscle, which contracts into a hard lump. These accidents, though troublesome, arc seldom serious. The tendo Achillis, the quadriceps extensor of the thigh, the triceps of the arm, the biceps, the deltoid, the rectus abdominis, are the tendons and muscles that most commonly give way, with the relative frequency of the order in which they are placed. Muscles and tendons may be cut across accidentally or purposely in almost any part of the body. In these injuries there is always a considerable amount of gaping of the wound, owing to the retraction of both ends, if a muscle be divided, and of the upper end only, if a muscle be separated from its tendon or the tendon cut across.