794 TUMOURS. 2. The next point is as to the hemlilariness of cancer. As lias already been statecl, this is undoubted. But an hereditary tendency to a disease must not be confounded with a constitutional disposition to it. It is a fatal error in etiology to confound hereditariness with constitutionalism. Hcre- ditariness may be local as well as constitutional. The hereditary trans- mission of a particular feature from parent to offspring cannot be considered a proof of a constitutional tendency. So also the hereditary transmission of a malformation, as of supernumerary fingers or exostoses, is certainly purely local. But diseases may also be transmitted through descent without being in any way constitutional. Tumoims that arc not cancers are here- ditary, as ganglions, ivarts, hpomata, cnchonch’omata, &c.; sebaceous cysts of the scalp are strongly hereditary, and yet there can be no pretence that these are in any way constitutional or blood-diseases. These are instances of hei editary local diseases that arc not congenital, but develop after the body has reached maturity ; just, indeed, as a cancer does. We do not look upon these conditions as constitutional—dependent on some conditions of the blood, merely because they are transmitted from parent to offspring. All that we can at present assume is, that it is probable that in some cases there is a predisposition of imknown nature, hereditarily transmissible, which may tend to the development of cancer without the action of a known local exciting cause ; and this hereditary tendency may be local, as in a certain tissue, or iir a particular organ which is the usual seat of election of cancer, as the mamma, the testis, or the pylorus. 3. The r/reater virulence affected by cancers in some individuals than in others, and the varyintj degrees of rapidity with which they run their comse, would imdoubtedly lead to one of two inferences ; either that the primary cancer is more active, has greater inherent vitality, or that the constitution in which it occiu’s is more fiivourable to its development. That some cancers are inherently and at) initio more active, more virulent in fact than others, independently of the constitution of the individual, is evident from the greater rapidity and virulence with which some recurrent cancers will de^•elop themselves than did the parent growth. But that some constitutions may be more favourable to the development of cancer, may be a more fertile field for the primary local gTowth than others, there is every reason to believe. We see this in syphilis and tubercle. We know that there are individuals in whose constitution, when once syphilis has become engrafted, the disease assumes the most virulent and intractable form. The danger in fact of contracting a chancre varies very greatly in different in- dividuals—not owng to any difference in the primary disease, but in the soil on which it is implanted. So it is vith tubercle. This product is now kno^vii to be in many cases at least local in its origin. But it requires a fitting soil— a “ tuberculous ” constitution—in which to germinate. So it is also with the parasites that infest the human body. That all indi- viduals are not equally fitted to be their liahitat, there can be no doubt. The conditions under which ascarides, lumbrici, or skin-parasites will originate and develop, do not equally exist iii all. These parasites are undoubtedly local in their formation—a fitting soil for their growth existing in some, not in others. They are not the “ local manifestations of a constitutional ^oce,” but simply of