834 VENEREAL DISEASES. ftieniim, which, may be pevfbrated ; or they may occupy the mucous surface of the prepuce. lu no case are they indurated. The excoriated chancres not unfrequently present somewhat varying appear- ances. In some cases their surhice becomes covered with large fungous gi-anulations, hence iQvmQfL fang citing sores. In other instances they are truly irritable, becoming exceedingly sensitive, with a tendency to spread, and having a dusky red areola around them. These chancres are very frecpiently attended by much general inflammation of the penis ; the organ being swollen, red, and semi-transparent, from subcutaneous oedema, and usually in a state of phimosis, with much purulent secretion between the prepuce and glans. 2. Phagedaenic Chancre is characterised by a tendency to erosion, with much destruction of the parts that it invades. It may assume the phagedasnic character from the very first, or this maybe set up in one of the other varieties of chancre at some period of their course. The progress of this phagedtenic or eroding chancre is usually somewhat slow, but continuous; it commonly affects the glans, more especially in the neighbourhood of the fr-Eenum or urethra, destroying a considerable portion of the organ in this situation. Wallace has divided this form of chancre into three varieties ; that without slough, that ivith tv Jute slough, and that with Mach slough. Each of these varieties, again, may be of a simple, an inflamed, or an irritahle character. This classification apj)ears to me to be an useful and practical one, and I accordingly adopt it. The phagedaenic chancre ivitJwut slough is a truly eroding ulcer, spreading with sharply cut edges, attended by some slight inflammatory action, and with much activity of progress ; it is commonly observed about the fr’Eenum and imder part of the glans, and very frequently hollows out and destroys the organ in this situation to a considerable extent. In the pJiagedcenic chancre with tvhite slough, we find an irregular eroding ulcer, with a thin margin of white slough situated at the junction of the dead and living structures ; that which covers’ the siuface of the sore having usually become darkened by exposure to air, to dressings, and to secretions. phagedcenic chancre with Mach slough differs but little from the last, except in the colour of the slough, which may be in a great measure accidental, and in its tendency to indiuation, and to somewhat rapid extension ; it must not be confounded Avith the next form of chancre, Avhich presents many points of difference. All these varieties of phagedmnic chancre may be inflamed, being attended with much heat, redness, and swelling, increase of discharge, and rapidity of action ; or they may be irritable, occurring in cachectic individuals, when they are accompanied by much pain, and usually a good deal of consti- tutional isturbance of a nervous and irritative type. 3. Sloughing Chancre, or Gangrenous Phagedsena, is a combmation of rapidly spreading and destructive gangrene Avith the venereal poison, and may be looked upon as a gangrenous inflammation of a venereal sore. The gangrene is usually the consequence of the confinement of the venereal pus under an elongated prepuce, in a person of inflammatory and irritable con- stitution, in Avhom the loose areolar tissue of the genital oi’gans readily takes on sloughing action Avhen inflamed. It usually affects the upper siuface of the prepuce. The parts becoming immensely SAVollen, red, and someAA’hat braA\ ny, and the prepuce being in a state of complete and permanent phimosis, a dusky