931 ANEURISM BY ANuiSTOMOSIS. CHAPTEE XLI. —♦— ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS, AND NJEVUS.— HAEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. ANEURISM By ANASTOMOSIS. Aneurism by Anastomosis is a disease of the arteries, in which the vessels become excessively elongated, tortuous, and serpentine ; sometimes they assume a varicose condition, being dilated into small sinuses, and are always vexy thin-waUed, resembling rather veins than arteries in structure. This kind of dilatation of the vessels gives rise to pixlsating tumours, often of con- sidei’able size, and of a very active and dangeroixs character. They may be sitixated in almost any tissue or organ of the body, but are most commordy met with in the submucous and subcutaneous areolar tissue, and most frequently occm’ in the upper part of the body, especially about the scalp, orbit, lips, and face ; but they have been met with in other situations, such as the tongue, and even in internal organs, as the hver ; and I have seen veiy active growths of this kind on the side of the chest, nates, and foot. In some cases, aneiuism by anastomosis occiu’S in bones, in which it forms a special disease, and is not imcommonly associated with some form of malignant growth. It will generally be found that the arteries leading to the aneurism by anastomosis, though at a considerable distance from it, are tortuous and enlai’ged, with thin and expanded coats, and pulsate actively ; in fact, constituting that condition that goes by the name of Cirsoid Dilatation of the vessels. Aneurism by anastomosis fonns tumours of varying magnitude and iiTegular shape ; they are usually of a bluish colour, have a spongy feel, are readily com- pressible, not circumscribed, and have large tortuous vessels running into and from thern on different sides. Their temperatiue is generally above that of neighbouring parts ; and a vibratory or puiTing thrill, amoimting in many dases to distinct pulsation, may be felt in them. This pulsation or thrill is syn- chronous xvith the heart’s beat, may be ari’ested by compressing the tumoiu- or the artenes leading to it, and returns with an expansive beat on the removal of the pressure. The bruit is often loud and harsh, but at other times of a soft and blowing character. These growths rarely occim in infancy, but generally rr “let with at all penods 01 life, often as the consequence of injury. DlA(3UOSls.-It is of importance to etteot the diagnosis between oi-dinan; 3 0 2