PROSPECTUS OF TWO COURSES OF LECTURES: ONE ON ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY; THE OTHER ON JpatSologg anD tfje practice of speOicine. MR. WALKER * 1 his season gives the double course of Lectures which he last Summer announced, and of which his pre- ceding Courses, however flatter- ingly received, were the merest outline. N the lectures on ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY Will commence on TUESDAY the 25th of OCTOBER, at N°. 63, South Bridge Street, °PP°site the C°l*ege, and will be continued daily from ELEVEN till TWELVE o’clock forenoon, till the termination of the course, at the end of Three Months, in the beginning of February. GENERAL PLAN of these LECTURES «Ifb^hp;they,COnS/St°f^ree PartS; mch dePart- Ut oj Physiology being preceded by a view of all2 the important corresponding facts of Anatomy, ami succeeded by references to alt their applications, and particularly to those which are Pathological; in such a manner as at once to render obvious to the student the facts of Anatomy, to impress upon him the im- portant reasonings of Physiology, and to exhibit to him a view of a new, simple and impressive natural system of Pathological Science in general. As, in consequence of this general plan, Mr Walker will not introduce any Theory of Physiology until a clear and satisfactory Piezo has been given of the Facts of Anatomy on which it may depend, these lectures will be rendered easily comprehensible to the youngest student of General Science, as well as of Medicine. the particular arrangement OF THIS COURSE will be precisely the same with that which Mr Walker has proposed for Anatomy and Physiology in general. I. In that part of the Course which relates ta the Mechanical Organs and Functions, will! be explained the Structure and Uses, 1 st, Of thee Bones which support the rest of the animal machine . | 2dly, Of the Ligaments which unite it; and, 3%, Of the Muscles which move it.3 II. In that part of the Course which relates to the Vital Organs and Functions, will be ex- plained the Structure and Uses, 1st, Of the Organs of Mastication, Deglutition, and Digestion, of the Absorbent Surfaces, and of the Vessels which absorb from these surfaces; Qdly, Of the Heart, Lungs, and Blood Vessels, which derive their contents (the blood) from the absorbed lymph ; and, 3dly, Of the Organs of Secretion, which separate various matters from the blood. Throughout this division, in particular, the analogies from vegetables will be explained. III. In that part of the Course which relates to the Intellectual Organs and Functions, will be explained the Structure and Uses, 1st, Of the Organs of Sense, which receive impressions from ex- ternal objects; Qdly, Of the Brain, where these im- pressions excite ideas; and, Sdly, Of the Spinal Marrow and Nerves, where volition results from the last. In this division will be also explained, as found- ed upon original observations, certain criteria of the various degrees of the sensitive, perceptive and vo- luntary powers possessed by different animals, as well as the nature of sensation, perception and vo- lition themselves. Throughout all these departments, Compara- tive Anatomy, as it alone can destroy Physiolo- gical Hypotheses, or transmute them into Theories, *ity be strictly attended to. t4 By adopting this arrangement, Mr Walker will not merely be able to detail a greater number of facts in Anatomy, even during a Three Months Course, than can otherwise be done in one of six, but will also be able to deliver all the still more interesting Rea- sonings of Physiology, which, though, in general, al- most entirely neglected, and never systematized, are more important both to the Surgeon and the Physi- cian. In truth, Anatomy is valuable chiefly as it constitutes the basis of Physiology. THE GENERAL MODE IN WHICH THESE LECTURES WILL BE DISTIN- GUISHED FROM ALL OTHERS, is, that the student will not be troubled by doctrines and hypo- theses which have no useful application, but which, on the contrary, serve merely to bewilder him, and to prolong the course of his studies: And further, that such arrangements will be adopted in them, as that, notwithstanding the shortness of the course, not one important fact of Anatomy, which can form a basis for Physiological reasoning, nor any fact of Physiology itself, will be omitted. i •fv in. 4! THE PARTICULAR MODE IN WHICH THESE LECTURES WILL BE DISTINGUISH- ED FROM ALL OTHERS is this, that every un-3 fort ant fact of Anatomy will be demonstrated upon Moist Preparations, of the most valuable and perfect kind, in which alone the relations of parts can be seen. And further, in order that this may be satisfactorily done, an hour will be EMPLOYED AFTER EVERY LECTURE INVOLVING MINUTE OR DIFFICULT FACTS, DURING WHICH EACH GENTLEMAN INDIVIDUALLY MAY HAVE ALL THE DIFFICULTIES EXPLAINED. This tVill be from SEVEN till EIGHT o'clock every EVENING; and will be considered as forming a part of the same course, requiring no additional fee. THE APPLICATIONS OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY will form a prominent part of the course. In considering the application, or rather the re- lation of Physiology to Philosophy in general, the last mentioned points, with regard to the philo- sophy of mind, will be particularly dwelt upon. In considering the application of Physiology to the Fine Arts, the errors in the construction of the antique statues, and of those of Michael An ere- O lo, both with regard to the individual muscles sup- posed to be brought into action, and with regard to a hitherto unobserved principle of Attitude, will bo carefully pointed out.t 6 In considering the application of Physiology to the Medical and Surgical Art, a view of a new, simple and impressive natural system of me- dical science in general, and of its first principles as an art, will be exhibited, and rules will also be given for performing surgical operations with the utmost precision and ease, upon the principle of an inva- riable relation between the arrangement of internal, and the situation of certain external parts, which « consequently form accurate signs of their situation.THE LECTURES ON PATHOLOGY AND T1IE ; PRACTICE of medicine Will also commence on TUESDAY the 25th OCTO- BER, at N°. 63, South Bridge Street, opposite the College, and will be continued daily, from TWO till THREE o’clock afternoon, till the termi- nation of the course, at the end of three Months, in the beginning of February. THE GENERAL PLAN OF THESE LEC- TURES will be that they correspond to the arrange- ment of the Lectures on Anatomy and Physiology. THE PARTICULAR ARRANGEMENT OF THIS COURSE will also correspond to that of the Anatomical and Physiological Course. The one will, in short, form the detailed and practical appli- cation of the other. Thus while, in the Anatomical and Physiological Lectures, the Usual Structure and Healthy Functiojis of any part are explained; in the Pathological and Practical, the Morbid Actions and deranged structure of the same part will be exhi- bited. According to this Natural Arrangement, it will be found that all the parts of Medical Science cor-8 rectly correspond, and beautifully flow from each other; while Anatomy is the basis of Physiology, Physiology is the basis of Medicine; the classification of one is applicable to the rest, and by means of it the study of the Science and the practice of the Art are thus at once simplified and rapidly accelerated. THE GENERAL MODE IN WHICH THESE LECTURES WILL BE DISTIN- GUISHED FROM ALL OTHERS will be that, in consequence of this dependence of the Patholo- gical and Practical Course upon the Anatomical and Physiological, and by means of the simplicity of that arrangement which involves the details of both, Mr IValker will be enabled to deliver every thing that can be erf' the slightest use in Medicine or Surgery during this course of three months, while, at the same time, he places every thing, by the same means, in what seems to him, an incomparably simpler and far more intelligible point of view. It will indeed be the grand object of this as well as of the preced- ing course to teach both the science and the art of medicine at once more rapidly and more correctly than appears hitherto to have been attempted. Mr Walker does not hesitate to speak thus explicitly, because he will have the pleasure of demonstrating its correctness. - — \ ‘ r THE PARTICULAR MODE IN WHICH THESE LECTURES WILL BE DISTIN- GUISHED FROM ALL OTHERS will be that Medicine and Surgery will be intimately9 combined (for it is impossible to practice the one without a knowledge of the other), and both of THEM WILL BE RENDERED COMPLETELY DEMON- STRATIVE. IN ORDER TO RENDER MEDICINE DEMONSTRATIVE, Morbid Anatomy will con- stitute its basis, and all the reasonings connected with the theory of, or the practice applicable to any dis- ease will be most strictly founded upon those de- rangements of structure which actually take place, and which will be exhibited either in Morbid Prepa- rations, or in Drawings, Plates and Casts. Thus Medicine will, for the first time, BE TAUGHT BY ACTUAL DEMONSTRATION, INSTEAD OF VAGUE DESCRIPTION. Indeed it is only in this way that lectures on the Practice of Medicine can be of the slightest use. When not rendered thus demonstrative, books are evidently incomparably better, because they admit of repeated examination and can be recurred to when the hasty descriptions of a lecture cannot. As usually delivered, then, books are much to be preferred to such Lectures, because while the one con- tains as much as the other, the former may be refer- red to when the other cannot possibly be. On the other hand, Medicine rendered demonstrative by Morbid Preparations, Plates 8$c. admits of no sub- stitution.In fine, it is because morbid anatomy &c. have not thus been combined with, and rendered the basis of Medicine, as now proposed, that the art is in its present backward state. IN ORDER TO RENDER SURGERY DEMONSTRATIVE, each Gentleman will actual- ly perform the operations which it involves. It cannot but excite astonishment that this, the only mode by which a facility in the performance of surgical operations can possibly be acquired, should never hitherto have been adopted in plans of public teaching. Mr Walker feels no inconsiderable pleasure in reflecting, that he first had the pleasure of thus ren- dering Surgical Lectures completely demonstrative or experimental; and that, during the present course, he shall have the honour of first rendering Medical Lectures equally so. No part of the Medical Art is at once so diffi- cult and so important as this : nor has any part of it hitherto been so strangely neglected. The Lecturer on Anatomy thinks this not his duty, because it is of too practical a nature ; and the Lecturer on Medi- cine thinks it not his, because actual demonstration is foreign to his business. Thus has a part, by far the most important of all Medical Science, been completely abandoned.11 Every other department of Medical Science may also be infinitely more easily studied in private than this individual part of it possibly can, because every other department of it is incomparably more independent of actual demonstration. In short, the utter impossibility of any Gentleman, who has not practised in this way, ever performing Surgical Ope- rations with precision and ease, is too obvious to be for a moment dwelt upon. Mr Walker thinks, that an exposition of the common errors, a clear explanation of a few original and fundamental principles, and especially of THE GREAT PRINCIPLES OFOPERA'IION PROPOSFD by him, and the actual performance of operations upon these principles, will decidedly effect these im- portant purposes. But to effect this, it is evident, that the peiv formance of one or two operations cannot suffice. Each Gentleman, therefore, attending this course, will have an opportunity of once performing one of the Great Operations, viz. Lithotomy, or Hernia (artificial Hernia, &c. being previously formed) ; of once performing Amputation; of twice Cutting down to and Tying Arteries, and of performing several of the smaller operations. The degree of experience which gentlemen will thus, from their own labours and the inspection of those pi others, even during the First Course, acquire, cannot Jail to be very complete.12 Mr Walker is happy to state, that anxious t» avoid the difficulties' which he felt in obtaining sub- jects during the first part of last course, he has al- ready obtained subjects for a great part of the present one. I he actual perjormance of operations will therefore commence without a moment's delay; and it is understood that gentlemen will perf orm these operations in the order in which their names are en- tered. As Mr Walker here makes no pretension which he cannot support, he will, as a proof of the great correctness of the principle of operation which he has had the honour to propose, during one of the First Lectures, pass (as he did in his last course) the finest instrument from the surface of the body through any of the great vessels liable to be the subject of surgical operation, and be- fore he bids farewell to the Gentlemen who do him the honour of attending him, he shall enable each of them to do the same, or to lay bare those ar- teries which can with most difficulty be reached, by a couple of incisions. It is by public, ostensible, and INCONTROVERTIBLE PROOFS of this kind alone, that Mr Walker will defend the important principles which he proposes *. * Mr W. is not unaware that others will attempt t® follow both this and the other plans of public teaching which, in this prospectus, he proposes : he is far from thinking that the persons who, because they found his lectures successful, could instantly attempt Similar ones—could (unfortunately for themselves only) choose for these lectures the very hour which they vainly thought alone remained for him— and could then, (which gives a shade of meanness t® the previous circumstances, otherwise almost praise- worthy) in order to influence the inexperienced, conde-13 THE PRELIMINARY LECTURES Of both courses will, as stated above, commence on TUESDAY the 25th of OCTOBER, and be con- tinued on WEDNESDAY, and the Proper Business of both also will commence on TUES- DAY the 1st of NOVEMBER, being the first day after the Holidays. scenit to publish, a few clays before the commencement of the courses, in the two first pages of a pamphlet, (by no means composed of extracts from authors, but indicating great ori- ginality of genius ! 1 ! and by the bye, upon an entirely different subject,) some remarks of the most unskillful kind, on the great principle of Surgical operation proposed by him—he is far from thinking that such persons Mill not similarly condescend to imitate the plans here detailed. This, however, though as weak as unskillful (for, in scien- tific investigations, it is the proposer, generally, who can best execute the proposition) is all (hat he desires. It is for the diffusion of knowledge alone (hat he labours, and those who cannot invent useful methods of their own are Wellcome to the adoption of his. Where these persons act liberally, they shall have his applause; where they act meanly, he shall blame them; and where, even while they condescend to imitate him, they make puerile insinuations respecting prin- ciples of which they seem to have not the slightest compre- hension, he, here publicly pledges himself that, he shall drag them into that derision and contempt which interested artifice so justly deserves. Mr W. is not of opinion, that, after conduct of this kind, the weakness of any man protects him from severity :—where such men do such things, they are ge- nerally the tools of others, and it is through them alone that their employers can be affected. Of interested parties, how. ever active and desperate their agents, Mr W. has no fear— lie would scorn himself if he could fear them—he is willing to meet them, in disputation, either singly or collectively, upon any subject in the whole range of human science : he is willing, in particular, that the value of the principle of operation which he has proposed should be publicly and14 iSo Perpetual Tickets can now be given for the Physiological Lectures, but attendance during THE PRESENT COURSE WILL ENTITLE GENTLEMEN TO PERPETUAL TICKETS TO THE LECTURES ON PA- THOLOGY AND THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. These Tzvo Courses of Lectures, it is evident, involve In/ far the greatest and most important part of all Medical Science. These, however, do not yet complete the plan which Mr Walker has formed, and tor that purpose, the following means will be adopted. EXAMINATIONS of those Gentlemen who choose to attend on the subjects of the previous weeks Lectures, will be held at the Lecture-Room every Saturday Morning, from Nine till Ten o'clock. As Air W., however, is aware that many Gentlemen mav not wish to attend these Public Examinations, he shall feel great pleasure in accommodating them as far as possible with Private hours. solemnly decided by this, that if his youngest pupil do not, by means of it, cut closer upqn any artery, at one inci- sion, than any of these gentlemen can, without it, at tzvo, the principle shall be deemed a bad one; in such a public and solemn trial, he should rejoice;—but lie knows that the mean are the ignorant :—he knows that he can appeal to in- controvertible facts, and leave it to them, for temporary pur- poses, to deal in unsupported assertions; he knows that in- terested insinuation cannot refute those public demonstrations which he has made and shall make, with equal publicity, again, and again, and again ; he knows that if he can render himself eminently useful to others, he shall be entitled to their good opinion, in spite of party intrigue ; he desires to obtain that good opinion in no other way, and shall be con- tented to forfeit it if he cannot, in that way, obtain it.15 CONVERSATIONS, among those Gentlemen also who choose to attend, in which each will have an opportunity of conversing with and examining another on the same subjects, will be held at the Lecture Room, every Saturday Morning, from Eleven- till Twelve o’clock. Neither these Examinations nor Conversations will require any additional fee. By these means; by means of the Private De- monstrations , after every difficult Lecture, (which will be given almost every evening, from Seven till Eight o’clock) and by means of the general plan of both Courses, so amply detailed, Mr tValker thinks it not derogatory to the character of Science to say, that he engages to render any gentleman, of reason- able application, perfectly versed in these Sciences du- ring two seasons of attendance ; and if, in that timet that object be not effected, HE WILL BE HAPPY TO COMPLETE IT BY PRIVATE INSTRUC- TION WITPIOUT EXPENCE TO THE PUPIL. In order also to facilitate the mode of study, and accelerate the progress of the pupil, a SYLLABUS, exhibiting the heads of each Lecture will be pub- lished. By means of it, the pupil may prepare him- self for every Lecture, or readily bring to recollec- tion whatever he may have heard. As this Syllabus also contains hints of every fact in Anatomy and Physiology, it will form the text-book of the Exa- minations and Conversations.A detailed CERTIFICATE correctly exhibit- ing the progress of each Gentleman, will be given to him, at the end of the period of his attendance. Mr Walker will receive into his house, at Adams’ Square, a few HOUSE PUPILS, who, while they have the advantage of Lodging and Boarding, will receive Private Instructions and have liberty of attending both Courses of Public Lectures—Terms One Hundred Guineas per annum. For further particulars, Gentlemen may apply to Mr Walker. N. B.—The first two volumes of Mr 1 Talker’s System of Anatomy and Physiology will be published early in the Course. i st. ann’s park, 15th October, 1808. EDINBURGH—PilijmtD AT THE UNII'ERSITT PRESS.bine its facts, its arrangements and its language. 1 * com- PROSPECTUS OF THE ARCHIVES OF UNIVERSAL SCIENCE; To be Edited by ALEXANDER WALKER, Esq. lecturer ON PHYSIOLOGY, &c. And PUBLISHED QUARTERLY, (the 1st No. appearing iu January) by Sir Richard Phillips, No 6. Bridge Street, Blackfriars, London, and Messrs. Thomas Bryce <Sf Co. Infirmary Street, Edinburgh, and sold also by all Booksellers. THE utility of well conducted Periodical Publications is unquestionable. Those, however, which now exist, are, avowedly, confined to individual departments of Science, nor do they, either separately, or conjointly, extend to many of these. Chemistry and Natural Philpsophy, Medicine and Surgery, are almost the only subjects of them. It is certainly, there- fore, to be regretted, that Literature and the Fine Arts, Moral and Political Science, neither less generally interesting, nor less important in their nature, should remain unembraced by any or by all of them. The original papers, however, which even these limited Journals contain, are not always of the greatest value, and the criticisms which some of them involve, being always anonymous, they certainly may, with the less difficulty, serve either the purposes of undiscriminating friend- ship, or of deliberate malice, and become rather remarkable for confusing die views and ob- structing the advancement, than for illuminating the dark paths, and accelerating the progress of Science, The grand object of the work, now proposed, will be, by giving in detail all those subjects which other journals embrace, and by involving also all THOSE OTHER SUBJECTS OF SCIENCE WHICH THEY DO NOT EMBRACE,TO EXHIBIT, EITHER IN VALUABLE ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS, OR IN CRITICAL ANALYSES OF EVERY WORK CONTAINING NEW AND IMPORTANT OBSERVATIONS, THE PROGRESS WHICH ALL THE SCIENCES AND ARTS ARE EVERY DAY MAKING THROUGHOUT THE WORLD ; AND FURTHER, ALSO, BY ASSIGNING, TO EACH DISCOVERV, ITS PLACE IN A NATURAL ARRANGEMENT, TO APPRECIATE ITS VALUE, AND POINT OUT ITS INFLUENCE UPON THE SCIENCES, AND ITS APPLICATION TO THE ARTS. Tbs most striking also of the effects which this is intended to produce, is, as completely as possible to prevent the incalculable expence of obtaining, and the labour of perusing the immense number of pe- riodical and other works, which evpry day issue from the press ; while, at the same time, it places their contents in such a point of view as can only be exhibited by persons who are at once versed in all the Sciences. As certain general views, and especially such as refer to arrangement, must have the most extensive influence over the management of so vast an undertaking, the Editor will now, before the intended mode of publication is explained, rapidly sketch his views of these preliminary- subjects. 1 ment Many of the most important facts of Science are certainly slighted ; the processes of judee- : are too often neglected; and rational theory is almost entirely forgotten: curious trifles, falsely denominated philosophic ; flights of imagination, which please because they are peculiar and brilliant, but delusive hypotheses occupy their place. No arrangement is adopted in Science few of its inductions can be consistent; and from its facts no general theory can be established all its data are dispersed ; each must afford to individual caprice a new conclusion and . * one present a contradictory hypothesis. Even its language k not definite ; arrangement is sequently, in some measure, rendered useless, and truth remains too often unestablished • lC° ~ every thing, is rendered either arbitrary or vague; fruitless contests perpetually arise • error^nd confusion are propagated. 1 ’ na Thus, in my opinion, the facts, the arrangements, the theories and the laneua-re of are equally defective. a b 1 Lienee But let us, for a moment, consider its theories, because in them an attempt is madeK I LUp t ? S Of all the great hypotheses which have held an empire over Science, each, perhaps, in turn, has obtained the admiration of the Philosophers who lived during that epoch to which it owed its existence, and has also, in its turn, been thought to merit only the contempt or the invective of the following one. r This reflection forces me to condemn and to protest against that influence over the pursuits of Science, which the authority of great men has unwisely been permitted to assume unwisely, I say, because, in every question, the circumstances of which admit of and afford time for experi- ment and induction, the slightest reverence for authority, proves a proportionate privation of intellect. “ As to the overmuch credit,” says Lord Bacon, “ that hath been given unto Authors in “ Sciences, in making them dictators, that their works should stand; and not consuls to give ad- “ vice, the damage is infinite that Sciences have received thereby, as the principal cause that “ hath kept them low, at a stay, without growth or advancement. It is under the impression left by such views as these, that I think we ought to investigate those hypotheses in Philosophy, which, though at variance with common opinion, appear admi- rably ingenious, have not yet been successfully answered, and are, on that account, embraced by the most profound Philosophers of the present day. Every system then may be properly considered, with regard to its facts, its arrangement, its theory and its language. As to the facts, those of two centuries are before us, and I am convinced that they only require arrangehient in order to exhibit a connected and natural system of science. Its arrangement then is the first, and, indeed, the chief portion of any system which re- quires previous consideration. Such arrangement ought to exhibit the connection of the Sciences in general, and that of their individual portions with each other; and to shew, that instead of being disjoined, they, in reality,constitute, as it were, one science. This important truth I shall support by some very remarkable quotations from the works of Cicero, Lord Bacon and M. d’Alembert, though it will appear that the two latter, who at- tempted it, completely failed in constructing a system upon the principle. “ Etenim omnes artes,” says Cicero *, “ quse ad humanitatem pertinent, habept quoddam “ commune vinculum, et quasi cognatione quadam inter se continentur.” “ And generally let this be a rule” says Lord Bacon f, “ that all partitions of knowledge be « accepted rather for lines and veins, than for sections and separations, and that the continuance « and entireness of knowledge be preserved. For the contrary hereof hath made particular “ Sciences to become barren, shallow and erroneous, while they have not been nourished and “ maintained from the common fountain.” L’Univers,” says M. d’Alembert f, “ pour qui sauroit l’embrasser d’un seul point de « vue, ne seroit, s’il est permis de le dire, qu’un fait unique et une grande verite.” To such as respect authorities, these are great and decided. But unfortunately these senti- ments were not justly appreciated, clearly defined, accurately traced, or realised in application, even by the Philosophers who were impressed by then;. In order to evince the superiority of the natural system, upon •which the proposed -work •will he conductud, and its independence of their plans, I shall here prefix some critical observa- tions on the plans of Lord Bacon, Mr Locke, and M. d’Alembert. On this great and important subject, the plan proposed by Lord Bacon, is, in my opinion, very erroneous in two primary and essential points ; fu st, because in arranging Science according to the operations of the mind, it supposes these operations to precede natural facts, which is evi- dently absurd; and secondly, because by subjecting one Science to memory, another to imagi- nation, and a third to reason, it contradicts this infallible principle, that there is no Science which is exclusively the object of any one of the human faculties, or from the study of which man can derive benefit, without employing all of them. These observations will be justified by a view of his arrangement. Accordino-to Lord Bacon, Science is divided into History, Poctiy and Philosophy, cor- responding to° and dependent upon these three faculties of the mind, Memory, Imagination, Reason : History upon Memory, Poetry upon Imagination, and Philosophy upon Reason. Now, 1 say, this arrangement of the Sciences, according to an imaginary dependence upon the operations of the mind, supposes these operations to precede natural facts, which evidently is absurd, and by subjecting one Science to Memory, another to Imagination, and a third to Reason, it contradicts this infallible principle, that there is no Science which is exclusively the object of any one of the human faculties, or from the study of which man can derive benefit without employing all of them. Thus it involves two fundamental errors....If, indeed, History be not rendered a source of induction, its grand, its only end, it may become the mere o ’Nj. memory. But who then would wish to record human actions, or who would peruse a 1 of them ! It is only when History is treated as the source of induction, where Reason compares, * Pro Arch. Foct. Orat. + Of the advancement of Learning, Book. II. $ Discours Prdiminaire de L’Encyclopedic.