135 EXTERNAL INJURIES. times of a dark colour, owing to eftiision of blood into the cel- lular substance. When the contusion is considerable, it renders the womid incapable of uniting by the first intention, and excites inflammation, which either terminates in mortification, or leads to supj)uration, according to the extent of the injiu*y, and the irrita- bility of the patient. It was formerly the custom to cut away the contused and lacerated edges, to supersede the more tedious pro- cess of slougliing; but natm’e is now allowed to determine what portion is incapable of recovering. All foreign matters ought to be carefully removed from the wound, and its edges shoidd then be placed as nearly as possible in contact If there is no great de- gree of contusion, stitches may be employed for this purpose; but, generally speaking, it is better to abstain from them ; and if they are used, any appearance of inflammation should be the signal for their removal. Cold a])plications are proper in the first instance, and ought to be continual until the wound either unites or inflames. In the latter case warm fomentations and poultices are required; but they must be laid aside as soon as the sloughs have separated and the granulating action is established. If continued longer than this, they induce great relaxation of the parts concerned, al- ready weakened by the injuiy, render the granulations large and flabhy, and prevent the sores from contracting. The ulcer always tends from its own nature to weakness of action, and therefore, in- stead of these enfeebling applications, requires stimulating washes, with pressm-e. Gun-shot wounds are solutions of continuity effected through the agency of substances impelled by fii’e-arms. They are generally punctured as to their fonn, and always contused as to their surface. They are consequently apt to occasion extensive inflammation, and sloughing of the parts more immediately concerned. The orifice by wbich a ball enters is small, round, depressed, and livid; that by wliicli it escapes larger, more elongated, and rather everted at its edges. These appearances vary with the velocity of the ball, the entrance being most, and the exit least distinctly characterized when it is greatest, and vice versa. The wound when first received, occasions a numb sort of sensation, but before long becomes acutely painful, ft bleeds less than an incised wound in the same situation w'ould do. When of any considerable extent, it invariably causes, immediately on its infliction, an extreme degree of incnfrl alarm, despondency, and prostration of strength. This constitutional of-