301 ABDOMEN. edges of the wound ought then to be stitched together with the in- terrupted suture, and the patient must afterwards he diligently pro- tected from all sources of excitement A slender diet, cooling laxa- tives, and moderate depletion, may be emj)loyed as preventives of inflammation; and shoidd symptoms of it actually appear, free ve- nesection, followed by leeching, together with warm fomentations of the abdomen, is to be employed without loss of time, since the safety of the patient will depend in a great measure on the activity and decision with which these means are administered. During the first twenty-four hours, therefore, the surgeon should be con- stantly on the watch for increase in the frequency or hardness of the pidse, anxiety of the countenance, and tenderness of the abdo- men to pressure. Should there be no positive indication that the wound actually penetrates the peritoneum, as from protrusion of the viscera, it ought to be treated ysdth the same attention as if there were,—since it is much better to run the risk of being too careful, than to fall into the opposite error of not being sufficiently so. And it would be highly improper to decide the question by probing, as, in cuse of the wound penetrating, this must necessarily increase the danger of inflammation. AVhen the intestine is wounded, the injury must be regarded as much more severe, and likely to be followed by the worst conse- quences. The reason of this will appear from the fact, that when- ever the contents of the stomach, or any of the bowels, are effused over the surface of the peritoneum, death is the invariable, and, in general, very speedy result When this extravasation occurs in consequence of disease, the effect is the same, unless the ulcerative process, that forms the breach in the intestine, is preceded by or ac- companied with such an eft’usion of lymph as limits the extent of the mischief, and confines the extravasation within the bounds of an abscess. It is not easy to tuiderstand how the intestinal matters operate thus fatally on the system, when they escape into the cavity of the abdomen ; for the j)aticnt often dies in a few hours after the discharge takes place, and long before it can be su})posed that in- flammation has even been excited, far less carried to the. extent rc- (piisite for destroying life. The symptoms presented are intense burning pain of the abdomen,—insatiable thirst,—coldness of the extremities,—collapse of the features,—cold clammy sweat,—small frequent pulse,—coffee-coloured vomiting; in short, the condition induced is nearly that of sinking from mortification. The fatal