75 DISEASED NUTRITION. I it is extremely uncertain, being in some cases very severe, in others hardly perceptible. This morbid growth, after attaining a certain size, tends to open and protrude the soft substance composing it. It does so by slough- ing, the formation and evacuation of an abscess, or sunply ulcera- tion. In whichever of these ways the bursting, as it is called, takes place, the integuments covering the tumour first become red and adherent, then the breach is established, the substance of the tu- mour presents itself to view, and fungous excrescences usually shoot out from the cavity. The discharge that ensues is always profuse, j and generally very thin, excessively fetid, and occasionally bloody. j; In some cases pure blood is effused from time to time in considera- ble quantity; and hence, Mr Iley of Leeds, who first gave a ge- 'i ncral description of the disease, named it Fungus HcBmatodes, This term cannot be applied with propriety, and leads to much confu- ■; sion, because the fungous protrusions of medullary sarcoma do not always, or even generally bleed, while a bleeding fungus may ap- pear without being preceded by the medullary formation. There | is nothing particidar in the structure of such bleeding excrescences ; | and if the term fungus hcmiatodes be retained, it should have its use ^ confined to express simply the fact of there being a fungous pro- f trusion from which blood issues. k Medullary sarcoma, in its advanced stage, is attended with a greenish-yellow complexion, and general emaciation. If allowed to proceed, it sooner or later destroys the patient by gradual ex- | haustion. The rapidity of its course, like that of carcinoma, is § extremely variable, and cannot be foretold according to any data with which we are as yet acquainted. The treatment of this dis- ^ ease is, if possible, still less satisfactory than that of the one first mentioned. All local applications and internal remeilies are ad- I mitted to be totally useless. The only mode of affording relief is | I excision ; and, owing to the tendency of the morbid action to dif- | I fuse itself into the neighbouring parts, whatever be thefr nature or I texture, as well as the taint, or unhealthy disposition of the system, p I leading to its appearance in different parts of the body at the same | ! time, the operations for this purpose are very often followed by re- I lapse. Unless, however, the case does not permit complete abla- | tion of the tumour, or there should be indications of the disetisc ex- [■ |: isting in other re^ons of the body, or the pulse is (quickened by the ! local irritation, in which case, so far as I have observed, recovery u \- never follows an operation, it is the duty of the surgeon to give the