385 PELVIS. aggravate the patient’s sufferings, ^he disease usually occurs in young and middle-aged men. It is occasioned by vsxrious circum- stances, such as over-distension, which in the first instance causes paralysis of the muscular fibres, the irritation of stimulating food, or chronic inflammation, spreading back from the urethra, or ori- ginating in the mucous coat of the bladder, in consequence of ex- posure to cold, or other exciting causes of inflammatory derange- ment. The treatment consists in using measures of a soothing na- ture, of which rest, both of mind and body, is an essential one. This, together with a milk diet, copious diluent drinks, and the hip-bath, sometimes proves sufficient In more severe cases, in- jections of two or three ounces of warm water, with a few drops of laudanum, or the sedative solution of opium, may be thrown into the rectum once a-day or oftener. Benefit is also derived on some occasions from hyoscyamus and camphor, administered in the form of pill, also from ten or twelve drops of balsam of copaiva, with five or six of the sedative solution, taken two or three times a-day, and from small doses of Dover’s powder, with colchicum. Blisters ap- plied to the sacrum or perineum, contrary to what might be ex- pected, sometimes afford relief, and a seton in the latter situation has succeeded after the trial of other means in vain. The opera- tion of vesiccB lotura, or injecting the bladder, bas often been used with temporary, but seldom with any permanent advantage. A de- coction of marsh-mallows, or other demulcent mucilage, with a few drops of laudanum, is introduced by means of a catheter and syringe, or elastic bag, once a-day, in such quantity as the irritable bladder is capable of receiving without pain, and allowed to remain until the desire of expulsion leads to its discharge. In cases w'hich de- rive benefit from this practice, it is observed that the quantity of fluid injected, and the time it is permitted to remain, gradually in- crease. When the disease commences without any assignable cause, it generally proves extremely obstinate, and not unfrequently incurable. Catarrh of the Bladder. This title is applied to an inordinate secretion of mucus from the bladder, and discharge of it in the urine, at the bottom of which, when voided, it forms a glairy sediment, sometimes nearly equal in quantity to the fluicb The disease usually occurs asso- ciated with the one last mentioned, and, though not necessarily ac- companying, hardly exists independently of it. What has been said