EYE. 4.55 when the eyelids are separated, and occasionally cannot be re- duced without considerable difficulty. In the latter case, excision is the preferable practice; but, in the former condition, which is more frequently met with, though the knife and scissors have been employed, there can be no doubt that thq best treatment consists in touching the granular surface from time to time, at the distance of a day or two, with lunar caustic. Staphyloma is a projection of the cornea, of a round or conical form, and protruding more or less beyond the eyelids. It depends on expansion, together with thickening of the tissue concerned, which sometimes partially retains its translucency, but more fre- quently loses it entirely. The surface displays arborescent ves- sels, conveying red blood, and, in cases where the tumour is large, acquires a cuticular covering. The eye is rendered totally useless as an organ of vision ; and the patient is apt to suffer occasionally from attacks of inflammation, which are induced by tbe exposed state of the organ to external irritation. The disease generally occurs as a consequence of inflammation of the purulent kind, but is sometimes brought on by violence. It almost always commences during infancy or childhood; and after attaining a certain extent, does not tend to increase. The treatment is either palliative or radical; the former consisting in the use of means calculated to allay the symptoms of temporary irritation; the latter in cutting away the whole of the projection from within a line of the sclero- tic, wliich is easily done by pushing a sharp-pointed knife through it, and then cutting transversely so as to complete the division, first of one-half, and then of the other, while the flap is held so as to steady the part under the knife. After this operation, the humours of the eyeball are more or less comj)letely discharged, and the collapsed coats occasion no farther trouble, or may even be made the support of an artificial eye to conceal the defect. The best ap- plication during this process is a poultice, and if the inflammation runs too high, it must, of course, be controlled by appropriate mea- sures. Inflammation of the Sclerotic. The fibrous tissue of the eye is apt to inflame in persons who * are subject to rbeumatism, or who have had their constitutions impaired by the prejudicial influence of mercury, administered for the cure of venereal diseases. The attack is induced by the ordi- nary exciting causes of ophthalmy, especially exposure to cold. It