rnixciPLES OF surgerv. 298 there, in“order to avoid cutting and tying them twice over. Tliis advantage is more theoreticiil than practical, and does not afford any sufficient recompense for the risk and trouble rcnjuired in dig- ging out the glands, before free access to them has been obtained by removing the mamma. The edges of the wound should be stitched together, and compresses of lint will be useful if placed over the integuments which have been undermined in the opera- tion. A handkerchief, or broad bandage, long enough to surround the chest once, ought then to be applied. Medullary Sarcoma. The medullary sarcomatous affection of the mamma occurs at all periods of life beyond ])uberty, but most frequently about middle age. The tumour is recognized by its usual characters of irregu- larly nodulated surface, and soft elastic consistence, either through- out its whole extent, or at the most prominent parts, which are ge- nerally red, either of a dull or bright hue, and exhibit numerous small arborescent vessels. The p<iin attending the disease varies much in ibfferent cases, being at one time very severe, at another hardly perceptible. When there is a strong disposition to the un- healthy action, the complexion of the patient is of a greenish-yel- low colour, and the countenance has a peculiar anxious expression. The tendency of the morbid growth is to enlarge; to contract ad- hesions with the integuments and muscles in its neighbourhood; to excite a similar disease in the axillary glands; to suppurate, ul- cerate, and fungate; and occasionally in this last sUige to throw out blood from time to time, but more frequently a thin watery' dis- charge, which is in general very copious and fetich The substance of the tumour often protrudes at the ulcerated openings in large masses, which seem nearly in a sloughing state, and are occasion- ally altogether detached. The bulk of the swelling is thus dimi- nished, but enough of the disease remains to prevent a cure Irom being accomplisbech The different steps of this process are completed, and follow each other with various degrees of rapidity. A few months are some- times sufficient for the whole progress from the first to the last sta"e. and, on the other hand, years even may elapse before the disease proves fatal. All external and internal remedies have been found quite una- vailing in the treatment of medidlary sarcoma, whether in the mamma or elsewhere, and the only mode of affording the patient