ARDOiNJEN. 305 If it should ever be desired to puncture in this situation, the safest plan is to introduce the instrument at the distance of a hands- breadth from the crest of the ilium, in the course of a line extend- ing from the spinous process to the umbilicus. The patient should be seated on a chair, or the edge of his bed, with the back and legs properly supported. A flannel ban- dage, nine inches broad, and long enough to surround the abdo- men, cross behind, and leave a sufficient hold for an assistant on each side, whose duty is to maintain the pressure as it is diminished by the evacuation of the fluid, is applied. The surgeon then having made an aperture in the bandage, opposite the part where he wishes to puncture, and holding the handle of the trocar in the palm of his hand, wliile the point of his fore-finger is rested on the abdo- men by the side of the cannula, pushes the instrument through the thin distended parietes, until he feels that the point does not en- counter any more resistance. He then withdraws the trocai*, and at the same time insinuates the cannula a little farther, to prevent any chance of its escape during the flow of the fluid. When it ap- pears that the cavity has been emptied, the cannula may be taken out,—a piece of folded lint is placed on the w'ound,—the ends of the bandage, which hitherto have been held by the assistants, are brought round and fastened over the front, or opposite sides of the abdomen,—and the patient is replaced in bed Hemorrhage sometimes follows this operatiim, independently of injury inflicted on the arteries. The origin of the bleeding in such cases is very obscure, but may, with most probability, be ascribed to the sudden diminution of pressure which is sufiered by the ca- pillary vessels. The occimrence is fortunately very rare, as it does not admit of any remedy, and, indeed, cannot even be discovered until the abdomen is opened after death. lleriua. When the viscera of the abdomen are protruded through the parietes of their containing cavity, while the integuments covering the part remain entire, the displacement is named a Hernia. It wiis formerly thought that the peritoneum was necessarily torn in such cases, whence the disease was named Rupture; but it has been fully ascertained, that, except in some few rare CAses, this membrane always remains entire, and being piished before the pro- truded viscera, constitutes a pouch or Sac, as it is called, for their reception. Hernia may take place at almost any part of the abdo- u