PRINCIPLES OF SURGERV. 32‘2 XliG Ctiuses of feiBorftl, like those of inguinal hernia, are predis- posing and exciting. The predisposition to femoral hernia is near- ly as much greater in the female, as that to inguinal hernia is in the male, owing to the breadth of the pelvis in the former sex, and the consequent width of the femoral aperture's. The exciting cir- cumstances are similar to those that have been mentioned, but are apt to be assisted in their operation by the distended state of the abdomen to which females are liable from pregnancy; and many of the femoral hernias which occur in practice are accordingly re- ferred to the violent expulsive efforts of parturition. The ileum and omentum are the parts usually protruded. The tumour is ge- nerally of a small size, and sometimes can be discovered only by feeling in the situation where it is suspected. On account of this circumstance, which is apt to conceal the disease from the patient, and also because females are apt to be prevented by feelings of delicacy from disclosing its existence, it is jjrudent on all occasions, where symptoms indicative of hernia are complained of, to insist upon an examination of the groins. The diagnosis of femoral hernia is often more difficult than that of inguinal. When reducible, it may be confounded with psoas abscess pointing under Poupart's ligament, and in the two other conditions of incarceration and strangulation it is frequently dis- tinguished .with difficulty from swelling or inflammation, of the in- guinal glands. If the tumour depends on a reducible hernia, it will disappear under moderate pressure, or by assuming the hori- zontal posture ; but if it is owing to a collection of matter, though lessened perhaps, it wall not be entirely removable by pressure, how'ever carefully applied, so long as the patient remains erect. From chronic swelling, or acute inflammation of the glands, it may be distinguished by the thickness and fixture of its neck—its more smooth and globular surface—and generally by its historj-. If a hernia, the tumour will either have existed for a length of time previously, and given indication of its nature by some of the clia-' racteristic symptoms, or have appeared suddenly in consequence of a violent exertion. Glandular sw'ellings again, if chronic, will probably have had their nature ascertained, and if recent, cue usual- ly connected with some source of irritation that leads to their re- cognition. It is important, however, to know that the glands may become suddenly large and painful in consequence of the strain from a violent effort, in which case sickness, vomiting, and consti- pation, are not unfrequently induced by the irritation. Enlarged