239 JOINTS. otamination are in favour of this view, and the symptoms observed xxtcnially all lead to the same conclusion. The long existing pain tt distant parts of the limb, before any trace of disease at the part I'cally affected can be observed, is strongly characteristic of chronic iiflammation in the osseous tissue; the freedom of motion without uiy crepitus, that continues during the second stage, is hardly re- I'oncileable either with ulceration of the cartilage, or thickening of ihe synovial membrane ; and the dissections that have been record- d, in wliich the bones were found principally affected, afford a ■trong proof that they are the original seat of the malady. In the ;hird stage there is unfortunately no want of opportunity for inves- igation by the knife; but then, as always happens in diseases of ;he joints which have advanced to suppuration, the whole articular ■pparatus is so involved in the destructive process, that the part .primarily affected cannot be recognized. In three cases which I aave dissected at the beginning of the third stage, that is, after 'Juj)piu-ation, but before the matter was discharged externally, the rrticular cartilage was sotmd everywhere, both on the head of the 'emur and on the acetabulum, except a small portion not so large a sixpence at the centre of this cavity, where it was removed, and dlowed a probe to pass into or rather through the bone. In one :>f these cases the synovial membrane was gelatinous, but not to any i;onsiderable extent That cases of ulceration of the cai’tilages of he hip-joint do occasionally occur, there can be no doubt, both rom the symptoms and dissections that have been observed; but i-hat these bear a small proportion to those in which the disease )riginates in the bone seems no less certain. The disease may be then regarded as in general consisting pri- ! narily and essentially of clu-onic inflammation in the bones cora- josing the joint, of which the pelvic portion usually suffers more ; hail the femur; and the practice proper for subduing it is conse- I juently that which has been found most efficacious in the treatment )f such affections of the articular apparatus. When the symptoms ire not severe, as is usually the case in the early stage, perfect rest done is recjuired, though it may be prudent also to apply occa- . sionally a few leeches to the groin. For preventing motion nothing inswers so well as the long splint, applied in the same way that has leen advised for fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, no exten- sion being effected, but merely complete fixture of the limb in a line s ith the trunk of the body. But if the pain is severe, so as to dis- urb the patient s sleep, or continues after the means just mentioned