ABDOJIEX. 309 superior extremities; since, to give the muscles of the arms firm j)oiuts of attachment, the chest must be rendered immoveable, and this is done by contracting the diaphragm together with the abdo- minal muscles, while the glottis is kept closely shut The viscera being thus compressed between the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, are violently forced against the whole surface of the cavi- ty, and if any weak part exist in it, a protrusion takes place. This eftect is most apt to happen when an effort is made in the erect pos- ture, for the diaphragm, which then extends obliquely downwards and backwards, will consequently press the viscera downwards and forwards in the direction of the inguinal openings. An attention to the same circumstance will afford some explanation of the fact that inguinal hernia occurs much more frequently on the right than the left side, the reason of which apjjcars to be that, when an ef- fort is made, the trunk of the body is usually bent to the opposite side, and, as most vigorous efforts are made with the right arm, the diaphragm will on such occasions generally present its concave sm*- face, and consequently press, towai'ds the right groin. Tight arti- cles of dress, wliich compress the abdomen, and increase the con- finement of its contents without strengthening the parietes at the natural apertures, promote the occurrence of hernia. The symptoms of inguinal hernia cannot he properly described or understood, without considering separately three different states in which the disease may exist. In the first of these, the viscera rc- tiu*n into the abdomen when the j)atient assiunes the horizontal pos- ture, or when moderate pressure is applied to the tumour. The heniia is then said to be Reducible. In the second state the viscera are detained in the sac, but produce no fixrther inconvenience, when the hernia is said to be Incarcerated. And in the third, the viscera are not only prevented from leaving the sac, but suffer in it such pressure or constriction as impedes the exercise of their functions, iind produces otlier bad consequences, in which case the hernia is .said to be Strangulated. The symptoms of Reducible inguinal hernia are, tumour in the region of the inguinal canal, colourless, elastic, and compressible, which disappears when the patient lies down, or when moderate pressm:c is applied. When the viscera return into the abdomen, a gurgling noise or sensation can generally be perceived ; and when the tumour is compressed in the hand, the omentum and coats of the intestine are usually recognized by their consistence, w'hich is doughy in the former, and elastic in the latter. The circumstances