417 GENITAL ORGANS. ployed for the purpose, consist of hooked forceps to draw the mor- bid growth into view, and curved scissors or a bistoury to cut it away. The liemorrhage may generally be restrained by cold ap- plications, and plugging the vagina with lint or sponge ; but if it should prove excessive, the cut surface must be again drawn out and compressed, by transfixing it with a couple of threads, and ty- ing one on each side. The Ovai-ies are liable to various morbid conditions, but parti- cularly two, which often become the subject of surgical considera- tion. Of these, the first that may be mentioned consists in the developement of cysts in their substance, which is thus converted into a cystic tumour. The swelling is at first felt round, firm, and moveable in the inguinal region. It gradually increases, not owing to an equal enlargement of all the cysts, but an extension of one or more of them. The cavity of the abdomen is distended, and at length appears as if the peritoneum were the seat of drop- sical effusion. The ])rogress of the disease is very variable; some- times proceeding rapidly to the extinction of life, by pressing to a fatal degree on the vital organs of the abdomen or chest, but more frequently allowing years to elapse before coming to this termina- tion. The disease commences most fretpiently in young females; but is met with at all periods of life. It is distinguished in its ad- vanced stage from ascites, chiefly by the history of the case. The treatment of Ovarian Dropsy, as this affection is called, proves still less satisfactory than that of dropsy of the peritoneum, which will not excite surprise, when it is recollected, that the dis- eased action in the latter case is simply an increased secretion, while in the former it is a new and peculiar formation. Purga- tives, diuretics, and all other means emj)loyed to promote absorption of the accumulated fluid, almost invariably prove quite unavailing; and paracentesis, though it affords some temporary relief, seems in general to hasten the progress of the disease. The operation, there- fore, ought not to be performed, except when the patient is suffering extreme distress, and threatened with speedy dissolution. Various methods ot effecting a radical cure have been proposed, and in a few cases subjected to trial. Of these the chief are, throwing injections into the sac, introducing a seton through it, and drawing it out of the abdomen by a small aperture in the parietes. The extent, situation, and connection of the cysts, must render such proceed- ings dangerous and uncertain; and, even if, by some rare chance, any of them should prove successful in removing or obliterating