243 JOINTS. I I acvomion process, the os humeri could be felt and seen “ totally di- vested of its bursal ligament.” ]\Ir White made an incision from the acromion process half-way down the arm, protruded the head of the bone through the opening thus obfciined, and sawed it off. At the end of two months he found that a large piece of the remaining bone had become loose, and easily removed it with a pair of force{)s. The patient was per- I: fcctly cured at the end of fom- months from the operation. The I arm was then not cpiite an inch shorter than the other, and he had 1 the ])erfect use of it. In a work published some years ago,* I ex- i' pressed my persuasion that this was not a case of caries, as it had j. generally been regarded, but one of acute necrosis ; and tbe fol- lowing very curious companion to it at a more advanced stage, • seems strongly corroborative of that opinion. 1 Thomas Cairns, aged 13, from Saline, recommended by Mr Craig I of Ratho, was admitted into the Infinnary on the 30th of June, on siccount of a great enhirgement of the right shoulder, attended with pain and discharge of matter. It was stated that ten months before be liad fallen from a wall about four feet high among loose stones, and afterwards had been pretty severely handled by a bone-setter, who ■ alleged that the humerus wtis broken near the joint. Inflammation : and suppuration followed, openings for the discharge of matter took place at various parts, the joint became stiff, and the patient’s strength declined. In these circumstances, he was sent to town to be under my care. ’ As it was impossible to obtain any satisfactoiy information in re- i gard to the condition of the joint by introducing a probe, I en- arged the sinus that led most directly towards it sufficiently to ad- nit my finger, with the ])oint of which the head of the bone was 1 elt bare and smootb. The extreme firmness of ttie surroundin" ! )arts prevented a more free examination, but the information thus \rained, together with the history of the case, convinced me that a : )ortion of the bone was dead, and detached. I therefore extended ! ipwards the incision already made, finding it necessary to use for his pur])ose both the knife and cutting-pliers, and then ascertained liat the exfoliation lay loose in a bony case. Being unwilling to ■ emove any of the new formed osseous substance which was destin- i Ul to take the place of the old bone, I forcibly dilated the edges of ' le aperture until the shell gave way sufficiently to permit the ex- action of the sequestrum, wliicli was then easily effected. After • Treatise on tbe Excision of Diseased Joints, 1831.