PIUXCIPLES OF SURCtERY. 430 This collection of fluid generally takes place gradually within a few hours, or, at most, a day or two after the accident, but some- times does not appear until a week has elapsed. The edges of the seal]) surrounding it are very firm, and somewhat thickened, whence there is some risk of erroneously supposing, from a careless exa- mination, that the skull is depressed. The blood is usually absorb- ed either spontaneously, or under the influence of a discutient lo- tion, assisted by pressure, but occasionally excites sutficient irrita- tion by its presence to cause the formation of an abscess. Should this change occur, a free opening must be made for the escape of the matter, and stimulating washes with a compress afterwards ap- plied ; and, if the quantity of fluid effused in the first instance is very large, or does not soon show signs of being absorbed, it may be well, in order to hasten the cure and prevent suppirration, to evacuate the cavity of its contents, and then carefully press its sides together. In some rare cases, one or more of the larger arterial branches are ruptured, and the tumour then not only fluctuates, but pulsates. External pressure is found quite ineffectual in checking the accu- mulation when proceeding from this source, and the only method of remedying it consists in laying open the cavity, sponging out the blood, and securing the injured vessels by ligature, or the apjjlica- tion of compresses on their orifices. Bruises of the seal]), though perha])s ap])arently very trivial, are sometimes followed, at a distant date after the accident, by very disagreeable symptoms, denoting chronic inflammation of the pericranium, or dura ynatrr. In such cases there are usually indications of constitutional derangement previous to the accident, and means proper for correcting this ge- neral disorder may be sufficient to remove the local complaint But if the patient, after being subjected to an alterative course of diet and medicines, still suffers from painful sensations of the scalp, ag- gravated by pressure on the injured part, from- headach and sick- ness, or from perversion of any function connected with the cerebral organs, a crucial incision ought to be made down to the bone through the whole extent of the scalp affected, which should be ])revcnted from healing by the introduction of lint between its edges, and kept open as an issue, until it is closed by the contraction of the granu- lating process. Wounds of the scalp arc to be treated in accordance with the general princi])les that have been explained. The neighbouring hairs .slioidd be always shaved clean away, and those more distant cut short to prevent them from insinuating themselves between