179 BONES. treatment ])ropcr for fractiu'e is the same with that required for a bruise of the muscles, the only injury with which it can be con- founded. A broad bandage ought to be applied tightly round the chest, and bleeding, purgatives, and tartrate of antimony mxist be used according to circumstances. Fractures of the cranium and vertebrm being of consequence, chiefly on account of their connection with accompanying injuries ot the brain and spinal marrow, will be considered most advantageously along with these subjects. The great strength and arched form of the pelvis enable it to re- sist all ordinary degrees of \dolence, and it is only when subjected to the most powerful compression, as from the weight of a loaded carriage or the force of machinery, that the bones composing it give way. They jield most frequently in the horizontal and descending branches of the os pubis, and at the same time there is usually a se- paration of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis on one or both sides. The precise extent of the injury can hardly be ascertained, except by dissection; but the existence of fracture is generally rendered very manifest by the pain, mobility, and crepitus which attend it Some- times it is made still more obvious by the ran^us of the ischium or pubis being driven thi’ough the perinetun, or the coats of the rec- tum. Such fractures are almost certainly fatil, from the great shock of the system and injury of important organs with which they are accompanied; but the patient ought always to be afforded the chance of recovery, by binding the pelvis tightly with a broad circu- hu- bandage, and protecting him from excitement of every kind. The crest of the ilium is occasionally broken by falls and blows; the accident is easily recognized, produces no serious consequences, and reqmres merely rest, and a spica bandaga Diastasis or Separation of the Epiphyses. Before the epiphyses arc united to their respective shafts, they are aj)t to suffer separation from them by such violence as, in the adult, would occasion fracture of the bones concerned, or dislocation of their articulating extremities. The symptoms resemble those which w’oidd residt from fracture in the same situation, and the treatment does not in any respect require to be different Bending of the Bones. While the bones are young and flexible, they sometimes bend