rUINCIPLES OF SUUGEUY. 342 exists in such cases, it is difficult to decide. Children are not ex- empt from it. In treating the inflammation which precedes the abscess, bleed- ing from the part is never found to be productive of any advantage, and, on the contrary, seems to have an injurious effect in render- ing the morbid process more slow and unmanageable. Warm fo- mentations, gentle laxatives, and emollient injections, afford most relief, and if they do not succeed in resolving the inflammatory ac- tion, hasten its termination in the only other way it admits of, viz. suppuration. When fluctuation can be distinctly perceived, a free opening should he made with the knife to prevent extension of the matter in the cellular substance, after which a poultice may be ap- plied for a few days, and then simple dressing. Various methods have been followed in treating the subsequent sinuses or fistulas. Injections and ointments of every sort have been introduced into them, but seldom if ever with any permanent advantage; and it is now admitted, that, unless they are freely laid open, a ciu’e is next to impracticable. Incisions were formerly practised with another view, which was to remove the callous walls of the cavity, from the erroneous idea that they depended ujx)n a peculiar morbid action, instead of being simply the result of continued irritation. The practice founded on this mistaken principle was no less unsatisfac- tory than severe, as the recovery after operation alw'ays required a long time, and often proved incomplete. Simple division of the septum between the sinus and gut, which is the practice now' em- ployed, has been ])erformed in a manner much more painful, difficult, and uncertain than was necessary. This arose, from its being thought essential to cut the gut as high up as the sinus extended, and to dress the wound with irritating esclmrotic applications, in order to promote the removal of its callous edges and surface. It is now known, that the induration depends entirely upon the irritation of the sinus; also, that the internal opening is always very near the orifice of the gut; and that it is sufficient to divide the part of the septum wdiich lies betw-een the external and internal openings; last- ly, that, unless the internal opening be comprehended in the inci- sion, the division of the septum, however free, wall fail in affording a permanent cure. It may be adde<l, that where an internal open- ing does not exist, a remarkable thinness of the septum, which secnis here to consist merely of the mucous membrane, is ahvays observed at the place where the aperture is usually situated, and in such cases it is found sufficient to cut thus far. The operation