ABDOMEN. 303 ment can be employed to remedy the injury ; and that the patient’s only chance of recovery will depend upon the powers of the system effecting the process of reparation which has been described. The object of the sm’geon should be to prevent this process from being disturbed, with which view, he will be led to enjoin absolute rest, with strict starvation; and, if circumstances require it, will not hesibite to practise free depletion. If the injimed part of the gut is protruded, the case will be different, and an important question will present itself in regard to the management of the wound. Much variety of opinion and practice has existed here; and it must be admitted, that, though some very objectionable methods have been abandonetl, no very satisfactory one has hitherto been devised. If the woimd is very small, and especially if it is seated in a part of the canal not usually distended by its contents, the most pru- dent course will probably be to return the gut, as if it were sound, without any more ceremony. Should the wound be somewhat more than a mere puncture, and allow its cut edges to be distin- guished, a thread ought to be passed through them by means of a roinid sewing needle, and tied, after wliich both ends may be cut away close to the knot, and the gut returned, since it has been ascertained by experiments on the lower animals, that stitch- es inserted into the coats of the intestinal canal are detached by ulcerative absorption towards the interior of the tube, and thus escape with the feculent discharge. * If the wound is so large as to require more than one stitch, as many as seem necessaiy are to be introduced in the same way at the distance of a quarter of an inch, or less, from each other. If the wound is lacerated or con- tused, the injured part should be cut away before the edges are joined. And, finally, if the whole circumference of the gut is di- vided, it may be best to insert only one stitch on the side next the mesentery, so iis to keep the two mouths of the intestine together, and then retain the aperture of the canal in correspondence with the external wound, by means of threads passed through their re- spective edges. A pretcrnatiu-al opening for the discharge of the bowel must thus in all probability be formed in the first instance; but the immediate danger will be diminished, while room is afford- ed for subsequent reparation, in the way that will hereafter be de- scribed. The viscera of the abdomen, with which may be included the urinai7 bladder in its distended state, are liable to be ruptured by external violence without the infliction of a penetrating wound. • Travers on Injuries of the Intestines. 1812.