PELVIS. 347 cessive action are irritations, sometimes indirectly applied, as those proceeding from exposure to cold, the use of stimulating food or drink, or the employment of cantharides; but more frequently of a local kind, as from inflammation of the extremity of the urethra, spreading back towards the bladder, or from the injurious eflects of instruments introduced into the canal. If these circumstances operate on a person whose urethra is previously diseased, and more especially if it shmdd be already contracted from any cause, the retention of urine will of course he more readily and completely induced. From the nature of the exciting circumstances, it may be inferred that, along with the muscular constriction, there is a thickening of the mucous membrane, depending on vascular en- gorgement, which contributes to tlie effect, and must be kept in view during the treatment. As the disease depends on irritation, soothing measures ought always to be employed in the first instance. Mild and anodyne injections thrown into the rectum, the liip-bath, and venesection, if the pulse should require it, often prove suflBcient to afford relief. Should they fail in doing so, and the symptoms be urgent, it will be necessary to draw off* the water by the catheter, since the addi- tional irritation thus occasioned is more than counterbalanced by the good effect of emptying the bladder, which, when stimulated by distension, reacts upon the spasmodically contracted muscles at its neck, and increases their resistance. The instrument used on this occasion should be neither full-sized, as the lu-ethra is not only compressed by the muscles, but also swollen and contracted, nor very small, as the excited and congested membrane is softer, and, consequently, more easily torn than usual. It should be pas- sed very gently, and with great care to avoid the erroneous direc- tions of its point, wlxich have been mentioned above, and in this case are extremely apt to occasion breaches, that increase the difficulty of the operation, by exciting still more irritation,—by causing he- morrhage,—and by misleading the surgeon in lus future attempts. The relief afforded by evacuation is seldom permanent, the irritat- ed state of the organs giving rise to a deceitful feeling of disten- sion, and rendering the patient very soon desirous of having the ca- theter again introduced. To obviate these uneasy symptoms, an opiate injection ought to be thrown into the rectum immediately after the instrument is withdrawn; and the operation ought not to be repeated oftener than there may be reason to suppose that the urine