PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 336 to make a free division of the integuments and sphincter, than sub- ject the intestine to the risk of injm-y from violent efforts at ex- traction. Hemorrhoids. By Hemorrhoids, or Piles, are understood tumours of different kinds which are met with at the verge of the anus, either without or within the sphincter,—in the former of which cases they arc said to be external, and in the latter internal. They sometimes depend on a varicose condition of the hemorrhoidal veins, which form round, tense, dark-coloured swellings,—but they more fre- quently consist of a morbid growth of the skin or mucous mem- brane, and subjacent cellular tissue. When external, they are of a round or flattened form, and except when suffering from inflam- mation, possess the natural appearance and consistence of the part. When internal, they are very vascu- lar, generally of a florid colour, and uneven on the surface like a straw- berry. External hemorrhoids occasion little inconvenience, unless irritated or inflamed, when they become much en- larged, round, tense, and extremely painful, especially if subjected to pres- sure. But those of the internal kind are productive of more continued dis- tress, by protruding from slight exer- tions, or bleeding at stool, or exciting sympathetic uneasiness in the urinary organs. These symptoms are not al- ways equally severe, but, while hardly ever absent altogether, are aj)t to suffer occasional exacerbations, in consequence of general or lo- cal irritation, which constitute w'hat are called fits of the Piles. They exist sometimes together, sometimes separately, and one j>a- tient may complain merely of protrusion of the bowel, or bleeding from it, while another refers his sufferings entirely to the bladder. The disease is often not detected until an examination is made by the surgeon, and this, therefore, should always be done when the symptoms fme at all suspicious. The circumstances that chiefly tend to produce, and also ag- gravate hemorrhoidal excrescences, are excitement of the digestive