47 GRANULATION. since the pus affords a natural covering to protect it, and would be sufficient for the purpose, if it were not that the risk of injiu’y from contact with external bodies, and the miseemliness of an ulcer ex- posed to view, require some artificial covering. Old linen, lint, or charpie, may be employed for this pm’pose; and perhaps the last- mentioned article is the best, as, being more porous, it allows the pus to pass readily through its interstices. ^Vliatever be the co- vering employed, it should be either spread with some unctuous matter, at least where it lies upon the edges of the ulcer, to which it is otherwTse apt to adhere, and consequently injure them when removed, or, what is better, moistened with water, and prevented from drying by a piece of oiled silk laid over it The ulcer requires to be dressed frequently, in proportion to the quantity of discharge. Once in the twenty-four hours is generally sufficient, but twice is often necessary—and sometimes the interval may be extended to two days or more. One granulating simface may unite with another, when they are placed in contact, and retained together. The cure is thus some- times greatly abridged, and at other times very troublesome adlie- sions may result, as when the respective surfaces of the fingers cU-e idccratcd from any cause. Treutmcnl of Contractions caused by Cicatrization. When the ulcerated surface is extensive, and the integuments surrounding it are easily drawn together, as is the case after burns of the throat, great deformity and inconvenience are frequently oc- casioned by the contracting effect of the granulating action, ren- dering the cicatrix so small as to keep the parts about it perma- nently disjdaced and immoveable. Mere division of the contraction is hardly ever sufficient to remedy the evil, as the firmness of the cicatrix prevents the edge of the cut from being separated much, and any relaxation thus gained is almost always lost during tlie subsequent cicatrization. An ingenious method of treatment was proposed by Mr Earle,*—namely, to cut out the cicatrix entirely, and then unite the edges of the wound laterally, if possible, by the first intention, but, at all events, so as to prevent contraction in the longitudinal direction. In favourable circumstances for its perform- ance, this operation answers extremely well, but these are unfortu- nately seldom met with, and it is obvious, that if the cicatrix be broad, or of much extent in proportion to the size of the part af • Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. v.