138 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. its motion. They are now more scientifically and satisfactorily re- ferred to the action of the ball itself, which has had its velocity so fai’ spent as to bruise merely without wounding. Extremes of Cold and Heat. The first eflfect of cold is to diminish the vital action of the part to which it is applied. This state of depression, when not carried too far or continued too long, is succeeded by more than usual ac- tivity, or what is called re-action, especially if heat or any other stimulus co-operates with the natural tendency to excitement. If this alternation be fi’equently repeated, the part concerned becomes permanently weakened, being slightly swelled, of a purple colour, and not so warm as usual. It is then easily affected by cold, be- coming pale, contracted and numb, and reacts with so much vio- lence as to show sym])toms of inflammation, becoming red, hot, itchy, and painful; not unfrequently vesicated and ulcerated. A part thus injimed by cold is named a Chilblain. Chilblains are most apt to occur in persons who possess weak powers of cmculation, especially young females, and on the same principle take ])lace chiefly at the extremities of the body, viz. the liands and feet. They ought to be guarded against by avoiding sudden and severe alternations of cold with heat When formed, they should be protected from cold, and supported in their actions by stimulating embrocations, such as camphorated oil, strong spirits, or, what has been particularly recommended by Mr Wardrop, a mix- ture of tinct. sap. c. opio, with tinct. Ipttee, in the proportion of six of the fonner to one of the latter. The ulcer of chilblains presents the appearance of a smooth superficial excavation, with thick white edges, and a peculiim viscid slimy discluirge. It heals most readily under the ungucntum oxijdi lujdraryyri ruhri. IVIore intense cold not only weakens, but entii’ely suspends vital action. The part becomes pale, insensible, and shrivelled, and is said to be Frost-bitten. The extremities of the body, such as the fino-ers and toes, the ears and the nose, arc most liable to be thus affected, both fi-om their situation and com])aratively languid cir- culation. A frost-bitten part is not dead, and when freed from the influence of the cold, regains its power of action. It is difficiUt to determine how long the torjior may last without permanently deiiriving the part of life; but there is reason U) suppose that the period is considerable; and it appears from the relation of Sir John