PRINCIPLES OE SURGERY. yo6 mlnal parietes, but does so most frequently through the a|)crturos that naturally exist in them for the transmission of vessels. These cU*e the inguinal and femoral canals, and the imihilicus; and the hernial protrusions which occupy them are accordingly named In- guinal, Femoral, and Umbilical. Imjninal Hernia. The vessels of the testicle in the male, and the round ligament in the female, proceed through the parietes of the abdomen in an oblique passage about two inches and a half long. This passage, which is named the inguinal canal, being formed in the fisciaj and muscles that constitute the abdominal parietes in the hypogastric region, the connections of which have been variously described, and are still differently regarded, it seems necessary to enter into some anatomical details on the subject Before doing so, it may be proper to observe that the part of the abdomen, to be particu- larly considered at present, is that which lies below a line di-awn transversely between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium. Under the integuments and subcutaneous adipose tissue there is here an expansion of condensed cellular substance, constituting a membranous fascia, named fascia superjicialis, not very thick, but comparatively strong, and always very distinct. Beneath this lies a strong tendinous expansion usually named the tendon of the ob~ liquus extemus; but which, instead of being regarded as subordi- nate to one particular muscle, ought rather to be considered an in- dependent fibrous structure, like the fascia lumhorum, or the fascia lata of the thigh, since many other muscles are attached to it besides the external oblique. INIuch confusion would thus be avoid- ed ; and it might be called the tendinous fascia of the abdomen. Within this the recti muscles occupy the space on each side of the ijicsial plane, as far as a line running parallel wdth it upwards from the tuberosity of the pubis. The internal oblique and transverse muscles cover the remainder of the region under consideration, ex- cept a small triangular portion of it near the. pubis. On the inner side of this mxiscular layer, there is a fascia, which was first no- ticed and described by Sir A. Cooper. It is very thin, except at the lower part, and has been named the fascia transvcrsalis ; the })eritoneura comes next, and completes the formation of the ab- dominal parietes. The three fasciae that have been mentioned are united together at the line w'hich extends from the spinous process of the ilium to the pubis. They may all be traced distinctly down thus