162 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. But in order to retain the proper position after obtaining it by due relaxation of the muscles, and prevent the weight of the limb, the movements of the patient, and the sjiasms of the irritated muscles from causing dis])lacement, he recommended the use of splints long enough to extend beyond the joints at both extremities of the broken bone. The process by which reunion is accomplished can seldom be inspected before its completion, and experiments on the low'er ani- mals are not to be regarded as unexceptionable evidence; it has therefore been very variously explained, and still remains in some points rather uncertain. The following steps seem to be w'ell as- certained. In the first place, the parts which form the cavity that encloses the fractured extremities of the bone, together with more or less blood, become thickened and consolidated by the interstitial effusion and organization of Ijnnph. The medullary membrane undergoes a somewhat similar change, while the surface of the bone acquires a thin lining of gelatinous-looking lymph. The sort of shell or case which is thus formed by the indurated periostexim, muscles, fat, or wiiatever other tis- sue happens to be in the wuy, gradually be- comes firmer, and has ossific matter deposited in its substance, generally in small specks at many different points, but in largest masses where it is connected w ith the old bone, which is always where the periosteum still adheres to it; so that the portion of bone, from which the periostemn has been tom oflP at the time of the injury, is inclosed within the capsule. The broken extremities are thus by degi’ees joined together and rendered immoveable, but still remain unable to resist any considerable force w'hich tends to separate them. The ])rocess of ossification then proceeds inwards from all the surface, both of the old bone and of that newly formed. A gelatinous sort of mass, or some- times blood, fills the cavity that exists while this is going on, and when the cure is complet- ed, the bone, if divided, exposes a compact osse- ous mass, which in the course of time acquires ture, but has not the medullary canal jx;rfectly restored.