169 BONES. dent is consequently very obvious, and is still ffutlier indicated by the complete loss of power over the joint which attends it. When the fracture is longitudinal or comminuted, it .is distinguished by })ain, mobility of the fragments, and crepitus. Reunion of the transverse fracture is opposed by the following circumstances;—1. The tbfficulty of approximating the broken surfaces, and keeping them steady. 2. The presence of the fluid of the joint, which is secreted in increased quantity, owing to the irritation of the injury. 3. The want of vascular parts to afford a bed for the new bone. Osseous miion consequently seldom, or al- most never, takes place; and there is formed merely a sort of li- . gamentous connection, varying from a few lines to several inches in extent The treatment ought always to be' conducted, however, as if a complete cui’e were practicable, so that the flexible medium of connection may be rendered as small as possible. With this view, the limb ought to be laid out not only quite straight, but also somewhat elevated by a pillow, to relax the pelvic extremity of the rectus muscle. A single circidar turn of a roller being then ap- plied above, and another below the portions of the bone, the brok- en surfaees may be drawn very nearly into contact by tying two longitudinal bands introduced under the circular ones, alongside of the patella. A more effectual apparatus consists of two pieces of leather, three or four inches broad, and long enough to surround the limb above and below the patella; they are provided with straps and buckles for rendering them tight and drawing them to- gether, and their respective edges are cut out in front to receive the bone. Some discuticnt lotion to promote absorj)tion of the ef- fused fluid may be employed if necessary. When the fracture is longitudinal, little or no displacement oc- curs ; and all the treatment required consists of lateral compresses with a bandage. In this fractur’e the union is osseous, because most of the adverse circumstances wliich operate against bony union in the former case are absent. The thigh-bone, notwithstanding its great strength, is very fre- quently broken, sometimes by direct violence, but more commonly by the strain which happens in falling, pcmticularly on the side. In adults it usually gives way at the lower third,—in children at or above the middle,—and in old people at the neck. When the shaft is broken, the symptoms are those generally characteristic of fracture, and in particulai*, more or less shortening of the thigh, according to the degree of obliquity of the sui’faces of the bones.