PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. '234 vering, between the layers of which some cotton or other soft sub- stance may be placed. When siippuration ensues, free vent ought to be afforded to the matter. Stimulating washes should be applied to the sinuses, and moderate pressure still carefully continued, together with, if possi- ble, even more rigid abstinence from motion. If the patient’s strength proves inadequate to support the profuse and long-con- tinued discharge which is apt to result, he must be relieved by am- putation, or excision of the diseased bone. It might be thought that the diseased synovial membrane wmuld oppose the completion of a cure, even after the caidous bone was eradicated, but experience has proved this to be not the fact; and all trace of the morbid structure in question soon disappears during the suppuration which succeeds the operation. Ulceration of the Cartilages of the Joints. The cartilages wliich cover the sm’faces of articulation are often found to be destroyed more or less completely, becoming in some cases merely thinner than usual,—in some rough and irregularly abraded,—and in others detached fi’oin the bone, so as to lie in their natural situation, but nearly or altogether loose. These changes are ascribed to a process of absorption in the cartilages, commen- cing either on the surface of the synovial membrane which lines them, or in the substance of the cartilage. Ulceration of the ciir- tilages occurs at all ages; but is more common in adults than the disease which originates in thickening of the synovial membrane. It is met with both in persons of scrofulous constitutions, and in those subject to rheumatism, but chiefly in the latter. The excit- ing Cciuses are irritations of various kinds, both direct and indirect, such as strains, bruises, and exposure to cold. It is indicated by deep-seated gnawing pain, often referred to one particular point of the articulation, aggravated by motion, and felt most severely at night. The patient also generally complains of pain in the joint beyond the one affected, or in more distant parts of the limb, which is usually throughout its whole extent more or less weak, mdema- tous, and cold. There is little swelling in the first instance, and no gi’cat degree of it subsequently, unless thickening of the syno^ ial membrane be associated with abrasion of the cartilages, which is not unfrequently the case. When there is no swelling from this source, the enlargement that docs take place is confined to the im- mediate neighbourhood of the joint, and is of a more firm, xinyield-