PRINCIPLES OP SURGERY. 44 This new-formed .skin is named the Cicatrix; it is, of course, al- ways much smaller in extent than the original breach of continuity, and diminishes still further in the course of time. At first it is blue or purple, and very vascular, but afterwards it ceases to be so, and becomes dense, white, and bloodless, at the same time con- tracting still farther. Nature of the Granulating Action, It is generally believed that the granulations grow up above each other by the effusion and organization of lymph in successive layers, until the cavity is filled to the proper level. That then the thin pellicle on the surface begins to be tluckened and formed into skin at the circumference of the ulcer, wliile the granulations below shrink, owing to absorption of their constituent substance, and draw the edges of the breach together.* There can be no doubt, however, that this opinion rests on inaccurate observation, and is quite incorrect The subject w'as carefully investigated by the French Academy of Simgery ; and the essays of Louis, Fabre, Pibrac, &c. f le<ive hardly any thing to be desired for its elucida- tion. They showed that there is never any real reproduction of lost parts, with the exception of bone, wliich in some circumstances is regenerated. The skin also ought perhaps to be excepted; but the difference as to appearance and properties between the substance that constitutes a cicatrix, and the ordinary integument of the body, would rather lead us to regard this structure as a new formation. In all other cases it will be invariably foimd, that when the cure is completed there either remains a depression corresponding to the loss of substance, or such a contraction of the neighbouring parts as compensates for the want. The first step in the healing of an ulcer seems to be subsidence of the surrounding swelling if any exists; and then a gradual ema- ciation, cliiefly of the fatty, but also of the other tissues concerned, so as to render the skin more lax and easily drawm together. Hence it is that the cicatrix when first formed appears to be on a level with the neighbouring surface, though there may have been a loss of sub- stance to a considerable depth. After the cure is completed, the usual plumpness usually returns, and in such circumstances the cicatrix will ^ways be found deeply depressed. Ulcers being thus heal- ed by contraction, and not by any new production except what forms the cicatrix, the reason appears why their cure is accomplished • Sir A. Cooper’s Lectures, by Tyrrcl, Vol. i p. 160. t Mem. de I’Academie de Chirurgie, T. iv. and v. 4to ed.