106 PRINCirLES OF SURGERY. fills the wound almost as rapidly as it is wiped out, but ceases upon the ligature being tied, and probably depends upon the injury of a small branch happening to come off at the part. The edges of the wound should be brought together with a couple of stitches, and lightly dressed. After this operation, there is a greater difficulty to be encoun- tered, in the establishment of an adequate channel for the blood by the anastomosing branches, than occurs in most other cases. The perforating and external circumflex branches of the profunda pour their contents into those of the articular arteries, but these risincr from the popliteal portion of the vessel, which becomes obstructed by the coagulation that follows the operation, must transmit the blood into other branches communicating lower down with the un- impeded arteries of the leg. If it is wished to tie the femoral artery below the crossing of the sartorius, an incision should be made in the middle of the tliigh, commencing about tliree inches lower than where the one for the former operation terminates. The external or fibulai’ edge of the sartorius being exposed, shmdd be ch-awii inwards, when a strong tenilinous fascia passing from the vastus externus to the triceps will be brought into view; and Avhen it has been divided, the sheath will appear, containing the artery, vein, and nerve in the same re- lative situation as they were at the other part of their course. The operation should then be completed as already described. Though the ligatm-e of the femoral artery is not attended with much difficulty, it is frequently followed by bad consequences. It has long been my conviction that these depend upon the operation being . considered too easy, and therefore conducted witliout suflGicient at- tention being paid to the circumstiinccs above-mentioned, in regard to exposing the artery and avoiding the vein. In my own practice I have had occasion to tie the femoral artery nine times for aneu- rism, and never experienced any troublesome effects from the ope- ration. Ligature of the Arteries below the Knee. Aneurism hardly ever occurs below the knee from internal causes; but wounds not unfrequently occasion hemorrhage, which requires the arteries concerned to be tied. In such cases it is ne- cessary to secure the injured vessel not only above the aperture, but also below it, since the anastomosing branches would other- wise maintain the bleeding.