267 THROAT. to assist the entrance of the food into the stomach, since the whole of what is attempted to be swallowed will not pass through the breach, and it is not to be desired that the diet should, for some days at least, exceed the limits of extreme moderation. But if the aperture is large, so as to admit one or more fingers, it will he pru- dent to introduce a tube, such as a flexible catheter, into the oeso- phagus, to serve as a channel for the conveyance of fluid articles of nourishment, until the wound contracts sufficiently to render this unnecessary. The tube may be passed either by the nose or mouth, and also through the wound. ^\Tien pjissed by the nose it may be allowed to remain, and is not liable to displacement; but its intro- duction is extremely difficult, imless the surgeon takes advantage of the opening into the pharynx to direct the point of the instru- ment, wliich otherwise is apt to enter the rima glotiuUs, or engage itself in the lining membrane above the orifice of the oesophagus. When the tube, if judged necessary, has been introduced, and the hemorrhage is supj)ressed, the edges of the wound should be brought together by stitches, while the head is bent forwards, and retained in this position by a bandage or other means. The tube may be safely allowed to remain for several days; but if retained during the whole period of healing, which may extend over many weeks, the irritation produced by its pressime, though perhaps not much felt by the patient, is apt to occasion ulceration of the mucous membrane, \vith abscess, or even exfoliation of the cjir- tilages. . After the first week, therefore, nourishment should be afforded either by the power of deglutition still possessed, or by the temporary introduction of a tube into the oesophagus through the mouth. When there is a wound into the air-passage alone, a tube is not recpiired, unless the breach in the laa'ynx or trachea is so large as to make it desirable to prevent the action of swallowing, in order to guard against displacement of the edges of the Wound. If the preternatural aperture is allowed to remain open, the rima ghttidis has a tendency to contract, and even to close altogether. It may he possible when such ohliteration or straitening has occurred, to widen the passage sufficiently for the performance of its office hy introducing bougies from below upwards;* but such a procedure is extremely difficult and uncertain, and the necessity for having recourse to it should therefore be avoided, by carefully jiromoting early closure of the wound. * Liston, Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. xxLk. 1828-