474 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. which ought to be done by cutting upon the tumour so as to divide the connecting cellular substance, without endangering the neigh- bouring parts by carrying the knife parallel to the surface of the tumour. The arteries that require ligatures are to be tied, and if, as sometimes happens, a troublesome oozing of blood takes place from the glandular substance of the parotid, a piece of lint or sponge may be placed in the wound until it ceases. Tumours are occasionally met with under the tongue varying in size, and producing accordingly more or less inconvenience. Of these the most common is named Eanula. It consists of a sac con- taining fluid, which is usually thick and glairy like the white of eggs, but sometimes is watery, or of a pultaceous consistence, like that of porridge or boiled rice. Hardly any limits can be assign- ed to the extent of such formations, if allowed to increase without interference. The tongue is impeded in its movements—articula- tion and deglutition are rendered very difficult—the cavity of the mouth is completely occupied by the tumour—and it also appears under the chin. This swelling is generally attributed to distension of the submaxilhiry duct, owing to obstruction of its orifice, but really depends on the presence of an encysted tumour. The treat- ment it requires is excision of an oval piece of the cyst, together with the superjacent mucous membrane, which m.ay be easily ef- fected by means of a hook and knife or pair of curved scissors. The cavity suppurates and granulates, and if the lining membrane is very thick, or slow in taking on a proper action, it may be touch- ed with caustic. Fatty tumours occasionally gi’ow in the situation of ranula, and present characters so similar as to be distinguished from it with difficulty by external examination. The best way of deciding the question, is to make an incision, which, in the event of the swelling proving solid, may be extended suflBciently for its removal. The Lips afford subject of surgical treatment chiefly on ac- count of congenital malformations and cancerous ulceration. The former of these are usually comprehended under the title of Hare Lip. They consist in Assures of the upper lip, varying in extent and number, and either simple, or more or less complicated with malformation of the jaw and palate. The simplest form in wluch they are presented is that of a single fissure, extending from the edge of the lip to its connection with the giim, and generally seat- ed a little to one side of the mesial plane. In double hare-lip, there are two such fissures, with an intermediate portion of lip,