PRINCirLES OF SURGERY. 284 side of the cliest which has been injured. The treatment is simple and obvious, consisting In the application of a compress over the wounded part, to oppose the farther issue of air from the aivity of the pleura, and if necessary, in making punctures at different places, to discharge what is contained in the cellular substance,—but this should not be done unless the swelling is so great as to be produc- tive of much inconvenience, since, if left to itself, it will soon be removed by absorption. Accumulation and confinement of air in tlie cavity of the pleura, or ■pneumothorax, as it is called, though less obvious to sight than emphysema, is a more distressing and dfmgerous occurrence. It gi-adually distends the membrane in which it is enclosed,—presses ujKin the pericardium and sound lung,—and at length occupies so much of the thoracic cavity, as not to leave sufficient space for the lung of the sound side to perform its function. In this case, as has been already remarked, the air may enter either by an external Avound, which is of such a valvular kind as to allow its getting in when the chest is expanded during iusj)iration, but prevents its exit when the parietes of the cavity are drawn together during expira- tion ; or it may pass into the pleura by a wound of the lung which exists without an external one,—the wound of the lung itself hav- ing necessarily a valvidar effect, as the soft substance of the pulmo- nary tissue, though opposing no resistance to the escape of air from the small bronchial tubes, will prevent its return into them by col- lapsing round their cut orifices, when subjected to pressure during expiration. In either of the circumstances above-mentioned, every insjnration will tend to enlarge the quantity of air contained in the pleura, while the succeeding expiration has little or no effect in reducing in. The patient consequently feels great and increasing difficulty of breathing. The inspirations arc short, almost insbm- taneous, and end with a sort of catch. The expirations are labori- ous and ineffectual; and there is a distressing sensation of tightness across the breast; the pulse is small and irregular; the counte- nance is livid; and unless relief be afforded, death ensues. The symptoms of this*condition bear considerable resemblance to those of hemorrhage into the pleura,—but the resonance of the chest, which is absent in the latter case, and more than usually distinct in ])neumothorax, distinguishes the one from the other. If cm])hysema is present along with pneumothorax, scarifications should be made for the discharge of the air contained in the cellu- lar substance, which also afford exit to that accumulated in the