85 BLOOD-VESSELS. least after the extinction of sensation, they contract much beyond the limit determined by their elasticity, whenever they are freed from the distension of their contents. The internal coat is distin- guished by its thinness and smoothness; it is probably lubricated . by a secretion from its own sirnfacc,—and resembles the membranes which line the cavities of the body, whence it is named the Serous coat All of these coats are vascular, and capable of performing the actions, whether healthy or morbid, which are exercised by the nutritious system of other j)art^ but tlie internal one is most sub- ject to disease, and generally seems to be the source of alterations from the healthy sti’uctime, when they occur in the other consti- i tuent pai’ts of the vessel. The actions which take place in it most I frequently and readily, are effusion of lymph and diseased nutrition. I Effusion is induced as an immediate effect of various local irri- 1 tations, such as prcssm’c or wounds; on which circumshince are 1 founded the various methods of obstructing arteries, that have been ! proposed in the treatment of disease. It is ascertained, from ex- i periments made on dogs and horses, that, if an artery be subjected [' for some hours to the pressure of a tight bandage encircling the |1 limb, tlie canal of the vessel sometimes becomes impervioxis. This li effect results more surely when the’ sides of the artery itself are di- P rectly compressed; and Dr Jones discovered, that, when the inter- I nal and middle coats are divided, lymjjh is effused so copiously ij that obstruction fi’cquently ensues, though the constric- Ij tion be not continued after the division is effected. De- i. sault had ingeniously contrived to do this by tying the I' vessel tightly with a firm round ligature, wluch, making |i no impression on the tough external coat, but dividing |jl the soft yielding ones within, could be removed so as to t|l leave the former entire, and the latter completely cut I Various attempts have been made to obliterate the arte- ries of the human subject by these means. Assalini em- |i ployed little forceps, the blades of which could be ap- 1 proximated with regulated force by a screw passino- t through the handles. Mr Crampton made use of a |; pioce ot wood about three inches long, and having an ijjoval extremity, in which there were two holes, for receiv- M-j iing a narrow tape after it was drawn under the artery, |'‘when it was tightened by a screw in the handle. * JMr Travers • Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. vii. i