183 BONES. tliijj case, absorption may be almost always induced by using the means just mentioned; and, therefore, an opening of tlie aivity ought to be avoided. Should it take place, moist dressing, with occiisional blistei's, will be found the best means of ti’eatment. Indammation of the substance of the bone is attended with nearly the sjime symptoms. The pain is, if j)ossible, still more deep, dull, and ach- ing ; the integuments, though exhibiting the same changes in the progress of the disease, are not so much altered in the first instance; and the swel- ling affects the shape of the bone more extensively. It ocem’s at all ages, but chiefly in cliildhood and youth, and in persons whose constitutions are de- ranged in the same way that predisj)oses to peri- ostitis. In the fonner it is generally acute, and in the latter most frequently chronic. When acute, it generally terminates in death of the dense osseous tissue, and in suppuration of the spongy bone. When chronic, it expands the tex- tile of the shafts, so as to make them larger and less compact, and in the cancellated texture usu- ally induces cither absorption or suppuration. The trcfitment is to be conducted on the same principles tis that of periostitis. When the in- flammation is acute, it terminates very speedily in suppuration or death of the part affected, and seems to be hardly influenced by any remedial measure. But when chronic, it is more mider control, yielding in the dense bones to blisters, w'ith alterative medicines, and in the spongy boi cautery. The swellings which are occasioned, periostitis and inflammation of the bone itself, are m i I i employed along les to the actual both by chronic called Nodes. Necrosis. T he "expression Necrosis has been employed to denote different morbid affections of the osseous tissue, and has consequently given rise to much contusion. It literally implies the deprivation of lifi', and ought to be restricted to this meaning. All the bones are liable to necrosis, but those which possess a dense textm’e are more subject to it than the spongy ones. The causes of necios.s are various. It was formerly believed, that the