389 GENITAL ORGANS. weeks, a full sized bougie may be passed two or three times, a.s the irritation thus caused, though its first effect is to render the matter discharged more thick and copious, often puts a sudden stop to it The tincture of cantharides in the dose of twenty or thirty drops three times a-day, sulphate of zinc, given internally in the form of pill, and sea-bathing, are the remaining remedies usually had recourse to when the gleet proves obstinate. In cases of old standing, the application of a little diluted citrine ointment to the siu-face of the urethra, for the extent of an inch from the orifice, sometimes effects an almost immediate cure. The first gonorrhoea is generally much more severe than any that happen subsequently. In these the inflammatory symptoms are often from the commence- ment so mild that the means proper for ai’resting the discharge may be used without delay. It is in such cases that the cubeb pepper proves of the most conspicuous service, a desert spoonful of it given two or tlmee times a-day frequently cutting short the dis- ease. Of the bad consequences or attendants of gonorrhoea, one of the most constant is chordee or painful erection of the penis. The only effectual remedy of it is to cure the disease,—but before this is accomplished, the patient’s sufferings may be alleviated by opiate injections into the rectum,—the introduction of a grain of solid opium within the sphincter ani,—or pills of camphor with hyoscy- araus taken occasionally. If the spongy or cavernous substance of the penis remains hard after the inflammation has subsided, and causes pain, together with distortion of the member when it is erected, the part affected may be rubbed with camphorated mercu- rial ointment, to promote absorption of the condensing lymph that is effused. Inflamed absorbents are met with chiefly on the dorsal surface of the penis, and in persons of a very irritable constitution. They form hard painful cords, over which the skin is red. The best application that can be made to them is a warm solution of acetate of lead and opium. Inflammation of the inguinal glands, or Buho, does not occur nearly so frequently in consequence of the irritation of gonorrhoea, as of that proceeding from sores of the penis, and, therefore, may be more j)roperly considered in connection with them. Abscesses sometimes form in the cellular substance exterior to the urethra, at all j)arts of its extent, from the orifice back to the anus. So soon as they are recognized, an incision ought to be made for the evacuation of the matter, which, if permitted to make a way for itself, may cause ulcerative