77 DISEASED NUTRITION. to the situation of the disease, or the nature of the tissues affected, 4is may too frequently be seen in regard to the lungs and bones, a ciu'e is never accomplished. The disposition to scrofulous action exists most strongly in childliood, from two to fourteen years of age; but traces of its ef- fects are sometimes observed much earlier, and it would be difficult to prove that its operation does not occasionally continue in the most advanced age. The morbid tendency is chiefly inherited as a pecxdiarity of constitution, and is usually associated with light hair, blue eyes, a fine skin, and florid complexion; whence scro- fidous children often appear very healthy and thriving until they begin to suflPer from the eflPects of their peculiar disposition. The earliest external indications of its presence are, in general, swelling of the upper lip and columna nasi, with tumefaction of the edges of the eyelids. Many exceptions occur in wliich all these signs are wanting, and the patient, though of dark complexion, and ex- hibiting in other respects characters quite the reverse of those just mentioned, betrays the strongest tendency to the disease. The scrofulous diathesis or constitution is not always equally well marked in the parents and their offspring ; its effects at least are much mochfied by circumstances. Whatever has a weakening influence on the individual seems to increase the morbid tendency. Youth or sickliness of the parents—bad nursing—unwholesome or deficient food—and especially cold with moisture, may be particu- larly mentioned as causing or contributing to this effect; and some people have gone so far as to suppose that they may be sufficient to induce scrofulous action without any hereditary taint. Tliis is not fully made out, but there can be no doubt that though the ten- dency in the parents be strong, it may be weak in the children, provided the circumstances which have been mentioned are absent, and mce versa. Persons who possess a scrofulous constitution are generally more liable to other diseases, and suffer from them more severely than those whose systems are more healthy in their dispo- ; sition. It is usual to name all these affections scrofulous when j they occur in such circumstances, and hence great confusion con- I tinually arises. In order to avoid this, it will be better to restrict ! the use and signification of the term to those diseases which consist I in, or proceed directly from, the morbid depositions which have been described as the result of scrofulous action, j In the treatment of scrofula the first object should be to obviate , the circumstances which cherish the hereditary disposition. The