abdo:mex. 327 in infants, which merely presents the appearance of a tliimble-like protrusion from the umbilicus, it is not necessary to employ any means of treatment, as the parts soon assume a normal state through spontaneous contraction. In adults such simple measiu-es are not sufficient, and more powerful pressure is required. The best ap- paratus for the purpose consists of two broad circular cushions, one of which is placed on the back, and the other opposite the seat ot the hernia, which may be connected by a spring with any requisite degree of force. Additional security for this bandage can be rea- dily obtained, if found necessary, by means of straps passed under the perineum, or brought over the shoulders. Incarcerated and strangulated umbilical hernia should be treated on the same principles as those which have been explained. When the operation is judged requisite, a crucial incision should be made through the integuments, having the most prominent part of the tumom* for its centre, unless the hernia is very large, when it will be sufficient to make a simple incision two or three inches long, at the base of the swelling, directed towards the centre. The sac is to be exposed and opened in the same way that has been already described, and the stricture may be divided on any side, or, what is better, on several sides, so that no one is cut very extensively. The omentum is in this situation apt to cover the viscera, and ought to be carefully disengaged from them before being either cut away or reduced. Ventral Hernia. What has been said regarding umbilical hernia will apply m all respects to ventral hernia, with the exception, that a radical cure is impracticable, and that, as the disease is almost exclusively con- fined to adults, some powerful means of compression are always required. Protrusions of this kind are not common, and when they do occur, are generally situated in the linea alba near the umbilicus; but the records of surgery show, that they may take place in almost every part of the abdominal parietes. Hernia Dorsaiis, or through the Ischiatic Notch,—Hernia of the Foramen Ovale—and Hernia of the Perineum are so extremely rare, that it does not seem necessary to detail the particulars of the few cases in which they have been observed. In a case of perineal hernia that came under my notice, the patient, a mid- dle-aged female, made a narrow escape, from having the tumour