PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 466 (luring the period of childhood up to puberty, though relieved for a time by the remedies that are employed to remove it Stimu- lating ointments, such as those containing the red oxide of mer- cury, or the nitrate of mercury, are the best local applications, and should be rubbed along the margin of the inflamed eyelids at bed- time. Great attention ought to be bestowed on the maintenance, or restoration, of the various secretions, particularly those of the skin and intestinal canal, and counter-irritation by blistering the back of the neck, or introducing a seton into it, is often very ser- viceable. The upper eyelid, and also, though much more rarely, the lower one, is liable to inversion of the margin, which is named Entro- pium. This occurrence is usually in the first instance caused by the swelling attendant upon ophthalmia tarsi, and afterwards tends to its own increase, as well as obstinacy, by the irritation which proceeds from the friction of the eyelashes upon the eyeball, and also from the tarsal cartilage acquiring a correspondent curvature, which opposes the return of the eyelid into its proper position. Tumours of the eyelid, and sometimes mere relaxation of it, lead to the disease. It occasions constant uneasiness, and in conse- quence of this, chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva, nebula, arborescent red vessels, and ultimately complete opacity of the cornea, are sooner or later producecL The treatment is conducted with the view either of palliating or radically removing the disease. The former of these objects may be attained by pulling out the cilia from time to time, or applying straps of plaster, so as to maintain the eyelid in its proper place. As such means are very troublesome and inelFective, much atten- tion has been bestowed on the radical ciu’e, and various modes of procedure devised for its completion. The principle on wliich these are founded, is, to counteract the tendency to turn inwards, by removing a portion of the integuments of the eyelid, so as to tighten or tuck up its external edge. This may be done cither by cutting, or applying escharotics ; but the former method is unques- tionably preferable, since the latter, though recommended by some respectable authorities, is infinitely more painful, tedious, uncer- tain, and inefficient The redundant skin is cut away with scis- sors much more conveniently than with a knife. The requisite portion should be embraced between the blades of a pair of dres- sing forceps, and removed at one stroke. It should in general ex- tend from within a line of the edge of the eyelid, or roots of the