390 nilNCirLES OF SURGERY, absorption of the mucous membi’ane. When the iniUiunnation spreads back along the urethra to the bladder, it induces the pain- lul symptoms wliich have been described under the head of Reten- tion of urine from spasm, and irritable bladder, and requires the treatment that has been already explained in regard to them. In- flammation of the testicle is a common attendant of gonorrheea, but w'ill be more conveniently arranged along with the other mor- bid affections of that organ. Gonorrhoea Prejjutialis. A purulent-looking discharge is occasionally induced from the surface of the glans and prepuce in persons who have this cover- ing long, and the lining integument of its inner surface approxi- mating the nature of a mucous membrane. From the tightness of the prepuce in such cases, it is generally difficult to bring the orifice of the urethra into view, and the source of the running is, in consequence, often rcfen’cd erroneously to the usual seat of go- norrhoea. As this mistake leads to improper practice, the preputial disease requiring merely local applications, it ought to be avoided by carefully drawing back the fore-skin until the opening of the urethra comes into view, and then squeezing the penis so as to force out the matter, which will show by the direction whence it comes, where-it has been secreted. The absence of pain in mak- ing water affords another good ground of distinction between this form of the disease and the other. The treatment consists in in- jecting the black wash four or five times a-day between the glans and prepuce. hVarts. A very common consequence of go- norrhoea, particularly of the prepu- tial kind, is the growth of wai’ty excres- cences, chiefly round the neck of the glans, and by the side of the fi’oenum; but they may be seated on any or every j)art of the surface of the glans and ])re- puce. These growths vary extremely, both in size and number, being some- times hardly perceptible, and at others constituting large tumours. They have generally narrow necks, and irregular, rough bodies. They are painful and unseemly, apt to bleed