457 EYK. ill" organized, may cause jiermaiient obliteration of the pupil and adhesion of the iris to the capsule of the lens, or to the cornea. The lymph sometimes exudes in the form of distinct drops, which, when descending to the lower part of the anterior chamber, con- stitute what is called Hypopion. In the treatment of iritis, the ordinary means of depletion, &c. arc found to he insufficient for arresting the morbid process. The pain and fever may be thus diminished, but they are not removed; and the effusion of lymph proceeds as if no attempt had been made to control the disease. The grand remedy for it is mercury, given so as to affect the system, and if this be done early, while the usual measures for subduing inflammatory action are at the same time employed, and there is no local irritation present, there is almost a certainty of affording speedy and effectual relief. It is well ascer- biined that the constitutional action of mercury is the most power- ful obstacle to the effusion biking place, and exerts the strongest influence in promoting the absorption of lymph which has been thrown! out.* In the first instance, blood should be abstracted ge- nerally and locally, according to the violence of the symptoms; the bowels should be freely evacuated, and then two or three grains of calomel, with a quarter of a grain of opium, are to be given three times a-day, until the mouth is affected, when the quantity of the medicine may be diminished so as merely to keep up a moderate degree of jityalism. In the second stage of the disease, much be- nefit is often derived from rubbing the forehead and neighbourhood of the eye with a mixture of equal parts of mercurial ointment, opium, and the extract of belladonna. The disease sometimes oc- curs from the commencement in a chronic form, in which case, leeching and counter-irritation, by blistering on the back of the neck, ought to be conjoined with the mercury. The permanent effects of iritis improperly treated or neglected, which consist in obliteration of the pupil, sometimes admit of reme- dy by an operation. The object of it is to make a new aperture ill the iris sufficient for allowing the light required in vision to enter; and various methods have been contrived for its perform- ance. The most important of these are, 1. making a simple inci- sion in the closed iris by means of a needle with cutting edges, or a small knife introduced through the sclerotic at the distance of somewhat more than a line from the cornea, and carried forwards * Ur Fiirre and Mr Tnivcrs, Cooper and Travers, Surg. Essays, PiU't i' p. 97.