PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 200 extremity (Plate IX. Fig. 1). The substance composing such ex- cresences is of various solidity, being sometimes open and spongy, at others extremely dense and compact, and occasionally more like ivory than bone. The bones most frequently thus affected are the ; femur, tibia, lower-jaw, and distal phalanx of the great toe; but there is no bone in the body exempt fi-om it, though those of dense structure are certainly the most liable to it It may appear at any ' age, but, for the most part, does so about the time of puberty. The inconvenience which this sort of exostosis occasions depends very much upon its situation. Generally while the growth is en- larging, pain and annoyance are experienced from obstructed func- tion of the neighbouring parts; but when it ceases to increase and , becomes dense, which it usually does sooner or later, the irritation j of its presence becoming habitual, is no longer troublesome. The treatment, therefore, seldom requires to be active; and nothing more is usually requisite than to protect the limb, or part affected, from the irritation of motion or pressure, so long as the exostosis is enlarging. Should it prove permanently or seriously trouble- some, excision affords easy and ef- fectual means of relief. For this pimpose many ingenious contriv- ances have been recommended, but notliing answers so well as the cutting pliers, when the neck of the tumour is not very thick; and the common saw, when it is of too great breadth for being divided with the former instrument. It has been thought necessary to perform amputation of the great toe on account of the exostoses which are apt to grow at the side or extremity of the nail; but this pro- ceeding is equally severe and un- necessary, as excision of the tu- mour may be easily effected, and is not followed by relapse. The hollow exostosis depends on the ex]>ansive effect of fluid or solid formations within the bone, as in this very' remarkable case of which the preparation is in the