mixciPLEs or surgery. 182 House, on account of both tliigh bones having remained ununited, with great distortion, four months after being broken by a fall fi-om the mast head of a vessel. hiflammation of Bone. Inflammation of the periosteum, and that of the bone itself, fi-e- quently occin- together, give rise to similar symptoms, and require nearly the same treatment The former, or Periostitis, is charac- terized by deep-seated aching pain, redness of the integuments, which adhere to the part aflfected, and slight, diffused swelling. These symptoms vary much in the degree of their acuteness, and are accordingly accompanied with more or less constitutional de- rangement The disease frequently becomes periodically aggra- vated, and is apt to be increased by all sorts of excitement It is usually most severe during the night, and after meals. The peri- osteum is most liable to inflammation where it covers bones near the surface of the body, as the shin-bone, the skull-cap, the clavicle, and sternum. It is generally possible to trace the operation of a predisposing, as well as of an exciting, cause of the disease. The former seems to consist in derangement of the system from various circumstances, but most frequently fi’om the prejudicial use of mercury co-oj)orating with venereal disease, especially in a scrofulous constitution. The latter includes exposimc to cold and wet, and blows. Middle-aged adidts arc the most common subjects of its attack. The mode of treatment depends upon the intensity of the sjnnp- t )ms. When they are very violent, and attended with smart fever, the most etfectmil ])ractice is to make a free incision through the inflamed parts down to the bone. When less severe, no benefit is derived from this proceeding, but they yield to leeching or cup- ping, warm anodjme fomentations, cam})horated mercurial ointment with anodyne liniment, and opium administered internally along with calomel, ipccacuan, tartrate of antimony, or colchicnm. When still more chronic, they require repeated blistering, with an altera- tive course of the hydriodate of pobiss, or the oxymuriatc of mer- cury, six grains of the former, and half a grain of the latter being given daily m divided doses, and occasional small doses of the sjdinc cathartics. The decoction of siirsaparilla is generally ])re- scribed, but I believe without any IxmeficiM ctfect, farther than in- ducing the patient to conform to dietetic rule. The formation of matter is a very common consequence of chronic periostitis, but, in