31 HERNIA. Wlien the history of the case and the existing symptoms afford ground for believing that the sac has been reduced, to- gether with its strangulated contents, no time should be lost in affording relief For this purpose, a free incision having been made, so as to expose the spermatic cord, the operator in- troduces his finger through the external ring under the ten- dinous expansion of the external oblique muscle, and divides it directly upwards with a blunt-pointed bistoury, to the extent of an inch or more, if necessary, to bring the bottom of the sac into view. It generally then protrudes, and ad- mits of being treated as in ordinary cases of hernia. But, if it does not do so, even when the patient coughs, may be readily seized with forceps and drawn fairly into view. In the case above alluded to, where the strangulation had taken place within the abdomen, I found no difficulty in executing the pro- cess as just described, and with complete success. It is matter of much regret that this mode of relief has been adopted in a comparatively small proportion of the cases requiring it which have hitherto occurred, and in general at a period of the dis- ease so advanced as to preclude any chance of recovery. But the attention which has of late years been devoted to the sub- ject will, it is hoped, render the practice in future more satis- factory and creditable to the art of surgery. Division of the Stricture without opening the Sac. The late Mr. Aston Key and Mr. Luke of London have done much to revive and establish in practice an old proposal for lessening the risk of operations for hernia, by dividing the cause of constriction without opening the extension of peritoneum which constitutes the sac. Tlic advantage attributed to this proceckire is that which may be supposed to result from leaving the serous membrane entire, and in protecting it fi'om the risk of inflammation, while the disadvantages alleged to attend it are the dangers of wounding the intestine in dividing the stricture, the evils which may arise from reducing the strangulated parts in a state unfit for their admission, and the mischief which may arise from abortive efforts to effect reduction when it is im- peded by adhesion, or other change of the parts contained within the sac. On the whole, I feel satisfied that, as a general rule, it is better to open the sac, and that the procedure in