PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 285 wliich is a safer method than thrusting in a trocar. After the fluid has been evacuated, the aperture must either be closed, or kept open by means of a tube, accordingly as circumstances may require. Diseases of the Mamma. The !Mamma is liable to so many diseases, that it is necessary to make a classification of them. They may be divided into, 1. those in which there is merely derangement of its nutritive or sensitive action, causing simj)le enlargement, induration, and pain; 2. those in which there is a collection of purulent fluid; 3. those in which there is a morbid growth limited to the part in which it originates; and 4. those in which the growth is of a malignant kind, that is, tends to spread, ulcerate or fungate, and jiffect the patient’s constitution. The first of these divisions comprehends the painful indurations which aifect the breast at the time of puberty, and in the eaidy months of pregnancy—alsq a more chronic condition of the same kind, not unfrequently met with in middle-aged women—and last- ly, a painful state which is named the Irritable Breast The se- cond division includes the Acute or Milk Abscess, as it is usually called, and the Chronic Abscess. The third division embraces Vascular or Simple Sarcomatous, Fibrous, and Cystic Tumours —and the fourth, those of the Carcinomatous, and ^ledullary or Cerebriforra kinds. In both sexes about the time of puberty the breasts frequently be- come enlarged, hard, and painful, but soon return to their ordinary condition, and seldom require any treatment farther than the ap- plication of fomentations or some soothing lotion. The state of excitement, which attends the developement of the sexual organs, is apt to occasion great alarm, from being supposed to denote ma- lignant action of the parts, and there is reason to fear; has even led to excision of the gland. The same observations 'will apply to the painful and slightly swollen state of the breast which is observed at the commencement of pregnancy. Induration of the breast at a more advanced period of life, is a very common effect either of slight direct irritations, as blows or bruises, or of the indirect irrihition wdiich proceeds from suppres- sion or derangement of the natural secretions. Women about the middle period of life, particularly those who are not married, or who have no children, are most liable to this comphunt. It gene- rally affects both brcjists, but is sometimes limited to a lobe of one.