379 PELVIS. most unfavourable age seems to be about forty or fifty ; and it is always observed that when the health is vigorous^ and the suffering from the disease slight, the risk is much greater than when the pa- tient is reduced by continued and incessant pain, provided no or- ganic disease has been excited in any part of the system. Other methods of cutting for the stone have been proposed and followed more or less extensively ; but as the success attending any of them has not nearly approached that of the operation which luis been fully considered, it seems unnecessary to enter into a particu- lar detail of them, and the three following may be noticed shortly as the most deserving of attention. 1. The bilateral operation. 2. The high operation, or above the pubis. And 3. The recto- vesical operation. The first of these was contrived by M. Dupuytren in order to lessen the risk of injuring the rectum and pudic artery. The pe- culiarity of it consists in cutting the prostate on both sides equally, which is effected by an instrument constructed for the purpose, and composed of a sheath containing two blades, that can be made to project laterally more or less as may be required. This instru- ment, being conveyed into the bladder on the groove of the stall', after the preliminary incisions have been made in the perineum, in a transverse direction, is expanded and withdrawn in this state, cutting the gland to the requisite extent Many objections might be urged against this method, but it is sufficient to mention that the result of experience is not in its favour. The High operation is of older date, having been introduced about the close of the se- venteenth century, when it was discovered that the bladder could be cut with safety ; but the proper principles for operating in the lateral way had not yet been established. It was proposed consi- derably earlier than this, and had even been practised in some few cases, but did not engage much attention until the time mentioned. The mode of procediu-e was to make an incision in the linea alha, about three inches long, extending from the pubis upwards, sepa- rate the recti muscles, and open the anterior or pubic side of the bladder, beginning as near as possible to its neck, and continuing the wound upwards to a sufficient extent, with care to avoid cutting the peritoneum, where reflected on the fundus. The advantages contended for in recommendation of this operation were the faci- lity of its performance, even where the stone was of the largest size, —the safety of it in respect to hemorrhage, and the comparatively small degree of pain it occasioned the patient. The objection, ho\\ -