PRINCIPI-ES OF SURGERY. 238 teen, though it is not unfrequently met with both before and after this time of life. The first symptom complained of is generally ]iain of the knee, which often exists for months before any indic.a- tion can be perceived of the true seat of the disease. Sooner or later the patient is observed to walk awkwardly, and less \-igorous- ly than usual; and when the circumstances on which this difference depends are investigated, it appears that the affected limb is elon- i gated and emaciated—that the convexity of the hip is flattened, so 4 that the sulcus between it and the thigh is less distinct and more 1 oblique in its direction—and tliat in standing, the foot is advanced I a little with the toe slightly everted, and that the patient does not 1 rest his weight upon it. Pain is now felt in the hijj-joint itself, and 1 though aggravated by motion, often becomes more severe from time w to time without any such cause of irritation. It is most apt to do S so during the night, pai'ticularly when the weather is wet and 8 changeable. In this second stage, the disease remains generally I several months, and sometimes a year or two. At length the symp- 8 toms which have been mentioned either disappear^^nd the limb re- | covers its former condition, or they arc succeeded by others still w more disagreeable. In the latter case the limb becomes consider- ■ ably shorter than the sound one, its mobility at the same time being ■ much impaired or altogether destroyed, and permanent eversion or ■ inversion taking place. Collections of matter now generally make ■ their appearance, most frequently pointing on the outer side of the 8 thigh below the trochanter major, but occasionally in the groin or ■ hip, and issue externally through openings formed either by nice- ■ ration or artificially by the surgeon. The patient then, after a te- ■ dious illness, becomes hectic and dies; or recovers with a stiff an- | chylosed joint and a wasted useless limb. ■ Such being the insidious and destructive progress of the morbus I coxarius, it is evidently of much consequence to ascertain the na- ■ turc and most efficient treatment of the disease. As opportunities a of dissecting the parts in the first and second stages of the morbid ■ ]U’ocess very seldom occur, being confined to those cases in which ■ the patient dies of some other disease, the origin of the evil is still ■ involveil in considerable obscurity. Different authorities accord- i ino-ly refer it to thickening of the synovial membrane, idceration of I the cartilages, and inflammation of the bones. But though the se- I cond of these opinions be the one generally received in this conn- ^ try, there seems good reason for considering the one last-mentioned ^ as nearer the truth. The facts that have been collected by actual i 4