12 rUlNCIPLES OF SlTvGEKY. You may read or hear the symptoms of disease described over and over again, without being able really to know them, or to acquire the power of observing them. But you have here an opportunity of witnessing the actual existence of morbid de- rangements in the living body, with all the sensible characters by which they are distinguished. Surgical cases bear a small proportion to the subjects of ordinary medical treatment ; and it is, therefore, of pecidiar importance, that you should study them when brought together in large establishments such as this. In the course of the ensuing six months, most, if not all of you, will see more surgical cases than any one will have to treat in the whole duration of his private practice, however much it may be prolonged. Indeed, I have heard gentlemen of considerable standing and experience declare, that in once going round the AV’ards which are to be your field of study, they have seen more cases of surgery than all that had ever fallen under their treatment. But it must not be supposed that you are promised an opportunity of seeing an example of every case that may occur in the practice of surgery. This would plainly be quite impossible, and fortunately is not at all necessary, since each particular disease is not distinguished by characters exclusively belonging to it alone, but rather by cer- tain combinations of characters which it possesses in common with many others. If, therefore, you acquire the requisite familiarity with symptoms, whatever may be their source, you will be able to I’ecognise them, though difterently grouped, in connexion with other morbid derangements. The great duty imposed upon me as a teacher of clinical sur- gery will now also begin to appear. If left to “ walk the wards without assistance, you might be able to ascertain whether there were many operations or few, whether their perfoi mance was accomplished with ease or difficulty, and whethei the patients died or recovered. But as hospital attendance, pro- ductive only of such fruits, would be of little value in your preparation for practice, it has been deemed expedient that a teacher should be provided for rendering this opportunity of observation more conducive to improvement. In discharging the duty thus confided to me, instead of merely lecturing upon the cases, and telling what maybe learned from their examina- tion, I bring the patients before you, having them conveyed in a basket if not able to walk, and carefully point out every cir-