GENITAL OllGANS. 405 The apparatus required for the operation is a sinall troear, a moveable stop-cock fitted to it, and a syringe or cjvoutchouc bag, capable of containing three or four ounces of fluid, adaj)ted to the other extremity of the stop-cock. The trocar having been intro- duced as for the palliative cure, the cannula shoidd be jiressed in a little further, to insure its conveying the injection freely into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The fluid is then thrown in, not in sufficient quiintity to distend the sac, but merely so as to affect the whole surfkce, for which piirpose a few ounces are always cnoiigli. It is permitted to remain from five to seven minutes, unless the pa- tient complains much, when it may be withdrawn sooner ; and, if there should be reason for supposing that more than usual irrita- tion is requisite, the cavity, after being evacuated, ought to be again injected. Pain stretching uj) along the groin, towards the loins, and occasionally slight nausea, are in general experienced during the operation. After it is concluded the patient goes to bed, and seldom feels much inconvenience from what has been done until the following day, when the testicle swells, and more or less fluid is effused into the vaginal cavity. A slight degree of constitutional disturbance keeps pace with these loeal changes, and both are usually at their height on the tlijrd or fourth day. The swelling then begins to lessen, and the feverish state subsides; a discutient lotion is applied, and the patient is able in a few days to resume his ordinary occupation, though several weeks generally elapse before the swelling is completely dispersed. It is observed that the more solid the swelling consequent upon the operation is, the more speedy aud complete is the cure. The chief risk of failure in this operation is from the irritation proving insufficient, which source of disappointment may of course be easily obviated in a subsequent trial. Cases occasionally occur of an opposite kind, where, owing to extreme irritability, intense inflammation and sloughing ai’e induced. These effects are very distressing, and greatly prolong the cure, but they arc hardly, if ever, fatal, and would in all probability attend any of the other modes of treatment even more severely. The errors to be avoided are wounding the testicle, and injecting the fluid into the cellular tex- ture of the scrotum. The former of these has been already spoken of in regard to the palliative cure; and as to the latter, if the trocar is properly constructed with a closely fitting cannula, it can never happen except through an unusual degree of carelessness. The accident is recognized by the fluid remaining, or only escaping by drops when the stop-cock is turned. If allowed to continue in the