PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 120 Naevus is an enlargement of the venons capillaries, a])])arently confined to the surface of tlie cutis. There is little swelling, but very obvious discoloration, generally of a dark or puqde hue. There is no pulsation, hut targescence when the circulation is dis- turbed, especially by any circumstances which obstruct the passiige of the veins. The disease is most frequent in the heiid and trunk, but also appears on the extremities. It is always congenital; and when first observed is usually of very small extent, being merely a point or speck, which increases raj)idly after birth. After attain- ing a certain size it generally either remains stationary, disappears by absorption, or ulcerates and scabs away by degrees. The treatment ought to vary according to circiunstaiices. If thenm- vus is stationary, and not inconvenient, it ought not to he meddled with. If increasing, or so situated as to occasion deformity, it ought to be cut out or removed by ligature,—two or more threads being pas- sed under its base, as will be more particularly explained immedi- ately, and tied tightly so jis to effect complete strangulation. The a})plication of pressime and astringent w'ashes, and also local irrita- tion, such as that produced by vaccination, in order to cause ab- sorption or the idcerating and the scabbing process, are not only very rincertain and Ineffectual, but apt to leave unseendy marks, hai’dly less objectionable than that for the removal of which they are employed. The subcutanous neevus is a disease similar to the one last men- tioned, but more deeply seated. It exists either alone, or, more generally, along with the superficial nmvus; like which it seems to depend more iipon the veins than the arteries. It occurs in the same j)arts of the body, and is always congenital. At the time of birth it occasionally has attained a large size, and soon afterwai’ds be- gins to bleed ])rofusely. But much more trccjuently it increases slowly from a very small commencement, and may not prove trouble- some until a pretty advanced period of life. It is recognized by its bulk and extension under the skin, together with the negative cha- racter of wanting jmlstition. liike the su])erficial ua\us, it occasion- ally shrinks or ideerates away. When this tumour is seated on the fiice, is rapidly increasing, or threatens to bleed, it ought to be removed without delay, and, though excision may, in some cases, be })ractised with advantage, iis when the base is small, so that the wound required admits of healing by the first intention, in general, or rather nearly always, the ligature affords the most eligible means of removal, if the disease can be