PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 350 cumstance of persons in health not requiring to do so between tlie time of lying down and getting up. The patient also often com- plains of pain in coitu,—of a thin gleety discharge from the urethra, —of swelling and pain of one or both testicles,—of uneasiness about the loins and limbs, and of muscular weakness of the latter. He sometimes suffers feverish attacks of short duration, but considera- ble intensity, resembling in all respects the fits of an ague. It is observed, that the severity of all these symptoms increases when the patient is subjected to irritation, whether general or local, and di- minishes in opposite circumstances. A very distressing and not unfrequent consequence of stricture in the urethra is abscess, followed by fistula of the })erineum. The canal is always much dilated behind the contracted part, and some- times suffers perforation from ulcerative absorption, which allows the m*ine to enter the cellular substance, not suddenly but gi*adu- ally, and with a preceding effusion of lymph that limits the extent of its diffusion. The irrihition thus induced gives rise to inflam- mation and suppuration ; and the abscess which results opens sooner or later through the integuments of the perineum. Instead of be- ing formed by this process, the abscess is more frequently called into existence merely by the irritation resulting from the stricture, which excites inflammation and suppuration in the cellular sub- stance, or glands adjacent In either case the result is the same; and a sinus is formed, leading from the urethra, generally the mem- branous part of it, to the surface of the perineum. The urine, in a larger or smaller j)roportion, passes through this preterna- tural canal, the parietes of which, owdng to the continued irri- tation thus produced, become thick and hirndened, so as to re- semble cartilage. The urethra becomes more and. more con- tracted,—new abscesses are formed,—the number of sinuses is in- creased,—and at length the whole perineiim is perforated wdth openings, which discharge j)us mixed with urine, and the seminal fluid also if it happens to be ejected; while all the neighbouring parts are not only thickened and indurated, but almost constantly inflamed, and engaged in the formation of abscesses. The treatment of stricture has been conducted on various princi- ples, the different modes of practice founded upon which, and their relative advantages, it is not necessary to consider particularly, since one of them is decidedly preferable to the others. The me- thods referred to may be arranged under the three heads of Caus- tic, Licision, and Dilatation. Caustic has had the support of many