rniNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 408 veins, it will become more tense. Cirsocelc is met with cliiefly in young men between twenty and thirty, but frequently occurs soon after puberty, and also sometimes before it, when the diagnosis from inguinal hernia is apt to be extremely difficult. It exists in very various degrees of size, and occasions more or less inconvenience accortbngly. It does not seem to interfere with the functions of the testicle. The distended veins are liable to inflammation, which, extending to the cellular substance in the neighbourhood, occa- sionally leads to the formation of abscesses that leave very trouble- some sinuses. The circumstances, which determine the commencement of the disease, have not been ascertained. It is certainly more common in persons who have indulged in venereal excesses, but often exists quite unconnected with any such habits. It tends to increase to a certain extent, and then either remains stationary or diminishes. The patient is generally rendered very anxious by the complaint; but the small inconvenience which attends it, does not warrant any very severe measures for his relief. Washing witl) cold water completely removes the swelling for a time, by corrugating the scrotum, and bracing up the testicle to the pubis. A suspensory bandage effects this more pei’manently, though not so efficiently ; and an open state of the bowels, with rest in the horizontal posture, contributes to keep the disease within bounds. The means of ra- dical cure consist in extirpation of the testicle, which can hardly, if ever, be warrantable;—ligatiu'e or transfixion of the veins, which is dangerous and very uncertain;—and excision of the scrotum, except a portion of it sufficient to cover the testicles, but not to let them be pendulous. When the veins suffer from inflammation, a lotion of acetate of lead with opium, and uninterrupted rest in the horizontal posture, ought to be prescribed; and, if abscesses or sinuses should result, they must be treated on the general prin- ciples that have been explained. Chronic Enlargement of the Testicle. The testicle is very liable to simple enlargement, with harden- ing, which produces uneasiness from the bulk and weight attending it, and no doubt impairs the action of the gland; but is scldoni painful or very sensible of external impressions. It is generally irregular on the surface, and dense in its structure. The circum- stances which most frequently give rise to this condition arc at- tacks of inflammation, especially when repeated or badly treated,