THROAT. 277 sels are generally very much enliu-ged, in proportion to the size of the tumour, whence incisions into its substiince during life are at- tended with profuse hemorrhage. Sometimes the whole gland is equally enlarged, btit it generally exceeds on one side; and occa- sionally the swelling is entirely limited to the right or left lobe,— pai’ticulai’ly the latter. In this case the surgeon must be upon his guard against supposing that the disease is an aneurism of the ca- rotid ai’tery, or an independent tumour admitting of excision, which opinion he may be led to adopt by the seeming mobility of the growth, owing to the flexibility of its substance. Bronchocele is observed to abound chiefly in certain districts, wliich are mostly of a mountainous kind, where it is often associated with mental im- becility. The frc{}uency of bronchocele in such regions has not yet been satisfactorily explained. It has been attributed to the use of snow-water, the violent exertions required by the inhabitants in climbing precipitous paths, which, it has been alleged, must expose them to frequent venous congestion, and to the prevalence of a (lamp atmosphere, in the misty valleys and ravines, which lias been supposed likely to promote the growth of glandular swellings. In the countries where the disease is not endemic, it is almost entirely confined to females, generally commencing about middle age, and affecting chiefly the labouring classes. The symptoms of bronchocele are swelling in the situation of the thyroid gland, which follows the motions of the larynx during deglutition, and cannot be moved without a corresponding displace- ment of it. There is seldom much obstruction either of breathing or swallowing, owing to the resistance which is made by the carti- laginous stmeture of the air-passages, and the protection from pres- sure which the trachea aftbrds to the (Esophagus. Headache, how- ever, not unfrequently results from the obstruction which the blood meets with in returning from the head through the jugular veins; and the patient occasionally complains of more or less uneasiness in the tumour itself. But, for the most part, the principal incon- venience sustained depends simply upon the bulk and weight of the enlargement; and after attaining a certain size, it usually ceases to increase. The deep situation, muscular coverings, firm connections, and large blood-vessels of bronchocele forbid excision; and the at- tcm])ts which have been made with this view afford a sufficient warning against their repetition, by the fatal issue that has almost invariably, and often immediately, followed them. The ligature