100 PRINCIPLES or SURGERY. on whicli the bleeding caused by ligatures depends, and consequent- ly showed how it wtis to be avoided. The great source of danger was found to proceed from the ul- ceration which detaches the ligatiu-e going beyond due bounds ; and it was ascertained that the circumstances most conducive to tills, were extensive separation of the artery from its neighbouring connections, the interposition of much foreign matter between it and them, or the irregular puckering of the coats by flat or twisted liga- tures, also laceration and contusion of the neighbouring tissues, caused by exposing tbe vessel with the fingers or any blunt-pointed instrument, which prevented union by the first intention, and ex- cited inflammation. Such being the case, it naturally followed that the most efiectual method of preventing hemorrhage was to use a ligature small, firm, and round, to pass it round the artery with as little disturbance as possible to its connections, and to draw it tightly. It is to British surgeons, es]iecially IMessrs Jones, Hodg- son, Lawrence, and Travers, that the profession are chiefly indebted for establishing these principles, wiiich render the use of the liga- ture in the hands of a good operator equally easy and safe. To them, also, and more particularly to Cooper, Abernethy, and Liston, together with Drs Post and INIott in America, is to be ascribed the honour of leading the w'ay by tbeir bold and successful operations, resting on the sound foundation of correct patholog}', to the prac- tice of the present day in the treatment of aneimism, which contrasts remarkably, by its simpbeity and safety, with the comj)lexit}' and danger of the older methods. The ligature should consist of waxed stay silk, and may in every situation be passed round the artery by means of the simple needle represented, (Plate I. Fig. 3,) after the sheath of the vessel has been opened merely to an extent sufficient for the purpose. One ligatime only ought to bo employed, unless the operator unfortu- nately denudes the artery too far, when he w ill diminish the risk of hemorrhage by introducing tw'o threads, and tying them {is far apart from each other as the detachment of the vessel permits, after which he should divide the artery lietw'een them. I\lr Abernethy recommended this proceeding as projier on {ill occasions admitting of it, in order to take off the effect of tension, and jilace the li- gature as nearly as jiossible in the same situation with one appli- ed after amputation, where the chance of bleeding is known to be greatly less. Tlie difference of the two cases in all probability does not dcjiend on tension, while cutting the artery between the