PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 272 arrcstetl at the commencement of the oesophagus, just behind the ericoid cartilage,—since, this being the narrowest ]>art of the tube, if not impacted more or less firmly into its orifice, they are expelled ujjwards by the contractile iiction of the pharynx,—and if fairly introduced into the canal, they have their descent favoured by its increasing width. 'When again the foreign body is small and sharp-])ointed, as a pin, needle, or fish-bone, it is usually entangled about the arches of the palate or the neighbourhood of the ejnglot- tis, often stretching across the cavity. And should it be impeded partly by figure, partly by bulk,—in other words, should it be small enough to pass readily into the msophagus, if not prevented by its rigidity or angular form, the bottom of the pharynx and commencement of the oesophagus are the situations where it is ge- nerally found. In the case of a tough digestible mass impacted in the oesopha- gus, the usual method of affording relief is to push it down with a probang, i. e. a piece of whalebone with a s])onge or ball of ivory fastened to its extremity. The patient’s head should be held back, and the whalebone must be slightly curved to assist its taking the proper direction, which is farther promoted by holding the larynx forwards. Instead of tins method, I prefer extracting the ob- structing substance, which may in general be easily effected by means of the curved forceps represented in Plate IV. Fig. 1. If the foreign body is of a hard substance, which might occasion in- convenience if sw'allowed, and more especially if it possesses an angular form, which might render its more firm lodgement the consequence of force being employed to push it dowm, the safest course is to induce vomiting, in order to effect its ejectment uj)- wards. Where the passage was so completely obstructed as to pi'evcnt the swallowdng of an emetic for this purpose, a solution of tartrate of antimony has been successfully injected into the veins ; but all such means arc quite unnecessary, as irritation of the fauces by a feather or the point of a finger is sufiicient to induce the most violent expulsive efforts, emptying the stomach of its con- tents, which carry out the foreign body along wdth them. In re- moving pins, needles, and such sort of things, the best plan is to ascertain their situation by means of the finger, and then extract them with the curved forceps. Patients frequently apply for {is- sistance days or wrecks after sw'allowing some pointed body, which they believe still remains fixed in the throat. If nothing can be felt with the fingers, it is most probable that the patient’s feeling is decej)-