PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 314 j)roving necessary. The safest plan is to inject 10 or 12 grains infused in an English pint of water, and repeat this if it seems requisite. The bowels having been thus, if possible, unloaded, and the sj)as- modic tension of the abdominal muscles, which is caused by the irritation of the disease, and reacts injuriously upon it by tightening the fasciae which produce the stricture, having been subdued or di- ininishetl, the taxis is again to be tried. If a patient and cai’eful trial of it should fail, in the more favourable circumstances that now exist, the surgeon must think of removing the resistance by dividing the stricture with the knife. It is difficult to- determine how long the operation may be safely deferred, as inflammation and gangrene supervene much more quickly in some cases than in others. The best course is to operate so soon as a fair trial has been given without success to the taxis, and the measures which promote it, especially bleeding, and the warm bath if it can be })rocured. It should be recollected, 1. that the danger of the ope- ration itself is very inconsiderable; and that, consequently, the pa- tient should not, from fear of incurring it, be subjected to the greater risk, or rather almost certainty, of a fatal issue, which at- tends the disease when allowed to follow its own course. 2. That the progress of the bad consequences is usually rapid, in proportion as the hernia is small, recent, and tense. 3. That In small recent hernias there is least advantage to be expected from waiting. 4. That in large hernias, strangulated in consequence of congestion, there is most assistance to be looked for from the continued use of purgatives and injections. 5. That the operation is attended with least danger in cases where the tumour is small and recent; and with most where it is large and of old standing. When the operation is judged necessary, the patient should be brought to the edge of his bed, so as to present the groin in a fa- vourable position. His shoidders ought to be elevated a little, and the thigh of the affected side is to be slightly bent. The operator having shaved off the hairs, makes an incision about three inches long, in the direction of the inguinal canal, beginning rather above the commencement of the tumour, and continued down the middle or most projecting part of it, towards the bottom. This incision is most conveniently accomi)lished by lifting up a fold of the integu- ments, together with as much as j)ossiblc of the loose cellular tissue exterior to the tense parietes of the tumour, and running the knife through it with the back turned towards the sac. If the superficial epigastric, or any other artery of the integuments which may have