344. PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. one last-mentioned, the external orifice is generally large, and sur- rounded with thin flabby integuments. Retention of Urine. 1. Retention from deficiency in the expulsive power of the Bladder. The urinary bladder may be weakened in various ways, so as to effect the evacuation of its contents imperfectly, or not at all. Mere inordinate and long-continued distension, by over-stretching the mucular fibres, destroys, more or less completely and perma- nently, the contractility of the organ, and in a corresponding de- gree renders the patient unable to void his urine. AVlien the retention is complete, the bladder is distended until it contains se- veral pounds, and forms a large tumour, which may be seen and felt in the hypogastric region. The cellular and other tissues then resisting farther extension, the ureters and j)elvis of the kidneys are distended, after which the secretion of urine being opposed by the pressure of that already accumulated, the patient’s state re- mains without much alteration, until evacuation is effected artifi- cially, or takes place through ulcerative absorption of the coats of the bladder. In this state the patient suffers inexpressible dis- tress from a constant desire to empty his bladder, and from the incessant efforts, violent but abortive, which it induces him to make. Small quantities of water dribble away by drops from time to time, as the secretion slowly proceeds, but the tumour suffers no dimi- nution of size or tension. Exposure to cold or wet, and injuries of the spine, give rise to the same powerless condition of the blad- der ; and if there be any mechanical obstacle to excretion previous- ly existing, as from stricture of the vu-ethra, swelling of the pros- tate gland, or tumours pressing on the canal, or if the expulsive power of the bladder be weaker than usual, this effect is still more readily produced. In old age the bladder is apt to lose its tone, and expel the urine imperfectly. The patient observes that he makes water more frequently than before,—that he does so in smaller quantity at one time,—that the stream is not forcible, but small and dribbling,—and that he passes more or less of it during his sleep. It is the last symptom which generally first attracts no- tice, and leads to the more careful attention that detects the others. The obvious explanation of it is, that the bladder never being fully emptied, but merely having the excess expelled, w'hich its feeble power, aided by the compression of the abdominal mxisclcs, is able to command, and becoming distended beyond this extent during