PllINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 10 must, therefore, infer the operation of some other power in them than that of muscular contractility. But this is unnecessary, as there are some vessels in the system which beyond all dispute pos- sess such a power. The vessels of the foetus, and those which absorb the chyle, can perform their office only by exerting an at- tractive force on the fluids exterior to them, similar to what must be exercised by the roots of vegetables. And if we 'admit the operation of such a power in some parts of the vascuhu* system, we may not imreasonahly suppose it to exist wherever similar ef- fects are produced- The absorbing property, which is now ac- knowledged to belong to the veins, can hardly be explained in any other w'ay:—and then we have only to go a single step farther to grant it to the venous capillaries, which communicate with those of the arteries. Vacca seems to have perceived the necessity of attributing an attractive power to the capillary vessels, if we may judge from the following passage of his work above quoted : “ Ergo vis sanguinis, quae canales sanguineos distrahere, et dlstendere nititur, contra eadem oscula, quoque agit, ips«ique aperire tentat, Verum oscula ilia in salubri corporis statu vigore eidem impetui proportionali semper resistunt, et idcLrco tarn angusta conservantur, ut ipsa in- gredi minime possit nisi conveniens secernendus liquor non ex me- chanica impellanti vi, sed cx attractioids virtute."* To which he adds the following note,—“ Attractiouis leges inter terrestrium corporum materias nondum detectae sunt; attractionis vero exis- tentia evidentissime est demonstrata.” Vacca had the more merit for forming and thus confidently expressing this opinion, as the curious discovery of Reuss of Moscow, which has been so much extended by M. Dutrochet, that galvanism, a power resembling the nervous energy in many other respects, exercises a locomo- tive effect on fluids, was not made till long after the time he wrote.f If we allow that the motion of the blood through the cajullaries is influenced by the vihil ])ower of the vessels, the explaniition of all the symptoms of inflammation becomes ecjually easy and obvious. It has already been found necessary to suppose that there is a dis- turlwince of the nervous energy, in order to account for the various alterations of vital action; and the Scune power, which is thus dis- * Op. cit. p. 20. t Reuss de Electricitatis voltana; potestate bydragoga—Moscow Transactions, Vol. ii. p. 307. De viribus snnguinein inoventibiis, ib. p. 327—Dutrochet sur I'a- gent iinmediat du mouveraent vital, 1826.