313 ABDOMEN. diminished, the reduction, in general, may be very soon completed. The larger the hernia is, the more may he expected from this ma- nipulation, and vice versa. There is almost always some serous elFusion into the cavity of the sac, and in small tumours, especially those of recent production with acute symptoms, the bulk of the fluid bears a large proportion to that of the intestine or omentum. External pressure, consequently, however carefully employed, can- not possibly have its effect confined to the neck or any other por- tion of the strangulated parts, since, through the medium of the fluid, its force must be diffused over the whole surface, and there- fore imge the entire mass against the narrow aperture by which it is required to return. While circumstances are thus opposed to the beneficial influence of pressiu’c from without, it is obvious that the small size of the protrusion, which is often not larger than the point of the finger, and seldom exceeds that of a walnut in most cases, will afford little resistance to an eflPect in the opposite direc- tion. It accordingly often happens that after the Taxis has failed, the tumour suddenly and, as it seems, spontaneously disappears, no doubt through the operation of some internal change in the condi- tion of the bowels or omentum. Such being the case, in the event of the Taxis failing, it is ob- viously proper to use means that may produce some effect of the kind requisite for mthdraming the protruded parts into the abdo- minal cavity. Of these may be mentioned a change of posture, by elevating the pelvis and bending the shoulders backwards, in order to make a drag on the strangulated viscera—the administration of enemata to evacuate the intestines, and thus lessen the resistance to return—bleeding largely to diminish the contractile tone of the muscidar fibres—using the warm bath with the same view—and in addition to it also employing opium or tobacco. The a])plication of cold externally, and the internal use of tartrate of antimony, or purgatives, are means occasionally resorted to, but with more ques- tionable advantage. The choice of means for the purpose of promoting reduction must be determined by the circumshuices of the case. When the patient is strong or plethoric, it will always be right, in the first instance, to abstract a considerable quantity of blood. Repeated injections, or the warm bath, if it can be procured, should also be constantly employed. In regard to tobacco it is necessary to be cautious, lest too great depression be induced by its use, so as to render tlie patient unable to bear an operation in the event of this measure