THROAT. 275 sing sensation, and the dread of exciting it, the patient’s counte- nance acquires a very characteristic expression of anxiety ; wliich, together with the emaciation that results from deficient supply of noimishment, is almost sufficient to betray the nature of the case to an experienced practitioner. It may be added, that the voice is pecidiar ; sounding as if the person spoke with a foreign body in his throat; that there is no swelling to be perceived by external examination ; and that, though there is frequent sjiitting of saliva, no blood is discharged. But the only method of positively ascer- taining the existence, seat, and degi'ee of stricture, is to introduce a succession of bougies-, gradually decreased in size from that which ought to enter the oesophagus readily, if it were sound, down to that which the constriction is capable of admitting. The treatment of this kind of stricture has been conducted on two principles:—one of them being to apply caustic, mth the view of destroying the thickened or contracted part of the membrane ; and the other to produce a gradual dilatation of it by means of bougies. The former of these methods, though supported by the strong recommendation of Sir E. Home and other authorities, la- bours under the objection of being painful, difficult, and attended with great danger of injury to the neighbouring parts; while the latter is not only in a great measure free from these defects, but proves much more speedy in its operation. The bougies may he constructed either of elastic gum or of steel. If of the second kind they ought to be a little curved, and have their extremity made slightly bulbous, as this enables the operator to feel more distinctly when it has passed the stricture. The effect of bougies in remov- ing strictures of mucous canals is not, as was formerly supposed, merely mechanical. This no doubt is the first effect; but another very important one follows, which is the action of absorption, in- duced by the pressure of the instrument The organizable matter effused into the coats of the giillet, causing their contraction and thickening, is thus gradually removed. But if the bougies be passed with undue force, or too frequently, or be retained too long, the ef- fect, instead of being absorption, is apt to be effusion, the conse- quence of which is an aggravation of the disease. ^ Tlie bougies, therefore, should be immediately withdrawn after being passed through the stricture; and the operation ought not to be repeated until the irritation of the previous one has entirely subsided, wdiich usually requires an interval of two or three days. Great care must be tciken to avoid making a false passage for the instrument, which.