88 PllINCiri.ES OF SURGERV. to be warmly clothed, but guardetl against external heat, and all other stimulants. Should mortification ensue, amputiition ought U> be performed above the obstruction, unless a line of demarcation aj)pears lower. Diseased nutrition of the internal coat is a very common occur- rence, especially in advanced age, and unsound constitutions. The consequence of it is a deposition either of a soft pultiiceous sub- stance, which is named its atheromatous degeneration, or of calca- reous sciiles, which constitute what is called ossification of the ar- tery. In both cases this morbid change affects principally the inner coat, a slender film on the surface of which remains as a lin- ing to the vessel. The two diseased alterations generally exist to- gether, in variable proportion. They affect most frequently the aorta, and arteries of the inferior extremities. They seldom take place extensively before the age of sixty; but are then so common, that they might almost be regarded as natural occurrences. Males are more subject to them than females. When an artery becomes ossified it usually dilates, and thus transmits the blood more readily than might be expected from the thickening which it suffers; but still, owing to the rigidity of the tid)e, or some other cause, it does not seem to do so with the same freedom as in the natural shite; and the patient complains of weakness, pain, and other uncomfort- able sensations, with more or less emaciation in the part of the biwly where the vessel is distributed. The mortification described by INIr Pott, which sometimes attacks the toes and feet of old men, has been ascribed to ossification of the arteries, but not very satisfactorily; since, if this cause were sufficient for its production, it ought to be much more frequent than it actually is. In the cases I have had an opportunity of dissecting, the arteries were not only ossified, but completely obstructed with a dense coagulum; and perhaps the weakened limb may be finally destroyed by the altered surface of its vessels causing coagulation of their contents. JVounds of Arteries. When an artery is wounded, the blood issues from it with great force in a stream, which is either continuous, or varied by succes- sive pulsatory jets, according to the size of the vessel, and the aper- ture made in its coats. Unless the artery concerned be very hu*ge, or jiarticularly circumstanced, as will be explained hereafter, in which cases the hemorrhage does not cease until the individual h;us suffered a fatal depiction,—the flow of blood gradually diminishe.«, u