PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 378 the cellular substance at the neck of the bladder is found infiltrated with pus, and the prostate gland also contains purulent collections. The circumstances that seem to have most effect in giving rise to this insidious and deadly process, are laceration and contusion in- flicted during the removal of the stone, especially if it is of large size, and the prostate is previously in a diseased state of enlarge- ment. Little can be done to arrest the inflammation when once excited,—but the means that promise most assistance in doing so are frequent immersion of the pelvis in a liip-bath, opiate injections, and moderate depletion. Peritonitis very seldom follows the lateral operation of litho- tomy, but if it should occur, it will appear witliin twenty-four or forty-eight hoims at farthest, and may be recognized by the ten- derness of the abdomen to pressure, the small wiry pulse, and ca- daverous appearance of the patient Free depletion, both local and general, warm fomentations, and the warm bath, will be the proper remedies. A communication between the rectum and wound occasions in the first instance little inconvenience; but as the cure advances, and the orifice of the wound contracts, the contents of the gut, whether gtiseous or liquid, instead of escaping through it, are forced into the urethra, and issue from the penis, while part of the urine descends into the rectum. The remedy for this disagreeable oc- currence is to divide the septum that lies between the external ori- fice of the wound and its communication with the gut: but this should not be done immediately after the operation, as it has often happened that the wound of the intestine occasioned no trouble, and healed by the first intention. When the various obstacles to success that have been mentioned, together with the adverse influence of disease in the kidney, which is sometimes associated with stone in the bladder, and also the chui- gerous consequences common to all severe operations are taken into account, it will aj)pear obvious, that, however perfect the prin- ciples on which the operation is performed, and skilful its execution, the patient’s recovery cannot be regarded as by any me<ins certain. A succession of fortunate cases often leads an operator to flatter himself with a belief of his own infallibility, but sooner or later he meets with reverses; and it appeal's that the average of successful j)ractice is one death in from seven to ton cases. The period of life at which the operation proves most successful is between the second and fifteenth years, and next to this from sixty to seventy. The