368 PlllNCIPLES OF SUROERY. metallic instruments variously formed. The one that will generally be found most convenient is a steel bougie of the size usually rated No. 3. or 4. It should be moved about methodically into every part of the bladder, while the patient lies reclining. If the point grazes against the rugm of a thickened muscular coat, an inexperi- enced simgeon may be misled into supposing that there is a stone ; but if it really encounters one, there will hai’dly be a possibility of misinterpreting the cbstinct sensation which is always felt, and the corresponding sound generally heard at the sJime time. A small stone may escape detection, from the bladder being too much dis- tended or too much collapsed; and when either of these sources of fallacy is suspected, a catheter should be Introduced to draw off the water, or convey in a sufficient quantity from a syringe or elastic bag. If the parts about the neck of the bladder are very irritable, and grasp the sounding instrument tightly, soothing measures, such as gentle evacuation of the bowels by ciistor-oil, opiate injec- tions into the rectum, and the warm-bath, ought to be employed. AVhen the prostate has suffered enlargement, a sort of pouch is ge- nerally formed behind it, in which the stone may lie so as to be hardly tangible by the sound, unless placed more within its reach, by altering the position of the patient, or elevating the bladder by a finger introduced into the rectum. The treatment of stone in the bladder may be divided into pal- liative and radical. The former consists in the use of means which tend to prevent the concretion from increasing, and to alleviate the patient’s sufferings; the latter, by removing the calculus, affords effectual relief from all the uneasiness of the disease. The means used with a palliative view are such as may be ex- pected to correct derangement of the mrinary secretion, and thus not only remove that excess of acid, or saline constituents, which is essential for the occurrence of concretion, but also diminish the severity of the symptoms resulting from the calculus actually ex- isting, since these, as has been already observed, ahvays corresj)ond directly in their severity with the degree to which the secretion of urine is morbidly altered. In order to determine what remedies oimht to be prescribed for tins puq)ose, the imine of the patient must be Qxamined. If it shows the characters which denote an excess of acid, alkaline medicines will be indicated. Of these the earl)onates of soda and potash arc the best, and may l>c admini- stered in the dose of a scruple or half a drachm, two or three times a-day, dissolved in a tumbler of water. Should the patient siiffer