PRINCin.KS OF SURGERV. 14 the cause of sytu])athy is at present, and probably ever will l)e, be- yond the reach of human understanding, the facts which are gene- rally observed in regard to its manifestations are fair subjects of in- quiry, and of the utmost importiince in practice. Of these, the six following, or what may he called the laws of sympathetic action, deserve especial attention. 1, Disturbance of action in one part, occasions distvu-bance in others. In a healthy state of the sj'stem, all the organs perform certain actions with a certain degree of .vigour, and whenever any one of them has its activity either excited or diminished, more or less change ensues in the action of others, which may thus become dis- ordered in whole or in part. The effect of excited action in caus- ing sympathetic derangement is well known, as in the common case of fever attemling inflammation; but the consequences of di- minished action are more apt to be overlooked, though not less fre- quent, or less productive of serious disease. The most extensive and frequent derangement which occurs in this way proceeds from interruption of the mucous secretion of the intestinal canal. All attentive practitioners have remarked, th?it, when the bowels become costive, various tliseases are apt to break out in distant parts of the body. This has been attributed to irritation caused by reten- tion of the faeces, and to the effect of an inflamed state of the lining membrane of the bowels, * but it may be more correctly referred to interruption of the usual secretion.f Next in order as a source of derangement, from diminution of usual action, ought to be reckon- ed the skin. The effects of checked perspiration, or mere dulling of the skin, in occasioning general fever and local inflammation, are constantly presented to our attention. "SVlienever an accustomed .secretion or action, of any kind is .sup- pressed, though there may not ensue indications of actual distur- bance, there is always a strong disposition to it; and therefore all operations, even of the most trivial kind, ought to be abstained from in such circumstances, as the direct irritation proceeding from them, together with the indirect inducement to derangement already pre- sent, might probably occasion violent local and general disorder. 2. A diseased action may, from long continuance, become as it were adopted by the system, so as to occasion distimbauce by its siippression. • Dr Hamilton on Purgative Medicines. t Abemethy on the Constitutional Origin of Local Diseases.