rilINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 486 Tumours of the Gums a?id Jatcs, Excrescences of a firm substance, irregular surface, and usually whitish colour, are not unfrcquently met with proceeding from the gums. If allowed to pursue their own course, they increase in size, loosen the teeth in their neighbom-hood, and at length taking on a malignant action, prove fatal to the patient by causing he- morrhage, profuse discharge of matter, or excessive and long-con- tinued pain. These gi'owths, when small and within reach, ought to be freely cut away, and the actual cautery or caustic potass, should then be applied, so as to destroy, if possible, any tendency to their reproduction that may remain in the part. If the tumour extends to the alveolar processes, the adjacent teeth must be ex- tracted, and the excision will require the assistance of cutting for- ceps. In such cases the prognosis, as to the permanency of reco- very, should be cautious, as attempts to eradicate the disease by removing the affected part alone arc apt to be unavailing. Both the upper and the lower jaws are liable to morbid degene- ration of structm'e, giving rise to medullary and fibro-cartilaginous tumours. The former occurs more frequently in the upper than the lower, and generally extends to the bones of the nose and or- bit ; the latter is more common in the lower jaw in a still gi'eater proportion. The medullary growth, as in other parts of the sys- tem, is attended with severe pain, an unhealthy appearance, and in its more advanced stage, profuse fetid tlischarge or hemorrhage. The fibro-cartilaginous production, though sometimes in the first instance the scat of uneasy sensations, usually produces no incon- venience except by its bulk, to which no limits can be set At length occasional bleeding takes j)lace from the surface, but this seldom happens until the tumour has existed for years, and attained a very large size. There is never any purulent or fetid matter discharged, and the substance of the mass remains as dense and entire as at the commencement of its formation. This kind of growth is usually met with in young persons between puberty and middle ago. The only method of relieving the patient from these tumours, whether of the one kind or the other, is complete excision. This used to be attempted by cutting out with saws, forceps, and chisels, the diseased mass alone, the adjacent part of the jaw being allow- ed to remain. Such operations, with hardly any exception, proved ineffectual in accomplisliing a radical cure, {is the smallest portion of bone possessing the morbid disjiosition, that was not eradicated.