PlUNCirLES OF SURGERY. 124 the glands and absorbents. AVlien these local symptoms are at all acute, they are accompanied with more or less fever, which is dis- tinguished by what is called the typhoid type or character, indica- tive of extreme irritation, whence it is also usually named Irritative Fever. The pulse is quick and small; the respiration hurried and anxious; the countenance dark, contracted, and expressive of much distress; the tongue dry and browm. There is great prostration of strength, and often, especially in the progress of the disorder, delirium. Acute inflammation of the veins, and more especially those of large size, almost always j)roves fatal. Death may ensue in a very few days, but seldom before the end of a week. On dis- section the vein is found thickened in its coats, and containing coa- gulated blood, or pus, or a mixture of both. There are also very generally purulent eflFusions, in the ca\dties of the chest, those of the joints, or in the subcutaneous cellular texture, together w'ith depo- sits in the substance of the lungs, very similar in appearance to tubercles. The explanation of these eftects has not yet been well made out, but, on the whole, their cause seems most probably to be the violence of the constitutional cbsturliance ; though the opinion most generally received at present is, that the pus suffers absorption into the mass of circulating fluid, and thus produces the effects in question. In proportion as the inflammation is chronic, the danger is small. The local eflPects are, in the first instance, redness and thickening of the vessel, then suppimition into the cavity, or the eflPusion of lym})h, which, together with coagulation of the blood, just as hap- pens in the arteries in similar circumstances, impedes the circula- tion, and obliterates the channels affected. The veins are induced to take on the adhesive action by compression, and the other kinds of irritation which occasion it in the arteries, but they are much more readily excited by these means to inflame. The atheroma- tous and calcareous degenerations occur so rarely- in their coats, that they may almost be siiid never to affect them. The causes which have most effect, and are most frequently concerned in the j)roduction of inflammation in the veins, may be referred to three heads : 1. The application of a ligatime. 2. Immoderate or long-continued distension. 3. The infliction of wounds which do not heal by tbe first inten- tion. John Hunter, who had the merit of directing attention to the causes and important consctpicnccs of venous inflammation, when