BRA IX. 423 gives rise to these symptoms, and which, if permitted to go on, may occasion thickening of the membranes, or disorganization of the brain, attended with epilepsy, fatuity, and ultimately with death. It ap})ear3 that the dura and pia mater may also suffer from con- cussion, since they sometimes inflame, and produce peculiar symp- toms in cases where the head has been subjected to violence, that can act only in this way. Blows which expose the bone are the most common sources of such effects, and frequently give rise to them, though of inconsiderable violence. The patient, after a lit- tle confusion or stupor, may feel quite well, and follow his ordi- nary pursuits for several days, at the end of which, generally from the seventh to the eleventh, he begins to feel some indication of the disease that is going on within his head. The pulse becomes frequent and wiry; his tongue is furred ; his countenance anxious; his sleep broken; and he feels a general uneasiness, with indis- j)osition for all active exertion, whether of body or mind. Ilead- ach, with intolerance of light and noise, then succeeds, with oc- casional rigors; but delirium and convulsions are more slow of a})- pcaring, than when the cerebral substance is the seat of inflamma- tion. At length these symptoms present themselves, and are speedily followed by insensibility, involuntary discharges from the bowels, and death. On dissection, an effusion of pus is general- ly found occu])yiug a more or less extensive portion of the surface of the dura mater, which is sepai’ated from the bone and altered both in colour and consistence, or of the subjacent pia muter and substance of the brain. As the approach of this disorder is slow and insidious, while the means of checking it can be used with ef- fect ordy in the commencement of its progress, all injuries of the head that can possibly give rise to it ought to be treated with care. The patient should for weeks abstain from every kind of ex- citement, and endeavour to preserve his secretions in the most healthy state. Quickness of the pulse, and headach, suggest free venesection, with the internal administration of tartrate of anti- mony, either alone, or combined with the saline cathartics. If re- })eated rigors succeed signs of inflammation, and esi)ecially if the patient becomes insensible, it may be presumed that pus has been effused; and the only chance of his recovery is afforded by per- forating the cranium, so as to give the matter free vent, if it is lodged between the bone and the dura mater. If not found there it may exist deeper, but incisions in search of it woidd be quite un- warrantable. Puffiness of the scalp, and a glassy dry appearance