PRINCIPLES OE SI RGF.llY. 228 surfaces. The consequences of inflammation are serious in projxtr- tion to the severity of the attack, and the unsoundness of the j>a- tient’s constitution; but it ought always to be dreaded, and indu- ced, if possible, to terminate in resolution, A\Tien the symptoms are acute, blood should be freely abstracted locally by leeches or cupping; and if there is much strength of action in the system, general bleeding must also be practised. Calomel and opium are very useful where there is much irritabili- ty ; and the tartrate of antimony given in frequently repeated doses, is on all occasions a most valuable remedy; not only by allaying violent action, but also by jiromoting the secretions of the skin and mucous membranes. AVhen the inflammation is subacute, warm fomentations, anodyne liniments, such as the tincture of soap and opium, with the internal use of diaphoretic medicines, as Dover s powder, calomel and opium, or vinum colchici, afford most relief. In its chronic state, counter-irritation effected by stimulating lini- ments, blisters, tartrate of antimony, setons, and issues, especially those made by the actual cautery, with perfect rest, and a moderate degree of pressure, are the means which deserve most confidence. In preventing motion, and effecting the conq)ression deemed requi- site, the best means certainly consist in the application of leather splints. Pieces of bend-leather, cut to the proper size, having been moistened and placed on each side of the joint, are closely moulded to its form by the pressure of a common roller. When dry and rigid they are taken oft’ and lined with some thinner and softer leather; after which they are again bandaged on, and employed so long as may be necessary. In cases where the knee is severely affected, it is very important to prevent motion of the ankle-joint also, and for this purpose I find nothing so useful as a splint of iron wire covered with chamois leather. Dropsy of the Joints. The synovial membranes of the joints, though all similar to each other, and resembling in structure as well fis function the serous coverings of the soft parts, arc not equally sidyect to dropsical ef- fusion. It is extremely common in that of the knee, but very rare in all the others. Dropsy of the knee-joint is occasioned by a great vimietj- of cir- cumstances. It occurs most frequently in persons of weak and irritable constitutions; who often suffer from it in consi'quence of ■\ cry slight direct irritations, such as twists and bruises, or the in-