PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 202 ly under the periosteum, aud causes an excavation in tlie surface of the hone, around wliich more or less osseous matter is effused; at other times it begins in the interior, springing apparently from the medullary membrane, and then expands the bone into a shell, or by inducing absorption, causes a perforation, through which it issues and s\vells into* an external tumour, or it opens out the bone into beautifixl needles or plate-like processes radiating from the central seat of the disease; or lastly, it may simply occupy the place of the bone. But, whatever may be the diversity in this re- spect, the morbid degeneration always exhibits its characteristic features. There is usually great pain from the first, and often for a long while before any external swelling is visible. The patient loses flesh, and indicates, by his anxious expression of countenance, the presence of a malignant disease. The tumour, though at first seldom so soft as when originating in the less dense tissues of the body, in its progress becomes softened, and acquires, at least in some parts of its extent, a consistence so nearly approaching that of a fluid, as to render the discrimination from it extremely difficult. Then the veins enlarge—the integuments inflame—ulceration en- sues—fungous excrescences protrude,—and the patient sinks under the exhaustion which results from profuse discharge of ill-condition- ed matter or blood. The disease attacks at every time of life, and in both sexes; but seems, on the whole, most frequent between twenty and forty years of age. The only remedy is amputation; and unless this be performed early, before the constitution of the patient is much injured, and freely, so as to remove the whole of the iiffected bone, it will in all probability prove of little permanent benefit. Cystic Tumour of Bone. The bones sometimes, but very rarely, with the exception of the upper and lower jaw, become the seat of cystic formations, of which the cut in page 200 affords an example in the case of the thigh-bone. The swelling is generally not attended with much pain, and at