MOTITIVICATION. 29 CHAPTER II. IMOIITITICATION. Symptoms of Mortification. When Inflammation, instead of terminating in a return to the natural action, goes on to the destruction of the paid concerned, it is said to terminate in Mortification. In tins case the part is not only deprived of sensation and voluntary motion, but is complete- ly ^vested of all vital properties, so that no opposition being any longer presented to the exercise of chemical attraction, putrefactive decomposition at once commences. The appearance of a morti- fied part varies with its structure, just as happens in putrefaction. The soft juicy tissues suffer most alteration, and the hard fibrous ones least The former are reduced at once to the state of a fetid pulp, while the latter retain their distinctive characters for a much longer time. Another circumstance that affects the appearance of a mortified paid, is the degree of action which has preceded its death, since the softness and fetor will of course be greater if much fluid has been accumulated previously. This has led to a division of mortification into moist and dry, which is nearly equivalent to acute and chronic. These terms have also been employed to express the difference which depends upon the disease being of internal, or external origin, in other words, spontaneous, or the result of injury. The symptoms of mortification may be divided into those which precede its accomplishment, those exliibitcd by the mortified part, and those of the system wliicli attend the local changes. The symptoms that precede acute mortification are, generally speak- ing, those indicative of intense inflammation. The redness is bright and fiery, the pain hot and burning, and the swelling tense. As mortification approaches, the swelling, though it may rather in- crease in extent, becomes less tense, and jiits on pressure. The skin acquires a yellowish hue, and exhibits dark mottled spots or broad lines over its surface. The temperature of the part becomes lower, and vesicles, containing a thin serous fluid of a yellow, green, or purple colour, which are named phlyctcnm, make their appear-