62 PRINCII‘I-ES OF SURGERY. SO as not to attract attention until it attains a large size. Owing to the w'ant of action that attends its origin there is little effusion of I lymph, and consequently little resistance to the extension of the matter, whence the sw'elling is often of an irregular figure, Jind readily changes its place according to the tendency of gravity. When the matter passes from one part to another, it constitutes ^ w'hat is called a consrcstive abscess. The contents of chronic ah- ■ ! scesses arc generally thin, and hear no small resemblance to whey, especially as they usually have flakes of curdy-looking matter i floating in them. The superjacent skin is generally not altered in | colour. These abscesses have little disjjosltion to evacuate themselves : spontaneously, as the matter readily extends itself, and thus docs - not occasion sufficient pressure to induce absorption of the external parietes. It is hence the more necessary to make an imtificial open- ing, but this cannot be done without some danger when the collec- | tion is large. The surface of the canty, which not unfrequently is i' capacious enough to contain several pounds of fluid, sometimes 4 inflames, and produces such violent constitutional disturbance * as proves fatal in a few days. IMorc frequently the bad conse- 4 quence consists in a profuse and long-continued discharge from the J morbid surface, by which the patient’s strength is gradually ex- » hausted, and Hectic Fever, as it is called, is excited. In this con- S dition the patient becomes excessively weak and emaeiated; the. ■ countenance is extremely pale, wdth the exception of a red patch on s the cheeks, which contrasts remarkably with the whiteness of the s other parts of the face and especially of the eyes ; the pulse is quick 9 and weak ; he complains, particularly in the evening, of burning B heat in the palms of his hands and soles of his feet; his skin is S dry and hot; and he suffers from nocturnal sweats, often together « with diarrhoea. fi This kind of disturbance is the usual rcsidt of continued irrita- B tion operating on a w^cak subject, and one of its most common w causes is the discharge that follows the opening of a chronic ab- 9 sccss. It used to be suppost'd that the matter occasioned the fever S by being absorbed into the mass of circiilating fluids, but this opi- * nion is now abandoned, and the effects on the system arc attributed ^ to the irritation wdiich attends its secretion. Though the expression ^ Hectic Fever is sanctioned by long use and universal accephition, there appears to be good reason for laying it aside, since it leads directly and unavoidably to erroneous ideas of the condition which it is employed to denote. Fever implies disturbance of all the cor-