rillNCIPLES OF SURGERY. ^70 by IMr Weiss, may be used with safety and advantage; but if there be only one, tiie groping that will generally be required for its seiz- ure can hardly fail of being very injurious. Prosper Alpinus re- lates, that there was a practice in Egypt, of ancient origin and ex- tensive employment, for the removal of stones from the bladder, which consisted in distending the urethra by blowing into it with a tube, and then urging the calculus to descend by pressing on it with the fingers introduced into the rectum. It is difficult to con- ceive the possibility of executing this procedure on an adult, aud in children the urethra is too naiTOw for allowing much advantage to be derived from it Cases sometimes occur in which the calcu- lus has entered into the urethra, and after passing through more or less of its extent, has been arrested at a narrow part of the ca- nal, either natural, or resulting from stricture. The membranous portion is the most common seat of this occurrence, which also happens sometimes at the orifice. A retention of urine oecasion- ally results from the obstruction thus caused; aud, if a full-sized ttitheter were passed without any precaution, it might push the concretion back into the bladder, which of course ouglit to be avoided. The instrument should be merely carried down so far as to disengage the calculus from the contracted place that it oc- cupies, and which it closes like a spherical valve,—or, if of a very small size, it may be conveyed past tbe coneretion into the bladder. The immediate bad effects being thus obviated, it is necessjiry to employ means for assisting the stone to pass forwards. Bougies of progressively increasing size, introduced down to the seat of ob- struction, may prove sufficient for this purpose. Forceps are used with hardly any advantage, from the difficulty of exi)anding their blades. When it proves impossible to extract the calculus from the urethra, it ought to be cut out, which is readily effected, by making an incision upon it while held firmly, so as to prevent any displacement during the operation, or upon a grooved staff. The wound sometimes heals by the first intention, but it is prudent to keep a flexible catheter in the urethra for a few days, to prevent any risk of the urine infiltratiiig into the cellular substance. Cal- culi are sometimes lodged in fistulas of the perineum, and, of course, so long {is they lire permitted to remain, render a cure by the ordinary means impracticiible. If discovered in this situation, they should be removed without delay, by incision. The second mode of removing a stone from the bladder consists in grinding it down to powder, or pieces small enough for cscajiing O o /I