PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 112 its doing so will be much less, there is still room for hope. Even after an aneurism has formed in this situation, the treatment of Guattani, which consists in rest and pressime of the whole limb, sometimes effects the cure, and therefore a trial shoidd he made of these means. In case they fail, it then becomes necessary' to resort to the ligature, and it ought always to he applied, here as elsewhere, to tlie vessel actually concerned, and not to the trunk from which it proceeds. In this situation, the old operation for aneurism is preferable to the modem one, because it affords the easiest access to the artery, and in cases of its high division, strves the surgeon from the risk of tying the wrong vessel; because there is no reason to apprehend degeneration of the coats of the artery in the neigh- bourhood of the diseiise, as the apertiu'e resulted entirely from vio- lence ; and also because simple ligatimc of the artery higher up than the tumour has in some instances proved unsuccessful, owing to the free anastomosis of the branches distributed about the elbow. The best way of proceeiUng is to lay the sac fairly open,—to eva- cuate its contents,—and then bringing into view the wound of the artery either by completely suppressing all flow of blood through means of a tourniquet, or by withdrawing the fore-fingers or thumbs from each other after their points are placed fairly on the orifice, to apply a couple of ligatures, one above, and the other below the opening. Should it ever be thought necessary to tie the humeral above the elbow, the operation may be performed by making an incision tw'o inches and a-half in length along the inner edge of the biceps muscle. The artery will be found lying on the radial side of the median nerve, which by its size and firmness affords a good guide, strictly connected with its veruB comites, and covered by the hume ral vein. When the arteries of the fore-arm happen to be wounded, they ought to be tied at the injured j)art. The radial is found in the first muscular interspace next the radius, and the \dnar in the first muscular interspace next the ulna. ^\T)unds of the hands and vvTist are frequently attended with pro- fuse hemorrhage, for which the humeral artery is sometimes tied. But the fact of this o])eration checking the bleeding jwoves that the case did not reciuire it, since, if the hemorrhagic tendency were strong, it could not be subdued by a ligature so far distant from 'tbe wound, and with so many branches intervening. In all these