235 JOINTS. Ii ing consistence than that accompanying the other disease, as it de- 1 pends merely on thickening and condensation of the cellular sub- jstance. Ulceration of the ciirtilages sometimes causes such violent pain ;and hectic irritation of the system, as to require amputation even vwliile the parts remain in the sUite that has been described; but, i.iu general, it either goes on to supptmation, or tenninates in reco- ' very. When suppm’ation takes place, the joint passes into nearly r the same condition as that which exists in the last stage of the dis- >'ease originating in the gelatinous degeneration of the synovial > structure, so that it would be difficult to discover from dissection T where the morbid changes had commenced; and the case admits of tciu-e only by anchylosis. When the disease terminates favourably I before suppuration, some stiffness of the joint almost always rc- I mains. It appears that the articidating cartilage is never restored, 'whether it has been removed by interstitial absorption, or destroy- led by ulceration, and that the osseous surfaces (deprived of it either unite together by means of i a fibrous or bony medium, or become extremely hard and perfectly smooth, so that they seem as ; if encrusted with ])orcelain. This Porcclanous ^alteration of the articular surfaces has been only ! lately noticed, though far from rare in its oc- currence. The corresponding bones are often i grooved and ridged, so as to allow of motion in (only one direction, and there is always an effu- 'sion of new osseous substance around the raarffin ' of the joint, as if an attem])t had been made to •, effect anchylosis. It may be regai-ded as a sub- stitute for the cartilage in facilitating motion, and is observed occasionally in the new joints resulting from dislocation. If the stifftiess de- pends on true anchylosis or osseous union it does not admit of any remedy, but when the connection is of a fibrous kind, much may be done to increase the degree of mobility. I In conducting the treatment of this disease, the first object is j obviously to protect the joint from all irritations tending to ren- I der the morbid action more acute, and hasten it on to suj)j)uration. , hor this purpose perfect rest, insured by means of splints and ban- fidages, together with strict attention to the various secretions, ought i to be particularly insisted upon. The next and not less import-