209 BONES. Loss of voice, difficulty of breathing, convulsions, and palsy, occa- sionally supervene; the head generally suffers more or less distor- tion to one side, in consequence of the bone giving way under the ulcerative process; and at length, after months or yeai’S of misery, the patient dies, either gradually, from mere exhaustion, or sud- denly, from dislocation of the odontoid process of the second verte- bra, which, becoming detached from the occipital bone, presses backwards on the ynedulla oblongata. If an abscess forms, it is seldom evacuated previously to the patient’s death, and sometimes opens into the pharynx. The subjects of this disease are mostly children and young adults. The treatment requires rest of the head, together with counter-ir- ritation, effected early and powerfully by the actual cautery ; and practitioners ought to beware of mistaking the first indications of this destructive disease for slight rheumatic ailments, deserving of no particular attention. The preparations in museums prove that the cure of the disease, though perliaps very rare, is not impossible. The other disease of the spine which requires to be particularly considered, on account not of its danger to life, but its frequency and important consequences in respect to the patient’s appearance and comfort, consists merely in curvature, without any specific or general morbid affection of the osseous system. It is named the Lateral curvature; its direction being \ery rarely from before back- wards, and almost invariably from side to side. It occurs chiefly between the ages of seven and seventeen : and with few exceptions is confined to the female sex. It generally comes on insidiously, increases progressively, and, terminating at a more or less advanced stage, leaves the patient permanently disfigured in a proportionate degree. The part of the s]iine principally affected is the dorsal portion, which bending to one side, almost always the right one, makes the corresponding scapula and shoulder seem larger and more prominent than usual. As the disease advances, a coimter- balancing bend in the opposite direction takes place in the lumbar region, causing the hip concerned to apjiear enlarged. When the spinous processes are traced downwards fi*om the neck to the sa- crum, the alternate bending in their course may be readily observ- ed. As the curvature continues to increase, the distortion becomes more and more apparent;—the trmik is shortened and looks com- pressed ;—the ribs are approximated from side to side, and pro- truded forwards to increase the capacity of the contracted thorax, wliich thus has its shape entirely altered, and is widest from before o