BLOOD-VESSELS. 123 the sac gives way, and the profuse hemorrhage which ensues, ren- ders immediate amputation necessary. When the tumour is then examined, it is found to contain fluid and coagulated blood, to be hollowed out of the bone concerned, and to have for its cyst the pe- riosteum, more or less strengthened with a lining crust of bone, not dense and compact, but possessing a honeycomb structure, the la- minae of wliich are directed towjmds the centre of the cavity. If the arteries of the limb be injected, it is found that then* trunks are entire; but that their branches which enter the substance of the bone commimicate so freely with the cavity of the swelling, that the matter used for injection, however coarse, readily flows into it The precise natime and origin of this disease have not yet been satisfactorily ascertained The only effectual remedy for it is am- putation. There is one case recorded, where ligature of the femoral artery proved sufficient to cure an aneurismal tumoilr of the tibia ;* but tliis must be regarded merely as an exception to tlie general rule. In amputating, it is always desirable to remove the whole of the bone in which the disease originated: since, though part of it may be apparently sound at the time, it tends to renew the morbid action. Veins. Lijlcunmation of Vebis. The veins are more numerous and capacious than the arteries, whence the blood moves through them more slowly and less forci- bly. The veins not only communicate by capillary anastomosis of their neighbouring branches, but are frequently united in their coiu^e ; and hence occasion less inconvenience by their ob- struction than that of the arteries does. When the principal trunk of a limb is concerned, the resistance which is opposed to the return of the blood causes more or less cedema. The coats of the veins resemble those of the arteries, but are thinner, more closely con- nected, and tougher, so that a ligature merely draws them together without cutting the internal ones. The veins are prone to inflammation, which is very much dis- posed to spread, and chiefly in the course of the circulation. The vein affected feels hard and painful,- especially when extended. The surface of the skin wliich covers it is often red, from the ad- jacent tissues taking on the same action. The pain is of a jieculiar, oppressive, sickening kind, similar to what attemls inflammation of • Lallcmand, ibid, p, 138.