PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 492 causing any expansion of the face by the pressure proceeding from their continued increase. The symptoms which they oecasion are, obstruction of respiration, an uneasy sensation of stuffing of the head, dulness or total loss of smell and taste, and sometimes deaf- ness. It is generally observed that these symptoms are most dis- tinct in moist weather, and least so in an opposite state of the at- mosphere. The treatment of mucous polyj)us consists in removing the excres- cences ; and though various methods have been, and still are, occa- sionally employed for this purpose, there can be no doubt that the best mode of effecting it is evulsion by foreeps. The instrument, Plate IV. Tig. 4, must be so small that its blades can be passed up along the sides of the polypus to its roots, where they should be fixed by strong compression of the handles. The surgeon then, by a com- pound movement of pulling and turning, the latter of which should be steadily in one direction, endeavours to disengage the connec- tions of the tumour. He may fail in the first or several subsequent attempts, but by careful and persevering efforts, guided by acquaint- ance with the shape of the cavity, he is sure of ultimately eradicat- ing the disease. Except in those rare cases where the polypus is single, the patient can hardly be completely relieved by one ope- ration ; and the nostrils, though seemingly quite cleared, are again and again found more or less occupied by a similar excrescenee. The cause of this is j)robably not so much reproduction as expan- sion of the polypous growth, and the repeated relapses, therefore, ought not to oceasion discouragement. Astringent washes and caustic are sometimes employed to repress the tendency to new formation, but there is sti’ong reason to believe that the good ef- fects obtained in this way are very inconsiderable, and it woidd be improper to confide in them so far as to withhold the use of the forceps, so long as any vestige of the disease can be discovered to exist. When the polypus grows from the lining membrane of the inferior spongy bone, which is most aj)t to be the case in children, it may be easily removed by introducing a pair of curved scissors along the edge of the bone, and thus either completely detaching the tumour, or so weakening its connections, as to facilitate its sub- sequent evulsion by the forceps. It is necessary to beware of mis- taking for this disease a mere thiekening of the mucous membrane, which is common in children, or a projection of the septum to one side, which exists to a slight degree in most peoi)le, and not un-