principi.es of surgery. S2 tide sej)aratcs from the discoloiircd spot, and exposes the subjacent texture in the state of slough. The morbid process then either gradually advances until the patient sinks under it at the end of weeks or months, or gradually relaxes in severity, and, ceasing to extend, permits a cure to be accomplished in the way hereafter to be explained. It has generally been supposed that the cause of this disorder consisted in a weakened condition of the foot, proba- bly depending upon obstruction of its arteries, or ossification of their coats; and though the evidence in support of this opinion is very defective, there can at all events be hardly any question as to the propriety of regarding weakness as the root of the evil. Nearly the same effect is produced, when the blood is prevent- ed from returning through the veins by pressure or clostyc of them from other causes. The obstruction of one vein, even though the principal one of the limb, may produce troublesome consequen- ces, but does not occasion mortification. If the principal artery be at the same time obstructed, death of the part is certainly induced. Defect of nervous energy also preebsposes to mortification. People who are paralytic in the inferior extremities, are apt to have slough- ing induced by slight bruises. When the principal nerve of a limb is cut or otherwise interrupted, a tendency to mortification is fre- quently observed at the extremity. Irritabilitif or excessive disposition to act.—Weak parts are always irritable; and hence this cause of mortification is to a certain extent comprehended in the former one. But, independently of weakness, and in the most opposite state of part or constitution, there is fre- quently an excessive disposition to over-action. People who exceed in eating or drinking, or who do not take exercise in ]>roportion to their food, are liable to tliis morbid disposition, which is also some- times met with as an original peculiarity of constitution. Excessive irritation or excitement to act.—Generally speaking, while other tilings are equal, the violence of inflammation is directly in proportion to the irritation. Whence it follows, that severe in- jiuies, or other great and continued irritations, are apt to occasion mortification. Thus there is no constitution able to resist mortifi- cation from the shattering of a limb, or the infiltration of urine into the cellular substance. Treatment of Mortification. The prevention of mortification requires the use of means proper for obviating the jiredisposing causes. If there is general weak- ness of the system from the use of iinjiroper food, or any other