92 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. kind previously seen by him had proved fatal. 1 passed two sewing needles crosswise cis deep as possible through the conical cavity from which the blood proceeded, and then tied a thread round them. Styptics are agents wliich, independently of any compressing ef- ' feet, possess a power of checking hemorrhage. Of these may be mentioned the sulphates of copper, zinc, iron, and alumina, and the nitrate.of silver: strong sjjirits, oil of turpentine, and the actual cautery; also soft spongy or ]>owdery substances, such as dried ly- co])crdon, spiders’ wehs, and the agaric of the oak or amadou. This last constituted the famous styptic of Brossard, which possessed a very high reputation both in France and in this country towards the close of the, last century. Before the proper principles for ap- plying the ligature were ascertained and received, styptics were re- garded as important means for controlling hemorrhage; but they are now very little used; and the actual cautei'y is almost the only one of them still retained in use. It is occasionally, but very rarely re- sorted to on accoimt of bleeding in situations inaccessible either to the ligature or to pressure. M. Amussat has lately endeavoured to introduce a fourth mode of sujjpressing hemorrhage, which con- sists in twisting tlie mouths of the vessels. Tliis torsion is effected differently, according to the size of the artery. AVhen small, it is simply twisted; when large, the internal coats are first pushed back by means of one pair of forceps, while the extremity is tightly held by another. There can be no doubt as to the possibility of attain- ing the object on this ])rinciple; but the expediency of doing so seems much more questionable. In the removal of a tumoim, or iiny other considerable dissection, most of tlic arterial branches which throw out jets of blood when divided are speedily obstructed by the spontaneous process; so that at the conclusion of the opera- tion only the few of larger capacity requiring ligatures present themselves to view. Now, if every bleeding point had been sub- jected to torsion in the first instance, it might thus seem to have been productive of great benefit, wliile, if applied to the larger vessels, it would not afford so complete security as the ligature. There is accordingly hardly any case in which the torsion proves useful except in wounds of the lips and cheeks, in which union by the first inten- tion is very desirable, and almost certainly effected if the raw edges are placed j)roperly in contact But the coronary arteries and other branches of the facial cannot be tied without leaving threads apt to disturb the adhesive process, while from the projection of their cut extremities beyond the surface of the wound, they^are very favour- ably situated for being twisted.