PIIINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 410 Medullary Sarcoma of the Testicle, Excepting the bones and the mamma, the testicle is perhaps more subject to the derangement of nutrition, which leads to this morbid growth, than any structure in the body. It is generally met with at and before the middle period of life; sometimes com- mencing without any assignable cause, but not unfrequently being referred to blows, or bruises, or to inflammation excited by other means. The patient’s appearance is generally healthy, and the diseased action shows less tendency to spread than when it occurs in other parts. The tumour merely enlarges, becoming very ir- regular and tuberous on the simface, and exhausts the patient by the irritation which the pain attending it occasions; but the inte- guments and glands are extremely slow in acquiring the morbid disposition, so that the operation of removal, which, of course, af- fords the only means of relief, is performed even in very advanced cases with a favourable prognosis. In the earlier stage of the gi’owth, it is often found very difficult to determine positively, by external examination, whether the swelling is solid, or depends on the presence of fluid. The globular shape, tendency to tuberous projections of the surface, pain, and equality of consistence at all })arts of the tumoiir, observed when it is solid, may generally ren- der the discrimination precise; but in cases of doubt, the truth can readily be discovered by making a puncture, which can do no harm, if the patient is prepared to submit to extirpation of the tes- ticle in the event of its proving necessary. The tumour, when divided, displays the characters peculiar to such degenerations, namely, a soft brain-like pidpy substance, irregidarly partitioned by thin sephi of cellulai* texture, and varying in colour from white to dark-red, according to the proportion of blood which enters into the composition of the mass. Suppuration, and Fuvyus of the Testicle. Young men of scrofulous constitutions arc liable to abscesses and sinuses of the testicle, which prove very obstinate unless they are freely dilated by incision. It might seem in such cases that extir- ])ation would be a sini])ler, much sj)cedier, and hardly more injimi- ous mode of relief, than thus laying open the structure of the gland, by dividing it in various directions; but after the cure is completed, very little trace of these incisions remains, and the organ seems still cai)able of performing its office. It occasionally happens after suppuration has taken place In the testicle, particidarly when in- 3