11 INFLAMMATION. turbed, being regarded as controlling the capillary circulation, a corresponding derangement of it ought to be expected. Inflammation may therefore be defined to be,—a 'perverted ac- tion of the capillary system, generally attended with heat, pain, red- ness, and swelling. Inflammation terminates in various ways. Sometimes all the symptoms disappear, and the part resumes its natural condition, when it is said to terminate in Resolution. At other times it ends by destrojing the life of the part; and is then said to terminate in Mortification. It also terminates in various actions, producing al- teration of the structore, or the separation of matters from the blood, differing in quantity or qmdity from those naturally secreted by it. Of these tlie most remarkable are the following:—The formation of a peculiar fluid named Pus, which is called Suppm-ation,—the Effusion of serum, or lymph, i. e. the fibrin, in a state I’esembling the buffy coat,—the removal of solid or fluid parts of the body, wliich is named Absorption,—and the production of some solid structure, differing in quantity or quality from that natimally exist- ' ing, which may be designated Diseased Nutrition. Inflammation has been variously divided and named, according to its termination,—the predominant local, and constitutional symp- toms,—the degree of its violence,—and the part affected. Most of these distinctions, so far from symplifying the subject, have tend- ed greatly to obscure and perplex it. Instead of causing inflam- mation to be regarded as a morbid action, always of the same nature, and merely modified in its symptoms and termination, according to the part and constitution affected, they have made it appear a group of dissimilar processes, arranged under one title, but widely and essentially different from each other. Inflammation of particular organs and tissues is expressed in modem nomenclature by adding the termination itis to the ana- tomical title of the pai’t affected, as Iritis, Gastritis, Phlebitis. Eor some parts the old and peculiar appellations are still retained,— as Erysipelas for inflammation of the skin. Ophthalmia for that of the eye. The severity of the symptoms also requires to be distlngiushed; for which purpose the terms Acute and Chronic are employed to denote the two extremes of violence, while the interaiediate degrees are indicated by qualifying epithets. Acute inflammation frequent- ly passes into the chronic ; but the latter often exists independent- ly and originally. When the inflammation is acute, it terminates