PllINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. 32* the bag, as there is here most fluid between it and the enclosed in- t('stine. In cases of femoral hernia requiring operation, the contents ot the tumour are almost always recently protruded, and therefore seldom present those adhesions or other morbid alterations which frequently render the inguinal operation so embarrassing. The direction in which the stricture should be divided has af- forded fruitfid subject of discussion. If the knife is carried up- wards, so as to cut through the crural arch, it must evidently en- danger the spermatic cord or romid ligament. This, therefore, which was the old operation, is decidedly objectionable. Gimber- nat of Madrid observed (1793) that the stricture in femoral hernia on the pubic side of the neck of the sac was not situated, as had been erroneously believed before, at the tuberosity of the pubis, but at the distance of between one and two inches from it, and was formed by what is now called the crescentic margin of the crural arch. The attachment of the fascia* to the bone, between this jroint and the tuberosity of the pubis, has been named Gimbernat’s liga- ment, an ajrpellation which, by conveying the idea of a distinct in- dependent structure, has occasioned much confusion. Having as- certained this important anatomical fact, Gimbcrnat introduced a new method of relieving the stricture, which was to cut inwards from the neck of the sac towards the pubis. He operated very rudely, by passing a grooved director and bistoury between the in- testine and stricture into the .abdomen, and then separating them so as to make a ver;y free division of the fasciae, and thus endanger the bladder, or even the uterus if distended. The principle of the operation, however, being good, was ado])ted in practice, and would probably long ere now have been invariably acted on, were it not that, in jwst mortem examination of femoral hernias, the obturator artery has been found rising from the ei)igastric or external iliac and encircling the neck of the sac. This origin of the artei'y is now ascertained to be far from unusual, but there is reason to doubt that the vessel will often allow the hernia to protrude between it and the trunk from which it ilses, so as to lie on the pubal side of the sac, and be in the way of the knife, and even though it were to be so situated, there seems little danger of cutting its coats in di- viding the stricture, provided this part of the operation be properly performed. The tumour, which is generally very small, depends principally on fluid accumuhated in the sac, and the portion of in- testine subjected to strangulation is often no larger than the point of the finger; but even tliough it should equal in size a pigeon’s