21 INFLAMMATION. to the strength of the patient and the quantity of blood withdi'awn, provided it is not so large as at once to induce sinking or death; and, in circumshinces favourable for its production, may become so excessive as to closely simulate the symptoms of inflammatory fever. The pulse is extremely frequent, and has a peculiar jarring or jerk- ing sort of character—the respiration is hurried—the face is flushed —the eyes are red and suffused—the patient complains of intense headach, and distracting noises in his ears—and when blood is drawn it exliibits the bufly coat, though hardly the cupped siuface which is seen during inflammation. The local symptoms of inflammation are not wanting; and the brain, with its membranes, is the part which most frequently suffers; but the viscera of the thorax and ab- domen are not exempt from risk. Tliis cui’ious state, for pointing out which we are much indebted to Dr Marshall Hall,* may be induced either by one or two very large bleedings, or by a number of small ones, causing a con- tinued drain on the system for days, weeks, or months; and ac- cordingly, as it occurs in one or other of these ways, the symptoms vary in the degree of their \dolence or acuteness. It may terminate in fatal effusion on the brain, or some other important organ, in sinking, or in a return to health. Bleeding, as might be expected, though it affords temporary relief, is apt to increase the evil, either by making the state of excitement more quickly terminate in sink- ing, or by increasing the violence of its symptoms. Perfect rest, both of body and mind ; cold applications to the head ; gentle opiates ; and the gradual operation of time, ought to be trusted to as the means of relief. The discrimination between the symptoms of excessive reaction and those of inflammation, is of the utmost importance in practice; and the following observations as to the circumstances which mo- dify the effects of hemorrhage are deserving of much attention. In yomig subjects, that is to say children and infants, the power of reaction is feeble, and the risk of sinking consequently great; but if the immediate danger be surraoimted, recovery is accom- plished quickly and perfectly. In adults who are weak from age or any other cause, there is also small power of reaction ; but their danger of sinking is not merely in the first instance, and continues for a much longer time afterwards, as the restoration to health is slow and imj)erfcct. Med. Cliirurg. Trans. Vol. xiii. p. 127.