PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 174 nelled or grooved longitudinally, to insure its steadiness, and at the extremity which is to be placed next the hand, somewhat cimved outwards, so that when the bandage is applied, the inversion may be j)erfectly under command. But it is usually found sufficient to apply pasteboard splints long enough to reach from the elbow to the fingers, and thus have such a purchase on the hmid as may pre- vent its inversion by the action of the muscles. The shaft of the ulna also is occasionally broken alone, but not nearly so frequently as the radius. The cause is violence acting directly on the injured part. There is generally little displacement; and the treatment is consequently very easy, requiring merely splints and a bandage. The olecranon is sometimes broken away from the shaft of the bone by falls on the elbow. When the tough ligamentous cover- ing of the process remains entire, the fragment suffers no cbsplace- ment, and its lateral mobility is the only indication of the fracture in addition to the ordinary pain, swelling, and crepitus. But when this fibrous connection is ruptured, the triceps pulls up the detach- ed olecranon to the distance of an inch or more from its proper place. This fracture, in several imporbmt respects, resembles that of the patella and neck of the femur; and accordingly, like them, is generally repaired by a fibro-cartilaginous medium instead of bone. With proper care, however, the broken surfcues may be kept so near each other, that no inconvenience is experienced on this account The treatment obviously requires that the limb should be extended, and this is best done by placing a pasteboard splint on the fore-part of the limb, a figure of 8 bandage having been previ- ously applied, so as to retain the fragment in its proper position. Both the bones of the fore-arm are sometimes broken together, but this is a rare occurrence, and happens either from falls on the hand or blows on the arm. The accident is readily recognized, and easily treated, so for as the cm*e admits of being promoted by external means; but it is difficult to prevent the bones from ap- proaching each other more or less, and even in some cases uniting together, so as to impede their robitory motion. A couple of paste- board splints, supported by a roller, and if the patient is thin, a longituclinal compress placed between the radius and ulna on both sides of the limb, are all the means that can be emjjloyed to pre- vent such consequences, and })reserve the shape of the ann. The humerus is very liable to fracture in almost every part of its extent; and in respect to the diagnosis and treatment, it is neces-