JOINTS. 245 tion, makes a transverse incision into the joint, close above the ole- cranon, and extending from the inner edge of this jsrocess to the external tuberosity of the humerus. It is necessary in doing this to be careful to avoid the ulnar nerve, which lies close upon the i inner side of the olecranon, and the safest plan is to thrust down the I knife perpendicularly into the joint, with its back directed towards |t the nerve. At each extremity of the transverse cut thus made, the surgeon next makes an incision about an inch and a lialf long, both i upwards and downwards, in the long direction of the limb, so as to : form two square flaps, and give the form of the wound a resem- !' blance to the letter H. These flaps being detached from the parts ' below them, the olecranon may be easily removed by the saw or pliers, after which no difficulty will be exjjerienced in cutting the I lateral ligaments of the joint, protruding the extremity of the Ini- i.merus, and sawing it off tluough the tuberosities. Lower than this twoidd not be sufficient for removing the whole of the cartilaginous ssurface, and the caries very rarely extends higher up. The head ‘of the radius may next be cut away with the pliers; and then no- 'tliing remains to be done but the separation of the portion of tlie .sigmoid cavity of the ulna that wjis left after the removal of the olecranon, which may now be readily effected by the pliers. It j might be thought better to take away all of the ulna that required iexcision at once, but the attachment of the bmc/uceus internus to i the coronoid process renders this very difficult, especially if it is ^attempted before the free space afforded by the removal of the other 4)ones is obtained. After the olecranon and the extremities of the humerus and radius are detached, it is easy to cut out with the \)liers any more of the ulna that may be required. In determining on the extent to which it is necessjiry to remove he bone, the truly carious pjut must be carefully distinguished ! Tom the rough and thickened state of the neighbouring bone, which lepends upon the effusion of new osseous substance in consequence )f the disease causing irritation. When we read of the humerus )eing cut out to the extent oifour inches, it may be safely conclud- 'tl that this discrimination has not been duly regarded. It is seldom necessary to tie any arteries; but if a disposition 0 bleed should be observed when the operation is finished, the : essels ought to be sought for and secured, as the hemorrhage ' dien a.llowed to continue produces very disjigreeable effects by istending the wound, so])ara(ing its edges, and causing great 'ritation. Ihc wound should be closed with stitches of the inter- L