EYE. 451 or indirect, as inversion of the eye-lashes’, or derangement of the digestive organs. Ttie treatment requires, in the first place, that the eye should be relieved and protected from all sources of irritation. Foreign bodies, if suspected, must be searched for and removed, the eye- lids, if necessary, being everted, so as to bring the whole extent of their mucous surface into view. Workmen employed in forg- ing or grinding iron are exposed to the entrance of small sparks from the metal into the eye, where they generally fix themselves in the conjunctival lining of the cornea, and, unless speedily wiped off, are apt to become imbedded in its substance, where, being ex- tremely small, they may remain a long while producing irritation without being discovered. The light of the patient’s room should be obscured, and he ought to abstain fi’orn all attempts to use the organ. Free evacuation of the bowels by mercurial or saline pur- gatives, leeches applied to the neighbourhood of the eye, and warm fomentations frequently repeated, are the means of most use. If fever exists, general bleeding, in sufficient quantity to produce a decided effect on the system, should be employed. The blood may be taken either from the arm or temporal artery, but gfeems to be abstracted most beneficially in the former mode. When the chemosis is so great as to impede the closing of the eyelids, some portions of the distended membrane may be cut off with scissors, which relieves the distension, and tends also to subdue the inflam- matory action. After the intensity of the symptoms has been sub- dued, and they assume the chronic character, or if they appear in this form from the commencement of the attack, decided benefit is usually derived from introducing into the eye once a-day, a dilute solution of the nitrate of silver. The vinous solution and tincture of opium, with various other stimulating and astringent ap- plications, have been employed at this stage of the disease, but the solution just mentioned is far more beneficial than any of these. Its most convenient strength seems to be obtained by dissolving two grains in an ounce of rose-water, but many use it in a much larger proportion than this. Scarification of the inner surface of the eyelids was formerly much practised in the chronic state of inflam- mation, but is now seldom resorted to, as the relief it affords is ge- nerally of short duration. It is executed by everting the eyelid to J)e operated on, scratching it longitudinally in several places with a lancet, and wiping away the blood as long as it flows, with a sponge or piece of lint. Leeches produce most cflfect when appli-