460 PIUNCITLES OF SUPCFllY. light-coloured eyes, where it is generally of dense structure. Ex- ternal violence, as that of a smart blow on the eye, or the penetra- tion of a sharp pointed Instrument into the lens, frequently induces almost immediately the formation of cataract, wliich in such cases is usually of a white colour and soft consistence. It appears that the substance of a lenticular cataract suffers no change in its firm- ness during the continuance of the opacity, and that it is either hard or soft from the commencement of the disease. The symptoms of cataract are, 1. a brown, yellow, grey, or white colour of the pupil, instead of its usual blackness; 2. defective vi- sion, from mere dimness to complete blindness, except that the power remains of discerning the outlines of objects held between the eye and the light; 3. mobility of the iris, and the absence of symptoms denoting affection of the nervous system. As the opacity usually takes place slowly and gradually, the in- dications of it are at first very slight, and increiise almost impercej)- tibly until it is com])leted. During the progress of the disease the ])atient sees best in an obscure light, as the pupil then dilates most, and exposes the lens towards its circumference, where the opacity is less, partly from its thinness at this part, and also from the mor- bid change beginning at the centre. Belladonna or other ap})lica- tions that dilate the pupil, improve the power of vision, on the same principle, so long tis they contiime in operation. A great variety of means have been tried for arresting the pro- gress of cataract, and inducing reilioval of the opacity by absor{>- tion, so as to restore the lens to its natural state. None of these have had the desired eftect; and it is now admitted, that the only mode of relieving the patient is to remove the opaque body from the situation in which it impedes the entrance of light The ope- rations performed with this view may be divided into three kinds : 1. those which merely alter the position of the lens, so <is ,to pre- vent it from obstructing vision ; 2. those which extract the lens al- together from the eye; and, 3. those which disintegrate the struc- ture of the lens, and expose it to a process, whether of solution or absorption, is not well asccrfiiined, but which gradually diminishes its fragments, and finally removes all trace of them. The first of these methods, or Couching, as it is called, may be effected either by depression or reclination. In the former of those the lens is made to descend into the lower part of the eyeball, still preserving its original situation in regard to tlie ]iarietcs of the ca- vity. In the latter its upper edge is turned backwards, so that the