439 SKIN. CHAPTER XXL f* — SKIN. Erythema, Erysipelas, and Anthrax. The skin is liable to inflammation in consequence of very nume- rous and various irritations, direct as well as indirect. When pro- ceeding from the former, it is either attended with merely local inconvenience, or, if sufficiently severe to distimb the sj'stem, occa- sions symptomatic fever, which presents the usual characters of that accompanying inflammatory affections. The morbid action of the part concerned does not tend to diffuse itself more extensively, and, according to the particular circumstances of the case, terminates in resolution, mortification, suppuration, effusion, ulceration, or dis- eased nutrition. Inflammation of the skin, resulting from indirect irritation through constitutional disturbance, is distinguished by some important differences, of which the most deserving of atten- tion are its tendency to spread, and the peculiar nature of the dis- order in other parts of the system that is connected with it The terms Erythema, Erysipelas, and Anthrax, the last of which may include Carbuncle, Furuncle, and Boil, are used to denote the prin- cipal modifications which it presents. The first is applied to a very superficial redness, attended with hardly any perceptible swelling, evanescent on pressure being applied, having an extreme tendency to spread over the body, occasioning a hot burning sensation, and terminating in resolution. It is preceded and accompanied by great constitutional disturbance, being ushered in with prolonged and repeated rigors, sickness, and retching, which is sometimes almost incessant for several days together. The pulse is extremely quick, but not strong ; the tongue is coated with a yellowish-white fur, inclining to be dry ; the skin is very hot, often raising the thermo- meter to 104°; the patient complains of an insufferable burning sensation all over the body"; his countenance has a yellow hue, and anxious expression; his mind is weak, and apt to wander. The