195 BONES. ttion of its sides, or when it is formed, in the first instance, exterior tto it, the integuments are elevated, and at length give way, with Egreat relief from the pain which was previously suflfered. The ab- ssccss may then heal, like an ordinary one of the soft parts, or prove very (obstinate, or permanently resist all means of cure. It is impossible tto foretell positively which of these events will ensue, but experience iand attention to the following circumstances generally enable the s surgeon to form a pretty accurate opinion as to the result 1. If tthe patient possesses a good constitution, and suppuration in the Ibone has been induced in consequenc5e of inflammation caused by s severe external violence, such as the wound of a joint, the prog- inosis may be favourable. 2. If the patient possesses a bad (jon- sstitution, and the primary inflammation has commenced without I any external cause, or one comparatively so slight as a bruise or a e strain, which of itself is evidence of his constitution being unsound, tthe disease will probably be obstinate or incm*able. 3. If the pa- ttient is an infant or child, and especially if he suflfers from suppura- ttion of several bones at the same time, there is a good prospect of (an ultimate cure, but not without a very tedious process of recovery. '4. If the suppuration takes place in a bone that naturally possesses I a dense texture, but which has been opened out by previous disease, ; it generally admits of cure more readily than when seated in one originally cancellated Sir B. Brodie has lately directed attention t to abscesses forming in the cancellated textiue of bones, but more t especially the tibia, and remaining latent for an unlimited duration I of months or years, the chief symptoms being enlargement of the \ bone, with tliickening of the soft parts, and deep-seated pain. In f such cases he advises, on the ground of repeated success, the em- } ployment of a trephine to evacuate the matter; and tlus practice ; has been adopted with advantage. But tliis operation must not be r resorted to without the greatest caution, since chronic periostitis is ? extremely apt to simulate the condition requiring its performance, j and has misled practitioners, even of the most extensive experience, ; to trepan unnecessarily, with effects not less disastrous than even I the death of the patient ' Whatever be the opinion entertained of the probable result of j the case, after the matter has been evacuated, it ought always at I first to be treated as if the sore were expected to heal. Free open- j. ings should be afforded to the discharge; stimulating washes, with ^ moderate pressure afterwards applied; and tlie patient’s general E health carefully preserved. If tliese means fail, some more power-