425 BRAIN. Compression of the brain, when a consequence of external vio- lence, is directly caused either by elfusion of blood, or by depres- sion of the skidl. In both cases the symptoms are the same, and denote suspension of the cerebral functions, more or less complete. The patient lies as if in a profound sleep ; his breathing is stertor- ous ; his pulse slow' and laboiu'ing; his pupils immoveable, and in general dilated. He groans occasionally, wdnees under pressure applied to the injured part of his head, and frequently raises his hand to it. This state may continue, without suftering any mate- rial change, for a period of indefinite length, from hours to weeks, or even months; but generally terminates in the course of a few days at farthest, either in a return to health, or in inflammation. Effusion of blood may take place betw’een the skull and dura mater, on the surface of the brain, and into its substance. In all of these situations it depends on ruptxire of the vessels from concussion ; and therefore, the symptoms of that kind of injury are at first generally associated with those of compression. As the symptoms of concus- sion, however, always go off soon, unless the brain has been lace- rated, it may be concluded, if the patient remains insensible be- yond an hour or two, that there is either an effusion of blood, or rupture of the cerebral substance. The latter case may be, in general, distinguished by the more complete insensibility, and other Indications of suspended function which attend it, and by the early appearance of inflammatory symptoms. It seems that the efi^usion does not always occur immediately after the injury is sustained, but sometimes takes place gradually, so that there may be either no in- sensibility observable for a short period after the blow' is inflicted, or an interval betw'een the insensibility caused by concussion and that resulting from compression. In this case there can be no doubt as to compression being the cause of the symptoms. The quantity of blood effused is often very great, amomiting to several ounces. Between the skull and dura mater it usually takes the form of a cake, of limited extent; on the surface of the brain it constitutes a thin crust or lining, w'idely spread over it; and in the substance of the organ it is generally coagulated at the centre of the injured part^ and diffused, in the form of ecchymosed spots, into the neighboiu'- hood. The largest accumidations of blood arc met with betw'ceu the dura mater and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it seems to be effused from the meningeal artery. The ex_ travasation, in general, takes place cither immediately under the ])art subjected to violence, or on the side of the head opposite to it.