PUINCIPLES OF SUIIGERY. 388 cle, are apt to inflame; abscesses form exterior to the urethra; the prostate and bladder take on a similar diseased action; and vari- ous important consequences thus ensue, which will be particularly considered hereafter. The primary and essential morbid action is confined to the extremity of the urethra, from its orifice to the dis- tance of an inch backwards. The treatment requires, in the first place, general bleeding, jmr- gation, and the antiphlogistic regimen, to moderate the inflamma- tion, and allay the fever. The patient at the SJime time should drink freely of diluent mucilaginous fluids, such as rice-water, or linseed tea, and foment the penis frequently with warm water. When the intensity of the disease has been subdued, internal and external means may be employed to stop the discharge. Of the former, the balsam of copaiva, and cubeb pepper arc the most powerful; and tliey act much more certainly w'hen administered in substance, than when their virtues are attempted to be concentrated by deconq)osition into extracts or essences. As the copaiva is not only extremely nauseous, but apt to excite sickness, vomiting, and great general uneasiness, it must be given cautiously, in small doses, combined wdth camphorated mixtiu'e, spirit of nitrous ether, or some such vehicle, and a little laudanum or muriate of morphia. The cubehs may be given more fi’eely, either along with the mixtiu’e just mentioned or alone. One or tw’O drachms may be prescribed three or four four times a-day, and milk seems to be the best me- dium for its administration. . The external remedies are injections of stimulating and astringent fluids into the urethra. For this pur- pose the solutions of several metallic salts, as the sulphates of zinc and copper, the acetates of lead and zinc, and the nitrate of silver, are chiefly employed. The best is perhaps six grains of sulphate of zinc dissolved in four ounces of rose-water ; and the others are generally used about the same strength. No injections should ever be employed until the symptoms of inflammation have been subdu- ed ; and even then if the patient has an irritable constitution, they ought to be prescribed with extreme caution. Not more than a quarter of an ounce should' be thrown in at once, and the penis should be compressed between the finger and thumb at the neck of the glans, to prevent the fluid from passing farther back than this, which is the limit of the disease. The injection may be repeated three or four times a-day, unless it occasions a renewal of the in- flammatory symptoms, when it must be immediately abandoned. If, notwithstanding these means, the running contiiuics several