72 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. constiint, but attacking the patient by tits. Sometimes it is describ- ed as hot or burning, and is then usually more fixed. Carcinoma tends to inflame and ulcerate. If the skin is afiect- ed, this takes place on the surface, in which a breach opens, and gradually extends. If the disease be more deeply seated, an ab- scess is formed within it, which discharges its contents, and leaves a cavity ready to take on the same sort of action as the ulcer w'hich is established in the other way. In both cases the ulcer makes no advance towards reparation, but proves truly specific and incorri- gible, and is named a Cancer. The process is occasionally re- versed, the morbid formation taking place round a sore, which, in the first instiince, does not present any malignant characters. The base and edges of cancer are of course extremely hard, since the excavation is formed in a carcinomatous mass. The ulcer is very irregular in the shape of its margin and surface; sometimes it is deep, and as if scooped out of the part; at other times, cauliflower- looking excrescences i*ise from it, and hang over the edge. The discharge is generally profuse, bloody, and fetid. The pain is usually incessant, and of various kinds, but sometimes gives very little trouble. The patient loses appetite and sleep; complains of w'andering pains and weakness of the limbs; becomes gradually ex- hausted; and at last dies, in general rather suddenly, before the period which might have been expected from the progress of the disease. The rapidity of its com*se varies greatly, a few months being sometimes sufficient for its reaching a fatal termination; while in other cases it exists for years wdth little change, or even remains stationary altogether. The treatment of carcinoma in its different stages has engaged more attention than perhaps that of any other surgical disease; and it has been repeatedly believed that means of correcting the morbid action were discovered. More careful observation Inis uniformly proved these expechitions to be fallacious; and it must be admit- ted, that, so far as we know at ])resent, there is no cure for carci- noma exce])t extirj)ation. Much may perha})s be done in the w'ay of prevention, by protecting those parts of the body most subject to the disease from the influence of irritation, at that period of life when the disposition to it exists most strongly ; and leeching, with fomentation, in most cases, not only alleviates the severity of the symptoms, but retards the advance of the malady. Tranquillity of body and mind, regularity in the secretions, and moderate diet, conduce to the same effect. The pain of cancer may be soothed by