PHINC1PI.ES OF SUllGERV. 312 a bandage is ever required, it can very rarely be afterwards dis- pensed with. In the treatment of Incarcerated hernia, the object should be to remove the obstacles which oppose reduction. The intestines should be unloaded by the free administration of purgatives and injections. If there is reason to suppose that the resistance to the retimn of the protruded parts depends on thickening and induration of the omentum, which sometimes can be felt tlmough the parietes of the tumour, the patient should be confined to bed, restricted to a slender diet, and depleted from time to time by bleeding, or ca- thartics, with the view of producing, during the general emaciation of the body thus induced, a sufficient diminution of the omental mass to permit the accomplishment of reduction. In the case of adhesions existing between the viscera and sac, the only practicable mode of overcoming the difficulty woidd be to lay open the contents of the hernia, and separate their morbid connections. Operations have accordingly been performed for this purpose, but their almost uniformly fatal result ought to deter all prudent surgeons from re- peating such attempts. And if the gentle means above-mentioned should prove unavailing, it will be better to advise the patient to be satisfied with such palliation of his complaint, as may be obtain- ed from strict attention to the state of his bowels, abstinence from all violent exertions, and the support of a bag truss, than to endan- ger his life by trying to effect a radical cure with the knife. The Strangulated condition of hernia being attended not ordy with extreme suffering, but also with great and immediate danger, demands the most speedy and decided assistance of the surgeon. His first object is of course to effect reduction ; and this he imme- diately endeavours to perform by a careful manipulation, which is named the Taxis. The patient should be laid reclining, with his shoulders and pelvis slightly elevated, to relax the parietes of the alxlomen; and wdth the siune intention, the thigh of the affected side should be bent ujjwards and inwards, as the fascia lata is thns prevented from causing any tension of the abdominal fascia? to which it is connected. The hernial tumour is then to be grasped at its neck, and compressed with the points of the finger and thumb, which at the same time pull it slightly outwards. The size of the parts at the ring having been thus diminished, the pressure is to be directed gently but steadily upw'ards, in the direction of the in- guinal canal. When, in consequence of this proccetling, the slight- est gurgle is lieard or felt, or the size of the swelling is perceptibly