BLOOD-VESSELS. 101 ligatures is attended with considerable danger of hemorrhage, and it will, therefore, be proper to confine this practice to the circum- stances which have been mentioned as requiring it. After the principal artery of the limb is obstructed, the capillary anastomoses of the branches which arise above and below the im- pervious part, afford a new channel for the conveyance of the blood, and in general so free a one, that little apprehension need be en- tertained of bad consequences from imperfect circulation. The di- latation of the small vessels which occurs before the operation, ow- ing to the natural channel becoming more or less impeded by the disease, also conti-ibutes to prevent this. It has been thought by Dr Parry of Bath, M. Maunoir of Geneva, &c. that new branches are occasionally formed, after a time, between the obstructed ex- tremities of the artery, leading directly from the one to the other; but there can be no doubt that the alleged new vessels are really the old ones of the sheath, which become enlarged in a greater pro- portion than the neighbouring capillaries, conformably Avith a well ascertained law of anastomotic circulation, viz. that those branches have the greatest tendency to enlarge, which lie most nearly in the coiu^e of the obstructed vessel. In order to prepare the new pas- sage for noimishing the limb, it has been proposed to delay operat- ing in recent cases; but the inconvenience attending a large sac, the contents of which are sometimes slowly and imperfectly absorb- ed, or excite irribition that induces suppuration, and the risk of the artery becoming diseased nearer the heart, more than counterba- lance any slight advantage to be gained in this way. However free the new channel may be, it is always inadequate, in the first instance, to afford the full supply of blood requisite for caiTying on the various actions as usual. The limb becomes more or less cold and numb, and continues so for a longer or shorter time, seldom exceeding a few hours after the operation. It then rises in temperature even above that of the corresj)onding sound one, and becomes painful; at the same time slight pidsation may retura in the aneurism. To prevent this overaction from proving excessive, and inducing mortification, all sources of additional ex- citement, such as friction with stimulants, hot fomentations, and the like, ought to be carefully avoided. When the stage of reaction subsides, which it does in a day or two, the limb still remains wetik and liable to suffer from slight irritation, so that even the pressure of its own weight occasionally causes sloughing. The support of a flannel bandage will therefore be proper, and, with a similar view.