ABDOMEN. 311 there is little pain referred to the seat of the disease ; but if the pa- tient is not relieved, inflammation commences, and then the tumour becomes red, tense, painful, and tender to the touch. This inflam- mation may extend inwards and prove fatal, like peritonitis proceed- ing from any other source, or it may remain confined to the pro- truded viscera, and, perhaps leading in the first instance to efiusion of lymph, terminate in their mortification, when the patient either dies, or recovers with a preternatural opening of the gut at the groin, d’he time required for the completion of this process varies extremely in its different stages. It is observed to proceed most rapidly when the patient is young and stout, and when the hernia is small and recent It is generally more slow in opposite circum- stances, but many exceptions occur, and it is never possible to pre- dict with any precision the time that will elapse before inflamma- tion and its consequences are induced. Mortification rarely takes place sooner than eight hours, or later than eight days after the strangulation hfis commenced. The treatment of Reducible hernia consists in the use of means proper for obviating the predisposing and exciting causes of the disease. With this view the inguinal region of the abdominal pa- rietes should be strengthened by the mechanical support of a ban- dage. Various contrivances have been employed for this purpose; but the patent truss of Salmon and Ody is in general so superior in efficiency and comfort, that it does not seem necessary to mention the others. A timely use of this apparatus may prevent the occur- rence of hernia in persons whose strong predisposition to the disease is manifested .by a fulness perceptible in the groin during the im- pulse of coughing, and by a painful sensation at the same part whenever the viscera are subjected to more than usual pressure, as in making exertion with the arms, or speaking loud. The predis- position being thus guarded against, all sources of excitement must be carefully avoided. The patient should abstain from every sort of food that by producing flatulence, or in any other way, Cciuses distension of the howels; he ought to correct any tendency that may be observed to accumulation in the intestinal canal; and he should never engage in exercises or employments that require se- vere bodily exertion. In the treatment of congenifid hernia, it is of great consequence that the truss should be applied as early as possible, in order that the natural disposition whicli the jiarts con- cerned have to close at the time of birth may be allowed to exert its effect, and a radical cure be thus obtained. Beyond this age, if