353 PELVIS, tcm are {jarticularly irritable. Metallic bougies are best calculated for the purpose, being the most smooth, and easily guided- They may be made solid of steel and hollow of silver, or of the compound metal named Berlin silver, which I have found to answer very well for the purpose, being sufficiently rigid, taking a fine polish, and not being liable to rust. They should be gently passed down to the obstructed part, in a series of gradually decreasing sizes, un- til one can be introduced into the bladder, after which it ought to be immediately withdrawn. In the course of two or three days, when all the irritation that has thus been excited seems to have sul)- sided, the same instrument may again be introduced, and after it is withdrawn, another of somewhat larger size. By proceeding in this way, the cure, in moderately favourable circumstances, may be completed witbin from three to six weeks. The grand error to be avoided, is that of proceeding too hastily, which not only defen,ts the practitioner in attaining the object he has in view, but exposes the patient to the danger of hemorrhage, complete retention of urine, swelled testicle, feverish attacks resembling ague, and other unjdeasant consequences. The urethra should always be dilated to its full size, as a relapse is otherwise apt to happen ; but any fur- ther extension than tliis can do no good When the disease is complicated with Jistula in perinea, the same treatment proves sufficient, as the sinuses, together with the callosities or induration surrounding them, speedily disappear after the obstruction whicb gave rise to them is removed. The inci- sions, excisions, and cauterizations, which were formerly jiractiscd, are therefore both unnecessary and improj)er. If the urethra is al- together obstructed anterior to the fistula, so that even the small- est instrument cannot be passed through it, the only remedy is to introduce a catheter as far as the canal })ermits; and then cut down upon its extremity from the fistula, so as to allow its passage into the bladder. A flexible catheter should then be introduced, and allowed to remain for three or four days, to prevent the recent so- lution of continuity from healing by primary union: but it ought not to be left longer than this, as its presence would occasion a degree of irritation, unfavourable to the ciu'e by granulating contraction. It the instrument is introduced occasionally, with the interval of a day or two, it will prevent any cliance of the canal becoming {^ain obstructed, and not interfere with tbe process of reparation. z