BONES. 167 by means of a nan’ow wooden splint, padded with lint, and sup- ported by a roller. In treating fracture of the proximal ])halanx of the fingers, it is difficult to keep the bone straight in the extended jwsition, owing to the effect of the flexors in drawing the broken ends downwards, and it will be found more convenient to fill the hollow of the hand with tow or some other soft material, and then bind down the fingers upon it The metacarpal and metatarsal bones are more frequently broken, when there is little displacement, but considerable swelling, pain, and crepitus, with preternatimal mobility of the corresponding finger or toe. A compress of tow, supported by a roller, prevents motion of the fractured extremities, which is all that the case requires. Bones of the Leg.—The fibula is apt to be fractured by twists of the foot outwards, and usually gives way from about an inch to an inch and a-half above its inferior extremity. ’ The eversion of the foot, and its mobility in a lateral direction, with the pain and cre- pitus caused by the broken sirnfaces, render the injury very distinct. The best mode of treatment is that devised by M. Dupuytren. It consists in placing on the inner side of the leg a tliick cushion, to which, after having been secm*ed in its place by means of a roller, a wooden splint, long enough to extend beyond both the foot and knee, is fastened ; and then applying a bandage at each extremity of the splint, so as to draw the foot and knee towards it, and thus effectually counteract the distortion which is caused by the weight of the limb, and the action of the peroneal muscles. Sometimes along with this fracture the foot is found displaced not to the side but backwards, in which case the heel is remarkably elongated and the instep shortened. After the parts have been adjusted by sui- table extension and pressure, the same apparatus is to he used with this difference, that the cushion and splint are placed in front, Dupuytren directed them to be placed behind, but I have not been able to attain the object desired in this way. When the fibula is fractured higher up, the caiise is generally direct violence, and the symptoms are so obscure, that, unless the examination l)e instituted early, before swelling comes on, it is difficult to decide whether the bone is broken or not The treatment requires merely a roller applied from the toes upwards, to prevent motion. The tibia is occasionally fractured, while the fibula remains en- tire, generally in consequence of strains caused by falling from a height. It gives way most frequently a few inches from the lower end. There is usually not much displacement, but great pain, and