MORTIFICATIOy. 33 cause, it must be remedied by a more wholesome regimen, and, if necessary, supported in the meantime by the administration of wine, spirits, and other stimuli of speedy operation. If any cause of lo- cal weakness exist in operation, it ought if possible to be removed; and the part which is weakened should be protected from all excite- ment If the principal artery of a limb, for instance, has been tied, or if the part has been weakened by exposm-e to intense cold, every sort of local stimulating application should be carefully avoided, wliile the system is at the same time j)rotected from excitement In the treatment of gangrena senilis, it is customary to prescribe large quantities of wine and spirits, with a coiTCsponding allowance of animal jellies and other nutritious articles of diet, and to employ, under the title of hot or invigorating dressings, various articles of a stimulating nature. Under this treatment the evil progresses, and even the opium that is often used, in compliance with Mr Pott’s advice, fails either to afford relief fi’om the pain, or to check the advance of the disease. It would appear, that, in this as on other occasions of deficient strength, wliile the power to act is lessened, the tendency to excitement is increased; and that, as cordials and stimulants cannot supply the vigour which is wanting, they merely increase the morbid disj^osition to inflammation. I have, therefore, advised, on theoretical as well as on practical grounds, that the diet of patients labomnng imder this disease should be strictly vegetable and chiefly farinaceous; that they should be confined to the ho- rizontal postm*e; and that the part affected should be enveloped in a thin linseed meal poidtice of gentle temperature. The only addition to these means required, until the cure be completed, is the use of mimiate of morphia, in doses proportioned to the patient’s sufferings. If, instead of weakness, the irritability depends on strong power of action, it ought to be lessened by bleeding, purging, tar- trate of antimony, and tobacco injections. When the mortification is completed, the slough should be cut away so fiu’ as is practicable, without cncrojicliing on the living parts, in order to diminish the fetor; barm poultices are sometimes used \rith this view, but they generally occasion uneasiness. The ■ chlorides of lime or soda in solution, diluted nitrous acid, or tho unguentum resinosum v\dth an equal quantity of oil of tmq)entine, are less objectionable applications; but notliing answers so well as a poultice of some soft sootliing substance, such as linseed meal. The extreme prostration of strength that accompanies the acute form of mortification, peremptorily demands diligent support finm c