157 AMPUTATION. stump than the one so obtained; wliile it appears, whether from the larger size of the bone as it approaches the knee, or the greater contraction of the muscles when cut low, that there is then more risk of an imperfect cure. The femoral artery should be subjected to manual compression in the groin, as the tommiquet might in this case he in the way of the knife or saw, and also prevent the mus- cles from retracting so much at the time as they would do after- M'ards. The surgeon, standing with his left hand towards the limb to be removed, should grasp the soft parts on the fore part of the thigh, so as to draw them as much as possible forward, next pass the knife from side to side, grazing, or rather guided close past, the surface of the bone, and then cut obliquely outwards, so as to form a large flap extending nearly to the patella- The posterior flap having been completed, the bone is denuded by forcible retraction of the soft parts by an assistant, wliile the knife, by repeated circular touches, divides every fibre that might oppose its free exposure; and, lastly, the bone being firmly held in the left hand, the saw is applied equally and steadily close to the retracted muscles. In tying the arteries after tliis and all amputations performed in the same mode, it is necessary to use great circumspection, as they are apt to be divided obliquely, and therefore may have their ori- fices only partially included in the ligatime. A few stitches should be introduced to keep the sides of the wound somewhat in their proper position, and a piece of lint moistened with cold water applied over the stmnp until the evening after the operation, when straps of isinglass or adhesive plaster ought to be employed to effect accu- rate coaptation of the edges. During recovery it is necessary to maintain moderate compression with a bandage, to prevent the soft parts withdrawing themselves from the bone. Moist lint covered with oiled silk is the best dressing, and the stitches need not be cut out until the union is nearly completed. The thigh nuiy be amputated at the hip-joint; but in this case the shock inflicted on the system is so great, and the wound which remains to be healed is so extensive, that the operation ought never to be performed unless the patient’s situation affords him no other chance of escape from certain and speedy death. There are various modes of operating, the choice of wliich must be regulated by the circumstances of the case, but in general the following one will be found the most eligible, in respect both to the ease of its perform- ance and to its residt. An assistant should grasp the limb as high as possible, pressing with his thumbs upon the artery in the groin, where it lies on the