249 MUSCLES. : the chest, seems, especially in weak relaxed individuals, so loosely connected with the bone, that a very slight force would be suffi- cient to cause its displacement downwards. Such a dislocation does accordingly sometimes happen, but so seldom that few practi- j tioners have an oj)portunity of seeing more than one or tw'O instances ; of it. The accident is easily recognized by the projection of the I lower extremity of the scapula; particularly when the arm is rais- : ed or separated from the side. All attem})ts to replace the muscle ■ in such cases have j)roved unavailing. And the only remedy that : can be advised, is a bandage to press down the bone, and promote . the formation of new adhesions between it and the muscle. Deramjements in the Nutritive aud Functional Actions of i Muscles. It has already been observed, that the muscular tissue is little disposed to morbid action, and though diseases sometimes extend into it from the neighbourhood, there is no part of the body in which alteration of structure so rarely originates. The aircinomatous and medullary sarcomatous degenerations sooner or later engage i every structure that lies near the one in which they originate, i and the muscles are not spared. Scrofulous tubercles occur in every tissue, but are rarely met with in the subsbince of mus- cles. Fibrous tumours have been met with in the muscles, but ! still more seldom. ! Absorj)tion sometimes occurs in muscles so as to occasion an I atrophy or wasting of them. This occurrence may be confined to ' a single muscle or ciffect a whole group of them. It is generally I induced by some irritation, as that of a blow or irritating wouncL I Tbe pricks sustained in dissecting have led to such consequences. 1 There does not seem to be any efficient meiins of preventing or re- moving this morbid action when it has commenced. The functional action of muscles depends very much upon the nervous system ; and derangement of it is to be regarded, in gene- ral, rather as symptomatic of changes in the condition of that im- portant system, than indicative of any alteration in the organs with which it is more immediately connected. It sometimes happens, however, that inordinate disposition to ‘ contract, aud also in other cases deficiency of contrac.'tile power are met with, when the muscles themselves appear to b(> the seat and cause of the disease. One muscle, or a grouj) of muscles, occa- sionally contracts with unusual energy, and either without any, or