PRINCIPLES or SURGERY. 468 integuments, the contraction should, if possible, be cut out, so that the lips of the wound may be united together directly. Encanthis is a tumour which sometimes presents itself at the Inner angle of the eyelids. It has a fleshy consistence, and tu- bercular surface. The colour is generally pale red, but sometimes very dark, and almost black. It grows from the caruncula lacry- malis, and by its pressure not only causes a disagreeable deformi- ty, but impedes vision, and also the motion of the eyelids. The remedy consists in excision, which may be performed either with a knife or scissors, care being taken to stretch the attachments of the tumour, by pulling it out with a hook or forceps, so as to prevent any chance of cutting the lacrymal ducts, which lead from the puncta to the sac. Encysted tumours are often met with in the eyelids, particularly the upper one. They are sometimes seated immediately under the skin, and may be removed by dividing it to the requisite ex- tent, and then dissecting out the cyst. IMuch more frequently they lie deeper, and adhere to the mucous lining of the eyelid, which is discovered by their immobility, and the appearance pre- sented by the inner surface of the eyelid when it is brought into view by being everted. The part with which the tumour is con- nect<;d has a yellowish colour, streaked with red, from the arbo- rescence of vessels over it, and seems flatter than the neighbour- ing surface. In this case the extirpation could not be accomplish- ed by cutting externally without making a breach through the eye- lid, and the proper method is, to remove an elliptical portion of the sac from within, squeeze out its contents, and then a])ply the nitrate of silver so as to hasten healthy granulation of the cavity. The best way of doing this is to evert the eyelid, transfix the stic with a hook, and then cut out a portion of it with a sharp-pointed knife. Cancerous ulceration sometimes affects the eyelids; and, as ex- cision of course affords the only effectual mode of remedy, it is important to determine how far these coverings of the eye may be removed without incvmring the necessity of removing the eye itself. It appears that the whole of the lower lid may be taken aw'ay with- out almost any inconvenience, and that a large part of the upper one may also be extirpated without depriving the eye of its neces- sary protection from external irritation. But if the whole of the upper eyelid required removal, it would he neccssiiry to take away the eye along with it, as the patient could not otherwise avoid s\if-