SUPPURATION. 59 I The contents of an abscess may be removed by the powers of the ssystem in two ways. They are sometimes simply absorbed into the limass of circulating fluids. This happens most frequently in the I cease of abscesses connected with the periosteum and lymphatic cglands, or those of the groin; and it is worthy of notice, that, when ssuch absorption takes place, no bad symptoms follow. It is now pgcnerally believed, that, when pus is fomed within reach of the c;a- iwities of vessels, as in a recent wound where the effusion of lymph Lis imperfect, or within the interior of veins, so that it may enter the c circulation without passing through the modifying operation of the r capillaries,—a portion is apt to gain admission, and, preserving its c chai’acters so as to be distinguishable by the microscope, become the jsom’ce of purulent deposits in other parts of the body. Another ex- [planation of such secondary purulent deposits, as they are called, lis, that, in certain local sup])urations, the whole mass of circulating 1 blood sustains an alteration in its condition predisposing it to secrete 11 pus; just as during inflammatory fevers, while lymph is throwm out tfrom the capillaries, it separates more readily than usual from the iblood during coagulation, and presents the huffy coat. As the glo- ! bides of the blood and pus differ but slightly from each other, it is (easy to conceive that some slight change, attending tliis morbid con- t dition, may occasion the appearance which has been thought to de- mote the presence of pus in the blooiL Much more frequently the I pressure of the matter causes absorption of the surrounding parts, and, in conformity with the general law that those yield to it most I readily which lie nearest the surface, the covering of the abscess be- (comes tliinner and thinner, so that the skin alone remaining, it pro- ■ jects from the distension of the fluid, and becomes so thin as to allow I tlie colour of the pus to be perceived through it The abscess is : then said to point, and soon afterwards, the absorption still continu- i ing, an aperture takes place, which allows the contents to escape. A discharge of matter issues from the opening for some time after- ' wards, but gradually becomes thinner, and diminishes in quantity I until a cicatrix is formed. It is generally stated that this process of cure depends on a j grow’th of granulations from the whole surface of the cavity, which i is thus gradually filled up. But if this were the case, it is plain I that there ought to be a permanent solid enlargement of the part t concerned ; for pus does not proceed from the breaking down or ! softening of the natural tissues, as was formerly supposed, and is (merely secreted by the vessels into the interstices between them. It separates the muscles, condenses the cellular texture, and ele-