JOINTS. 231 object of this operation might be attained more safely by merely dislodging the moveable body from the joint by puncturing the skin with a needle or narrow-bladed knife, and opening the synovial membrane by a subcutaneous incision, through which the body could be pushed into the cellular substance. I tried this method in one case with a satisfactory result. The patient was a man about 40, of a very irritable constitution, admitted into the Infir- mary on account of a cartilage in the knee, which completely dis- abled him for any sort of active employment. Superficial suppu- ration took place a few days after the dislodgement; and it being necessary to make an opening for the tbscharge of matter, I took the o])portunity of extracting the cartilage. The joint remained free from disturbance. The best way of proceeding would pro- bably be not to wait for suppuration, but to divide the skin so soon as tlie wound in the synovial membrane has had time to heal. ]\fr Hey of Leeds, as a substitute for excision, which, though performed with every precaution, must always be considered a ha- zardous proceeding, suggested the application of pressiu-e to the joint, so as to prevent the cartilaginous body from moving about as usual. He has recorded several cases in which this practice proved completely sxiccessful, the moveable substances, though they still remain percej)tible, ceasing to occasion any inconvenience. The dropsical effusion which attends the disease opposes or alto- gether prevents effectual compression with this view, and therefore leeching, discutient lotions, or bbsters, according to the circum- stances of the Ciise, must in the first instance be employed to pro- mote absorption, after which a bandage or laced cap surrounding tbe joint ought to be constantly worn. The operation ought not to be rcsoi-tcd to unless this palliative treatment has been tiled without success, and the disease is productive of serious inconveni- ' ence to the patient. : Gelatinous Degeneration of the Synovial Membrane. The synovial membrane is liable to a process of morbid nutri- tion, which changes its natural structure into a soft greyish-yellow gelatinous mass, varying in thickness from a line to half an inch ' or more. This alteration usually occurs in individuals who are ; disposed to scrofulous action, whence it is generally named the i Scrofulous affection of the synovial membrane. Though met with j at all periods of life, it most frequently commences in young per- sons before the age of puberty, and is generally induced by some i