3 INFLAMMATION. eiFusion into tlie interstices of the structui’e concerned. Inflamma- tion of the conjunctiva affords one of the best examples of these changes. The redness varies considerably in shade. It is generally bright and florid, lijce that of arterial blood, but it often has a yellow hue, and still more frequently is dark, or almost purple. The yellow tinge is most frequently observed along with derangement of the biliary secretion, as in erysipelas; but the dark colour depends on diflferent circumstances, the discrimination of wliich is of great im- portance in practice. It was formerly thought a certain indication of putrid tendency, or proneness to die from weakness, and an unquestionable indication for administering wine, bark, and cordials. It is now observed to depend frequently on obstruction of the re- spiratory function, preventing the blood from undergoing its pro- per change. It is seen also when the venous circulation of an in- flamed part is impeded. Swelling.—This symptom depends partly on the enlargement of the vessels, but chiefly on eflPusion of the serous or albuminous parts of the blood, or the blood itself, into the cellular texture. It con- sequently varies with the vascularity and laxity of the tissue con- cerned. Thus inflammation of the conjunctiva is attended with great swelling, while that of the cornea is accompanied by hardly any. Heat.—This is a very characteristic symptom of inflammation, and, together with the redness, has no doubt led to the choice of a title for expressing it, since in all languages the term used for this purpose denotes burning. Like the last mentioned symptom, the sensation of heat varies with the part affected. It is most remark- able in the skin, and in some parts of the mucous membrane, as the urethra. It was formerly believed that the patient’s feeling of heat de- pended always on a real and proportionate elevation of tempera- ture ; but the application of a thermometer at once proves this opi- nion to be incorrect, John Hunter investigated the subject, and came to the following conclusions: 1. That the heat of an inflamed part is not commensiuate with the patient’s feelings. 2. That it does not exceed the standard or central heat of the individual. 3. That the greatest increase of temperature takes place in those parts which are farthest from the centre, and naturally coldest* Thus inflam- mation of the scrotum, induced by laying open the tunica vaginalis, • Hunter on Inflammation, p. 296, 4to.