PELVIS. .339 continued sti’aining at stool, and in adults, generally violent exer- tions, as in lifting weights on the back. Some locid irritation, as that of ascarides in the rectum, or stone in the bladder, is often concerned in producing the disease in young persons, especially when it attains a great extent. The partial prolapsus, which is usually met with in adults, depends upon the presence of hemor- rhoids. An attentive consideration of the circumstances, which have just been mentioned, will indicate the preventive and remedial measures that promise to be most beneficial. In treating the complete pro- lapsus of children, it is necessary, in the first place, to remove any local source of irritation that may be discovered to exist; and, should there not appear to be some such exciting cause, the patient must be prevented from straining long or violently at stool, by hav- ing his bowels kept in an easy state, and by being placed on an elevated seat, wliich will not permit his feet to reach the ground, and consequently render it difficult for him to bend his body forwards, which makes the pressure of the diaphragm act more dii’ectly on the contents of the pelvis. The partial protrusion that occurs in adults, requires for its remedy the removal of hemorrhoidal excrescences, whether external or internal,—the prevention of constipation by suitable regimen and medicine,—and the use of injections thrown into the rectum. When there is much relaxation, and consequent tendency to prolapsus, it will be observed, that the integuments round the margin of the anus, when the gut has been replaced, are not tense and smooth, but loose, and thrown into radiating folds. M. Dupuytren proposed to cut away some of these folds, and, by thus diminishing the extent of the redundant skin, while consolida- tion of the remainder was induced by the adhesive process follow- ing the inflammation excited by the operation, radically cui’e the disease. ISIr Hey of Leeds with a similar view removed the whole of the loose skin. This excision is easily perfoinued, and though not so effectual as might be desired, ought to be tried when other means have failed in affording relief. Scissors curved on the side are the most convenient instruments for the purpose, and superfi- cial dressings ought to be applied after the operation. Sometimes the ring of the prolapsed membrane, from inflaming, becomes per- manently protruded, and the patient, who suffers constant pain, can neither walk nor stand. In these circumstances, the whole of the protrusion may be cut way with perfect safety and complete relief,