JOINTS. 233 iieeclies, cupping, fomentations, and general remedies, if the severi- iiy of the symptoms seem to require them, must be promptly and tfreely resorted to. In promoting absorption, the general principles which have been already explained will indicate the proper course •to be pursued. Pressure, ointments of iodine with mercury, and ' lotions, afford the most powerful means for this purpose. Mr Scott i<has lately brought the advantages of pressm-e very prominently for- s«ward, and led many people to believe that in this, as well as some other chronic affection of the joints, it may he deemed an almost certain remedy. Sir B. Brodie seems to have gone into an oppo- =isite extreme in regarding the disease as incurable, and all the re- umedial measimes proposed for its removal as at best only palliative. [Pressure is apt to occasion pain, and by thus exciting irritation, igive rise to inflammation, so as to hasten on the malady to its last ■stage; it ought, therefore, to be employed with great caution. The l'l:)est plans of treatment are, after subduing any inflammatory symp- ttoras that happen to exist, to apply pledgets of lint, covered with aan ointment composed of camphorated mei’curial ointment and hy- ililrioflate of potass, and surround the limb and joint with a com- imou roller, applied so firmly as to effect the desired degree of com- I'jwession ; or to keep the joint constantly moist with some discutient •lotion. The former method is best suited to cases of a truly chro- nic kind, and the latter to those in which there is some tendency ' to excited action. Mr Scott recommends slips of plaster instead of the roller, and changes them not oftener than once in several ■ weeks. But this practice seems objectionable on several grounds, • since inflammation may thus be very easily overlooked, and allow- ed to proceed the length of suppuration before it is discovered; and iif things go on well, it is obvious that in a very short time the di- minution of the swelling must render the bandage loose and inef- ficient Any degree of pressure may be effected with the splints and roller ; it may be readily changed; and being frequently removed, prevents the inconveniences which have just been mentioned. The joint should always be restrained from motion by a splint, which j may be made of leather or pasteboard, or iron wire, covered with chamois leather. The last mentioned splint, which I have found ex- tremely useful in treating affections of the joints, may be easily constructed by bending a piece of strong wire to the shape of the limb, so as to extend along both sides of it—and then joining as |many pieces transversely as seem necessary to give sufficient ^strength—after which the apparatus merely rerpiires its leather co-