295 THORAX. the disease advances, cavities filled with a soft friable grayish-yel- low or brown substance, or thin imperfectly fonned purulent mat- ter. Sometimes the striated appearance produced by the radiating fibrous bands is strikingly marked, while at others, though the car- cinomatous texture does not form a capsule, the confines of the morbid formation are very distinctly cii’cumscribed,—and there seems to be a mixture of the bro\vn and white dense textiue ap- proaching to a granular consistence, and containing small cells fil- led with semifluid matter. The distinction between this and the more difiused form of carcinoma should be carefully observed, as it affords some assistance in deciding on the prognosis as to the dura- tion of recovery after the tumomr has been removed. When the lymphatic glands suffer carcinomatous degeneration, the morbid structure always assumes the capsulai’ form, unless the disease should be very far advanced, and adhesions to the neighbouring parts have taken place. In this case radiating bands may be dis- covered, but hardly with the same distinctness that they usually present themselves, when the disease originates in the substance of the mamma. The cure of carcinoma, whether in the state of scirrhus or can- cer, by external or internal remedies, being confessedly impractica- ble, it does not seem necessary to mention the various means that have been ineffectually employed for this purpose. Leeching, sooth- ing fomentations, and attention to the general health, alleviate the uneasy sensation of scirrhus, and delay its progress towards ulcera- tion. Poultices of hemlock, and Powder’s solution ' of arsenic, di- minish the agonizing pain of cancer. Solutions of chloride of lime or soda destroy the fetor which proceeds from its discharge, and more or less temporary amendment results from the application of vimious ointments, ])ow'ders, and washes, which can never be pre- scribed wdth any certainty of benefit, and must be frequently chang- ed to obbiin even the slight and transitory improvement that they at best afford. The only method of giving effectual relief is to re- move the morbid structure with the knife, the depth and connec- tions of the affected parts rendering other means* of extirpation, such as caustic and the ligature, inadmissible. Few questions in surgery have occasioned more discussion than that which has been, and still is, agitated in regard to the propriety of operating. It is admitted that relapse frequently occurs after excision has been per- formed ; but much ditterence of opinion exists as to the chance of its doing so, and the consequent advantage of the operation. It