PELVIS. 357 from the bull) of the urethra in the direction which the canal takes from that point to the bladder, in consequence of the elevation oi the vesical extremity by the swelling of the prostate. If the cathe- ter is flexible the stilet ought to be curved in a similar way; and by withdrawing it a little when the beak of the instrument has pas- sed the bulb, the curvature of the tube may be increased so as to favour the infroduction. AVhen much difficulty has been experi- enced in introducing the catheter, it should be allowed to remain in the bladder for a day of two. Various medicines have been em- ployed to induce absorption of the tumour, as iodine and the mu- riate of lime, but no real advantage has ever been derived from these means. It has also been proposed to cut out the enlarged prostate; but this ])roceeding is so inconsistent with the dictates of rational surgery, that the objections to it need not be taken into consideration. Earthy concretions are not unfrequently found in the ducts of the prostate. They are generally of a very small size, which only in rare cases equals that of a pea, of a rounded figure, and reddish- brown colour. Their composition is invariably phosphate of lime, with a little animal matter. They usually exist in great numbers together; being either imbedded in the substance of the gland, or collected into groups which occupy the dilated ducts. The symptoms which they occasion are not well ascertained, since their existence is seldom known until it is iliscovered after death by dis- section. No means can be employed either for their prevention or remedy; unless they should be distinctly perceptible from the rec- tum, when an incision may be made in the perineum, similar to that which will be particularly explained in regard to the extraction of stones from the bladder, so as to afford vent for their escape. Such an operation, however, would not be warrantable, uidess the patient were sufiering great and increasing inconvenience from the pain of the calculi. On one occasion having cut into the membranous paid • of the urethra to remove a concretion that hiy there, I found the prostate hollowed out into a cavity containing calculi, which were extracted with success. Extravasation of Urine, and Pumturc of the Bladder. When retention of mane, from whatever cause it may proceed, is not remedied, the jiressure occasioned by the confined fluid at length induces idccrative absorption, and forms a breach which allows the urine to escape into the surrounding cellular substance.