nilNCIPLES Ol' SUllGEUr. )iC)2 The biigs vary greatly in thickness, ami their contents ai-e no less dissimilar in respect of consistence, being sometimes peifect- ly watery, but in general gelatinous. The disease occurs most frequently at the wrist and ankle, the extensor tendons being af- fected in the former, and the flexors in the latter situation. Fe- males arc more liable to it than males. It seldom produces incon- venience, except from the deformity which it occasions, hut some- times the i>atient-complains of weakness in the limb. It is gene- rally referred to blows or strains, hut there is nothing certainly- known as to the causes of its production. The most simple and effectual mode of treatment is to rupture the hag by })ressure applied externally, and force its contend into the surrounding cellular texture. For this purpose some recom- mend that the ganglion should he struck a smart blow with a hook or similar body ; but this is a violent and uncertain metliod, and it is much better to exert a steady pressure on the tumom- by means of the two thumbs acting in concert. To ])romote absorj)tion, a com])ress and bandage should he a])])lied for some days after the operation. If it should be found impossible to rupture the hag, owing to its strength, the best plan is to introduce a naiTow sharj)- edged instrument through the skin, and open the sac, after which its contents may be s(jiieezed into the cellular substance, or dis- charged externally. The instrument used for this j)urpose may be a common surgical needle, or a couching-needle, or what answers best of all, the small knife used for cutting the iris in making artificial pupil. To make the eflPect more certain, a blister ought to be applied immediately after the contents of the bag have been evacuated. Such being the different methods of treatment which will be found most eftectual and sufficient for the remedy of the disease in all its forms, it wouhl be useless to detail the other measures which have been recommended, and are still occasionally employed. Of these continued jjressure, effected by means of a ])iece of money or similar solid compress ffistencd over the swelling, repeated blistering, inunction of tai’trate of antimony ointment, seton, incision, and excision, are the most deserving of notice, hut, for the reason mentioned, need not he more j)articularly consi- dered. Bursce Mucosce. The Bursce MucoscB) like other serous structures, are subject to