MOUTH. 479 If it is determined to remove the sore, there can be no hesitation in choosing excision as the best mode of doing so. Caustic of dif- ferent kinds has often been used, but, besides being tedious and painful in producing its effect, it is always aj)t to aggravate the dis- ease by eradicating it imperfectly, and irritating the part which is allowed to remain. The method of excision generally followed, is to cut out a triangular or V shaped piece of the lip, by making an incision obliquely downwards on each side of the ulcer, so that the one may meet the other at an angle sufficiently acute for permit- ting the cut surfaces to be brought together and united, as in the operation for hare-lip. When the cancer is of no great extent, and the lip possesses considerable fulness, this procedure is very conve- nient, and renders the resulting deformity little perceptible. But when a large part of the surface of the lip is affected, there would then be removed so great a portion of the sound structure as must prevent or very much impede the union of the cut edges. In such cases, the method proposed by M. Richerand is certainly to be pre- ferred. It consists in cutting away the morbid part alone with curved scissors, after which the skin and mucoiis membrane may be stitched together. Ulcers extending over almost the whole sur- face of the lip may in this way be completely excised, with hardly any deformity or inconvenience. On all occasions the simgeon should take care that the whole of the induration surrounding the sore is removed, and he ought to abstain from operating when the glands under the chin, or in the neck, are affected. Tongue. The Tongue is liable to ulceration in consequence of chronic derangement of the digestive organs,—the injurious effect which is produced on the system by the excessive use of mercury,—and the influence of local irritation, such as that proceeding from sharp points of the teeth. In the first of these cases, the iJcers are ge- nerally small, round, and yellowish-coloured ; they are seated chiefly on the edge and inferior surface of the organ, which usually appears somewhat swollen and marked with the shape of the teeth. Their remedy consists in an alterative course of diet and medicine, together with some astringent application, such as powdered borax or alum. The ulcers that are met with in persons whose constitu- tions are vitiated by mercury, present a bluish colour, and arc ex- tremely irregular in shape. They affect the edge of the tongue especially, and appear in the form of chaps or superficial excoria-