18 PllINCIPLES OF SURGERY. arm. The humeral artery lies under the vein at this point, but runs no danger of being wounded, unless the lancet is used with imdue force. The only artery that can be injured in a natural dis- tribution of the vessels is the humeral; but the arteries of the fore- {uun fi*equently take a superficial coimse, wliich makes them assume the appearance of veins; whence it is always proper to ascertain, before introducing the lancet, that the vessel is really a vein by its want of pulsation. The cutaneous nerves are so small and inti- mately connected with the veins, that they cannot be avoided by any precaution; and there is reason to believe, from the acute pain occasionally complained of, that they are not unfrequently di- vided ; but bad consequences seldom if ever result, either from this source or the alleged pricking of tendons, which was formerly much dreaded.* When any local inconvenience results from the opera- tion, it is now thought to depend upon inflammation of the skin, cellular substance, or vein, owing to peculiar irritability of the pa- tient’s constitution, or the manner in which the surgeon has inflict- ed or dressed the wound. These accidents will be best avoid- ed by perfonning the operation as has been described above; and when they do occur, ought to be treated according to the princi- ples which will be explained hereafter, in connection with the tex- tures liable to injury. The external jugular may be rendered sufficiently tense for being opened, by pressing on it with the thumb a little above the clavicle. The lancet may then be introduced in the same way as has been recommended ; and if the incision Ikj made in the direction of the sterno-mastoid muscle, it wdll not only ensiue the division of the superjacent fibres of the plati/sma myoidcs, but also have the })ropcr degree of obliquity in respect to the coats of the vein. The edge of the ciq), which is to receive the blood, being held tightly below the aperture will determine the blood to flow tlirough it, and when a sufficient quantity has been obtained, its further escaj)e will be ejisily j)reventcd by a])})lying a small compress of lint, which should be retained by two crossing slips of adhesive ])laster, rather tlian by a bandage encircling the neck, as this might reinduce the bleeding. The vena saphena may be readily oj)ened where it passes over the inner ankle; and in order to ])romote the flow of blood it is usual to place the foot in warm wah'r, the discoloration of which is held to indicate the quantity of blood abstracted ; but as this measure is • Dfiijamin Bell’s System of Surgerj’, Vol. iii. p. 184, 7tli cd.