263 TENDONS. dropsical effusion. The exciting cause is usually some local irrita- tion ; and when of an indu'ect kind, such as cold, its effect in pro- ducing the disease seems in general referable to a predisj)osition of the system, depending on weakness or some peculkrity of constitu- tion. If the membrane is merely distended, and has not suffered any thickening or alteration of structure, blistering, succeeded by pressure, readily induces absorption of the fluid. If the sac is thick and indurated, these means often prove insufficient, and it is found necessary to puncture the swelling, so as to let its contents escape, after which, a blister having been applied, the raw surface is dress- ed with iodine and camphorated mercmdal ointment, pressime being effected at the same time, and under this treatment a radical cure is accomplished. Sometimes, along with the fluid, the Scic contains a number of loose bodies, occasionally quite similar in all resjiects to the moveable cartilages found in joints, but more frequently of a less distinctly organized structure, appearing to consist merely of indurated lymph. They are of a yellow or brownish colour, tough consistence, and variable size, from that of a millet-seed to that of a field bean. It is obviously necessary that, in such cases, the puncture must be large enough to let the bodies escape, after which the treatment ought to be conducted on the principles already explained; and if it should be found impos- sible to subdue the disease by milder .measures, the opening into the sac must be tlilated, caustic applied to its surface, and obli- teration of the cavity by granulation thus induced. When, in such circumstances, the sac is within reach of tlie knife, it may be cut out at once. The lymph wliich is effused from the inner sur- face of the bursa, sometimes becomes organized in the form of thick bands stretebing across the cavity. In such cases, after the means for producing absorption have been tried and failed, and the pa- tient insists upon having the disease removed, there is no choice except betw'een the knife and caustic. Bursas, whether in a sound state or one of clironic disease, are subject to acute inflammation in consecjuence of local irritation, es- pecially that of bruises. The symptouis are severe pain, aggravat- ed by pressiue or motion, bright redness of the superjacent skin, and more or less swelling. The inflammation usually terminates either in resolution or effusion of lymph or serum, but sometimes goes on to suppuration. The surrounding cellular substance then also hecomes inflamed, and a diffused abscess is the result Leeches,