359 PELVIS. then the patient may escape the dangerous consequences of urinous effusion which have been described; but such an occurrence is too rare to afford any reasonable ground for expecting relief fi’om the unaided powers of the system, or withholding the means that effect evacuation more safely. These means consist in puncturing the bladder, so as to draw off its contents without allowing them to en- ter the cellular substance. If the surgeon possesses the requisite tact for introducing instruments into the bladder through the ure- thra, and has the treatment of the case from its commencement, he will very rarely, perhaps never, be under the necessity of resorting to this puncture. But should he not be able to draw off the water by the catheter, either from his own want of dexterity, or from the existence of obstacles arising from mismanagement or previous or- ganic alteration of the passage, as stricture, or enlargement of the prostate, complicated mth a lacerated, softened, swelled, and bleed- ing state of the lining membrane, caused by forcible attempts to pass an instrument, there can be no hesitation in having recoiu’se to the operation. Punctm*e of the bladder, however performed, is always attended with more or less danger of urinous infiltration; but a doubtful remedy is better than none; and there are few states of disease more hopeless than complete retention of urine, permitted to follow its own course. There are three methods of puncturing the bladder, 1. above the pubis; 2. by tbe perineum; .3. from the rectum. The opera- tion above the pubis is performed by making an incision an inch and a half long from the symphysis upwards, exactly in the mesial plane, and then separating the edges of the recti, or rather pyra- midal muscles, with the fingers and a little assistance from the knife, and lastly pushing a trocar into the distended bladder, which can now be distinctly felt. In order to avoid transfixing the neck, it is necessary to direct the instrument not perpendicularly, but obliquely backwards, from the point where it enters the cavity be- hind the pubis. The rigidity of a silver tube is apt to occasion in- jurious irritiition, particularly as it must be long, and deeply intro- duced, to prevent any risk of its esctipc from the contraction of the coats of the bladder; but the cannula must not be withdrawn without substituting some other channel for carrying away the urine, which otherwise would be very apt to enter tbe cellular sub- stance. A piece of flexible catheter answers very conveniently for the ■purpose, and the exchange should not be effected before the end of at least twenty-foui’ hours. The patient should lie on his side, in-