76 nuNcirLEs oi- suiigery. patient the benefit of the chance that is thus afforded; and, of course, the sooner that this is done the better, after tlie nature of the malady is ascertained. The prospect of permanent relief seems most favourable when the disease is seated in the testicle and bones, and most hopeless when the eyeball is affected. Nearly connected with tliis kind of growth is that which has been named Melanosis. The title was applied by Laennec to tumours pos- sessing the same soft brain-like structiu'e, but differing in regard to their colour, which, instead of being white, was either green or inter- sj)ersed with red, dark-brown, or black. In other respects, the dis- eases resemble each other so closely as hardly to require separate designations, affecting the same parts, following the same course, and requiring the same treatment. It may be remarked, however, that the morbid tendency, as shown by extension, reproduction, or simultaneous formation at distant parts of the body, is not, in gene- ral, nearly so active in the melanotic as in the ordinary form of ce- rebriform sarcoma, and that the prospect of benefit from removal by operation is consequently not so unfavourable. Scrofulous Sarcoma.. The morbid formation usually called Scrofula, presents different appearances, according to the tissue affected. In general, it con- stitutes rounded masses or tubercles, as they are named, wliich con- sist of a greyish-yellow', gritty, semi-organized-looking substance. It sometimes is not condensed and circumscribed in this way, but exists in a diffused state, so as to produce more or less change in the structure concerned. In the bones it is confined to the can- cellated texture, the interstices of w'hich it fills. In the synovial membrane it produces a remarkable thickening, softening, and con- version into a sort of gelatinous consistence. In the hmgs, Ijtu- phatic and mesenteric glands, subcutaneous tissue, brain and thira mater, it occurs in the tubercular form. It is not attended with pain, and hardly produces any inconvenience, except by its bulk causing deformity, or pressing injuriously on important organs. The morbid formations generally remain stationary for a longer or shorter period after their comj)letion, and tlien are either ab- sorbed, or, tis more frequently happens, suppxmate, so as to consti- tute abscesses, containing thin sero-purulent fluid, w'ith fhikes of scrofulous matter or lymph floating in it. When the matter is discharged, the restorative ])rocess ad^•ances slowly and imperfectly; indolent sinuses or weak ulcers almost always result; and ow'ing • 3