INTKODUCTOllY LECTURE, n few subjects of surgical practice more perplexing tlian tumours of the breast. Indeed, you will see to-day a young woman who has come more than two hundred miles for relief from a fibrous growth, in consequence of her medical attendant—a very experienced and intelligent practitioner—entertaining doubts as to the nature of her case. In short, gentlemen, you will find that the great difficulty of practice is not in doing what is necessary, but in discovering what the circumstances of the case require, and ascertaining, in the first place, the seat and nature of whatever derangement has taken place. In accomplishing these grand essential steps of an accurate diagnosis, you must be guided by the signs or symptoms which result from the morbid state of each part affected. Most of them are recognised by sight and touch, but some of them also by the car and nose. According to the facility with which they are noticed, discriminated, and appreciated, as evidence of Avliat is wrong, does the practitioner readily and surely ascer- tain the assistance which it is requisite that he should afford the patient. But although the indications are present, it does not follow that they make an impression on the mind so as to attract attention. You have all, doubtless, often heard or made the reply, “ I must have seen, but did not observe,” the object in question,—the meaning of which is, that though within the sphere of vision, it did not make an impression on the sense of sight,—and it is the same with regard to the other sources of information. How, then, you are now prepared to ask, are we to acquire the power of observing the signs which arc' to guide us in our progress ? And here I may refer you to the invai-iable practice of all persons who desire to observe with nicety and precision the distinctive characters of different objects. In all pursuits, professions, and employments, which require for their successful exercise that this should be done, you will find tliat the power of doing it is always obtained in the same way,— namely, by careful examination of the circumstances to be dis- tinguished, so as to fully understand and become familiar with them. The more familiarly acquainted with any object, the more readily you recognise it; and it is this familiarity with symptoms of disease which enables an experienced practitioner to judge quickly and correctly as to the condition of his patient. You will now be able to see why hospital attendance has been enjoined as an essential part of your professional study.