294 PRlNCirLES or SURGERY. and depressed. The patient complains of occasional lancinating pain, shooting through the tumour, and from it in various direc- tions; and she generally betrays, by her greenish-yellow com- plexion, that depraved state of health, which, whether it be a cause or consequence, or partly both, as is most probable, -usually attends such local affections. The course of the morbid process. If it be allowed to proceed, is to engage the glands of the axilla, which become enlarged and indurated; to form ill-conditioned matter in the substance of the carcinomatous masses; to evacuate the con- tents of these abscesses by ulcerative absorption of the supeiqacent parts; and thus give rise to sores wliich prove truly incurable can- cers. The pain and discharge that ensue occasion more or less exhaustion of the patient, but are seldom the immediate cause of death, as she generally dies before they produce this effect; and existence is often terminated in such cases so suddenly and unex- pectedly, as to suggest the suspicion of a poisonous influence pro- ceeding fi'om the disease. Some time before death, the patient often complains of what she believes to be rheumatic pains, gene- rally extending through the whole body, but being particularly severe in the arm of the affected side, wdiich is often cedematous, numb, and powerless, in a much greater degree than can be well accounted for by the pressure of the swelled axillary glands; and the fatal event is usually preceded for a few days by sickness, loss of appetite, and extreme w eakness. Effusion into the cavities of the chest is occasionally the cause of death. The skin sometimes shows a great tendency to assume the cbscased action, either being pri- marily affected with it, or, while the gland is undergoing this mor- bid change, becoming studded at various distances with flat carci- nomatous tubercles, the interstices between which retain the cha- racters of health, or are tliick and red. The disease vai'ies gi'eatly in the rapiebty of its progress, according to circumstances, wdiich seldom admit of being satisfactorily distinguished, but it generally proceeds more slowly in advanced periods of life. The appearances which are presented by the section of carcino- matous tumoiu’s, though they all agree in some respects, differ con- siderably in others. There is ahvays more or less of a very dense, almost cartilaginous structure, of a mixed browmish-gray and blu- ish-white colour, which exists either in the form of compact masses, with bands of a similar substance, that radiate from the centre,— or in that of capsules, smooth and distinct externally, but gradual- ly softening tow'ards the interior. Within this texture there are, as