51 GRANULATION. varnished; a viscid tenacious fetid discharge; a circular or oval figure, with little irregularity; and tliick white edges, seeming as if composed of accumulated cuticle. There is no circumscribed hardness in the immediate neighbourhood of the ulcer; but there - is always considerable diffused swelbng of the limb in which it is seated. The swelling is not soft and yielding like that of common oedema, but firm and incompressible. The pain is very variable. There is no appearance of cicatrix, so long as the sore retains its indolent characters. Ulcers of this description are confined almost exclusively to the legs of people advanced beyond middle age, and constitute a very troublesome subject of surgical practice, as they ai’e very apt to re- cur after being healed. Some people, partly from the fear of in- jiu-ing the system by suppressing a long-continued discharge, and partly from the despair of effecting a permanent cure, bestow little care on the treatment of these complaints; but this is wrong, since the most unpromising cases, under proper management, are often remedied; and there is hardly any disease which interferes more seriously with the patient’s comfort, or unfits him more for the ac- tive duties of life. It is cliiefly met with in the labouring poor, and often produces the greatest misery, by impeding or altogether preventing the exertions which are required for maintaining the pa- tient and his family. The treatment generally thought the most useful, is rest in the horizontal posture, conjoined with pressm-e. The merit of fully establishing the advantage of pressure, is due to Messrs Whately and Ba}mton, the former of whom recommended a calico or flan- nel bandage, to be tightly applied from the toes upwards to the knee; and the latter, in addition to this means, to make the com- pression more effectual, employed slips of adhesive plaster, an inch or two broad, and long enough not only to encircle the limb, but to cross each other far enough to obtain a firm hold when drawn round the leg, and across the sore. The limb having been shaved, a slip of plaster is applied an inch or two below the sore ; then an- other a little farther up, so as to leave a third of the former one ex- posed ; then another in the same way; and so on, until not only the ulcer, but an inch of the skin above it is covered. Lastly, a cotton roller, three inches broad, and five yards long, is applied from the toes upwards. Pledgets of lint, covered with simple oint- ment, or compresses of tow, are often interposed between the plasters I and bandage; but this is unnecessary. If the patient complains of