397 GKNITAL ORGANS. swelling of the prepuce or parts contained within it Permanent narrowness of the opening may be either congenital, or caused by the contraction that occurs diu-ing the cicatrization of ulcers. It is inconvenient on many accounts; and in particular, exposes the in- dividual to an aggravated form of all the diseases which affect the parts concerned. The temporary phymosis is a very common consequence of gonorrhoea, sores on the inner surface of the pre- })uce, and warts. The swelling is attended w'ith redness and pain, and is not only distressing in this way, but reacts on the disease which occasioned it, and renders the symptoms more severe, as well as the treatment more difficult. The treatment of permanent phymosis requires dilatation of the orifice by incision, and this may be effected in various w^ays. Cir- cumcision, or the removal of the extremity of the prepuce with a knife or scissors, is easily performed, but allows an extensive sepa- ration of the skin or mucous lining of the prepuce, \inless a num- ber of stitches are introduced all the way round, in which case erec- tions of the penis are apt to excite great irritation. It sometimes happens, particularly in advanced age, that the prej)uce becomes greatly elongated, thickened, and hardened, and then this mode of proceeding is the best, indeed the only one practicable. In ordi- nary circumstances, a better plan is to slit open the prepuce, simply inserting one stitch at the termination of the incision, which should be nearly at the neck of the glans, to prevent sej)aration of the cut edges. The unseemly flaps that are thus formed in the first in- stance, soon suffer a diminution from interstitial absorption, which renders them hardly perceptible. The o])eration is most easily performed by means of scissors; and the best situation for cutting is in the mesial plane on the lower surface. Cold applications should be used for forty-eight hours, during which, and for a day or two longer, if necessary, the patient must be subjected to the antiphlogistic regimen. Ur Dieffenbach of Berlin ]iroposed a method of curing phymosis without depriving the glands of a pre- putial covering. This proposal is grounded on the fact, that the skin of the prepuce is always sufficiently wide, and that the contrac- tion depends entirely upon the internal membrane. If, therefore, a circular ring be removed from the orifice, the skin may be drawn back so as to expose the glands covered by the mucous membrane, and this investment may then be cut away with the scissors as far back as seems necessary, after which notliing remains to be done but to connect, by means of sutures, the two cut edges of the exter-