170 nUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. the lower extremity being almost always drawn up behind the su- ])erior one, together with robition of the foot outwards, owing to the weight of the limb. The only cases in which I have found the lower end anterior to the upper one, happened from direct vio- lence. As the thigh is covered before as well as behind with muscles, which extend beyond both the joints at its extremities, and are nearly equal in strength, it is obvious that no position can have the effect, as in the leg, of relaxing them on one side without stretching them on the other. Various mechanical contrivances, therefore, • have been invented for permanently extending the limb, of which the long splint of Desault far surpasses all the others in simplicity and efficiency. It is merely a board about four inches in breadth, long enough to extend from the false ribs a few inches beyond the sole of the foot, and having at each end two holes for the attach- ment of bandages. The patient’s bed having been prepared, by being rendered smooth and firm, his limb is extended until it cor- responds in length and direction with the sound one ; then a paste- board splint, properly softened and j)added, is aj)plied on the inner side of the thigh, extending from the perineum to beyond the knee, and another on the outer side, reaching from the trochanter major as far down as the former. These splints being secm’ed by four or five looped bandages, the board, wrapped in a sheet or tablecloth, of which enough should be left to smroimd the thigh, is placed alongside the limb, and a handkerchief passed under the perineum, is tied to its upper end, while the foot is secured to the lower one. Retraction is thus effectually prevented; and when the unfolded ])art of the wra])per which lies under the limb is brought over, and fastened to the sj)lint, a handkerchief at the same time being tied round the patient’s body to prevent any lateral displacement of the a])para- tus, the fracture is rendered perfectly steady (Plate VI. Fig. 1 and 2). The })lan of treatment recommended by ^Ir Pott, which was to • lay the limb on its outer side with the knee bent, and merely apj)ly two pasteboard splints to ])revent the ends of the bone from moving, is very objectionable. It affords no extension, and renders a per- manent eversion of the limb almost unavoidable, owing to the pa- tient turning on his back during the cure, and thus causing the bones to unite in such a manner, so as to ])roduce this effeeb The doidde inclined plane, of various forms and materials, is much used, arid has the siinction of high authority. It is alleged to relax the muscles by a bent position of the joints, without occiisioning the in-