PlUNCiri.KS OF SUllGEllY. 35S This rupture, as it is improperly termed, usually takes place im- mediately above the obstruction ; and as most cases of complete re- tention depend on strictm*e at the bulb, the aperture generally oc- curs in the membranous part of the urethra. When the bladder gives way in such circumstances, it does so most frequently near the neck, where there is no covering of peritoneum. The urine no sooner begins to flow tbrough the preternatural channel, than the patient experiences relief from the distress he previously suf- fered, and can hardly be persuaded that he is not making water in the ordinary way. The extravasated fluid may diffuse itself in all directions,—upwards between the bladder and pubis, laterally by the sides of the prostate, and downwards into the scrotum. The fascia, which lies under the integuments of the perineum, prevents the formation of any tumour in this situation ; but, when the fluid gets through the less dense membrane opposite the scrotum, it speedily distends the loose cellular substance, and produces a large globular swelling, which pits when subjected to pressure. The urine, after being thus effused, soon excites great irritation, the effects of which are intense local inflammation, and constitutional disturbance of the most alai’mincr character. The distended scro- turn becomes first red, and before many hours black, while the system suffers as if influenced by some deadly poison; a quick small pulse; dark-coloured tongue; frequent vomiting; incessant hic- cup ; and low delirium, are the indications which betray this dan- gerous condition; and death soon closes the scene unless some ac- tive means of relief are speedily and successfully administered. A free incision should be made in the perineum, through the fascia, and down to the infiltrated cellular substance. The scrotum may be scarified also, and hot fomentations ought to be applied to pro- mote the discharge of putrid urine, blood, and sloughs; while at the sjime time, the patient’s strength is diligently supported by wine and other cordials. If the urine has insinuated itself exten- sively into the cellular substance of the pelvis, all these means will be unavailing, but if it has been chiefly confined to the scrotum and neighbourhood, a cure may be accomplished with careful manage- ment, and after a long confinement. A surgeon should never he- sitate to make free incisions in such cases, however desperate they may at first appear, since recoveries have taken place in apparently the most hopeless circumstances, when extensive sloughing was com- plicated with the weakness of old age. In some rare ciises, the opening is formed into the rectum, and 3