INFLAMMATION. 25 retaining the heat and moisture. Bread, barley-meal, and linseed- meal are chiefly used; but carrots, turnips, and leaves such as those of spinach and hemlock, are thought preferable in certain cases. These articles ai’c either enclosed in a thin linen or muslin bag, or placed directly on the part concerned, in wliich case it is necessary to spreiid some butter or other oily substance on the poidtice, to prevent it from acting inconveniently to the surface of the body. Mr Liston advises that, instead of poultices, some folds of lint moistened with hot water, should be applied, and covered with a piece of oiled silk, contending that any benefit derived from these may be thus obtained, with less trouble and risk of causing injurious relaxation. Heat is sometimes applied locally without moisture, as by means of a bag containing heated salt, but is then found to be not so efiicacious. Narcotics.—These are medicines wdiich, without causing any real diminution in the power of the system, produce a temporary indis- position for action. Of these the most useful are opium, tobacco, hyoscyamus, and belladonna. Astringents.—These are remedies somewhat similar in eftect to those last mentioned. Cold, acetate of lead, and nitrate of silver, are the best means of this kind. Cold is more efficient in preventing than curing inflammation. It is of no use unless it can be applied either to the part affected or in its immediate neighboiuhood; and then only when the diseased action proceeds from dirrect irritation. The acefcite of lead is used externally in solution, either {done or along with opium, in the proportion of two or three grains of each to the oxmee. It is generally applied wnrm, and fris great effect in allaying inflammation depending on undue irritability. Pressure.—WTien the part or system is disposed to overact by the weakness of its power, especially when it is attended with oedema- tous swelling, pressure may often be exercised advantageously by bandaging. Counter-irritants.—The means of removing inflammation which are included under this title act on the principle of metastasis, and excite irritation of various degrees as to intensity and duration. Tlic most gentle in their effect are named rubefacients, of w'hich may mentioned mushud, oil of turpentine, ammonia, gum ammoniac, camphor, and some of the mineral acids. Blisters or vesicatories are applications which, as the name implies, occasion blisters of the skin or elevations ol the cuticle, by flmd effused under it in con-