73 DISEASED NUTIIITION. opiates, used both extenially and internally. Hemlock poidtices, lotions and ointments of acetate of lead, carbonate of iron, various preparations of arsenic, pressure, and an endless catalogue of ap- plications might be mentioned, as having been more or less con- fided in for correcting the diseased action, and instituting a heal- ing one. They sometimes afford temporary relief, but nexier effect any permanent alteration to the better. The only proceedhig that deserves at all to be considered a remedy for carcinoma, is removal of the morbid sti’ucture. This may be done sometimes by the actual or potential cautery; but these means are very apt to destroy the disease only partially, and consequently, do no good, but, on the contrary, harm, by exciting grejiter activity in the portion that remains. The knife or scissors effect the extirpation most easily and securely; and the ligature should be reserved for those cases where excision might be attend- ed with irrepressible hemorrhage. It would be subjecting the patient to useless pain, and bringing surgery into discredit, to attempt extirpation in cases where the extent or connections of the disease prevented its complete removal. It is also incumbent on the surgeon to search very carefully for glands in the course of the absorbents, that may have become affected, since it appears that the result of operations for carcinoma, when the glands are af- fected, is almost invariably unsatisfactory, however perfectly they may seem to be taken away. The reason of this probably is, that the glands do not participate in the disease, unless the system be strong- ly disposed to it, and consequently their removal, however freely and effectually executed, cannot prevent the patient’s relapse. In performing the operation, it is not sufficient to take away the mere indurated mass, as the surrounding parts are always more or less vitiated in their disposition. If the disease is seated in a distinct organ, the whole of it ought always to be removed, however small the part of it which is actually affected may be; and when the tis- sue concerned is not in this way circumscribed, the knife should I be carried as wide as possible from the tumour. I Medullary Sarcoma. j The title of Cerebriform is perhaps more correct than that of Medullary, to designate the species of sarcoma which is now to be j considered ; but, as the general acceptation of the latter term has 1 fully sanctioned its use, there would be no advantage in attempting a change.