EYE. 4G7 cilia, to the same distance from the lowest hairs of the eye-brow, and reach the whole length of the eyelid, so that the form of the raw surface may appear nearly round when the eye is closed. Scissors of the usual form are quite sufficient for the purpose, but they prove more convenient when curved on the side. The cut edges must be brought into accurate contact by stitches of the in- terrupted suture, or small pins introduced at the distance of a quarter of an inch from each other. The wound heals by the first intention, and leaves hardly any vestige of its existence. In very aggravated cases it has been found necessary to divide the eyelids at their external commissure, in order to obtain sufficient relaxa- tion for effecting the requisite eversion. By Trichiasis is understood a morbid state, which produces nearly the same symptoms as entro])ium, but depends upon some- what different circumstances. It seems to consist in an improper direction of the eyelashes, which, instead of defending the eye, turn inwards upon it, so as to cause constant irritation. Attempts have been made to remedy this, by pulling out the cilia, cauteriz- ing their roots, and cutting away their secreting bulbs, or even the whole edge of the eyelid; but all these means are very ineffectual, and, at the best, afford only a temporary relief. The only method of curing the disease, is to treat it like entropium; and, by effect- ing a very decided eversion of the ciliary margin, prevent the eye- lashes, though still possessing their improper direction, from touch- ing the surface of the ball. Ectropium is an opposite condition, chiefly affecting the lower eyelid. In this case the edge is turned outwards, exposing the lining membrane to external irritation, presenting an unseemly ap- pearance, and allowing the teai*s to run over the cheeks. The causes of this eversion are thickening, or excrescence of the inner surface, relaxation of the orbicular muscle, and the contraction occasioned by the healing of sores in the integuments. The treat- ment must of course be varied according to these different circum- stances. If the disease depends merely upon a thickened state of the mucous lining of the eyelid, touching it occasionally with ni- trate of silver, or concentrated sulphuric acid, or shaving away a portion at once with curved scissors, are the means usually em- ployed. If the eyelid is preternaturally relaxed, a V shaped piece may be cut out of it, aud the edges then united together by one or two pins; and, if the edge is drawn outwards by a cicatrix of the