rniNCIPLKS OF SURGERY. 224 denly bent backwards, while the foot is fixed and the limb is kept straight by the strong involuntary action of its extensor muscles. The symptoms are slight shortening, eversion of the toes, and the head of the bone being felt distinctly rolling under the integuments of the groin. The reduction is performed by extending downwards and backwards, while the patient lies on his sound side, and then drawing the upper part of the thigh outwards, so as to lift the head of the femur over the acetabulum. It is only in cases of dislocated thigh-bone that the pulley is ever necessary or even useful, and even here it may in general be dis- pensed with, unless the patient is extremely robust, or the disloca- tion has remained long unreduced. It has often been a question at how great a length of time after dislocation may reduction be ef- fected. I have succeeded at the end of seven and nine weeks; but, in using force at a more distant period, should have little hope of success, and some fear of doing harm, by deranging the process by which the displaced bone becomes accommodated to its new position. Knee-Joint.—The patella may be cbslocated laterally by direct violence, and this accident is most apt to happen when the parts concerned are in the relaxed state, which results from sudden re- moval of a dropsical effusion into the joint. The dislocation is very readily recognized, and admits of easy remedy, by bending the thigh upon the pelvis while the knee is straight, so as to relax the extensor muscles completely, and then pressing the patella into its proper place. The tibia and fibida are so strongly connected with the femur, that they very seldom suffer dislocation. In consequence of a vio- lent wrench to one side, there is sometimes a laceration of one or other of the lateral ligaments, and a partial displacement of the ar- ticulating surfaces of the tibia. In the rare cases of its complete dislocation, it has generally been found beliind the femur; but ac- cording to Sir A. Cooper, it may also be driven forwards. The accident is very readily recognized, owing to the great size of the articulating surfaces, and the thinness of their surrounding parts. The reduction, which is not difficult, requires extension and coun- ter-extension, accompanied with pressure on flic dislocated bone. It is thought that the semilunar cartilages are subject to displace- ment, since persons of relaxed frame sometimes comphiin of pain and stiffness in moving the knee, which are felt suddenly, and disappear no less so when the joint is forcibly bent and extended. Ankle-Joint,—Though the ankle is frequently dislocated as a 4