SUPPURATION. 61 md, as a measure for determining its size, the breadth of the part ff the abscess which points may be taken, it it docs not exceed an mch and a half or two inches. After the matter escapes, so far ss it is induced to do so by the contraction of the parts containing ll, a piece of lint should be placed between the lips of the wound 00 prevent them from uniting by the first intention ; but care must oe taken that it is not so thick or forcibly introduced as to confine Hie discharge, and consequently oppose the obliteration of the cavi- vy. When the bleeding has ceased, a poultice should be applied, but not before, since a troublesome hemorrhage may otherwise en- sue. In some situations great difficulty is occasionally experienced tin arresting the flow from arterial branches divided by the incision, ifrom their resisting the efforts of 'pressure, and not admitting the itipplication of ligatures, oiHng to the softened state of the texture -surrounding the orifices. In such cfrcumstances, the best method as to pass a needle through the integuments into the cavity, and then tbringing it out so as to include the vessel in a ligature, which being ttied, proves certainly effectual, and may be removed when it ceases to Hie required. The poultice may be continued for a few days to pro- tmotc the escape of matter secreted by the siu'face of the abscess, ; and then simple ointment, or wet lint, supported with a proper 1 bandage, should be employed until the cure is completed. When caustic is used it shoidd be applied as if for making an i issue *, and in case it does not extend its efi’ect through the whole j parietes of the cavity, a knife may be pushed into the eschar or slough • caused by its operation. Patients who could not bear the idea of 1 having their sound skin cut, have sometimes comparatively little I objection to this. Some practitioners prefer caustic for opening abscesses, on tlie ground that, while making the apertime, it hastens the suppurative process. But if means for tliis piuqjosc are required, there are others which can be used with more effect, and leave the opening to be made by the more eligible method of the knife, j When, owing to peculiarity of the part or patient, it is desirable i to avoid making a breach in the surface, means should be used to ! promote removal of tbe matter by absorption. The best of these J arc blisters, followed by pressure. The cases in which they can be I used with effect are chiefly those of slow suppuration in the glands, and imder the periosteum. Abscesses are said to be Chronic or cold when the symptoms of ' inflammation which precede them are mild or not at all observable. In such cases the collection generally forms slowly and insidiously,