BLOOD-VKSSELS. 103 from entering the aneurism, but merely to cause such stagnation of its current as may induce coagulation, it was proposed by i\I. Bras- dor of Paris to obliterate the vessel beyond the tumour, when cir- cumstances prevented the operation from being performed between it and the heart Some unsuccessful attempts have been made on tills principle; but Mr Wardrop has recorded several instances of its alleged more fortunate application. It is evident that the operation cannot be performed with advantage, if a branch of any considerable size comes oft' between the anemism and ligature, as this would allow the current of blood to continue; it could not be of any use in cases where, the sac being small and regularly dilated, the contents re- mained fluid ; and the only occasions where it promises any benefit are those in which coagulation is already far advanced. But here the passage tlirough the vessel beyond the tumour must be obstructed nearly, if not altogether, as much as it can be by the ligature; so that there consequently does not seem to be much probabi- lity of this operation being ever extensively introduced into prac- tice. Treatment of Particular Aneurisnui. • Aneimisms are usually divided into external and internal, accord- ingly as they affect the branches of the aorta or its trunk. The former are generally subject to the operation which has been de- scribed ; the latter admit of no remedy except what may be afibrded by the plan of Valsalva External Aneurisms. Popliteal.—One of the most common situations of external aneu- rism is the popliteal artery, which being subject to sudden extremes of tension and relaxation more than any other part of the arterial system, must be exposed not only to the directly exciting causes of the disease, but also to the predisposing effect of the same irritations leading to morbid alteration of its coats. The tumour occupies the popliteal cavity, which it gradually fills, but hardly extends beyond, so long as any part of the artery remains entire. A circumscribed pulsating swelling is felt in the ham, which weakens the limb, and usually occasions constantly increasing pain as well as oedema, by pressing on the nerve and vein that lie over it, and forcing them outwards. In some cases so little inconvenience is felt that the dis- ease escapes observation until it attains a large size. Wlicn the ex- ternal coat gives way, so as to let the blood escape into the cellular