EYE. 453 blisters applied to the back of the neck greatly contributes to ar- rest the morbid action. A very violent purulent ophthalmy is occasionally met with in adults who are alFectcd with gonorrhoea. There are two opinions in regard to its production; one being that it depends on a metas- tasis of the disease from the urethra to the eye; the other, that it proceeds from the irritation of matter casually Introduced into the latter j)art. The former of these explanations seems very impro- bable ; but whatever be the causes of the inflammation, there can . be no doubt that it is extremely violent and destructive, in general resisting the most active treatment, and terminating in the serious imperfection or total destruction of the eye as an organ of vision. Free and repeated general bleeding, leeching, and warm fomenta- tions should be used as early as possible; together with powerful cathartics and antimonial diaphoretics. If the disease assumes a chronic form, the treatment that has been already explained will be proper. Ulceration of the cornea, or its conjunctival covering, is a very common consequence of inflammation. The ulcers are sometimes preceded by small superficial pustules, but more frequently appear without any such antecedent They are usually small, round, and of a brownish colour. They possess a very irritable surface, and consequently maintciin the inflammatory symptoms. If large and deep, they leave, on cicatrizing, a permanent white spot named Jjeucoma. In treating them, the measures employed must be va- ried according to the acuteness of the inflammatory symptoms; but when these arc of a chronic kind, as is usually the case, the solution of nitrate of silver always produces the best efiects, and has now completely superseded a practice, formerly much in use, of touching the ulcers with a pointed stick of the lunar caustic. AFhen the ulcers frequently recur, they will be found to depend on some indirect irritation, such as that caused by an unhealthy state of the digestive organs; and of course any such source of distm-bance ought to be removed as soon as possible. Opacity of the cornea varies in extent and depth. It always pro- ceeds from organizable effusion into the natural texture of the part; but this may be induced in three ways:—1. inflammation, leading to effusion in the superficial conjunctival covering of the cornea; 2. eftusion of lymph into the substance of the cornea with or without purulent matter; 3. cicatrization of an ulcer. The fii’st of these is named Nebula, the second Albugo, and the third Leu-