PRIXCiri.ES OF SUROERV. 16 It is uiiuecessary to mention more examples of sucli counterbalaii- eing effects; but it must be observed, that the exchange is mon; ready between some of these morbid states tlmn others, which must he attended to in the use of counter-irritation. 6. General disturbance or fever, however induced, is apt to ter- uiinate in some local affection, a part being, as it were, sacrificed for the whole. Most people have what may he cidled their weak part, which gives way on such occasions, and in many acts like a safety-valve, by protecting organs of more imjjortance, 'as when sore throat, her- petic eruptions of the ears, or erysipelas is aj)t to result from con- stitutional disturbance. This pronencss to particular loc<d diseases may be either congenihd or the residt of habit. In the former case it leads to what is called hereditary disease, of which g<mt may be mentioned as an example. Treatment of hiflammatiun. The great object in treating inflammation is to make it termi- nate in Resolution,—that is, to subside and disappear without leav- ing any change in the structure or actions of the part. The most obvious step in the first instance with this view is removal of the cause which excited the disease, should it still continue in opera- tion. ^yiien the cause is direct, this can sometimes be accomplish- ed speedily and perfectly, as w'hcn a foreign body occasions disturb- ance by its presence. But when it is of an indirect kind, such as the suppression of some natural secretion or discharge, from the mu- cous membrane or uterus for instance, the process for removing it is generally tedious and difficult, requiring the careful administration of medicine and strict attention to regimen. When the cause can- not be remedied at once, or when the inflammation continues after its cause has ceased to operate, which is generally the ciise, the mor- bid action requires the use of means for its suppression. The symptoms of inflammation naturally suggest the abstraction of blood,—and this has accordingly always been regarded as its great antidote, though j)erha])s less often really required than is generally believed Blood may be wntlulrawn locally, from the Inflamed part or its neighbourhood, and generally, from the larger veins or smaller arteries. The veins are almost always ])referred for this piu-posc, from being more superficial than the arteries, whence they arc more easily opened, and from being more easily closed. Those at the bend of the arm, the external jugular, and