424 PUINCIPLES OF SURGERY. of the wound, if there be one, have been insisted upon as import- ant indications of suppuration of the dura mater ; but they often exist in cases where there is nothing of the kind, and, therefore, ought not to he confided in. The operation of })erforating the skull is performed in this coun- try with a Trephine or circular saw, to which the necessary rota- tory motion is given by the hand. On the continent an older in- strument named the Trepan, which works like a carpenter’s brace, is still in use ; and it is difficult to understand how the latter should ever have given place to the former, the use of which ren- ders the process much more tedious and laborious. The only ob- jection that can be alleged against the trepan is, the risk of its in- juring the dura mater or brain; but the apprehension of this rests entirely on theoretical grounds, as with moderate care, any chance of such an occurrence may be prevented. The patient should be laid on a support, low enough to render it unnecessary for the operator to elevate his arras in working the saw. If the bone is not sufficient- ly exposed by the original injury, a crucial or triangular incision must be made through the sailp, the flaps of which are then to be dissected back. The pericranium is next scraped off sufficiently to prevent it from impeding the teeth of the saw, which is applied at first with its centre pin protruded to keep it steady, and afterwards, when a groove has been formed, this obstacle to its progress is re- moved. The sawing must be condiicted cautiously, as the skull is not always equally thick, and is often throughout very thin, with hardly any perceptible diploe. A tooth-pick, or probe, should be introduced from time to time, to ascertain whether or no the bone is perforated at any part of the circle, and when the whole seems to be nearly cut through, a levator or forceps may be employed to raise the detached piece. If circumstances apj)ear to require the removal of more bone, the same means are to he repeated,—or the ])rocess may be accelerated, if the portion is extensive, by riey’s saw, as it is usually called, which proves convenient for connecting the circular ajicrturcs together so as to separate at once a large portion of the cranium. After the operation the wound is to be lightly dressed, and the general treatment con- ducted with the view of checking any tendency to inflammatory action. Cases admitting of this operation with any jirospect of success are extremely rare, as the suj)puration generally extends over a large surface of the membranes, or engages the substance of the brain.