PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 478 trived. The best method on the whole appears to be the simple one of using a common curved surgical needle, and guiding it with a pair of strong dressing forceps. The patient for some days after the operation must abstain from food, except what is absolutely necessary, and this should be of a fluid kind. Several repetitions of the process have repeatedly been required to complete the union of the wdiole fissure, and therefore the failure of one attempt or more ought not to occasion discouragement. Small apertures in the soft palate resulting from ulceration may be closed by repeat- ed applications of the cautery to their margins. Cancer of the Lij). Cancerous ulceration frequently occurs in the under lip, but bardly ever affects the upper one, except by extending to it from the other, which seldom happens. This difference probably depends on the greater or more frequent irritation to which the lower lip is exposed, by its situation, and mobility. The disease rarely com- mences before middle age, and is met with more frequently in males than in females. It originates in different ways, at one time being preceded by a hard warty excrescence, possessing the carcinomatous texture, and at another, appearing first in the form of a superficial chap or excoriation. The cancer once established, increases pro- gressively, but with variable rapidity, being attended with burning or lancinating pain, and surrounded with a remarkable induration. The aspect of the sore is extremely various, but always dissimilar from that of a sound granulating surface. All sorts of applications and modes of treatment, except removal of the diseased parts, are found quite unavailing; but in proceeding to this extreme mea- sure, it is necessary to beware of regarding as cancerous, ulcers not possessed of malignant action, and obstinate merely on account of the peculiar circumstance of their situation. Ulcers occurring on the lip at or before middle age may be generally traced to the in- fluence of local irritation, proceeding from the motion of the part, or the asperities of the teeth ; and in all cases, unless the cancerous characters should be very distinct indeed, it is right to try the ef- fects of rest by confining the lip with a bandage, and of removing any sharp points of the teeth that may be found to project, by filing or extracting them. While this trial is made, the sore should be dressed with black-wash, or solution of the sulphate of zinc, care being taken at the same time to remedy any derangement that may be discovered to exist in the state of the secretions.