PEi.vrs. ^^33 tient in such iinhaj)py circumstances, is soothing tlie iiTitatlon of the disease by opiate injections, the hip-bath, and gentle laxatives. Fissures and Ulcers of the Rectum, M. Boyer, in his System of Surgery,* describes, under the title of Ger^ure, or fissure of the anus, a very troublesome affection, which had previously been almost entirely overlooked. It consists, according to him, of one or more small superficial ulcerated chops, lying in the direction of the radiated folds of the anus, but rather more internally, so as not to be visible without a forcible separa- tion of the nates. The distinctive symptoms of the disease are, pain in the region of the anus, aggravated during evacuation of the bowels, and such a close constriction of the sphincter, as renders the introduction of a finger, or even a much smaller body, insuffer- ably painful. It may occur at any age, but is most frequently met with at and before the middle period of life, and in males much more fi’equently than females. The patient at first merely feels pain for some time after evacuations of the rectum, and suffers no farther inconvenience in the intervals between them. As the disease ad- vances, he experiences more severe and continued distress ; pressure of any kind, as that which proceeds from sitting, occasions great un- easiness ; and constipation is induced, which, by causing induration of the feculent matters, renders the symjdoms still more intense. Mucus, sometimes tinged with blood, is copiously discharged; when the nates are separated, the anus appears to be absent, owing to the close contraction which it suffers frem the inordinate action of the muscle : and if an attempt is made to introduce the finger, the patient involuntarily springs beyond the surgeon’s reach. Any cir-^ cumstances productive of local or general irritation, tend to aggra-r vate the patient’s suffering ; and those of an opposite kind occasion- ally procure for him intervals of conq)arative ease. The pain is especially refeired to the situations which the chops occuj>y. The causes of the disease are not well ascertained, but sedentary habits and venereal excesses seem favourable to its production. For the cure of this complaint, Boyer considered it necessary to divide the Sphincter ani, and such has hitherto been deemed the only certain means of remedy. Beginning my practice under this impression, I have gi’adually limited the extent of incision, and now feel fully warranted to state, that so far from division of the whole * Tom. X. p. 12.5. (1825).