227 JOINTS. stitutional treatment is to be conducted on the same principles. The patient will generally be benefited by bleeding and purging, to lessen bis strength of action ; but sometimes the opposite means are required to correct tlie irritability that proceeds from weakness. The diet in general should be strictly antiphlogistic ; but here also excc})tions may require to be made on account of the peculiar cir- cumstances of the case. When compound dislocations are treated on these principles, the necessity for amputation, which iised formerly to be generally per- formed as their only remedy, is greatly lessened. The ankle-joint is most subject to the accident, and the formidable appearances which are presented by it seem at first sight to warrant the removal of the limb ; but when the projecting extremities of the bones are sawn off, the distortion rectified by suitable splints or bandages, and the edges of the wound placed fairly together, the cure is often accomplished very readily. The elbow' or wTist-joints may in ge- neral be ])reserved by the same means, but the knee-joint, when subjected to the great irritation which attends both a dislocation and penetrating wound, can hardly be expected not to inflame, and either ]>rove speedily fahil or require subsequent amputation. Hence in such an injury the limb will generally require to be am- putated immediately. Gun-shot wounds of the shoulder and el- bow, unless the integuments, blood-vessels, or nerves, are much injured, may be remedied by cutting out tbe articulation, as in cases of caries. Iivflammation of Joints. Inflammation of the joints is attended with deej>seated pain, gi’catly aggravated by motion or pressure, swelling, redness, and tenderness of the integuments, and more or less constitutional dis- turbance, according to the intensity of the local symptoms. It is caused by the direct irritation of wounds, strains, and bruises; and . indirectly, by exposure to cold, errors of diet or exercise, and wbat- ^ ever induces derangement of the system. The consequences of inflammation in this situation are numerous and important, as might ^ be expected from the number and nature of the textures wdiich I enter into the constitution of the articular apparatus. The syno- ' vial membrane becomes the seat of dropsical and purulent effu- j! sions, adhesions, thickening, and gelatinous degeneration ; the car- : tilage suffers ulceration and exfoliation; and the bones are liable to suppuration, caries, and anchylosis, or union of their adjoining