BOXES, 211 and the whole system becoming disordered, the bones even kss pro- perly nourished tlian before, lo^ still more of their resisting power. Should the patient unfortunately, during this process, fall into the hands of a machine-maker, who attempts to prop up the weak and twisted spine by means of iron frame-works, the morbid alterations which have been described will be accelerated; for all such con- trivances must prove either insupportable to the patient, or ineffi- cient in straightening the sjjine; and granting even that they could accomplish this, they would still labour under the great objection of confining the movements of the trunk, and preventing the mus- cles from obtaining that exercise which is essential to the recovery of their strength. The result would be not more satisfactory if the practitioner were to go to the opposite extreme, and, regarding the muscles as the sole seat of the disease, attempt to strengthen them by enjoining long-continued exercise in the erect posture, or, still worse, recommending a weight to be carried on the head, in order to render their actions in balancing it more energetic than usual. Such practice, however useful in preventing curvature, must manifestly tend to increase it when once commenced. In the management of persons predisposed by their age, sex, temperament, or constitutional make to this disease, every means ought to be used for strengthening the system in general, and the trunk in particular. All long-continued and constrained positions must be interdicted,—^frequent exercise of such kind as calls into action the muscles of the trunk should be enjoined. The use of stays, corsets, and every rigid article of dress, however designated, must be strictly prohibited. If curvature has already taken place, it is evident that the first step towards reparation must be relieving the weak and bent spine from pressure. The only mode of effec- tually accomplishing this is to make the patient assume the hori- zontal posture, which can be done without any great hardship, if a smooth well-stuflied soffa is provided, instead of the floor or a board, which is sometimes used for the purpose. The warm bath ought to be employed, if possible, two or three times a-week, and the back should be rubbed with some stimulating liniment for twenty 1 minutes every night and moniing. When the curvatvue begins to t diminish, the patient may rise occasionally for a few minutes, and exercise the muscles by some suitable employment, which ought never to be continued after the slightest feeling of fatigue is expe- 1 rienced. By persisting in this system, the disease will certainly be < arrested in its course, the distortion, if not very great, will be re- moved, and the worst cases will be considerably improved.