PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 392 ractcrs that have been described, and enlarging in superficial ex- tent without becoming deeper. In the sloughing state the sore is surrounded with much tense swelling, and dift'used redness. The jiain is intense; and the margin of the sore, which is very irregu- lar, at one or more parts exhibits sphacelated spots. Owing to the peculiarities of their situation, and also of the circumstances which attend their production, sores on the penis are generally very slow in healing, unless jiropcrly treated; and even then often require more time for the purpose than might be ex- pected beforehand from their size. It was very generally believed until lately, and the opinion is still maintained by many, that the poison which gave rise to chancres was of a peculiar kind, which had not existed in Europe until the latter part of the fifteenth cen- tury, when it suddenly appeared at the siege of Naples; having either originated there, or been brought by Spanish soldiers who had imported it from the newly discovered western world. This poison of Syphilis, as it has been called, was supposed to produce various other effects besides the juimary sore, when absorbed from it into the system: first causing bubo, and then a succession of con- stitutional disorders that were termed secondary symptoms. Of these the most important were scaly eruptions of the skin, ulcera- tion of the fauces, exfoliation of the bones of the nose, chronic in- flammation of the periosteum and bones, ulcers on the surface of the body, cachectic emaciation, and death. It was farther believed tliat mercury, administered so as to ju’oduce its constitutional ef- fect; or feverish excitement with salivation, acted as a certain anti- dote to this poison, whether operating locally or generally; but that unless it encountered the poison previously to being absorbed from,tile sores, it merely arrested the morbid derangement in pro- gress, witliout preventing the occurrence of the other secondary symptoms, which required successive courses of salivation for their remedy. It is now fully ascertained that the poison of the present day, though producing local effects in all respects similar to those described as resulting from syphilis, does not give rise to the dread- ful consequences which have just been mentioned, when treated without mercury. The cure may be tedious, and the skin, throat, or periosteum may be slightly affected, but none of the serious ef- fects that used to be so much dreaded ever appear; and even the trivial ones just noticed corajiarativcly seldom present themselves. We must therefore conclude either that the violence of the j)oison is worn out, or that the effects formerly attributed to it depended