PIllNCITLES OF SURGERY. 331 itmscle being required, cutting the mucous membrane alone is suf- ficient. In short, the essential of the operation is, converting the fissure into an incision ; and for this purpose, instead of the deep gash described by M. Boyer, I merely insert the point of a sharp- pointed curved bistoury, (Fig. 5, Plate III), at the lower end of the choj), and bring it out at the other extremity, so as to pass under the base and insure its complete division. The small wound thus inflicted scarcely requires any dressing, and the patient is at once relieved. There is a form of this disease which frequently occurs, but is seldom recognized, though the symptoms are well marked, and the sufferings of the patient so great that its discovery is of no small consequence, especially as the remedy is equally simple and cer- tain. This is an ulcer seated immediately within the sphincter, where, of course, it cannot be brought into view by the most forcible separation of the nates, and admits of detection only by examination with the finger gently introduced, and carried round the circum- ference of the gut, so as to feel the condition of its surface. The idcers have an elongated form, and rarely exceed half an inch in length, not deep, but indurated at the margin, which facilitates their recognition. The patient’s acute pain when ])ressure is made on the ulcerated sm*face also assists in the examination. The symptoms of this ulcer of the rectum are similar to those attending fissures of the anus. There is the same pain a fter going to stool,— the same uneasiness in sitting, when the patient may be observed to rest with one hip on the corner of his chair,—and the same .slimy discharge from the bowels. Uneasy feelings in the urinary organs are very generally complained of, especially a disagreeable sensation in the perineum, and frequent desire to make water, with more or less pain in doing so, I have met with instances of twenty and thirty years’ misery from this source, aggravated by an endless variety of treatment, sometimes sufficiently severe, directed to the urethra by fashionable practitioners in this department of practice both at home and abroad. When the presence of such an ulcer has been recognized, the patient may be relieved by the following no less simple than cer- tiiin procedure. The operator having gently insinuated the jioint of his fore-finger, well-oiled, far enough to feel the exact situa- tion and extent of the ulcerated surface, places the point of the sharj) curved bistoury at the margin of the anus, and pushes it up- wards so as to pass under the base and issue into the gut above the