383 PELVIS. sence of one in the kidney or ureter, and the introduction of a ca- theter or sound ascertains its existence positively. AVoinen be- tween the ages of twenty and fifty are most frequently the subjects of the disease. The female urethra being not only very short and wide in its natural state, but also very dilatable, allows small stones to be seiz- ed and extracted through it very readily. But when the calculus attains a large size, it lias generally been thought necessary, until of late, to enlarge the ojiening by incision. This may be readily ef- fected by introducing a grooved director, and conveying in by its means a knife, with which the urethra and neck of the bladder are divided obliquely outwards and downwards, on one or both sides, without injury to the vagina. The objection to this operation is the risk of subsequent incontinence of urine; and the fear of such a consequence has led some surgeons to cut above the pubis, or between the pubis and the orifice of the urethra (Lisfranc). Sir A. Cooper, and others, have of late years brought into notice a mode of extracting the calculus, which, though practised previously at dif- ferent times, had been almost forgotten. This was, to dilate the urethra by instruments contrived for the purpose, or by sponge tent; means certainly preferable to those which seem to have been formerly in use, such as the root of gentian, or a piece of small in- testine containing air or water, introduced into the urethra flaccid, and afterwards rendered tense by twisting (Bromfield). The pro- cess of dilatation must be carried on slowly to prevent an insuffer- able degree of pain, and other bad consequences. If the stone is large, it will gi-eatly expedite and facilitate the operation to intro- duce the finger into the urethra, and divide with a straight bistoury any particularly tense part of the canal that may be felt After this the dilatation goes on much more rapidly, so as to be complet- ed in a few minutes, instead of requiring days. In the event of the operation by incision being preferred, or rendered necessary by the hu-ge size of the stone, it is better to cut both sides of the ure- thra, than to divide one only to the requisite extent Incontinence of Urine. Incontinence, or invohxntary discharge of urine, is rarely mot with in females, but occurs very often in males. It happens at all ages, and depends on different circumstances. In chihlren,'wbo arc frequently sxibjcct to it during their sleep, the cause seems to be irritability of tb.e bladder, inducing its cx]mlsive contraction be-