ABDOMEX. 315 been cut, threatens to bleed much, it should be tied before going farther. The surgeon has then to divide the layers of fasciae which cover the sac; and the old method of doing this was to cut them successively upon a grooved director thrust under them, so as to elevate portion by portion. Instead of a practice so tedious and perplexing, it is better to dissect down to the peritoneum, either by cutting through the fasciae as they lie stretched upon the sac, with the limid unsupported, as Scarpa advises, or by raising them with the forceps, cutting the fold thus elevated with the knife held parallel to the sac, and then dividing each layer in succession, upwau’ds and downwards, to the extent of the external incision. The best instru- ment for this purpose is the knife represented in Plate I. Fig 4. It is generally said, that the peritoneum may be recognized by a bluish appearance which it presents, owing to the presence of fluid contained within it, and by its more loose connections than those of the superjacent parts; but these characters are deceptive ; and it is fortunately not necessary that this recognition should be eflfected })revious to opening the sac. If it is opened in the same way that has been recommended for cutting through the fasciae, there will be no danger of wounding the contained viscera; and so soon as they are exposed, the dark colour of the intestine, and the smooth glistening internal surface of its peritoneal covering, which contrasts remarkably with the rough and bleeding external surface of tbe sac, and those of the flisciae, independently of any other signs, will at once assure the surgeon that he has opened the sac. When the hernia is small, its coverings and the sac ought always to be divided first at the fundus, or bottom of the tumoiu’, as they are there most apt to be separated from the intestine by serous fluid, which is almost always present in more or less quantity, and sometimes constitutes the principal part of the swelling. In a small hernia also, the sac should be opened throughout its whole extent; but if it is large, merely such a portion of its neck as may be sufficient for allowing the stricture to be reached and divided. If the presence of fluid could be depended upon there would be no danger in opening the sac; but as it is occasionally, though certainly very seldom, absent, so that the peritoneal covering lies in close contact with the stran- gulated parts, it would be extremely imprudent in any case to ope- rate with reliance on the protection which is thus not certainly af- forded. The safest mode of proceeding is to jfinch up a small por- tion of the sac with the forcej)s, and then to divide it, holding the knife parallel with the surface of the tumour. Wherever an aper-