365 PELVIS. so as to occupy the whole pelvis and infundibula, branching out like a j)iece of coral, or becomes Incrusted ■with the tnple phos- phate. Much more frequently the calculus remains of a small size, ranging from that of a pea to that of a field bean, of an oval figure, very similar to the stone of an olive, and smooth reddish- brown surface, in which the component grains may in general be distinguished. In some rare cases abscesses have been produced by the irritation of the kidney, and in others still more rare, the matter, by inducing absorption of the pm’ietes of the abdomen, has made a passage outwards for the stone. Exaggerated reports of such occmTences have given rise to stories of renal calculi having been cut out, and Nephrotomy has been seriously proposed by surgeons wdio think more of the execution than the consequences of operations. AVhen the calculus descends into the ureter, unless of very small size, it occasions great local pain, and sympathetic irribition of the abdominal viscenn The patient complains of intense pain in the inguinal region of the affected side, about midway between the su- })crior anterior spinous process of the ilium and the pubis, which is greatly aggravated by pressure or motion. There is incessant nausea, and frequent bilious retching. The stream of urine pres- sing behind the calculus, and widening the passage, while it forces the obstructed body forwards, at length conveys it into the blad- der, immediately upon which all the uneiisincss is at once removed. This ])rocess of descent, which usually occupies from twelve to forty-eight hours, may be expedited and rendered less painfid by administering from time to time doses of castor-oil, with the mu- riate of morphia, or other preparations of opium—by throwing opiate injections into the rectum—^by placing the patient in a wann bath—and by bleeding from the arm, if he is of a robust habit. Sooner or later the passjige is completed, and there are few prepa- rations more rarely met with in museums than those showing a renal calculus arrested in the ureter. Having arrived in the bladder, the calculi either remain there, or proceed onwards through the urethra. In the former case, they become incrusted with layers of various thickness and compo- sition, as lias been already explained, and constitute concretiops which differ widely, according to the circumstances that attend their formation. The following arrangement includes the most important kinds.