488 PllINCirLES OF si hgery. \i * and the temporal. The only vessels that require to he tied are the facial and posterior palatine arteries, and the latter not always. The cavity of the cheek should be moderately filled with j)ieces of lint, and then the edges of the wound are brought carefully to- gether by means of the twisted or interrupted suture. The de- formity wliich remains after the cure has been completed is very inconsiderable, and the patient is able to speak, eat, and swallow with much less imperfection than might be expected. In the event of the cure proving permanent, an artificial substitute for the palate may be adapted to the cavity. Excision of the lower jaw is an easier, and less formidable ope- ration. The mode of performing it must be varied according to the size and situation of the tumour. It is usually either confined to one side of the bone, or engages one side more than the other. The base is the part most frequently affected, but the ramus is sometimes implicated, so as to require disarticulation. The best direction for the incisions through the cheek is .first downwards from that angle of the mouth which is opposite a sound part of the jaw, then along the base as far as the tumour extends, and, if neces- sary, up along the posterior margin of the ramus to the condyle. The flap thus formed having been separated from the tumour, the jaw is partially cut through with a small saw, and completely divid- ed by strong cutting pliers. The surgeon then grasping the de- tached portion turns it outwards, and separates its connections with the muscles and mucous membrane of the mouth. If the sym- physis is included, means must be employed to prevent suffocation from the tongue being drawn back by the muscles of deglutition, owing to the power w'hich kept it forward having ceased to act As it is only for a minute or two that there is any risk of this occur- rence, the best mode of proceeding is to seize the tongue with a towel, and confide it to an assistant until the tendency to retrac- tion ceases. The only arteries that require to be tied, are the fii- cial, and the ti’ansverse branches of the temporal, in the case of cutting over the ramus. The cavity of the wound should be gently filled with pieces of lint, after which stitches or needles are to be introduced so as to retain the cut edges in accurate contact. If it is necessary to remove the bone at its articulation, the operation should be conducted as has been described until the jaw is divided on that side of the tumour where it remains sound. The tumour is then pulled outwards, while its connections with the mouth are detached, and at the same time depressed so as to bring the coro-