126 miNCirLES OF SURGERY. very slight causes may prove sufficient to induce It, very severe ones may fail in doing so. Thus in crowded hospitals or other unhealthy situations, a large proportion of operations terminate fa- tally from inflammation of the veins; and wherever ery'sipelas abounds, })hlebitis is apt to be associated with it. AVith regard to the treatment, it must be admitted, that when the inflammation is acute, and attended mth much constitutional disturbance, it hardly yields to any remedy. In such cases, there- fore, the prognosis shoidd be very unfavourable. General bleeding seems to do no good; and, on the contrary, rather to increase the irritability of the system, which more requires calomel and opium. Local bleeding and fomentations are useful wdien the inflammation is acute. Warm solutions of acetate of lead with opium, and the tinctura saponis cum opio with camphorated mercurial ointment, and the pressm*e of a flannel bandage, constitute the best local ap- plications when the affection is chronic. IVounds of Veins, When veins are cut across, their orifices are closed by the same process which effects the obstruction of arteries in similar circum- stances ; and the smaller moving force of their contents favours this occimrence on one side of the apertime, while the valves still more effectually prevent any disturbance of the adhesive process at the other. If the vein concerned is one of the great trimks, and devoid of valves for preventing a retrograde motion of the blood, pressure ought to be preferred to ligature for restraining its he- ' morrhage, and a very slight resistance will he found sufficient. When veins are not divided, but merely wounded through a j)art of their circumference, they do not necessarily or usually either remain open or suffer complete obstruction, as the ai’teries do, but heal, and regain their original condition. This difference is owing to the smaller distension of the venous coats, winch allows the ef- ftision of lymjdi that takes jdace from their cut edges to become organized. If the lips of the wound continue in situ, they unite at once with each other; but if they are displaced, o\ving to their transverse direction, or any other cause, there is, in the first in- stance, injection of blood into the surrounding c-ellular substance; then the formation of a firm, round, smooth coagulum, exterior to the wound; and, lastly, an exudation of Ijnnph from the vessels of the vein, which, resting upon this clot, extends from one cut edge to the other, and gradxially unites them together, after which, the clot being absorbed, the cure is completed.