191 BONES. was rapidly giving way, I amputated the limb above the knee five all the cases where this has been done, either in the way of experi- ment or for the cure of disease, the loss of substiince, unless of small extent, has been found imperfectly repaired. For instance, after the operation of trepanning the skull, the aperture in the boncj though it becomes dirainisbed in extent, is not altogether obliterat- ed, and the newly-formed bone is not only smaller than the portion removed, but also thinner. In the fore-legs of dogs and rabbits, there are two bones of near- ly equal size, and so connected, that a large portion of one may be taken away without dcstrojang the rigidity of the limb. There is here, therefore, a convenient opportunity of trying what can be done I by the extremities of a bone for restoring losses of substance in its slaift. Experiments of this kind have accordingly been fi-e<piently performed on these animals, and the result has luiiformly been, that when the portion removed exceeded an inch in length, there was a permanent deficiency of osseous substance, the ends of the bone be- ing merely produced towards each other in a conical form, and con- nected together by a tough ligamentous textm*e. Sir A. Cooper has given representations of the rcsidts he met with; and I have met with others precisely similar. (Plate VIII. Fig. 2.) I Some of those pathologists who deny the ossific j)ower of the pe- riosteiun, and claim the whole production of new osseous substance ■ for the bone itself, have attempted to explain away the difficul- I ties which have just been stated, by supposing that, in cases of ne- . crosis where a new bone is formed, the old one, in consequence of ! the increased action preceding its death, may determine the effusion , of organizable matter into the surrounding soft textures, which will I serve as a matrix or foundation for the new shell, and be ready to ' take up the ossifying process so soon as it is communicated from the survi\nng extremities of the bone. That the process of repro- j duction may be accomplished in this way I am not prepared to deny, ! but that it is not necessarily, or always so performed, will, I tliink, appear from the following case. A girl, twelve years of age, strained her ankle in the month of March 1835. Inflammation followed, extending up to the knee, and attended with violent fever. She was brought to the hospital, and placed under my care. Incisions were soon afterwards made to evacuate a large collection of matter which had formed in the leg; and the bone being found dead, wlule the patient’s strength