nilXClPLES OF SUilGERY. 34(3 catheter as far as the bulb with the convexity upwards or towards the pubis; and then, by making the handle describe a semicircle, steadily turn it into the same jiosition, as when passed thus far the other way. The subsequent part of the process should be con- ducted in the manner which has been already explained. The danger to be dreaded, in performing this operation, consists in forcing the point of the catheter through the lining membrane of the urethra, into the spongy texture which surrounds it The false passages thus made occur most frequently about four inches from the orifice, owing to the handle of the catheter being too soon depressed;—at the bulb, from its not being depressed sufliciently, whence the point is pushed between the membranous part of the rirethra and the rectum;—and just before entering the neck of the bladder, from the point not being sufficiently elevated while m-ged forwards, which forces it into the substance of the prostate gland. Attention to these sources of error will guard the surgeon agmnst making false passages, and enable him to avoid them if already formed. It seldom happens that one evacuation of the bladder is sufficient for the jiatient’s recovery. He feels completely relieved at the time, but soon begins to suffer again from the symptoms of dis- tension ; as the bladder, even when in the soundest state previously, is slow in regaining its contractile power. The catheter, there- fore, must be introduced once or twice a-(hiy, until it ceases to be required; and the tincture of the miiriate of iron may be given alone, or together with Uva ursi, from time to time. If the eure should never be completed, as in cases where the palsy arising from distension is com])licated with the weakness of old age, it will still be right to draw off the water regularly at bed-time, to prevent its involuntary ilischarge during sleep. 2. Retention of Urine from Irritation and Spasmodic Contraction at the Neck of the Bladder. When the ordinary resistance to the passfige of the urine is in- creased by inordinate contraction of the muscles, which in the healthy state o])pose the expulsive power of the bladder, the fluid is retained, and gives rise to the same symptoms as in the former case, but generally in a very acute form. The muscles concerned in producing this effect are the sphincter of the bladder, and Wil- son’s muscles, which descend from the i)ubis and embrace the mem- branous part of the ui-ethra. The causes which excite their ex-