142 PRINCIPKES or SURGERY. Natural animal poisons are afforded chiefly by the two classes of Insects and Serpents. In this and other temperate climates, the effects of those of the former are hardly more than local, consist- ing of pain, swelling, and redness of the part injured. The treat- ment, when any is judged necessary, should also be local, and the solution of muriate of morphia, or that of acetate of lead with opium, aqiLa amvionice, and other preparations of ammonia afford most relief. There is considerable variety in the effect of these poisons, according to the irritability of the individual on whom they operate; and habit has a very remarkable influence in lessening it. The poison of serpents produces more sorious consequences, which vary according to the species wliich afibrds it. The most deadly sort occasions intense local pain, speedily follow'ed by swell- ing of the limb, rapidly extending, and attended with mottled livid discoloration of the skin. The patient, almost immediately upon being bitten, feels sick, weak, and confused. He appears as if in- toxicated, vomits, becomes quite insensible, and dies within a few hours, or it may even be minutes, after sustaining the injrmy. The viper, which is the only poisonous serpent in this country, hardly ever produces fatal effects ; but the pain and swelling caused by its bite arc often extremely distressing. The treatment must be both local and general. The former consists in opposing the entrance of the poison into the circulation; the latter in counteracting its depressing effect on the vital powers. In accomplishing the first of these objects, the means of most use are, 1. Removing the poison from the body either by cutting away the part, or destroying it with caustics or cauteries;—the applica- tion of ammonia also seems to have some effect in preventing it from producing its characteristic effects; 2. Applying a tight ligature on the limb to compress the veins and other absorbent vessels; and 3. To direct the evurent of the fluids towards, instead of from, the injm’ed part, by causing suction over it, which may be effected with the mouth, or a cupping-glass. One or other of these pro- ceedings may be trusted to cliiefly, according to circumstances, but in severe cases it is proper to combine the operation of the whole The general remeebes are such as tend to prevent sinking, by creating a sort of ai'tificial strength through their stimulating pro- jierty. Ammonia, given pure or in the state of carbonate, with spirits, and warm water, sufficient to make the mixture palatable, ought to be administered every five minutes. Arsenic has been strongly recommended also, as a remedy in such Ciises, and although it might be difficult to account for its salutary operation, the facts