GENITAL ORGANS. S93 on the treatment. The latter of these opinions is supported by the fact, that secondary symptoms of the utmost severity, embittering the patient’s existence and ultimately destroying it, are still met with in the practice of those who employ mercury profusely and indis- criminately : and it is a curious circumstance, which cannot be cither explained or denied, that this medicine produces these effects, more especially those on the bones, only in persons who are suffer- ing from venereal ulceration of the genital organs. The quantity of mercury requisite for thus injurio;isly affecting the system is very variable,—depending upon peculiarities of the patient’s constitution, either natural or acquired. Of the former, a scrofulous disposition may be particularly mentioned, and of the latter, one of the most im- portant, is that occasioned by mercury itself; since a person who has taken it to such an extent as to have been violently salivated, or otherwise disordered by its operation, is ever after very susceptible of its effect It is generally noticed that those persons suffer most from mercury, who arc least readily salivated by it Though mercury is thus extremely injurious when given large- ly, and requires caution even when used sparingly, it ought not to be abstained from altogether in the treatment of venereal diseases, unless the state of constitution is peculiarly unfavourable, since, under proper management, it often greatly accelerates recovery, both from the primary sore and from the different derangements of the system which are the consequence of the local disease simply, or which are produced by the means employed to cure the patient. It shoidd never be given with the view of producing salivation, but merely to promote the secretions, and act as an alterative in restor- ing a healthy state of the system. For this purpose five grains of the blue pill should be given every other night, and the patient should use a restricted regimen, with the decoction of sarsaparilla for a diet didnk, gentle doses of the saline cathartics being taken occasionally to keep the bowels perfectly open. It does not appear that the sarsaparilla produces good effects, farther than by making the patient conform more strietly to dietetic rules, and, therefore, the use of this medicine, which is attended on a large scale with much expense, does not seem either beneficial or warrantable in hospital practice. Mercurj' should not be given when the system IS in an irritable state, predisposing to phagedenie ulceration or sloughing. In this case, bleeding, opiates, change of air, or what- ever other means are suggested by general principles for allaying the intensity of action, must be employed. Instead of using mercury