484 rRlXCITLES OF SURGEllY. the teeth arc supposed to be pressing on it. A convex-edged in- strument answers best for this purpose, and it ought to be carried fairly down to the teeth in two directions, so as to make a crucial incision. hen the teeth decay, so as to lay open the internal cavity, and expose the sensible pulp to external irritation, pain, or Toothach, as it is called, usually commences. It is not constant, and varies extremely in the degree of its severity. Various irritations besides those of a local kind induce its tits, or occasional attacks, such as cold operating on the surface of the body, derangement of the di- gestive organs, or anxiety of mind. Pregnancy is observed to fa- vour their occurrence. The process of decay which leads to this complaint may often be averted, by scooping out the dark-coloured part of the tooth that surrounds the cavity, and filling the hollow with gold or silver foil, or gum mastic. Opium in substance or solution, some essential oils, as that of cloves, and also the strong mineral acids, when introduced into the hollow, often procure tem- porary relief from suffering; but in general, the only effectual re- medy is extraction of the tooth affected. This operation is \isually performed by means of either the tooth-key, as it is called, or powerful forceps, of which the blades are short, concave, and placetl obliquely in regard to the handles. Many ingenious apparatus have been contrived with the view of pidling the teeth perpendicu- larly from their sockets; but a little attention to the shape and di- rection of the fangs will render it evident that this mode, granting it to be practicable, would not be convenient. In order to dislodge the roots, it is necessary that the alveolar processes should be bro- ken more or less ; and the best way of accomplishing this is to draw the tooth towards that side which makes the least resistance, at the same time raising it from its bed. Both the instruments that have been mentioned enable the operator to exert a force in this oblique direction. The forceps in the hand of one not practised in their use, arc apt to detach the crown of the tooth from its fangs, and must therefore be employed with caution. After the process of dectay has proceeded so far that the roots of the tooth alone are left, the patient is relieved from toothach, but exposed to other symptoms of a troublesome kind, in consequence of the irritation caused by the stum])s, as they are called. These useless remnants become loosened in their connection with the jaw, and are apt to occasion similar effects to those which would pro- ceed from foreign bodies in the same situation. Inflammation of