134 rUINCirLES OE SURGERY. stitch. ^V’^hcn the wound opens into a cavity, as the mouth, a joint, or the abdomen, inconvenience might result from delaying its closure until the bleeding ceases, and in such circumstances, no harm can ensue from its continuing after the edges are brought to- gether, since the blood will pass into the cavity. In treating all in- cised wounds, it is proper to enjoin perfect quiet and the strict anti- phlogistic regimen; also to keep the wound constantly covered with cold wet cloths, unless the parts should be defective in action from weakness, when spirituous applications may perhaps be useful. When the superficial extent of a wound is very small in propor- tion to its depth, it is said to be punctured; such wounds are caused by instruments which have small points and generally blunt edges. They are not formidable in their appearance, but usually turn out much more troublesome than incisions of far greater size, being apt to occasion extensive inflammation, and wddely diffused suppuration. These bad consequences of punctures are usually ascribed to their penetrating some fascia, wdiich inflames and gives rise to the effects in question; and there can be no doubt that they are generally most productive of bad consequences when they do penetrate such a structure. But it seems reasonable to refer the diffused inflam- mation occasioned by them, in some measure at least, to the con- finemient of the discharge which necessarily results from their nar- row aperture, and the effect of the fibrous expansions which have been injured, in keeping iip irritation by their pressure. The most effectual method of checking the inflammation, wliich proceeds from punctures, consists in dilating the orifice of the wound, and it is, therefore, often recommended to do this immedi- ately after their infliction, to prevent bad consequences. It does not appear however that the chance of these is thus diminished, and, there- fore, the most prudent course is, in the first instance, merely to ap- ply cold water or other lotions proper for moderating action and ])rcventing inflammation. Should it actually commence, dilatation ought to be performed witbout delay, and then fomentations with poxdtices arc proper for a few days, or until the suppurative action is fully esfrblished, when compression and stimulating washes must be substituted in their stead. Contused wounds are solutions of continuity, in which the sur- faces arc injured by tbe violence that occiisions them,—the agent being usually some blunt surface ; moving, or on which the body is impelled, with great force. Contused wounds in general bleeil less than incised ones; their surfoce is ragged or lac(?rated; and some-