PELVIS. 351 powerful advocates. Wiseman proposed it so long ago as in his day, under the supposition that the disease depended on the growth of fleshy excrescences from the inner surface of the urethra. John Hunter recommended it for destroying the callous contracted state of the canal, which he more correctly regarded as the cause of obstruction. Sir E. Home, Lallemand, and other surgeons of recent times, have earnestly supported it by their practice and writ- ings. But from having been generally followed, it has now, in this country at least, fallen almost entirely out of \xse, which is not sur- prising when its disadvantages are considered. The mode of ap- plication usually employed was to insert a bit of lunar caustic, or potass, into the extremity of a wax bougie, and fix it in its place, by pressing down the edges of the excavation made for its recep- tion. The bougie was then passed quickly downi to the stricture, the seat of which had been previously ascertained, and allowed to remain pressed against the obstruction for a few seconds, so as to let the escharotic effect he produced. The operation being repeat- ed as frequently as the irritation induced by it permitted, at length enabled a full-sized instrument to pass. It may be readily imagin- ed that the process of cure thus conducted was necessarily very te- dious, painful, and dangerous. The successive applications of the caustic required intervals of several days, and the cure was seldom completed without very many operations of tlfis kind; sometimes a hundred or more. The irritation produced by the caustic not only excited excessive pain, but subjected the patient to the risk of com- plete retention of urine, swelled testicle, and other bad consequen- ces ; and if the caustic happened to drop out of the bougie, violent inflammation, with various injurious effects on the neighbouring parts, abscess of the perineum, &c. were apt to be induced. Mo- dern improvements in the apparatus for applying the caustic have in some measure obviated these objections. Instead of bein" car- ried down to the stricture by the simple but insecure means above- mentioned, it has been introduced into the strictured portion of the canal more accurately, safely, and efficiently, by various instru- ments, constructed on the following principle. A catheter, sti*aio-ht or curved, of full size, has a small perforation in its round extremi- • ty, to which a wire is fitted, so that when pressed at the handle or mouth of the instrument, it may be caused to project This wire has a slit a little way from the point for receiving the caustic, and when tlmust out at the opening of the catheter, after it has been pushed down to the seat of the stricture, will, if successfully ma-