BLOOD-VESSELS. 113 cnses, pressure, If ])ropcrly applied, will be fouud perfectly suffi- cient for the purpose. Axillary Aneurism, Next to the ham and groin, the axilla is the most common scat of spontaneous external aneurism. It generally begins in the form of a small circumscribed tumour, formed by the external coat of the artery, anil after increasing for a time gradually, suddenly en- larges upon rujjture of the sac. It then not only fills the axillary cavity, but projects beyond it. The first attempt to cure the disease in this situation by opera- tion wjis made by Pellctan, (1786,) who proposed to divide the cla- vicular origin of the ])ect<)ralis major, and thus expose the subcla- vian artery where it passes out below the clavicle. 11 is colleagues withheld their consent, and would sanction only a dive with the needle after the integuments were divided. This incfFective and dangerous attempt wjis tried, and of course proved unsuccessful, hlr Keate afterwards succeeded by executing the proposal of I’elle- tan (1800) so far as regarded the division of the pectoral muscle, but he also then plunged his needle in search of the artery. Mr Chambcrlaync operated more scientifically (1815) by dividing tbc muscle, and then dissecting down to the vessel. This operation is difficult, owing to the dejith of parts,—the ti-oublesome hemorrhage proceeding from branches of the thoranca. Immernria that lie in the way—the subclavian vein overlap2)ing tlio artery—and the close proximity of the large nerves going to form the cLxillary plexus, which arc aj)t to impose upon the surgeon, and be mistaken for tlie artery. It is also seldom admissible, owing to the height to which the disease generally extends upwards. The best mode of performing it, is to make an incision along the lower margin of the clavicle, from the coracoid process to near the ster- num, and tlien another about the same length, proceeding down- wai-ds from the acromial extremity of the former, in the direction of the space between the deltoid and pectond muscles. The clavi- cular origin of the latter being then divided, and any arterial branch that bleeds considerably having been tied, the surgeon, dis- secting down on the acromial side of the plexus of vessels' and nerves, in order to avoid the vein, will find the artery, and be able to include it in the ligature. The subclavian artery can be much more easily and advanta- geously tied above the clavicle, immediately after it passes out bc- u