PELVIS. 349 ever tends to produce this condition of the membrane will expose to the risk of stricture. Severe gonorrhoeas, in wliich the inflam- mation spreads back along the urethra,—irritating injections, al- lowed to enter the passage too far,—frequent indulgence in venery, —stone in the bladder or other parts of the urinary organs,—and habitual addiction to a diet that stimulates the parts concerned, may thois be regarded as causes of stricture. Besides this time organic stricture, some believe in the existence of a temporary constriction, depending on spasmodie contraction of the urethra. The circumstances which are supposed to afford evidence of spasmodic stricture, are the sudden invasion and disap- pearance of the disease,—^its connection with mental agitation,— and the tightness with which instruments introduced into the canal are sometimes felt to be embraced when an attempt is made to withdraw them. Mr Wilson accounted for these facts by referring tliem to the operation of muscular fibres lying along the urethra; but few anatomists have recognized these fibres, and even grant- ing their existence, the longitudinal direction ascribed to them does not agree well M'ith their alleged effect. Sir Charles Bell and others attribute the sudden alterations that are observed in the width of the passage to the action of the perineal muscles, and it is certain that the membranous part of the urethra is distinctly under their influence. But the whole extent of the canal manifests occa- sionally a contractile power, and such a limited source is, therefore, not sufficient to account for it. It seems, on the whole, most pro- bable, that the turgescence of the mucous membrane itself, or the erectile tissue which immediately invests its external surface, is the principal cause of the phenomena that have led to the belief in a spasmodic stricture. In an irritable stiite of the parts or system, the effects thus produced may be expected to be more remarkable than usual, and in the case of a real organic stricture existing, they will aggravate the symptoms of the disease. The symptoms of stricture are, 1. Difficulty in making water, owing to the resistance which is opposed to its escape by the narrow part or parts of the canal. The bladder, therefore, is slowly era])- tied; and its muscular coat becomes greatly thickened, so as to pre- sent an appearance simihu to that of the ventricles of the heart on their inner surface. 2. Small size of the stream, wdiich is usually spiral, forked, or tlribbling. 3. Pain, generally experienced during mictmntion, and seldom afterwards. 4. Frequent desire to evacuate the urine, which is most remarkable during the night, from the cir-