PRINCirLES OF SURGERY. 216 when it is not expected by the patient; hut unless it should seem practicable to accomplish the reduction in this way instantaneously, the limb ought to be extended slowly and steadily, since the effect of the stretching force in subduing the contractile energy of the muscles depends more upon its duration than its degree. Coaptation is more or less required according to the resistance which is opposed to the reduction by the shape and situation of the articular smdaces. As has been already remarked, it is gene- rally least usefid in the ball and socket-joints, and of most advan- tage in those of the hinge form. In the former, it is sometimes not required at all; and in the latter, it is occasionally sufficient of it- self to accomplish the operation. After the dislocation is reduced, the joint ought to be protected against the operation of those circumstances which tend to renew the accident It ought to be kept perfectly quiet, and frequently fomented, to allay the pain and irritation consequent on the lace- ration and bruising of the various injured pai’ts. It might be ex- pected that the immediate pain, as well as the danger of consecu- tive inflammation, would be greater in dislocation where the liga- ments are torn, than in strains where they arc only overstretched. But this is not the case, and though inflammation, both acute and chronic, may no doubt result from the former accident, it is seldom followed by any serious bad consequences of this kind. "When the dislocation is not reduced, the bone acquires adhesions to the neighbouring parts round the margin of its articular surfoce, and by its pressure often induces absoiqition of the surface it comes to act on, so that a cavity is formed for its reception, and a sort of new joint produced, which enables the patient to regain considera- ble use of the limb. While this process is going on, the old arti- cular hollow gradually contracts, and ultimately becomes oblite- rated ; so that, if the bone were displaced from its new situation, it could not be returned to its original one. The time that may elapse before reduction becomes impracticable, varies with the age of the patient and the nature of the joint concerned, fi-om two or three weeks to as many months. It is longer in old pcojde than in young, and in dislocations of ball and socket-joints than in those of hinge- joints. Shoulder-Joint.—The head of the humerus may be dislocated downwards, forwards, and backwards. The first of these displace- ments is the most common, and ha])pens more frequently than the dislocation of any other joint. The accident is caused by external