PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 496 containing the white oxide with sulphur, in the proportion of a drachm of each to the ounce. The nitrate of silver, applied either in substance or strong solution, is sometimes employed. The black-wash, and other metallic solutions, are also occasionally use- ful. Restoration of the Nose. The nose may be defective as a fault of original formation, or from the effects of violence, or in consequence of ulceration. The want of this feature not only causes a most disagreeable deformity, but impaii's the sense of smell, and exposes the patient to annoy- ance from the entrance of foreign matters into the nostrils. In- genious practitioners have endeavoured to construct a substitute for the lost part, by attiiching in its place a flap of skin taken from some other part of the body. There are two methods that have been chiefly followed in doing this, which are named the Italian, and Indian. The former was contrived and practised by Taliaco- tius. It consisted in dissecting from the arm a flap of skin, unit- in" one of its edges to the face, while the other remained attached to the arm, and after the union was completed, separating the piece of skin entirely from the arm, foshioning if properly for re- presenting the nose, and completing its union with the face. This operation seems to have been repeatedly performed by Taliacotius, and some of his contemporaries, but has not been adopted in mo- dern surgery. The Indian method is simpler, and better calcu- lated to attain the object in view. It is executed by dissecting from the forehead a flap of skin sufficient for constructing the ab- sent feature. The size and shape requisite for this purpose having been determined by fitting apiece of card or wax into its place, and then expanding this upon the forehead, where its extent is defined by marking the skin round it with ink, the flap is detached, with the exception of a narrow slip at its lower part, which is left to supply it with nourishment, and its edges are connected by stitches to raw surfaces formed where they are required on the face. Tubes are inserted into the nostrils to permit respiration, and a sufficient quantity of lint is introduced to give them the requisite shape. Cloths wet with cold water are then apiilicd to moderate the sub- sequent action, and promote union by the first intention. This oneration, which seems to be of very ancient origin, was first adopt- ed in this country by Mr Carpue.* It has since been frequently * Carpue. Account of Two Successful Operations for the Restoration of a Lost Nose. 1816.