18 PRINCIPLES OP SURGERY. it may bo said that tlicre arc hardly aii}^ in wliicli pain would otherwise ho inflicted where its use is not desirable for the patient, and incumbent upon the practitioner to propose. At an early period of our information on this subject, it was thought that in a state of collapse or extreme depression from weakness, fatal sinking would he apt to result from the cftect of chloroform. But so far from this being the case, it lias been found that the most serious operations may he performed under the influence of this agent in circumstances of the most extreme exhaustion, with results infinitely more successful than could have been anticipated otherwise. Thus the only example of permanent recovery after amputation at the hip-joint which has occurred in Scotland, was effected three years ago through the use of chloroform in a case where I performed the operation under chloroform, upon a patient apparently about to sink under the exhaustion of disease, and who, instead of shewing signs of depression from the liberty taken with his frame, awoke from his sleep with a smiling countenance, as if he had expe- rienced relief instead of mutilation. In operations upon the mouth or nose and neighbouring parts, involving these cavities, it has been generally deemed inexpedient to employ chloroform, lest during the patient’s unconsciousness blood should enter the air passages and cause suffocation. Through careful attention to position and other circumstances, it has been found that the danger thus antici- pated may be avoided ; and if the operator is perfectly familiar with the whole process concerned, he may almost always ab- stain from inflicting pain even upon occasions of this kind. But if proper coolness and self-possession on the part of the surgeon and his assistants cannot be considered certain, it will be better to concentrate their attention upon the oi)eration without any such embarrassment. A.MPUTATION. Amputation at the Ankle. In the year 1842, I proposed a new mode of performing amputation at the ankle-joint, which seemed to free this ope-