7 INFLAMMATION, tural tendency to its separation fi’om the blood, both wliile it cumu- lates in the vessels, and after it is witlidrawn from the body. Nature of Iifiatnmation. The beat, redness, and swelling which attend inflammation, na- turally suggest the idea that the blood of the part is increased in quantity and moving force. Before the circulation of the blood was discovered, and it was supposed that this fluid moved from the liver, then regarded as the somce of its formation, to all parts of the body, inflammation was referred to a jjreternatural flow, or determination of its stream in some j)articular direction. After the discovery of Harvey, tlmt the blood incessantly perforins a double circulatory movement, the heart being regarded as the great or rather sole cause of its motion, it was readily concluded, that inflammation must be owing to some obstruction, wliich checked the progress of the blood forwards, while the vis a tergo, viz. the contraction of the heart, continued in operation. This obstruction, it was thought, might proceed from one or more of the following sources; morbid lentor of the blood—error loci of the globules—and spasm of the extreme vessels. The two first of these were the doctrines of Boerhaave, the last that of Hofiinan, but better known in this coun- try as advocated by Cullen, The morbid lentor or tliick state of the blood was inferred to exist from the apparent redundance of fibrin, as shown by the huffy coat; and it was thought that the small vessels, being imable to transmit their contents, thus render- ed more viscid tlian usual, might occasion the obstruction in ques- tion. The same effect seemed likely to result from an error loci, or entrance of the globules into vessels not fitted for their recep- tion. This opinion rested on the belief that the stnictiu-e of the globules was very complicated, each red one consisting of six se- rous, and each serous of six lymphatic globules, for the conveyance of which, vessels of three different sorts and sizes were provided as channels of communication between the arteries and veins. In this view of the case it seemed probable that a globule getting into a wrong vessel might obstruct all those belund it The tliird doctrine of obstruction referred it to inordinate contraction of the orifices which the capillary vessels were supposed to possess. It will be shown below tliat mere obstruction is not sufficient to account for the symptoms of inflammation, but the hjq)othetical causes which have been mentioned arc inadequate to produce even this effect. The blood, so far from being more thick and viscid