117 BLOOD-VESSELS. Wardrop has recorded two cases, in which the patients are said to have been relieved from carotid and subclavian aneurism by tying the vessels respectively ; and one of aneurism of the innominata, in which Mr Evans operated successfully by obstructing the carotid. The general observations which have been made above on this sub- ject, render it unnecessary to say any thing farther in regard to it here. The temporal artery, from its exposed situation, and also the ope- rations to which it is subjected for the abstraction of blood, occasion- ally proves troublesome in practice. I have met with a small circum- scribed aneurism of it originating from external violence \vithout the infliction of a wound. In this case the best mode of procedm’e is to make an incision through the skin, and dissect or j)ull out the sac completely, so as to leave merely the orifices of the vessel, which may then be tied as usual. Hemorrhage from wounds, whether in- tentionally or accidentally inflicted, may in general be suppressed by carefully employed pressure,—a piece of cork wrapped in lint being applied, over the part, and secured firmly in its place by a narrow roller, carried round the head and crossed repeatedly over the compress ; but if the bleeding has not been effectually restrain- ed at fu'st, it becomes more obstinate from its continuance, by dis- tending the cellular substance, and impeding the effect of external pressure. In these circumstances, there should bo no hesitation in cutting through the seat of the injury in the direction of the vessel, sej)arating the integuments a little on each side, and then passing a ligature under the artery by means of a sharp needle, first on one and then on the other side of the breach. Internal Aneurisms. "When aneurisms are seated so as not to be within reach of sur- gical operation, they belong to the province of the Physician. The only remedy they admit of is the treatment of Valsalva, and in con- ducting it there are three circumstances of essential importance; First, That the treatment should not be commenced until the sac I has attained a considerable size, so as to favour the desired coagu- I lation ; Secondly, That the patient must be retluced to the utmost I degree of weakness, compatible with recovery; and. Thirdly, That Itliis must be accomplished, not by a small bleeding every third or fourtli day, which would probably produce excessive rcfiction, a state most unfavourable for attaining the object in view, but by fre-