432 PIIINCIPLES OP’ SURGERY. terior to the surface of the brain, which is then usually more or less malformed. The disease is either acute or chronic; in the former case, occurring suddenly as a consequence of inflammatory action; and in the latter commencing insidiously without any sucli antecedent syinjitoms. Acute Hydrocephalus may hike place at any period of life, hut is most common in children. The quantity of fluid seldom exceeds an ounce or two, and death is caused pro- bably not more by the pressure of the water than by the destruc- tion of the cerebral substance occasioned by the inflammation which attends the effusion. The chronic form of the disease al- ways commences in childhood, and is not unfrequently congenital. The accumulation of fluid slowly increases, and the bones of the cranium not being united, are separated by stretching of their con- necting membranes, so as to allow the quantity at length to weigh several pounds, without much interfering with the functions of the brain, which becomes expanded into a bag-like form, and loses all trace of convolutions except on its inferior surface. The patient in such cases has the power of locomotion diminished, and his body becomes excessively attenuated; but existence is often prolonged for many years, and may at length terminate in a way not connected with the disease of the brain. The great object in treating acute hydrocephalus is to subdue the primary inflammation, since the case is nearly hopeless when eftii- sion takes place. It is evident that the mere removal of the effused fluid by operation, though it might for a little diminish the symp- toms of pressure on the brain, could not afford any permanent ad- vantage, and the operation for this purpose would necessarily be attended with the danger that attends all wounds of the cerebral substance. Few attempts have accordingly been made to cure the disease by puncture, and the results of these confirm the unfavour- able opinion of the })ractice that was previously entertained on theoretical grounds. In chronic hydrocejihalus, the accumulation of fluid constitutes the whole of the morbid condition, and consequently evacuation of it may not appear an unreasonable mode of affording relief. The operation has, accordingly, been frequently performed, but not with such success as affords any encouragement to repeat it. This will not ajipear surprising, if it is recollected that, in all other drop- sical swellings, paracentesis hardly ever affords more than tempo- rary relief, and that, in the particidar case under consideration, there are circumstances peculiarly opjmsed to a more jicrmancnt 4