28 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. into disrepute, except in the trefitment of Sciatica, where it is of the greatest service. It would seem that the effect of acuj)uncturation is proportioned not to the number of the needles, hut to the depth they are introduced, and the time they are allowed to remain. I generally use only one, and leave it for two hours, Choice and Combination of the means which have been nmitioned in treating Liflammation. General bleeding is of no use as a preventive of inflammation, imless it removes some derangement of the system, or counteracts its tendency to excite inflammation. It has most effect at the com- mencement of inflammation, and is most beneficial when there is great power of action. It is better to take a large quantity of blood at first, so as to produce some decided effect, than to bleed frequent- ly by small portions. When it is found necessary to take away a large quantity of blood, an opiate given immediately afterwards is useful, by diminishing the tendency to reaction, and a small bleed- ing of a few ounces is often serviceable, with the same view', if prac- tised soon after the first one, just when the symptoms of returning action appear. After the force of the disease has been broken by bleeding, pur- gatives and diaphoretics are proper. It is usual to premise the mercurial and follow them up with the saline ones. The tartrate of antimony is the best diaphoretic, and, by powerfully diiiiinisliing the tendency to violent action, in a great measure supersedes the necessity of bleeding, except at the commencement of the attack. Lociil bleeding is of most service, in treating acute inflammation, as an adjunct to the measures of a general kind. Blistering is most useftd in chronic inflammation, and ought never to be em- ployed in other cases until by bleeding, or some other means, the power of action has been lessened. All the other modes of coim- tcr-irritating are most advantageous in, or rather entirely restrict- ed to, chronic inflammation. Opiates and astringents are most beneficuil, both externally and internally, when there is much irritability, or tendency to act more than in proportion to the strength of the ])art or system. Resolution.—When the symptoms of inflcimmation subside they do not leave the part aftected altogether in its natural state. It generally remains for a time somewhat swelled, tender, and unfit for the performance of its duty, whence it requires rest, mechanical support, and gentle stimulation. ;l I LUML