446 IMUNC1P1.es or SrRGERY. very well for this purpose, if applied every second or third day. When they are seated on the face, caustic, and all other ap- plications likely to excite irritation, should be carefully withheld from them; and if itching, pain, or increasing size at any time in- dicates activity, and probable perversion of their nutritive action, excision ought to be immediately performed. Corns consist of a thickening or induration of the cuticle, in- duced by pressure, which excites the secreting action of the cutis. The toes, particularly on their lateral aspect, are most liable to this occurrence; and it appears that there is great variety in the predisposition to the disease, which is possessed by different indivi- duals, The symptoms of a corn are precisely what a foreign body of similar size and consistence would produce, if placed in the same situation. They may be palliated by slicing off the most project- ing part of the induration, by wearing wide shoes, or avoiding walk- ing. The radicid cure is often attempted by detaching the corn from its matrix by means of a pointed and flat, but not sharp-edg- ed instrument,—which may be done very completely without bleed- ing, is always followed by great relief, and sometimes proves per- manently effectual. A better method is to soften the corn by touching it with acetic acid again aftd again until the whole is scraped out, and then apply the niti-ate of silver to the exposed sur- face of the cutis, to destroy its morbid secreting tendency. Corns are occasionally not hard, but soft, the cuticle constitut- ing them being white and moist. These soft corns, as they are generally, though not very correctly, termed, usually prove more troublesome than the others. They cannot be detached entirely,— and are apt to inflame, suppurate, and form obstinate sores, if sub- jected to irritation. Astringent applications, such as that formed by mixing together equal parts of alum and the white of eggs, of- ten afford great relief. Diseases of the Fingers and Toes. The Nail of the great toe often occasions much distress, by be- coming imbedded at one or both of its edges in the soft parts, in- stead of lying over and protecting them. This groicing in of the nail, as it is termed, depends originally in most cases on the pres- sure of a tight shoe, or on the projecting corners of the nail hav- ing been broken off accidentally, or cut away intentionally, with the erroneous \new of preventing them fi-om entering the flesh, since they are much more apt to do so when thus rounded off, than when