PRLNCIPLIiS OF SURGERY. 24>2 one which appears to be the most convenient. The patient being seated on a chair, and properly supported, the surgeon introduces a straight, sharp-pointed knife under the acromion, thrusts it down to the head of the humerus, and then cuts perpendicularly, close upon the bone, nearly as far as the attachment of the deltoid. He next carries the knife backwards and upwards from the inferior ex- tremity of the first incision, so as to divide the external part of this muscle, and having thus formed a flap, he dissects it from the sub- jacent parts, so as to expose the articulation. In order to detach the head of the humerus, he cuts transversely into tlie joint, intro- j duces the fore-finger of his left hand, and using it as a guide for \ the knife, separates the attachments of the muscles, which are in- i sorted into the greater and smaller tuberosities. The arm being then drawn across the breast, the head of the bone protrudes through the wound, and being grasped in the hand, may be readily sawn ofi". The glenoid cavity should next be examined, and taken away as far as seems necessary. The whole of the surface covered with cartilage should always be removed, and in general this will be sufficient; but sometimes the caries extends fertber into the bone, and in this case must be carefully followed out by the pliers or gouge. ^ . The only ai'tcry cut during the operation that in general requires a ligature is the posterior circumflex. The edges of the wound shoidd be stitched together, and some light dressing having been applietl, the arm ought to be supported by a spica bandage and sling. The patient need not be confined to bed beyond a day or two, or so long as the fever excited by the operation continues; and when the wound begins to heal, he must gently exercise the limb to prevent it from becoming stiff. Tlie c;redit of performing this operation for the first time has been ascribed to Mr Wliite of Manebester (1769); but there seems good reason for believing that the case being necrosis, not caries, he merely removed part of the exfoliation Inifore it had become de- tached from the living bone. The patient was a boy 14 years of age, who “ had been suddenly seized about a fortnight before with a violent inflammation in his left shoulder, which threatened a mor- tificiition, but at hist terminated in a large abscess, which was open- ed with a lancet a few days before his admission.” Tlirough this opening, and another that had fonned sjiontaneously under the