EXTERNAL INJURIES. 137 it has been disputed whether the operation ought to be performed immediately, or be delayed until the primary inflammation subsides, and suppuration is established. In reference to this question, the effects of gun-shot wounds may be divided into foim stages ;—1. Confusion and prostration of strength, commencing immediately after the injury is sustained, and lasting seldom less than one, or more than six hours, imless it terminates in sinking. 2. Return of strength, attended with more composure of mind, and sensation of the injury. This continues until inflammation begins, which is hardly deferred beyond twenty-four hours. 3. Inflammation, end- ing in death, gangrene, or suppimation, and occupying from one to several days. 4. Suppiu-ation, wliich continues imtil the patient recovers, or has Ids strength completely exhausted, and dies,—which may be in a week or two, or not until the end of months. Ampu- tation may be performed with most advantage in the second and foiuth of these stages. Different opinions were formerly entertain- ed as to which of them was preferable; but the extensive experience of the military siu’geons who were engaged in the Peninsular war decided the question ; and it is now adndtted that amputation dur- ing the second stage is out of all proportion most successful; to say nothing of the risk which men wounded on the field of battle must run, if permitted to go through the inflammatory stage, while their shattered Ihnbs are subjected to the irritation of rough carriages, and their constitutions injured by the unwholesome air of crowded hospitals. Should the surgeon find that his patient does not rally within the period usually occupied by the first stage, though assist- ed by the stimulating effect of wine or spfrits, he ought to afford the chance derived from removal of the limb, unless his strength seems at so low an ebb, that it would certainly sink under the shock of an operation; and, on the same principle, when inflammation has been allowed to come on, and proceeds to gangrene, amputation ought to be performed as giving the patient a chance, however small, of escape from otherwise certain death. Cannon balls not unfrequently occasion contusions without any breach of the surface, varying from the slightest ecchymosis to com- plete destruction of the subjacent tissues, so that they are reduced to a gelatinous pxdp. Sometimes when the contusion is sustained on the trimk, it causes instant death, in consequence of important organs being ruptured or otherwise injured. These effects used to be ascribed to the toind of the ball, or the air violently agitated hy