4 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. raises the thermometer from 92° to 98°. But if the disease elevates the general heat of the individual, the temperature of the inflamed ])art rises to the same degree, as in erysipelas, where the heat of the in- flamed skin is frequently 104°. Pain.—This is one of the most constant symptoms of inflamma- tion. It is generally proportioned to the violence of the disorder and the sensibility of the ]>art afiected; but there are many excep- tions to the latter part of this rule; and some tissues, as those of the osseous and fibrous kinds, which arc not all sensible in their healthy shite, occasion the most acute suffering when inflamed. The sensibility of every part in the body is increased by inflamma- tion ; and if this has ever been denied, it must have been from confounding insensibility to those stimidi, which require, for making an impression, that the organ to which they are applied shoidd per- form a functional action for their reception, with insensibility to chemical and mechanical stimuli, which always excite more sensa- tion when applied to an inflamed part, than to one in a healthy state. Thus during inflammation the eye may he unfit for vision, and the nose for smelling, wdiile the impressions of light or odours produce a painful effect. The pain of inflammation varies in kind ^ well as in degree; being sometimes hot and burning, as in the skin and mucous membranes, at other times sharj) and cutting, as in the serous membranes, or dull and aching, as in the bones. It is impossible, in the present state of our knowledge, to account for these varieties in the pain, or even for the existence of pain at all. It is usually ascribed to the swelling that accompanies inflam- mation causing jircssurc on the extremities of the nerves, whence it is said the most compact tissues occasion the severest pain ; but this explanation is not satisfactory, as many which possess the soft- est and most yielding structure excite excruciating jmin when they arc inflamed, of which the mucous membranes afford a remarkable example. The ]iain is not always felt at the part affected, but often at a distance from it, as at the point of the penis when the bladder is in- flamed, in the right shoulder diming inflammation of the liver, or in distant parts of the limb, when the joints are the seat of disease. We arc sometimes able to account partly for this by the nervous com- miuiications, but more frequently it is quite inexplicable, though highly deserving of attention in a practical point of view. Derangement of Functional Action.—This symptom of inflam- mation cannot, of course, attend the inflammation of every tissue.