riUNCirLES OF SUKCiERY. 332 tion, their insidious approach rendering the patient unaware of tlieir presence, even when distinctly marked. In carcinomatous contraction of the rectum, the patient suffers the symptoms which have been described, and also those attendant upon that kind of morl)id degeneration, viz. lancinating pains, not constant but se- vere, an almost cartilaginous hardness of the rectum, which is felt if the finger be introduced to the diseased part, and frequently ex- tends to the skin surrounding the anus; also, when the disease has advanced to the ulcerated stage, a fetid sanious discharge from the anus, together with involuntary evacuation of thin feculent mat- ters. In females, a communication with the vagina is often esta- blished, and allows the contents of the bowel to escape by it. The appearance of the patient further characterizes the nature of the case, being thin and cachectic-looking, and exliibiting the greenish- yellow complexion usually observed in persons labouring under malignant disease. In ti’cating simple stricture of the rectum, if it should appear that the contraction depends on congenital malformation, which it is important to know sometimes escapes observation until an ad- vanced period of life, the best com'se is to divide the constriction freely with a knife, and afterwards interpose dressing sufficient to })revent immediate closure of the wound or its subsequent contrac- tion. But if the stricture be the result of diseiised action in the coats of the gut, which has caused thickening and induration of them, the best remedy consists in the introduction of bougies suc- cessively increased in size, which by inducing interstitial absorption in the parietes of the intestine, gradually restores them to a natu- ral state. Bougies, for this purpose, are employed of various ma- terials, such as steel, elastic gum, wood and glass. The two first arc the best. They should be slightly curved to facilitate their en- trance into the rectum, and, if metallic, have a bulging extremity to render their j)assage through the strictime more distinctly per- ceptible. Before being used, they ought to be heated by immersion in warm water, and anointed witli some unctuous substance. There is no advantage in allowing them to remain for any length of time after being introduced. They shoidd therefore be immediately withdrawn, and ought not to be employed again before an interval of three or four days. Cancer of the rectum is no less incurable than in other situations, and, of course, could not be excised with- out inflicting a mortal wound, unless of small extent, and confined to the verge of the anus; all, therefore, that can be done for the pa-