lt)6 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. be used with caution, since the patient, if he survives the immediate danger, will have to supj)ort a copious and profuse suppuration; and those means which subdue violent action without permanently weakenmg the system, ought to be prefeiTed. Of these the tartrate of antimony, and opiate injections, are the most efficient. So soon as the inflammatory tension begins to subside, the relaxing appli- cations must be changed for those of a stimulating, astringent, and discutient kimL The lotions of acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, &c. are the best adapted for this purpose. Coimtcr-openings, if required, should be made to aftbrd the matter free vent, and pres- sure must be carefully effected by compresses and bandages, while tlie most unceasing attention is bestowed on the preservation of proper position and perfect rest. The patient’s strength requires of course to be supported by nourishing food. Pieces of bone oc- casionally become detached during the cirre, and delay or prevent it, they ought therefore to be diligently searched for and extracted. When the injury is so severe as to preclude the possibility of recovery, amj)utation must be performed. The circumstances ta be taken into account in determining on this proceeding are, 1. The state of the soft parts; 2. That of the blood-vessels and nerves; 3. That of the bones; and, 4. That of the patient’s constitution.. It is possible that any one of these circumstances may be so unfa- voimable as to render the measure in question necessary, but it more frequently happens that the surgeon is influenced by several or all of them in deciding on the operation. In civil practice it is not requisite to discriminate very accurately on such occasions, since, unless the state of the limb is manifestly so bad as to render recovei’y impossible, an attempt ought always to be made to save it. For if the bones are carefully replaced, and the means which have been mentioned are employed to prevent and moderate action, both local and general, the patient will not be exposed to much risk in the first instance; and if his strength should prove uncnpuil to the exertion required of it in the future progress of the case, the amj)utation may be performed with a more favourable j)rognosis than in secondary amputations after gun-shot wounds in military warfare. Particular Fractures. Hands and Feet.—The phalanges of the fingers and toes, owing to their shortness and mobility, arc little subject to fracture. The iujury, when it does occur, is readily recognized, and easily treated