PELVIS. 373 tomy, and provided with very imperfect instruments,—but never- theless extracted the stone with such invariable facility and dis- patch, that though many of his patients died, and comparatively very few made complete recoveries, he acquired great reputation, and the friendship of some of the most distinguished surgeons in Paris. Through their assistance he supplied the defects of his edu- cation, and afterwards operated in various countries with distin- guished success. The important truth having thus been ascertained, that the bladder could be cut without any fatal or injurious con- sequences, the attention of surgeons took a different direction, and a variety of methods and instruments were contrived for cutting the same parts that had been previously torn. It is unnecessary to consider these particularly, as the operation practised and described by Cheselden, (1720) though perhaps not differing materially from that of some other surgeons both in this country and abroad, has been generally regarded the standard for imitation. The lateral operation of Cheselden consists in making a free in- cision of the perineum,—opening the urethra at its membranous part,—and continuing the cut through the prostate gland, oblique- ly outwards and downwards. The simplest mode of effecting this is to use a scalpel, or other knife, that may be under the surgeon’s command ; but as it requires an accurate acquaintance with the re- lative situation of the parts concerned, and considerable manual dex- terity, to divide the prostate safely with such an instrument, various apparatus have been contrived for cutting in the requisite direction, and to a sufficient extent, merely in consequence of their form and construction, and without the necessity of precise guidance on the part of the surgeon. But after a hundred years’ experience of such substitutes for operative skill, it is now almost universally admitted that the simple knife is by far the safest means for the purpose, and it does not seem necessary to enter here into any description of the obsolete procedures which used to occupy so large a portion of sys- tematic surgical writings. The instruments required are, 1. a grooved staff to guide the knife in cutting into the bladder. It ought to be of the largest size that the urethra will readily admit, which is usually about No. 11. of the bougie scale,* and the groove shoidd be very wide and deep, neither on the side nor convex sur- face, but in the intermediate space, so as to correspond with the di- rection in which the incision is carried. !Mr Aston Key has recom- mended a straight staff,—which certainly has the advantage of con- • Equal to No. 14 of the scale generally used in London.