412 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. In regard to the hemorrhage, great apprehension has been enter- tained lest the cord should be reti-acted by the cremaster muscle, and the artery withdrawn beyond reach of the ligature. This has led to many coarse and dangerous expedients, such as tying the whole cord previous to its division, or including all its vessels together except the vas deferens. Violent pain, fever, inflammation, convul- sions, and even death, were the consequences of this practice, which is now abandoned, the artery being tied alone; but the fetm of re- traction still excites uneasiness during the operation. It, therefore, seems necessai’y to remark, that, as the cremaster muscle is attach- ed very near the external ring, it cannot withdraw the cord except to a very small extent, and that, if the artery retires at all, it must do so in consequence of its own elasticity. Retraction on this ac- count may be expected in proportion to the size of the tumour, the raj)idity of its gi’owth, and the nearness to the external ring, of the point at which the cord is di\dded. In no case, however, will it be necessary to use any force in retaining the vessel, and the assistant may readily secure it either behvecn the nails of his thujub and fore-linger, or with forceps. Besides the spermatic artery, there are always several, and sometimes so many tis seven or eight vessels coming from the groin and perineum, that requu-e to be tied. Such being the principles to be followed in performing the ope- ration, it may now be right to explain succinctly the mode of pro- ceeding. Tlie patient should be laid reclining on a table or bed, with the thighs widely separated, and the hair of the ])ubis shaved off. The surgeon then gi’asping the testicle in his left hand, makes with a scalpel two incisions, commencing at the external ring, and uniting at the bottom of the tumour. He next cuts down to the cord, where these incisions meet above, passes his finger under the vessels, and then desires the assistant to lay hold of them. He now divides the cord as low as is consistent with entire removal of the disease, and pulling the lower end of it towards him, turns out the testicle, which may be detached very raj)idly with a few strokes of the knife, while the penis and sound testicle arc drawn aside. The spermatic artery, and any branches of the pcrincid or inguinal vessels that threaten to bleed are then tied, the cavity is filled, but not stuffed, with lint, and a T bandage is lastly applied, to afford the requisite support Sarcomatous Enlargement of the Scrotum. The scrotum is liable to an enlargement, which seems to consist