BLOOD-VESSELS. Ill those of the intestines. If, therefore, the aorta could be tied with- out the infliction of a mortal ■wound, there is reason to believe tliat a cui’e might thus be accomplished in anem’isms ascending too high for being remedied by ligature of the iliac. In dogs and other animals, having long and thin loins, it is not difficult to tie the ar- tery, by making a longitudinal incision between the lumbar and abdominal muscles, and timning aside the peritoneum. In the hu- man subject, there is not room enough for proceeding in this way, and the only practicable method seems to be that first adopted by Sir A. Cooper, as a forlorn hope, in a case where the patient was re- duced to the very point of death by hemorrhage from an iliac aneurism. He cut through the parietes of the abdomen in the linea alba, turned aside the intestines, cut through the peritoneum again, and tied the vessel. This operation may be performed with- out much difficulty, but it does not seem probable that the compli- cated dangers attending the double wound of the peritoneum, the handling of the intestines, and the shock caused to the system by suddenly impeding the circulation of the great arterial trunk, would leave the patient any chance of recovery. Sir A. Cooper’s patient lived thirty-eight hours, and the circulation of the sound limb re- turned. His death was ascribed to its not doing so in the affected ' one, which was probably owing to the great extent of the aneurism obstructing a long tract of the artery and its branches, and conse- quently requiring the blood to be transmitted through many suc- cessive anastomoses. Ligature of the Arteries of the Superior Extremity. Aneurism seldom or never occurs below the axilla, except as a consequence of wounds, and then, of coimse, has its sac formed en- tirely by the cellular substance exterior to the vessel. This hap- pens most frequently at the bend of the arm, owing to the lancet being used incautiously, so as either to ti’ansfix the median basilic vein, and puncture the hmncral artery which lies under it, or to open the radial or ulnar arteries instead of veins, which, when com- ing off high and running superficially, they very much resemble. When either of these disagreeable accidents unfortunately occurs, strong pressure should be exercised over the wound, a bandage being applied tightly from the fingers upwards to support the arm in bearing it. If one of the smaller arteries is concerned, this treatment will probably prevent the formation of an aneurism, and' if the trunk of the humeral itself is wounded, though the chance of