EXTERNAL INJURIES. 141 jury 13 slight, that is to say, if the part affected still retains its vi- tality, 1 believe that cold applications and cotton will in general prove most useful; and if the texture of the part be destroyed, there can be nothing better than a poultice or the usual moist dres- sing, imtil the sloughs separate. In either case, idceration sooner or later is established, and then the treatment will be the same for both. Should the patient’s strength prove inadequate to support the tedious and exhausting process of cure, if the part affected is seated on a limb, it ought to be amputated. Poisons. By poisons are understood agents which have the power of de- stroying the structure, or inducing disturbance in the actions of the body, independently of mechanical violence and temperature. Those which directly affect the structure are named Escharotic Poisons, or simply escharotics. Of these the most powerful are the concentrated mineral acids, potass, and some metallic salts, as the nitrate of silver and oxymmiate of mercury. They are fre- quently used intentionally to remove morbid structures, &c. and are then named Caustics. Occasionally, whether from accident or design, they are applied so as to produce serious injuiy. In such cases, as their effect is generally completed before surgical assist- ance can be procured, the only treatment admissible, is that which promotes separation of the slough and healing of the sore. Poul- tices, until the first of these stages is completed, and then stimu- lating washes, afford most benefit. Poisons, more strictly speaking, are those agents which produce their effects independently of chemical properties, as well as me- clianical force and tcmperatvu’e; they do not directly alter the structure to which they are applied, but produce such changes in its natural actions as frequently give rise to the most important local and general consequences. A very large proportion of the articles comprehended in this class are employed to produce their effects in order to relieve the system from other diseases, whence they are named not poisons but medicines, the former title being reserved to denote those which are distinguished by the malignity of their action. The only poisons wliich pi’esent subject for surgical con- sideration are afforded by the animal kingdom, and may be divid- ed into, 1. Those which exist naturally in the animals that yield them ; 2. Those which are the results of diseased action ; and 3. Those which depend on changes after death.