203 BONES. its commencement may be mistaken for a solid exostosis or car- tilaginoiis growth; but as the cysts enlarge and approach the surface, the tliinness of their parietes betrays the nature of the case. This disease occurs most frequently in the earlier periods of ’ adult age. So long as it retains the characters of the cystic tumour, it may be regarded as free from any malignant action; but this mor- bid structure seems to have a disposition to change into medullary sarcoma. The best mode of treatment is early and free removal of the bone affected, if puncturing the tumour, or laying it open by free incision, has not the effect of curing the disease. Rachitis or Rickets. By Rickets is understood a morbid state of the osseous system, in which the bones are soft and flexible, being converted into a substance more like leather than bone; having a brown colour and cartilaginous consistence, wdth no appearance of marrow, but nu- merous irregvdarly circular and oval cells, even in the parts natu- rally most compact, containing a brownish-red fluid. The disease does not directly cause pain, but occasions great inconvenience by allowing the bones to bend under the weight of the body, and con- traction of the muscles. It is accompanied with weakness and de- rangement of the whole system, the symptoms of which are a pale and sickly countenance, tumid abdomen, flabbiness of the muscles, and unhealthy evacuations. The earliest perceptible alteration of the bones is in the wrists, which become pretematurally large, and are apt to excite the suspicion of fracture. It is confined to the period of childhood, and seldom begins later than the second or third year of age. It affects chiefly the offspring of young or un- healthy parents, and occurs most frequently in cold moist climates. It terminates either in death or in a return to health, after months or years of duration. Contrary to w’hat might be expected, rickety bones are readily broken by slight degrees of violence, and their re- paration in such cases is effected by cartilage, so that the bmb re- mains moveable, as if it had a false joint at the injured part ^Vhen the bones regain their healthy nutritive action, they become as hard and unyielding as usual, retaining, however, the curvatures which have taken place during the softened state. The new osseous sub- stance wbich is deposited during their subsequent growth, occupies chiefly the concave side of the arches into which they are bent, where it has most effect in strengthening their power of resistance, and gives them a remarkable flattened shape.