261 TENDONS. of matter found under the thick skin of the pai’t affected. More frequently, in addition to this, there is more or less sloughing of the tendinous structure, and not rarely death of the phalanges. The causes of paronychia are generally local irritations, but it is pro- bably necessary that their effect should be favoured by a state of the system predisposing to derangement. The only effectual treat- ment consists in making a free incision through the tense and swollen parts. There is reason to believe, that if this were done soon enough it would generally prevent the subsequent suppuration and slougliing; but the opportunity of interposing thus early is seldom afforded, and the incision is iisually practised to evacuate matter. Much mischief is often done by continued poulticing in such cases. Under this influence the matter is long of making its escape by ulcerative absorption, and the opening, when at last formed, is always too small for allowing free exit either to it or the tendinotis sloughs. The irritation, therefore, is kept up, esj>ecially by the retained sloughs of the tendons, and the destruction of the tissues proceeds. There is no advantage in poulticing previoiis to incision, and tho\igh useful for a day or two afterwards in promot- ing the separation of the matter and sloughs, it ought not to be persisted in longer than this, as lotions with pi'essure ai'e much more beneficial. When the tendons slough so extensively as to render the finger rigid and useless, amputation is the most prudent course; and the patient will generally decide upon it sifter being made fully acquainted with the reasons for its performance. The distal plm- lanx often dies, along with a portion of the tendon, but the extre- mity of the finger ought not to be removed on this account, as it is of great consequence to preserve the secreting organ of the nail, which renders the finger, though shortened, little less useful, or seemly than it was before. Ganxjlion, By Ganglion is understood a tumour connected with a tendon, composed of a bag containing a glairy fluid, and varying in size from that of a pea to that of a pigeon’s egg. There is a differ- ence of opinion as to the nature of ganglions, the question being whether they are entirely new formations, or merely develoj)- ments of the natural serous structure connected with the tendons. Though arguments might bo adduced to support the former of these opinions, it seems on the whole move rea.sonable to adopt the latter.