90 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. that arteries retract more wiien torn,—that the edges of the orifice arc killed by the violence, and therefore induce more speedy coa- gulation of the blood,—and that the internal coats are more exten- sively ruptured than the external one, so as to form irregular folds or projections into the cavity. Every opportunity of ascertaining the truth by actual examination, and they have not been few, luis tended to confirm my o])inion, showing that the internal and middle coats terminate abruptly by a smooth circular edge, as if cut by a Jigature, and that the external one forms a conical bag containing coaguhtted blood. In some constitutions there is a remarkable disposition to bleed, so that the slightest woiuids become troublesome, or even dange- rous. Tins hemorrhagic tendency is generally observed most dis- tinctly in children,—is associated with both fair and dark com- plexions,—is frequently hereditary, and can be discovered only by experience of its effects. The means employed artificially for conducing to the cessation of hcinoiThage, may be referred to the ligature, pressure, and st\-p- tics. The use of the ligatimc was introduced by Ambrose Pare irf the latter end of the sixteenth century. He, and still more his successors, applied it injuriously by including a j)ortion of the sur- rounding tissues to give it a secure hold. Pare employed large broad-bladed forcej)s, willed crane-bill from their shape; but the instrument generally preferred was a curved needle, which, being thrust through or around the vessel, together with the parts adjoin- ing, subjected to the ligature a mass not only quite superfluous, but which likewise was aj)t to occasion great inconvenience by shrink- ing subsequently so as to render the ligature loose, by delaying its sej)aration, or by exciting inflammation. Mr Hromfield (1772,) jiointed out the propriety of tying merely the coats of the vessel, and introduced into general use for this ])urpose the Tenaculum, which had been j)reviously recommended by C’heselden. It con- sisted of a sharj), curved, round needle fixed in a handle, and was employed to transfix and draw out the mouth of the artery, so as to let the ligature be tied alniut it. The common dissecting for- cej)S until lately almost superseded the tenaculum, as rendering the insulation of the vessel more easy and complete; but are now little used, in consctiuence of the more convenient instrument, rejiresent- ed, Plate II. Fig. 4, having been introduced, chiefly through the re- commenchition of j\Ir Piston. The best material for the ligature is stm/ silft, of such strength that twenty-four yards of it weigh one drachm. It ought to be waxed previously to Ix'ing list'd.