42 rniNCIPI ES OF SURGERY. CHAPTER IV. ABSORPTION. By Absorption is understood an excess in the action of removal over that of deposition in the nutrient vessels. The effect of this is necessarily a diminution in the bulk of the part concerned, which may be cither of the surface or the substance. Absorption, therefore, is distinguished into supei-ficial or ulcerative, and inter- stitial. It may occm* in both situations as a consequence of inflamma- tion merely, without reference to the exciting cause; but much more fi-equently it depends upon some peculiarity of local irrita- tion, which either occasions it directly, or indirectly through the in- tervention of inflammation. The most common exciting causes of absoqjtion are pressure, and the presence of something not naturally existing in the body. It frequently removes fluids effused into the interstices and cavi- ties, and when inadequate to effect this, generally opens a passage for their escape externally, by removing the parietes containing them to such extent as is necessary for effecting an aperture. Foreign bodies which excite more irritation than what is suflScient for causing the effusion and organization of IjTuph around them, very frequently obtain their discharge by a similar process of inter- stitial absor])tion. It is imporant to notice, that, though the pres- sivce or irritation excited by the foreign matter, one w'ould suppose must be equal on all sides,—the absorbing action always takes place in the direction of the nearest external surface, unless an internal one lined with mucous membraue should be very near, when the process proceeds towards it It is by ulcerative absorption of the surrounding living tissues that sloughs are detached. The means which may be employed for inducing absorption, arc ])ressurc, stimulating lotions, such as those containing vinegar, sjjirits, and muriate of ammonia, blistering ointments, and liniments containing mercury and iodine,—also the internal use of the two last mentioned medicines, in various forms.