GENITAL ORGANS. 403 torn, and at an equal distance from both sides. Tlierc is liere least risk of wounding any large vessels, and the greatest separation of the tunica vaginalis from the testicle, to avoid which more effectu- ally the instrument ought to be pushed gently and steadily through the pai-ietes of the swelling, while they are held tight with the left hand embracing it, and directed not perpendicularly to the surface, but obliquely upwards. As the testicle is not by any means con- stant in its position relatively to the swelling, and as the tunica va- ginalis is liable to })artial thickenings, which would very much op- pose the free introduction of the trocar, the operator should never proceed to puncture until he has examined the parts, and satisfied himself that there is no obshvcle in the way of the instrument This simple operation is proper in cases where it is not certain that the water will be again collected, and when the state of the patient’s constitution, from age or other circumstances, renders it imprudent to excite any more than the most gentle irritation. It ought always to be performed, before the radical cm-e is attempted, when the swel- ling is very large, or when it is necessary to ascertain, by examining more accurately than can be done while the water still remains, that the condition of the testicle is not opposed to the success of the ope- ration required for this purpose. Various methods have been employed for effecting the perma- nent cure of hydrocele. Of these the following may be mentioned : Incision, Excision, Caustic, Seton, and Injection. The last of these is now almost universally preferred, and it will, therefore, be sufficient to notice the others very shortly. Incision, which is the most ancient practice, consisted in laying the cavity of the distend- ed tunica vaginalis freely open, and inducing its obliteration by the granulating process. Inflammation and constitutional distur- bance were the necessary consequences of this operation, and not unfrequently proved so violent as to occasion gangrene and death. The plan of Excision, though of very old origin, was chiefly ])ractised in the latter part of the last century. It consisted in cut- ting away an elliptical portion of the integuments, together with the whole of the tunica vaginalis, where not adherent to the tes- ticle and cord. This operation, though more tedious and painful in its execution than the former, occasioned less severe conse- quences, and was followed by a moi*c speedy cure, owing to the serous tissue being in great part removed. The Caustic was ap- ])lied in the same way as for making an issue. The aperture aiused by it eould not of course heal by the first intention, and