229 JOINTS. direct operation of exposure to cold. It is met with, however, oc- ciisionally in the strongest frames; but then the irritation is always direct and severe; such as fractiu’e of the patella or femur, es- pecuilly in its lower third, or a violent strain. The effusion gene- rally appears almost immediately after the injury is received, and is at first attended with more or less acute symptoms of inflamma- tion. It is readily recognized by the swelling and fluctuation which are caused by its presence. The enlargement reaches as far up the thigh as the synovial membrane extends, it fluctuates when sub- jected to pressure, and the patella is felt to float as it were, so that it may be made to strike upon the condyles of the fcmui’ if pushed downw’ards with moderate force. The means employed for treating this affection must vary with tlie acuteness of the inflammatory symptoms which attend it In tlie first instance it is often necessary to cup or leech and foment tlie joint while constitutional remedies of a co-operative kind are at the same time administered. When the sw'elling ceases to be painful, but continues still more or less red, tender to pressure, and unable to bear motion, a cooling discutient lotion may be used with advantage. Finally, wlien there is no longer any inrlication of excited action, and the only inconvenience that remains is merely that occasioned by the presence of the fluid, the joint should be blistered once or oftener, according to the extent and duration of the disease, and then carefully bandaged. In cases of a rheumatic kind blisters may be employed at an earlier stage with advantage. For some time after the cure is completed, the patient should w'ear a j laced knce-cap, to j)rotect the joint from the various external injuries I to wliich it would be exposed in consequence of its weakened state. i : Moveable Cartilages in Joints. I Small moveable bodies are occasionally met with in the cavities ' of the joints, either quite detached or connected with the parietes of the articulation by a narrow neck. They have a glistening peai’ly lustre, and when divided are found to consist of a gristly substance Inclosed in a firm capsule, witli a bony nucleus in the centre. They are of various magnitudes, from the size of a bar- leycorn to that of a pigeon’s egg, and are also very different in their shape, which is generally round, ovjil, or lenticular, but somo- ' times tuberous. They exist cither singly or in numbers together,^ ! but seldom exceed two or three. They have been discovered in many of the joints, but are by far most common in the knee. Plven