TENDONS. 259 C(1 to them, and it not unfrcquciitly Imppeiiis that tlie tendons of the ju'nniform nuiseles of the thuinh or wrist are di'awn out to the ex- tt'nt of five or six inches. It might be expected that gi*eat irrita- tion and diffused inflammation would result from such injuries, hut the wound in general heals kindly, as if not conij)licated with any uniisual pccidiarity. It is a prudent precaution, however, to oppose the commencement of inflammation by using cold applications in the first instance; and if it should occur, incisions, together with warm fomentations, if the symptoms ai*e violent, and the latter means alone if they are moderate, will be proper. When suppu- ration is established, compression along the course of the sinus, sti- mulating washes, and bandaging are recpiired. Tendons are more frequently ruptured by the too energetic ac- tion of their muscles. The tendo Achillis is most liable to this ac- cident, and, uidced, with the exception of the tendon of the exten- sors of the thigh, is almost the only one in which it occurs. It has been supposed that the thread-like tendon of the plantaris may be rujitured without a corresponding injury of the great tendon of the lankle, and that such is the case where patients suddenly after ex- ertion lose the power of extending the foot, while no \'acuity can be felt in the course of the tendo Achillis. But there can be no doubt that on such occasions the injury sustained is rujitiu-e of the mus- cular fibres, jirobably of the soleus. It is difficult to conceive that the loss of so small a jiower as that of the plantaris muscle should render the jiatieut unable to move the ankle; and the jiain, disco- loration, and tedious recovery which are usually observed to attend cases of the kind in question, arc additional gi’ounds for believing :hat the injury is seated in the muscular tissue. The tendo Achillis is usually ruptured in consequence of some I violent exertion in raising the body, or preventing it from falling. ; The patient feels a sensation as if struck with a blunt wc^apon. It ’ ■ieems to him that his heel has sunk into a hole, and a noise as of a ; :ord giving way is occasionally heard, both by him and the by- .tandei’s. Wlien the limb is examined, a hollow may be felt at the ! >art where the tendon is torn, owing to the retraction of its extre- nities. The patient, by means of the deep-seated extensors of the ; iikle, retains the power of extending tlie foot slightly when there i no resistance except its own weight, but cannot do so with any onsiderable force, such as is required in walking. Strong adult aales are most subject to this accident.