116 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. sequence, to prevent any risk of injuring the internal jugular vein, w^hich lies on the outer side, and overlaps the artery. The par vagum being situated behind the vessels, is hardly in the way of harm. The convexity of the needle ought to be turned towards the vein. The bold operation of tying the arteria iniiominata was first per- formed by Dr Mott, (1818) on account of subclavian aneurism. The ligature separated on the fourteenth day, and every thing seemed to be going on favourably, when a week afterwards bleed- ing commenced from the wound, and recurred from time to time, until the patient’s strength was completely exhausted, which hap- pened on the twenty-sixth after the operation. Graefe tied the ar- tery, (1822) with a similar result. The ligature separated, and | the patient seemed to be safe, but died at the end of two montlis from hemorrhage. It thus appears, that when a ligature is ap- | plied so very near the heart, the danger of bleeding continues I longer than in other situations, owing probably to the great force of the blood which issues directly from the heart tending to break through the weak and recently formed obstruction. Perhaps the danger might be diminished by weakening the action of the pa- tient’s system by depletion for some time after the ligature is de- tached. The operation, though important and dangerous, is not very dif- ficult. Two incisions should be made of nearly equal length, which may be about two inches, one upwards from the sternum, along the inner edge of the stemo-miistoid, and the other transversely, from the same point across the sternal attachment of this muscle. The flap of skin thus formed being reflected, the sternal attachments of the stenio-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, must be divided to a sufficient extent for bringing into view the sheath of the vessels, which ought to be opened as if for the ligature of the carotid. This vessel having been exposed, if traced down, will lead to the iniiominata, round wliich the needle should be passed very carefully, with its convexity turned towards the sternum, in order to avoid the pleura and great venous trunk. In aneurisms at the root of the neck, not admitting of the liga- ture being applied between them and the heart, Mr AVardrop lias lately recommended the practice suggested by Brasdor, of tying one or more of the vessels proceeding fi'om the sac, so as to cause stagnation of its contents. * The jiroposal is reasonable, and Mr * Wardrop on the Cure of Aneurism by a New Operation, 1828.