MOUTH. 473 on such occasions from the preternatural orifice. The use of soft or fluid food, and pressure applied to the gland, afford some pal- liation of these complaints; but the radical cure of them requires the re-establishment of a passage into the mouth, and obliteration of the external aperture. Both of these objects may be readily obtained by introducing a small seton through the cheek, from the fistula, into the mouth, withdrawing it after the lapse of a few days; and then, having rendered the edges of the external opening raw by paring them with a knife, uniting them together by means of tlie twisted suture. Until the cure is completed, the patient should subsist on fluid articles of nourishment, and abstain from moving the jaws by speaking, or any other exercise of them. Tlie neighbourhood of the parotid gland is frequently affected with diffused inflammation and suppuration of the cellular sub- stance, which, owing to the presence of a thin but dense fascia lying over this part of the face, does not form a prominent tumour, and spreads extensively instead of pointing. The patient in con- sequence suffers great and protracted distress, until an incision is made to let the matter escape. hlorbid growths also often occur here, and by causing absorp- tion of the parotid in pi-oportion to their own enlargement, at length sometimes completely take the place of the gland. These tumours are generally of the fibro-cartilaginous kind, usually con- taining cysts in their substance, and tending at length to assume the medullary sarcomatous action. Blistering and iodine oint- ment occasionally check the increase, or even excite the removal by absorption of enlargements in this situation; but when they prove obstinate, the only remedy for them is the knife. If the morbid mass is deeply seated, it may be necessary, in effecting its excision, to cut not only the common trunk of the temporal and internal maxillary arteries, but also i\\Qportio dura, or facial nerve, the consequence of which is an unseemly and distressing paralysis of the face. In such circumstances, therefore, unless the progress of the growth is rapid, or there should be reason to dread its speed- ily assuming malignant action, it will be advisable to abshiin from any operation. When it is thought proper to remove the tumour, a free crucial or elliptical incision of the integuments should be made, according to its size and shape, so as to facilitate the subse- quent dissection. After the whole of tlie external surface of the tu- mour has been exposed, its anterior edge should be elevated, and turned back by degrees, as tlie subjacent connections are divided.