220 PRixcin.Es or surgery. half-bent, and allows a slight degree of flexion and extension ; any attempt to increase the former being attended with a sudden snap or catch, owing to the head of the radius, which lies over the co- ronoid process of the ulna, striking against the humerus. I have seen in one case the flexion continue quite free. The form of the fore-arm is altered, being round, instead of flat from side to side. AVhen the hand is rotiited, the radius is felt rolling under the ori- gin of the flexor muscles, and a cavity is perceived where its head ought to be. Both forms of this accident result either from direct violence sustained on the elbow, or from falls on the hand. The reduction is very easy if performed early, and requires merely that the hand should be extended while pressure is made on the head of the bone, and the elbow is bent. The extending force is made to act on the hand, in order to concentrate it as much as possible on the radius; since, if acting on the ulna, which has not been displaced, it could not do any good. Lateral dislocations of the elbow are occasionally met with, and when examined early may in general be easily recognized by the alteration of shape and mobili- ty which attend them. The reduction is effected chiefly by coapta- tion, and is not difficult, unless the parts concerned have been al- lowed to become rigid and adherent. Wrist-Joint.—The wrist often appears to be dislocated, owing to the swelling and immobility which it suffers in consequence of ex- ternal injury, but these symptoms in the great majority of cases are merely the effects of sprains; and real dislocation of the joint is an extremely rare occurrence. It may take place in two directions, forwards and backwards, the bones of the carpus being driven i;p- wards under either the extensors or the flexors. The causes are falls on the hand. The rediiction is effected by extending the hand, and pressing on the dislocated bones. Thumb.—The first or proximal phalanx of the thumb is occa- sionally dislocated from its connection with the metacarjial bone, in consequence of falls or blows. It is driven upwards and back- wards, where the extremity can be felt distinctly, while that of the metacarpal bone is not less perceptible on the jialmar side. The reduction of this a])imrently trivial displacement has been generally found very difficult, and sometimes altogether impractica- ble, the reason of which would seem to be, that the lateral ligaments of the joint remain more or less entire, and being pressed aside by the wedge-shaped extremity of the metacarpal bone in passing be- tween them, afford a serious ohstacle to its return. The best mode