PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 308 which takes place before the cavity of the tunica vaginalis ceases to communicate with that of the abdomen. The neck of this process of the peritoneum usually l)ecomes impervious soon after the de- scent of the testicle, which generally happens about a month before the time of birth. But if the obliteration is delayed longer, or the foetus is subjected sooner than this to the circumstances which in- duce the formation of hernia, the viscera are apt to descend into the same bag with the testicle, so that the sac is formed by the tunica vaginalis. The merit of detecting this Congenital hernia is usual- ly ascribed to Percival Pott, but unjustly, as Haller first discovered the descent of the testicle and continuity of the tunica vaginalis with the peritoneum, and also suggested the probability of hernia in in- fants taking place in that way, while Dr William Hunter first esta- blished the truth of this explanation by dissection. The contents of Inguinal Hernia usually consist of a portion of the ileum, with more or less of the omentum. Sometimes the caput caecum dcscei>ds by a gradiial extension of its cellular connections, and in this case the intestine of course is not comj)letely inclosed in a sac. The sig- moid flexure of the colon also may be protruded, and, though more apt to descend on the left side, has been found on the right, while there ai’c not wanting instances of the caput caecum being discover- ed on the left. The Hernia is named Enterocele, Ejnplocele, or Entero-epiplocele, accordingly as it contains intestine or omentum alone, or both together. There is no limit to the size of the pro- trusion, which varies from mere fulness in the situation of the in- guinal apertures, to a size nearly equal to the whole intestinal canal. The causes of heniia may be divided into those which predispose to the disease, and those which immediately give rise to it. The predisposing causes are circumstances which diminish the resistance that opposes the exit of the viscera. Of these the sex of the patient may be mentioned first, since the lai’gcr size of the inguinal canal in males renders their predisposition to the disease greatly superior to that of females, so that the proportion which the cases of the for- mer bear to those of the latter is at least an hundred to one. Ema- ciation and relaxation of the body diminisb the resistance remarka- bly, and some persons seem to labour under a natural peculiarity of stnicturc that exposes them more than others to the disease. The exciting causes consist in the o])cration of more than usual com- pressing force acting on the viscera of the abdomen. Such force is exerted during every energetic effort, especially if made with the