156 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. fore it divides the tibia; the arteries are then to be tied, and the flap stitched into its place. It is a good precaution to remove the projecting comer of the tibia which would be apt to irritate the soft parts during the cure, either by means of the cutting pliers, or by sawing a little obliquely before making the transverse section of the bone. When it is necessary to amputate the leg liigher than the mid- dle, the operation by circular incision is less objectionable, while that by flap is not so advantageous as in the lower part of the limb, since, by the former method it is here possible to obtain an ample covering of integuments for the bone, and a muscular cushion is not so much required, the patient in this case resting his weight on the knee, not on the face of the stump. The flap mode is still, however, preferable, on account of its dispatch, being less painful, and leaving the parts in a favoimable state for uniting. If any cir- cumstance ever render it necessary to operate by the other method, a circular incision should be made through the integuments, about three inches below where it is proposed to divide the bones. An assistant then grasping the leg with both hands, pulls the skin up- wards, while the surgeon by some slight touches of the knife de- taches its connections with the fascia. The muscles having been exposed to the extent of rather more than an inch, should be cut through by a strong steady sawing motion of the knife, and then, a piece of cloth or leather, split longitudinally into three portions, being introduced to retract the parts between and on both sides of the bones, the saw is to be applied, as has been already explained. The edges of the integuments should be brought together laterally, so as to forai a vertical cicatrix. The tibia cannot be cut liigher than its tuberosity, and the head of the fibula should never be disarticulated, as the insertion of the biceps is thus detached, and a risk encountered of exciting inflam- mation in the joint, by opening bursae connected with it Amjmtation of the thigh ought always to be performed by mak- ing flaps; they should be two in number, and may Ihj lateral, an- terior and posterior, or oblique. The state of the limb must to a cert^n extent determine the choice of these modes; but wherever it is practicable, the second ought to be preferred—since the flaps when made from before and behind, lu-e least apt to suffer displace- ment in regard to the bone—and, on the whole, are found to prove most convenient. The limb should never be removed lower than the middle, no advantage being derived from saving a larger