riiiNcirLEs or surgery. 440 mucous membranes of the lungs and intestines are often in an ex- i cited state, giving rise, by their increased secretion, to crepitation \ in breathing, and diarrhoea. The disease is extremely distressing, and in general very obstinate, recurring again and again after the jirincipal attack appears to have been subdued, but it does not often prove hital. When death does ensue, it happens either from derange- ment of some internal organ, especially the brain and lungs, or from exhaustion caused by the continuance of the fever. Erythema is sometimes associated with an inflammatory state of the subjacent ] cellular substance, which is distended so as to cause a piiffy sort of | swelling, and generally soon afterwards becomes the seat of puru- j lent effusion, or not unfrequently of sloughing. : The disease generally appears in persons on the surface of whose | bodies there is a solution of continuity. This may be either recent i or of old standing, but the latter condition seems on the whole most favourable to attacks of the disease. The patient is rendered more liable to be attacked by having a bad constitution, or one disorder- ed by an unhealthy mode of life. The grand exciting cause seems to be some peculiarity of the atmosphere, such as that existing in crowded, ill-ventilated hosj)itals, or even in open situations during particulai* seasons. In such circumstances, the wound, if recent, is often nearly healed before the erythema appears. The erythema commences in the neighbourhood of the sore, and then leaving the skin there in its natural state, travels over the trunk or limbs, or nearly every part of the body in succession. There is hardly any treatment of a local kind that can be used with advantage. Leeching or cupping the inflamed part affords relief for the time, but seems to have no effect in arresting the progress of the disease. Of internal remedies, the most useful in the first instance arc eme- tics, which sometimes appear to cut short the morbid process. The mercurial and saline purgatives, with gentle diaphoretics, should be frequently administered,—blisters applied to the epigastrium seem very serviceable,—and opiates have often a remarkably good effect in soothing the sensation of heat on the surface of the body, j)ro- curing sleep, and otherwise diminishing the uneasy symptoms of the disease. General bleeding can rarely be used with propriety, and stimulants are more frequently required, especially in the more advanced stage, when nutritive soups, wine, and opiates, ought to be given freely and assiduously. In those eases where suppuration or sloughing of the cellular substance takes place, incisions must be made with freedom.