PRINCIPI.ES OF SURGERY. 20 of the brain becoming more and more completely suspended, be loses all power of sensation and voluntary motion—he is no longer able to stiuid or sit—there are frequently slight tremors of the muscles, and in some rare cases violent convulsive contractions of them—he makes some deep inspirations and expirations—looks \vildly about him, and falls into a state closely resembling death, wliich is named Syncope. Syncope occiu's most readily when the patient is in an erect posture, and a very large quantity of blood may be wathilrawn without inducing it if he lies horizontally. The most effectual method of recovering one from tliis state is conse- quently to lay him down with lus head on the same level as liis body. The quantity of blood which must be abstracted to induce syncope in ordinary circumstimccs is extremely variable. Sometimes several pounds may be withdra^vn before its symptoms appear, and at other times a few ounces are sufficient for the purpose; the j)atient’s men- tal alarm has a considerable share in producing the effect, but in general sixteen or twenty mmces arc reqiiired. When the patient is very w'eak, or very largely depleted, the syn- cope either passes directly into death, or is succeeded by an inter- mediate state, named Sinking. In this condition the pulse is small, feeble, and intermittent; the countenance is deadly pale, and be- dewed with clammy moisture : the extremities are cold, and the pa- tient has a distressing sensation of w'eakness. He lies in a dozing state; and when roused from it, takes some time to recollect his situation, often at first expressing liimsclf incoherently. His breath- ing is uneasy, being performed with dilatation of the nostrils, and is frequently attended with slight crepitation, or mucous rattle in the chest. This state, after continuing for hours, or it may be even for days, terminates in recovery or in death ; the latter being usually preceded by hiccup and vomiting. When the quantity of blood abstracted is not too great, in pro- portion to the strength of the patient, there is a recoveiy or reac- tion of the system. After an ordinary syncope, the sjTuptoms go off in the inverse order of their approach ; and when the patient lias completely regained liis faculties, it is generally observed that the actions which were suspended are performed with a slight degree of excitement. This is most observable with regard to the pulse, wluch is rather more sharp and frequent for some time afterwards than it was before, provided the patient did not labour under miy febrile disturbance. Tliis excess of reaction is observed to be proportioned in degree 4