401 GENITAL ORGANS. Diseases of the Testicle. Liflammation, or Hernia Humor alls. Tlic Testicle is excited to inflame by a variety of circumstances, of which the most important, in respect to their eflPect or frequency, are bruises, wounds, gonorrhoeal inflammation, either spreading kick along the continuous surface between the urethra and testicle, or suddenly suffering a mefcistasis to the latter situation, and the irritation proceeding from strictures, or the means employed to cure them. The symptoms are pain, hardness, and swelling, with more or less redness; and, in acute cases, there is not only feverish disturbance of the system, but also sickness, vomiting, and consti- pation, similar to those attending strangulated hernia, in conse- quence of the testicle being connected, m its sympathies, with the viscera of the abdomen. When the inflammation is intense, it may prove Altai; but, in general, it is merely productive of temporary distress, and exposes the patient to the risk of serous effusion, chro- nic enlargement, and alteration of structure, which are frequently its consequences. The most violent cases met with are those caus- ed by wounds of the gland; and such injuries are, therefore, regard- ed as dangerous, particularly in irritable constitutions. The treatment of inflamed testicle must be regulated by the cir- cumstances of the case. If there is redness of the skin, and other indications of acute action, blood should be abstracted locally, either by applying leeches, or opening some of the veins of the scrotum with a lancet If the latter mode is chosen, the patient should stand erect while the veins are punctured, and as long as it is desired that the blood should flow. Warm fomentations applied to the scrotum, emollient injections thrown into the rectum, occasional doses of castor-oil, and a strict antiphlogistic regimen, are the other means of most use, and, when the symptoms are very severe, should all be administered, together with tartrate of antimony and opiates, to allay the tendency to excessive action. Injections of tobacco infu- sion into the rectum have also been found beneficial. In mild cases it is generally sufficient to evacuate the bowels freely, enjoin rest in the horizontal posture, and apply a lotion of acetate of lead with opium to the scrotum. After the pain and tenderness have sub- sided, a degree of swelling frequently remains, for winch gentle frictions, with camphorated mercurial ointment, or other discutient ajiplications, should be employed, but with due caution, so as not to occasion a relapse, by producing too much irritation. c c