PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 54 a nail in the surface of the sore. They have a yellow or greyish- yellow coloiu’, and are devoid of granulations. Rapidly extending and coalescing, they entirely alter the aspect of the ulcer, which, partly from swelling of its edges, and also from phagedenic action, at the same time becomes much increased in extent A soft spon- g}' slough of a dirty white colour next presents itself, generally ex- tending over the whole surface, but varying in its thickness. While these local changes are in progress, and apparently keeping pace with them, a general derangement of the patient’s system is ob- served. He acquires a sickly yellow aspect, loses his sleep and appe- tite, and has an extremely quick pulse, together with the foul tongue, and all the other symptoms of feverish disturbance. By- and-by, in the course of a week or ten days, the state of matters begins to imjmove; the sore gradually regains it former characters, and, though often very much increased in size, usually heals more quickly than might be expected, the general health undergoing a correspondent change. After trying a great variety of treatment without any sensible benefit, I have for some years past come to re- gard the attack as one that should be trusted very much to sponta- neous recovery. It is more troublesome than dangerous; even in the cases of compound fracture and amputation, hardly, if ever, leading to the loss of limb or life, but merely protracting the cure. A poultice seems the best dressing that can be applied until the sloughs begin to separate, and the only internal remedies that appear use- ful arc laxatives in the early stage to regulate the bow^els, and a mo- derate allowance of wine in the more advanced period of the com- plaint Ulcers jirevented from Healing hg Peculiarity of Action. It was formerly thought that all the ulcers, which resisted the means of increasing and diminishing action, owed their obstinacy to peculiarity of disposition, w'hence they were named specific sorea It is now^ w'ell ascertained that a very large proportion of these so called specific ulcers depend on some irritation, direct or indirect, after the removal of w'hich they readily heal.* The most common cause of irritation in such Ciises is that which proceeds from sup- pression of the secretions, especially those of the digestive organs, the remedy of which consists in correcting the patient’s errors in regimen, and subjecting him to an alterative course of medicine. For this purpose nothing answers so well, in general, as restricting * Abernethy on the Constitutional Origin of Local Complaints.