226 PRINCirLL'S OF SURGERY. the sterno-raastoid muscle, and by the mobility of the clavicle and depression of the shoulder that proceed from it The dislocation is readily reduced by elevating the shoulder, and pressing down the sternal extremity of the clavicle, but returns so soon as the restraint which produces these effects is removed. A bandage, therefore, sufficient to retain the bone pennanently in its proper position, should be applied; and the apparatus best calculated for doing tliis, consists of a sling to support the arm, together with a compress placed on the end of the clavicle, and secimed by means of a figure of 8 bandage. The acromial extremity of the clavicle is also occasionally dislo- cated ; but this accident requires no })articidar consideration, as its causes, symptoms, and treatment are the same as those of fracture of the acromion, or acromial extremity of the clavicle. VertebrcE. — The vertebrae are very seldom dislocated without fracture or moi’bid alteration of the bones; and in all cases the ac- cident is of iniportance cliiefly in resj)ect of the organs contained within the vertebral column, along with wliich, therefore, it may be more properly considered. Wounds of the Joints, and Compound Dislocations. The synovial membrane is very prone to acute inflammation, which causes violent constitutional distiu-bance, and leads to the most destructive morbid alterations. Wounds of the joints, there- fore, must always be regarded as serious injiu-ies; and the more so in proportion to the size of the joint, and degree of irritation which accompanies the wound. The great object in treating such wounds should be to make them heal if possible by the first intention, which, of cotu*se, pre- vents the necessity of inflammation as the precirrsor of granulating action. With this view, all sources of iiTitation, whether direct or indirect, that may seem to exist, ought to be removed. If there is tlisplacement of the articulating surfaces, they ought to be ac- curately reduced, which is generally effected with ease, owing to the laceration of tlie surrounding parts; and if the head of a bone protrudes so as to resist moderate force employed for this purpose, it must be cut away with the saw or pliers, since the distension that w'ould be caused by its pressure woidd excite inflammation. The edges of the wound should be ])laced in confiict, and assidu- oiisly cooled by wet cloths frequently changed, while motion of the lind) is carefidly prevented by the application of splints. The con-