PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 146 subsequently becoming still more diminished in length by the xm- opposed effect of their contractility, coxild never he made to meet over the hone, which often protruded during the cure, and requir- ed to exfoliate or be shortened by the saw. Hence its permanent covering was merely a thin adherent cicatrix; and even in more favourable circumstances, when the integuments united over the bone, the covering of skin thus afforded to it, did not constitute a good protection. The most simple and effectual plan for covering the bones pro- perly was obviously to form one or more flaj)S from the part of the limb most able to supply them; and there can be no doubt that this mode of operating would have long since come into general use, had it not been that prejudice in favour of the circular incision diret ed the attention of practitioners almost entirely to improving it The operation by flap was performed occasionally diuing the last centiuy and a-half, and recommended by various surgeons who practised it more or less extensively. Lowdham, of London, seems to have been the first of these, (1697,) and he w'as followed hy Ver- duin, (1696,) Koenerding, (1698,) Sabourin, (1702,) and Vermale and Ravaton, (1793.) Towards the conclusion of last century, it was advocated by several of our coxmtrymen in amputating the leg, of whom may be particularly mentioned Messrs White, (1760,) O’Halloran, (1765,) Hey, (1770,) and Alanson, (1780.) Of late years it has come into general use in tliis country', cliiefly through the example of Mr Liston. The great advantages of this method are, 1. Tliat it is much more quickly performed, and consequently much less painful to the patient than the circular incision ; 2. That it cuts the parts smooth- ly, and leaves them in a state favourable to union; and, 3. That it affords a much better covering for the hones than can be obtain- ed from any modification of the other operation. The flaps may bo formed by cutting obliquely inwards to the bone,—^by transfixing the limh and cutting outwards,—or by first cutting inwards, so as to obtain one flap, and then outwards to form a second. The particular circumstances of the case often render one of these modes preferable to the others; but when the surgeon has his choice, he will generally find transfixion the easiest method. The size of the flaps, and proportion of muscle and intogument com- })osing them, must be regulated by the thickness of the bone, and laxity of the soft parts. The flaps ought to be cut longer than would he sufficient to constitute a well-formed stump in the dead