43 GIIANULATION. CHAPTER V. GRANULATION. Effects of the Granulating Action. The term Granulation is applied to an action, which repaii*s breaches in the continuity of the surface that are not healed by primary union. Such breaches may be caused either by violence or absorption, and in both cases are named Ulcers. An ulcer may be defined to he a solution of continiuty in a natimal surface, se- creting matter. When a wound does not heal by the first intention, it begins about twenty-four hoims after the injury has been sustained to be painful, and attended with the other symptoms of inflammation. A thin serous discharge oozes out from it, and by-and-hy the surface acquires a uniform a])pearance, whatever he the tissues wliicl compose it, owing to an effusion of lymph that seals up the interstices of the cellular substance, and forms a thin superficial covei-ing. About the third day, sooner or later, according to the activity of action, the incrustation of lymph becomes organized,— it acquires a red coloiu’, bleeds when touched, and before many days have elapsed, shoots up into small granular projections, whence the process is named. These granulations are small, pointed, firm and vascular,—they ai*e covered with a fine pellicle, and secrete a peculiar thick straw-coloured fluid named Pus, the properties of wluch will be more particularly described hereafter. The wound is now, properly speaking, an ulcer, and the subse- quent process of healing is the same as in ulcers caused by ahsoiq)- tion. The incqimlity of surface, if any existed, gradually disap- pears, the bottom of the ulcer becomes regulaidy concave, and at length there ceases to be any difference of level between it and the surrounding parts. While these changes are hddng place, the extent of the breach is daily diminishing, by a general contraction of the surface. Then a fine blue pellicle is observed at the edge, wliich increases in breadth, and at last covers the small remnant of the ulcer that is not closed by the contraction just mentioned.