443 SKIN. By Anthrax or Carbuncle, and Funmculus or Boil, are implied different degrees of a similar affection of the skin, consisting in an in- flammation fixed to the part where it occurs, but tending to spread in its extent, attended with intense pain, and terminating in'suppuration, with more or less sloughing. The disease is met wdth of all sizes, from that of a pea to that of a plate. It occurs, when large, generally on the posterior surface of the trunk between the occiput and sacrum, and, if small, chiefly on the face and hands. In other parts of the body it usually attains an intermediate size. There is usually little swelling, but great induration. Small apertures take place spon- taneously in the progress of the disease, but as these depend on detached suppurations in the substance of the thickened cutis, they prove quite useless for allowing the matter and sloughs to escape. The irritation consequently continues, — the disease enlarges its area,—and if of large size, or seated in a weakly subject, may at length prove fatal. In general, the disease is more distressing than dangerous. It is always preceded by derangement of the system, though it frequently happens that no marked symptom of this attracts attention, until the local appearances present themselves. A state of too full health, or assimilation of food disproportioned to the patient’s exercise, and also an irritable state induced by intem- perance, and derangement of the biliary secretion, are the condi- tions most favourable for producing the disease. It often exists in various parts of the body at the same time, or occurs in them suc- cessively. It is always accompanied with feverish disturbance, pro- portioned to the extent and acuteness of the local symptoms. The treatment of all the degrees of this affection should be con- ducted on the same principles. The first of these is to relieve ten- sion, bleed from the part, and afford free vent to the confined mat- ters, by making a free crucial incision completely through the inte- guments to the full extent of the disease;—the next is, to promote the cleaning of the cavity, by applying soft poultices;—and the third is, to correct the predisposing states of the system, which ap- pear to have induced the morbid action, by bleeding, purging, sootliing, or stimulating, according to the circumstances of the case. When the boils are numerous and small, the local treatment that has been recommended would be more severe than the disease war- rants, and may therefore be omitted, while the constitutional means are diligently enqdoyed. In the opposite extreme, where the car- buncle is of great extent, it is of the utmost consequence to proceed