ruiNciPLEs or surgery. 276 it ini])roj)orly directed, or urged with undue force, may be readily j)ushed into the posterior mediastinum, or elsewhere througlithe coats of the canal. In this case the action of deglutition tends to pro- pel foreign matters into the new aperture, instead of the strictured oesophagous, and s])cedy death is the almost inevitable consequence. The tliird kind of stricture^ or that which depends on morbid de- generation of the oesophagus, causing a tumour in its coats, and which may be named the malignant or carcinomatoiis stricture, is met with chiefly in persons of advanced age. It usually occurs at the ordinary situation of other strictures, that is, behind the cri- coid cartilage; but sometimes takes place lower down, near the cardiac extremity of the tube. The symptoms are those of simple stricture, together with those attendant on morbid formations of the kind in question. The patient feels lancinating pain, more or less constant and severe, in the part affeeted. A tumour can often be perceived by external examination of the throat. There is occa- sionally a bloody, foul discharge; and the patient’s countenance acquires that greenish-yellow complexion which characterizes a system labouring under malignant diseiise. As it is evidently im- possible to effect excision of the tumour, the disease must be re- garded as truly incurable; and any attempts with caustic, or the sira})le bougie, instituted cither from misapprehension of the na- ture of the case, or an ill-grounded expectation of promoting ab- sorption of the morbid structure, must prove injurious by increas- ing the j)aticnt’s sufferings, and hastening flic progress of the dis- ease. This kind of sfricture, as well as the one depending on sim- ple contraction, is simulated by malignaut disease of the stomach, which therefore requires to be carefully discriminated. This is best done by passing a moderate sized bougie. Dronchoccle. * By Bronchocele is understood a tumour depending on enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland. The moi-bid growth is usually most akin to the simple vascular sarcoma ; but soijietimes consists, partly or entirely, of cysts, aiid has also been found to contain calca- reous masses bearing some resemblance to bone. The swelling varies in size, from the slightest pcrce])tible degree of fulness, to a magnitude that occupies nearly the whole space betw'cen the chin and sternum; and extends forwards tis well as laterally in large round irregular projections. Its consistence is soft and elastic, and a section of it exhibits a yellowish granular structure. The ves-