A POTATION. 19 ration from the objections previously alleged against it, and render it an advantageous substitute for removal of the leg in many of the cases wliicli admitted of the latter measui'c as the only alternative for the patient's relief Having frequently had occasion to amputate the leg for caries affecting the respective surfaces of the astragalus and os colds, and leaving the ankle-joint perfectly sound, I was led to consider whether or no it might be possible to remove the whole disease and retain a useful support for the body, by performing disarticu- lation at the ankle, and saving the thick integuments of the sole of the foot to form a cushion to cover the ends of the bones. This experiment was tried in the hospital on the 20th of Septem- ber 1842, with complete success, as will appear from the follow- ing letter addressed to me by the gentleman who committed the patient to my care, four years after the operation was performed. “ Duxbar, 4</i June 1846. “ My Dear Sir,—It gave me great pleasure to hear, by yours of the 2d instant, that the boy Fargie’s case is likely to termi- nate so satisfactorily. “I sent for the boy Wood, whose life was saved by a similar operation, executed by you two or three years ago (September 1842, age sixteen). I examined most carefully the slump, which was all sound. Ho had had a renewal of the false foot since he had seen you. He told me he suffered no inconve- nience from the stump, or the slightest tenderness. He has become a country tailor, and has often ten and fifteen miles a-day to go to his work ; still he feels no discomfort. He says, he, with a few of his young comrades, ran off to see the opera- tions of the North British Railway at Pcnmanshiel tunnel, and must have walked fully thirty to thirty-five miles, without feeling his amputated limb. “\ou,may rely upon it, nothing can be more satisfactory than this case of the boy Wood ; and if Fargie's and all similar cases prove, under your hands, as successful, amputation at the ankle-joint, and its effects, will prove the greatest blessing to the human race, especially those unfortunates so afflicted.—I am, my dear Sir, yours most faithfully, “ Tiios. Aitciiison.” Encouraged by this result, I soon afterwards operated in the same way on a gentleman of high scientific character in this