MUSCLES. 253 tsistance of any mechanical means; since the action of standing or ' walking is of itself sufficient for restoring the limb to its proper ! shape, so soon as the opposing muscular contraction is removed. In (one remarkable case, where both feet were affected, the patient, . a young man who was about to Siiil for Australia, walked without j any assistance, before the end of a week after I had divided the tendons. JVry-Neck. The sterno-mastoid muscle occasionally becomes contracted, and t causes a very awkward distortion, the head being drawn towards the clavicle on the side affected, while the face is turned in the op- posite direction; and unless relief he soon afforded, the trunk is apt to suffer a degree of lateral incurvation, from the want of due balance at its upper extremity. Attempts to remedy this defor- mity, by division of the muscle, were made at an early ])eriod; but being effected by free incision of the integuments, proved severe in their execution, and unsatisfactory in their results. About ten years ago, I thought of performing the operation in the way of subcuhi- neous incision, by means of a knife so narrow-hladed as merely to puneture the skin. The patient was instantly and comjjletely re- lieved, without any pain or subsequent inconvenience. It appears that nearly at the same time Dieffenbach had adopted this method, and that ten years earlier it had been practised in one case by tlie late M. Dupuytren. Every case of wry-neck that has come under my care since the one just mentioned, I have treated in this manner with invariable success. The knife )*epresented (Plate III. Fig. 5) answers very well for the purpose, and is what I have always employed. I have seldom found it necessiiry to divide more than the sternal portion of the muscle; and should advise this to be done at the distance of an inch above the clavicle. No dressing or indeed after-treatment of any kind is required, since the distorted parts soon regain their natural position when the distm-hing cause of their proper balance has been removed. Strabismus. Strabismus or squinting, has always been known to depend uj)on unequal action of the recti muscles of the eye-hall, and the idea of affording relief by their division has occasionally presented itself, though not until lately carried into effect. It was only two years ago that Dr Dieffenbach first performed this operation with success, and