375 PEI-VIS. a-half high covered with a folded blaiiket, and under his head a pillow or two may be laid, but nothing to raise the shoulders. lie is then to seize the soles of his feet, one in each hand, which should rest on the fibular or outer edge, and by means of a strong tape or bandage have the limbs secured in this position, after wliich they are to be confided to two assistants, one standing on each side of the table. The staff having been introduced, is now to be com- mitted to a third assistant, who holds it up in one hand, and the scrotum in the other. The surgeon then seats himself on a chair, shaves off the hair from the perineum, feels the different parts that determine the place of his incision, and resting the fingers of his left hand on the skin so as to prevent any displacement of it, pushes his knife directly inwards at the anterior jx)int of incision to the depth of the perineal muscles. He cuts in the direction above- mentioned so as to divide the skin, fat, superficial fascia, and trans- verse muscle, gradually diminishing the depth of his incision until it reaches its posterior termination; then introducing the fore-finger of the left liand into the centre of the wound, to serve as a guide for the knife and protection to the rectum, he cuts from this point up- w'ards and downwards so as to divide the anterior part of the levator an?, and expose the membranous portion of the urethra, into which he makes an opening, and then, keeping the knife in the groove, while he satisfies himself, by taking the staff in his left hand, that it is held properly in the mesial plane close up against the pubis, he gives it again to the assistant, and pushes the knife steadily into the bladder, and fairly through the prostate; at the same time, with his left hand, holding down the rectum, and feeling what way is made with the knife. lie then introduces his finger into the blad- der, desires the stafi' to be withdrawn, and conducts in the forceps. He searches for the stone with the blades closed, and, having found it, opens them very wide, depresses, and then closes them. By gently relaxing liis hold, and renewing it, he shifts the position of the ciilcxdus, if unfavourable for extraction, and, with the assistance of his left fore-finger, proceeds to draw out the stone, not directly, but by a motion in alternate directions, so as to dilate the margin of the wound w'ithout tearing. Forcible efforts ought never to be used in doing this; and it is much better to introduce the knife again, if the opening proves too small. After one stone has been removed, the bladder ought to be searched for more, with a sound introduced through the wound ; and if any are detected, they must be removed in the same way as the first. Should the calculus be