485 MOUTH. the gum, leading to abscess, (gum-boil or parulis) suppuration of the cheek, followed by fistulous ulcers opening externally, ulcera- tion or purulent discharge of the nasal cavities, sore throat, and disorder of the digestive organs, are the most common of these; and their mere mention will be sufficient to show the importance of removing the stumps of decayed teeth. This is done by means of an instrument named a punch, which should be forcibly pushed into the socket close to the stump, in a perpendicular direction, and theu, by moving the handle to one side, made to loosen and elevate it. Hemorrhage occasionally occurs to a troublesome or even alarm- ing extent after the extraction of teeth or stumps. The best appli- cation is dry lint forcibly pressed into the cavity, which proves much more effectual than tlie use of caustic or the actual cau- tery. Abscess of the Antrum. The cavity of the maxillary bone is liable to become the seat of abscess in consequence of the lining membrane taking on a su])pu- rative action. The fluid escapes partially into the nasal cavity when the head is laid in the horizontal posture, but the outlet thus afforded is not sufficiently free to allow the parts to return to their healthy state. The bone is gradually expanded, so as to elevate the cheek and depress the ])alate; dull aching pains are felt at un- certain times throughout the face and head ; jmd the superjacent integuments are usually thick and red. A dependent opening into the cavity may be easily formed by pulling one of the grinders, or a stump remaining in the place of one of them, as the partition between the bottom of the alveolar hollow and the antrum is so thin 6is to afford no resistance which a common probe is not able to overcome. In this way, however, little advantage is obtained, as the matter is still not evacuated with sufficient freedom, and it is usually found necessary to establish a more ample aperture by separating the cheek from the gum opposite the bicuspid teeth, and breaking down the anterior wall of the cavity, sufficiently to admit the point of a finger, which, owing to the weakness of the bone at this part, may be executed more easily than might be expected. The expanded bone slowly and gradually resumes its natural shape; and while this change is proceeding, a solution of sulphate of zinc may be injected occasionally.