PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 64 firmed state the sinus is named a Fistula, but this term is usually confined in its application to sinuses connected with the natural ex- : cretory canals, as the urethra or rectum, the contents of which, by j passing through the prcternatm’al channel, prevent it from closing, s and cause thickening of its walls. This hardening, or callosity, was formerly thought to depend on a morbid disposition of the part, and to require cxtiqoation as an essential step to the patient’s reco- very. The operations practised on this principle were extremely severe, and one of the great improvements derived fi’om the more enlightened pathology of modern surgery is their entire disuse, in this country at least. It is now found to be sufficient for remedying the indication to remove the cause of iriitation that induced it, the methods of doing which will be explained hereafter, in connection with the different regions of the body which are apt to become the scat of fistula. In treating sinuses the objects are to promote granulating action on their surface, and to press their sides together. They are not healed by Jilling up any more than the original caidty of the ab- scess, but contract until they become obliterated, or close more di- rectly by union of the opposite surfaces. Great care must be taken to avoid confining the discharge of the sinus, since, if prevented from escaping, it distends the sides of the cavity; and, for the same reason, it is always proper to afford the matter a dependent opening for its escape, either by enlarging the one already existing, or making a new one. The most effectual metliod of proceeding is to lay open the cavity throughout its whole extent by incision ; and it is not unfrequent- ly necessary to resort to this practice when mild measures have failed, or the result of experience in similar cases authorizes the surgeon to dispense vath their trial. Wl.tr practice is not admissible, pressure ought to be used e'':tc> M.ii'ly, ‘•’'c patient, by means of nourishing food, together wbb ,<M tb. '>■}>•:■ S adjuvants to the recovery of general health, sh.iii!d ”c^rc‘dy if 9 possible, weakness of action in the system, if thi-.o i ' I any fiiult in tliis rcsjiect It is at all times of great conseque^; ■ to prevent motion of the jiart affected so far as possible. If the | sinus is connected with any incurable disease, such as a carious bone that cannot be removed, or a malignant degeneration of tlie texture into a cancer, any severe measures woidd be obviously im- proper, and only those of the most soothing Idnd should be em- ployed, with the view of affording that jialliation wliich is all the ^ case admits of.