THORAX. 293 recommending excision of the disease at all stages of its progress; and the operation may he performed with the same favonrable prognosis as for the fibrous and vascular sarcoma. Carcinomatous Sarcoma. There is no other part of the body in which carcinomatous de- generation occurs so frequently as in the mamma, though a large proportion of the cases in which it has been, and still is too often supposed to exist, if subjected to a more accurate diagnosis, would be referred to other kinds of disease, and particulaidy to those that have been already considered. Thus the cyst represented in last page was removed fi’om a lady who had been declared by two practitioners of great eminence in Dublin, to labour under in- curable cancer. Carcinoma occurs in the breast at all periods of life, from the age of twenty upwai'ds; but commences rare- ly before thirty-five, and most commonly between forty and fifty. It sometimes seems to be called into existence by the irritation of a blow or bruise, and is occasionally preceded by simj)le induration of the gland; but very frequently no local cause can be assigned, or, if any, it is so loosely connected with the ap- pearance of the disease, as to give no good ground for believing in its oj)eration. The suppression of the menstrual secretion is re- garded as a great predisposing, or even exciting, cause of the mor- bid action, by distimbing the balance of the system; and it has been observed, that distress of mind, errors of diet, and any other circumstances wliich derange the secretions, tend fivrther to promote the commencement, and increase the malignity of the disease. I am inclined to think that the cessation of the menstrual discharge does not exert so much influence as is generally attributed to it; and I suspect that this opinion rests more upon theoretical grounds, or views of probability, than actual experience. It is true that, in women sufl'ering from cancer of the breast, the catamenia arc seldom present But if inquiry be made whether their disap- pearance or the commencement of the disease was first noticed, the latter will, in almost every case, prove to have been the earlier of the two events. Carcinoma of the mamma is recognized by its inequality of sur- face, extreme hardness, and specific gravity, which is greater than that of any other tissue, sound or morbid, except bone and esmti- lage. The integuments, when adherent to the tumour, are ])uck- cred, and drawn towards it. The nipple is flattened, haixlened.