PlllNCirLES OF SURGERY. 30 ance. This state is called Gangrene, or gangrenous inflammation. The part is not dead, but only threatening to die, and still admits of recovery, though a portion of it usually does perish. When the vital power is completely extinguished, the pai't ceases to he pain- ful, it shrinks in proj)ortion to its previous distension, becomes black, bro^vn, ash-grey, or buff-coloured, and emits a peculiar characteris- tic fetor, which is nearly the same whatever be the tissue concerned. It is then said to be sphacelated, or to constitute a slough. The symptoms presented by the system, while these local changes are taking place, deserve great attention. They are nearly those which have been already described as attending sinking from ex- cessive hemorrhage. The countenance is pale, cold, and moist; the featui'cs seem small and contracted; and the appearance ex- hibits that ill-omened aspect which has been designated the fades Hippocratica ; the pulse is quick, feeble, and irregidar; the tongue is brown; and the lips frequently display small dark-coloured scabs. The patient lies on his back completely collapsed, or, as it were, sunk doMTi into his bed; he has frequent coffee-coloimed vomiting, and suffers from almost incessant hiccup. His body emits a pe- culiar odoiu*, somewhat like that of moist earth. He sometimes retains his mental faculties entire; but more frequently falls into a dozing state, alternated with low muttering delirium. The breath- ing becomes obstructed by mucous effusion, and death closes the scene. It is not easy to account for these constitutional symptoms. They have been attributed to the sphacelated part acting like a poison. But where sloughing is induced directly by chemical or mechanical means, even to a great extent, it is not attended with the effects in question. They have been also referred to the ge- neral exhaustion of power which the system suffers from the in- tense overaction that j)recedes the mortification. But this opinion is irreconcilable with the fact, that removal of the sphacelated jiart alleviates, and sometimes comjdetely arrests, the constitutional symp- toms. They have, therefore, as the only other exj)lanation, been accounted for by supposing that the gangrenous or dying action extends itself over the system. Whatever be the true reason of the constitutional effect, there can be no doubt that it bears direct pro- portion to the importance of the part affected, and the violence of the action which precedes the destruction of its vitality. In chronic or dry gangrene, the local changes are of a similar kind, but slower progress, and less striking character. The con- stitutional symptoms also are milder in a i)roportionate degree; and, indeed, when the case is })urcly chronic, in general altogether absent.