THORAX. 287 The indui’ation Is not well defined. It does not feel very hard or heavy, and, if attended with pain, the jwitient describes her uneasi- ness as a sort of burning sensation, which is not always equally se- vere, but vmfies much in this respect, according to the state of her mind and body. The patient’s appearance and time of life, the history of the tumour, its consistence, and the readiness with which it generally yields to proper treatment, distinguish this from more serious affections of the mamma- When the breast is particular- ly painful, leeches and warm fomentations may be used with ad- vantage, or a litharge plaster may be applied over it; but local treatment is to be regarded as of secondary importance; since the disease almost always depends upon the state of the general health, and is to be remedied by its improvement. With this view any de- rangement of the intestinal or menstrual secretions, which is ascer- tained to exist, must be, if possible, rectified without delay; and then a gentle course of alterative medicine, especially the saline laxatives, used daily, with due attention to the mental condition of the patient, ought to be carefully employed. The mamma sometimes becomes the seat of uneasy sensations so distressing and unceasing as fully to warrant the appropriation of a particular title to express them. The Irritable breast is gene- rally met with in middle-aged women, of nervous disposition, who have been much feposed to grief, disappointment, or anxiety. It is recognized by the extreme suffering of the patient, who repre- sents the pain as equally intolerable and indescribable. It never leaves her entirely, but has remissions of partial relief, and exacer- bations in which the agony is extreme. These paroxysms are in- duced by every tiling that directly or indirectly occasions excite- ment. Pressure, as that applied in examining the breast, agitation of mind, and derangement of the secretions, are the most certain means of producing this effbet When the patient submits to an examination of the painful part, it is felt to be a little fuller and denser than usual; sometimes engaging the whole gland, and at others being confined to a single lobe, or a still smaller portion. In cases where the symptoms are mild, great relief, or even a com- plete cure, is sometimes obtained from fomentations and other sootliing load ajiplications, together with the intern.al medicines re- quisite for restoring to a healthy state the secretions that may be deranged. But these means often prove quite unavailing, and the ])atient suffers such distress that she insists upon the seat of the pain being removed ; and this wish must sometimes be conqdied with in