PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 206 the interstices of the soft parts so as to present itself lower down. When the dorsal vertebrae are affected, it generally points in the loins, and constitutes a lumbar abscess; when the low'er dorsal or the lumbar vertebrae are concerned, it for the most part jmsses down along the psoas muscle, and appears in the groin, sometimes above, but more frequently below Poupart’s ligament, when it is named a psoas abscess. The matter, in order to point above Pou- part’s ligament, must perforate the abdominal muscles and fasciae, through means of absorption, which happens generally by a small apertime; the pus thus comes to be quite superficial, and difinsed imder the skin, from wliich circumstance the abscess may be er- roneously regarded as entirely subcutaneous. It must be observed, that though chronic abscesses in the loins or groin most frequent- ly proceed from diseased bones, they may exist independently of such sources, just as in other parts of the body. When the pus ceases to be confined near the bone, and begins to drain aw^ay from it, the patient generally experiences great re- lief from his complaints. The pain becomes very much lessened, and the use of his limbs is often in some measime or altogether re- gained. But this amendment is usually accompanied by a serious change to the worse in another respect; since the vertebral column is apt to bend under its superincimibent w'eight, when weakened by the destruction of bone and intervertebral cartilage wdiich at- tends the suppuration. The cmwatime in this case takes place for- wards, and being confined to a small extent of the spine, causes an acute projection belund, so that one or more of the spinous pro- cesses appear to be dislocated backwards. This change of shape does not take place, either when the extent of the disease is small in proportion to the size of the bones in which it is seated, or w'hen it is so great that the patient is constantly confined to the horizon- tal posture; but tbe latter circumstances are comparatively rai*e in proportion to those which favour the occimrence of curvature. The surface of the abscess either heals with approximation and conso- lidation of its parietes, the vertebrae concerned appearing as if run into one mass, or a state of caries remains, and gradually wears out the patient’s strength. This disease may happen at any period of life, but is by far most common in children from two to eight ye<irs of age. In adults it generally occupies a small part of the bone, and pi oves extremely obstinate, or rather always iiicm'able, at least with such few cxceii- tions as hardly deserve to be mentioned. In childhood it usually