79 DISEASED NUTRITION. times requires several years to effect any salutary change. Such practice is merely a cloak for quackery, and as such, is not less useless to the patient, than disgraceful to the profession. It was formerly believed that a miraculous power of curing scrofulous dis- eases, by simply touching the patient, belonged to the kings of England from Edward the Confessor downwards, whence the com- mon name of the disease still in use, viz. the King’s Evil. The ce- remony was performed at the commencement of summer, during which season there is a strong tendency to spontaneous recovery; and this may account so far for the reception of a superstition so absurd. Encysted Tumours. Encysted Tumours, or Wens, as they are called when of large size, consist of two parts.—1. A bag or cyst of variable thickness, wdience they have their title; 2. a quantity of fluid, semifluid, or solid matter forming its contents. They are distinguished, in re- ference to the nature of their contents, into meliceritous, atheroma- tous, and steatomatous, accordingly as they possess the consistence of honey, putty, or lard; steatomes often contain, mixed up with the lardy looking substance, a quantity of hairs, which seem to grow from the inner surface of the sac. Encysted tumours are of all sizes, but generally between those of a pea and walnut. They are mostly seated immediately under the skin or mucous membrane, and chiefly abound in the head and face. Tlicy are also met with about the organs of generation, but not nearly so frequently, and still more'rarely over the limbs. It has been supposed that they are mere overgrowths of the natural sebaceous follicles or crypts, which lie in the skin : and Dr Sharpey has made known to me a curious observation, which would go to support this opinion, viz. that the substance, which may be squeezed out of the follicles in question, contains numerous small hairs, which can be readily seen through a microscope of moderate power. In some cases the cyst is*obviously of this origin, having an aperture in the skin of a size proportioned to its own; but these cases must be regarded as exceptions, and the completely sub- cutaneous position, the occm:rence in the ovaries, and elsewhere, not in the neighbourhood of sebaceous follicles, and the usually en- tire, imperforated cysts of these tumours, afford good reason to re- gard them as altogether new formations. Encysted tumours are sometimes, but very rarely, absorbed, and local irritation, as that of a blow, especially when it ruptures the