140 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. accident occurs, may prevent the inflammation and vesication al- together. Another mode of treatment which answers extremely well, though it is difficult to say on what principle, consists in en- veloping the burned part with cotton. This practice was intro- duced from America not many years ago, and is now in verj”^ ge- neral use. It appears that its good eflfects are most conspicuous when pressui’e is conjoined Muth it; and a bandage, therefore, OTight to be applied with moderate firmness. When blisters rise, the detached cuticle should be not only laid freely open, but taken away altogether, as its presence seems to increase the irritation. If ulcers remain, lotions of sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead, are required to stimulate the granulating surface. It was formerly the custom to dress bums with unctuous matters, such as the car- ron oil, or Imimentum aques colds; but these filthy and useless ap- plications are now almost entirely superseded by the means wliich have been mentionecL Wlien the burn is so severe as to destroy the life of the part, it must always be regarded as a severe injury. In very yomig or very old subjects, or those who on any other account are very weak, it is aj)t to induce immediate sinking ; especially when it affects the trunk, and more particularly the abdomen. In patients whose powers of action are stronger, the local irritation generally occa- sions very smart sjanptomatic fever; and when the integuments of the thorax or abdomen are affected, there is a risk of the mem- branes, lining these cavities internally, inflaming from their conti- guity. The constitutional treatment must depend upon the cir- cumstances of the case. If the patient is drowsy, with cold extre- mities and 'a weak pulse, spirits, wine, and other cordials should be assiduously administered, while the body is warmly covered and sources of artificial heat are applied to the feet. If^ on the other hand, the ordinary symptoms of inflammatory fever should be pre- sent, the tartrate of antimony ought to be freely employed, and even the lancet may be required. The local treatment of burns has afforded a fruitful field for diversity of practice and opinion ; some using cold apj)lications and means of a sedative kind; while others, as Dr Kentish, have insisted upon the advantage obtained from emplojnng oil of turpentine, and ditferent stimulants of this sort It will be found, how^ever, that there is not so much room for doubt and question as may at first appear, since it is only in what may be called the first stage of burns, or that part of their progress which intervenes between infliction and ulceration, that any uncertainty exists as to the proper mode of treatment If the in-