PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 456 is characterized by redness of the eyeball, attended with less swell- ing, and apparently more deeply seated than when the conjunc- tiva is the ])art affected. The distended vessels form a zone round the anterior part of the sclerotic about a line in breadth, and to the same extent distant from the cornea. Beyond this, the ves- sels in proceeding backwards observe a radiating direction, and do not branch out as in the conjunctive In chronic cases, the eyeball, along with more or less of the redness that has been de- scribed, assumes a sickly yellow hue. The pain is of a dull ach- ing kind, extending into the forehead, and generally suffering oc- casional exacerbations, with alternate remissions. The constitu- tional disturbance varies with the acuteness of the local symptoms. This inflammation may extend to other tissues of the eye, and produce destructive effects on them; but when confined to the sclerotic coat, it terminates alw'ays in resolution, or in a chronic state approaching to it. When acute, it requires bleeding, leech- ing, warm fomenbitions, and purgatives; and when chronic, cup- ping, follow'ed by blistering on the back of the neck, with small doses of oxymuriate of mercury, Dover’s powder, and colchicura, administered internally. Iritis, and its consequences. The Iris is liable to inflammation in conseqvience of local ir- ritation, and also of indirect causes oj)crating on an unsound con- stitution. The derangement of the system which seems most fa- vourable to this effect, is that resulting from the abuse of mer- cury in the treatment of venereal diseases; but bad health from original constitutional defect, or from an improper mode of life, may occasion a ])redisposition sufficient for its production, when the exciting circumstances are brought into action. It may also result from the extension of inflammation originating in some other texture, as the conjunctiva or sclerotic coat. The symptoms are severe deep-seated ])aiu of the eye, extend- ing into the forehead, with more or less fever, according to the intensity of the local affection ; the iris changes its colour, usually ac- (luiring a dull brick-red bue in part of its extent; the pupil is cToncrcally small, fixed, and irrcgidar ; the aqueous humour appears Turbid; and there is a distinct red zone formed by the enlargetl vessels of the sclerotic, at the distance of aboht a line from its con- nection with the cornea. The consequences of this inflammation, are effusion of Ivmph on cither surface of the iris, which, beewn-