BRAIN. 429 tient often walks, speaks, and conducts himself in other respects as if not materially hurt. Inflammation almost inevitably, however, soon comes on, and proving no less intense than uncontrollable, usually terminates fatally in the course of a day or two. The treat- ment ought to be directed with the view of preventing and check- ing these bad consequences, but will seldom be productive of much benefit, and therefore the prognosis in such cases is very unfavour- able. Hernia cerebri is a protrusion that frequently occurs, when the dura mater has been exposed or injured in consequence of external violence. The membrane becomes prominent, discoloured, soft, and at length perforated by a small aperture, which enlarging, al- lows a fungous excrescence to expand itself. This growth is found on dissection to consist of a bloody mass, in which some traces of the cerebral substance can be discerned; and seems to resemble the fungus of the testicle that has been described above. It pro- bably depends upon the brain having been injured by the concus- sion proceeding from the blow which caused the injury, and suf- fering in succession ecchymosis, inflammation, suppuration, and ul- ceration, which last-mentioned action extending to the dura mater effects its perforation, and permits the soft substance of the brain to escape from the pressure which it sustains within the c'raniura, mixed with coagulated blood efiFused into its interstices, so as to present the appearance of a solid tumour. The treatment of her- nia cerebri that proves most beneficial, consists in the free excision of the protruded mass on a level with the surface of the dura mater, and the subsequent application of pressure by means of lint, toge- ther with a plate of lead suited to the size of the aperture in the bone. With the assistance of such means the patient sometimes recovers, but more frequently sinks under the irritation attending the dis- ease. The scalp is liable to various injuries, of which the first that may be mentioned are Bruises. The most common effect of these is the appearance of a firm round flat tumour, owing to effusion into the cellular substance, which takes place almost immediately after the blow is inflicted, and then gradually diminishes without any re- medial measures, so as to leave, in the course of a few days, no trace of its existence. When the contusion is more severe, blood is effused under the integuments, so as to constitute a fluctuating swelling, the extent of which is very variable, from that of the point of a finger to a half or more of the surface of the cranium.