232 rmxciPi.ES OF surgery. loral cause of irritation, though there are many cases in which its origin seems to be entirely spontaneous. The first symptoms of the disease that attract attention are swelling and diminished mobility of the joint afiected. The swel- ling is soft, elastic, and colourless, and is diflTused over the whole extent of the synovial membrane which does not cover the articu- lating cartilages. As the morbid thickening increases, the degree of enlargement and stiffness keeps pace with it, but still the pa- tient hardly complains of pain. If the parts be examined by cbs- section during this stage, the sjTiovial membrane is found more or less thickened, gelatinous, and vascular ; the siirrouuding celbdar substance is greatly thickened and condensed by albuminous effu- sion into its interstices, and the ligaments do not present an out- line so distinct as usual, being matted together with the adjacent tissues. The joint may remain thus altered for months, or even years, without suffering any farther changes; but the diseased con- dition at last terminates either in absorption or suppuration. In the former case the articulation is restored more or less complete- ly to its ])revious condition, but almost always continues somewhat swelled and stiff; in the latter, openings into the joint are formed for the discharge of matter, the articular cartilages exfoliate or are absorbed, the cancellated structure of the bones is exposed, and the patient, if not relieved, either dies hectic, or recovers with a limb rigid and shrivelled. Instead of the joint, there is then either a perfectly unyielding union by osseous matter, which is named Anchylosis, or a firm fibrous bond of connection, constituting what is called false Anchylosis. The trciitment of the disease in its first stage ought to be direct- ed with the view of preventing inflammation, inducing it to termi- nate in resolution if actually existing; and promoting absorption of the moi'bid structure. In attaining the first of these objects, it is necessary to protect tbe joint concerned from all irritations, both direct and indirect. Not only strains, blows, and violent exercise should be avoided, but also motion of any kind or degree; to pre- vent which the more effectually, splints of leather may be ad- vanhigeously employed, the limb being fixed in that position which will render it most useful to the patient after the cure is com- ])lcted. The various actions of the system should be supported by a moderate allowance of nourishing food—by exercise of such kiiul as will not derange the affected limb—and by medicine when it is found ueccssiiry. Should inflammation be unfortunately excitedv