428 rniNCIPLES OF SURGEHV. ration that has taken place in the sliape and size of its containing case. Punctui'ed fractures are inflicted by sharp-pointed bodies, wliich apply their force with concentrated effect They perforate, or beat in, a small portion of the external table of the skull, which acting on the more brittle, internal, or vitreous part, generally depresses it to a considerably greater extent, in the form of a flattened cone, the apex of which corresponds with the centre of the injury. The sharp edges and points of bone thus driven inwards, are apt to la- cerate the membranes, or at all events, irritate them so as to ex- cite inflammation. Sometimes the bad effects thus ])roduced are of a clmonic kind, and the patient may require an operation months or years after the injury has been sustained, on account of pain, discharge, or epilepsy proceeding from the irritation of a scale of bone pressing on the dura mater or brain. In the first instance, the injury is attended with little inconvenience, since the skull being broken, there is little concussion, and no internal effusion of blood, while the extent of bone depressed, though it may be con- siderable w’hen comj)ared with the size of the external w'ound, is never so great as to occasion any sensible degree of compression. But no fracture is really so dangerous, or so mucb entitled to at- tention on its owm account, and it ought alw'ays to be regarded as requiring immediate operation. In perfoi’ming this, it is rai*ely necessary to convert a simple fracture into a compound one, as the bone is in almost every case exposed by the blow that caused the injury. Sometimes the aperture is large enough to allow the broken pieces to be picked out; but more frequently it is neces- sary for this purpose to remove a circular portion by means of the trephine. Tlie centre pin of the instrument should be fixed at the margin of the opening, as near as possible to the middle of the in- jured part It is necessary to saw w'ith caution, as the internal tiible is generally detached more or less extensively from the ex- ternal one; and if the circumstances of the ciise are found to re- quire it, the opening must be farther enlarged, either by re-apply- ing the trephine, or using Ilcy’s saw' oi- cutting forceps. After the oj)eration, the patient must be })rotccted from all sources of ex- citement, and freely depicted, if threatenings of inflammation ap- pear. Wounds of the brain, unless very deep or extensive, ai’e not im- mediately attended with any remarkable indications of the injury, except what may lie presented to view by the part itself. The pa-