ABDOMEN, 319 leeching, and the counter-irritation of blisters, or tartrate of anti- mony, arc the best means of counteraction. It is not prudent to get out of bed, or, at all events, to quit the horizontal posture until the wound is so far healed as to permit the wearing of an effi- cient ti'uss, which can hardly ever afterwards be dispensed with. When sloughing of the contents of the hernia takes place, a dis- charge of the intestinal matters always ensues for a time through the opening thus established in the gut The cavity of the sac gradually diminishes, its orifice contracts, the integuments sur- rounding it become callous, and a preternatural anus is formed. If only a part of the circumference of the intestine has been protrud- ed, the remaining portion allows some of the contents of the canal to descend naturally, and by degrees more of them until little and at last none are voided in the groin, the opening of which closes, and then the patient obtains a complete cure. The process of re- paration is accomplished with difficulty, in proportion to the ex- tent of gut that has been destroyed, and when its whole circum- ference has sloughed, a complete loop of the intestine having been strangulated, it can hardly be effected without some artificial assist- ance. In this case the two contiguous walls of the gut constitute a septum which directs the flow of matters passing through the canal so as to make them issue at the preternatui’al orifice; and some- times the upper part of the tube is inverted, and protrudes through it, forming a tumour of various size in the groin. Different me- thods have been employed for dividing this septum, and thus pro- moting the natural changes that lead to recovery. Incision is dan- gerous from the risk of cutting too much, and allowing the intesti- nal matters to be effused into the cavity of the abdomen. A liga- ture passed through the septum by means of a needle, wliich was first thought of by Dr Physick of New York (1802), is more safe in the first instance, but must subject the patient to the chance of 8)-mptoms similar to those of strangulated hernia; and the plan of M. Dupuytren (1813) seems to be on the whole the best. It con- sists in compressing the septum between the blades of forceps (Fig. 2, Plate I.) made to meet very accurately, the one being received into a groove of the other, and regulated in their approximation by a screw. The pressure is thus completely under control, and can be increased, diminished, or altogether withdrawn according to cir- cumstances. The sloughing of a hernia is not the only cause of preternatural an\is. It may be produced also by ulceration of the intestine after