172 nUXCIPLES OE SUllGERY. tion is performed, tlie trochanter major may be felt moving as if on its own axis, instead of describing the arc of a circle, as it does when the neck is entire; the shortening of the limb readily yields to moderate extension, and returns when it is discontinued, during which movements an obscure crepitus is sometimes perceived. It woidd appear from some cases that if the fractiue splits the trochanters, so as to detach the smaller one from the shaft, and also the posterior part of the greater, to which the muscles that j)cr- form rotation outwards are attached, leaving the anterior portion of the juocess which receives the insertion of the ylutceus medius connected with the body of the bone, the eversion of the limb is prevented, and the toes are tiuned inwards, but in other respects the symptoms are the same. Except in the last mentioned case, which is not common, the discrimination between fracture of the neck alone, and that extend- ing through the trochanters, is not easily accomplished with accu- racy. When the patient is not very old, when the shortening of the limb is considerable, and wEen the trochanter feels, on exa- mination, larger than usual, it may be suspected that the injiuy is not confined to the neck of the bone. This distinction is of little consequence, except in respect to the prognosis, since the treat- ment proper for both accidents is the same; but the cure is much more readily accomplished when the fracture is through the tro- chanters, than when it is confined to the neck. In the latter case, many surgeons in this country believe that osseous union is impos- sible, unless the reflected ligament, or fibrous covering of the neck, which is continuous with the capsule of the joint, remains entire. There is no doubt that the sxufaces of the bones are verj- apt either to continue quite separate, or to be united by a flexible fibrous medium. But none of the arguments which have been adduced to prove the impossibility of osseous junction seem to be conclusive; and though the small extent and mobility of the broken surfaces, the absence of vascular tissues surrounding the fi’acturc, and per- haps also the presence of the synovial fluid, may render the ciue very difficult, it ought still to be regarded as a possible occurrence. An attempt, therefore, to unite the fracture ought always to be made, JUid if it fail, the patient will at least have no ground to re- flect on the careless treatment of his attendant. The long splint affords the most effectual means of preserving the j)roper j)osition, but has been objected to on the ground that the pressure on the instep of the foot and on the Siicrum which its use necessiirily occa-