ABDO.MEX. '325 egg, which it seldom exceeds, a very slight dilatation of the stricture is sufficient for permitting reduction. Instead of the coai'se and dangerous procedure of Gimbernat, therefore, the division of the tight edge of the fasciae should be effected very gently and cau- tiously. The siugeon having introduced his fore-finger into the sac close up to its neck, with the nail turned towards the intestine, feels for the crescentic margin of the fasciae, or rather for its situa- - tion, since in cases requiring an operation the stricture is too tight to permit the smallest part of the finger to be passed through. He then carries up a blunt-pointed slightly curved bistoury along his linger, towards wdiich the flat side is turned,' and carefully insinuates its point within the stricture, which being accomplished, he turns, the knife so as to direct the cutting edge to it; and if sufficient di- latation is not thus obtained, he presses the edge of the knife on the tense fibres withoxit using any sawing motion. As room is gained, he presses his finger gradually forwards, until he feels that the point is fairly within the abdominal cavity, when he may be sure that enough has been done. It often happens that, immediately upon the return of the protruded viscera, a quantity of serous fluid es- capes from the abdomen, which has an alarming appearance, but is not of the slightest consequence. The after-treatment of the pa- tient should be conducted on the same principles which have been explained in regard to inguinal hernia. It may here not be impro- per to notice a qiiestion which has of late been agitated with conside- •rable keenness. This is, whether in operating for hernia it is neces- sary that the sac should be opened, and whether it would not be bet- ter to relieve the stricture without cutting into the cavity of the peri- toneum. The advantage contended for in favour of the latter prac- tice is its lessening the risk of inflammatory consequences. In oppo- sition to it many strong objections readily appear,—as, in the Jirst ■place, the difficulty, or rather impracticability of safely dividing a tight stricture without the assistance obtained from introducing a linger into the sac as a guide for the knife ; secondly, the inefficiency of pressure to reduce the protruded parts, unless the orifice through which they have escaped be rendered very free indeed, so long as it operates through the medium of fluid contained in a bag; third- ly, there is the fear of returning the sac along with the viscera, in which case strangulation may still be maintoined by its narrow neck : fourthly, there, is ground to believe, that the neck of the sac is in general much concerned in causing the strangulating con- striction, so as to require division no less than the fascial stricture