GRANULATION. 53 powers of action, and in weak irritable individuals. They may also occiu- in any one as the effect of continued irritation, whether du-ect or indii’ect The treatment consists in removing all sources of mritation, and using those local applications w^hich have a soothing tendency. Of these, heat and moisture, as afforded by fomentations and poultices, are the best; and their effects may be increased by using decoc- tions of poppy heads, solution of acetate of lead with opium, &c. Scarification of the edges of the ulcer, or leeches, may also be em- ployed if the symptoms are severe, but it is very seldom necessary to do so. Bleeding, purging, calomel and opium must also be re sorted to according to the state of the system, so as to reduce ex- cessive power of action and allay inordinate irritability. In reliev- ing the ulcer from irritation it should be recollected, that motion has a powerful effect in causing or increasing it, and rest therefore ought to be strictly enforced. Ulcers of this kind sometimes go on progressively enlai'ging, and are then said to be Phagedenic. When the over-action runs still higher, so as to destroy the life of the part, it constitutes what is called a Sloughing Ulcer. Wlien mercury is given profusely or indiscriminately, in the treatment of venereal affections, it frequent- ly induces such frritability as to make the sore assume phagedenic or sloughing characters. The patients in crowded ill-ventilated hospitals sometimes suffer from slougliing of their sores, attended with great destruction of the parts, or even fatal effects on the sys- tem. This Hospital Gangrene, as it is named, no doubt depends on the unwholesome atmosphere exciting preternatural irritability, and the treatment, therefore, essentially requires removal from the sphere of this deleterious influence. Other means will hardly be required if this be afforded, while the most careful administration of dressings and medicines will be of little avail so long as the grand desideratmn is withheld. The age, strength, and previous circum- shinces of the patient may render it proper to vary the subonlinate treatment by bleeding or stimidating, fomenting or cauterizing. The hospital gangrene, as described by military surgeons, is not met with in civil hospitals to such a formidable extent, but a de- gree of the same effect, proceeding from a similar cause, is of fre- (juent occuirence, and deiminds similar measures for its remedy. In the forms of this affection which I am accustomed to see, the first sign of its commencement is the appearance of one or more small superficial circular excavations, looking as if scooped out witli 3 L