PI1INCIPI.es OE SUIIOEIIY. U)4 should be long enough to extend beyond both ends of the fractured bones, and broad enough to equal the diameter of the limb. Those of the former kind must be well softened by immersion in hot water, or being thoroughly moistened with it, and then padded with carded tow, lint, or flannel. The leather ones also require to be moist- ened, but may then be applied without the intervention of any other material. There are usually required two splints, one for each side of the limb, and the best bandages for retaining them are the loop- ed bandage, the tailed bandage, and the common roller. The first of these consists of narrow strips of calico, about an inch and a-half broad, and long enough when folded double to pass round the limb with a few inches of excess; one of the ends is then drawn through the loop and tied to the other. The number of pieces thus applied varies with the length of the limb, as there ought not to be more than three inches between them. This bandage is useful when the degree of tightness requires to be occasionally altered, and the limb cannot be moved without disadvantage. The tailed band- age consists of a common roller, divided into pieces long enough to encircle the limb somewhat obliquely, and cross over far enough to keep their hold. Six, eight, ten, or whatever number of these tails the length of the limb requires, are placed transversely under it, so that each overlaps the one above it about two-thirds. The lowest one is then drawn tightly round the limb, and while its ends are still held by the surgeon or his assistant, the one next above is applied in the same manner, so as to secure the former, and so on until the whole ai*e thus disposed of. This bandage efiects a very equable pressure, and can be changed without disturbing the limb; but it does not admit of partial relaxation or tightening. The com- mon roller is the simplest and easiest of all the means for the pim- pose, but can be used only where the limb may be moved without any inconvenience. There are various contrivances for assisting the splints and bandages in preserving the proper position; but they will be best explained along with the particular circumstances requiring them. A method of treating fractm^es has of late years been introduced, from the practice of some Pimisian surgeons, very extensively into this country, though there seems great reason to question its superiority over that previously in use. It consists in closely enveloping the injured limb with numerous bands of paper, linen, or cotton, covered with starch, or the modification of it named dexterhiP. Some practitioners apply tliis immovable apparatus, as it has been called, immediately after the receipt of the injury, hut