PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 8 (liu-ing inflammation, is now ascertained to coagulate more slowly, and to allow the red globules to subside more readily than usuid. The fi’ec communication which exists between neighbouring ves- sels, through mesins of the anastomoses of their branches, would sime- ly prevent any inconvenience from being caused by error loci, gi’ant- ing the possibility of such an occurrence; and the doctrine of spasm is objectionable, to say nothing of other groimds, on the very se- rious one, that the alleged inoutlis of the vessels are foimd not to exist A (Ufferent explanation of inflammation was given by Vacca.* He thought that the first step in the process was debility of the ca- j)illary vessels, wdiich allowed them to be distended by the current of blood passing through them. The blood thus accumulated w’oidd cause heat, swelling, redness, and pain, and the action of the heart consequently becoming aficctcd, the blood would be driven with more force into the arteries, which again w^ould contract with violence proportioned to the extent of their dilatation. Vacca rested this doctrine chiefly on its scitisfactorily explaining the phenomena of inflammation, and also agreeing with circumstan- ces frequently observed in the cause and ciu’c of this morbid state. But his followers have culled into their assistance, and indeed con- sidered as their strongest argument, the appearances which arc ob- servctl in the capillary vessels of inflamed parts when they are sur- veyed through a microscope. Their statement is, that, as inflam- mation commences and proceeds, the globules move more and more slowly, and at hist cease to do so at all, wliile the vessels become gi’eatly enlarged and distended. These observations, though regarded by many as conclusive in favour of the doctrine of debility, seem, upon a more careful con- sideration, rather opjiosed to it ; for relaxation of the vesstds ought to favour the transmission of their contents, and the retardation that might be expected from their increased capacity ought to Ixi ex- tremely inconsiderable. But it has always been remarked, that the globules begin to move slowly before the vessels dilate,f and that the dilatation increases in jirojiortion to the slowness of their motion. It may be further observed, that if the blood of an inflam- ed part were sbognant, the colour of it ought to lie diu'k like that of venous blood, while, on the contrary, we know that, unless in jiarticular circumstance.s when the difference can be accounted for, • Vacca dc Iiilliimiuntioiiis NuUira, &c. 17G5. t Wilson Philip, Med. Cliirg. Trails. \ol. xii. p. “107.