86 PRINCIPLES OE SURGERY. conjoined pressure with division of the inner coats, by tying a liga- ture tightly with a slip-knot, and removing it from a few hours tojtwo days iifterwards. These scientific and reasonable trials occasionally proved successful in practice, but the results have been very irregu- lar. The obliteration of human arteries, though accomplished by the same process, appears to be not so readily induced or complet- ed as in the lower animals. And there are few situations in which the vessels arc sufficiently accessible to admit of the necessary ma- nij)idations for effecting a temporary obstruction. All proceedings with this view are therefoi’e now abandoned, and the method inva- riably followed, consists iu tying the vessel firmly with a small round silk ligature, which is loft to be detached by the ulcerative absorp-* tion instituted through the irritation caused by its presence; the ef- fusion of lymph that directly succeeds its application, sealing up the cavity both above and below, so as to prevent hemorrhage dur- ing the process of separation. IVr. Amussat of Paris has lately contrived another method of ob- structing large arteries, wliich generally succeeds iu the lower ani- mals, and has also been executed with success on the human sub- ject It consists in seizing the bare coats of the artery transverse- ly with two pairs of forceps, and then, separating the two instru- ments from each other, so as to rupture the internal coats, and throw them into folds. The effect of this procedime is interesting in respect to the pathology of the ai*teries, but will not probably be preferred in practice to that of the ligature. Lymph is also effixsed from the aiderial coats as a consequence of inflammation; and the spontaneous obstructions which thus en- sue deserve much attention. Though probably not very uncom- mon, they escaped observation until very lately, and are yet far from being generally known. The inflammation may be limited to a small part of the vessel, or affect nearly the w hole of the ar- terial system. The circumstances immediately concerned in its production are unknown; but it is observed to be nearly confined to adidts at or beyond middle age, having a bxid habit of body. According to its extent and violence, the patient feels ])ain in the region of tlie vessels concerned, which is aggrav ated by pressure or motion, and attended with more or less fever. As, from the depth of the vessels, there is no external aj)})carance of disexxse, these symptoms are usually referred to rheumatism, and medical aid is not required until inconvenience begins to be cxjxerienced from the obstruction iu the circulation which ensues j at least such has been