93 BLOOD-VESSELS. M i| The bleeding, after it has been stopped, sometimes returns, when i iit is called secondary hemorrhage. If it has ceased spontaneously imerely through the natural process aided perhaps by syncope, which favours coagulation, the reaction of the system that ensues within an hour or two is apt to reinduce it. If arrested by pres- >sure, it may return either at this time, or not until two or three days afterwards, when the feverish excitement whicli is then occa- 'sioned by the irritation of the wound, tends to promote it; and if a ligature has been applied, the ulceration by which it is separated, »if too rapid or extensive, may cause a bleeding from three days to I as many weeks after the infliction of the injury. When the he- morrhage, therefore, is considerable, the local means of restraining it ought to be assisted by those which produce a corresponding ef- fect on the system, such as rest, quiet, low diet, cooling purgatives, and whatever else may seem likely to moderate the force of the circulation. It has been proposed to obviate the immediately fatal effect of excessive hemorrhage, by transfusing the blood of another indivi- dual into the veins of the patient The experience hitherto ac- quired on tills subject is very limited, and far from satisfactory. The profuse depletion requisite to sanction such a proceeding is generally either accompanied with some incurable lesion of the system, or happens in circumstances which prevent the preparations for it from being completed soon enough. The simplest and best mode of performing the operation, is to fasten a bladder to the canula of a small trocar, or a small silver tube made for the purpose, with its extremity rounded and slightly curved, which, being introduced into one of the veins of the arm will transmit the blood received in the bladder, as it flows from the vein of the person who aftbrtls it, and descends into that of the pa- tient by its own weight, or the influence of slight pressure exercised on the bag. The various ingenious and complicated apparatus, which have been contrived for effecting transfusion, are less ma- nageable than this very simple one, which may always be constructed extemporaneously, and are objectionable on account of the exten- sive surface of dead matter to wliich they expose the blood, besides the risk of injecting air that attends their use. Aneurism. By the term Aneurism is understood a sac containing blood, fluid or coagulated, and communicating with the trunk of an artery.