PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 274 coats of the tube, wliich, lujcoiBiiig the seat of a tumour, rentier the canal narrow and tortuous. The first, or spasmodic stricture, is met with chiefly in yomig or middle-aged persons; particularly those of a nervous habit, or dis- posed to hysterical complaints, or who have suffered much from mental distress. It is recognized by the difficulty which is expe- rienced in swallowing, and by a disagreeable sensation of constric- tion in the throat* The remedy consists in administering anti- spasmodic medicines, such as the tincture of valerian; correcting * any irregularities that may be discovered in the performance of the various secretions; and, if necessary, passing a full-sized bougie into the oesophagus, which sometimes at once completely removes the unpleasant feelings of the patient The second, or simple organic stricture, as it may be named, occurs chiefly at the commencement of the oesophagus, opposite the cricoid cartilage; and for the most part in people who have somewhat passed the middle period of life. The contracted part is usually of small extent, seeming as if it were caused by drawing a thread round the tube, and exists in various degrees of width, from that of a small quill upwards. The circumstances which oc- casion this morbid state have not been well ascertained. When irritating or escharotic fluids, such as the diluted mineral acids— or strong alkaline solutions, are introduced into the oesophagus, the usual consequence, in case the patient survives, is tliickening and contraction of its coats. And it may reasonably be imagined that the change in question is produced by the same cause operating on a smaller scale; but the patient can liardly ever refer the origin of his conqilaint to any particular irritation from stimulat- ing food or other source. The symptoms of this disease generally manifest themselves very insidiously. The swallowing of large morsels becomes difficult and painful; the food is more carefully masticated than before; and as the contraction increases, while none but very small por- tions of solid matter can be got down, even they in passing the stricture occasion pain, which is felt shooting into the back of the neck and shoulders. From the frequent recurrence of this distres- • Similar symptoms are sometimes produced by a paralytic sbite of the muscles of deglutition ; in which case, if the patient survives the derangement of the ner- vous system that primarily occasions this dysphagia, food must be supplied through a tube introduced from time to time into the oesophagus.