PELVIS. 3S7 and generative organs, constipation, sedentary occupations, preg- nancy, and exposure to cold or wet, which, by deranging the ac- tions of the system, is apt to excite local inflammation, especially in parts having already a morbid disposition. It follows tliat the most effectual means of preventing the disease consist in using re- gular diet and exercise, avoiding excesses of every kind, and obvi- ating constipation, if it should occur, by suitable medicine or re- gimen. Similar attention will palliate the symptoms; but dur- ing tlie paroxysms it is often necessary to maintain the horizontal posture, to facilitate the evacuation of the bowels, by administering laxative doses of castor oil and emollient injections, and to allay the inflammatory condition of the parts affected by warm fomen- tations, the hip-bath, and leeches applied round the margin of the anus. Much relief is often obtained in the chronic state of the complaint, by regularly injecting a pint of water a little before the ordinary time of having a stool, or applying to the tumours an as- tringent ointment composed of powdered galls and axunge, or by introducing occasionally as large a bougie as can be passed. But to eflfect a radical cure it is necessary to remove the excrescences, which may l)e done either by the knife or ligatme. In regard to external piles there can be no doubt that excision is the preferable mode, being much more speedy, and attended with less pain. It may be performed either with a knife or scissors, while the excres- cence is held steady with a hook, forceps, or the finger and thumb. There is seldom bleeding of any consequence, and if a vessel should throw out a jet, it can be readily tied. The excision of he- morrhoids from within the sphincter, owdng to the greater vascu- larity in this situation, and the difficulty of applying pressure or styptics to the cut surface, is attended wdth the danger of hemor- rhage so profuse as to be very alarming, or even prove fatal. In such cases tlie ligature ought to be preferred, as it is perfectly safe, and has the advantage of so altering the structure of any portion of the excrescence that may have been permitted to remain, through the inflammation, and consequent adhesive effusion or sloughing which is caused by its irritation, as to prevent a relapse of the disease. Wlien the patient, by straining at stool, has caused the whole mass of excrescences to protrude, the surgeon should tie them close to their roots with silk threads as tightly as he can. He may do this either by transfixing them at the base with a needle, and then including a half of each in one of the threads, or if they arc small, seizing them with a hook or forceps, and applying single