26 rniNCITLES OF SURGERY. sequence of their irritation. The plaster of cantharicles is most fre- quently employed for this purpose; but, when the effect is wished to be strong and immediate, recourse may be had to boiling water, or the concentrated mineral acids. The nitrate of silver is occa- sionally preferred for the piuqiose, being rubbed on the part after it has been moistened with water. So soon as the blisters caused in either of these ways have risen, they oiight to be cut, so as to allow the serous fluid which they contain to escape, after which the surface is to be dressed with some simple ointment. In order to prolong the irritation of blisters, it used to be customary to di*ess the raw part with an ointment con- taining savine leaves, or the powder of cantliarides, which prevent- el it from healing, and maintained a cbscharge of matter. ^VTien continued irritation is required, it is now more frequently effected by the tartrate of antimony, which, when applied to the skin either in solution or ointment, occasions a pustular eruption, that may be regulated as to extent and duration by the same means. Another mode of causing permanent counter-irritation, is to in- stitute a discharge of matter from a breach in the continuity of the skin. The introduction of a seton used to be, and still is, witli many people a favourite way of effecting this. The operation is most easily done with a seton-needle, an instrument shaped like a lancet, about three inches long, tliree-eighths of an inch broad, slightly cimved, and having an eye in the handle. A fold of skin being held up, the needle is pushed through, and by its means a thread, to which a skein of silk or cotton sufficient to fill the aper- ture can then be introduced. In absence of the needle, a straight shar]i-})ointed bistoury and prol)e will be found to answer nearly as well. In a few days, when the discharge of matter commences, a new seton may be passed by drawing it tbroiigh the loop of the old one,—and this may then be rejHJated daily. Issues are now more frequently employed v,ith this view. They are merely breaches in the surface caused by the knife, ciiustic, or the actual cautery; that is, red hot iron. When the knife is used, it should be pushed through a fold of the skin, and then some pecise, or other foreign bodies, must be placed in the wound to prevent it from healing. The caus- tic potass is generally employed for opening issues. It may either be ajiplied for three or four hmu’^ made into a paste with soap or bread, and limited in its operation by a defence of adhesive plaster, having an aperture cut in it of the requisite size, or simply rubl)ed in substance upon the skin until the alteration of colour and con-