DISEASED NUTRITION. 67 simple sarcomatous growths existing independently, may sometimes be dispersed. Should they prove obstinate, and occasion much in- convenience or deformity, the best method of removing them is ex- cision, if the circumstances of the case, as to tlie situation and con- nections of the tumour, do not forbid it. Some attempts have been made to arrest the morbid nutritive action, or cause slougliing of the mass proceeding from it, by tying one or more of the nutrient arteries; but experience on tliis subject has liitherto been very li- mited and unsatisfactory. Under the head of Vascular Sarcoma may be arranged the ex- crescences named Warts, and Polypus. The former is a growth from the skin, the latter from the mucous membranes. In both the natural textimes appear to be rather pretcmaturally extended, with more or less softening and relaxation of the structure, than subject- ed to any degeneration or morbid alteration of composition. Warts i are met with most frequently on the hands, and on the thin skin which ! surrounds the outlets of the body—as the eyelids, lips, and pre- puce. It must be here remarked, however, that most of the ex- I cresences on the face, which are usually designated warts, really pos- I sess an entirely different natxire, being altogether new formations ’ wliich have nothing in common with the growth under considera- I tion, except some resemblance of form, and require to be carefully (distinguished, since the treatment, which is proper for the one sort, j proves most injurious when applied to the other. Warts admit of removal by the action of stimulants, such as fstrong acetic acid, or the concentrated solution of sidphate of fcopper; also by caustic, the ligature, and the knife or scissors. The ffirst and last mentioned means are the best for the purpose—the fformer being employed when the gi’owth possesses a soft consistence aand broad base, the latter when it is firm and prominent Poljqjus is a growth of softer consistence, but varies considerably lin this respect according to the part from which it proceeds. The llining membranes of the nose and uterus are its most frequent 'seat; and next to them the pharynx and rectum may be mention- xjd. It has usually a greyish-yellow colour, and possesses little vas- ■CTilarity, with still less sensibility. The inconvenience caused by tits presence is chiefly of a mechanic-al nature, but, nevertheless, oft ten sufficiently distressing. The treatment is either palliative or radical—the former consist- ing in the use of astringent applications, and the latter in removal by evulsion, ligature, or excision. The expression polypus, like that of