PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 264 warm fomentations, ami lotions of acetate of lead with opium, are the host means for subduing the inflammatory action, hut when matter is formed, a free incision should he made without delay. After the suppuration of a hursa a troublesome sinus remains, and the patient is harassed by frequent exacerbation of the symptoms. Free dilatation is for the most part sufficient in such cases; hut should it not prove to he so, the surface of the cavity must he touch- ed with caustic. The ])articidar bursa?, which most frequently suffer the different diseased conditions that have been described, are those of the flexor tendons of the fingers, and those seated over the olecranon, patel- la, and ball of the great toe. In the first of these situations, the bursal sheath of the tendons is liable to dropsical effusion and the formation of solid bodies by the induration of lymph; the wrist and palm of the hand become greatly distended, and the patient loses the use of the limb until the disease is remedied. The super- ficial hursa lying over the olecranon is subject to irritation and acute inflammation from blows, hut not unfrcquently suffers an ac- cumulation of fluid with thickening of the membrane, and some- times also with the formation of internal crossing hands from or- ganization of effused lym])h. The bursa over the patella is very often distended with fluid, and thickened so as to constitute what is called Ganglion of the luiee. It is met with most fre<piently in persons whoso occupation leads them often to rest their weight upon the knee. The hursa over the hall of the great toe, when irritated by the pressure of a tight shoo, lays the foundation of that painful and unseemly swelling named Bunion. The parts adjacent become thickened and indurated; the hones of the joint enlarge, and in process of time suffer a sort of suhluxation ; and the hm’sa being thus projected more and more against the shoe, is kept in a state of continual excitement. Dropsical effusion, thickening of the membrane, and siq3])uration with obstinate sinuses may ensue. It is therefore proper, by the timely application of leeches, or lotions, and the removal of j)ressure, to sidxluc the disease in its infancy. Though the deep-seated hursse have long been well known to ana- tomists, and regarded by surgeons as tlie seat of morbid derang('- ments, those which lie superficially under the integuments are of comparately late observation, and the swellings, as well jis other lo- cal affections which proceed from their diseased condition, have been