PRINCIPLES OF SURGERV. 434 and attempts at exercise, are diligently used to excite the languid energies of the limbs. The vertebra? are liable to dislocation and fracture, but never suffer in either of these ways without the operation of extreme vio- lence, except in the cervical region, 'where the parts concerned are least firmly constructed, and sometimes suffer displacement from a degree of force not so very great Dislocation seldom occurs unaccompanied by fracture ; and the medullary cord is almost al- ways much injured at the time, independently of the pressure apt to be permanently caused on it by the disjointed or broken verte- brae. The symptoms resulting from such injuries are nearly the same as those of simple concussion or compression, and the dis- tinction between them depends on the former being generally more severe, as well as obstinate, but chiefly in the alteration of shape which is discovered in the spinal column. It has been stated * that dislocation of the spine always terminates fatally, either in the first instance, or in the course of a few months, owing to the chronic inflammation, and alteration of structure occasioned by the injury; but this is not altogether correct, since recoveries in such circum- stances do take place, though certainly verj’ rarely. The progno- sis, therefore, must be unfavourable. The treatment does not admit of replacement of the dislocat- ed surfaces through the agency of external means, and the re- moval of portions of bone by operation to facilitate reduction, though it has been attempted, offers no reasonable prospect of benefiting the patient, while it must increase the danger of bad consequences by adding to the irritation. The vertebral canal is so much wider than the nervous cord which it contains, that a mere alteration of its direction, even though pretty acute, could hardly produce any very important effect on the functions of the organ ; and if the displacement were so gi'eat.as to make the bones press injuriously upon it, there is every reason to suppose, that tak- ing aw'ay the portions of vertebra? concerned, even granting it could be done without mischief, would be of no use in remedying the derangement of the structure of the cord. The patient, therefore, should be treated as if he had merely suffered concussion or com- pression. Symptoms of inflammation should be checked—the dis- charges from the rectum and bladder duly maintained—and if the immediate danger is surmounted, the means proper for subduing * Sir A. Cooler on Dislocations and Fractures. 1826.