161 BONES. Simple Fractures. The symptoms of simple fracture are, 1. Distortion or change of shape, owing to the broken bone being unable to counteract the displacing tendency of the surrounding muscles and the weight of the limb itself. There is thus caused shortening or retraction, the extent of which depends upon the obliquity of the fracture, and ro- tation. 2. Diminution or total loss of volmitary motion. 3. Pre- ternatural mobility by external forces. 4. Swelling from the effu- sion of blood by ruptured vessels, and from the same cause the dis- coloration of ecchynnosis appearing some time after the accident. 5. Pain and spasmodic starting of the muscles, owing to the irrita- tion of the shai’p extremities of the bone. 6. Crepitus, or a grating sensation when the limb is moved, from the rough osseoiis surfaces nibbing against each other. "Wlien the extremities of a broken bone are allowed to remain at rest they unite together, and if examined by a section afterwards, exliibit a ftiass of new osseous matter which serves as their bond of union. The old surgeons believed that this callus, as it was cal- led, resulted from an effusion poured out by the surromiding soft parts, in conseciuence of the irritation of the injury, which concret- ed about the broken bones, and so united them together. The great object of treatment, according to their view, was to restrain, by local pressme, the effusion from going beyond due bounds. For tills purpose short splints, or pieces of wood, pasteboard, or iron, were tightly bandaged to the limb over the injured park Mr Pott had the merit of exposing to the surgeons of this country the im- propriety of such practice, and introducing another more scientific as well as practically useful. Mr Pott attributed exuberance of the callus to imperfect adjust- ment of the broken Ixmes, which causing irregularity and projec- tion of their exti-emities, consequently rendered their union large and clumsy. He, therefore, insisted upon carefully setting or replacing the fracture, and in doing this pointed out the import- ance of relaxing, by proper position of the limb, those muscles which by their contraction caused or increased the distortion. Here he remarked very justly, that what is usually called the riding end of the bone, from its seeming to project, is, with some few excep- tions, really in its place, and appeal’s prominent merely because the other is drawn back by the muscles. He showed the folly of attempting to squeeze down the projection by local pressure, and discarded the short splints which were employed for this purpose. L