222 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. placed on a mattress upon his back. A folded sheet or tablecloth is then to be passed between the thighs, so as to support the perineum, its ends being either held in the hands of assistants standing be- hind the patient’s head as he lies supine, or secured to a ring in the wall. A skein of worsted or any other suitiible lac is next fasten- ed round the limb immediately above the knee, and committed to assistonts, either trusting to their own strength for extending suffi- ciently, or aided by pulleys, if the case promise to prove difficult. The points of extension and counter-extension having been thus de- termined, any degree of obliquity that seems requisite may be easi- ly given to the former by turning round the mattress a little, until it appears that the limb is extended exactly in the line which it has assumed from the dislocation. It is usual to rotate the leg, and at the same time use means for drawing the neck of the thigh-bone outwards so as to lift its head over the edge of the acefcibulum; but from my own opportunities of observation, I am led to believe that any such interference is quite unnecessary, since the extension, if sufficiently powerful and properly directed, completely attains the object, as the muscles generally pull the head of the bone into its place when it has been carried far enough; but if it shoidd seem that the margin of the acetabulum opposes any resistance to its re- turn, the difficulty may be siu’mounted by drawing the upper part of the thigh out- wards wliile the knee is still held across the sound one. The dislocation into the ischiatic notch is produced much in the same way as that on the dorsal surface of the ilium, but does not happen so frequently. The symptoms also are similar, and differ only in being less marked. There is less shortening—less bending of the affected limb over the sound one—less inversion of the toes—and less dis- placement of the trochanter major. In ob- scure cases a good diagnostic will be afford- ed by trying to bring the thigh into a straight line with the ti’unk of the body, which is im- possible while the bone is thus displaced. The patient, when lying upon his back, finds it necessemy either to arch the loins so that the surgeon may press his hand between 3