147 AMrUTATIOy. body, to compensate for the contractility of the liv- ing muscle. When the skin is loose, and the mus- cles attenuated, the surface of the flaps shoidd he convex, to preserve the latter, and diminish the ex- tent of the former tissue. When, on the contrary, the limb is muscular, and the skin tense, the knife should be made to describe a concave line, to pre- vent redundance of muscle. The best knife for am- putating fingers and toes is the bistoury, Plate I. Fig. 4. For the limbs, a larger blade is of course required ; its length ought to be about a half more than the diameter of the part to be subjected to ope- ration. It should be of the form represented by the adjoining figure, blunt on the back excep for about an inch and a half from the point, which must be thin and sharp, and vaiying from four to eight inches in length. Three sizes will be found sufficient. For restraining hemorrhage during the opera- tion, there are tlmee means which may be used. The first of these is the tourniquet or turn-stick, in- vented by Morel (1674,) consisting of a strap or bandage carried twice round the limb, encircling a firm roller, or other suitable compress placed in the course of the artery, and a piece of wood, which, being inserted between the turns of the bandage, when twisted, efiects any degree of constriction that may be reqim-ed. The second is a modification of this apparatus, contrived by Petit, (1716,) who, in- stead of the tum-stick, used a screw and couple of plates, wliich, being separated by turning the handle, effected the prcssiuemore gradually, and so as to dis- pense with the services of the assistant who was em- ployed to hold the tum-stick. This screw tourni- quet, variously modified and improved, is the instru- ment still generally used for the purpose. The third mode of commanding the vessels, is by simply com- pressing them with the hands. In certain amputa- tions this is the only means that can be used, owing to the proximity of the operation to the trunk ; and some surgeons, from the facility and dispatch at-