361 PELVIS. rectum and bladder where they are contiguous. The cannula should be secured in its place for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, to prevent the wound from closing, before the obstruction that ex- isted in the natural pjissage has been removed. In deciding upon the choice of these operations, there can be no doubt that, when the prostate is not enlarged, the one last-men- tioned ought to be pi’eferred as being the easiest, least painful, and most free from the danger of extravasation. When the prostate is enlarged, the operation by the rectum being impracticable, the punc- tui’e should be made above the pubis, unless the surgeon thinks it better to force a passage through the substance of the gland. This proceeding may appear harsh; but ex})erience shows that the wound thus made may heal; and if it be recollected that the cathe- ter may always be passed in cases of obstruction dependent upon enlargement of the prostate, unless the siudace of the tortuous ca- nal be poached and torn by the forcible use of instruments, and that in this case the substance of the gland is already injured near- ly a§ much as it would be by having the catheter thrust through it, the proposal will not seem unwarrantable. In cases of stricture preventing the introduction of a catheter. Sir A. Cooper recommends, as preferable to puncturing the blad- der, making an incision in the perineum, and cutting upon the mem- branous part of the urethra, which, owing to its distension behind the obstruction, may be distinguished, and opened, so as to esta- blish a fistula in perinea, tliat can be remedied at leisure by curing the stricture. The objection to this practice is the difficulty at- tending its execution. Urinary Calculi. The bladder and other parts of the urinary passage frequently become the seat of concretions, which vary extremely in their num- ber, size, and comjwsition, but almost always occasion very distres- sing symptoms. The measm-es which have been devised for their prevention and removal consequently demand much attention; and, in order to understand them, it is necessary to be first acquainted with the origin and mode of formation of the different kinds of cal- culi. The urine in its healthy state holds a mmibcr of saline subsbm- ces in solution, which it deposits in part on cooling to the ordinary temperature. The quantity of this precipitate varies according to the degree in which the urine is diluted, being most observable af