JOIXTS. 241 celliilar substance, and the gelatinous synovial membrane, are found to afford no scrioxis obstacle to recovery, provided the whole of the bone, so far as it is actually carious, be taken away. The ope- ration requisite for this purpose, thoxigh severe, is not more dan- gerous than amjmtation, because the joint, previous to its perform- ance, has been opened by the disease ; the whole of the articulating tissues which are apt to suffer violent inflammation when irritated are either previously destroyed or removed ; the great blood-vessels and nerves are not interfered with; and the patient is not subjected to the shock which is caused by taking away a limb. As to the joints which may be subjected to this operation, it is evident that the extent to which the acetidmlum is almost always affected in the hij>-disease forbids any attemjd at excision. Though experience lias not yet fully decided whether the limbs that might be preserved by cutting out the knee and ankle joints woxdd be pre- ferable to the artificial substitutes which may be worn in their stead, it seems pretty well ascertained that they would not. The wrist lalso, from the number of bones, and complexity of articulations L'jntering into its formation, together with the numerous tendons, xTTtcries, and nerves passing over it, does not seem to be within rreach of the operation. But the elbow and shoulder-joints, while 'their structure and situation are most favourable for excision, hold oxit the greatest inducements to effect their removal without per- ■brming amputation. In all ranks and circumstances of life, the L ise of the hand is of gi-eat consequence, and though the elbow or shoulder were to remain perfectly stiff and motionless, yet, if the r land could lie preserved entire and serviceable, by excision of these oints, it would be infinitely preferable to do so instead of taking \way the limb. But it has been proved by numerous facts, that vhile the joints beyond the disease remain as useful as ever, the one j vhich has undergone the operation regains such a degree of mobi- j ity and subjection to the action of its musclas as sometimes to render j t hardly distinguishable from a somid one, and in general prevents I; from at all impeding the use of the arm by its stiffness. There i no new joint, strictly speaking, formed, but a strong fibrous sub- tfince unites the extremities of the bones, and by its flexibility al- ows them to move within proper bounds; while the muscles cut ergss in the operation obtain new attachments, so as to perform leir usual oflftce. Shoulder-Joint.—Different methods have been followed in cut- ig out the shoulder-joint, but it will be sufficient to describe the Q 1