BONES. 193 > j space left by the portion removed, but rather exceeding it in tbick- i ness (see Fig. 2). This experiment when repeated afforded the I same results. j I next exposed the radius of another dog, and separated the pe> j riosteum from the bone as in the former experiment; but then, in- stead of cutting out the denuded bone, insei’ted a thin plate of metal between it and the periosteum. The edges of the membrane, and then those of the skin, were sewed together, and the wound healed kindly. At the end of six weeks I dissected the limb, and found a deposition of osseous substance in the periosteinn, forming a bony plate exterior to the metal, and not connected with the old bone except by the membrane. I lastly exposed the radius of a dog, and cut away the perioste- um to the same extent that it had been merely detached in the ex- periment just mentioned, and surrounded the denuded bone with a piece of metah At the end of six weeks 1 found a thick tough capsule formed, enclosing the metallic plate, but having no osseous substance in it The evidence which has now been adduced seems to me suffi- cient for putting beyond all question the power of the peiaosteum i to form new bone, independently of any assistance from the old I one, I submit it, with deference, to the Society, in the hope that those members who have directed their attention to the subject will give it their dispassionate consideration, and either admit the opinion which it supports, or show the fallacy by which it has misled.” The treatment of necrosis seldom admits of active measures on the part of the surgeon at its early stage. Abscesses should he opened when they point Sequestra ought to be assisted to escape, and the patient’s strength supported by nourishing diet, and the other usual means. If the death of the bone is so sudden and ex- tensive, that the new shell is not able, in the first instance, to sup- port the strain of the muscles and weight of the limb, splints must be carefully employed until the process of ossification is advanced far enough to render them unnecessary. Finally, in case the pa- tient proves unable to bear the long-continued and exhausting exer- tion requisite for accomplisliing the cure, he ought to be relieved by amputation. S^ippuration of Bones and Caries. It is only in the cancellated or spongy texture of bone that in- flammation induces suppuration; the dense parts never taking it on unless they are previously expanded and loosened, in consequence N I