205 BONES. the best, and supporting the general health, for which purpose sea air seems to have most influence. Fragility or unusual facility of being broken, naturally leads to the idea of a redundance in the earthy constituent of bones; and a certain degree of it depending on this cause is observed in old people; but the condition which is generally understood to be denoted by this title, and in wliich the proneness to breaking is so great that fracture is caused by the slightest external violence, or even by the action of the muscles in effecting the ordinary move- ments of the limbs, is a state of preternatural softness instead of increased density. Rickets, malacosteon, and the medullary-sar- comatous degeneration, all occasionally render the bones more liable to be broken; and fracture being sometimes the first obvious efiect of the diseased action, is not only thought to be the cause that induced it, but also chosen as the characteristic feature for its designation. A remarkable degree of fragility has been obsen'ed in the advanced stage of carcinomatous disease. Diseases of the Spine. There are two morbid states of the spinal column which occur so frequently, and are attended with such important effects on the system, that they require to be considered by themselves. These are inflammation, and some of its consequences, with or without cur- vature, and curvature without inflammation. When inflammation occiirs in the vertebrae, it is seated in the spongy textmre which constitutes their bodies, and is indicated first by a dull gnawing pain at the part, which is aggravated by pressure and motion; then a slight degree of swelling generally appears so as to make the spinous processes of the affected vertebrae appear more projecting than usual; the patient loses his appetite and strength ; becoming dull and listless, and preferring the horizontal posture; his inferior extremities are reduced in bulk, and affected with numb- ness and rigidity; whence the gait is awkward and vacillating, the legs frequently crossing each other, while the trunk is held pecu- liarly erect and rigid, to protect the diseased part from motion. As the disease advances, the patient sometimes loses the use of his limbs entirely; and, in addition to his other complaints, is gene- rally distressed by an uneasy feeling at the pit of the stomach, and a painful sense of constriction round the chest, in tlie region of the diaphrfigm. Suppuration usually ensues, and the matter is either confined to the neighboui'hood of the bone affected, or descends in