PELVIS. 345 sleep, while the resistance of the volimtary muscles at the neck and membranous part of the urethra is no longer opposed to its evacua- tion, the water flows away gently without awakening the patient. The treatment of this palsied state of the bladder, whatever he its cause or degree, absolutely requires, in the first place, that the water should be drawn ofij since it is only by being allowed to con- tract that the muscular fibres can recover their usual power. This is effected by introducing a catheter, which may be either flexible or rigid,—the former being made of elastic gum, and the latter of silver. Unless there is reason to suspect some morbid alteration in the width or direction of the urethra,—the mode of discovering and treating which will be explained hereafter, an instriuuent should be selected equal in size to the ordinai’y width of the canal. Different surgeons prefer different cm-vatures of the cathe- ter ; but it may be observed in general that it is passed most readily when the bent part is short. The patient should be laid reclining, or made to stand erect with his back supported. The surgeon, holding the penis between the thumb and fingers of his left hand, introduces the point of the catheter, lubricated with oil, into the urethra, and pushes it gently onwards, at the same time stretching the penis. Until he reaches the bulb, which is about six inches and a-half distance from the orifice of the extended urethra, it is of little consequence in what direction the curvature of the instrument is held; but, provided the passage is soimd, if he oc- casions pain, or uses force, or presses so as to make the point pro- ject on any side, awkwardness may be inferred. The easiest mode for a beginner in executing this part of the process is, to hold the handle of the catheter parallel with, and near to, the parietes of the abdomen, in the direction of the linea semilunaris, and press on without any alteratit>n of position, until the point ar- rives at the bulb. He then relinquishes his hold of the penis with the left hand, applies the points of its fingers to the perineum at the verge of the anus, and bringing the catheter into the direction of the mesial plane, withdraws the handle from the abdomen, so as to make the point ascend from the dilatation at the bulb, into the more narrow membranous part of the canal. By simply con- tinuing to depress the handle, and supporting the perineum, or in- troducing his fore-finger into the rectum, so as to elevate the jioint more effectually, he conveys the catheter fairly into the bladder. A surgeon, who is practised in the operation, will find it more con- venient, especially when the patient is standing, to introduce the