477 MOUTIT. shaves oft'a similar portion from the other side, and lastly unites the two raw surfaces by means of either the twisted or the interrupted suture. Silver pins with moveable steel points, or hare-lip pins, as they were called, used to be employed for this purpose, but common sewing needles or lace pins are on many accounts much more convenient The heads of the former should be covered with sealing wax to fa- cilitate their introduction. Two are required in general, and at most three. One ought to be inserted close to the margin of the prolabium, or where the colom'ed part of the lip begins, and so deeply as to leave little more than the mucous membrane not in- cluded. Another, or two more if necessary, being introduced in a similar w^ay, a silk thread is wound round each needle separately so as to draw the edges into close contact. The points of the needles are easily broken oflF, and no dressing is required for the w'ound. 1 generally employ one needle at the margin of the lip, or two stitches of the interrupted suture. The needles may be taken out on the fourth day after the operation, but the cheeks should be supported for a week or even longer by a strap of adhesive plaster placed across the face. In cases where there are two fissures, the operation that has been described ought to be performed first on the one, and after it is firmly united, on the other, unless the intermediate portion is so small as not to reach the margin of the lip, in which case both of its edges, and also the corresponding ones, should be made raw at the same time; three needles being then introduced, one at the margin of the lip, one near the nose, and one in the middle passing through the apex of the triangular piece. Split palate does not admit of any remedy for the division of the hard part, except the closure of the communication between the nose and mouth by a piece of silver, enamel, or other substance so fitted as to remain in it without shifting, Fissm-e of the soft palate may be united in favourable cases by an operation similar to that for the hare-lip, but which is exceedingly difficult of exe- cution, owing to the situation of the parts, their mobility, and the involuntary efforts of the patient. It would be impracticable, ex- cept in adults possessed of considerable fortitude, and in cases where the state of the parts is favourable to union, the difficulty of course increasing witli the width of the breach. The edges may be made raw by means of either the scissors or the knife, the lat- ter of which is the most convenient As it is impossible to employ the twisted suture, stitches must be introduced, and for this j)ur- poB3 various instruments and modes of procedure have been con-