PELVIS 303 which they increase in size always bears a direct proportion to the derangement of the urinary secretion. The circumstances which tend to occasion excess in the acid and saline constituents of the urine are chiefly the following; 1. imper- fect digestion, attended with acidity of stomach; in which case the urine has a deep brownish-red colour, and deposits either crystal- lized grains of uric acid that have separated from the fluid in the kidney, or a red lateritious sediment on cooling; 2. an irritated state of the kidneys, attended with pain of the loins, quickness of the pulse, and anxiety of the countenance; in which case the imine is copious, pale-coloured, and deposits such a quantity of the phos- phates on cooling as to become turbid and white like milk ; 3. a si- milar state of irritation, chiefly affecting the bladdei', and attended with a copious secretion of mucus; in which case the urine Inis a very disagreeable ammoniacal odour, and deposits the triple phos- phate of magnesia and ammonia, either crj^stallized or amorphous. The condition of the urine during the deposition of oxalate of lime, and some animal substances that will be mentioned hereafter, has not yet been well ascertained. From an attentive consideration of these circumstances, it appears that the presence of a calculus may promote the formation of con- cretions from the urine, 1. by affording a nucleus; 2. by irritating the bladder, increasing the quantity of mucus, and accelerating the putrefactive decomposition of the urine, during which the urea is converted into ammonia, and an excess of the triple phosphate re- sults ; 3. by causing sympathetic irritation of the kidneys, which perverts their secreting action, and leads to the formation of the earthy salts in redundant quantity ; 4. by sympathetically irritating the stomach, and occasioning imperfect digestion, attended with acidity. By operating in one or more of these modes, the nucleus, when once formed, always increases, and even tends to cause the generation of new ones. The nucleus, unless when consisting of a foreign body introduced into the bladder, is almost invariably con- stituted by a concretion formed in the kidney. This renal calculus, in the great majority of cases, as has been already observed, is an aggregation of uric acid gi’ains, but may also consist of oxalate of lime. It is often observed by patients, that previously to suffering from the symptoms of calculus, they were accustomed to pass red grains of uric acid,—sand or gravel as they are usually called,—and that they ceased to do so for some time before the commencement