297 THORAX. yond seventy, the diseased action is so low, and the chance of trouhlesome symptoms consequently so small, that the pain and risk of an operation, however inconsiderable, would in general not be warranted. In my own practice I decline to operate except in cases of the third class just mentioned; and have no hesitation in advis- ing this limitation of interference with the knife, having seen much mischief and no benefit fi'om operations where the glands were affect- ed, though only in a slight degree. When the operation is to be performed, the patient should be seated on a chair, or laid in a reclining posture, properly support- ed, and turned towards the light The nipple, as being a part like- ly to take up the diseased action, if it has not already done so, and, for the same reason, the whole of the gland, should always be taken away. For tliis purpose two curved incisions are to be made in the direction of the fibres of the ])cctoral muscle including an ellip- tical portion of the integuments together with the nipple; unless the particular circumstances of the case render it more convenient to cut in some other way, so as to remove the whole of the aftected integument In calculating the direction and extent of the inci- sions, the object should be, in the first place, to include all the skin that is diseased; and in the second, to leave no more of it than what is sufficient for allowing the edges of the womid to be brought together without straining. The surgeon then, dissecting with the bistoury represented, Plate I. Fig. 4, exposes the anterior sur- face of the tumour completely, first separating the lower flap, and then the upper one, while the assistant presses his fingers on the orifices of the divided arteries. In doing this he should proceed cautiously and deliberately, so as to cut wide of the confines of the disease, and keeping in mind that the permanency of recovery is a more important object than the rapidity of the operation. Pie last- ly turns up the edge of tlie tumour at its axillary extremity, or the other if more convenient, and, with a few sweeps of the knife, de- taches the remaining connections, in dividing which no reserve is necessary. The vessels tliat continue to bleed are then tied; and, if there are glands to be removed from the axilla, he next cuts down upon them, seizes them, one by one, with a hook, and partly by cutting, but also by tearing, completes their separation; after which, any more ligatures that seem requisite are applied. It has been proposed in such cases to remove the glands before the mam- ma, on the ground, that, as the arteries wounded in the operation come chiefly from the axilla, the dissection shoidd be commenced