74 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. The medullary growth bears a close resemblance to the sub- stance of brain, not only in appearance, but also in chemical com- position. When divided it seems as if composed of irregular masses, inclosed, and separated from each other more or less completely by thin membrano’us septa, which become more ob- ^dous after the soft pulpy mass is removed by maceration, or the action of alkalies. The consistence of the tumour, though in ge- neral pretty nearly that of the brain, is sometimes much denser; at other times more approaching fluidity than the natural state of this tissue. Its colour also is subject to much variety, from al- most pure white to the darkest red,—the difference in this respect seeming to depend on the quantity of blood which circulates through the growth, or is effused into its interstices. The proportion of blood is sometimes so great, that the tumour when divided resem- bles a coagulum ; but more frequently it exhibits merely spots or blotches, irregularly interspersed through the substance of the mass. Occasionally, but not frequently, tliis morbid growth appears in the form of a cyst, the parietes of which, though of little thickness, are composed of the cerebriform structure, while the cavity is occu- pied by clear serous fluid, usually of a greenish colour. It is then apt to be mistaken for distension of a bursa or an abscess'; especial- ly as the most common seat of the disefise in tins form is the upper and inner part of the thigh. INIedullary sarcoma may occur in any tissue of the body, but ori- ginates most frequently in the bones, testicle, mamma, and eye ; next to which the subcutaneous cellular textime, brain, and lym- phatic glands, are the most common seats of its commencement, lake carcinoma, it extends itself both into the neighbom-ing parts and along the absorbents: but spreads in the former more readily than in the latter direction, which is the reverse,-as has been already stated, of what happens in regard to the other disease. It occurs at all ages, but is most frequently met with in infants, and adults between twenty and forty. It is recognized by its soft semi-fluc- tuating consistence, which is sometimes very apt to make the swel- ling be regarded as depending on the presence of a fluid. The superficial veins become very much enlarged ; but as they do so, though Irnrdly to the same extent, in nearly all chronic enlarge- ments, this diagnostic mark must be considered merely as a corrobo- ration of the more positive evidence which is afforded by the consist- ence, situation, and history of the tumovu*. The pain that attends 4