PELVIS. 341 merely an external or internal opening, or both the one and the other. The external orifice is variously situated, but generally ex- ists at one side, and is seldom cither before or behind the anus. It is usually small, and surrounded with an elevated indication, more or less distinct. The internal opening was thought equally variable in respect to its distance from the anus, and was searched for at the highest part to which the sinus reached. M. llibes ascertained the important fact, that, if existing at all, it is almost invariably seated immediately within the fibres of the external spliincter, about an inch or little more from the sicface, and can hence be brought nearly or altogether into view by forcibly separating the nates. It is generally small, and often extremely so, permitting a probe to pass not without difficulty. The symptoms of the primary abscess are pain, hardness, and slight diffused elevation in the neighbourhood of the anus, from which relief is obtained upon a discharge of matter taking place externally, or from the gut There is great variety in the degree of acuteness, and in the progress of the disease, the pain being sometimes very severe, and at others hardly perceptible, while eva- cuation may be accomplished in the course of a week, or not until the expiration of months. The remaining sinus affords a thin dis- charge, which is sometimes very copious, and at others so scanty, that the patient might suppose he had got quite well, were it not for a slight staining of the linen, that is occasionally observed, and an imeasy sensation felt now and then in the parts affected. The unceasing action of the sphincter, which tends to separate the sides of the sinus, and the passage of liquid or gaseous matters from the intestine through it, not only prevent the cavity from closing, but render its parietes thick and callous from the interstitial effusion of lymph, wliich is induced by the continued irritation thus occa- sioned. The causes of abscess in this situation are chiefly the inflamma- tion of hemorrhoids, remaining long in- a sitting posture, constitu- tional distm'bance, and local irritation from foreign bodies arrested in the rectum. Males are more subject to the disease than females, who comparatively rarely suffer from it. It occurs most frequently during the vigour of life, between twenty and fifty years of age, and is very often met with in phthisieal persons, whether owing to the irritation that is occasioned by the morbid state of the lungs, or dependent on the ulceration of the intestines, which generally