PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 380 ever, of urinoua hifiltration, which was equally obvious in theory and serious in practice, more than counterbalanced these argu- ments ; and the means contrived for preventing this dangerous con- sequence either proved insufficient, or, by their complexity and irri- tation, destroyed the great ground of superiority contended for. The high operation is now performed by very few surgeons, and will probfibly soon cease to be practised at all. The recto-vesical me- thod was introduced by Vacca and Sanson (1816) and through the influence of their recommendation, together with that of some other surgeons, attracted considerable attention for a few years. It consisted in dividing the sphincter ani, rectum, membranous part of the urethra, and prostate, so as to lay the two canals thus far in- to one, through which the stone could be easily extracted. This was effected by introducing into the bladder a staflT grooved on its convex side, cutting through the sphincter and the integuments of the perineum, and then conveying in a sharp-pointed curved bis- toury, which being entered into the groove beyond the prostate, and carried steadily forwards, completed the cutting part of the operation at once. It was contended that the stone could thus be got out very easily, and with hardly more pain than what attends the operation for fistula in am,—that there could be no danger of bleeding incurred,—and that the risk of urinous infiltration, as well as inflammation, would be less than after the lateral operation. The great objection that obviously suggested itself was the probability of a recto-vesical fistula; but the free division of the spliincter seemed likely to diminish the chance of this, and experience proved that it did uotoften happen. In the hands of an inexpert operator this method is perhaps the least difficult; but it certainly must be re- garded as decidedly inferior to the lateral operation, when properly perfonned, as well in regard to the danger of its immediate effects, as in prospect of the patient’s condition after recovery being ac- complished. Retention of Urine m Females. From the shortness, straight direction, and width of the urethra, together with the absence of a prostate gland, females are much less liable to retention of urine than males. They suffer from it, however, occasionally, in consequence of the following circum- stances:—1. Paralysis from distension; 2. The pressure of a gra- vid uterus; and 3. Retroversion of the uterus. The female bladder is more capacious than that of the male, and