415 GEN IT A r, OEGAKS, both locally and internally, with the view of promoting the discus- sion of sucli growths; but it is probable that nothing can have any beneficial effect upon their progress except attention to the mode of life, which should be of a kind calculated to excite as little as pos- sible the system in general, and the uterus in particulai-. Any oj)e- ration is quite out of the question. Cancer of the uterus occurs occasionally, but is fortunately not frequent, since the situation and connections of the parts affected ])revent the only effectual remedy for carcinomatous disease from being put in practice, without inflicting a mortal injury. A few cases ai’e recorded in which the uterus is said to have been extir- pated when previously prolapsed beyond the orifice of the vagina, and permanently retained in this situation by the adhesions result- ing from inflammation. It is oidy in such circumstances that the operation ought ever to be contemplated, and even here it must be regarded as affording a very small chance of success, so that, un- less the patient’s sufferings are vci’y great, and threaten to termi- nate fatally soon, it could hardly be recommended with projirietj'. Langenbeck* supposed that he succeeded, on one occasion, in dis- secting out the uterus without injury to the peritoneum, which re- mained in the form of a bag, and the patient did well. It is diffi- cult to conceive how such a dissection could be successfully exe- cuted ; and it would be wrong to undertake the operation with al- most any expectation of doing so. If removal is attempted in the case of prolapsus, an incision should be made on each side so as to embrace the neck of the uterus, and while the diseased mass is pull- ed strongly outwards, its detachment is completed by carrying on the dissection inwards, the vessels being tied as they are divided. I’erfect rest, the strictest antiphlogistic regimen, and cold applica- tions to the external parts, must be enjoined after the patient is put to bed, together with depletion, oj)iates, or other means that may- be suggested by the circumstances of the case. The uterus may be extirpated more easily and safely, when it is in the state named Inversion by accoucheurs. It is in this case turned inside out, so as to form a round or pyriform tumour, cither confined to the vagina, or protruded beyond tbe vulva. When this eversion, which generally takes place at the time of delivery, is not immediately remedied, it is apt to become irreducible ; and the pa- tient suffers many disagreeable symptoms fi'om the unnatural con- dition of the organ, csp(*;ially frequent hemorrhage, down-bearing • Neue Bibliotbck fiir die Chirurg. Bd. i.