240 rillXCITLES OFSUUGKRY. have been em})loyed, recourse must be had to a more efficient mode of treatment. This is counter-irritation, and though the various methods of effecting it by blisters, setons, caustic issues, and moxa, are all occasionally beneficial, the actual cautery ought always to be preferred as the most powerful means that can be employed. The best place for applying it is the hollow between the trochanter major and the tuberosity of the ischium, where a broad eschar, se- veral inches in length, should be formed. The patient must be kept perfectly quiet during the cure, wlfich generally requires several months. He seldom experiences much benefit until the slough se- parates, and the ulcerated surface begins to discharge freely. Should there aj)pear any tendency to heal prematurely, it may be easily checked by applying some diluted ointment of cantharides; and if the sore remains open after the diseased action seems to be at an end, some astringent wash, such as the solution of the acetate of lead, should be applied to promote its cicatrization. ^\Tien the disease goes on to suppuration in adults, the case may be consider- ed neai'ly hopeless, as caries then almost always ensues, and being seated in a part where excision cannot be performed, inevitably ])roves fatal to the patient sooner or later. In children the chance of recovery is much greater, but the limb in this case reniiiins small, ■ rigid, and distorted, the toes being turned sometimes inwards, some-1 times outwards. When the head of the femur is little affected, and jf the ravages of the disease, as usually happens, are chiefly exerted^ on the acetabulum, the thigh is rotated inwards, and presents nearly , the same appearance as that which results from ordinary dislocation on the ilium. But when the head of the bone is destroyed by ul- ^ ceration or interstitial absorption, the various muscles tending to effect rotation outwards, being no longer opposed by the usual me-1 chanical resistance, draw the limb into nearly the same position ^ which follows fracture of the neck of the femur, and point the toi*Si^ outwai’ds. 'I JExcisio?i of the Joints. j| It has been explained in regard to the treatment of caries, that!* the only remedy for this discjised action is removal of the affectedjil ])ortion of the bone. Amj)utation has until lately been regarded ^ as almost the only means of relief from carious joints. But it is • now ascertained by exj)orience, that, on some occasions, the limb may be saved by cutting out the articulation. The softened, dis-. coloured, and ulcerated integuments, the thickened and indurated