PRINC1PI.ES OF SURGERY. 318 has accumulated to an injurious extent To counteract the constipat- ing effect of the oj)ium injection, and remove any source of irrita- tion from the intestinal canal, a table-spoonfid of castor-oil should be given every day or two, according to circumstances. The food of the patient should be of the least stimulating kind; and he should drink freely of mucilaginous diluent fluids, such as barley- water, containing small quantities of carbonate of soda,—nitrous ether,—or camphor mixture. Bodily fatigue and exposure to cold must be strictly avoided. Stricture of the Urethra. Strictures of the urethra were formerly attributed to fleshy ex- crescences obstructing the canal, and spasmodic contraction of the fibres lying in the substance or on the external surface of the ure- thra. It is now almost universally admitted, that they invariably depend upon narrowing and tlilckening of the lining coat, from lymph being effused and organized in its interstices. There is thus’ produced a constriction, varying in tightness from the slightest perceptible diminution of capacity to almost complete closure,—and in extent, from the breadth of a thread to the length of an inch or more. In some very rare cases the stricture has been found on cbssection to exhibit what is called a bridle form, there being a fibrous band stretched across from one side of the ca- nal to the other, in consequence, no doubt, of lynqjh having been effused into the interior of the canal, and organized there. The most common seat of strictiu’e is at the bulb, about six inches from the orifice. The one next in frequency is at the part where the penis bends upon itself when pendulous, which is about three inches and a-half from the orifice. The other situations particularly ex- posed to its occurrence are the neck of the glans and orifice of the luethra ; but the whole extent of the canal anterior to the proshite gland is subject to the disease^ Two or more strictures are often met with in the same urethra, but when this is the case, one of them is almost always at the bxilb, and in general proves the most con- firmed of the whole. Tlie cause of strictures CJinnot often be j)osi- tively ascertained. There can be no doubt that a very large j)ro- portion of them occur subsequently to gonorrhoea, but whether this 1)0 in consequence of the disease, or the means employed to remedy it, admits of question. It may be safely stilted, thiit inflammation, or at iill'events excitement of the urethni, precedes the adhesive process which establishes the tliickcning and induration, and what-