185 BONES. piously secreted; and the exfoliation slioidd be examined from time to time with the probe, to ascertain whether or not it has be- come detached. So soon as it is found to be loose, it ought to be removed by means of forceps, either tlu’ough the opening which already exists in the integuments, or a suitable extension of it. The remaining smface granulates, and osseous matter is effused imder the pellicle, so as to fill up the breach partially, but usually leaving a permanent depression at the part. Internal Exfoliation.—It is of course only in the cylindrical bones that exfoliation from an internal surface can take place; and those of the largest size are most frequently the seat of it. The cause is almost always inflammation, since the injuries which directly occa- sion necrosis can rarely operate on the interior of a bone. The exfoliation in this situation is named a seqicestrum. It separates from the sound bone as in the former case; but having done so, cannot escape through the walls of the shaft within which it is in- closed, and therefore remains a permanent source of irritation. The living bone in consequence becomes greatly thickened, and new osseous matter is copiously effused from its external surface in the form of irregular projecting tubercles. At the same time the pus, winch is pent up witliin the cavity, by its pressme on the parietes, induces absorption, and the formation of cylindrical apertures through the shell of the bone. These cloacae, as they are named, allow the confined matter to escape, and present itself under the integuments in the form of an abscess, which, if not opened by the smgeon, sooner or later evacuates its contents by ulceration. Thus far during the process, the patient suffers from j>ain and swelling of the limb, but after the matter ob- tains free vent, he finds himself greatly relieved. The enlargement, though it does not disappear altogether, subsides very much, and so little uneasiness remains that he is generally able to make some use of the limb. If it should fortunately happen that the se- qucstriun is not only small, but also favourably situated for escap- ing tlu’ough a cloaca, the source of irritation being thus removed, the patient may be restored to health. ' But if the sequestra do not pass out spontaneously, the surgeon, having ascertained their pre- sence by the probe, must enlarge the opening wdiich leads into the cavity containing them, so as to obtain space sufficient for their ex- ti action. In order to do this, he makes a simple, or, if the part admits of it, a crucial incision through the integiuncnts, having the cloaca for its centre, dissects back the fla})s, and applies the trephine