PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 3.06 redness. But there seems to be good reason for thinking, that the local abstraction of blood is apt to render the morbid process more slow and obstinate, so that the patient suffers much more than if the disease had not been thus retarded. Warm fomenta- tions, cathartics, and above all, healing of the sores, are the most eflectual means for resolving the inflammation; while, if suppura- tion does take place, these means are conducive to its speedy and perfect accomplishment. If the swelling proves very indolent, blis- ters and tartrate of antimony ointment are often very useful in ef- fecting its discussion, or hastening suppuration, if it is in progress; and it not unfrequently happens, that these means excite absorption of the pus even after it is distinctly perceptible by fluctuation, which is always very desirable, as a breach of the integuments ought, if possible, to be avoided in persons in whom the sluggishness of lo- cal action indicates a bad constitution. When the matter is fully formed, it should be evacuated by free incision, after which the ca- vity may be poulticed for a few days, and then dressed with a me- tidlic wash. Should the surface present an unsound appearance, caustic potass ought to be employed for its destruction. If the glandular structure protrudes through the aperture, or rises above the bottom of the cavity in spongy-looking, ash-coloured masses, the whole of it must either be subjected to the action of the caus- tic, or first be removed in part by the knife or scissors. Should sinuses exist, owing to the aperture being too small or unfavourably situated, they are to be laid fairly open. In patients of feeble con- stitution, starvation and confinement are often the sources of obsti- nacy in the resulting ulcer, and must be obviated by an alteration of regimen. If the system has been injured by mercury, the cure is sometimes rendered extremely tedious. In such cases, the gra- dual restoration of healthy action, which takes place through time, together with the external application of caustic, black-wash, or sul- phate of zinc lotion, may be confided in as the best means of pro- moting recovery. When buboes ])resent a phagedenic or slough- ing character, they must be treated on the same principles as sores of the penis in similar circumsUinces. Phj/mosis. By phymosis is understood a condition of the prepuce, in which it cannot be drawn back, so as to expose the glans. This condition may be cither pcriTianent or temporary; in the former case depend- ing on the small size of the orifice, and in the latter resulting from