201 BONES. Anatomical Museum of the University; and the osseous substance niay be regarded as devoid of any morbid disposition, so that if the contents vrere removed it woxxld contract to its ordinary dimensions. The same observations apply to the spicular or foliated exostosis, which is always found connected with some source of irritation, and is to be looked upon rather as a consequence than a part of the disease. The causes usually concerned in giving rise to this pro- duction, are morbid growths, ulcerations in its neighbourhood, and exfoliation from its internal surface (Plate X. Fig. 1). Fihro-Cartilaginous Tumour of Bone. It is usual to comprehend all the solid tumom-s of bone, the con- sistence of which is less hard than that of the bone itself, under the title of Osteo-sarcoma. But as this leads to much confusion, it is better to divide the softer tumours of bone into the fibro-cartilagl- nous, and medullary-sarcomatous, which differ essentially in their nature and consequences. The fibro-cartilaginous tumoim, when occurring in bones, pos- I sesses the characters which have been already described in the ] general account of tliis kind of morbid growth. Its colour is white, 1 grey, or yellow; its consistence nearly approaches that of carti- lage, and it lias often interspersed through it small cysts of transpa- rent fluid. It generally originates in the central part of the bone affected, and gradually enlarging, expands the surrounding shell, wliich still preserves the properties of sound osseous tissue, though sometimes singularly altered in shape. The tumour is productive of little inconvenience except from its size, but on this account is often a source of great annoyance and itistress; as when the lower jaw, humerus, metacarpal bones, or phalanges of the fingers are affected (Plate, X. Fig. 2 ; also Plate XI. Figs. 1 and 2). There is reason to believe, that if the fibro-cartilaginous substance could be com- pletely eradicated, the bone would resume its natural shape and size; but as its cellular or honeycomb-looking structure, when ex- panded by the disease, renders such an extraction impracticable, the only remedy is removal of the bone affected; and this ope- ration, however disagreeable in some situations from the defor- mity occasioned by it, may at least be perfonned with a favour- able prospect of effecting a permanent cure. Medullary-Sarcomatous Tumour of Done. Medullary-sarcoma occurs in bones perhaps more frequently than in any other tissue of the body. It commences sometimes immediate-