441 SKIN. By Erysipelas is understood an inflammation of the skin, more deeply seated and less disposed to shift its place than erythema, and which tends to terminate in eflPusion of serum under the cuticle, elevating it into vesicles. The skin may be affected either alone or together with the subjacent cellular textime. In the former case the swelling, though distinctly perceptible, is slight, the surface is red, tense, and glistening, and vesicles of variable size soon make their appearance. In the latter, which is styled phlegmonous ery- sipelas, the swelling is more considerable, but the other symptoms are the same; and the most important difference is established by the result, M'hich is apt to be suppimation or sloughing. The con- stitutional disturbance, that precedes the appetirance of erysipelas, is of the same kind as that which goes before erythema, but seldom proves so severe. The patient complains of headach, bad taste in his mouth, and coldness; and when the skin inflames, his general uneasiness, so far from increasing, generally diminishes very much, or entirely subsides. The head is the part of the body most frequently affected by ery- sipelas, and, along with the external inflammation, there are usually symptoms denoting an excited condition of the internal organs. The causes of erysipehis resemble those of erythema, but differ in so far that they depend more ujjon peculiarities of the individual. It occurs as often when there is no wound, as when there is one; and it is almost confined to those persons whose general health is previously deranged, particularly in regard to their biliary secre- tions, and by intemperance. In the treatment more benefit is de- rived from local remedies, and antiphlogistic measures of a general kind are more frequently required than those of a stunulating na- ture. When the head is concerned, blood should almost always be abstracted freely by venesection ; and it is only when the patient’s system is extremely weak that an opposite method ought to be pur- sued. A dilute solution of the tartrate of antimony, with the su- pertartrate of potass, or with the saline purgatives, if given freely and frequently, so as to maintain a degree of nausea, with occa- sional vomiting and copious discharge from the bowels, exerts a })owerful influence in subduing the disease. Of local means, those of a repellent kind, such as cold lotions, are considered unsafe, at least if they are used before the constitutional disorder has been removed. J51 ceding from the inflamed surface affords the most de- cided benefit, and may be obtained by leeching, ])uncturing, or scimifying. It has been objected to the use of leeches, that it may