159 AMPUTATION. and may be performed in vainous ways, with three of which the sur- geon should he familkr, as the state of the parts concerned some- times leaves no room for choice. 1. The stxrgeon introduces the point of a long narrow knife a little nearer the clavicle tlian the middle space between the acro- mion and coracoid processes, thrusts it downwards and backwards imtil it issues at the inferior margin of the axilla, and then cuts in the same direction, so as to form a large external flap. Having, in doing tliis, cut through part of the capsular ligament, he has no difficulty in passing the knife round the head of the humerus, and making a suitable flap from the remaining parts, the assistant in- troducing his finger as soon as sufficient room is aflTorded for the purpose, and compressing the vessel. If the left arm is the subject of operation, the knife may be introduced at the lower margin of the axilla, and brought out at the point where it is entered in the former way. 2. The circulation through the subclavian artery being arrested by pressure with the thimib above the clavicle, where the vessel is- sues from between the scaleni, and rests on the first rib, the sur- geon tlmists a sharp-pointed knife down to the head of tlie hume- nos, immediately below the acromion process ; and cutting down- wards in a semilunar direction, first on one side, and then on the other, so that the two incisions meet in the axilla, he fonns two la- teral flaps, which, being dissected back, expose the joint, and enable him to effect the disarticiilation very readily, by pushing his knife through the capsular ligament, and then cutting roimd the glenoid cavity. 3. The surgeon cuts in a semilunar direction from one side of the deltoid to the other, so as to form a large flap of this muscle, which, being dissected from its subjacent connections, and held up exposes the joint, allows the disarticulation to be completed, and pemuts the fingers of the assistant to be introduced to compress the vessels before they m’e divided, together with the remaining mms- cles and integuments, by a transverse incision. After all of these operations, of which the one first mentioned should be prefen-ed when circumstances permit its perfonnance which is generally the case, the arteries ought of course to be tied, the edges of the flaps stitched together, and a proper bandage ap- plied.