NOSE. 493 - frequently eneroaehes so much on the nostril as to occasion serious inconvenience. The next kind of polypous growth from the nasal cavities that may be mentioned, is of variable consistence, from the softness of brain to the firmness of glandular tissue, but is always extremely friable in its structure, so as to tear easily, and when subjected to extension, gives way at the part where the force is applied. It bleeds profusely when injured—tends to increase without any limi- tation, making room for its accommodation by expanding and se- parating the bones of the face—and is found to originate from the osseous substance of the parietes of the cavity. This medullary, bleeding, or malignant polypus, as it is named, usually oeexus at the middle and later periods of life. It is distinguished by the cha- racters which have been mentioned, and by being attended with j)ain, and bloody or purulent fetid discharge. The rapidity of its progress is very variable, but its result is always unfavourable. The radical removal of this disease is impracticable, and when the morbid disposition is very active, or when the disposition to bleed is great, any attempts to delay its progress by extracting as much of the mass as can be reached, are hardly prudent, being more likely to accelerate than prolong the patient’s fate. In cases of a milder description, advantage seems often to be derived from clearing the nostrils occasionally, which is easily accomplished, and relieves the patient from time to time. The operation cannot be ]>erformed well with forceps alone, as the want of cohesion in the morbid structure prevents them from removing any more of the mass than what is actually embraced between their blades. Knives, scissors, and hooks are employed, but the best instrument for the purpose is a finger, which, being introduced into the expanded nos- trils, feels where the polypus is attached, and forces it away from the bone. The cavity having been thus emptied, is stuffed with lint to stop the bleeding, and caustic or astringent lotions may be after- wards applied. The third and last kind of polypus that requires to be noticed is remarkably distinguished by the extreme firmness of its texture, which nearly equals tendon in strength. It is distinctly fibrous, and has hence been named the Fibrous Poly])Us. It bleeds pro- fusely when injured, increases without any limit, descending into the pharynx, and proceeding beyond the external orifice of the nose, and ultimately proves fatal by causing hemorrhage, suffoca- tion, or pressure on the brain. It almost always exists singly, and