BLOOD-VESSELS. 89 and after a time ceases, when the wound heals as it would have tlone in other circuinstauces. ■ Various explanations have been of- fered to account for the spontaneous cessation of arterial hemor- rhage. J’etit (1730,) referred it to the coagulation of blood, first without and then within the orifice of the vessel, so as to form a sort of cork or stopper to it. Morand, (1736,) in addition to co- agulation, insisted upon their being also contraction of the mouth of the artery, both as to length and width, so that it assumed a conical form, which retained the clot. Pouteau (1760,) rejected the preceding explanations, and referred the whole effect t6 injec- tion of blood into the cellular substance. Dr Kirkland (1763,) maintiiined, to the conviction for a long while of most surgeons in tliis country, that the process consisted.in shrinking and oblitera- tion of the wounded vessel up to the first branch that came off above the injured part In 1807, Dr Jones proved, by a full and conclusive course of experiments, that none of these opinions were correct,—that the process in question was a complicated one,—and that it consisted of various distinct steps. He ascertuned that, in the first place, the extremity of the artery contracted somewhat, and withdrew itself by retraction; that then the blood was inject- ed into the surrounding cellular subsfiince, especially that of the sheath, and coagulated there, after which a coagulum formed first on the outside, then in the interior of the orifice of the vessel; and that lastly, IjTuph being effused from the cut edges of the arterial coats, became gradually organized, so as to comjdete the obstruc- tion. In the course of time the artery contracted iqi to the first branch, and the clots were absorbed, when the cure might be con- sidered complete. When the artery which has been wounded is prevented from retracting by its firm connection with the neigh- bouring parts, or by being only partially divided, or when the sur- rounding cellular substance is either very dense or very lax, this process is iraj)eded, and the hemorrhage proves more obstinate than in ordinary cases. On the contrary, when an artery is not cut, but torn across, it seldom bleeds at all, even though of large size, be- cause the external or cellidar coat being the last to give way during the stretcliing of the artery, when at last ruptured, is elon- gated biiyond the internal and middle ones, and instead of re- suming its relative situation with regard to them, collapses into a conical form, so as effectually to close the orifice. Tliis explana- tion I ventured originally to give on the authority of exjieriments repeatedly performed, and as affording a mox*e satisfactory expla- nation of the fact than tliose hitherto offered to account for it, viz.