426 PRINCIPLES OF SUROERY. Depression of the cranium happens more readily in young than in old subjects ; h\it produces less inconvenience in the former than the latter, owing to the yielding condition of the hones at their time of life, which allows the cavity, when diminished at one part, to expand in another. Where a perceptible depression exists, the syraj)torns may be fairly referred to the compression thus caused; since, when the case is broken, it is not likely that the contents should be so much shaken as when it remains entire. It was formerly thought that the symptoms of compression per- emptorily required the immediate performance of an ,operation, for raising the depressed portion of the skull, or affording vent to ef- fused blood. The ample exj)erience of a different ])ractice, follow- ed in modern surgery, has proved that in most cases, unless the substance of the brain has suffered serious injury from concussion, the condition of the patient labouring under compression will not be altered for the worse, and in many will amend, if some days ai’e allowed to elapse after the injury has been sustained, before pro- ceeding to trepan the skull. The sedutary change depends, no doubt, partly upon the effects of absorption,—partly upon the brain becoming accommodated to the diminished size of its containing case; and it will be promoted by bleeding, active cathartics, and powerful injections tlirown into the rectum. If the symptoms do not diminish, or if they increase, the operation must be performed; and the proper time for determining on it is regulated by the par- ticular features of the case. Should depression of the skull be as- sociated with a wound of the scalp, penetrating to the bone, a very short trial of the means calculated to supersede the necessity of an operation will be sufficient, as the fracture is already a compound one, and consequently not liable to be aggravated in this import- ant respect by trepaning. On other occasions, two or three days may generally be allowed to pass without any bad consequences. In operating for depression of the cranium, the saw shoxdd be ap- j)lied on the sound part, so as to remove the overlajxping edge that prevents the broken portion from being raised into its jxlace by a le- vator, or taken away altogether. If the blood effused is found under the dura mater, which then appears unusually tense and presents a bluish appearance, an opening ought not to be made through the membrane, since there is great danger in cutting into the cavity of the arachnoid, and little advantage is to be expected from doing so, as the blood in such a case is spread over an extensive surface.