PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 320 it has contracted adhesions to the parietes of the abdomen, or by wounds. It is always a source of extreme annoyance, and some- times occasions dangerous symj)toms, by the aperture proving in- adequate to discharge the contents of the gut, while they are pre- vented from descending by their natural route. The treatment, therefore, deserves much attention. In the first instance, it is suf- ficient to keep the part clean, and prevent eversion of the upper extremity of the gut by applying gentle pressure, which is also use- ful by directing the feculent matters into their old channel. If the gut has become everted, it ought, if possible, to be immediately reduced; and in case this cannot be accomplished, its more gra- dual return must be promoted by permanent pressure, slender diet, and the horizontal postime. Should the aperture not contract, though there is no protrusion of the intestine, it may be concluded that a septum exists between the two extremities of the tube above or below the aperture; and its situation having been ascertained by careful examination, the compressing instrument of Dupuytren is to be cautiously employed. The blades of the forceps should be at first very gently appr’oximated, and never tightened so as to occasion any disagreeable symptoms. When the piece included is detached by ulceration, and the forceps fall off, the case must be treated by gentle pressure and attention to the bowels, as if the septum had not existed. Femoral Hernia. The femoral vessels descending along the inner margin of the psoas mar/iuis rest upon a fascia which covers that muscle, together with the neighbouring iliacus mternus, and also lines the cavity of the pelvis. This iliac fascia, as it is named, is united to t\\Q fascia transversalis, so as to appear quite continuous with it, when both arc brought into view by stripping off the peritoneum from the in- ner surface of the abdominal parietes. They leave, however, an oval aperture to let the vessels pass through them, which it is ne- cessary to consider particularly. The union of tlie two fasciae is continued from the pubis f)r about an inch and a-half towards the ilium, in the direction of the linea oko~pectinea, where it terminates by a sort of crescentic margin, that is seen very distinctly when the parietes are held up and surveyed from the inner side, after the pe- ritoneum has been removed. ^\^here the fasciae thus meet together, they are intimately and inseparably connected with the reflected margin of the tendinous fascia of the abdomen (tendon of the ox-