399 GENITAL ORGANS. Paraphymosis. In Purapliyraosis the orifice of the prepuce is drawn back behind the glans, and causes compression or strangulation of its neck. This can happen- only where the opening is narrow, without being so much so as to occasion complete phymosis. The narrowest part of the jn-epuce is just at the orifice, where the skin and mucoiis membrane meet; and when it is drawn back so as to denude the glans, the internal lining is apt to protrude more or less beyond tlic ring thus formed, so that the seat of the stricture is not exactly behind the neck of the glans, but separated from it by a circular swelling caused by distension of the protruded internal membrane. A penis suffering from paraphymosis thus presents anteriorly the point of the glans in a tumid state,—then a circular swelling of mucous membrane,—next a deep sulcus, at the bottom of winch is seated the stricture, formed by the narrow orifice of the prepuce, —and lastly, the intcgiunents of the penis more or less swollen, constituting a third enlargement nearer tlie pubis. Paraphymosis occurs at all ages, but most frequently in hoys. It is readily re- cognized by the appearances which have been described, and the symptoms it occasions by impeding the circulation. These are, in addition to the swelling, pain, and the other indications of inflam- mation, which, in circumstances favourable to intensity of action, may terminate in sloughing, but more frequently proves its own cure, by inducing ulceration at the seat of stricture. The treatment obviously requires the use of means proper for effecting reduction of the strictmed glans, and the manipulation for this purpose should be conducted on the same principles as those of the taxis for hernia. The simgeon having anointed the glans with oil, embraces it between the points of the thumb and fingers of his right hand, while with those of the left he makes connter-pressure on the constricting ring. He gently but steadily comj)resses the glans for some minutes, and then, by a combination of pushing and rotation, he endeavours to press the neck of the glans within the stricture. If this proceeding fails, which it very seldom does when properly executed, he separates the swellings on each side of the stricture by bending down the extremity of the ])cnis, so as to bring the tense cord-like portion of the skin which constitutes it into view; and then, with a sharp-pointed curved knife, makes a small incision at the part, about a line in length and depth. The reduction is now readily effected, unless the ])arts should have become consolidated by adhesive effusion, in consequence