144 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY, action to the surrounding tissues, occasion hard painful cords un- der the skin, and red lines on its surface. Still more frequently the lymphatic glands in the course of the absorbents inflame and suppimatc. At other times the patient first complains of cold slii- vering, headach, and vomiting of bilious matter, after which the usual sjTnptoms of fever come on, and are generally characterized by extreme irritation—the pulse being excessively quick—the res- piration very hurried—and the countenance unusually expressive of anxiety. Along with this derangement of the system a diffused inflammatory blush apj)ears in the neighbourhood of the injury, from which it soon extends itself irregularly in varioxxs directions, and, terminating in mortification, proves fatal within a week or little more; or the patient may die, as it seems, merely from the exhaust- ing effect of the irritative fever, with very little local appearance of disease. Since the effects of punctimes now mentioned diflfer from each other very much in kind, and are subject to no less varietj' in the degree of their severity, while they are all occasionally produced, so far as can be ascertained, by the same circumstances—it has been inferred that they depend not so much upon a poisonous in- fluence in the subject dissected, as on pcculiai- irritability of the individual injured. In regard to the treatment it may be observed, 1. That when punctiu-es occur in suspicious circumstances, they ought to be converted into incisions, sucked, and touched with an cscharotic. 2, That persons exposed to such injimies ought to lessen, so far as possible, the irritability of their sj'stems. 3. That, when the effect is an acute and local inflammation, a free incision through the af- fected part affords most relief. 4. That, when the absorbents in- flame, warm solutions of acetate of lead with opium have the most soothing influence. 5. That, when the lymphatic glands become affected, wann fomentations are the most powerful means of re- lieving the patient, wliich they do either by indiicing the inflam- mation to terminate in resolution, or by hastening suppuration if it be inevitable. 6. That, when the constitutional disturbance precedes the local aflfection, and there are signs of gi*eat irritation, scarifications of the inflamed part, followed by hot anodjme fomen- tations, and accompanied with the internal administrations of calo- mel, opium, and cordials, though they may seldom succeed in cur- ing this most dangerous condition, seem to have more tendency to do so than general bleeding and the antiphlogistic regimen, which usually, by increasing the weakness of the patient’s system, increase its irrifeibility, and render its treatment more unmanageable.