413 GENITAL ORGANS. merely in a morbid growth of the cellular suhsUincc, with inter- stitial de{)osition of albuminous matter, so as to give it a very firm consistence. When exposed by a section, the structure appears white, compact, and homogeneous, except where small cells con- Uiining glairy fluid are interspersed through it. The growth be- gins in the lower part of the scrotum, but, as it proceeds, engages the whole of it, together with the skin of the penis, which becomes completely concealed from view. The prepuce is greatly elongat- ed, and presents at its orifice a tuherculated cauliflower-looking excrescence, that does not bear the slightest resemblance to the part in its natural state. There arc no limits to the size which such tumoims may attain. Twenty, forty, or even sixty pounds weight is by no means uncommon; and there is one case on re- cord in which the mass when removed weighed 170 ])ounds.* The disease generally commences in adults, and increases slowly during the remainder of life. It is common in tropical countries, particu- larly the West Indies, but occurs comparatively seldom in the tem- perate climates of Europe. The only remedy for this oppressive growth, which impedes pro- gressive motion, and occasions other serious inconvenitmees, con- sists in its removal. This object has sometimes been attiiined with- out taking away the penis and testicles; but the former of these organs is so deeply imbedded in the substance of the tumour, and its texture is usually so vascular, that such a procedure can seldom be practicable. If an attempt is made to preserve the sexual parts, fla])s of the integuments must be preserved of sufficient size to cover them. Should, on the contrary, the removal of the entire tumom* be determined on, the incisions may be executed with great rapidi- ty, which mode of conducting the operation is much sjifer than cut- ting slowly, with the view of securing the arteries as they are di- vided : for both the pain and hemorrhage are thus greatly in- creased, and the patient, instead of being relieved from his load in a few' seconds, may be detained under the knife for hours. The labium of the female is occasionally the scat of a similar growth. It possesses the same structure, gives rise to similar in- convenience, and admits of no other remedy. Cancer of the Scrotum. MrPott(1775) described acancerous ulceration of the scrotum, w'hich he had frequently remarked in adult chimney-sweepers, Suc- • Titley on the Diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, 1831.