PRINCIPLES OF SUllGEllY. 198 rect result of the primary inflammation. That mere pressure is Ij not sufficient to produce caries may be learned from the want of u any morbid disposition in the sides of the apertures which are formed ^ by absorption to evacuate matter confined in the cavities of bones. ^ In the living body the carious surface is generally more or less com- ^ pletely covered with imhealthy granulations, which often possess - very considerable firmness, and render the discovery of its extent, i or even existence, by no means easy. The disease occurs at all ages, but commences most frequently in the early periods of life. It is most frequently met with in persons disposed to scrofulous | action, and often follows suppuration in bones which have been the i seat of deposits proceeding from that morbid action. • The treatment of caries is to be conducted on the same princi- ples as that of cancer, and consists in the use of means wliich have the effect either of destroying the life of the morbid part, or of re- moving it at once from the system. There is this difference, how- ever, that there being no malignant tendency to take on the same diseased action in the neighbom-ing parts, it is not necessary to re- move any of them, except in order to gain access to the seat of the evil. Notwithstanding this favourable circumstance, it is found extremely difficult to eradicate the disease by depriving the part affected of its vitality. The bone usually lies at a considerable i depth; the caries, though it seldom penetrates deeply into its sub- j stance, generally occupies an extensive and irregular surface; and ' the efiect of agents used with the view of killing the morbid part is necessarily much weakened by its humidity. The concentiated mineral acids—the nitrates of silver and mercurj'—the red oxide of mercury—and the actual cautery, are considered the best means for the purpose. In using them the bone affected ought to bo very freely exposed by a crucial incision, and then dried as well as possible, after which the caustic or cautery selected should be ap- plied so as to produce a decided eflfect. Tlie fluid caustics should be applied by means of a piece of lint soaked in them; the solid ones should be rubbed on the part, or, if they are in the form of a powder, as the red oxide of mercury, laid on it in substance; the cautery should be of a spherical or ovate shape, it must be pressed down firmly, and be succeeded by two or three others imtil the whole morbid surface has been subjected completely to their ac- tion. The effect of all these applications, however carefully employed, is very superficial, and it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to ensure their operation on the whole surface of the