PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 14 of disease at all, the greatest error a practitioner can commit is to collect them, without reference to their relative import- ance as distinctive features of the case. Keeping this con- stantly in view, I shall he careful to explain the circumstances which constitute the ground of every opinion I may form in regard to the patients that come under our observation. And here, gentlemen, I must beg to warn you against plac- ing confidence in the use of certain means which have been proposed as assistants to diagnosis, hut are too frequently em- ployed as substitutes for the careful investigations most con- ducive to the attainment of this object. I allude more espe- cially to the exploring needle and microscope, which are at present much in fashion for facilitating the recognition of morbid growths and deposits. It may seem, at first sight, that, with exception of the rislc of exciting diseased action, which must always attend the thrusting of a foreign body through the living textures, no harm, at all events, can accrue from the information obtained in this way ; but when the sub- ject is more fully considered, I trust it will appear to you in a different view. Far, in the first place, it must be admitted, that reliance upon such assistaiice encourages a lax and im- perfect exercise of the other means which we possess for dis- covering the truth ; and, secondly, it cannot he denied that reliance may be placed with much more safety upon the latter than upon the former alone. It is upon such grounds that I have always had a great dis- trust of the exploring needle. But the microscope seems to me still more apt to mislead ; and I am glad to take this oppor- tunity of protesting against the importance which at present is most unduly attributed to it, as a means of distinguishing morbid growths. After making this statement, it would be useless to quote any experience of my own upon the subject, as the results would be attributed to prejudice or want of prac- tice ; and I will, therefore, select from the numerous mistakes that crowd into my memory, one that lately happened to a surgeon who has written strongly in favour of microscopi- cal examination, who occupies a prominent place in his profes- sion, and who was led to investigate the particular case con- cerned with peculiar care. The patient suflered from a tumour Avhich threatened to prove fatal, and of which a small portion being subjected to the microscope, appeared to present the