PELVIS. 331 continuing after the most powerful and prolonged efforts of expul- sion,—the discharge of fluid matters with great force, as if from a squirt,—the appearance of the solid evacuations in the form of slen- der cylinders of small round masses,—and the admixture of a large quantity of mucus, often bloody, with the feculent excretions. The disease generally manifests itself very insidiously, and before long is usually accompanied with a distended state of the abdomen, which is owing partly to retention of the intestinal contents, and partly to a tympanitic condition induced by the irritation. The desire to empty the bowels becomes at length almost incessant, and the frequent attempts which are made to do so being seldom fol- lowed by any evacuation except of fluids, there is a risk of erro- neously supposing that the patient labours under diarrhoea, and with this view of prescribing astringent, or other kinds of constipating medicines which have a tendency to increase the distension of the intestine. In all cases of doubt, an examination should be made with the finger or a bougie, to ascertain positively whether or no there be a stricture. It Is generally found about two inches or two inches and a half distant from the orifice, but may be situated much higher up; indeed some practitioners allege that they are able to detect constrictions of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The greatest tact and dexterity cannot ensure even a moderate ap- proach to certainty, in exploring the width of a canal so capacious and loosely connected as the upper part of the rectum and the sigmoid flexure of the great intestine, as the coats are extremely apt to be pushed before the point of the bougie, and in different cir- cumstances lead to the belief that there is a stricture when there is none, or that there is no conti'action when it actually exists. It is often erroneously supposed tliat a stricture exists about five or six inches up the gut, owing to the resistance caused by the promon- tory of the sacrum to the introduction of a bougie. The difficulty of obtaining satisfactory evidence as to the existence of stricture in these situations is the less to be regretted, as it is almost always seated within reacli of the finger, which cannot be deceived; and if beyond this extent may be deemed quite irremediable. Unless the patient be relieved, general emaciation is gradually induced by the continual distress, and derangement of the intestinal functions. Hectic irritation follows, and death may be the ultimate effect, either from gradual exhaustion, or from inflammation of the bowels. The progress of the disease is usually very slow, and years may elapse before the symptoms are sufficiently severe to excite atteu-