230 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. liere, however, they may he considered a rare oeeurrence. They generally make their first iippearance in adults. Tlic origin of such bodies luis been ascribed to the effusion and organization of blood and lymph,—to the detachment by fracture of a portion of the articular surface,—and to the separation of morbid growths from the margin of the cartilages of the joints. The last of these explanations is on the whole the most probable, as the bodies in question are often observed by the patient to be fixed be- fore they become moveable, and they have been repeatedly found on tbssection adhering to the extremities of the bones. It may also be observed, that, so far as can be learned by external exami- nation, they do not suffer any change of sliape or size after they are first discovered. These bodies occasion no inconvenience, except when they hap- j)cn to be squeezed between the opposite articular surfaces; they then excite a sudden and severe sickening pain, which forces the j)atient instantly to desist from the exertion in which he was en- gaged, and frequently makes him fall at once to the ground. In consequence of this irritation repeated from time to time, the joint becomes the scat of a dropsical effusion, which is sometimes the first symptom of the disease that attracts the patient’s attention, as he is apt to account for the pain previously suffered by referring it to rheumatism. Unless proper means are now employed, the use of the limb may be almost completely lost. The radical cure is easily effected by cutting into the joint, and extracting the cause of irritation. But this very simple oj)eration is attended with considerable risk of exciting such a degree of in- flammation, as to endanger not only the patient’s limb, but also his life. In order to diminish the danger, as far as possible, the patient should be confined to bed, and restricted to a regulated diet for some days previous to the operation. The cartilage should then be moved into that j)art of the joint which is most superficial, as over the flat surface of the external condyle in the case of the knee, and held steadily there, while a free decided incision is made down upon it, so as to allow of its escape when urged out by the same j)ressure that was employed previously to fix it, and render unnecessary any groping with hooks, forceps, &c. which must in- crease the chance of inflammation. The edges of the wound ought to be placed together, and kept constantly cool with wet cloths; the joint being at the same time protected carefully from motion, and all other kinds of irritation. It lately occurred to me that the