148 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. tending it, never employ a tournicpiet on any occasion. In cases where the tourniquet can be applied without doing harm, it ought to be preferred, as it relieves the assistant from a fatiguing dutj', and prevents the patient from losing so much blood as he is apt to do when the vessels are subjected to manual pressure, if many of them require to be tied, or there is any unsteadiness, either on his part or on that of the assistant The arteries ought to be pidled out with the forceps, (Plate II. Fig. 4,) and tied quite detached from their neigbouring connections. After the principal vessels are se- cured, the tourniquet ought to be entirely removed, to prevent its slackened band trorn exerting such pressime on the veins as may cause them to bleed, and induce the surgeon to tie them instead of arteries. The earlier modes of amputation rendered union by the first in- tention impracticable ; and when the operation had been so far im- proved as to retain the soft parts sufficiently long to meet over the bone, tbc old system of dressing still continued in use, and the ca- vity of the stump was stuffed with lint, as all wounds were in those days healed by the granulating process. Mr Alanson had the merit of exploding tliis practice, and introducing light superficial dressings in its stead, which greatly shortened the cure; and though siugeons on the Continent still interpose dressings between the edges of the stump, union by the first intention is always sought j for in this coimtry. Stitches, if necessary, ought to be employed to ] keep the lips of the wound nearly in their proper position ; and when the bleeding has ceased, strips of adhesive or isinglass plaster may be used to retain them in acciuate contact. The bad consequences of the operation are chiefly hemorrhage, sero-pvuulent effusion into other parts of the body, especially the cavity of the thorax, suppuration of the stump, and exfoliation of the bone. Hemorrbage may appear immediately after the operation, either from arteries which have not been tied, owing to their not sho^slng themselves by bleeding during the state of collapse succeeding the removal of the limb, or from the veins being compressed by too tight a bandage. In the former case, it is necessary to apply as many ligatures as may be requisite,—in the latter, it is sufficient to slacken the bandage. Hemorrhage sometimes commences a fcw| hours after the stump is dressed; and then depends either upon general oozing from the ent siuface, consequent upon the re-actioM of the system, or upon some imperfection in the ligature of the ves-|