58 PlllNCIPLES OF SURGEllY. charge in such eases either by calling it mucous, or by referring it to some solution of continuity out of sight Piunilent discharge fi'om a surface, or a running, as it is gene- rally named, is in the first instance accompanied with symptoms of the inflammatory action which preceded it, particularly heat and redness, which require measures of a soothing kind, such as bleed- ing, pui’ging, warm fomentations, &c. By-and-by these subside, and the discharge alone continues, when the treatment must be al- tered to the use of stimulating and astringent applications, such as metallic washes, ointments, &c. Interstitial Suppuration. When suppuration takes place within the texture of the body, there results a collection of pus, which is named an Abscess. The matter sometimes is diflfused through the interstices of the cellular texture; but more frequently is contained in a circumscribed ca- vity, which is limited by the effusion of lymph, forming a sort of capsule or containing bag. "WHien inflammation terminates in the formation of an abscess the pain loses its intensity, and changes to a tlmobbing sensation. The tension also diminishes, but the swelling does not subside; on the contrary, it rather becomes more prominent; and when pressed upon by the fingers gives the feeling of a fluid contained in a bag, which is called Fluctuation. The particles of a fluid being equally moveable in all directions, when pressure is made at one ])art, an inqmlsc is necessarily communicated over the whole surface; and if the fingers be placed at different points, the extent of the cavity may be iiscerhdned. When the collection of matter is small, or thickly covered, a very nice and practised sense of touch, the tactus eruditus, is requisite for recognizing fluctuation. If the abscess, on the other hand, be very large, simple percussion at one point is suf- ficient to detect it. AVhen the suppuration is extensive, or seated in any inqmrtant region of the body, such as the cavity of the cra- nium or pelvis, its commencement and j)rogress are usually attended with rigors of various degi'ecs and duration. It has been questioned whether or not suppuration may occur Avithout being preceded by inflammation. There can be no doubt that the symptoms of over-action jireviously, are often very slight, and they probably ought not to be regm-ded as essential; but in the great majority of cases, suppuration certainly is a consequence of inflammation.