PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 4b* frost-bite, by the carpenter of a merchant-ship, in which there was no surgeon on hoard. In fine, the healing of an ulger should he re- garded as an action not of effusion or new formation, but of ab- sorption or contraction; and it will he found, on considering the treatment of ulcers, that whatever causes swelling of the part con- cerned imj)edes, wdiile everj tiling productive of an opposite effect tends to hasten the progress of recovery. When an ulcer is examined by dissection, the cellular substance lying under and around its base is found more or less infiltrated and condensed with Ij-mph, hut the granular covering is very thin, being limited to the crust effused in the first instance, and subse- quently organized. The texture under the thin pellicle of the gra- nulations is liable to he distended with blood or serum, which oc- casions a state similar to oedema, and elevates the surface of the ulcer so as to present the appearance which is commonly named proud Jlesh. Morbid nutrition may occur in the same situation, and then growths of various size, form, and appearance spring uj); hut these, so fim from having any share in the process of cure, tend to delay or entirely prevent it. It may be asked, wdiy should not the natural structures be regenerated, if diseased ones are thus formed ? But it should he recollected, that all w'c know of the laws of nature is learned from observation; and mere analog}', in opposition to well-ascertained facts, affords no reason to exj)cct any reproduction of lost parts in the human subject There are other circumstances under which regeneration takes place more readily—that is, when the parts concerned do not communicate w'ith a breach in the sur- face of the body. An interstitial process then goes forw'ards, con- sisting of the effusion and oi-ganization of l}'inph, which frequently forms a substitute, nearly or altogether similar to the original tex- ture. The nerves, tendons, periosteum, hones, and ligaments are thus frequently restored, after suffering more or less extensive de- struction. Treotment of Ulcers tending to heal. So long as the granulating process })roceeds, as has been de- scribed, it requires no local treatment, excejit wdiat is necessmy to ])revent it from being disturbed by external irritation. Great at- tention to cleanliness ought to be observed w'ith regard to the parts surrounding the sore, which should l>e frequently washed, and shaved if there are any hairs upon them. There is no use or propriety in scrubbing the surface of the ulcer itself; as is frccpiently done.