13 INFLAMMATION. (lies from tlie Intense action excited by the prick of a pin. Tlio common expressions of a good and bad constitution are nearly c(^ui- valent to the possession of little or much tendency to suffer irrihi- tion from causes of disturbance; and the difference in this respect, as has been already observed, may either depend upon congenital peculiarity, or be acquired through circumstances connected with tlie mode of life. A most important fact in relation to the effect of irritation is, that it always proves inconsiderable w'hen another which had been j)re- viously In existence, and exciting distiu-bancc, is removed by its means. The success of operations freciuently depends on this prin- ciple, as when amputation is performed on account of a diseased joint, which has kept up excitement for a considerable time without too greatly reducing the patient’s strength. The in(iirect causes of iiritation, or those wdiich act through the medium of the system, constitute a difficult, but very interesting and highly neecssary subject of study. One of the most remark- able chfferences between animals and vegetables is the mutual de- pendence of the (jompouent parts of the former. Though each part is induced to act by particular stimuli, and produces pecidiar effects, the whole are so connected together that one c«m hardly be affected without causing more or less disturbance of others. Some- times the whole system suffers, and then fever results; at other times the consequent disorder is confined to a part merely. This fellow-sriffering, whether partial or general, is usually expressed by the term Sympathy. Various explanations have been offered to account for it, of which the following are most deserving of notice: 1. The anastomosis of Blood-vessels, as that of the epigtistric and mammary arteries, to which has been attributed the tellow-suffer- ing of the uterus and mamma; 2. Continuity of Texture, as that of the conjunctiva, and lining membrane of the nose, to which the sneezing caused by exjmsing the eyes to a bright light has been referred; 3. Nervous Communication, as that between the phrenic and cervical nerves, which has been supposed to account for pain being felt in the shoulder when the liver is inflamed; 4. Tlie Me- dium of Sensation, as when stimulants applied to the nose cause sneezing, though they do not induce this effect during insensibility ; 5. Participation in the same function, as when the breasts become painful in the early months of pregnancy. None of these explana- tibns admit of general application in accounting for sympathy; and many cases of it are not explicable by any of them. But though