431 ERA IN. the edges of the sore, collecting blood or other matters discharg- ed from it, or impeding the application of dressings. If the scalp is detached from the bone in the form of a flap, it ought not to be cut away, as was done previous to the time of l\Ir Pott, who showed the advantage of allowing nature to determine how far the part was rendered incapable of recovery. No inconvenience arises from re- placing tlie flap in the first instance; and, if even a portion only of it should be saved, the cure will be greatly accelei’ated. When sand oi‘ other impurities are lodged in the woiind, it must be care- fully washed; and, if this proves insufficient, a cold poultice may be applied until the surface is freed from all foreign mattei's. All wounds of the scalp, but especially those of a punctured form, are apt to occasion extensive inflammation of the neighbouring integu- ments. It would not be proper, by way of preventing this, to make any incisions in the first instance; but if the bad consequences in question should ensue, free dilatation, together with warm fomen- tations and poultices, ought to be employed without delay, while the general treatment of the patient is conducted so as to conduce to the soothing effect desired. Dijica.ses of the Coverings and Contents of the Cranium. Encysted tumours occur very frequently under the integuments of the scalp. They generally consist of a very thick, firm, almost cai'tilaginous cyst, which contains a mixture of fluid and pultaceous matter. WTien of this kind they are often not single, but exist together in several different parts of the head, particularly the region of the skull-cap. They vary in size from that of a walnut downwards, and unless sidqccted to pressure or rxlcerated, are very loosely connected, so that when a knife is thrust through the integu- ments and cyst in its long direction, the latter may be readily pul- led away witli tlie forceps, or turned out with the handle of the knife. Tumours of this sort are not unfrequently observed to be heredi- tary. More rarely, cysts of a thinner texture, and containing lardy- looking matter, generally intermixed with hairs, are met with in the scalp, chiefly at its lower and back part, near the neck. These adhere more firmly, and require to be dissected out. They often attain a very considerable size. The only disease of the (rontents of the cranium, not depending on external injury, that has ever been subjected to surgical treat- ment, is Hydrocephalus, or a morbid accunudation of fluid. The fluid is generally inclosed in the ventricles, but sometimes lies ex-