495 NOSE. Ulcers and other diseases of the Alee of the Nose. It has already been observed that warty excrescences on the face are apt to degenerate into malignant sores in the advanced period of life. When cancers, originating from this or other sources, are seated over the cartilages of the nose, it is prudent to cut away a portion of the whole thickness of the parietes, as the disease can hardly be extirpated otherwise, and ineffectual attempts would pro- bably promote the diseased pi’ocess. If this operation is performed early, the cut edges may be brought together and united so as to leave no perceptible deformity. The skin of the nose is liable to an over-growth, which at first makes it present a warty or tuberculated appearance, but when more advanced, completely alters its shape, and constitutes large irregular pendulous masses, which occasion great deformity and inconvenience. In cases of this kind, that are so aggravated as to warrant an operation, the redundant substance may be shaved off, while the surgeon, by keeping his finger in the nostril, ascertains the extent to which he shoidd cut. Cold a])plications restrain the bleeding; and when cicatrization is completed, wonderfully little trace of the disease remains. It may aftenvards return and re- quire similar treatment, but the operation is seldom necessary more than once. Lupus, or noli me tangere, is an obstinate ulceration of the nose or adjacent pai'ts, always superficial in the first instance, and gene- rally continuing so, but sometimes extending more deeply and causing extensive destruction of the face. It presents various ap- pearances, but in general has the character of healing at one part while it extends at another. The \dcer is usually covered with a scab, and siurounded with inflamed skin. The disease, though left to itself, sooner or later suffers a sponbineous cure, but seldom until gi’eat deformity is occasioned by its ravages. It occurs chiefly in youth, and affects females more frequently than males. The treatment of this aft’ection is very unsatisfactory, since the mode employed often proves unavailing, or procures merely a tem- porary amendment. The general health, if deranged, ouglit to be restored if possible by an appropriate course of alterative medicine and diet; but it is on local a])plications that the principal reliance is usually placed. Of these, different preparations of arsenic are regarded {is the most efficient. A solution of the white oxide, in the proportion of five or six grains to the ounce, or Fowler’s solu- tion, or a mixture of the white oxide with calomel, or an ointment