MOUTH. 481 of it as far as seems necessary, by pusliing the tongue backwards. When children are late of beginning to articulate, whether this be owing to mental weakness, or any other cause, the relatives are apt to suppose that the frsenum is confining the tongue, and it is necessary to be cautious in acceding to their wish of having it di- vided, as the raninal arteries might be opened by making an inci- sion for this purpose in a natural state of the parts. The tongue is liable to a general enlargement of both a chro- nic and an acute nature. The former is merely an excessive de- gree of the swelling, which, as has been already mentioned, proceeds from the constitutional effect of mercury, and is to be remedied by the same means. The latter, or acute form of the disease, is very rare. It possesses an inflammatory character, and not only occa- sions great inconvenience by impeding deglutition and articulation, but has even proved fatal by causing suffocation. The most ef- fectual remedy consists in making two or three deep longitudinal incisions into the upper surface of the distended organ. Relief is thus very speedily obtained, but if it should not be so, soon enough to protect the patient from the risk of suffocation, tracheotomy ought to be performed without delay. In cases of less urgency, leeches and fomentations applied to the throat prove sufficient Tonsils. The morbid conditions to which the tonsils are chiefly subject, are inflammation, suppuration, ulceration, and chronic enlarge- ment Inflammation of the tonsils constitutes the most common kind of sore throat, Cijnanche Tonsillaris. It is induced by exposure to cold,—is recognized by pain and swelling in tbe region of tbe glands, particularly observable during deglutition,—and is remedied by general or local bleeding, ciitbartics, and, after the intensity of the symptoms has been subdued, counter-irritation. Wbon suppuration takes place, the matter is not confined to the gland, but extends into the surrounding cellular substance, and forms a large difiused tumour of the fauces, which depresses the palate, renders swallowing almost impossible, and sometimes interferes with respiration also. If the disease be allowed to fol- low its own course, evacuation of tbe matter is accomplished sooner or later by tbe natural process ; but, in order to b.asten the patient’s relief, and prevent the risk of suffocation that might attend the fluid escaping into the throat, wliile the patient is not prepared for