69 DISEASED NUTIUTION. adhesions occur between them; it is generally of a more irregular fi- gure tlian would be supposed from its appeai’ance while covered by the integuments, and frequently sends out long processes in various di- rections. The skin covering such tumours is not discoloured, but usually shows some inequalities of simface, corresponding with the lo- bules of the growth. The adipose sai’coma occurs in every part of the body, and at all periods of life, but is most frequently met with under tlie integuments of the trunk in yoimg females, and middle-aged people of both sexes. There is frequently more than one tumour in the same person. It tends to increase according to the principles al- ready explained, and occasionally attains a monstrous size, so as to weigh ten, fourteen, or even twenty-seven pounds, which was the weight of one removed from the parietes of the abdomen by Sir A. Cooper.* It generally occasions no inconvenience except what is caused by its bulk, but sometimes becomes the seat of uneasy sen- sations, and weakens, in some way not yet explained, the voluntary action of the neighbouring muscles. It is not prone to any morbid . action or degeneration, but has in some cases been foxmd altered in this way. In ti-eating adipose sarcoma, it is found that the means which promote absorption have little or no effect, and that excision is the I only mode of affording the patient relief, unless the tumour happens I to have a very narrow neck, when the ligature may be employed, 1 but not so advantageously as the knife, since the root or part seat- «ed under the^kin necessarily remains, and is apt to prove the i source of a future growth. The capsule which surrmmds the {growth hardly adheres to it, except in the circumstance above- I mentioned of having been subjected to pressure, so that the dissection is extremely easy and readily performed. The incision should be made freely down to the substance of the tumoiu', which is then to be drawn outwanls and detached from the cellular connections by re- peated applications of the knife directed upon its surface. The fin- ger like processes, often sent out on different sides, must be carefully disengaged in the same way'from the sort of sheaths, in winch they [1 lie, by alternately gently pulling and slightly scarifying them. Cystic Sarcoma. Tumours ai*e occasionally met with, which, when divided, exhi- i bit a cellular structure, the compartments being extremely variable i in their relative as well as absolute size, and in the nature of their !' contents. Sometimes they are perfectly fluid, at other times viscid • Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. xi.