PRINCIPLES or SURGERY. 24 tion ; but the simple and efficient contrivance of Read’s syringe has superseded all the others. Diaphoretics.—These are remedies wliich, in the effect they pro- duce, bear the same relation to the skin that pimgatives do to the mucous membrane of the intestines. They increase the action of the skin, and are thus beneficial either in the way of metastasis, or in removing the cause of the inflammation, by restoring a secretion which has been suppressed. The salts of ammonia have a diaphoretic effect; but, being of a stimulating nature, are questionable remedies for subduing excited action of the system. The Aqua Acetatis Ammoniae, however, may be given with much advantage in small doses, from time to time, after the force of the disease has been broken by other means. Ipecacuan is less objectionable in this respect, and the combina- tion of it with opium, constituting Dover’s powder, is often extreme- ly useful. By far the best diaphoretic, however, for subduing in- flammatory action, is the tartrate of antimony, given in small and frequently repeated doses, so as to maintain a slight nausea, or even occasional vomiting. The warm bath is a powerful diaphore- tic, and would often be very advantageous if it could be procured; but the difficulties which usually attend its employment in private practice are so great as almost to proscribe it. The vapour-bath is more readily administered, and may perhaps come into general use. All the apparatus required is a piece of lead or tin tube three or four feet in length, a tea kettle, and a blanket The patient sits on a stool near the fire and covered with the blanket The tube is attached to the spout of the kettle by one extremity, and has the other placed under the stool. The heat may be ascertmned by a thermometer, and regulated by the degree of ebullition. Much be- nefit is frequently derived from the semi-cupimn or hip-bath, and the pediluvimn or foot-bath; and still more local baths are of great service in the form of Fomentations and Poultices. Fomentation is generally effected by appl}dng a piece of flannel or a sponge wrung out of hot wter, and changing this from time to time as it cools, for the space of fifteen or twenty minutes. A flannel bag containing chamomile flowers, and allowed to cool sufficiently after being boiled a short while, is preferred by many for the pimpose; and a decoction of po}>py heads also is occasionally employed. Poultices may l)e prepared from any substance, winch, together with warm water or milk, constitutes a soft pulj)y nuiss, ca{)able of