150NKS. 16a The time vo(juired for this process varies with the size of the hone, being performed most quickly when it is smallest, and vica versa. The shaft of one of the large bones, such as the femur or tibia, generally acquires rigidity in the course of four or five weeks, but does not regain sufficient strength for supporting the body or perfonning locomotion until several weeks afterwards ; and, so far as can be judged from the opportunities of observation occasional- ly afforded, is not completely ossified at the fractured part before the lapse of several months. The bone here represented had been fractured six weeks before the patient’s death from another cause, and externally appeai'ed quite reunited, the interstices being filled with a soft friable substance. The age, constitution, and peculiar circumstances of the patient also cause3'ariations in the period of cure. It is most speedy in youth and health. In preg- nancy it is performed in general with less energy than usual. Rest of the limb promotes it, and motion not only retards, but if consider- able or long-continued, altogether prevents it; in which case the substance that ought to have formed the callus acquires the appearance and ]>roperties of ligament, so as to render the limb flexible, and constitute what is called an artifi- cial joint, the different kinds and treatment of which will be more ))articularly considered afterwards. In treating fractures, it is of great consequence to set or replace the extremities of the bone as soon as possible after the injury^is sushxined, in order to prevent the bad effects of their continued ir- ritation, to effect the adjustment before it is impeded by swelling of the limb or thickening of the parts which surround the bones, and to avoid disturbing the process of reunion by altering the po- sition of the broken surfaces at a later period. When swelling and tension are actually present, it is sometimes thought proper to delay the setting until these sym])toms are subdued by leeches and fomentations; but as such means can have little effect while the cause of irritation continues in operation, it is always better to re- duce the bones into their proper situation as soon jis possible, and then keep the limb steady by means of splints. The best material for splints is thick pastcboai’d or bend leathci’, of which the pieces