PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 310’ ture, however small is made, fluid, if any is contained in the cavity, escapes, and the smooth shining simfece of the contained viscera is readily recognized. While the forceps still retain their hold of the membrane, a blunt-pointed curved bistoury (Plate I. Fig. 5.) should be introduced and carried to the requisite extent, with the addi- tional protection of the operator’s linger interposed between it and the intestine. After the protruded viscera have been exposed, the next step of the operation is to divide the stricture. Tliis might be done in any direction, were it not that the epigastric artery and spermatic cord, lying in the neighbourhood of the neck of the sac, limit the choice within more narrow bounds. A^’'hen the hernia protrudes through the internal opening of the canal, it is seated anteriorly to the cord, and has the epigastric artery on the ])ubic side of its neck. In cases of old standing, where the tumour attains a large size, the sperma- tic vessels are sometimes separated from each other, and found on the lateral, or even anterior part of the sac. In such cases, too, the obliqiiity of the canal becomes much diminished, and it is often at length impossible to tell, by external examination, whether the hernia is external or internal; in other words, whether it has pas- sed through the whole course of the canal, or escaped directly through the external ring. A\’^hen it is of the latter or ventro-in- guinal kind, the cord lies on the iliac side of its neck, behind which it crosses obliquely downwards, and the epigastric artery is also on the same side running upwards and inwards. It appears, therefore, that if the stricture were divided by cutting towards the pubis, the epigastric would be endangered in the former case; and that, if the knife were carried outwards, it would in the latter subject both the epigastric artery and the cord to the risk of injury. As it is often difficult, and sometimes impossible, to ascertain positively, either from the examination of the tumour, or from its previous history, whether the vessels are situated on its iliac or piibic side, the safest })lan is to cut always iqiwards, in which direction there can never be any risk incurred. The simple })robe-pointed bistoury, which has been em])loycd for the })reliminary ])art of the operation, is the most safe and efficient instrument for dividing the stricture. The surgeon should introduce the fore-finger of his right or left hand, according to circumstances, between the sac and viscera as high as he can, and then, feeling the stricture with its point, carry up the knife with its side turned towards the finger, until it is insi- nuated between the intestine or omentum and the sac; when turning