PRIXCiri.ES OF SURGERY. S26 itself; and, lastb/, there is the chance of returning the intestine in a state impi-oper for reduction, or of being foiled in doing so from adhesions or other morbid changes, reqmring free inspection, and the use of the knife for their removal. Umbilical Hernia. Children are sometimes born with a malformation of the abdo- minal parietes, which exposes the peritoneum of the epigastric re- gion to view, and allows the viscera to ])rotrude, notwithstanding any ])ressiu*e that may be employed to prevent them from doing so. Such imperfectly formed beings generally die soon after birth; .and if they survive, must labour permanently under the inconve- nience which attends the unprotected condition and disj)laceraent of their bowels; all that art can do being to afford some mecha- nical support, where the parietes of the abdomen are defective, by means of a firm case of leather or other suitable material. But, independently of this defective structure, the viscera may be pro- truded through the mnbilical aperture, or passage for the vessels of the foetus, the thin skin which is formed after the separation of the cord being distended by the sac of peritoneum. Such an oc- currence can take place only within a short period after birth, since the umbilical O})oning subsequently becomes obliterated, and occuj)ied by a firm unyielding cicatrix. Hernia occasionally ap- pears in the adult near the umbilicus; but then it is always situ- ated in a preternatural aperture, and is said to be Ventral. True umbilical hernia in the adult is always congenital. In the ti’eatment of this species of hernia, it is of great conse- quence that reduction should be effected and maintained while the aperture still retains its disposition to become obliterated, so that a radical cure may be eflTected, and the patient saved from the ne- cessity of wearing a bandage permanently. In children where there is no malformation, and merely a relaxation of the umbilical opening, this may in general be easily accomplished, by returning the protrudeil viscera, then placing a conical shaped compress, such as a nutmeg enveloped \vith lint, on the opening through which they passed, and, lastly, affording sufficient pressure by ap- j)lying cross straps of adhesive plaster. This attains the object better than a circular bandage, which necessarily compresses the general cavity of the abdomen, and thus, though it counteracts the predisposition by strengthening the parietes, tends to excite the disease. In the slight degree of this complaint, usually met with