218 rilINCIPLES OF SURGERY. direction of the extending force, which is not opposed to the action of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, as it is when the limb is drawn outwards at a right angle to the chest In every case which proves difficult, or is expected to be so, from the duration of the dis- placement, extension should be made downwards, or in the longitu- dinal direction of the body, either by pulling with the heel in the ax- illa, or by employing the strength of assistants, aided, if necessary, by the pulley, to draw the arm in this direction, while counter-ex- tension is effected by a cushion secured in the axilla by a strap pas- sing round the shoulders, and secured to a wall or other firm sup- port In this way dislocations of several weeks standing may be readily reduced ; and even at the end of six or seven, success need not be despaired of; but, beyond this period, notwithstanding oc- casional instances of success, the case in general must be regarded nearly hopeless. In dislocation of the humerus forwards, the head of the bone lies on the sternal side of the coracoid process, a position into which it can get only by suffering a secondary displacement after hav- ing been forced downwards. The muscles then draw it upwards and inwards, and continuing to do this after the accident, at last elevate it as far as the clavicle allows. In this case the limb is rather shortened. The elbow is bent and in the state of abduction, owing to the position of the head of the humerus, and, from the same cause, there is less numbness and swelling of the limb. There is not so much perceptible depression under the acromion, and the axilla is not so completely occupied as w'hen it contains the head of the bone. As might be expected from the negative character of these symptoms, the diagnosis is not so easy as that of dislocation downwards; and hence practitioners who are not sufficiently careful frequently overlook the nature of the accident. The reduction should be performed as in the former case; but it is here still more advantageous to extend downwards, in order to dislodge the bone from the position into which it is drawn by the muscles. Dislocation of the humerus backwards or outwards is very rare. In the few cases of it which have been observed, the head of the bone lay between the scapiila and infra-spinatus muscles, below the spine, so as to cause a distinct external swelling in this situation, and a deficiency at the fore part of the shoulder. The arm was di- rected forwards across the chest, and could not be moved into any