THROAT. 26*9 conse(}ucutly, there is ample space below for making an opening to admit the air. M. Bayle’s judicious observation, however, ought not to be forgotten, that if the operation is delayed until the disease has advanced so far as to occasion repeated threatenings of suffo- ■ cation, it will hardly prove successful, owing to the excessive se- cretion of mucus which is induced by the continued irritation and dyspnoja. As soon, therefore, as the nature of the patient’s com- plaint is distinctly ascertained, he ought to be impressed with the propriety and necessity of having the aperture made without loss of time. Ulceration of the larynx does not often impede respi- . ration, though it deprives the patient of his voice, and occasions many other distressing symptoms. But sometimes the breathing in such cases suddenly becomes extremely difficult, and the danger of instant dissolution demands surgical interference, though there may not be the slightest prospect of permanent recovery, or of any advantage more than a few weeks, or even days, longer existence. The operation may be performed anywhere between the thyroid cai'tilage and sternum; but convenience and safety limit the choice more narrowly. The space between the thyroid and crieoid car- tilages, though covered- with little besides the integuments, and so far favourable for the purpose, is objectionable in general on the gi’ound of its proximity to the disease, and alwiiys on account of the difficulty which has been experienced in obtaining here a suffi- ciently large apertime without encroaching on the cartilages of the larynx. In opening the trachea near the sternum, the depth of the tube, which retreats backwards as it descends,—the presence of the thyroid veins in the line of incision, or even occasionally of the ihyroidea ima artery,—and the transverse portion or isthmus of the thyroid gland, which often, especially in females and chil- dren, leaves hardly any accessible space’ below its inferior margin, are obstacles of no inconsiderable importance. The most conve- nient situation, when accessible, seems to be immediately below the isthmus of the thyroid. A sufficient portion of the trachea is here often left uncovered, and what more room is required may bo gained by turning up or dividing a little of the glanduhir substance. In cases where there is not room for this mode of proceeding, the opening should be made immediately below the ericoid cartilage, and it it is necessary to cut through the isthmus, the bleeding from t should be allowed to cease before the trachea is opened. In performing the operation, there are re(juired a scalpel, a oouple bf hooks, sponge, and tube of the shape shown ih Plate III.