52 PRINCiri-ES OF SURGERY. pain, the dressing may be soaked with cold water. Unless the dis- charge is profuse, the sore need not be dressed oftener than once in two days. Under this ti’eatment the swelling of the limb sub- sides,—the callous edges speedily disappear,—the siurface of the ulcer granulates, discharges a purulent secretion, and cicatrizes as an ordinary healing sore. The good effects of this treatment ai*e usually ascribed to its stimulating the actions, which are supposed to l)c in an indolent state, and thus exciting a healing action in the sore. But the true explanation probably is, that it allows the heal- ing action to proceed, by inducing an absoi’])tion of the swelling which occupies the limb, and which, though of secondary^ origin, in- asmuch as it proceeds from the continued irritation of the ulcer, when once esbiblished, must oppose the contraction requisite for the process of cicatrization. I have accordingly found that the application of a large blister, covering the sore and a considerable part of the limb, greatly has- tens the cure, and frequently proves sufficient for its completion, without the use of any other means than moist dressings applied af- terwards. The immediate effect of this practice is removal of the swelling—the thick callous edges disappear,—the surface of the ul- cer comes to be on a level Avith the surrounding skin—gramdates, and cicatrizes. In favour of tliis treatment I may mention, that it is more speedy and lasting in its effects than the strapping pro- cess—and much more economical, wliich is a point of great impor- tance in treating the poor people who usually suffer from the dis- ease—since the exj)ense of strapping and bandaging their limbs very often prevents the treatment from being imdertaken.* Ulcers prevented from healing by Excess of Action. These ulcers have an angry or irritable look, owing to redness of their own surface and that of the simroimding skin. In general they are deep, of a browmish-red coloiu*, and show no gi'anulations —they are irregular in shape—their edges are abrupt and usually ragged—their discharge is thin, serous, and often tingetl with blood. Sometimes they are sxiperficial—of a regular circuUu* form—and exhibit no redness except a bright line at their margin. The pjiin attending them is almost always acute. They fonn no cicatrix so long as they retain the irritable characters. Irritable or over-act- ing idcers are met with in fidl over-fed subjects, ■who jjosscss strong • Second Report of the Edinburgh Surgical Ho«j)ital—Med. and Siirg. Journal, No. 102.