THORAX. 281 the wound of the tlioracic parietes heals, and then the air which Imd been admitted into tlic cavity of the pleura is absorbed, so that tlie lung is forced to expand, and performs its function as before the injury. In conducting the treatment of a simple penetrating wound, it shoidd be recollected, tliat the danger consequent upon the injury proceeds from infhimmation of the pleura, caused by the wound? or by o})pression of the sound lung. The practice thus suggested consists in protecting the patient from all sources of bodily and mental agitation, and diminishing the quantity of blood in the sys- tem so as to lighten the labour of the weakened organ. AVith these views, the thorax should be simrounded with a broad bandage, —the horizontal posture, and strict antiphlogistic regimen, shoidd be enjoined,—and blood should be taken from the arm in quantity proportioned to the strength of the patient, but so largely as to re- lieve, if not remove altogether the sense of oppression which is felt about the breast, after which antimonials and opiates must be dili- gently employed to moderate the force of the circulation, supersede the necessity of farther depletion, and lessen the risk of excessive reaction from what has been already employed. AA^hen a wound of the thorax not only penetrates the cavity, but also extends into the substance of the lung, the consequences ai*e still more important, since, in addition to those that occur in the fonner case, there are the dangers which attend hemorrhage into the cavity of the pleura, and into the bronchial tubes of the sound lung. The injury is generally recognized by bloody expectoration, and a discharge of blood or bloody froth from the wound. But it must be recollected, that, though neither of these indications be ob- servable, a wound of the lung may exist, and even be productive of a copious bleeding into the cavity of the chest The same objects of treatment exist here as in the case of a simple penetrating wound, but should lead to a practice still more decided and careful, as the danger must always be regarded as more serious. The circumstance of internal hemorrhage demands additional consideration, and has afforded fruitful subject of dis- cussion in respect to the mode of preventing and remedying it, and also as to the diagnostic marks of its presence. Some recommend the external wound to be closed immediately, in order to retain the blood, and limit the extent of its effusion by effecting pressure on the breach of the lung. It is true that the fluid thus accumu- lated may be removed by subseipicnt absorption, without causing