244 PIlINCirLES OF SURGERY. tlie principal portion liere represented was removed, some small pieces were found ly- ing in the cavity, which proved to be frag- ments of the dense plate that had formed the convex surface of the hccul of the hone. The glenoid cavity of the scapula was di- vested of cartilage, but covered with a smooth firm velvet-like lining of granulation. Kc- covery was delayed by unhealthy action of tJie sore, which assumed a phagedenic, and afterwards a sloughing character, but was so far completed on the 7 th of September that the boy returned home with an arm not perceptibly shortened, and, though still stiff at the slioulder, nearly as useful as evet. I saw' the patient lately, grown up to be a strong active man. In 1826, I operated on a shoulder-joint which had been disetised for ujjwards of seven years, and had reduced the patient, a female between 30 and 40 years of age, to the greatest degree of exhaustion. The head of the humerus w'as completely excavat- ed and carious, and presented a most fa- vourable opportunity for excision. Reco- very was soon comj)leted, and for many years afterwards, until she died of some other complaint, the poor w'oman was en- abled to lead an active industrious life, w'ith the full use of her arm for all ordi- nary employments. The success of this case rendered me sanguine for the future; but I regret to say that results so satisfactory bear a small propor- tion to those in which, from extensive affection of the saipula, the operation proves abortive ; and wliercver there is ground for sus- pecting the existence of this obstacle, from the situation of sinuses, or the information obtiiincd by probing, amputation ought to be })referred. Elbow-Joint.—The best mode of performing the excision of the elbow-joint is that which was originally contrived and practised by Moreau. The patient shoidd lie with his face downwards, so as to ^ present the ])osterior surface of the joint. The surgeon using the same kind of knife which was recommended for the former opera-: