J3 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. cumstance that seems deserving of attention. So far as pos- sible I let you see the people who are to he under treatment at the time of their admission, so that they may be pre- sented just as they will be to yourselves when engaged in prac- tice ; and also, that you may witness the process of investiga- tion which is pursued, in the first instance, for the recognition of their respective ailments. In the progi'ess of treatment, I bring them again and again into this place (the great theatre of the hospital), so that the changes which have occurred may be duly explained. On alternate days I visit the wards, when you have an opportunity of seeing the patients more closely, and obtaining further information directly from themselves. On the two remaining days of each week (Sunday being a day of rest), the operations of too great importance for extempo- raneous execution are performed. There is thus a constant system of instruction ; and it is pursued, I am happy to say, not only with much advantage to you, but also with great satis- faction to the patients, who so far from feeling any unwilling- ness to have their cases examined in your presence, regard it as a guarantee for their careful treatment, and an expression of interest in their welfai'e. In pointing out to you the distinctive characters of disease, I shall be careful to avoid perjdexing you with irrelevant mat- ter, as would seem too frequently done, if any judgment as to the practice of other schools may be formed from the lucubra- tions with which, under the title of “ Clinical Lectures,” the periodical medical press has of late years been teeming. When we see pages upon pages of closely printed statements, as to every minute circumstance that can be noted in the patient’s organization, however remotely connected with the particular derangement in question, doubts may be entertained as to their ever having been delivered to a waking audience, but none as to their utter uselessness for accomplishing the object professedly in view. In describing any particular sort of stone, plant, or animal, wo do not mention all the characters which it possesses in common with other members of the same family, but carefully select those points in which it differs from them ; and you may recollect that Linnajus laid it down as a rule, in describing the species of plants, that no more than twelve words should ever be employed for the purpose. Indeed, it may be truly said, that, next to not observing the symptoms