17 USE OF CIILOROFOHM IN SURGEUY. The cliloi'oform must, of course, be of good quality—such as that manufactured by Messrs. Duncan and Dlockhart of this city —and should be administered, as originally advised by DnSimj)- son, through means of a folded handkerchief held loosely over the patient’s nose and mouth. The inhalation is apt, in the first instance, to cause a spasmodic closure of the glottis ; and when this is denoted by cessation of breathing, thehandkerchiefsliould be held aside until at least one inspiration is accomplished. Chil- dren and young females frequently pass at once into the state of profound sleep desired; but adults, especially of the male sex, usually become much excited, so as to talk wildly, inco- herently, and inarticulately, and resist inhaling the chloroform by muscular efforts of the most energetic character, before falling into the condition of complete immobility and insen- sibilit}'. The congested countenance and convulsive contor- tions of the limbs on such occasions are apt to deter from completion of the process, but should rather suggest a more copious administration of the agent, until perfect fiaccidity of the muscles and the stertorous sound of respiration, proclaim that its effect has been fully attained. The handkerchief should then be withdrawn and reapplied occasionally so as to maintain the state of insensibility until the object of its induc- tion is accomplished. However trifling this may bo, the patient should always be placed in the horizontal posture, since syncope dependent upon temporary cessation of the action of the heart, wliich occasionally occurs, would be dangerous in the sitting or erect position of the body, and may probably have led to some of the fatal effects recorded, especially as most of these have occurred in cases of trivial importance, which of themselves would not have suggested the horizontal positioir. Ligatures on the throat, and tight articles of dress on the thorax, should always bo removed ; and if at any time the breathing is observed to become slow or cease altogether, respiration should bo artificially excited by alternate compres- sion and relaxation of the ribs, while fresh air is more fi'oely admitted into the room, and cold water is thrown upon the face of the patient. It is seldom that such expedients are required, but the possibility of their being needed, should always be kept in mind to prevent any risk of tliose fatal issues which, it is believed, never have occurred under pro])cr managenient. As to the cases in which chloroform should be emploved.