340 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. immediate aa well as permanent The disease is best treated, how- ever, when in its ordinary state and free from inflammation. It is then easy to ascertain the exact extent of hemorrhoidal swelling concerned, and employ the requisite measiu’es. In every case the whole of the internal piles should be removed by ligatures, and after they have been tied, any of the external kind that appear are to be carefully cut away, together with the loose redundant integu- ment surrounding the orifice of the gut. In all operations at this part, it should be a rule never to leave any hemorrhoidal growth either external or internal, since the portion permitted to remain will be almost sure to Inflame and prove troublesome. The tumour that is formed by prolapsus of the whole thickness of the intestine, whether occurring in children or adults, is in ge- neral very readily reduced by slight pressure, provided the expid- sive eftbrts have ccasetf, and the patient assumes the horizontal pos- ture. Occasionally, however, from the jiarts being allowed to re- main for hours, or even days protruded, the intestinal coats become greatly thickened, consequently increasing the size of the swelling, and rendering replacement of the gut more difficult A manipu- lation, similar to that of the taxis, must then be carefully employ- ed, after the surface of the tumour has been lubricated witli oil. The neck, or part next the anus, is steadily compressed with the fingers, and then pushed upwards through the ring which is fonned by the sphincter. Successive portions arc to be returned in the same way, until the remaining portion is so small as to admit of being pushed up at once. Fistula in Ann. Abscesses frequently form in the neighbourhood of the anus, and, owing to the laxity of the cellular and adipose textures in this situation, are apt to diflFuse their contents extensively up along the gut, and into the hip or perineum. Wlicn evacuation is allowed to take place naturally by ulcerative absorption, the opening is generally external; but sometimes it is formed through the gut, and not unfrcqucntly there is both an external and internal aper- ture, the formation of the latter being usually secondary to that of the former. After the matter is discharged, the cavity of the ab- scess rarely, or ratiier never, heals spontiineously, but remains, contracted in its capacity, and thickened in its parictes, constituting a sinus which is named Fistula in Ano. The fistula is Siiid to be Blind External, Blind Internal, or Complete, accordingly as it has