78 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. child should be carefully nursed, wannly clothed, and supplied with a moderate allowance of wholesome noiu’ishing food. If ne- cessary, mild means should be used to correct derangement of the intestinal secretions, but nothing is more injurious than to keep up incessant irritation of the canal by frequently administering pim- gative medicines, the necessity for which may almost always be ad- vantageously superseded by proper regulation of the diet and ex- ercise. Should the indications which have been mentioned, or the parentage of the patient, lead to the persuasion that the disposition to the ebsease is very strong, the place of residence, if cold and moist, ought, if possible, to be changed for one that is dry and w'arm. When the scrofulous depositions are actually formed, the great- est care must be used to gtiard against the operation of all direct and indirect irritations, which might tend to excite their inflamma- tion or suppuration. The means ])roper for this purpose depend on the part of the body affected, and will be explained hereafter; but on all occasions it is right to attend to the climate, the regimen, and the secretions of the patient Of local applications, iodine seems to have most power in causing absorption of scrofulous tu- mours. Blisters, muriate of ammonia, camphorated mercurial oint- ment, pressure, and sea-bathing, ai’C also very usefid in conducing to the same effect But it should be carefully recollected, that the exciting influence through which they prove beneficial, if not duly regulated, may occasion inflammation and suppimation. When the abscess is seated in a part of the body exposed to view, as the neck, it becomes important to determine what mode of treatment will render the resulting cicatrix least observable. Sir A. Cooper strongly recommends a small puncture to be made with a lancet so soon as any matter is formed, and that then the-remaining scrofu- lous substance should be squeezed out. The result of many trials leads me to conclude, that it is seldom if ever possible in this way to effect evacuation completely. And what seems to be the safest practice, is to let the matter be Very fully formed before opening the abscess, when a free incision shoidd be made; or to abstain from evacuation altogether, and trust to absorption. If this shoidd not take jdace, a spontaneous aperture will occur, and may be en- lar'J'ed if necessary. Various drugs are used empirically under the specious pretext of producing a gradual improvement on the pa- tient’s constitution. The muriate of lime is one of the^; and there are i)eople weak enough to believe the assertion, that it some-