AllDOMEN. 317 its edge upwards, he raises the handle gently hut steadily, and re- peats this process until he perceives that there is a free passage for his finger into the abdomen. The third step of the operation consists in the management'of the protruded viscera. If the hernia is recent, and inflammation has not been excited, the intestine and omentum present nearly their usual appearance, except that the former is more or less thick- ened in its coats, and has a dark, purple, or brownish colour. In such circumstances, the gut should be returned first by gentle pres- sure, similar to that employed in the taxis, and then the omentum. If effusion of lymph has taken place on the surface of the intestine in consequence of inflammation, the reduction may be performed as in the former case, but, of course, with a less favourable prognosis. If old adhesions, existing between the surfaces of the intestine, or between them and the sac, oppose reduction, they ought to be di- vided when this is practicable, and when it is not, the parts must be left to themselves; the integuments being brought together, or simply covered by a pledget of ointment It might be expected that more of the intestines would tluis be permitted to escape, but it is found that when the stricture has been freely divided,—the functions of the bowels restored,—and the patient confined to the horizontal posture, the protrusion gradually diminishes, and finally withdraws itself into the abdomen. The same practice is proper when the caput ccecuin has descended. Should the omentum be so thickened and indurated as not to permit reduction, it may be cut away as far as is necessary, any vessels that require ligatures being tied. But from what has fallen within my own observation, I am quite sure that it is better either to return the omentum, if possible, or to leave it still remaining in the sac, than to practice excision of the indurated portion, since there is thus incurred a risk of several bad consequences. In the first place, whether from the wound alone or the ligatures, which are frequently required in considerable numbers, inflammation is apt to be excited; and second- ly, that most troublesome and dangerous occurrence, ulceration of the intestine, is apt to happen, probably from the bowel adhering to the wounded part of the omentum, and losing the protection of its serous covering, which is slow to undergo the idcerative process. Liistly, when the intestine is discovered by its soft consistence and fetid odour to be in a mortified state, any attempt at reduction would be highly imprudent, since the patient’s only chance of cscupe from the fatal effusion of its contents into the abdominal cayity, depends