MOUTH. 487 insured a return of the disease. The great improvement has been introduced into modern surgei’y of amputating the jaws when they become the seat of these formations, at the articulation, or at all events in a part of their extent which is perfectly free from en- largement, or any other indication of unhealthy action. The names of Grate of Berlin, Dupuytren of Paris, Mott of New York,. Crarapton and Cusack of Dublin, and Gensoul of Lyons, are most deserving of mention for adopting and establishing this operation. It has been performed with almost uniform success in cases of the fibro-cartilaginous tumour both of the upper and the lower jaw, and also, on account of the medullary growth. From the nature of the bones entering into the formation of the upper jaw, complete eradication is practicable only when the disease is confined to the superior maxillary bone. Growths from the forehead and bones of the nose must be carefully distinguished from those that possess this limited origin, as no satisfactory result would attend their re- moval. In the case here represented the patient was urged to per- mit an operation, but fortunately declined to do so, since on dis- section the disease was found to extend inwards, so as to occupy very nearly the whole space belonging to the anterior lobes of the brain. In performing excision of the superior maxillary bone, two in- cisions should be made through the cheek, one extending from the inner angle of the eye directly downwards to the lip, the other beginning over the junction of the maxillary and malar bones, and terminating at the angle of the mouth. The triangular flap thus formed is to be dissected from the tumour, and the margin of the orbit exposed. One blade of a large pair of cutting pliers is then introduced into the nose, and the other .into the orbit, so as to di- vide the nasal process of the maxillary bone. The connection with the malar bone is next separated in the saTim way, and then the palate, previous to which one of the incisor teeth must be cXt- tracted if necessary. The surgeon having now deprived the bone of all its principal attachments, wrenches it out either with liis hands or strong forceps. There is seldom much bleeding, but the patient should be seated during the operation, to prevent any risk of suftbeation. No advantage is obtained by tying the carotid pre- viously, and if it is desired to save the blood as much as })0ssible, an incision ought to bo made through the integuments between the nock of the jaw and the mastoid process, to enable the assistant to compress the internal maxillai'y artery, or the common trunk of it