PELVIS. 381 can suffer the accumulation of more fluid without being injured in its contractile power. When, however, the limit of healthy expan- sion is at length exceeded, the same effect is induced as when the male bladder is concerned, and the patient labours under a com- plete retention, and requires for her relief that the catheter should be introduced. The instrument employed for this purpose is made of silver, about sLx inches long, very slightly curved, and a quarter of an inch wide. The patient lies in bed on her back with the thighs drawn up; and the operation ought to be performed under the clothes. The fore-finger of the right or left hand, according to the position of the patient, is introduced between the labia minora, and carried upwards to their junction, a little below which the ori- fice of the urethra is situated, and where it is readily recognized by the feeling of a depression, with a little elevation beliind or nearer the vagina. The finger being retained here, the point of the catheter is by its means properly directed, and may then be easily pushed into the bladder. The mouth of the tube may be closed by applying the thumb over it, until a receptacle is provid- ed for the urine,—or a bladder may be tied to it so as to secure the fluid, without any risk of allowing its being spilt upon the clothes. If the catheter has a stop-cock upon it this will be ma- naged still more conveniently, but the instrument is thus rendered rather too complicated for its easy introduction. When the uterus is distended, and more especially when its con- tents descend low in the pelvis during j)arturition, the urethra is liable to such compression and displacement, as frequently induce retention of urine. In such circumstances, it is not always practi- cable to introduce the common female catheter, and one either flexible, or, if rigid, curved like that for the male urethra is re- quired. The difficulty is still greater when the retention depends upon retroversion of the uterus. Tliis displacement consists in a turning back of the fundus of the uterus, and its being bent down between the vagina and rectum. It very rarely occurs in the un- iinpregnated state, though it is said to have been met with in vir- gins, and is most apt to happen between the third and fourth months of pregnancy, in consequence of some sudden motion of the trunk, as in leaping or dancing. A consideration of the relative situation and connection of the os uteri and urethra will render it obvious that the effect of such a retroversion on the latter must be a great extension of it upwards and forwards; withdrawing the orifice from its usual situation ; impeding the discharge of the urine, and ren-