ABDOMEN. 321 ternal oblique) which is attached to the tuberosity and crest of the pubis, and also with the superficial fascia of the abdomen, together with the fascia lata of the thigh. On the iliac side of tliis crescen- tic margin, with the interposition of some loose cellular substance and fat, the vessels lie, resting on the fascia iliaca which here be- comes attached to the bone, and covered by the union of the three abdominal fasciae, which form a bridge over them that has been named the crural arch. Between the vessels and spinous process . the iliac and transversalis fascice again unite, and allow the iliacus interims, together 'with the psoas magnus muscle, to pass under them to the trochanter minor. The fasciae are here closely connect- ed with the vessels, or rather with their sheath of dense cellular sub- stance, in which they insensibly lose themselves when traced by dissection. The vessels are now, properly speaking, in the thigh, and become covered with the fascia lata, M'hich has an oval aper- ture in it on their pubal side, immediately below Poupart’s liga- ment, through which the vena saphena finds access to the femoral trunk. The fascia lata, at the margin of this apertm'c, loses itself on the sheath of the vessels. On their pubal side it passes up, rest- ing on the pectineus muscle, and becomes continuous with the iliac fascia, and on the iliac side, while uniting directly with the ab- dominal and pelvic fasciae, it sends a falciform process inwards over the vessels to the pubis, so as thus to enter into the formation of the crural arch throughout its whole extent It thus appears that the femoral is separated from the inguinal canal, merely by the fascia transversalis and reflected margin of the tendinous fascia (tendon of the external oblique.) When the viscera protrude through the space between the ves- sels and crescentic margin of the crural arch, they constitute what is called a Femoral Hernia. The sac in this case is covered by no fascia, properly speaking, having superjacent to it merely the loose cellular substance which occupied the pas«ige, and the thick . mass of cellular substance, glands, and fat, which lies in the trian- gular hollow at the upper part of the thigh between the pectineus and sartorius muscles. This irregularly laminated and tough tis- sue, when stretched by the tumour, often presents, on dissection, the appearance of layers, but these are very variable in number as well as thickness, and cannot be distinguished in an operation. The fasciae, therefore, are interesting in regard to femoral hernia, merely in so far as they constitute the stricture that opposes the reduction of the bowels. X