PllINCirLES OF SURGERY. 290 p\irulent discliarge issues from the orifices, which are generally nu- merous, and the whole breast becomes hard, and immoveably at- tached to the ribs through induration and adhesion of the muscular, celluhu*, glandular, and cutaneous tissues. The appearances pre- sented by the disease are then so alarming, and indeed hopeless, to one not acquainted with the nature of the case, that excision of the affected parts might very readily be thought of, and, there is reason to believe, has even been executed. ]\Ir Hey of Leeds proposed, as a substitute for removal, the free incision of all the sinuses, so as to lay them fairly open, however numerous and deep, even though it should be necessary in doing this to divide, or even insulate, portions of the gland. This severe practice, though still employed by some, is not necessary, since experience has shown, tliat merely enlarging moderately \vith the knife the orifices of the more dependent sinuses is sufficient for the purpose. During the process of cure, the af- fected breast should occasionally be rubbed with some gently sti- mulating liniment A sidphate of zinc lotion, either simple or combined with spirits, as recommended by Mr Hey,* will be the best application to the sirnfaces of the wounds; and it is useful to throw injections of the same into the siniises that have not been laid entirely open. Vascular Sarcoma. Vascular sarcoma, or hypertrophy of the mamma, seldom occurs to such an extent as to constitute what may be regarded a diseased enlargement, and fulness of the breast is generally owing much more to redundance of the adipose tissue than the size of the gland. Occasionally, however, the mamma does suffer a morbid increase, and may attain such dimensions as to become an insufferable load to the patient. Cases are recorded, in which tumours of this kind were found after removal to weigh many pounds. Iodine and pressure may perhaps have some effect in repressing such growths, or even in diminishing them, especially if conjoined with efficient means for improving the general health, and restoring any secre- tions that are found to be suppressed ; but if the tumour continues to enlarge, and is the cause of intolerable oppression to the patient, there can be no doubt as to the propriety of removing it • li Aquae - - unc. xxx. Sp. Rosmar. - unc. ii. Sp. Lavand. comp. dr. ii. Zinci Sulpiiat. - dr. j. M. ft. lotio. Hey’s Surgical Observations, chap. xxii. p. o^.