piuxcirLics or surgery. 414 cc^ccling surgeons have confirmed the accuracy of his observations, so far as London is concerned; but in Edinburgh and otlier jjarts of Scotland, this chimney-sweeper’s cancer is never met with, ex-« cept in persons who have begun to sutfer from it elsewhere. The following is the description of Mr Pott: “ It is a disease which always makes its first attack on, and its first appearance in, the inferior part of the scrotum, where it produces a superficial, painful, ragged, ill-looking sore, with hard and rising edges. The trade call it the soot wart. In no great length of time it pervades the skin, dartos, and membranes of the scrotum, and seizes the testicle, which it enlarges, hardens, and renders truly and thorough- ly distempered, from whence it makes its way \ip the spermatic process into the abdomen; most frequently indurating and spoiling the inguinal glands. When arrived within the abdomen, it affects some of the viscera, and then very soon becomes painfully de- structive.”* The only remedy for this disease is removal of the cancerous part; and unless the operation be performed before the morbid })rocess has advanced far, it does not afford any chance of a perma- nent cure. Diseases of the Female Organs of Generation. The vagina is sometimes more or less completely obstructed by a membrane at its orifice, which opposes the exit of the menstrual discharge. The non-appearance of the menses at the usual period of life, or the symptoms connected with their retention, should al- ways lead to an inquiry respecting the conformation of the parts, and if such a congenital imperfection as the one just mentioned is discovered, the patient may be completely relieved by a very sim- j)lc operation; all that is ne.ccss<iry being to divide the membrane with a knife or scissors, and interpose a piece of lint between its cut edges. The vagina, in some rare cases, luis been found alto- gether wanting for j)art of its extent, in which cases, of course, no- thing can be done in the way of remedy. The Uterus is subject to the developemcnt in its substance of simj)le sarcomatous tumours of a very firm fibrous structure, which often grow from different parts of the organ at the same time, and, though generally not exceeding the size of an egg, arc sometimes so large as to distend the abdomen far beyond the limits of an or- dinary pregnancy. Iodine and other inedicines are prescribed, • Pott’s Surgical Works, Vol Hi p. 177.