PRINCirLKS OF SURGERY. 354 Retention of Urine from blows on the Perineum. Blows on the perineum are apt to occasion difficulty or tohil ob- struction of the urinary evacuation. In some cases there is no so- lution of continuity effected by the violence, no wound of the in- teguments, or rupture of the parts within, but merely as it seems a temporary paralysis, or want of consent in the muscles concerned, in consequence of the contusion. At other times the urethra is torn, blood streams from the orifice of the penis, not a drop of urine can escape, and a tumour is formed under the integuments of the perineum opposite the injured ])arts, by blood and urine. The treatment of such injuries is obvious, and not difficult. If there is no evidence of the urethra being ruptured, it may be ex- pected that rest, warm fomentations, and slightly stimulating in- jections thrown into the rectum, will soon restore the healthy ac- tions which have been disturbed; and, should circumstances re- quire it, a catheter may he introduced with the same facility as usual, to relieve the bladder from distension. For some time after such injuries, a bougie should be passed occasionally to pre- vent contraction of the canal, which is apt to happen in consequence of the irritation caused by the blow. But if, from the discharge of blood, the tension of the perineum, and the impossibility which is experienced in attempting to introduce a catheter, it is ascer- tained that the urethra has been ruptured, means must be taken without delay to provide for the evacuation of the urine, which cannot be expected to take place naturally, and to prevent the fluid from passing extensively into the cellular substance through the breach of the urethra, which would necessarily lead to the most disiistrous consequences. The best mode of proceeding is to cut into the perineal tumour, and then having brought the rup- tured canal into view, to convey a flexible catheter into the blad- der. It may be allowed to remain for a few days, as in the case of operating for fistula in perineo with obstructed urethra, and the subsequent treatment does not differ from that which is proper in these circumstances. Diseases of the Prostate Gland. The Prostate Gland is little subject to disease previous to the af^e of fifty-five or sixty. It is then liable to an enlargement, which in its nature most agrees with the simple vascular sarcoma, and though often named scirrhus, has none of the characters of car- cinomatous formations except an approach to their hardness. The