principi.es of surgery. 260 The treatmen consists in bending the knee, and extending tlie ankle so as to relax the gastrocncmirrs as much as possible, apply- ing lateral compresses at the injured part to keep the ends of the tendon in proper position, and supporting the limb with a bandage. Various contrivances have been employed to maintain the rcqrusitc posture. Of these the slijrper and calf-piece of Monro I. may be first mentioned. The calf-piece Dr Monro compares to the article of dress which jockeys wear to connect their breeches and boots, differing only in so far that it is made to lace on, instead of being buttoned. By means of a straj) and buckle, the heel of the slipper can be drawni up to this bandage and secured, so as to effect permanent extension of the ankle. Petit used a similar apparatus, with this difference, that the strap coming from the heel of the slipper was fastened to a collar surrounding the thigh above the knee, which had the advan- tage of keeping the knee bent, as well as the foot extended. This seems on the whole to be the best method, and an aj)paratus suffi- ciently effective for the purpose may be readily constructed extem- poraneously. Compresses of lint should be placed on each side of the tendon at the ruptured part. In the course of three or four weeks the reunion is completed; but it does not become strong enough to resist much force until a considerably longer period has elapsed, during which the patient should be cautious in using the limb, and as a precaution against straining the tendon, wear a high- heeled shoe. L^umviation and Slougldmj of Tendoiis. The tendons, their fibrous sheaths, and also the fasciaj which lie over them, are very readily deprived of vitality by inflam- mation. This occurrence most frequently happens in the fingei'^ and palm of the hand in what is called Paronychia or Whit- low. By this term is understood an intense inflammation, ge- nerally confined to one finger, but sometimes affecting several, and extending into the palm of the hand, to which also it is occasionally limited. Though the swelling is generally on both sides, the principal seat of disease is almost always confined to the palmar aspect. The j)ain is agonizing, the tension great, and the redness of the skin affected very bright. The inflam- mation extends to various depths, and leads to consequences of corresponding importance. Sometimes there is merely a collection