221 JOINTS. of proceeding is to extend the thumb with moderate force, and at the same time to exert strong pressure on the extremity of the pha- lanx in the proper direction for pushing it into its place. The ope- ration when thus performed is sometimes executed with great faci- lity. In cases where the difficulty proves insuperable, one of the lateral ligaments may be cut, which would certainly be better than leaving the bone unreduced, as has sometimes been the case. A needle sharp on the edges or a very small knife should be employed for this pimpose, so as merely to puncture the skin. Fingers.—Both the proximal and distal, or first and third pha- langes of the fingers, are occasionally dislocated backwards, so that the displaced extremity rests on the dorsal siu-face of the cor- responding bone. The accident can hardly be overlooked or mis- taken, and the reduction is generally very easy, provided the force employed be directed chiefly upon the projecting end of the phalanx. Hip-Joint.—The hip-joint, notwithstanding the great strength of all the parts which enter into its formation, is subject to dislo^ cation in four different directions. 1. Upwards and backwards on the dorsum of the ilium. 2. Backwards into the sacro-ischiatic notcli. 3. Downwards into foramen ovale. And 4. Forwards upon the pubis. In dislocation upon the dorsum of the ili- um the bmb is shortened from one and a- half to two inches—the affected knee is bent over the sound one—and the foot is turned i inwards so that the great toe of it rests on the tarsus of the other. The thigh cannot : be moved except slightly inwards—the tro- ]. chanter major is higher up, and nearer the crest of the ilium than usual—and the head of the bone can sometimes be felt rolling un- : der the muscles when the limb is moved. This accident happens from falls on the side, and the circmnstance of having a load on the back, promotes the dislocation by in- creasing the strain. It happens most fre- quently in males, and is seldom met with I either in very young or in very old subjects, j being in a great measure confined to those ' in the vigour of life. To effect reduction the patient should be