178 rillNCIPLES OF SI RGERY. The fracture is usually seated iu the base of the bouc, opposite the bicusj)id teeth. It is sometimes contined to one side, sometimes ex- ists in both. It very rarely happens in the ramus, and is hardly ever met with at the symphysis. The natime and seat of the injury are readily recognized, owing to the thinness of the parts which cover the jaw ; and it is generally observed that the portion of the bone next the chin is depressed, partly by its own weight, j)artly by the action of the muscles which connect it with the os hyoides. The broken surfaces are easily retained in contact, by tying up the jaw with a handkerchief, or any similar bandage. A pasteboard splint is sometimes applied along the fi'ont and sides of the bone, but is in general quite unnecessary. Another contrivance fre- quently recommended appears, if possible, still less necessarj', viz. interposing a piece of wood or cork between the teeth, grooved so as to receive them in a channel both above and below. This is done to restrain motion of the jaw, and afford room for the introduction of nourishment; but the shape of the teeth effectually prevents any lateral movement when they are held together by a bandage, and there are always sufficient interstices between them to admit the entrance of soups or other fluid articles of food, which kind of nu- triment alone the patient is of com-se able to consiune, when depriv- ed of the power of mastication. In cases where, owing to tlie ob- li(iuity of the fracture, or any other cause, it is found unusually dif- ficult to maintain the edges of the bone in contact, a thread or sil- ver wire may be tied or twisted round the roots of the adjoining teeth, so as to draw them together; but this expedient should not be resorted to unnecessarily, since it is apt to loosen the teeth con- cerned. The ribs are generally broken by direct violence, but also by- pressure applied to their extremities, which difference in the ca\isc has been supposed to modify the consequences of the accident; since when the fracture is caused by direct violence, the rough spicula of bone are projected inwards, and readily' injure the pleura or lungs; biit when the rib is broken by being 1x;nt outwards by approximation of the sternum to the spine, the pai*ts contained within the chest are less endangered. The fractimc is attended by pain, aggravated by respiration, and by obscure crepitus. It is best ascertained by placing the hand on the injured part while the patient breathes. The diagnosis is frequently fiir from easy, from the patient’s inability to bear the ne- cessary examination; but its accuracy is not very essential, since the