27 EXCISION OF JOINTS. EXCISION OF JOINTS. More extended experience has confirmed my conviction, that the shoulder and elbow-joints are the only articulations which admit of excision with advantage for caries. Indeed the cases favourable for successful treatment of the former are so veiy rare, that the operation practically may be considered as limited to the latter situation. I have now operated- on the elbow upwards of ninety times, and with results almost uniformly of the most gratifying kind—the recovery being speedy, and the limb hardly, if at all, impaired in mobility or strength. My last patient, although at the advanced age of sixty-six, recovered quickly, without a bad symptom. In regard to the operation, I have nothing to add, except in warning against deviating from the procedure which ample experi- ence has ascertained to be the most eligible, whether the facility of execution, or perfection of the result, is the ground of judgment. During ray incumbency at University College Hospital, I had under my care a case in which Mr. Liston had operated in the way recommended by him, and felt much regret for the eflFect being so much less satisfactory than might have been expected, if an operator so able had adopted a dif- ferent method. Excision of the elbow-joint has been lately extended to a field where it promises to prove very advantageous—I mean the remedy of anchylosis, and the permanent displacement of articulating surfaces consequent upon dislocation or fracture. The elbow is peculiarly liable to such derangements; and when rendered, stiff by them—especially if maintained in the extended position—becomes nearly useless to the patient, who is always very desirous of relief. It was the case of a young man, whose arms were both in this state, and who was consequently in the most helpless condition that can be well imagined, which induced me to try the effect of cutting out the extremities of the bone, not on account of disease, but for the removal of their morbid adhesions. The operation is much more ditficult than when performed for caries ; and in order to be completely suc- cessful, requires a very free ablation of the bone concerned; but when properly executed, renders the limb nearly perfect in regard to motion and strength.