PllINCIPLES OF SURGEllV. 470 of overaction resulting from the excitability of the patient Between the sixth and twelfth months, another source of irritation occurs from the process of dentition; and for some time after this, though there may be little or no chance of a fatal issue, failure in effect- ing the object of the operation is still to be feared from the irrita- bility of the parts. The surgeon, therefore, if he has his choice, should not operate before the child is two or three years old, and in no case ought he to do so before the fifth month, or during the process of dentition, until all the incisors at least have appeared. So long as the child is at the breast the operation, of course, can- not be performed ; and it must consequently be weaned, if an ear- ly attempt at reparation should he determined on. When the jaw is preternaturally projecting, the prominent portion must be either reduced to a proper level by continued pressure, or removed by the knife. If of small extent it may be treated in the former way, but if at all considerable it requires the latter; and it is evidently pro- per to execute this preliminary part of the process as soon as pos- sible, in order to render the condition of the lip more favourable for union when the time for attempting it arrives. The operation must be varied in some respects according to cir- cumstances, but always essentially consists in joining the edges of the lij) after making them raw by paring the respective surfaces. This may be done by means of scissors, or by embracing the lip between the blades of forceps and shaving off the portion of the edge that is allowed to project beyond them, or histly, by seizing the lip with the finger and thumb, transfixing it with a knife a lit- tle above the angle where the two edges meet, and then removing a slice of the requisite extent or thickness. This last mentioned mode is on many accounts the one that ought to be preferred, and j)articularly because it enables the operator to regulate the shape of the cut surfaces more accurately than any other. The margins of the fissure present a convex outline, vviiich, if allowed to remain, would cause the edges, when joined, to form an unseemly angle in the lip at their point of meeting. The respective surfaces should therefore be made straight, or rather slightly concave, so that when brought together they may give the lijv its natural fulness. In per- forming the operation, the surgeon, holding the side to be cut, pushes the knife, which should be a bistoury such as is represented Plate I. Fig. 4, through it a little above the angle that is formed with the opposite one, and by a steady motion of the blade carries it downwards until the whole of the convex edge is removed. He next