PRINCIPLES or SURGERY. 192 2 and 3,) there was a compact mass of bone not only occupying the weeks after the injury had been received. The girl recovered, and is now well. In examining the limb to ascertain the extent to which the bone had died, I found that it was partially surrounded by the commencement of a new one. The shell had already acquired con- siderable firmness at some parts, but was not equally thick through- out, and did not seem fixed to the ends of the old shaft. This ob- servation led to a very careful dissection of the parts concerned; and they are now before the Society, (Plate VII. Fig. 2.) It will be seen that the tibia had died very neai’ly fi-om end to end, and that the new shell inclosing it has been fonned in the periosteum. The new osse- ous substance may be observed at some parts in the form of small dis- tinct scales. At other parts it looked as if it had originally con- sisted of separate portions, and been composed by their union. The periosteum connecting these portions to each other and to the extremities of the bone was not thickened beyond its natural con- dition ; and where it covered the posterior surface of the tibia, though quite detached from the old bone, had not suffered any far- ther change. There is here, then, an instance of a bone dying suddenly in consequence of acute inflammation, without any thickening having previously formed in its neighbourhood, and nevertheless succeeded by the production of a new osseous shell, which evidently could not proceed from the old bone, and no less evidently depended upon an ossific process resident in the periosteum. As Nature is not capricious or variable in her proceedings, I regard this case as sufficient of itself, without any fai-ther evidence, to establish the ossific power of the periosteum. But, with the view of making the matter still more clear, I performed the following experiments. I exposed the radius of a dog, and removed an inch and three-quarters of it together with the periosteum. At the same time 1 exposed the radius of the other leg, and removed a corresponding portion loithout the periosteum,(Plate VIII. Fig. 1 ,)which was carefully detached from it and left quite entire, except where slit open in front. Six weeks afterwards the dog was killed, and the hones examined. In the one, from which a portion had been taken together with the periosteum, (Fig. 2,) the extremities were found extended towards each other in a conical form, with a great deficiency of bone betw'een them, and in its place merely a small band of tough ligamentous texture. In the other, where the periosteum had been allow ed to remain, (Figs.