PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 110 The internal iliac has, on one or two rare occasions, been tied on account of aneurisms of the glutmal and ischiatic arteries, affect- ing these vessels after issuing from the sacro-ischiatic notch. The operation is to be performed in the same M'ay as that for the liga- ture of the external iliac, the incision being merely carried farther upwards, and made somewhat longer. The external iliac will form a good guide to the internal, which separates from the other at the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. The imeter crosses the vessel at this part, and might, through want of caution, be included in the ligature. The common iliac can require to be tied only on account of wounds, or anevu-isms extending uj) the external iliac. Wounds of the common iliac, from balls or thrusts of sharp-pointed weapons, granting that they were not attended with any other fatal injury, would very seldom afford the time and opportunity necessary for applying a ligature, owing to their profuse hemorrhage; and where the aneurismal sac extends up into the pelvis, it generally adheres so intimately to the peritoneum as must render the ligature of the common iliac, without injuring this membrane, all but impossible. Dr i\Iott, of New York, has nevertheless lately succeeded in ty- ing the vessel successfully. The aneurism reached far into the pelvis, but he managed to separate the peritoneum from its sac, so as to expose the artery, and pass a ligature romid it. He made an incision about six inches long, extending higher up than the one requisite for tying the internal iliac artery, and found great assist- ance from thin wooden spatulas, which were employed to hold aside the peritoneum with the intestines. Dr Crampton, of Dublin, in a case which unfortunately did not prove successful, found the ope- ration greatly facilitated by giving the incision a curved direction, with its extremity towards the crest of the ilium, and its upjier ex- tremity carried over the point of the lowest false rib. In a case of very large iliac anexirism, extending nearly to the umbilicus, I tied the common trunk without so much difficulty as might have been expected; but mortification had commenced ju’cviously, and am- putation of the limb subsequently did not save the patient The aorti is occjisionally found, on dissection of dead bodies, to be very narrow, or altogether impervious, either in consequence of original malformation, or owing to the com])lete spontaneous coa- gulation of large aneimisms in its course. In these cases the blood seems to be conveyed to the parts below the obstruction, chiefly by means of the anastomoses between the lumbar arteries, and