469 EYE. fering extreme distress from the exposure of the organ until it ac- quired a cuticular covering, which, while it afforded protection against irritation, would effectually destroy the power of vision. It will seldom be necessary, however, to cut out a sound eye on this account, as when the cancer is so extensive as to require removal of the whole or greater part of the upper lid, it almost always ex- tends to the conjunctival covering of the ball. Obstruction, Abscess, and Fistula of the Lacrymal passage. The duct which discharges the tears into the nose is apt to be- come obstructed at its inferior orifice, so as to impede or altoge- ther prevent the fluid from descending. This usually occurs in persons who have been previously suffering from chronic inflam- mation of the conjunctiva or ophthalmia tarsi, and it has conse- ([uently been ascribed to the accumidation of thick mucous mat- ters resulting from the morbid secretion thus produced. It seems more reasonable to suppose, tliat, by an extension of diseased ac- tion, the lining membrane of the nasal duct swells so as to con- tract or close the canal. The distinctive symptom of obstruction is distension of the lacrymal sac, forming a flattened round tumour at the inner angle of the eye, lying under the tarsal ligament, and hence often appearing as if hilobated. It is immoveable, and w hen subjected to pressure, usually diminishes or disappears, the con- tents being forced either downw'ards through the duct, which re- mains pervious though contracted, or u])wards through the puncta lacrymalia. When the secretion of the tears is excited by mental emotion, or external irritation, such as that caused by a cold wind blowing on the eye, they run over the cheeks more copiously than in ordinary circumstances, and the patient frequently complains of a disagreeable feeling of dryness in the nostril. The treatment of Epiphora, as this morbid condition of the la- crymal passage has been named, is conducted on different princi- ples, according to the view that is entertained of its origin and cause. There can be no doubt that a diseased state of the eye- lids, whether regarded as leading directly or indirectly to the ob- struction, ought to be remedied, if possible, without delay. It is then customary to inject fluids into the puncta, and introduce small gold or silver probes through them in order to clear the passage ; but such means are found to be very ineffectual. The probe should be round, and very smooth at its extremity, to prevent its being caught in the lining of the canal, and slightly curved to suit