PRlNCin.ES OF SURGERY. 158 hrim of the pelvis, and with his fingers u|X)n the hip. Then the sur- geon introduces the point of a narrow knife about ten inches long, nearly half-way between the spinous process of the ileum and tro- chanter major, thrusts it through obliquely behind, so as to come out just below the tuberosity of the ischiiun,'—and then, while the limb is abducted, completes the flap by cutting downwards close to the posterior surface of the bone. The assistant should now trans- fer the fingers of one hand to the bleeding surface, and compress directly the mouths of the arteries that seem to be largest. The operator next inserts liis knife between the fore part of the bone and parts that remain to be divided, and cuts douu along it so as to ob- tain a large flap on the inner side to compensate for the smallness of the first one. While this is doing, the assistant should place the fingers of his hand which has hitherto rested on the pnbal side of the limb in the breach formed by the knife, so as to compress still more certainly the femoral vessels, whicli wall not be cut across iintil the flap is nearly completed. The limb being now sti’ongly abducted, the surgeon cuts round the pubal margin of the acetabu- lum, sufficiently to let the head of the bone escape ; after which the mnscular and ligamentous connections that remain arc easily separated. This operation can be performed very rapidly, affords ])lenty of room to the assistants for compressing the vessels, renders the pre- vious ligature of the artery unnecessary, and leaves ample materials for a good stump. The fore-arm ought to be amputated by making two equal flaps, from before and behind ; the arm being held while this is done in the middle state of supination and pronation, in order to relax the muscles equally, and thus facilitate the operation. The hand may be removed at the wrist-joint by fransfixing the limb laterally and forming a flap from the palmar aspect; but the longer stump thios obtained is not found to facilihite the adaptation, or increase the utility, of an artificial hand ; and tlie large articular surface which remains, though it may not materially delay the cure, must always cause deformity. The arm may be amputated above the elbow, either by'^double flap, or circular incision ; but the former mode is greatly prefera- ble. A tourniquet is here quite unnecessary, as the vessel can be compressed easily and effectually by the_hand placed over it at the inner edge of the biceps. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is not unfrequently reqxiired.