rRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 66 When inflammation attacks a morbid growth, it either termi- nates in resolution or mortification, or leads the w'ay to some of the actions which have been described. But, whatever the action may be, it almost invariably proceeds in a depraved malignant sort of manner, so as to prevent a cime, or any satisfactory termination. ^Morbid growths deserve great attention, not only on account of the distressing consequences which thus ensue, but also in regard to the deformity and inconvenience which they occasion directly by their presence. They may be removed in three ways, viz. by ab- sorption, mortification, and excision. In order to determine on the choice of these means, and execute them properly, it is necessary to be acqiuunted more particularly with the diflferent kinds of mor- bid growtlis. Mr Abernethy’s arrangement and nomenclature of tumours arc generally adopted. He divided them into Sarcomatous and En- cysted ; the former being solid ; the latter composed of a cyst con- taining matters of variable consistence. Vascular Sarcoma. Of all morbid growths, the simplest and apparently most akin to the natural structure, is that which has been named Simple or Vas- cular Sarcoma. It seems to be chiefly composed of accumiilated celliUar tissue and blood-vessels. It sometimes exists as an inde- pendent tumour; but more frequently constitutes what are called simple enlargements of natural parts, as the testicle, thyroid gland, or scrotum. It produces little inconvenience, except what proceeds from its size ; and is recognized by negative characters; that is, by not manifesting the pecidiarities which distinguish tlie other kinds of morbid growth. Of all tumours, this is the one wliich yields most readily to means that promote absorption; and these, accordingly, are cliiefly employ- ed in its treatment Of local applications, blisters and stimidating lotions, wdth ointments containing mercury, iodine, and the hydrio- datc of potass arc the most useful,—more or less pressure being at the same time applied. Mercury and iodine are also^ very service- able when administeretl internally so as to aflect the system, care being taken that their use is not pushed too far, so as to injure the patient’s health. If the timioin* during the treatment becomes red or painful, a few leeches should be applied; and the utmost care is to he taken throughout, that the patient’s secretions are duly performed. In this w'ay chronic enlargements of the glands, and