PRlNCirLES OF SURGERY. 35G except when the urinary organs suffer irritation from a local or constitutional cause. They then become greatly aggravated, and constitute what is called a fit of the disease; during which the pa- tient has an almost incessant desire to empty his bladder, experi- ences exti’emc pain in attempting to do so, and sometimes labours under a complete retention of xu’inc. Considerable information may usually be obtained as to the existence and degree of the en- largement, by examining the gland with the finger in the rectum, after a catheter or bougie has been introduced into the bladder. Unless this precaution be taken, the prostate is very apt to be thought enlarged when it is not altered in size. The cause of the disease, tis might be expected, seems to be ex- citement of the gland, either directly or through sympathy with the neighbouring parts; and it is accordingly observed chiefly in those who indulge in venereal excesses, who use a luxurious diet, or who are exposed to the stimulating influence of a warm climate. It oc- curs much more frequently in persons whose circumstances are easy than in the labouring poor. The treatment of enlarged prostate obviously requires the pre- vention, so far as possible, of all circumstances tending to promote its increase. With this view the patient should live sparingly,— scrupulously avoiding all articles of food and drink which he knows from experience have a stimulating effect on the organs connected with the gland, take gentle exercise, and preserve the bowels in an easy state by means, if necessary, of gentle laxatives or injections of mild fluids into the rectum. During the paroxysms of the dis- ease, rest in the horizontal posture, the hip- bath, leeches applied to the perineum, small doses of laudanum, or solution of the mu- riate of morphia, with a few drops of balsiim ofcopaiva, opiate injections into the rectum, and a diet restricted to little more than mucilaginous drinks, arc the means which prove most effectual in affording relief. Should the flow of urine not only be rendered difficult, but be altogether impeded, it may become necessary to introduce the cjithetcr. The instrument selected should be of a me- dium size, about thirteen and a-half inches long, and curved in this form, so as to ascend