32 PltlNCIPLES OF SURGERY. question should be restricted to the treatment of large her- nial protrusions such as those of the scrotum, and of patients in unhealthy hospitals, where a strong disposition to inflamma- tion of the serous membrane may be inferred from the fre- quency of erysipelas and phlebitis. STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. I still regard dilatation by simple bougies as the best means of treating stricture of the urethra in its ordinary form, and still adhere to the disapprobation formerly expressed with re- spect to the use of caustic, and internal incision of the iu*ethra by lancetted catheters. But nearly ten years have now elapsed since I became satisfied that certain cases of the disease did not admit of remedy by dilatation, and required division of the contracted part of the canal. At the same time, I became satisfied that there were no strictures traly impermeable : and that any urethra which allowed the urine to pass through it, could by proper care be made to admit the entrance of instru- ments. It is therefore requisite that these two points should now be fully explained. There are two forms of stricture in which the bougie has been found inadequate to afford relief. In one of these the canal, especially at the seat of contraction, is so extremely irritable, that even the most gentle use of instruments gives rise to violent and dangerous disturbance of the system, with rigors followed by fever, and frequently local inflammation. The patient, exhausted by such efforts, dreads their repetition ; and successive practitioners, finding their most careful efforts load only to the same results, any farther attempts to afford relief are at length deemed inexpedient, and the disease is allowed to pursue its course, until a fiital retention of urine, or some equally fatal operation, undertaken to prevent ex- travasation, terminates the complicated sufferings of such a case. In the other form of stricture which resists the ordinary means of treatment, there is an extreme degree of resiliency and tendency to contract after dilatation, so that only the most evanescent relief can be obtained through the means employed for this purpose. It may be added, that in both of these obsti-