I’JUNCIPLRS OF SUFGEKY. 24 completed without tlic slightest hurry, in less than a minute, and if the flap is not scored or lacerated, or made too long, there is no chance of its sloughing. ^ A mputation of the Leg. •; The circumstances which were formerly held to rer^uire re- ^ moval of the leg so generally admit of relief through amputa- { tion at the ankle, that the former operation is now nirely ^ necessar}' in practice. Indeed, I have of late years performed | it chiefly for the remedy of useless or uncomfortable stumps, re- j suiting from amputation by flap at the middle or higher part of i the leg. There can be no doubt that in these situations the \ flap method is very apt to leave a mass of redundant matter, | aflbrding no protection to the bone, which, having nothing to cover it except an imperfect cicatrix, is a perpetual source of | discomfort and suffering. In order to prevent the risk of such | unpleasant occurrences, and also to afford relief from them * when they have unfortunately taken place, I think amputa- i tion of the leg should always be performed on the following I jn'inciplcs. I In the first place, it docs not seem desirable for any useful purpose to retain a longer stump than when the tibia is divided at the distance of an inch below the tuberosity, and as the can- cellated texture of this part is less prone to exfoliation than the dense substance of the shaft, it is therefore improper to oi)o- rate lower in the limb. Secondly, since a covering of muscle ' is not essential to the formation of a good stump, as may be seen from the I’esults of amputation at the ankle; and since the attempt to retain a muscular cushion below the knee is, as has just been mentioned, apt to leave the bone in an exposed | state, the operation should be so conducted as to make sure 1 of obtaining a sufHcicnt protection from the integuments. On 1 tlic whole, I believe from ample experience, that the following S inode of procedure, founded upon these principles, is the most S eligible that can be adopted. ^ A tourniquet having been applied above the knee, two semi- 3 lunar incisions arc to be made through the skin, from side to ’.s: side of the limb, with their convexities downwards, and their extremities meeting about two inches below the tuberosity of the tibia. The flaps thus formed arc then to be detached