INFLAMMATION. and must be confined to those which possess some vital property in addition to tliat of mere nutrition. It is sometimes, however, the only symptom ])resent, or at least the only one that can be re- cognized ; as when tlie organ affected is contained in an internal cavity. When the function of the organ is to receive the impression ofsome external stimulus, as that of the eye or the nose, it is performed either imperfectly, or not at all; and hence, as already observed, some have been led into the error of supposing, that the common sensibility of parts is occasionally diminished during inflammation. Derangement of Nutritive Action.—In addition to the serous and bloody effusions into the cellular texture, which always take place to more or less extent, the most firequent indication of a change in the action of the nutritive apparatus is softening of the tissue con- cerned. In some cases, this alteration is so remarkable, that it has been thought necessary to designate it by a peculiar expression, viz. ramoUissement. This effect of inflammation is, on many occa- sions, of great impoiiance, but at present deserves attention cluefly as affording evidence that the nutritive process is not performed in its usual manner. Another fact which leads to the same con- clusion is the rapidity with which putrefaction proceeds after death, in parts where inflammation has previously existed. It may be said that the more tlian usual proportion of fluids congested by the dis- eased action may account for this speedy decomposition, without supposing that the constituent p)articles are altered by it in theil* relation to each other. But, in such a view of the matter, we ought to observe the same pmtrefactive tendency equally strong in ]>arts where blood Inis been simply effused into theii’ textiue, which is not the case. Constitutional Disturbance.—The disturbance of the system, or 1 ever, as it is called, which accompanies inflammation, consists of an alteration in the jierforniance of all the fiiiictions of the body. Ihe phenomena, wliich are in consequence exhibited, vary very much, according to peculiarities of the patient’s constitution, and tlie jiart which is inflamed. Generally, the pulse is hard and freiiucnt, beating from 80 to 120, and in cliildren much faster,— the respiration is hurried,—the face is flushed,—the eyes are suf- fused,—the tongue is white and loaded,—there is no appetite,— inordinate thirst, — headach,— constipiation,—scanty urine,—dry- ness of the skin,—confusion of ideas or dcliriuni,—and prostration of strength in the voluntary muscles. This state of general dis- turbance, which is named Inflammatory or Symptomatic Fever, docs