102 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. though moderate and even copious bleeding is very proper previous to the operation, the patient ought not to have his strength reduced to a very low ebb by much depiction, or very rigorous diet during the cure. The l)ad consequences of tliis operation are gangrene, hemor- rhage, and suppuration of the sac. When the sloughing is of li- mited extent, and dependent on pressure or feebleness of the pa- tient’s general strength, it ought to be combated by appropriate local and constitutional remedies ; but when it is extensive, and the result of general inflammation of the limb, amputation should be performed without delay, as high at least as the artery has been tied. There seems to be reason for suspecting that the mortifica- tion sometimes depends on the principal vein becoming obstructed, in consequence of the irritation suflfered by its coats diming the ope- ration. The hemorrhage usually occurs about the time when the ligature separates, which is generally from the fourteenth to the tw’entieth day after the operation; but it may likewise occur either much sooner or considerably later. It appears for the most part very in- sidiously, not exceeding a few drops, but recurs from time to time in increasing quantity, until the patient, after being perhaps re- peatedly saved by syncope, is finally exhausted. Pressure, together with the means which tend to lessen the force of the circulation, may be tried in the first instance; but if the bleeding continues or returns, the surgeon must, without delay, either tie the artery nearer the heart, or amputate the limb. Suppuration of the sac is a disagreeable, but not very dangerous occurrence, since it seldom takes place until the artery has been obliterated, so that there is no great fear of bleeding, and little to dread but a foul and extensive abscess. \\’henever the matter is actually fonned, a free incision should be made to evacuate it, to- gether with the clots; after which, the cavity being in the first in- stance gently filled with lint, is to be treated with stimulating lotions and pressure. In a case of large diffused po])liteal aneurism, for which I tied the femoral artery, suppuration occurred seven months after the operation, and was followed, after evacuation of the matter, by a very copious bleeding, which proved, upon examination of the am- putated limb, to proceed from the breach in the artery leading into the aneurism, the vessel having been obliterated by the ligature only to the extent of three inches. The object of tying the artery being not to prevent the blood