2G PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. always readily formed from the ham, and the resulting stump is, I think, superior to any that can be formed in the thigli. I have had occasion to operate in seven or eight cases, and have always been satisfied with the results.” It thus appears that there may be peculiar conditions making this mode of amputation eligible. Amputation of the Thigh. The unqualified preference for the flap method in ampu- tating the thigh which I formerly expressed, has been consi- derably modified thVough the experience of more extended observation. I still think that when the limb requires re- moval at the middle or any higher point of the thigh-bone, the operation should be performed by the formation of two flaps, one being anterior and the other posterior. But when circum- stances permit amputation at the lower third of the limb, and especially if it be muscular, I am fully satisfied that great ad- vantage results from operating by circular incision, or, in other words, by providing a covering of integuments for the bone, instead of the muscular cushion which in this situation is so apt to retract and leave it exposed. The incision through the skin should not be circular, but de- scribe two semilunar lines from side to side, with the convexity towards the knee. The integuments having been separated from their subjacent connexions, and retracted to the extent of at least two inches, the muscles are to be divided as high as they are exposed in front, and as low behind so as to compen- sate for the inequality of retraction. The bone is then to be exposed at least two inches higher than where it has been brouo-ht into view by the anterior incision, and divided there while the muscles are carefully held up by a linen or leather retractor. ^ If the limb is not muscular, but soft or relaxed, as atter pi - tracted illness, or in females and children, the process may ^ conducted more simply and with much the same effect by makino- two short flaps, extending through both the skin and muscles, and then exposing the bone with great care, to let the saw be applied sufficiently high to prevent any risk ot the extremity being subsequently protruded.