462 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. distressing to the patient, but apt to terminate in blindness, by ren- dering the retina unable to perform its functions, or leading to ef- fusion of lymph in the interior of the eye. The two last of these effects are usually ascribed to contimiied irritation proceeding from the displaced lens pressing on the ciliary processes and retina. The treatment that has been explained, in reference to acute and chro- nic inflammation, must be employed according to the circumstances of the case. llcclination is performed in all respects as depression, except that the needle, after being applied to the anterior surface of the lens, is moved directly backwards instead of downwards. The ad- vantage contended for in favour of this modification of couching, is the smaller risk of inducing chronic inflammation by the pressure of the dislocated lens, which, however, is more apt to rise again than when depressed. Extraction of the cataract is an operation which was not prac- tised previous to the last century. It is effected by making an adequate opening in the cornea, puncturing the capsule, and thus allowing the lens to escape. The advantages of this proceeding are, 1. that the lens does not remain to excite irritation; and, 2. that no part of the eye is necessarily injiired except the cornea, which is not an irritable texture. The objections to it are, 1. the' risk of wounding the iris, and of allowing the vitreous humour to escape along with the lens; 2. the difficulty of the operation; and, 3. the danger of the wound of the cornea not uniting by the first intention, and suppurating, in which case collapse, with opacity of the eye, are the necessary consequences. The instruments required for the operation are a knife for cut- ting the cornea, and a small hook for rupturing the capsule. Rich- ter’s and Beer’s knives are the best for the purpose. They should increase from the point backwards in thickness as well as breadth, so as to prevent the aqueous humour from escaping until the inci- sion is completed, or at all events carried so far that the cornea is transfixed, since the danger of injuring the iris is not so great after this has been done. The hook should be exceedingly small and rectangular, or instead of it, a curved needle may be employed. The pupil ought not to be dilated, lest the vitreous humour escape. The patient should be seated or reclining, with his other eye co- vered. The upper eylid is to be carefully raised, without making any pressure on the ball; and the operator then depresses the lower one, at the same time fixing the eye with his fore and mid-