rniNCIPLES OF SUIIGERY. 68 wart, is often loosely and inaccurately employed to denote growths of a totally different character, merely from their occupying the same situation. Fibrous Sarcoma. Under this title may be comprehended the tiunours which haw been named Fibro-Cartilaginous, Tubercular, and Pancreatic Sar- coma. These gi’owths possess a structure varj-ing in density from that named Fibro-cai*tilage by anatomists, to the softer consistence of some glandular textures, as that of the pancreas. They have al- ways a nodidated, or what mineralogists call a botryoidal surface, and a compact homogeneous consistence, with the exception of small cells, variable in size and number; they are of a yellowish or grey coloiir; and are enclosed in a capsule, which separates them from the surrounding parts. They are met with in all parts of the body, but occiu’ most frequently in the vicinity of the parotid and mam- mary glands, wdiich they compress, and thus cause to be diminished by absorption, so as at last sometimes to occupy their place, and aj>- pear to superficial observers a morbid degeneration of the glands themselves. They are seldom attended with any inconvenience ex- cept what their size occasions, but occasionally become the seat of unejisy sensations; they are not prone to any other action than that of their own nutrition; and after attaining a certain magnitude, remain stationary, but in the coimse of time are apt to degenerate. The only efiicient treatment is removal by the knife, and this in general may be easily done. The incision should be matlc freely through the integuments, and fairly dowm to the substance of the tumour; and in detaching the cellular connections the knife should be directed against the surface of the growth, since it may be cut w'ith impunity, while the neighbouring parts by doing so are j>ro- tected from injury. Adipose Sarcoma. One of the most common solid tumours is that which has very properly been named the Adipose or Fatty Growth. Theapj)ear- ance of its structure is ])recisely what the title indicates, and hears the closest resemblance to that of the ordinary subcutaneous fat It is generally of a soraew'hat darker, though sometimes of a lighter yel- low colour, and not so granular; it is surrounded by a thin caj)sule, which keeps it distinct from the neighboitring parts, unle.ss they hap- pen to be pressed together by the patient’s clothes or otherwise, when