343 PELVIS. wliich is now performed iovjistula in uno being established on these principles, is extremely simple and easy, and is not attended with either much pain or risk of bleeding. It does not require any of the complicated instruments formerly employed, and is readily ef- fected by a blunt-pointed curved bistoury, such as is represented in Plate I. Fig. 5. The patient should be placed with his body bent forward, and his arms leant on a table or the back of a chair, un- less the fistula is on the left side of the anus, and the surgeon can- not use the bistom*y with his left hand, in which case the patient must be laid on his back with the thighs drawn up. The surgeon introduces his fore-finger into the gut, and then searches with a probe in the fistula for its internal opening, or if there is none, for the tliin denuded membrane where it would be, if present. Having withdrawn the probe, he insinuates the bistoury, carefully conveys its point through the internal opening, or, if none exists, pushes it through the septum, and then resting the back of the blade upon his finger, brings the point of the knife out at the anus, after which the septum may be divided qiiickly and easily. Any sinuses run- ning into the hip or perineum ought next to be laid open. Pieces of lint should be placed between the cut edges, and renewed for a few days until granulation is established, when superficial dres- sings, moistened witli sulphate of zinc or acetate of lead lotion, are sufficient. In cases of blind internal fistula, w'hich are rai’e, it w'ould be found very difficult to comply with the directions gene- rally given, to guide a probe up the gut into the sinus, and make its point protrude in the hip, to show where the knife shoidd be introduced to make the fistula complete. Such a process is fortu- nately quite unnecessary, as the seat of the sinus can always be readily recognized by its softness, compared with the firmness of the surrounding parts, especially those in the immediate neighbom-- hood, which constitute the walls of the cavity, and are indicated by the effusion of lymph. At the centre of this part, which is felt most soft and yielding, an incision should be made, and then the operation may be completed, as if there had been an external open- ing in the first instance. Fistula in ano, depending upon caries of the sacrum, or connect- ed with phthisis, is of course incurable ; but partial relief may often be afforded by giving the matter free vent for its discharge. It may be observed, that when the obstinacy of the fistula depends on other causes besides those of a local kind, and particularly the