40‘2 rRIXClPLl’S OF SUROEUV. ]Ijjdrocele. By Hydrocele is understood an accumidation of serous fluid in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, either occupying its whole ex- tent, or confined to the part covering the spermatic cord. In the former case, which is by far the most common, the swelling has generally a pyramidal figure, the large extremity being downwards —is devoid of pain and sensibility, except at the lower and back part where the testicle lies,'—-aj)pears translucent when jflaced be- tween the eye and a candle in a dai’k chamber,—and is felt to fluc- tuate when pressed between the fingers alternately. In hydroceles of old standing and large size, the tunica vaginalis often becomes distended to an equal size quite up to the external ring, and so thickened, that no translucency can be perceived. The fluctuation, insensibility to pressure except in tlie region of the testicle, and the history of the case, are then the only diagnostics from a swelling of the gland; and, if they shoidd leave any doubt, it can be removed by a puncture. From hernia, hydrocele may always be certainly distinguished by j)ressing the neck of the tumour between the fin- gers. In hydrocele of the cord, as collections of fluid in tliis situa- tion arc named, the swelling is usually round or oval, fluctuating and translucent, leaving the testicle quite distinct, so that it may be felt on all sides. It is sometimes associated with the other form of the disease, and can then hardly be recognized except by eva- cuating one or other of the sacs. The origin of hydrocele may sometimes be referred to blows or other sources of irritetion, but is in general very obscure. The existence of a predisposition to the disease is rendered probable by the fact, that the fluid sometimes collects first on one side, and then, perhaps after an interval of many years, appears on the other. The com])laint generally commences about middle age, but is met with at all ])eriods of life. Infinits sometimes labour under it, cither in consequence of the tunica vaginalis continuing to communicate with the cavity of the abdomen, and allowing fluid etfused there to descend into it,—a condition that has also, though very rarely, been observed in the adult,—or sim{)ly etfusion from some source of irri- tation often not observable. The treatment of the disease is either palliative or radical. The former consists in merely drawing off the fluid; the latter in doing so, and at the siime time jireventing its re-accumuhition. The pa- racentesis or tapping of a hydrocele is best performed with a small trocar (Plate III. Fig. 'S), which should be introduced at the ante- rior surface, about a third of the length of the tumour from the hot-