149 AjMPUTATION. iisels, which allows the blood to escape when impelled with more I)force than it was while the patient remained weak and faint. Cold 11 lotions and pressure will restrain it, if proceeding from the first of these Is sources; but additional ligatures will be required, if, resisting such I ] means, it proves to be from the second of them. The hemorrhage oc- (casionally does not occur until the third, fmmth, or even seventh day; land then almost always depends upon ulceration of the artery. In tthis case, as ligatures cannot be applied to the orifices of the vessels ndth any advantage, owing to the morbid state of their coats, the I bleeding must be arrested either by pressure, efiected through nmeans of compresses introduced into the stump, and a tight bandage sapplied externally, or by tying the trunk of the artery. The for- rmer of these methods is greatly preferable, when adequate to the fpurpose, which, with very few exceptions, it is found to be. When the stump does not unite, but inflames and suppurates, ffomentations ought to be frequently applied until the discharge is f fully established, when stimulating washes and pressure must be ^employed to support the weakened action of the granulating sur- ffaces and make them unite together. Purulent effusions into internal cavities occur chiefly in weak, idebilitated, irritable subjects, and have been accoimted for various- lly. They are known to residt in such habits from excited action, vwhatever be the cause producing it; and there is reason to believe, tthat, if lunputation has more frequently the effect of occasioning it this disturbance than other wounds of the same extent, it is owing tto the disturbance which it causes by suddenly removing a large ipart of the body. Inflammation of veins has also been supposed to !be the cause of this occurrence. There are no means of remedying ssuch eflfusions, and the only way of avoiding them is, in the first iplace, to avoid operating in circumstances which predispose to such 'Occurrences; and, in the second, to control diligently from its com- )mencement, by small bleedings, opiates, and the tarti-ate of anti- vraony, the constitutional excitement which precedes them. Exfo- liation of the bone is a very troublesome occurrence, not only from ^delaying the process of cure, but by tending to render it imperfect •through the retraction of the soft parts composing the stump, which ^gradually takes place in the event of their not uniting over the ex- itremity of the bone. It sometime? depends upon the injured or ediseased state of the limb—and may also be occasioned by too free iremoval of the periosteum, rough use of the saw, or deficiency in !the covering left for the bone. The most common form is here