PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 376 broken, its fragments must be carefully extracted with the scoop, if small, or the forceps if large. The tube is then to be introduced, either alone, or, if there is much tendency to hemorrhage, with some folds of lint WTapped round its middle; after which the pa- tient may be placed in bed, on his right side, with the limbs mode- rately bent. The after treatment in cases that proceed favourably is extreme- ly simple. j\Ieans must he employed to prevent the urine which distils through the tube from soaking the bed, by interposing a piece of oiled cloth between the breech, and a folded blanket laid under it, and applying tow or sponge at the orifice to imbibe the fluid. The diet, during the first three or four days, should be sparing, and of a farinaceous kind. Gentle laxatives, such as castor-oil, are to be administered, as occasion may require. The tube may be withdrawn at the end of two or three days. About the ninth day a little xu-ine is generally observed to issue from the urethra; and when the natural passage thus begins to be resumed, the discharge by the wound very soon ceases, so that by the thirteenth or fifteenth day the whole is evacuated by the penis. The bad consequences of the operation are, 1. Sinking; 2. Hemorrhage; 3. Infiltration of urine ; 4. Inflammation at the neck of the bladder; 5. Peritonitis; 6. Recto-vesical fistula. Unless the patient is extremely weak from the exhaustion of dis- ease, or the feebleness of his age, as when it is below two, or beyond seventy years, there is no risk of his sinking directly under the ef- fects of the irritation attending the operation, if properly performed. But if, from the inadequate size of the wound in the bladder or le- vator am, the stone, instead of being gently extracted, is dragged out by force, after long and painful ineffectual attempts to draw it through, the stoutest individual may sufler a shock too great for his strength, and die in the course of a few hours, as if suffering from profuse hemorrhage, an extensive burn, or any other injury destruc- tive to the powers of life. If the vessels are regularly ebstributed, and the surgeon cuts no more than he ought to do, there is hardly any fear of a fatal or even troublesome bleeding. Should the dorssil artery of the penis rise from the pudic high in the pelvis, and take the course which it has been observed to follow in some few' cases along the neck of the bladder, and obliquely across the lateral lobe of the prostate, it can hardly escape division during the performance of the opera- tion which has been described. The coincidence of such an ir-