43.3 BRA IX. recovery. The unyielding nature of the pai’ictes of tlie cranium, even though at some parts remaining in a membranous state, must equally prevent the complete removal of the fluid, and the employ- ment of effectual compression afterwai’ds to oppose its reproduction. No great risk seems to be incurred, in the first instance, since the wounds made by introducing the trocar have generally healed with- out producing any bad consequences, which may perhaps be ac- counted for by the thin expanded state of the cerebral substance, but the progress of the case is usually accelerated rather than checked. Injuries and Diseases of the Spinal Canal and its contents. The spinal cord is liable to concussion from blows and falls, particidarly the latter, the symptoms of which are similar to those of concussion of the brain, inasmuch as they denote suspension of the functions usually exercised by this part of the nervous sys- tem. As these consist chiefly in conduction of the impressions producing sensation and voluntary motion, the {mtient loses more or less completely the feeling and power of moving in all the i portion of the body, which is supplied with nerves originating fi’om the spinal cord, below the part where it has suffered from the ex- ternal violence. The organ does not recover from this state of in- action so soon as the brain,—a day or two at least almost always elapsing before any well-marked sign of improvement is percepti- ble. It is probable that the cause of this may be effusion of serum, or blood, occurring in consequence of the injury, which, subsequent- ly undergoing absorption, allows the usual actions to be restored. In cases of this kind, the treatment, in the first instance, should consist merely in rest, and, if necessary, introducing the catheter to draw off the urine. The patient, though insensible to extenial stimuli, generally complains of mieasy feelings, sometimes amount- ing to intense pain, in the paralyzed part of his body ; and if the state of his pulse, or other symptoms, such as flushing of the face, tenderness of the back to pressmre, &c. should indicate the com- mencement of inflammation, general and local bleeding, wann fo- mentations, and purgative injections, must be assiduously employed to arrest the morbid process. After the acute symptoms have been subdued, and also in cases where the injury has not been ])rimarily followed by them, the patient sometimes makes very slow ])rogress in regaining the powers he has lost Counter-irritation by blister- ing, tartrate of antimony ointment, or the actual cautery, then of- ten proves extremely useful; while warm bathing, w'ith friction.