404 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. necessarily excited suppuration of the whole surface, which then gradually contracted like that of an ordinary abscess. This prac- tice was emj)loyed during the last century, though not unfrequent- ly attended with serious accidents in irritable constitutions. The Seton wjis applied to this purpose by Guy de Chauliac, in the fourteenth century, and is mentioned by Fallopius, Pare, and others, but was never very extensively used, cither then or in more recent times. P. Pott strongly recommended it, and has given a very particular description of the mode of performing the opera- tion. The essential j>art of it is the introduction of a skein of silk, or cotton, through the jiarictes of the swelling in its long di- rection. Inflammation and suppuration follow, and at the end of a fortnight, the seton being withdrawn, the cure is soon complet- ed, Notwithstiinding all the precautions that can be useil, the ir- ritation thus excited sometimes occasions an alarming degree of inflammation, and even in the most successful cases a long and irksome confinement is required. The treatment by Injection was first employed by the surgeon of a Scotch regiment, named Monro, in the early part of last century. Various trials of it were made in this and other countries, particularly by Sabatier of Paris ;* but Sir J. Earle had the merit of introducing it into British practice. The object of the operation is to excite a degree of inflammation, sufficient to occasion such a change in the state of the parts con- cerned as may prevent the water from returning. An endless va« riety of fluids have been employed for this purpose, but port wine, solution of sulphate of zinc, and cold water, have been chiefly used until lately, wffien the tincture of iodine has come to supersede all the others. It may be used cither pure, by injecting a small quan- tity and allowing it to remain, or mixed with water, in the propor- tion of one part of the tincture to three of water. There is some difference of opinion as to the mode in which irritating fluids, in- jected into the tunica vaginalis, act in radically curing the disease. Some have alleged that the respective serous surfaces become firm- ly united, in consequence of an effusion of lymph from them; and others maintain that there is merely a change produced in the se- creting action of the vessels, which prevents the fluid from re-accu- mulating, though the cavity remains as perfect as ever. It is proba- ble that the truth lies between these two opinions, and that, though imion of the adjacent surfaces is not essential to the cure, adhesions generally do take place in more or less of their extent • .Mem. Acad. Cliinirg. Tom v.