rillNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 374 veying the knife more directly than a curved one, but is liable to the objection of occupying the operator’s left hand, while the sec- tion is made, instead of leaving it at liberty to press aside the rec- tum, and ascertain when the incision has been carried far enough, in children, where the prostate is easily divided, and where, from the necessarily small size of the instrument that is introduced, the difficulty attending a curved direction of the groove is greatest, the straight staff may be preferable. 2. A knife, which, including both the handle and blade, should be between seven and eight inches in length. The blade ought to have its cutting part at least two inches long, not very broad, and sharp enough at the point to per- mit its being pushed through the skin and other parts. 3. Forceps for extracting the stone, of two or three ibffercnt sizes, of which the blades should be broad, moderately hollowed, and destitute of projecting teeth, which are apt to break the calculus. 4. A scoop to remove fragments or gravel. And, 5. a flexible tube, about six inches long, and half an inch wide, to convey away the urine after the operation, and prevent its infiltration into the cellular substance. The parts that require to be cut are, 1. the integuments, which should be divided to the extent of about three inches in an adult, or more if the subcutaneous adipose tissue is unusually tliick, and of course less in children. The incision should extend obliquely from the raphe of the perineum to the hip, passing nearly equidis- tant between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. 2. The trans- verse muscle of the perineum, and anterior part of the levator ani. 3. The transverse artery of the perineum. 4. The membranous part of the urethra. 5. The prostate gland through the whole ex- tent of its left lateral lobe. And the parts wdiich ought not to be cut are, 1. The rectum, which may be injured in laying o])cn the perineum, in cutting into the groove of the staff, and in diviebng the prostate, but chiefly in enlarging the wound, in case it proves too small, subsequently to withdrawing the staff. 2. The artery of the bulb of the urethra, and the bulb itself, from cutting into the canal too far forwards, and at its lateral part. 3. The j)udic artery, from cutting too much in a lateral (brection in making the section of the prostate. 4. The internal fascia of the perineum, or vesical reflexion of the pelvic fascia, from cutting the prostate upwards, or carrying the incision beyond it in a lateral direction. When the operation is to be perfonned, the patient shoidd have his bowels freely evacuated by a laxative administered the day be- fore. He sh.ould be placed reclining on a table about two feet and