366 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. N'ame. I. Uric Acid Calculus, (Schcele, 1776.) External Characters. Colour, brownish-yellow ; sur- face smooth, or elevated into small tubercles ; shape general- ly flattened-oval ; size, from that of a large egg downwards; structure laminated ; very com- mon. Chemical Characters. Gradually consumed before the blowpipe; soluble in caustic potass, insoluble in diluted acids ; but soluble in nitric acid, the solution affording on evaporation to dryness a bright carmine-coloured residue. II. Phosphate of lime, C. (Wollaston, 1797.) Colour, pale-brown ; surface smooth, like porcelain ; struc- ture loosely laminated ; small size; extremely rare, as forming entire concretions, but not so unfrequentlyconstituting alter- nate layers with other matters. III. Triple phosphate of magnesia and ammo- nia. C. (Wollaston, 1797.) (See frontispiece.) White shining crystals, or white crust, not forming entire concretions, but coating the surface, or lying between the Liyers of others, and never ex- hibiting in its own structure a laminated arrangement. IV. Fusible calculus, (consisting of a combi- nation of the two la.st. Wollaston, 1797.) V. Mulberry, or ox.alate of lime, C. ( Wollaston, 1797.) Colour, white like chalk; shape that of the cavity in which it lies; size often very large; struc- ture laminated, or compact and friable; common, as an incrus- tation of foreign bodies. Colour, very dark-brown; .sur- face rough, with large tuber- cles ; consistence vcry_hard; size seldom exceeding that of a wal- nut ; structure compact, al- ways single. Whitens when exposed to the blowpipe ; soluble in muriatic acid ; insoluble in caustic po- tash, and does not give off am- monia. Diminishes under the blow- pipe ; exhaling an ammoniacal odour, and at last suffering im- perfect fusion; soluble in dilute acids, .and insoluble in-caustic potash, but gives off ammonia. Readily fused under the blow- pipe into a transparent glass; partially soluble in acetic or dilute sulphuric acid, and the remainder dis.solvcd by muria- tic ' acid ; insoluble in caustic potash, but gives off ammonia. Under the blowpipe expands, and effloresces into a white powder, which when moisten- ed, and applied to turmeric paper, causes a red stain ; not soluble in pure alkalies, nor in the muriatic and nitric acids, unless finely powdered, and as- sisted by heat.