AMPUTATION. 23 over the prominence of tlie os calcis, and inserted the point of his tlmmb between the edges of the plantar incision, guides the knife between the bone and nail of tlie thumb, taking great care to cut parallel with the bone, and to avoid scoring or lacer- ation of the integuments. He then opens the joint in front, carries his knife outwards and downwards on each side of the astragalus, so as to divide the lateral ligaments, and thus com- pletes the disarticulation. Lastly, the knife is carried round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to afford room for applying the saw, by means of which the articular projections are removed, together with the thin connecting slice of bone covered by cartilage. The vessels being then tied, and the edges of the wound stitched together, a piece of wet lint is applied lightly over the stump, without any bandage, so as to avoid the risk of undue pressure in the event of the cavity becoming distended with blood, which would be apt to occasion sloughing of the flap. When recovery is completed, the stump has a bulbous form, from the thick cushion of dense textures that cover the heel, and readily admits of being fitted ■with a boot. The advantages which I originally anticipated from this operation were—Jirst, the formation of a more useful support for the body than could be obtained from any form of ampu- tation of the leg ; and, secondly, the diminution of risk to tlie patient’s life, from the smaller amount of mutilation, the cut- ting of arterial branches instead of trunks, the leaving entire the medullai'y hollow and membrane, and the exposure of can- cellated bone, which is not liable to exfoliate like the dense osseous substance of the shaft. From my own experience, amounting to upwards of fifty cases, and that of many other practitioners who have adopted amputation at the ankle, I now feel warranted to state that these favourable expectations have been fully realized, and that, in addition to its other advantages, this operation may be regarded as almost entirely free from danger to life. The objections which have been alleged against the opera- tion are, its extreme difficulty, and the risk of the flap slough- ing. But, with all deference to the authors of these allegations, I do not hesitate to say, that, in so far as well founded, they shoidd be attributed to the operator, and not to the operation. In the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, this disarticulation is