AMPUTATION. 25 from their subjacent connexions, so as to expose the bones at the distance of an inch below the tuberosity. The muscles are next divided behind about the middle of the extent to which their surface has been exposed, and then before the inter- osseous ligament on a level with the line where the saw is to be applied. Allowance having thus been made for the un- equal retraction of the anterior and posterior muscles, the sur- face of flesh and bone presented after the operation is perfectly even, and admits of being covered by the flaps of integument without either straining or redundance. The stump thus formed may either be rested on the skin, or employed so as to retain the use of the joint, by means of an apparatus consisting of a hollow cone secured by straps buckled round the knee. Amputation at the Knee. The advantages which had been experienced in amputating at the ankle from the cancellated texture of the bone exposed not being liable to exfoliation, and from the medullary canal of the shaft not being opened, suggested to me the expediency of operating for disease requiring removal of the knee-joint by sawing through the condyles of the thigh-bone, and securing an adequate covering of soft parts by forming a short anterior and long posterior flap. The results of this procedure in my own practice, and that of various surgeons who have adopted it, are very encouraging; and if the choice in such cases lay merely between amputating at the knee and doing so at the middle of the thigh, I should feel inclined to maintain the import- ance of the former operation. But having for some years past been satisfled that amputation admits of being performed immediately above the knee, so as to provide a stump fully more convenient for the patient than when it is of greater length, I think this method should in general be preferred when practicable. In a letter lately received from my friend and former pupil. Dr. Charles Campbell of Jamaica, he says,— “ It is admirably adapted to the cases of chronic ulcer of the leg, so common among the negroes, in which the skin and cel- lular tissue become enormously hypertrophoid, and the muscles undergo fatty degeneration. In such cases, a good flap is 0