28 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. Acting upon the same princii)le, I lately operated upon a lady whose hand had the metacarpal bone of her thumb dis- located into the palm of the hand, where its carpal extremity formed a projecting knob. In this state she had remained for eighteen years, the thumb being bent back, so as to be unable to co-operate with the fingers, which were consequently of little use. Having exposed the head of the bone, and detached it by cutting pliers, Ifound no difficulty in placing the thumb in its proper position, where it remains, presenting a perfectly natural appearance, and gradually regaining mobility. The wound healed without any trouble. BURSAL SWELLING OF THE WRIST AND PALM OF THE HAND. The bursal sheaths, which accompany the flexor tendons of the fingers from the fore-arm into the hand, are liable to thickening of their texture, with distension, from effusion of fluid and tlio formation of moveable bodies, apparently com- posed of indurated lymph. Although this condition does not materially differ from that of other bursal sacs, which, when so deranged, yield without much difficulty to remedial treat- ment, it has proved peculiarly obstinate under the means of remedy formerly in use, and indeed was regarded as nearly, if not altogether, incurable. Blisters, and similar applications, produced little or no beneficial effect, and puncturing the tumours where most jirominent in the wrist or palm, aftbrded no permanent advantage, as the woUnds either continued to discharge, or closed without obliteration of the cavity. The last patient treated thus in the Royal Infirmary, died from the protracted local and constitutional disturbance so excited; and this case led me to reflect seriously on the subject, in order to discover the cause of obstinacy, and devise a safer remedy. The only peculiarity that I could discover, was the constric- tion caused by the annular ligament, above or below which the opening had always been made, and which might, perhaps so interfere with the healing process, as to occasion the obsti- nacy in question. In this view of the matter, it appeared that the proper site for an incision was at and through the ligament- ous arch itself. I took the earliest opportunity of trying the