127 BLOOD-VESSELS. Varix. Varlx consists in a dilatation and tliickening of the veins, which become at the same time elongated, and thus constitute a tortuous swelling. It occasions deformity, weakness of the part concerned, by impeding the circulation, and uneasy sensations from the same cause. It also renders the vein liable to clu'onic inflammation, ul- ceration, and hemorrhage. The saphena, spennatic, and hemor- rhoidal veins are most liable to the disease. It seldom appears in the limbs before matimity, but occurs in the other situations which have been mentioned at a much more early age. Tall stature, and largeness of the veins, predispose to the disease; constipation, pregnancy, hepatic derangement, and sedentary occupations, favoiu* its actual conunencement The treatment of vai’ix consists in obviating the exciting causes, for which pimpose the bowels ought to be kept open, the testicle ought to be suspended, and the leg ought to he supported with a bandage or laced stocking. The horizontal posture ought to be preferred, and the erect one avoided. When the vein inflames, it ought to be treated according to the rules already explained; the symptoms ai’e almost always subacute or chronic, and local reme- dies merely are required. When it bleeds, pressime must be ap- plied. When ulceration occiu's in connection with it, which most frequently happens in the case of varix of the saphena, and afiects the inner side of the leg a little above the ankle, the surgeon should be guided in his practice, by the indications of indolent or irritated action which the ulcer may exhibit If there appears not to be any obstacle to the cure on either of these accounts, he may simply use the black wash and a bandage, under wliich cicafriza- tion is in general speecbly accomplished. In order to efiect a radical cure of varix, it has been proposed to obliterate the vessel above the diseased part, so as to take off the dilating effect of a superincumbent column of blood, and tliis has been done in various ways. The ligatiue, which had been long be- fore tried and rejected on account of the danger attending its use, was recommended by Sir Everard Home, and on his aiithority tried rather extensively, but with such troublesome and even fatal consequences, as effectually prevented it from being employed in future. Mr Brodie revived a still older method, viz. obliterating the vein by incision. Instead of cutting out the varicose portion, wliich was the ancient practice, he merely divided the vessel, using a narrow knife, and making a small punctm*e of the skin. The