308 riUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. nal ami internal membranes. The great objection to this ingenious operation is the risk of irritation, and tearing asunder of the edges of the wound by erection of the organ, as in this case the contrac- tion, consequent upon cicatrization of the extensive ulcerated sur- face that remains, must inevibibly lead to reproduction of the phy- mosis. The best operation, on the whole, seems to consist in cut- ting oft* a circular ring-like portion from the extremity of the pre- puce, drawing back the loose external skin, then slitting the internal membrane as far back as the neck of the glans, separating the cut edges so as to bring them into a straight line, and lastly, stitch- ing them to the circumference of the skin. The temporary form of this disease requires soothing measures, to allay the inflammation on which it immediately depends. Kest, warm fomentations, and if the symptoms are very acute, general depletion, together wdth leeches or scarifications, are the most ef- fectual mciins for this purpose. If sores exist, they must be treated according to the principles already explained; and the operation for phymosis ought not to be performed to bring them into view, even though the contraction may have existed in a permanent form previous to their production. In this case the prepuce ought to be restored to its ordinary state before being laid open, as the cure will thus be completed in a few days instead of weeks, which would probably be required if the incision were made during the diseased condition of the parts. Nevertheless, if the sores prove very ob- stinate or irritable, this inconvenience must be encountered; but a careful and patient trial should always in the first instance be given to those means that arc calculated to supersede the necessity of an operation. When the phymosis depends iipon, or is con- nected with warts, the prepuce should without delay be slit open, as these excrescences cannot be removed so long as it remains con- tracted. It sometimes happens, in consequence of phymosis being jissociatcd with an ulcerated state of the respective surfaces of the glans and j)repucc, that adhesion takes place between them. At- tempts have been made to remedy this preternatural connection by dissection and careful interposition of dressings; but this pro- cedure, which is extremely painful, hardly docs any good, as the strong tendency to contract during cicatrization reduces the parts nearly to the same state in which they were previously to the ope- ration. In such cases, however, it is found advantageous to slit open the prepuce as far as it is not adherent to the glans.