BUAIN. 427 aiicl the brain is in some measure relieved from pressure by the aperture that has been formed in the bone. Fractures of the cranium would l)e of very little consequence, were it not on account of their connection with injui’y of the or- gans which it contains. In reference to this, they may be conve- niently divided into Fissures, Depressions, and Punctures. A Fissure, as the name implies, is merely a solution of conti- nuity in the bone, without any material displacement of the edges of the fracture. It is caused by diffused force acting directly, or transmitted to a disffint part of the cranium by the intermediate portion remaining entire, and conducting it where the strength is less able to resist. The base of the cranium is generally the part broken in the latter way, or by contre-coiip, as it is called: and the fissure usually extends through the cuneiform process of the occi- pital bone, transversely or obliquely backwards. Bleeding from the ear often accompanies, though it does not necessiirily proceed fi’ora a fissure of this kind. Fissures, as might be expected from the mode of their ])rodiiction, are in general followed either by speedy death, or by violent inflammation of the cerebral substance and membranes. These bad consequences were attributed by tlie old surgeons to the split of the bone allowing noxious transuda- tions from without inwai’ds, and their practice consisted in sawing away witli the trepan, as far ;is they possibly coidd, all trace of the injured bone. In the more sound pathology of the present day, fissures are regarded as quite innocent, so far as regards their own effects,—but as affording ground of unfavourable prognosis, by showing that the skull has been sidyectcd to a great degree of con- cussion. They are, however, seldom known to exist until after death, since no one now thinks of searching for them, as was the custom formerly. Fractures with depression resiilt from the operation of forces acting on a somewhat extensive surface which gives way before them. The contents of the cranium arc consequently not much shaken ; and as the depressed portion presents its smooth side to the membranes, there is comparatively little risk of inflammation being excited in them. It has been already explained, in regard to compression, that it is not considered right in modern surgery to interfere by operation with such fractures, unless the symptoms de- noting compression of the brain shoidd be well marked, and per- sist alter a moderate period, during which proper measures are em- ployed, for promoting the accommodation of tlie (U’gan to the alte-