PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 108 severe operation to apply the ligature,* it would probably be bet- ter to enlarge the wound, if necessary, introduce graduated coui- prcsscs, and support the limb with a bandage applied from the toes u})wards. Femoral, Inguinal, and Iliac Aneurism. Aneurism sometimes affects the femoral artery just before it piisses through the sheath of the triceps, in which case the vessel ought to be tied above the crossing of the sartorius, as has been described for popliteal aneurism : or if the aneurism is of the false kind, and the result of a recent punctured w-ound, especially if there be any reason to suspect the existence of a communication with the vein, the old operation may be performed; as there will be no rea- son to deem the arterial coats unsound, and the vessel lies favour- ably for the purpose. A tommiquet having been applied, the ca- vity is to be laid open, the fluid and coagulable blood sponged out, and the orifice being detected, two ligatures must be tied, one above and the other below' the injured part. But if the case is of some stancbng, it w'ill be safer to perform the ordinary operation. I did so lately with perfect success. The cbsease not unfrcqucntly appears at the groin, being seated in the common femoral artery above its bifurcation,—and then con- stitutes a tumour, which fills more or less completely the triangii- lar hollow that naturally exists at this part of the thigh, and is apt to be mistaken for a chronic abscess. The only effectual remedy is ligature of the external iliac; and ]Mr Abernethy had the merit of executing this bold attempt for the first time, (1804,) having previously tied the artery in another case on account of hemorrhage, (1796.) Both the patients who were the sid)jects of these operations died; but his next case (1806,) w'tis more fortunate. Mr Freer of Birmingham, much al)out the same time, but rather earlier, metwith complete success. Since then, the ligature of the external iliac has been practised so frequently and successfidly that it is now' regarded as an ordinary proceeding. The operation consists in making an oj)ening through the al)- dominal jjarietes above Poupart s ligament, pushing aside the peri- toneum, and then tying the artery wdiich is thus brought into view, or at all events within reach of the aneurism-needle. The inci- sion for this jnirpose ought to run nearly parallel with Poiqiart’^ ligament, but slightly diverging from it in proceeding upwards, so * Guthrif, Medico-Cliirurg. Trans. \’ol. vii.