A1U303IEN. 323 glands also occasionally exist along with a hernia, and render its diagnosis by examination extremely difficult, and even sometimes impracticable. In all cases of doubt, when other means fail in af- fording relief, it is the duty of tlie surgeon to cut down upon the swelling, and ascertain its nature. The symptoms of femoral are the same as those of inguinal hernia. But it is observed, that the bad consequences of strangulation are particularly severe and raj)id in their progress, which is no doubt to be ascribed to the small size of the protruded portion of intestine, and the extreme tightness of the stricture. The treatment of femoral hernia is to be conducted on the same principles which have been fully explained above. If it is reduci- ble, a truss should be carefully worn afterwards ; and it is here even more necessary than in obviating the predisposition to inguinal rup- ture to fit the bandage properly. The cushion should be more con- vex, and it may be requisite to prevent its displacement upwards by an additional strap passing round the thigh. When incarce- rated, it should be subjected to the measures that favour reduction; and if it resists, must be prevented as much as possible from in- creasing by the compression of a suspensory bag. It may be ob- served, that femoral hernia is rarely met with in this state. Lastly, in case of strangulation, the taxis, together with its subsidiary means, if necessary, must be had recourse to without delay, so that no time may be lost in dividing the stricture, if this should prove the only i-esource. In performing the operation it is generally better, on account of the smallness of the tumour, and thickness of the superjacent parts, to make, instead of a simple incision, one in the figure of the letter T. The transverse part of it should be as high as the neck of the swelling, that is, close to Poupart’s ligament, and is most readily effected by lifting up a fold of the skin, together with as much as possible of the parts below that can be separated from the sao, and running a knife through it with the back turned towards the sac. The surgeon may then cut .safely from the centre of this incision downwards, to the .same depth with it. He next lays aside the two small fla])s thus formed, and proceeds to expose tlie sac, by raising and dividing \viththe forceps and knife the layers of condensed cel- lular subshmee which cover it. If glands come in the way, they must be dissected off the hernial tumour; and when the sac is ajj- proached, the operator should be particularly careful to elevate the layer he wishes to divide at the fundus or most projecting part of