rRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 196 ful agents must be employed locally, such as the red oxide of mer- cury, or nitrate of silver; and if the patient’s system seems to re- quire it, an alterative course of mercury, or iodine, should be pre- scribed. Counter-irritation, such as that effected by the actual cautery, is sometimes useful, and ought certainly to be tried, if the disease is attended with much pain. When the ulcer of the bone resists all means of cure, it constitutes what is called Caries. Tlie distinguishing character of caries is the same as that of cancerous ulcers in the soft parts, viz. obstinacy of the disease. The local symptoms vary considerably as to the quantity and quality of the discharge, the degree of pain, and the appearance of the ori- fice. The matter is generally thin and fetid, but sometimes pos- sesses all the properties of perfect pus ; the pain for the most part is gnawing and incessant, but often is hardly perceptible, or ex- tremely severe. The orifice is usually small and callous, but oc- casionally exhibits large and flabby granulations. The disease has for the most part remissions more or less complete, and of consi- derable duration, in which the pain and discharge nearly or alto- gether cease, and the ulcer seems to be on the point of healing, or ac- tually becomes covered with a cicatrix, which, however, is always thin and soft. But these amendments are only partial and temporary, being alw’ays followed by relapse, and there is no natural limit to the dm-a- tion of the disease except the life of the patient, who, after months, or even many years of suffering, becomes finally exhausted, either by the cai'ies itself, or some other disorder wdiich the irritation produced by the caries has excited. \VTien a carious bone has been mace- rated, the diseased part is found excavated and rough, the cancel- lated texture being remarkably spicular, white, and brittle, so as to resemble a spongy bone which has been exposed to the action of fire. The surface thus affected is often of considerable extent, though frequently very small, even in cases of old standing, but the disease seldom reaches to a considerable depth. The field of the disease seems to be determined by the primary inflammation, and after being thus established, has little or no tendency to become larger. Around the carious part there is always an effusion of new osseous matter in the form of spines or tubercles, extending to a considerable distance, and greatly increasing the thickness of the bone. Tliis new mass, wliich is no doubt produced in consequence of the irritation of the disease, like that formed to reunite fractures and supply the place of exfoliations, is characterized by compact- ness and smoothness when minutely examined, though on super-