121 BLOOD-VESSELS. completely embraced in two ligatures, notliing more is necessary than to pass a needle carrying a double thread from one side of the biise to the other, and then tie the two halves as tightly as possible. It frequently happens, from the extent or form of the nsevus, that four ligatiu’es are required, and then two needles should be employ- ed,—one being passed through the base, but not carried farther, until the other conveys its thread fjiirly through, by which means any risk of cutting the ligatures by the sharp edge of the second needle is avoided. In this case the tying of the threads, though facilitated by the morbid sirnfacc being di\Tided into smaller portions for in- clusion, is rendered complicated and troublesome by their numbers, as well as the circumstance that any two cannot be rendered secure until they are tied on both sides, whence it is necessary that, while one of the knots is made, the other ends of the threads must be either held or tied at the same time by an assistant. The ligatures should be tied in what is called the surgeon’s knot, that is, by having the ends crossed hvice, w'hich prevents slipping until the fastening is made good. If still more ligatures are required, they must be introduced and secured on the same princij)le. Thus in a case of large pendidous nmvus, occupying nearly the whole of one side of the face, I employed upwards of twenty. On such occasions, the best way of proceeding is to pass successive portions of a long thread again and again by means of a needle with an eye in its point, and fixed in a handle. Mr Liston has recommended, that, in appljnng ligatures for tlie removal of erectile tumours, the integuments covering them shoidd be divided by a crucial incision, and reflected so as to let the dis- eased structure alone be removed, in order to hasten the process, and save the sound skin,—a modification of the operation very de- serving of adoption in cases admitting of its application. In a case of this disease in an infant, where the tmnom* was large and bleeding, Mr IVardroj), in order to save the life of the patient from immediate danger, tied the carotid artery ; and with success. He was induced to follow this course by the unfortunate result of an attempt to cut out the najvus in a similar case, where the child died during the operation.* It would probably be safer practice, in such circumstances, to apj)ly ligatures. The vascidar excrescences which are met with on the inner side of the verge of the anus, hold a middle place between aneiu’ism by anastomosis and nmvus. They bleed or even throw out a jet of * Wardrop, Med -Chirurg. Trans. Vol. ix. p. 203.