rniNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 418 the sac, the disease, thougli retarded for a time, would, in all pro- bability, soon recur,—for the sac does not exist alone, but in as- sociation with many others of a smaller size, which possess the same nature, and may consequently serve tis the germ of a future swell- ing. If the method of extraction should ever be attempted, it must be confined to those cases in which the tumour has not at- tained a very large size, and is still not adherent to the perito- neum. Injections and setons, again, are applicable only where the sac has adhered to the parietes of tlie abdomen, so as to prevent ef- fusion on the surface of the peritoneum, and diminish the risk of inflammation. The Ovaries are subject to enlargements of a solid kind, which not only occasion inconvenience by their size and weight, but are generally the seat of painful sensations. The structure of these tumours is generally of a complicated kind, displaying, when ex- posed by a section, the characters of vascular, fibrous, cystic, and medullary sarcoma^ in variable proportion and distinctness. The disease is sometimes rapid in its progress, but usually slow, and often exists for years before giving much trouble. After attain- ing a certain extent, it sometimes remains stationary, and the pa- tient becoming habituated to its presence, suffers comparatively lit- tle inconvenience. Iodine, leeches, and other means calculated to promote absorption or allay irritation, are employed in such cases, but with hardly any perceptible advanhige; and all that can be done by external measures, whether local or general, seems to be to retard the morbid process through the -effect of diet and regi- men. Excitement of every kind ought to be avoided,—the se- cretions ought to be carefully-maintained, and if any local means are used, they ought to be of a soothing kind, such as Avarm fo- mentations. The inefScacy of medicine, in remedying tumours of the ovaries, has led to the trial of surgical operations for their removal. The obvious objections to such a proposal arc, 1. the uncertainty that must always attend the diagnosis of the disease, which is often very closely simulated by distension of the bowels, thickening of the omentum, enlargement of the liver, and growths from the uterus; 2. the impossibility of ascertaining before the abdomen is laid open, whether or not the connections of the tumour allow of its removal without the infliction of a morbil wound ; 3. the danger of the ope- ration even in the most favourable circumstances; and, 4. the diffi- culty of knowing how long the patient may live if the disease is 3