165 BONES. others wait a few days until the tension and engorgement of the limb subside. The great advantage contended for is the abridge- ment of confinement, since the patient, so soon as the bandages be- come dry and firm, may quit his bed without danger of displacing the broken surfaces. On the otlier hand, it may be stated, that the process of dressing is not only tedious and requiring great nicety in its execution, but, imless he be carefully watched, must expose the patient to tlie risk of mortification or other bad consequences, from alterations in the size of the limb occurring subsequently to its ad- justment, On the latter accomit especially tliis mode of treatment seems most suitable in hosintal practice; and here again, as the pa- tients have no object but a speedy recovery, there does not appear to be any benefit derived from treating them propped up in chairs instead of being allowed to lie quietly in their beds. Compound Fractures. The wound which constitutes the distinguishing character of compound fractures occasions a most important difference in re- spect to the danger, and difficulty of cm*e attending them. There is apt to be from this source violent inflammation and fever, termi- nating in profuse suppimation or gangrene, or death wthout any remarkable local change, merely from the effects of violent consti- tutional disturbance. These consequences used to be ascribed to the admission of air, but are now referred with more reason to the inflammation of an extensive wmmd implicating important and ir- ritable tissues; for unless the orifice of the cavity heals by the first intention, its surface must necessiirily inflame as the first step to granulation. The great object in treating such injm’ies is conse- quently to obtain immediate union, and thus convert them into sim- ple fractures. If the bone projects through the w'ound, and cannot be readily replaced, a portion ought to be removed from its extremity by the saw or pliers sufficient for allowng this to be done. To prevent irritation, which is so adverse to adhesion, the hones ought to be carefully set as soon as possible; and to keep down infl^imatory action, clotlis wet with cold water should be assiduously applied, until there is no longer any feim of it, or until it actually com- mences. With the same view, the patient must be depleted accord- ing to his strengh, and confined to the most strict antiphlogistic regimen. Should inflammation come on, fomentations and poul- tices must be substituted for the cold applictitions, Bleeding is to