MORTIFICATION. 31 Causes of Mortification. The causes of mortification, or circumstances which induce in- flammation to terminate in this way, may be referred to weakness, or defective powers of action;—excessive irritability, or disi)Osition to act;—and excessive irritation, or excitement to act mahiess.—l:\i(i different tissues possess different powers of ac- tion. The tendons, and shafts of the hones are very apt to die when inflamed—the cellular substance is less so—the skin still less and the coats of the arteries least of all. The weakness which predisjioses to mortification may also depend on general debility 'of the system. In the advanced stage of fevers the slightest irritations are apt to occasion sloughing. In weakly children, exhausted still farther by disease, this effect is of course more certainly produced; whence blisters are dangerous applications in such circumstances. Bad or defective food, and especially the use of unsound rye, when subject to the morbid condition named Ergot, causes such an un- healthy state of the system, that the slightest local irritation, or even inflammation occurring spontaneously, leads to extensive sloughing of the extremities. A part merely of the body may be rendered weaker than usual, so as to be more prone to mortification, and this in various ways. When the principal artery of a limb is tied, there is no longer suf- ficient strength for caiTying on the usual actions—the weakened part seems to make an effort to recover—heat, pain, swelling, with the other symptoms of inflammation, supervene, and, if they are the least excited by external circumstances, soon wear out the dimi- nished power that remains. Some attempts have been made to pro- duce this effect, by impeding the supply of blood intentionally, with the view of destroying morbid growtlis inaccessible to the or- dinary means of removal. The arteries occasionally become ob- structed spontaneously, and tliis probably gives rise to the mortifi- cation of the toes which not unfrequently happens in old people. This Ganr/rena Senilis, as it has been named, was so well de- scribed by Mr Pott, that his name is genex’ally connected with it. The disease is seldom met with before the age of sixty. It occurs more frequently in males than females; and cliiefly affects persons addicted to the pleasures of the table. It is usually preceded by uneasy feelings, sometimes amounting to intense pain in the foot, which, at the same time, is observed to be more or less swelled. A brown or purple spot then shows itself,—^most frequently in the neighbourhood of one of the nails, but it may be in the sole or in- step ; the surroixnding skin becomes red, hot, and distended; the cu-