GENITAL ORGANS. ill (luced by the cachectic state catised by mercury and preceded by hardness, and the residting matter has been discharged, that a fun- gous excrescence protrudes from the opening, presenting a very formidable appearance, which fonnerly led to removal of the organ as affected with malignant disease. Mr Lawrence* pointed out the true nature of these productions, and explained, that they depended not upon the peculiarity of action, but the peculiarity of structure, wliich, being soft and inclosed in a firm capsule, tended to exj^and, when the coverings were perforated so as to permit its doing so. lie ascertained that, if the excrescence were cut off or destroyed by caustic, the remaining surface granulated; and, though it might repeatedly protrude again to a smaller extent, that ultimately, through a repetition of the same means, followed by pressure, it became completely cicatrized. As the hemorrhage, from cutting off the fungus, is very inconsiderable, this method ought to be pre- ferred on account of its quickness, and the comparatively small pain attending it. Extirpation of the Testicle. The mode of removing the testicle, whatever be the circumstances requiring the operation, is to be conducted on the same principles, which may now be explained. The points of most importance in determining these, are, 1. the quantity of integument to be left; 2. the suppression of the bleeding; and .3. the dressing of the wound. When the tumour is large and of rapid growth, the skin cover- ing it is not only put very much upon the stretch, but also borrow- ed from that of the penis and the other testicle; consequently, if the whole of it were taken away, a very large exposed surface would remain. If, on the other hand, none of the integuments, or only a small ])ortion of them, were removed, more especially in a case of slow and long-continued swelling, though the corrugating effects of the contractility of the scrotum, excited by the irritation of the operation, might, in the first instance, make it appear that no in- convenience was likely to result, the redundant integument would certainly, so soon as it became relaxed, afford an ample receptacle for the accumulation of blood or pus, and present a very extensive granulating surface, that must greatly prolong the cure. Keeping these different considerations in view, the surgeon should endeavour to preserve merely enough of the integuments to allow the edges of the wound to be brought together, without either straining or laxity. * Ed. Med. awl Surg. Journal, 180(5.