rRINClPLES or SUllGEHY. 168 complete loss of power over the leg. The treatment is easily con- ducted, since it requmes merely the use of memis for preventing motion ; and a couple of pasteboard or leather splints, secured by the loo])ed bandage, so that they may be relaxed or tightened ac- cording to the degree of swelling, will be found sufficient for the pm’posc, the limb being laid on its onter side, with the knee bent The tibia and fibula are very often broken together. The frac- ture is generally oblique, and seated about the middle, or towards the lower third of the lunb. The two bones seldom give way op- posite to each other, and frequently do so at the distance of several inches. The accident sometimes results from direct violence, but much more usually ^s caused by strains on the shafts of the bones, from twists or falls. There being in this case no longer any re- sistance to the distorting tendency of the weight of the limb, and the retraction of its muscles, there is always much eversion of the foot, and bending of the leg, the upper extremity of the tibia pres- sing npon the skin, or projecting through it, omng to the lower one being pulled upwards and backwards by the gastrocnemii muscles. Various methods are followed in treating this common and im- portant fracture. It is evident that the extended position is very objectionable, from not aftbrding any relaxation to the muscles which produce the distortion, and that, therefore, the knee ought always to be bent. This may be done either by simply laying the limb on its outer side, properly supported with splints, or by plac- ing it on a double inclined plane. It will be fomxd, that, owing to peculiarities in the seat and direction of the fracture, the extremi- ties are retained in apposition more easily, sometimes by one of these modes, sometimes by the other. The most convenient.in- clined plane is that contrived by Mr Macintyre of Newcastle, and improved by Mr Liston. Wlien the fracture occims very near the knee, the upper fragment becomes subject to the acrion of the ex- tensors of the knee, and the straight position, consequently, is re- quired to keep the broken sirnfaces in contact The patella is occasionally fractured, both by the direct effect of external violence, and also, as it appears, by inordinate contraction of the muscles attached to it In the former case, which is rarer than the other, the fracture is generally comminuted, and some- times longitudinal. In the latter it is always transverse, and al- lows the two portions to be widely separated, so that the condyles of the femur can be felt between them. The nature of the acci- 3