PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 470 the direction of it Eitlier the upper or lower punctuin may be selected; but unless they happen to be unusually expanded, it will be proj)er, before attempting the introduction of the probe, to dilate the orifice by means of a common pin, the conical point of which, when rotated, answers very conveniently for the purpose. The probe should first be passed directly inwards, and either up- wards or downwards, accordingly as the lower or upper opening is chosen, until it fairly enters the sac. The direction must then be altered, so as to be parallel with the mesial plane, the convexity of the instrument resting on the eyebrow, and the extremity point- ing downwards and backwards. By gently, but steadily, urging the instrument, alternately pushing or withdrawing a little, it is at length introduced into the nose. By repeating this operation, and using probes of larger size in succession, some relief may be af- forded, but hardly any complete or permanent benefit The in- troduction of probes from the nose into the duct, though very easy in the dead body, is hardly practicable in the living, especially when the entrance to the passage is obstructed. Injections thrown in through the puneta, by means of Anel’s syringe, are of so little avail that they need not be particularly considered. If the disease proves so obstinate and troublesome as to make the patient w'illing to suffer the pain and inconvenience attending the follow'ing operation, it ought to be performed. The object is to remove the obstruction, and ])revent its reproduction. With this view an incision is made into the lacrymal sac, by pushing a sharp-pointed knife into it, immediately below the ligament that extends from the inner commissure of the eyelids to the nasal pro- cess of the maxillary bone. The most convenient instrument for this purpose is represented Plate III. Fig. 5. After the point has been fairly introduced into the sac, by pushing it backwards and inwards, the handle must be raised so as to alter the direction of the blade, and ])ush it downw^ards into the duct. A thick probe should then be passed through the opening, dowm the duct into the nose. The ob- struction having thus been removed, a piece of bougie, or a small me- tallic instrument named a style, is introduced. The style (Plate III. Fig. 6.) may he made of silver, lead, or any other metal not readily oxidized; it is suited to the form of the pas age, and has a broad head to prevent it from descending too far. It should be taken out daily, washed, and replaced. So long as it is worn, the patient is reliev- ed from the inconvenience he formerly suffered, hut when it is with- drawn, the passage is apt to close again. Trials may be made