171 BONES. convenience last mentioned, and also to effect extension by the weight of the body, which is, as it were, suspended from the inj ured tliigh. But, tis has been already observed, the muscles are equally tense when the joints of both the knee and liip are bent, as when they are extended; and effectual extension could hardly be obtain- ed by suspending the body from the knee, without causing injuri- ous and insufferable pressure on the popliteal vessels. The upper portion of the bone too, must be influenced by every motion of the patient’s body, and accordingly the worst cases of retracted and ixn- united femur are met with in persons treated by means of the in- clined plane, by surgeons whose known reputation precludes the objection, that the machine might have been carelessly or unskil- fidly employed. Even granting that its efficiency were equal to that of the long splint, the simplicity and facility of procuring the latter apparatus would render it preferable. Particular circum- stances, however, occasionally occur, which render the inclined plane j)referable, such as the existence of a wound, or rigidity of the knee-joint from previous disease, or the advanced age of the pa- tient, which renders the foot unable to bear pressure, or pecxdiari- ties in the direction of the broken sm’faces, and therefore every sxirgeon ought to be provided with it The thigh-bone is occasionally fractured through one or other of the condyles into the knee-joint, in which case the cure is not only difficult on accoimt of the mobility of the detached portion, but apt to be unsatisfactory, owing to the callus encroaching on the ca- xnty of the joint, so as to impede its motions. The best treatment consists in placing the limb straight, in order that the head of the tibia may by its pressure assist in keeping the condyles even, and applying lateral compresses with a Ixmdage. The bone is much more often fractured through the trochan- ters and neck, in consequence, generally, of falls on the side. In persons beyond the age of sixty, the neck is broken by a slight de- gi’ce of force, and not unfrequently gives way alone, but it often happens also that the trochanters are split, while the neck remains entire, and is driven into the thick mass of bone at its root like a wedge. The symptoms of fracture in both of these situations are pretty much the same; the limb is shortened from one to two inches, the toes are everted by the weight of the limb, and by the ac- tion of the muscles which perform rotiitiou outwards, as their at- tachments to the trochanter major remain, wliile the usual resist- ance to their operation is removed by the fracture. When rota-