JOINTS. 217 violence ])roceedlng from falls on the hand or elbow, or blows on i the shoulder, while the arm is separated from the side, and also, j though rarely, by sudden violent contractions of the pectoralis viajor- and latis^imus dorsi, the limb being in the same position. In some rare cases it has been observed to occur during the epileptic convulsion. The capsvdar ligament is necessarily torn, andjthe head of the hone rests upon the neck of the scapula over the origin of the long head of the triceps. I The symptoms are elongation of the arm, which is stiff and j powerless, projecting considerably from the side, and slightly bent, j both the biceps and triceps being put upon the stretch. The ten- sion of the former muscle generally occasions pretty complete su- pination of the fore-arm; the axillary hollow is Idled up with the head of the humerus; and under the acromion there is a remarka- ble depression instead of the usual convexity of the deltoid, from the absence of the bone. There is pain of the shoulder, numbness of the fingers, and more or less swelling of the whole limb. The reduction may be effected by various methods, but the one which will generally be found the most convenient, is to make the patient sit on a chair, and then having confined the motions of the scapula by means of a folded sheet or tablecloth encircling the chest, and held at its extremities by one or two assistants, to extend the arm horizontally or slightly downwards. The bandage used for pulling, which may he a shawl or skein of worsted, should be fas- tened a little above the elbow. To perform the coaptation, the sur- geon puts his foot on the chair, and his knee in the patient’s axilla, then places one hand on the acromion, and with the other seizes the fore-arm. While the extension is gradually increased, he rotates the limb outwards, and endeavours to raise the head of the bone into its place, by elevating his knee at the same time that he de- presses the shoulder. When the operation is completed, a sudden snap, or more frequently a dull grating, is perceived, and all the symptoms of the dislocation disappear. I Another method which may be employed when the surgeon lias no assistant, is to place his heel in the axilla of the patient, while both he and the operator lie horizontally in oj)posite directions; i then perform extension by pulling the hand of the affected ai-m ; . and finally effect coaptation by bending the limb inwards over the ! fulcrum, which is afforded by the foot. This metliod has the advan- I toge of being very efficient, but labours under the objection of its ' inconvenience and unseemliness. The reason of its efficiency is the