EAR. 499 ment, as a mixture of axunge with a small proportion of oil of doves, or any other of a similar kind. Inflamviution and Suppwation of the Ear. Inflammation of the ear is generally induced by exposure to cold. It is attended with pain, more or less acute, and either confined to the ear, or extending through the head. Pressure or motion of the auricle increases the patient’s distress, and there is constitutional disturbance in proportion to the severity of the local complaint The attack terminates in resolution or suppuration, the matter in the hitter case being effused, either exteriorly to the membrane of the tympanum, or within it, so as to cause pressure and absorption, for obtaining vent to escjipe. In the former case there is merely a running, which admits of em’e without loss of hearing; but, in the latter, there is aj)t to be caries of the temporal bone, and a perma- nent dischiuge, with partial or complete deafness. The treatment of the inflammatory state requires bleeding, ca- thartics, warm fomentations, and the antiphlogistic regimen. The chronic discharge of matter demands the injection of metallic wash- es, and blistering on the back of the neck. And when the bones are affected, tbe same means may be employed, but with an un- favourable prognosis. Recovery from this state sometimes occurs; but more frequently the disease proves obstinate, and occasionally fatal, by- leading to a morbid condition of the brain, particularly the formation of abscesses in its substance. Polypus of the Ear. Polypous excrescences arc occasionally met with growing from the cavity of the ear, and protruding either through the external aperture, or an opening caused by absorption in the posterior wall of the canal. They usually possess a florid colour, and vascular structure. They are attended with a thin muco-purulent discharge, and seem to agree in their nature with the growths which spring from the lining membrane of the prepuce and the conjunctiva, in consequence of inflammation tei*minating in suppuration. The best mode of treating them is to pull away with forceps as much as possible of their substance, and then touch the remaining sur- face with nitrate of silver, afterwards using injections of sulphate of zinc, or other metallic solutions, to correct the morbid action of the membranes.