225 JOINTS. oonsequence of fracture through either malleolus, as has been iioticed under the proper head, yet dislocation happens so rarely by itself, that it is hardly necessary to mention the possibility of its occurrence. This dislocation can be only backwai’ds or for- wards, and is reduced chiefly by coaptation. Astragalus.—When a person falls from a height on his heel, the violence thus sustained not being diffused over a number of articu- lations, as when he alights on his toes, is transmitted to the astra- galus with such intensity, as sometimes to eject it from its place, turn it upside down, and make it protrude under the integuments of the’instep, or force its way through them. This dislocation does not admit of reduction, and the bone, when so displaced, must be removed. If an opening has not been caused by the accident in the first instance, one ought to be made without delay, in order to an- ticipate and prevent the violent inflammation that will otherwise occur, as the precursor of ulceration or slougliing, by which the loose astragalus must make its escape. Laicerjaic.—The lower jaw cannot be dislocated so long as it is closed, since the condyles are then firmly secured in the glenoid cavities. But when opened so as to bring them forwards on the anterior convex part of the articular surfaces, it may be readily dis- placed by a lateral impulse, or even by excessive action of the mus- cles. One or both of the condyles then glide forwards over the root of the zygomatic process; and sinking into the hollow on the opposite side, retain the jaw fixed and opened in a painful, miseem- ly, but most characteristic position. The reduction of this dislocation is extremely easy, since, if a fulcrum be placed at the back part of the grinding surface, the an- terior portion of the jaw' affords a powerful lever for replacing the deranged condyle or condyles. The best fulcrum for this purpose consists of one or both thumbs, accordingly as the dislocation is single or double, protected from the action of the teeth by being wrapped in the corners of a handkerchief or towel. After the re- duction the patient ought for some time to avoid opening his mouth wide, and exposing his jaw to the circumstances which favour a recurrence of the accident, as a considerable predisposition to it remains. Clavicle.—The sternal extremity of the clavicle is sometimes dislocated forwards, in consequence of falls on the shoulder and arm. The dis])lacemcnt is readily recognized by the swelling aris- ing fi’om the projecting end of the bone and superjacent portion of I’