1.39 EXTERNAL INJURIES. Franklin, that an animal may be restored to its usual actions even after its whole body has been frozen. * In treating frost-bite, the great object should be to moderate the reaction, since, if it proves excessive, mortification readily oc- curs, both because the part is weak, and because its irritability being consequently increased, the inflammation is apt to be intense. The best method is to use friction without any external heat, or even to effect it through a cold medium, such as that of snow, in order to promote the return of circulation, and at the same time guard against excitement If inflammation comes on, the part ought to be soothed with poultices, or anodyne and astringent ap- plications, such as warm solutions of acetate of lead with opium; the tinctime of soap and opium, &c. Local bleeding would increase the weakness, and consequently render the diseased action more unmanageable; but general depletion will be proper if the patient is plethoric. Should mortification ensue, the best dressing will be a soft poultice until the sloughs separate. Bums.—When a part is exposed to liigher temperatures than usual, its actions are increased. It becomes red, more or less swelled, and hot. If the heat applied is moderate, or of short du- ration, these symptoms disappear when it is removed; but when it is intense, or longer continued, the redness caused by it is bright and permanent, and there is a painful sensation of burning. The part is then said to be burned, while in the former case it was merely excited. The inflammation thus induced generally tcnni- nates in effusion of serum from the surface of the cutis, wduch de- taches the cuticle, and elevates it into blisters. When the heat is still more intense or prolonged, it destroys the life of the pai-t The cuticle is then detached and thrown into irregular folds or wreaths, exposing the subjacent cutis discoloured and dry. When the heat operates through the mecbum of fluids, its effects are named Scalds. Burns and scalds are always painful,—often long in hetding, owing to the feeble action of the resvdting ulcer, which is seated in parts that have been more or less injured by the heat, —and sometimes fatal by the shock to which they subject the con- stitution, by the profuse suppuration which they occasion, or by ex- citing inflammation of some internal parts. In treating bums, it is necessary to consider whether the injimy is so severe as to destroy the vitality of the part affected, or merely sufficient to induce inflammation of it. In the latter case cold aj)- ])lications afford great relief, and if cmj)loyed immediately after the * tranklin's Journey to the North Coast of America, p. 248.