6 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. not always accompany inflammation, and is usually proportioned to the violence of the local symptoms. Its type or character also va- ries, as already mentioned, according to the part or patient affect- ed. The pulse may be small, feeble, and irregular or intermit- tent,—the tongue brown, smooth, and glazed,—the coimtenance dark-coloured, contracted and anxious. These varieties in the s}Tnptoms of fever demand great attention, as indications of the sejit and degree of the local disorder, and as guides for directing the remedial measures. The state of the blood, also, in this condition, requires particular consideration. When blood is taken from one laboiming imder inflammatory fever, instead of coagidating as xisual into a homogeneous red tre- mulous mass, it throws up to the surface a clear transparent fluid, which coagulates into an opaque bxxff-colovu*ed, tough, membran- ous-looking crust, which is named the huffy coat It is usually about a quarter of an inch thick, and presents a concave sirnface, owing apparently to preserving its original extent, wliile the subjacent part of the clot contracts during the separation of the serum. Whatever hastens the coagulation of the blood tends to prevent the formation of the huffy coat Thus weakness of the in- dividual,—smallness in the quantity of blood abstracted,—exjwsure of it to an extensive surface of dead matter,—and its being abstracted in a small stream or by drops, all oppose the appearance in ques- tion. The formation of the huffy coat has therefore been suppos- ed to depend merely upon slowness of coagulation, allowing the red particles to descend, and leave the fibrinous portion pure; but there is certainly something more than this concerned in tlie ])ro- cess, anoe the tough yellow crust imder consideration differs ma- terially in appearance from the fibrinous mass wliich is obtained by wasliing away the colouring matter of healthy coagulated blood, and when the disposition to its production is strong, it takes place notwitlistanding the most rapid coagulation; while blood drawn from an animal in health may be retained for a long time fluid, without showing any trace of it. The bufly coat, though very ge- nerally, is not invariably, observed diuing inflammatory fever; and it also appears occasionally, though no inflammation exists. Preg- nancy, and violent agitation, whether of body or mind, are apt to cause its formation. It is difficult to conceive how the constituent proportion of fibrin can be actually increased, as has been suppos- ed ; but there seems little reason to doubt that there is a preterua- 4