40 principi.es oe surgerv. prevents it from exciting a more violent or injurious action. Its effects generally clisap])ear as soon as the cause that led to them is removed; if they do not, the same means which promote the dis- persion of oedema are required, namely, pressure, with blistering, and stimulating ointments, lijTnph is also effused on the simfaces of wounds, and sometimes unites them, so as to remedy at once the solution of continuity. This process is named Union by the first Intention, The steps by M'hich it is accomplished, and the circumstances that oppose and favour its completion, are extremely important Every wound is attended with more or less bleeding; and as it gradually ceases, an exudation of serum takes place, which is readi- ly recognized by the faint-coloured stain it makes on the dressings. From eight to twelve hours after the wound is inflicted, less or more according to its extent, all this discharge ceases, when Ijinph is effused from the cut surfaces, and if they are in contact, or near- ly so, glues them together—becoming gradually organized, and completing the union fi'om forty-eight to seventy-two hours after the injury has been sustained. The union, though now perfect, so far as regards appearance and feeling, does not ])0ssess much mechanical strength ; and if the lips of the wound be torn asunder, they are found to have a coating of coagulable lympli on each of the respective surfaces, precisely similar to that which is efiused upon serous membranes as a consequence of inflammation. In- flammation, therefore, used to be considered essential to this mode of union, which was said to he efiected by Adlaesive Inflammation. It is now ascertained that inflammation, so far from being essential to the process, is subversive of it A certain degree of excitement is not incompatible; but whenever it goes so far as to occasion pain, or much swelling and redness, union by the first intention is fhis- trated : and the way is led to another process of reparation hereaf- ter to be described, viz. Granulation. Inflammation being thus preventive of primary union, and the interposition of any foreign substance, or the separation of the cut surfaces, beyond the extent to w'hich they can be glued together by the thin layer of lymph effused fiom each, being of course no less adverse to the process, it follows that'the plan which used to be followed in dressing wounds should be regarded as equally injudi- cious and injurious. It consisted in closing them immediately, or soon after their infliction, and retaining their lips in accurate con- tact by adhesive plasters, or other means, pledgets of ointment and