BLOOD-VESSELS, 119 recorded in wliich the morbid erectile tissue was no less distinctly composed of dilated and convoluted vessels,* Under the head of Morbid Erectile Tissue may be ranged, 1, Anem-ism by anastomosis ; 2, Naevus or longing mark; 3, The sub- cutaneous naevus, as it has been called and well described by Mr Wardrop ;f 4, Also excrescences of the mucous membrane at the verge of the anus, which possess the structure and bleeding dis- position of the erectile tissue. The three first of these are, with hardly any exception, congenital. The last one is never congenital, and seldom occurs before middle age, Aneimism by anastomosis is always seated in the cellidar textime lying under the skin, which is more or less elevated, and in gene- ral slightly discoloured, having a blue or purple shade observable in it The swelling throbs sjTachronously with the heart, becomes smaller when compressed, and more turgid when the circulation through the arteries is excited, or that through the veins impeded. At birth it is usually small, frequently hardly perceptible, and some- times does not enlarge until puberty. After becoming active it generally increases in size, at length opens, and bleeds from time to time, in the female observing the menstrual periods in its ten- dency to do so. Its most common situations are the head, hands, and feet. The best remedy for tliis disease is excision ; and in per- forming the operation it is proper to cut quickly and completely beyond the morbid structure. The ligature also may be employed, care being taken to embrace the whole extent of the disease—since a troublesome or even fatal hemorrhage may otherwise result. The arteries leading to the diseased part becoming much enlarged and tortuous, have repeatedly suggested the trial of attempting to afford relief by tying them, but in no case with success, Ligatrue of the arterial trunks, as the carotid in aneurism by anastomosis of the face or scalp, has also, for the most part, proved unavailing, though in some instances the result proved more satisfactory. IMessrs Tra- vers and Dalry'mple tied the carotid with success in two cases of swelling in the orbit, which seemed to be of this nature but, as these cases were not of congenital origin, they must be regarded as ques- tionable exceptions to the general rule. • Pelletan, Clinique Chinirgicale, T. ii. p. 59.—MacLachlan, Glasgow Med. Journal, No. 2.—Wardrop, Lancet, No. 211.—Author, Ed. Med. and Surg. Jour nal. No. 98. f Med. Chinirg. Trans. Vol. ix. p, 200. t Ibid. Vols. ii. and vi.