204 PKINCIPLES or SURGERY. Rickets used to be ascribed to the operation of a morbid acid humour pervading the system, and the remedy consequently con- sisted in liberally supplying the patient with alkaline and earthy preparations, in order to neutralize this acidity, and replace the defective earth of the bones, wliich was supposed to have been re- ' moved by its chemical agency. The disease is now referred, more consistently with scientific pathology, simply to disorder of the nu- tritive action of the osseous tissue, and the means employed to cor- rect it are merely those which tend to strengthen the system in ge- neral, while every prudent precaution is taken to prevent the bones from suffering distortion, so long as they remain exposed to it by their softness and flexibility. With these objects in view, the patient ought to be frequently put into a warm bath, and every day have the whole surface of the body subjected to friction. He should be warmly clothed, and, if possible, removed to a dry situation sheltered from the cold. His diet must be moderate, easily digestible, and nourishing; and he shoTild abstain from all medicine, except what is required to main- tain or excite the intestinal secretions. WTiile the bones are in a yielding state, exercise in the erect posture may cause curvature and distortion, especially of the bones composing the trimk and in- ferior extremities; the patient ought, therefore, to be debarred from walking, running, &c. and encouraged to creep and roll upon the floor or on the ground in the open air. Should the limbs un- fortunately have been bent through neglect or injudicious treat- ment, they may often be straightened by the gentle and continued use of splints or other apparatus. Mollities and Fragilitas Ossiutn. By Mollities Ossium or Malacosteon is understood a general disease of the bones, in which they become extremely soft, much more so than in rickets, so that in its advanced stag-es there hardly remains any trace of the osseous texture, and the periosteum en- closes merely a yellow or browmish mass of lardy consistence. This affection is attended with excessive and almost incessant pain,—is almost confined to females,—occurs chiefly at the middle period of life, and though often very slow in its progress, advances until the patient tlies. There is no effectual remedy for this dreadful malady, and its treatment consists in the use of means proper for palliating the pa- tient’s sufferings, of which the different ])reparations of opium are