JOINTS. 211) other position without both force and pain. The reduction is easi- ly effected, the extension being made in the direction which the limb retains from the accident In all very recent cases of dislocation of the shoulder, and more especially within an hour or two after the accident, there is a consi- derable chance of effecting reduction by suddenly rotating the arm outwards, and at the same time drawing the elbow backwards, while the operator’s hand in the axilla urges the head of the bone into its place. In such circumstances, therefore, this simple method ought always to be tried in the first instance,—of course without any in- timation to the patient of the intention to do so, which would cer- tainly excite opposing action of his muscles. Elboio-joint.—The elbow-joint is liable to various sorts of dislo- cation, the diagnosis of which is often very difficult, especially as fractures near or through the articular surfaces produce in some respects similar symptoms. There is a difference of opinion as to the comparative frequency of these accidents, and also as to the characters for distinguishing them, with the exception of one dis- location, wliich is certainly the most common and best marked of the whole. This is displacement of both bones of the fore-arm backwards. The articulating extremity of the humerus stretches the biceps and brachiasus internus, occasions a hard tumour at the bend of the arm, and generally causes permanent semiflexion of the limb, though, sometimes, as I have had occasion to see in several instances, the arm is straight The olecranon projects behind far- ther tlian usual, and the triceps is much relaxed. The fore-arm appears shortened, and there is little or no mobility of the elbow. This accident happens from falls on the hand while the arm is bent The reduction is very easily performed by making extension, and then bending the fore-arm, while the surgeon embracing the elbow with his hands so that the fingers rest on the olecranon, and the thumbs on the extremity of the humerus, pushes the displaced bones into their proper position. The radius is liable to he dislocated separately, and may be driven either forwards or backwards. In the latter case the dis- jdacement is so obvious from the tumour M'hich is caused by the head of the bone, that it can hardly be overlooked; but in the former, which is the more common of the two, the nature of the accident is very apt to escape detection until it is too late to afford relief. The symptoms are pain and swelling about the elbow, wliich is