355 PELVIS. tu nour is dense and fibrous, possesses little sensibility, is not dis- posed to any morbid action except its own nutrition, and though the cause of uneasiness by its pressure on the neighbouring parts, is hardly ever itself the scat of much pain. The gland seldom enlarges equally, generally exceeding in one of the lateral lobes, and not unfrcquently sending a round process uj)wards, encroach- ing on the cavity of the bladder, immediately behind its neck. Sir E. Home accounted for this marked limitation of the growth to one part of the gland, by attributing it to the existence of a distinct middle lobe of the pros- tate ; but in a healthy state of the part it is difficult to discern any trace of such a structure. Whatever be the true explana- tion of the fact, it is an import- ant one in several points of view. Enlargement of the pros- tate, whether partial or gene- ral, does not necessarily or usually diminish the width of the urethra, but alters the di- rection of the canal so as to impede more or less the pas- sage of the urine. When the whole gland swells, the neck of the bladder is of course elevated in a proportional degi’ee, and the course of the urethra consequently ren- dered not only longer but more curved than natural. If one of the la- teral lobes is more enlarged than the other, it gives the canal a bend to one side, and if the tumour is confined to the upper surface of the gland, within the orifice of the bladder, though the urethra cannot suffer any change,, the excretion of urine may be consider- ably impeded. The symptoms of enlarged prostate are, 1. a feeling of weight and uneasiness in the lower part of the pelvis; 2. pain and diffi- culty in evacuating the bowels, with, it has been said, a flattened form of the feces when passed in a solid consistence; 3. frequent and slow micturition; 4. a copious discharge of mucus with the urine, at the bottom of which it remains separate, forming a glairy mass that adheres to the vessel when the water is poured out; 5. a fetid ammoniacal smell of the urine. These symptoms, though in general always distinguishable, are seldom very well marked.