270 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. Fig. 4, and of a size suited to the age of the patient. It is well also to be provided with forcc})S and ligatures, in case of meeting with any arteries unusually large, or irregularly distributed. The jjatient should be seated on a chair with his head bent back, and rest- ed on the breast of an assistant An incision, about an inch and a half long, is made as nearly as possible in the mesial line. The space between the sterno-hyoid muscles is recognized by its wdiite appear- ance, and opened with the knife. The operator then feels for the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, or the trachea, and cuts down upon its rings, the surface of which having been ex])osed, serves as a guide for bringing into view what farther space is re- (piired for the opening, which should be about half an inch long ; and is readily effected by pushing in the knife, while an assistant holds aside the muscles wdth a hook in each hand. Before wound- ing the trachea it is proper to wait a little until the arterial bleeding has nearly ceased, or has been suppressed by ligature, shoidd such means be required, which is seldom the case. But as the obstructed respiration, which renders the operation necessjiry, impedes the venous blood in returning to the heart, the surgeon should not delay opening the trachea on account of dark-coloured bleed- ing. A violent access of coughing follows the introduction of the tube, which is useful in ejecting the accuimdated mucus, and any blood that may have entered; but the patient soon becomes accustomed to the unusual irritation, and respiration is performed without any uneasiness. The viscid tenacious mucus, which is usually secreted very copiously in cases requiring the operation, is apt to obstruct the tube, whence the necessity of employing one at first of a larger size than would be sufficient merely to admit the air, and of clearing it from time to time by means of a probe . wrapped round with lint The tube must be retained in its place by means of tapes passed through rings at its mouth, and tied behind the neck. It should be taken out and washed daily, as long as there continues to be occiision for its use; and it will be prudent to cover the orifice with gauze, to j)reveut the entrance of injurious matters from without. Foreign bodies are very seldom admitted through the rima fjht- fidis; but as the accident, when it docs occur, is attended with very distressing and dangerous consequences, great care ought to be taken lest it be overlooked. When it is learned that the })a- tient, while in his ordinary health, in ])crforming the action of de- glutition, or, if a child, in playing with some small foreign body in