60 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERV. vates the skin, so as to obtain room for its reception; but so soon as vent is afforded for its escape, all the parts that have been ])res- sed aside resume their natural situation, tlie cavity of the abscess is thus at once greatly diminished, and the contracting effect of the granidating action which ensues upon its surface completes its ob- literation. Instead of waiting for the natural evacuation of abscesses, it is usual to make an artificial opening, in order to hasten the cure. This ought not to be done in general until the fluctuation is dis- tinct, especially if the abscess be seated in a glandular texture, as the process of reparation is otherwise apt to be rendered slow and imperfect. On the other hand, if the abscess is left entirely to it- self, the skin frequently becomes so thin and impoverished at the j)ai’t where it points, that it docs not possess sufficient power of ac- tion for xmiting mth the subjacent surface; the matter also may extend over a greater space; and the patient suffers much more pain than he would have done if the abscess had been opened. When the patient is in great suffering; when there is reason to be- lieve that the matter is forming under some thick fascia, or other covering that resists its progress to the surface; or when the matter appears to be (bffused in the cellular substance, it is improper to wait for pointing, and it is impossible to make an opening too early. When the suppuration hikes place in a gland, or any morbid struc- ture, it is proper to let the abscess either open naturally, or at all events be most completely formed before interfering with it. In other cases, so soon as the fluctuation can be distinctly perceived and the abscess points, the opening should be effected. After the matter begins to form, and before it is evacuated, poul- tices and fomentations are applied, as they are believed to hasten the process of suppmation. Abscesses may be opened either by the knife or caustic. The for- mer is infinitely less painful and more certain. The best instrument for the pm*pose is either a straight or curved sharp-pointed bistoury, Plate I. fig. 4, Plate III. fig. 5, which ans\vers much better than the old fasliioned abscess lancet, an instrument shaped like the common lancet, but of a larger size. The narrow blade of the bistonry allows the point to enter the cavity with little or no pain, and then being push- ed tlirough the skin a second time from within outwards, at the jiart to which it is desired the incision should extend, quickly completes the aperture. If the parts to bo divided are too tliick for proceeding in this way, the knife may be carried through them by a sawing motion to the requisite extent. It is always right to make a large opening;