63 SUPPURATTOX. [porcal functions; but in the liectic state those of the stomach, brain, rand many other parts remain unafFectecL Listcad of Hectic Fever, t therefore, it woidd perhaps be better to use the expression of Hec- ttic Irritation. The effect of this irritation is to weaken the system imore and more; at length fever is really induced—the patient f shivers—his tongue becomes foul—he loses his appetite—and spee- i (lily sinks under the disease. A method of treating chronic abscesses was introduced by Mr . Abeniethy, which has generally been regarded a great improvement, lit consisted in drawing off at first, only part of the contents by 1 means of a trocar, allowing the wound to heal by the first intention, i and then repeating the puncture, with the interval of two or three ’ weeks, until the collection was so reduced in size, that the cavity I could be safely laid open and healed from the bottom as an ordi- nary abscess. If the abscess is large, the patient should be confined to bed, and kept quiet for some days previously, and subsequently to the operation; for if these precautions be disregarded, ^even though the wound shoidd heal by the first intention, there will be a risk of inflammation. Care should be taken to prevent the en- trance of air, not because it possesses any power of direct irritation, but because it promotes putrefaction of the remaining matter, and in that way gives rise to the most violent distimbance. If there is reason to suppose that the abscess is connected wth any incurable disease in the bones or elsewhere, it ought not to be opened, unless the cause of pain or some other serious inconvenience, since doing so could only accelerate the patient’s fate, and bring the surgical art into discredit Such abscesses often exist for years without suffering apparently any change, or giving the patient much in- convenience, but upon being opened speedily prove fatal. j Sinus and Fistula. I When an abscess is seated in parts, the action of which is de- I fective owing to local or general causes, the cavity that remains I after its evacuation does not contract completely so as to close, but ! continues to secrete a discharge, which is generally thin and co- ll pious, and then constitutes what is called a Sinus. The surface, ' in course of time, becomes condensed and smooth, so as to resemble : a mucous membrane rather than the granulated coycring of an ul- i If the discharge be copious, or any source of irritation ! exist, lymph is effused around the cavity so as to thicken its walls, and render them almost of cartilaginous hardness. In such a con-