PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 4G4 completed. As the irritation produced is generally very inconsi- derable, this is of little consequence. If a large fragment of the lens, or the whole of it, escapes into the anterior chamber, though solution may take ])lace, there is great risk of such severe or conti- nued irritation tis may require its extraction through an opening cut into the cornea. In relation to the choice of these different methods of operating, it may be observed, 1. that extraction and couching are confined to cases in which the cataract is of firm consistence: 2. that breakiu" up, though it has been applied to hard cataracts, is most advanta- geous in those that are soft or fluid; 3. that extraction is ill suited to cases iu which the cornea is small or flat, or very prominent— the eye has a tendency to roll, and the patient is unsteady, as in infants or children—or the cornea is very tough, and little disposed to unite by the first intention, as in old people; 4. that keratonyxis, as being the easiest mode, is best calculated for infants and chil- dren ; and, 5. that the best procedure for general practice is, to introduce a curved needle through the sclerotic, depress the lens, if it is found to be firm, and break it up if the consistence proves too soft for this. ]SIali(jnant Diseases of the Eychall. Cancer rarely originates in the eye, though it occasionally ex- tends to it from the neighbouring parts. But medullary sarcoma occurs in it more frequently than in any other part of the body, except the bones, mamma, and testicle. Children are chiefly .sub- ject to its attack, but adidts occasionally sufl’er from it. The retina is generally the part first affected, but in the j)rogress of the dis- ease all the textures entering into the formation of the eyeball be- come involved. The first symptoms arc blindness, and a greenish or dusky-red colour of the pupil. Then the eye j)rotrudes, some- times remaining entire, at other times ulcerating, and allowing a fungus to issue. The patient becomes weak and emaciated, loses appetite, and acquires the greenish-yellow complexion characteris- tic of malignant action. The disease varies in the time rcijuircd for its course from months to years, being usually most ra})id in young, and slow in adult persons, but always terminates fatally. The only remedy that affords any chance of relief, is excision of the eye before the morbid process has advanced so far as to ren- der the removal of the whole tumour impracticable, and even then the prospect of a jiermanent cure is extremely unfavoural)le, since 3