PRINCIPLES OP SURGERY. 30 But I have never encountered any sueli result when a small trocar was employed for the purpose. HERNIA. Internal Hernia. By internal hernia is understood a constriction of the bowels caused either by fibrous bands resulting from adhesion of the neighbouring parts, as by the neck of a peritoneal sac lying within the abdomen. In the former of these conditions opera- tive interference, though occasionally attempted, does not seem to be warrantable on account of the obscurity which must pre- vent the diagnosis from ever being quite certain, the difficulty of disentangling the intestine—often a tedious and operose jiro- cess, even in the dead body—and the extreme danger resulting from such exposure, handling, and cutting of the viscera. Even in circumstances apparently the most desperate, the chance of spontaneous recovery must exceed that of escape from the eftects of an operation attended with so much risk, and so little pro- mise of success. In the other form of the disease, which may more correctly be denominated Intenial Hernia, the case is very different, the seat of constriction being the neck of a sac, which may be distinctly recognised and is safely accessible. This sao is fonned by protrusion of the peritoneum through one of the apertures of the abdominal parietes, which constitute the ordinary seat of hernia, more especially that of the inguinal canal, and produces the effect in question by having been reduced into the abdo- ra6n together with the portion of intestine contained in it. In one case that came under my care, the sac had not been pro- truded for many months previous to the symptoms of strangula- tion, and therefore may perhaps have for some time existed in an empty state. But in general the reduction takes place during the period of strangulation, and is effected by external pressure employed for the taxis. The diagnosis is therefore rendered distinct by the symptoms persisting after the tumour disap- pears, and may usually be confirmed by carefully examining the seat of protrusion where a sense of fulness or resistance is per- ceived when pressure is made over the internal tumour.