principi.es of surgery. 252 the leg, it could not prove so serviceable in progressive motion as in the straight direction, to which, from use, both it and the patient had become habituated. In dividing the tendons, instruments of various shapes and sizes have been employed. The knife, represented in Plate I. Fig. 1, is, perhaps, on the whole, the most convenient A small narrow-bladcd bistoury, either straight or curved, also answers very well, and in operating on infants I have found an iris scalpel very useful. An assistant should hold the foot so as to stretch moderately the tendons about to be cut, and then the operator, pinching up the integuments lying over it with the thumb and fore-finger of his left hand, introduces the knife with its flat edge towards him be- tween the skin thus elevated and the tendon. The integuments being now left free, the cutting edge is directed iijjon the tendon, and by a slight sawing motion, aided with pressime on the back of the blade, readily completes the section. A sudden snap, or absence of previous tension, distinctly denotes when this has been effected. A piece of dry lint is ^then to be applied on the puncture; and to insure healing of the wound it is prudent to afford the support of a ]jretty long bandage with the view of pre- venting motion. At the end of two or three days the foot may be placed in the boot ]>ro- vided for it The best appara- tus of this kind is here repre- sented. It is merely a strong boot made of bend leather moulded into the requisite form while moist—and may be em- ployed with great advantage as a substitute for the more compli- cated machines in common use. As to the situation of tendons for division, the circumstances oi the case must of course determine. In imrus, the tibialis avti- cus or posticus, and in vahjus, the perond are most frccpicntly in fault. But when the tendo AchilUs is felt particularly tense, it Jimht to be divided; and in taVqics or pes cqvinus, nothing more is remiired than this. Indeed, favourable cases of the last-mentioned kind arc remedied almost at once by this operation, without the as-