EXTERNAL INJURIES. 133 to notice, that the presence of a wound in a bruised part may pre- vent any discoloration by allowing the blood to escape. Woumls. By Wounds are understood solutions of continuity in the surface of the body effected by violence. They are divided according to the injury which the parts concerned sustain in addition to the woimd, and also the form which it possesses, into Incised, Punctured, and Contused, In incised wounds, there is merely a solution of continuity inflicted by a cutting instrument, without any other injimy of the part con- cerned, and the superficial extent of the aperture bears a large pro- portion to its depth- The great object in treating such wounds is to induce union by the first intention, and the general observations, which have been already made on that process, suggest the practice to be followed with this view. All foreign matters should be re- moved from between the cut surfaces ; blood and serum should be prevented from collecting, by avoiding early and close dressing, and the actions of the part should be kept within proper bounds by suit- able local and general means, more particularly cold applications and low diet, with perfect quiet of the part aflTected. Wherever pressure is sufficient to keep the cut edges in contact, it ought to be preferred for the purj>ose. Plasters are apt to approximate the lips of the woimd merely, and, so far from pressing the deeper parts of the wound together, rather render them more separable by relax- ing the superjacent integuments. Stitches introduced at the dis- tance of about an inch from each other generally answer better ; but, if the edges of the wound require tq be kept in very nice con- tact, they must be introduced more closely, or the twisted sutime, as it is called, may be employed- This consists of needles or pins passed through the edges of the wound, at the distance of from one to three-quarters of an inch, according to circumstances, being inserted most closely where the parts concerned arc thin- nest A silk thread, such as that employed for stitches or liga- times, is then twisted round each needle in succession in the figure of 8, so as to draw the cut surfaces together. The needles may be withdrawn! on the third day, but the recent union ought not to be subjected to any sfrain for some time af- terwards. Tliis kind of suture was formerly much practised, but is now almost confined to the treatment of wounds of the lips and cheeks, and even here may be abandoned with advantage in favour of the simple