PRINCIPLES OF SUUOERY. 452 0(1 to tlie corners or angles of the eyes, pai-ticularly the inner one. In obstinate cases of chronic inflammation, when no permanent source of irritation can be discovered to exist, advantage is Ire- quently derived from eflFecting counter-irritation by blistering the back of the neck, or introducing a seton into it Consequences of Injlammation of the Conjunctixm. A purulent discharge from the surface of the inflamed membrane occasionally occurs, and constitutes what has been named Purulent Ophthalmy. The inflammation, though probably commencing in the conjunctiva, and chiefly observable in it, generally affects the other tissues of the eye, and is apt to prove very destructive, when allowed to pursue its course, by causing morbid adhesions, opaci- ties, and ulcerations of the organ. It most frequently occurs in infants soon after birth, and in young children. i\Iany explana- tions have been offered to account for its origin in the former of these, such as the existence of gonorrhosal or leucorrhoeal disease in the mother at the time of birth; but careful observation of all the circumstances concerned, leaves little doubt that the exciting causes are merely those which conduce to common inflammation, operating on a weakly or bad constitution. It is of great conse- quence to watch the eyes of children, and especially those of very tender age, lest inflammation shoidd commence and proceed with- out being discovered until too late. The eyelids are apt to be glued together in the first instance, and though they afterwards be- come tumid, with distended veins, and of a livid hue, attention may still not be directed to the seat of the disease; and when at length the pent up matter gushes out, the organ is too frequently found irremediably injured. If the patient is seen during the inflammatory stage that pre- cedes* the purulent discharge, which usually docs not extend be- yond a day or two, a leech ought to be applied at one or both of the angles of the eyes, according to the age and strength of the child, ^^^u’m fomentations, and a frequent separation of the edges of the eyelids arc proj)er at the same time, due attention being be- stowed on the secretions of the digestive organs. So long as symj)- toms of acute irritation continue, the same soothing system should be pursued; but when the disease begins to assume a chronic form, the solution of nitrate of silver ought to be employed; and in the still more advanced stage, if it prove obstinate, a succession of