459 EYE. lation of a dark-coloured fluid, which sometimes contains scales of cholesterine. The sclerotic and conjunctiva are protruded, and be- coming thin in consequence of the pressure from within, allow the colour of the fluid to appear through them. The use of the eye is sometimes retained, but frequently lost. If the swelling is small, it need not be interfered with,—^if large, it may be remedied by re- peated punctures. Liflammation of the Retina. In some cases of inflammation of the eye, the Retina seems to be principally, if not solely, affected. The patient complains of in- tense deep-seated pain, accompanied with the false perception of sparks or flashes of fire, while the power of vision is greatly impair- ed, or altogether suspended. In some cases this defect proves per- manent, but in others it disappears, together with the inflammatory symptoms. The most efficient treatment consists in copious deple- tion, both general and local, with active measures for promoting the intestinal secretions. Cataract. The lens and its capsule are liable, together or separately, to opacity, which more or less impedes vision, and constitutes the dis- ease named Cataract. The substance of the lens, when thus af- fected, is sometimes firmer than usual, at other times softer, or even fluid, according to which varieties witaract is divided into hard, soft, and milky. Opacity of the capsule is seated in the anterior layer; when it exists alone, tliere is usually no lens, in consequence either of congenital defect, or removal by operation. Lenticular cataract, when solid, is generally of most firm consistence at the centre. Its colour is very various, from dark brown to white when examined through the cornea, but does not exliibit so much differ- ence when removed from the eye, being for the most part greyish- yellow in the firm kind, and bluish-white in the soft or milky ca- taract The last mentioned appears larger, and as if occupying the posterior chamber more fully than usual. Capsular cataract has a greyish mottled appearance, and seems as if flattened. The causes of cataract are involved in great obscurity. It is sometimes congenital, and then consists either in opacity of the an- terior part of the capsule, with atrophy of the lens, or in a soft ciudy state of the latter. It frequently occurs at an advanced pe- riod of life, after the age of fifty, particularly in persons having