BLOOD-VESSELS. 105 tliigh,—the attempt at which, by calling the muscles into action, renders their outline more palpable,—then stretching the integuments not transversely, but in tlie long direction of the limb, he should mtikc an incision from two to three inches long, according to the fiitness of the patient, having its lower extremity situated over the angle of union of the two muscles above-mentioned, and running upwards at a nearly equal distance from them respective edges. Separating the lips of the wound he should expose and divide the fascia, after which, making an assistant hold aside the edge of the Sartorius, he Avill expose the sheath of the vessels, and, lifting it up with the dissecting forceps, open it sufficiently to let the coats of the artery be seen distinctly. It is here that the principal nicety of the operation lies, since too much exposure of the vessel, especially by tearing, or the use of blunt instruments, incurs the risk of secondary hemorrhage; and if the arterial coat be not sufficiently divided, there is no less danger of injuring the vein in the passage of the needle. The artery should be exposed by-means of the dissect- ing forceps and knife, just as in a careful dissection on the dead body. The opening in the sheath need not exceed in length three- eighths of an inch ; but the cellular or fatty substance immediately enveloping the vessel in variable quantity must be raised in succes- sive portions, and divided, until the surface of the artery appears perfectly white and distinct The aneurism-needle previously threaded is then to be passed round the artery, which will be easily effected if it has been ade- quately exposed, and the edge of the opening in the sheath is held fiside with forceps, to let the point of the instrument enter and es- cape. In doing this it is necessixry to avoid the vein which lies be- low, and the nerve that runs on the outer or fibular side of the ar- tery. On one occasion in the living body, and in another in the dead, I found a large vein, nearly half the size of the femoral, Ijing anterior to the artery. So soon as the ligature appears, it must be disengaged from the eye of the needle by the forceps or a hook, and pulled out of the wound while the instrument is withdrawn in the opposite direction. The operator having then satisfied himself that enough and notliing more is included, should tie the ligatime tightly in what sailors call the reef-not, which is done by crossing the ends of the thread first one'way and then the other. After the ligature is tied, one of the ends should be cut away to favour union of the sides of the wound. The needle, though introduced with care and dexterity, sometimes occasions a pretty copious flow of blood, which