rRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 250 with very imperfect intermissions of relaxation. A permanent de- formity or unusual position of part of the body is thus caused, which becomes increased in degi’ee from time to time owing to paroxysms of contraction. These paroxysms are extremely variable in their frequency and duration. They often occur without any assign- able cause, but are usually induced or aggravated by irritations, whether of body or mind. The muscles affected in course of time enlarge, and project more than is ruitural; they are also the seat of uneasy sensations, and are })ainful on pressure. This morbid ac- tion of the muscles is most frequently met with in the neck, espe- cially in the stemo-mastoid. It then occasions one kind of wry- neck, the head being tuimed habitually to the opposite side. The treatment of this disease consists in removing all sources of irritation, whether dfrect or indirect, that may be discovered to be in operation. The state of the various secretions ought to be care- fully inquired into, and rectified if deranged. If there are sym]>- toms of local irritation, leeches, warm fomentations, and anodyne liniments should be applied over the seat of the disease; and if tliese means fail, blistei’s and acupuncturation may be tried. Single muscles, or groups of muscles, are more frequently met wtli in the opposite state to that which has just been described, their power of contracting being much diminished or altogether lost. The muscles of the face and fore-arm are most subject to this affection, and they suffer from it variously, both as to degree and extent. At one time it is the flexors alone, at another the ex- tensors, and in some cases both together, which lose the power of action. The cause of this condition is sometimes a blow, when the cure is usually tedious and imperfect All that can be done is to use fomenUitions, frictions, and persevering attempts to exer- cise the muscles. The causes more frequently concerned are ex- posure to cold and long-continued pressure, and both of these often seem to be conjoined in producing the effect; as the most common history of the disease is, that the patient fell tislecp in the open air, or in some unusual situation, and rested his head on one ann. In such cases, the cure is in general readily accomplished by apj)lying a succession of blisters along the course of the affected muscles. Contractions of Muscle— Cluh-foot— M 'nj-neck— Strahism ?/a In addition to that temporary or spasmodic contraction which has been already mentioned, the muscles are liable to a permanent vhortenins of their natural length, necessarily producing deformity.