454 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. coma. Nebula is a very common consequence of conjunctival in- flammation, especially in children. It occasions various degrees of opacity, according to which, and also its situation in regard to the pupil, it interferes more or less with vision. The remedy con- sists in the introduction of stimulating applications, which pro- mote absorption. Of these the solution of nitrate of silver is the most efficient Albugo and leucoma hardly admit of removal. The treatment just mentioned sometimes produces diminution of the opacity, and is ecrtainly preferable to the more severe mea- sures which have been proposed, such as excision or puncturing, since they not only do no good, but generally increase the evil. Pterygium is a fleshy-looking growth of firm consistence, and flat ti'iangular form. It is seated in the conjunctival covering of the sclerotic or cornea, always beginning in the former, and in its progress tending to encroach over the latter. It generally grows at the internal angle, the apex is always directed towards the pu- pil ; and the transverse diameter of the eye passes through the centre of its base. It occasions uneasiness, by obstructing the movement of the eyelids; and, if allowed to pursue its coimse on the cornea, may ultimately impede vision, by covering the pupil. The local means which are proper for subduing chronic inflam- mation, sometimes check the progress of pterygiiim ; but the radi- cal remedy of it consists in removal. This is readily efTected by- seizing the growth with a hook or forceps, pulling it outwards, and cutting it entirely away with scissors curved to one side. If it be so large as to lead to an apprehension of inconvenience from the contraction caused by the resulting cicatrix,—a portion mere- ly of the disease, abolit a line or two broad, and running trans- versely across it, may be removed. The vessels are thus com- pletely interrupted, and the remainder of the excrescence gradu- ally shrinks away. A graiiular state of the conjunctiva lining the eyelids, is occa- sionally a consequence of chronic inflammation, particularly when it is associated with purulent discharge. The surface, instead of being soft and smooth, becomes covered with small elevated points or tubercles; and the irritation which is necessarily occasioned by the roughness thus produced, maintains the inflammatory symp- toms, so that a reaction is instituted, which renders the ordinary treatment ineffectual. Sometimes, instead of this slight elevation and irregularity of the surface, the conjunctiva is extended into large fleshy-looking excrescences, which roll out upon the cheek