38 PRTXCIPJ.ES OF SURGERY, means rarely occurs without either any previous excitement of the pai’t, or obstruction of the venous circulation that can be observed, and seems to depend on weakness alone. This may happen in both situations, but most frequently occurs in the subcutaneous cellular texture of the inferior extremities, as may be seen in the course of most chronic diseases which terminate fatally. The means of preventing serous effusion is, of course, to obviate as far as possible the circiimstances which occasion it Inflamma- tion should be treated on the principles which have been explained to make it tenninate in resolution. If the circulation of the veins is not free, the impeding cause ought to be removed. If weakness threatens to occasion the effusion, it must be remedied by means suited to the case, and especially by the use of bandaging, together with the horizontal posture. The cure of effusion is sometimes accomplished by simply punc- turing the skin, or sac containing the fluid, and allowing it to flow out. But very generally the vessels from which the effusion has proceeded continue their action, so as to renew and maintain it ' after such evacuation. It is therefore necessary to change the action of the vessels, and this is done by various means. ]\Iere ex- ternal pressm-e sometimes suffices, and is more ])owcrfid when pre- ceded by the application of blisters or stimulating ointments and lotions, particularly those containing mercury and iodine, to the neighboiu'ing skin. When signs of excited action continue along with the effusion, general and local bleeding may be proj>er, toge- ther with applications of a soothing natm-e; and on the principle of countcr-iiTitation or metastasis, diuretics, diaphoretics, and pur- | gatives are administered. It is generally observed that the eftiised fluid is more reailily absorbed when it is seated in the cellular sub- stiince than when it occiq)ies a serous bag; provided the exciting cause has been removed. When the dropsical effusion is of small extent and superficially situated, particular operations are occasion- ally performed for its radical cure, as will be cxj)hiincd hereafter under the titles of Bursa? Mucosae, and Hydrocele. Effusion of Fihrine, When fihrine is effused, it presents the appearance of the huffy coat, and is named Coagidable Lymj)h. This effusion ha))pens most frequently in the same situations as the serous one, but also occurs on the mucous surfaces, and in the interstices of every tissue. i