70 rilINCIPLES OF SURGERY. or glairy, and their colour is of every kind, though most frequently yellow or purple. Different cells of the same tiunour often have dissimilar contents. Sometimes the tumour is entirely composed of cysts, at other times a variable proportion of solid substance is interposed betwneen them, and this possesses the characters of fi- brous sarcoma. This Cystic Sarcoma, as it is called, tends to increase, and does not appear to have any limits to the size which it may attain, as may be seen in the case of ovarian dropsy, which depends upon the gre<it development of a cystic structure in the ovary. It is not prone to degeneration, and does not occasion almost any imeasiness, except by its bulk, causing defonnity, impeding the movements of the patient, or pressing injuriously on important organs. It occurs most frequently in glandular structiu:es, especially the ovaries, tes- ticles, and mamma, but is also occasionally observed under the in- tegiunents of the trunk, more particidarly the upper part of it, and rarely on the limbs. It is recognized by its imperfect fluctuation and colour. The only treatment that this growth admits of with advantage is excision, which is effected with very difierent degrees of facility, ac- cording to circumshinccs. If the tumour be seated in a texture of limited extent, such as the mamma, it may be very readily remov- ed. But if it commences simply in the cellular texture, it is apt to spread so widely, and contract such adhesions, as to render an ef- fectual operation very difficult, or even impracticablo. In such si- tuations, it is therefore the duty of the surgeon to press upon the patient the propriety of early extirpation. Carcinomatoses Sarcoma. Tlie morbid structure which is designated Carcinoma, is distin- guished by its great firmness, and almost cartilaginous hardness, whence it iised to be, and still is, occasionally called Scirrhus. The dense texture which characterizes carcinoma does not con- stitute a uniform homogeneous mass, but has numerous interstices which are filled with a yellow or brownish-grey friable substance, and it is generally extended in the form of diverging bands which s})read into the neighbourhood. When the disease occurs in an organ of limited extent, as a lymphatic gland, it does not tend to diffuse itself beyond the confines of the part concerned, the struc- ture of which it afl’ects more uniformly than when seated in a tis- BXie less distinctly bounded. As the disease proceexls, however, it