BLOOD-VESSELS. 107 The posterior tibial may be exposed by making an incision along the inner margin of the tibia, commencing opposite to the inser- tion of the sartorius, and rnnning three or four inches do^vnwards. The knee being bent, and the foot extended in order to relax the gastrocnemius, the origin of the soleus from the tibia should be brought into view and divided, when the operator may pass his finger down to the artery, which lies somewhat more than a finger’s breadth from the edge of the tibia, immediately under the fascia, that covers the deep-seated muscles, and then either apply liga- tures or a succession of graduated compresses. This artery may be tied very easily at the ankle. An incision about a couple of inches long should be made between the inner ankle and tendo Achillis, rather nearer the former than the latter; two layers of fascia, which are the continuations of the superficial one lying im- mediately under the integuments, and the deep one that covers the blood-vessels, nerves, and deep-seated muscles, with more or less intermediate cellular substance and fat, must next be divided, and then the artery is found lying with its two vencs comites on the ti- bial side of the nerve. The plantar arteries are frequently cut, and would be tied with great difficulty, owing to the cellular and fatty textures which cover them being so thick and dense,, espe- cially when infiltrated with blood; but it is fortunately unnecessary to secure them in this way, as pressure properly applied is always sufficient for the purpose. The lint ought to rest directly upon the orifice of the bleeding vessel, and therefore, as has already been remarked, the wound shoidd be dilated, if not wide enough to ad- mit of its introduction. The anterior tibial artery is liable to wounds at various parts of its course, and may be tied throughout almost the whole of it. This is not required below the ankle, as pressure is equally efficient, and much more convenient 5 but it may be necessary to apply ligatures higher than this. The vessel is not apt to be wounded farther up than the middle of the leg, M^here the thickness of the muscles pro- tects it As it runs close to the interosseous ligament, and along the fibular side of the tibialis anticus, it may be always easily found by making an incision about two inches and a-half along, at such distance from the outer margin of the tibia as will allow room for this muscle, and then cutting down in the first muscular interstice. , ihe peroneal artery is so securely defended by the various parts which surround it on all sides, that it can hardly be injured without a very serious wound of the leg; and in the rare case of its hemor- rhage requiring particular attention, instead of performing a very