71 DISEASED NUTRITION. at last breaks through tliis obstacle, and then spreads as has been already described. The carcinomatous action extends itself in a different way also, namely, along the absorbent vessels and glands of the part originally affected. It would seem in general to take this course more really than to pass directly from one tissue to an- other. As to the mode in which the morbid action is transmitted along the absorbents, there exists a difference of opinion, some thinking that matter must be conveyed through the vessels, others that the mere irritation of the disease, propagated along the coats of the IjTiiphatics, is sufficient to account for the sympathetic affection of the parts in question. The fact is certain that glands, in the course of the absorbents leading from a carcinomatous tumour, are often thoroughly tainted, though the original mass remains solid, and contains no fluid matter in its interstices. Carcinoma occims most frequently in glandular or secreting struc- tures, and the mamma, lips, skin, tongue, stomach, and uterus, may be mentioned as its most common seats. It seldom commences in people below middle age, and from forty to fifty may be mentioned as its favoiu-ite time of attack; but it is occasionally observed in persons much younger than this, even in those who are not more than hventy or thirty. I am not aware of its having been ever met with before puberty. The predisposition of parts to carcinoma- tous action seems to be increased by their suffering chronic en- largement and induratioil; ard the disease is generally called into existence by some irritation either direct or indirect. Of the for- mer, blows and bruises may be mentioned as those most frequent- ly concerned, and of the latter, suppression of habitual secretions. The cessatioia of the menstrual discharge, though a natural event, almost always occasions more or less disturbance of the system, and this occurring at a period of life when, other things being equal, the tendency to carcinomatous action seems to be strongest, has been thought to exert great influence in exciting the disease. The disposition to the morbid action is sometimes so strong, that it be- gins without any local cause, and is then apt to occur in more parts of the body tlian one. The patient usually betrays the uuhe^thy tendency by a peculiar greenish-yellow complexion, and anxious expression of countenance. The characteristic symptoms of carcinoma are hardness and pain. The hardness exceeds that of any natural texture, except bone and cartilage. The pain is usually of a lancinating or darting kind, not