PRINCiri.ES OF SURGERY. 13b' feet is proportioned to the importance of the injurj', tlie weakness of the patient, and Ins apprehension of danger. Tlie bad consequences of gun-shot wounds were formerly as- cribed to the poisonous agency of the gun-powder; and upon tliis belief was founded the cruel practice of scarifying or excising tlie wounded surfaces, and dressing them witli scalding oils. Pare in- troduced a milder practice, which he was led to, in the first instance, by necessity, and was afterwards confirmed in by experience and reasoning on the subject He used merely unctuous ajiplications, and with such success, that his example was soon generally follow- ed. The treatment of gun-shot wounds, though so far improved, still continued unnecessarily severe, since the scarification, which was formerly practised to remove the poison, still remained in use, to prevent tension and inflammation from the fistulous shape of the wound. John Hunter exploded this system of dilatation, as it was called, by showing that it did not prevent the effects in question, and was performed soon nnough if delayed until they actually ap- peared. The best application at first is a pledget of oiled lint, placed on the wound, and covered with cold wet clotlis. Should inflammation supervene, free dilatation, including any fascia that has been wounded and lies within reach, fomentations, and poultices, become proper ; when the slouglis are dctaclied, pressure, with the usual lotions, must be ciirefully employed, as there are apt to be extensive sinuses; and if these have not a suflGiciently dependent opening, it ought to be afforded by the knife. When the hall, or any other foreign matter introduced into the w'ound, is not carried through, but remains, it ought to be remov- ed, if this can be done without any very serious cutting or search- ing ; for, though it is no doubt true that such extraneous subshm- ces often acquire a fibrous cyst, and cause no disagreeable symp- toms, they more frequently excite inflammation, which leads to va- rious troublesome consequences, and may do so after lying for a long while without causing disturbance. The finger is the best probe for detecting the ball or other foreign body; and when far- ther search is requisite to find it, the mitine of tlie tissues concern- ed ought to be carefully considered, since the direction of its course is much affected by those of dense and unyielding structure, as the bones, fascia), and even the skin. The velocity of the ball, and tlie position of the body when it entered, ought also to be taken into account. When the injiny is so severe as to render amputation necessarv-.