PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 296 would appear, on the whole, that the prospect of permanent reco- very is not so liopeless as it has been represented, provided the ope- ration be performed only in proper cases, and in an efficient man- ner. Similar diseases arc removed from other parts of the body, as tlie lip, with almost invariable success; but no surgeon thinks of cutting out a cancer of the lip if there be an affection of the glands under the chin; and, in ojierating, he carries his knife wide of the morbid part, and leaves a perfectly sound surface for heal- ing. In excision of the mamma, on the contrary, a diseased state of the axillary glands is often either totally disregarded, or consi- dered no obstacle to the operation, proAaded they admit of remo- val ; and the surgeon frequently cuts close to, or perhaps at some points through, the substance of the tumour. It need not, there- fore, excite any surprise, or lead to distrust in the advantage of the operation, to find that the disease frequently returns. The affec- tion of the glands should be regarded as an objection to the opera- tion, not from presenting an obstacle in the way of its complete per- formance, but rather from affording evidence of a strong tendency in the constitution of the patient to take up the diseased action. The different cases of carcinomatous disease may be divided into, 1. those where an operation is altogether improjier; 2. those where it may be ])erform'ed but with a very unfavourable progno- sis ; and, .3. those where it h{is a chance of proving permanently successful. The first class will include cases in which there are enlarged glands, so seated or connected that they cannot be re- moved,—or where the skin is so extensively diseased that all the morbid portion of it cannot be talien away,—or histly, where there is positive evidence of some other part of tlie body, as the stomach or uterus, being similarly affected, or of some other internal dis- ease of a serious nature, such as dropsical effusion of the chest. The second class comprehends those cases in which the glands are tainted, but within reach,—or in which the disease is in the state of open cancer, or the ])rogress of the morbid process rapid,—or the patient’s appearance unhealthy. And to the third class may he re- ferred those in which the disease has advanced slowly,—feels cir- cumscribed,—is not attended with enlargement of the glands, and exists in a person of tolerably healthy appearance. Should the eom])laint have been distinctly the consequence of local irritation, or the patient be of an age at which the predisposition is ge- nerally not very strong, as above sixty, the prognosis will be still more favourable. In very advanced periods of life, as he-