125 BLOOD-VESSELS. they were almost entirely overlooked,* observed that the veins run- ning near parts which had suffered inflammation and suppuration took on a similar action, and effused pus or lymph, or both, into their canties. Succeeding inquiry has ascertained that this is not a constant, or even very common occurrence; and it is possible that he may have sometimes mistaken the effect for the cause, the abscesses in the Ciises he observed being perhaps the consequence of venous inflammation, and not the origin of it Of all the causes wliich induce inflammation of veins, there is none more certiin than the application of a ligature. It was formerly the custom to tie them without any ceremony ; and there is every reason to believe that many of the fatal results of operations, wliich used to be attri- buted to some obscure cause, such as pccidiarity of constitution, or imwholesomeness of the atmosphere, really proceeded from this source. The danger from ligatures applied to veins was particu- lai’ly insisted upon by l\Ir Travers. | Grenerally speaking, the danger of tying veins is in direct proportion to their magnitude; but death has happened from the ligature or wounds of the saphena below the knee. Immoderate or long-continued distension seems to be the cause of that inflammation of the iliac veins, which is oc- casionally observed in women who have suflfered a severe or pro- tracted accouchement And if, as appears very probable, or rather positively proved, the complaint called phlegmatia dolens, which consists in a painful oetlema of the inferior extremity, depends on obstruction of the iliac veins, in consequence of inflamniation,J this cause of its production must be regarded as one of frequent ope- ration. The inflammation, it is true, may be attributed to irrita- tion propagated from the venous orifices on the inner surface of the uterus; but, if proceeding from this source, would jirobably prove more obstinate and fatal than it is wont to do on such occa- sions. When the wound of a vein does not heal by the first inten- tion, it must of course inflame; and the morbid action thus insti- tuted, is ajit to follow its characteristic tendency to spread. John Hunter showed that many of the bad consequences of venesection, which used to be referred to pricks of the nerves or tendons, really depended on the wound not healing, and the veins inflaming. § It is of great consequence to notice that the tendency to venous inflammation varies with the state of the system; so that while • Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chinirgical Knowledge, Vol. i. p. 16. f Cooper and Travers’s Surgical Essays, i. 227. } Davis, 182a. Med. .Chir. Trans. Vol. xii. p. 419. § Op. et loc. cit.