395 GENITAL ORGANS. priate local treatment, and especially the regulated application of blisters being at the same time employed. Should it fail in afford- ing relief, corrosive sublimate may be administered, in very small doses, such as the eighth, or sixteenth of a grain two or three times a-day, given either solid or in solution, and combined with some anodyne or diaphoretic vehicle. If mercury were never used improperly, the treatment of venereal diseases, both primary and secondary, would be very easy; and as its abuse is every day be- coming less common, there is reason to hope that the fonnidable class of mercurial diseases, on which volumes have been written, and j>articularly ulcers of this origin on the genitals, skin, mouth, and throat, will soon cease to he met with in practice. In regard to them, it will be sufficient to state at present, that time, careful attention to the general health, and for local applications, the ni- trate of silver, sulphate of copper, and the black-wash, are in gene- ral the best remedies, When the obstinacy of the sore is excessive, it may he necessary' to destroy the surface by aiustic potass. Bubo. The irritation of a sore on the genitals, of whatever kind, or wherever situated, especially if aggravated by exercise or intem- perance, is very apt to occasion swelling and inflcimmation of the inguinal glands. The buboes thus produced differ in no respect, so far as regards their treatment, from those which owe their origin to other sources; and an erroneous opinion, that formerly led to the most mischievous consequences, namely, that, when caused by chancres, they were tainted with the syphihtic poison, and re- quired a course of mercury for its removal, is now ha])pily explod- ed. The mercury whicli under this idea used to be constantly prescribed in their treatment, by exciting fever and increasing the irritability of the system, often occasioned the most destructive phagedenic or sloughing effects, and when less obviously injurious, rendered the ulcers that resulted from the buboes extremelv obsti- nate, and sometimes almost incm’ahle. Instead of thus encouraging the in-itation, the object should be to soothe and allay it as much as possible. Whenever the patient begins to feel pain in his groin, he should desist from walking, as- sume the horizontal posture, and foment the parts, two or three times a-day, with warm water. When swelling is perceived, leeches arc usually aj)plied; and certainly almost always with the effi'ct, in the first instance, of lessening the tumour and diminishing the