PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 448 at first, but gradually spreads so as to engage the whole extent usually covered by the nail. The surface is brown and glossy, the discharge excessively fetid, and the pain intense. The nail is formed very imperfectly, and either remains dry, black, and loose- ly adherent, or presents merely a small vestige of its root, which is thick, white, soft, and connected by a broad base with its secreting matrix. The surromiding skin is tense and inflamed, and, in cases of long standing, the texture of the subjacent bone is sometimes greatly expanded. This disease occurs most frequently in children, but is met with at all periods of life, and in the fingers much more frequently than in the toes. It is occasionally referred to local injury, but perhaps always depends on derangement of the general health. After being established, it exists as an independent disease, and seldom, if ever, can be remedied by means that operate on the system at a distance from the part affected. The treatment requires, in the first instance, that the nail should be completely eradicated, then the application of the black-wash, or a solution of arseniate of po- tass ; and, while these means are employed, an alterative course of medicine to improve the patient’s health. If the ulcer resists, it must be touched \vith caustic potass, or extirpated by the knife, two semilunar incisions being made, the one within the other, and meeting at their extremities so as to include the whole extent of the vascular membrane that surrounds the root of the nail,—or amputation may be performed, if the digit is of little use, as when one of the smaller toes is affected. Paronychia, or Whitlow, denotes an acute inflammation of the finger, generally resulting from local irrihition operating on an ir- ritable constitution. The disease is sometimes confined to the soft parts, sometimes engages the tendons or their sheaths, and some- times affects the bones. In all cases the best practice is to make a free incision as soon as possible through the scat of the disease, w'hich is almost invariably on the palmar aspect. When the fibrous tissues slough, the dead parts ought to be carefully withdrawn so soon as they are loose, since their presence acts powerfully in keep- ing up irritation. Leeches, warm fomentations, and poultices, are often productive of great harm in the treatment of paronychia, by diverting attention from the only and essential mode of affording relief—namely, incision. After the parts are freely divided, a poultice may be apjdied for a few days, but not longer, as its re- laxing effect, if continued, proves injurious, and some stimulating