132 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. the same means as those employed to discuss superficial ecchymosis are proper, especially discutient lotions and pressure. Sometimes the clot, greatly contracted and indurated, remains after the serum has been removed, without suffering any farther change. At other times, the serum continues little or not at all diminished, in which case blisters, succeeded by pressure, ought to be used, and if these means fail, the fluid may be drawm off by a trocar. The con- tents of these efifusions are also apt to shift from one part of the body to another, according to the tendency of their weight. Wlien the effusion is large, or the parts about it have been much injured, or the patient is of an irritable habit, the jjarietes of the ca- vity are apt to inflame and convert it into an abscess. Any ten- dency to tliis ought to be allayed or prevented by cold applications; but, so soon as there is reason to believe that matter has actually been formed, vent should be afforded to it and the remaining blood by a free incision ; after which pressure and some stimulating wash will promote contraction and closure of the cavity. The appearance of ecchymosis so'regulai'ly attends the infliction of bruises, that much importance is fi’equently attached to its pre- sence or absence in medico-legal investigations. The discoloration of the skin caused by it must be distinguished fi’oni the Uvor, which generally appears on the dependent parts of the body after life be- comes extinct. This may be readily done by making an incision through the part in question, as the blood in ecchjTnosis will be found coagiilated in the seat of its effusion, while in livor there is merely congestion of the cutis. The time required for ecchymosis shewing itself is also an important point The more superficial the eflFusion is, the more quickly will the discoloration appear—and ac- cording to the difference in this respect, three or foim hours, or as many days, may be necessary. It should be recollected that the ef- fusion and discoloration are two distinct things ; that the former happens immediately after the injury, and may be certainly dis- covered by dissection; but that the latter, though, when present, af- fording evidence of violence hartng been sustained, does not prove by its absence that no eflPusion has taken place. Persons labouring under the disease named Purpura hemorrhagica have often disco- loured marks on the skin resembling those of ecchymosis. Blood may lie effused into the cellular texture, in consequence of violence sushiined soon after death—but in this case it proceeds from rupture of the larger vessels, and is not coagulated. Finally, it is necessaiy 4