MUSCLES. 251 as well as causing inconvenience from restricting motion. Such contractions of the muscles are occasionally congenihil, as in the common case of club-foot, which depends not upon any faidty conformation of the Imnes, but upon a want of due balance in the muscular powers of the limb. In general the foot is turned inwards (Varus); but sometimes, though very nirely, it is found in the op- j posite direction ( V^aU/us). The foot may also be maintained in a I state of extension without any lateral inclination (Pes equinus); but j this condition is hardly met with as a congenital derangement, and i usually occurs in childhood, especially during the period of teething, i or after an attack of the exanthematous diseases to which that age j is liable. 1 Until recent years, the treatment of club-foot, in all its forms, was limited to the employment of various apparatus with the view of counteracting the muscles by mechanical force, and gradually elongating them so as to remedy the distortion. This process was excessively tedious, expensive, and too frequently with every cai'e imperfect in its effect. Hence the number of adults to be seen every- where, especially in the lower ranks of life, retaining the bones of their limbs in a perverted position, until becoming altered in their fonn, they constitute supports for the body of very defective uti- lity, and no less unseemly appearance. A great improvement has been introduced into jjractice by sur- geons of the present day, particularly Stromeyer and Dieffenbach. It consists in dividing the tendons of the contracted muscles, and thus at once removing the gi-and obstacle in the way of treatment which, when this has been done, merely requires such a degree of mechanical support as may compensate for the state of elongation and relaxation in which the ligaments necessarily remain for a time. The sooner the operation for this purpose is performed the better; but it may be undertaken without impropriety so long iis the bones have not suffered such an alteration of form as must render them unfit for assuming their natural position. Until the age of puberty it will hardly ever be found to fiiil if properly conducted, and in many cases, at a much later period, com])lete relief may be afforded. This is more especially the Ciise in simple extension of the foot (jpes equinus, or pointed toe), which is remedied with suc- cess in apparently the most confirmed degree, provided the jistra- galus is not displaced so very far forwards that it does not Jidmit of being returned into its pro])or position, when, though the foot might be brought nearly or altogether to a rectangular line Avith