rRiNCirLES OF SURGERV. 280 CHAPTER XVI. THORAX. Wounds of the Thorax. Superficial wounds of the thorax which do not penetrate the cavity require merely ordinary treatment. Muscular bruises oc- cur very frequently, and often occasion so much uneasiness in res- piration as to simulate inflammation, and induce the practitioner to employ copious and repeated depletion, which can do no good, and may prove very hurtful by inducing the symptoms of excessive reaction. The state of the jmlse in such cases, if attended to, will prevent this injudicious practice, instead of which the injiu-ed mus- cles should be restrained from motion by encircling the chest with a broad bandage. Penetrating wounds are attended with various important cflfects, the mode of production and treatment of wliich should be thoroughly familiar to the practitioner, who, on such occasions, is called upon to act without delay on the knowledge he happens to possess. If air be admitted through the aperture, as it must almost ne- cessarily be to more or less extent, the lung of the side affected, imless adherent to the parietes of the cavity, inevitably contracts itself, owing to the elasticity of the pulmonary tissue, which is thus placed in equilibrio as to the pressure of the atmosphere* If only a small quantity of air has been allowed to enter before the wound is closed, the contraction of the lung will be proportionally incon- siderable. But if the wound remains open until the contractile tendency of the lung exerts its full effect, rcs})iration, so far as that half of the pulmonary apparatus is concerned, will be completely suspended. The ])atient then feels great oppression in the chest, his cheeks become purple, owing to the imperfect oxygenation of the blood, his extremities are cold, liis ptilse frequent, small, and irregular, and, if proper measures are not ein})loyed for his relief, death may ensue from congestion of the sound lung, or from the inflammation which results from this sUite. In cases of recovery.