208 rRlNCIPLES OF SURGERY. posture, as increasing the irritation. Mechanical contrivances do not afford the diseased spine nearly the same repose which is oh- ! tained from the horizontal posture, and frequently occasion the ^ greatest miscliief, by pressing injm-iously on different parts of the • trunk, as well as by inducing the patient to indulge in exercises which the diseased spine cannot bear with impunity. There can be no doubt as to the soimdness of the principle wliich constitutes the foundation of Mr Pott’s practice ; but it certainly has been applied too indiscriminately. In the common case wliich commences in scrofulous deposition in the substance, or on the surface of the bones, and insidiously advances through its suppimative stage, no advantage can be derived fi’om counter-frritation, which, on the contrary, may prove injurious by exhausting the patient’s strength. In the case also, occasionally, though not so frequently met with, where the spine forms an acute projection posteriorly, becoming bent almost to a right angle, with little pain and no suppuration,— the bodies of the vertebrae seeming to be simply absorbed, so that the remaining ring or processes are consolidated together, there is no use in opening issues. It is only when the pain and other symp- toms that have been mentioned denote the existence of inflamma- tory action, that the caustic or actual cautery should be employed. Tbe latter agent seems greatly preferable, and is to be applied longitudinally to the extent of a few inches on each side of the af- fected part, except when the neck is concerned, in wliich case the middle line may be selected for the purpose. . This disease occasionally affects the first or second upper cervical vertebra, with the corresponding part of the occipital bone. The symptoms, in the first instance, are the same as those wliich have been already described, consisting of deep-seated pain, felt chiefly at night, and aggravated by motion. But, owing to the import- ance of the portion of the nervous system which lies within the di- rect influence of the disease, wlien it is thus situated, namely, the lower part of the medulla oblongata, and the mobility of the joints concerned, the patient’s sufferings are extremely severe. In eating and speaking he feels darting pains through the neck. In chang- ing his position, he keeps the head perfectly steady, and employs both liis hands to assist the muscles in preventing any rotation or flexion of the affected vertebrae. He loses liis appetite and strength; \ complains of almost imremitting and intolerable nausea; and ex- ] hibits, by a peculiarly anxious and unhappy expression of counte- \ nance, that he labours under a disease of the most agonizing kind. i