81 DISEASED NUTRITION. sorbent action of the vessels. When the tumour is seated under the scalp, its cyst generally adheres so very loosely, that the operation may be performed almost instantaneously, and with extreme facility, by running a knife through the long direction of the tumom*, so as to divide the bag and superjacent integmnents, and then pulling it away with forceps, or turning it out with the handle of the knife. If the tumour is large, and has been subjected to pressure, the skin usually adheres to it at the most projecting part; and when this is found to be the case, an elliptical portion must be removed so as to include the conjoined integument and cyst. In other parts of the body the bag usually adheres by its whole surface to the surround- ing tissue, and must then be either regidarly dissected out, or if small, punctured, emptied, and touched with caustic. General Observations on Tumours. Though a very large proportion of the tumours, met with in j)rac- tice, may be readily referred to one or other of the kinds that have now been described, it must not be supposed that the characters and disposition are always distinctly marked. Various combinations and gradations of structure, as well as properties, frequently present them- selves, so as to render the diagnosis difficult and uncertain. In gene- ral, however, it is still possible to determine the predominant features, and accordingly form a correct opinion as to the nature of the dis- ease. But tumours also degenerate or change their condition, in respect both to substance and action. Thus fibrous gi'owths, after remaining for many years firm, circumscribed, moveable, and devoid of pain, may become partially or completely softened, confused with the surrounding textures, fixed in position, and the seat of uneasy sen- sations. Similar changes fire observed in the cystic, vascular, and even adipose growths. It would hence be often difficult to recognize the original nature of tumours presented in practice; but this is of little consequence, since, whatever it may have been, the existing chai’acters must regulate the opinion and practice. Thus, as already stated, fibrous growths may, for at long period of years, retain their simple unoffending nature, together with its characteristic features, and at length undergo a change so as to assume the condition of cerebriform tumours, when they are found to constitute no less un- satisfactory subjects of treatment than if they had originally j)os- se.ssed the same malignant disposition. This degenerating process sometimes occurs in a reproductive iorm, as is observed in the case of a tumour not unfrcquently met