39 EFFUSION. When the lymph is thrown out upon a surface, it takes the form of a crust or membrane,—and if not disturbed, is apt to become organized and vascular, so as to constitute a permanent structure. Adhesions are thus often effected between adjacent surfaces, as those of the jjleura. When lymph is effused on a serous surface, there is generally more or less serum also, which in this case is not limpid and colourless, but turbid, with ffakes of lymph floating in it. If the patient survives so as to-afford sufficient time for the purpose, the lymph where adherent to the sides of the cavity is organized into dense membranous structures, and the serum acquires the usual appearance of a dropsical fluid. The loose portions of lymph sometimes become indicated into masses of a totigli consistence and yellow colour, which usually resemble each other in size and form, jis may be seen not unfrequently in bursae that have suffered from inflammation. Effusion of lymph on a natural surface occurs almost always as a consequence of inflammation. It is also occasionally produced by two surfaces of the same kind being pressed together, as may bo seen in the blood-vessels, particidarly the veins, or in the contents of a large hernia for which an imperfectly fitting truss has been worn. The means of prevention consist in subduing the inflamma- tion that precedes; and it may farther be shitcd, that the constitu- tional disturbance produced by mercury seems much opposed to the action which occasions the effusion, whence the use of that medi- cine, in cases where injiuious effects are threatened from this source, as in Iritis. Lymph, like sermn, is effused into the cellular interstices also, but in this case is not confined to the subcutaneous textiu’C, and oc- curs with equal readiness in the constituent, as in the connecting cellular substance of organs. In this situation, if time be afforded, it always becomes organized, so as to cause thickening and hai-dcn- ing of the part concerned. This effusion may occur as a consequence of inflammation, but much more frequently takes its rise from the immediate effect of lo- cal irritation, such as that produced by the passage of fluids through preternatural channels, or by the lodgement of foreign matters within the substance of the body, as when the urine escapes by a fixtiila in pcriiKEo, or a bidlet lies where it cannot be extracted. The result in these cases is thickening of the surounding parts, or the fonnation of a capsule. This process is generally rather bene- ficial than injurious, as it limits the influence of the irritation, and