BLOOD-VESSELS. 115 the ligature and aneurism. Dr Colics of Dublin performed this operation unsuccessfully. (1813.) In a case of immense diffused aneurism extending from the clavicle half-way down the chest, in consequence of the axillary artery being ruptured by external ^^o- lence, I tied the subclavian at the outer edge of the scalenus, but without the effect of preventing hemorrhage from a punctiue that had been previously made, under the impression that the swelling was not of an aneurismal nature, and consequently found it neces- sary to amputate at the shoulder joint, which proved successful. Carotid Aneurism. The carotid artery at the angle of the jaw, where it divides into the two great branches, occasionally becomes the seat of aneurism, which is easily recognized by the general characters. Sir A. Cooper first ventured to tie the common carotid for this disease (1805 ;) and though the attempt did not succeed, he repeated it most suc- cessfully not long afterwards (1808.) Since then the artery has been secured very frequently, on various accounts, and with so lit- tle difficulty or bad consequences, that the operation is regarded one of ordinary interest. The patient should be placed on his back with the head low,— or at all events on a level with the trunk. The external incision should be two inches and a half long, or more if the patient is fat. It should extend along the internal or sternal edge of the stemo- mastoid, and be morfe or less distant from the sternum, according to the part of the vessel which it is wished to tie. The artery lies most superficially in the higher part of the neck, where it is cover- ed merely by the Integuments, jdnti/sma myoides, and fascia. Low- er dowTi it is overlapped hy the sterno-mastoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and is crossed by the omo-hyoid. The upper part of its course, therefore, would he preferable for the purpose ; but as the disease or injury which requires the ligatiue is generally seated here, the surgeon has seldom any choice, and must ope- rate at or below the crossing of the omo-hyoid. The edge of the sterno-mastoid having been brought into view, should be held aside, so as to expose the ascending belly of the omo-hyoid, which in its turn being turned either up or down, according as it is de- sired to tic the vessel above or below it, of which plans the latter is usually preferable, the sheath of the vessel will present itself. It ought to be opened on the tracheal side, to avoid the descendens noni, which runs down the centre, and, what is of much more con-