377 PELVIS. regularity with stone in the bladder must be extremely rare; and the danger of hemorrhage from this source so small as to afford little reason for apprehension, though instances of it have occur- red. When the flow of blood appears alarming, the surgeon should introduce his finger into the wound, and press the pudic against the ramus of the ischium. He will then ascertain whether the hemorrhage proceeds from it or its branches given off below, in either of which cases a ligature may be applied by means of a tenaculum, the sides of the wound being held aside, and the source of the bleeding, if necessary, exposed to view more completely by farther incisions. If the hemorrhage is found to proceed, not from the trunk of the pudic, the artery of the bulb, or that of the peri- neum, it must be referred to the neighbourhood of the prostate, and all that can be done is to introduce a tube wrapped in lint, raise the patient’s breech, and apply cold. Infiltration of urine takes place when, from the small size of the wound, from its being seated too far forward in the perineum, from an insufficient division of the levator ani, or from swelling of the cut surfaces, the urine has not a free outlet externally; and if the incision of the bladder is carried far back, more especially through the reflection of the pelvic fascia on its neck, this untoward event will be more apt to happen. The patient feels first a painful sense of distension, and then an uneasiness in the hypogastric region be- hind the pubis, which leads to the belief that peritonitis is commen- cing, and blood is freely withdrawn both locally and generally without affording any relief. A fever, attended with the symptoms that denote excessive irritation, commences, continues in despite of every means employed to check it, and proves fatal in a few days. Whenever the urine is not observed within five or six hoius after the operation, the surgeon should examine the tube to discover whether or no it is obstructed by coagulated blood,—and if a tube has not been employed, he should introduce his finger into the bladder, so as to make sure of there being a free passage for the fluid, keeping in mind that infiltration of urine, though in general easily prevented, can seldom if ever, be remedied. Inflammation at the neck of the bladder is one of the bad con- sequences most to be dreaded. It is attended with incessant pain at the point of the penis, insufferable nausea, with disgust at every sort of food, and occasional retching,—^yellow furred tongue,— frequent pulse,—and great general restlessness. It proves fatal seldom sooner than one, or later than three weeks. On dissection>