rillNCirLES OF SURGERY. 302 event generally happens between the 20th and 30th hours, and seldom sooner than the 12th, or later than the 48th. When death does not ensue until the later periods that have been mentioned, there are always traces of inflammation to be per- ceived ; but when it happens within a few hours after the injiiry has been sustained, no such appearances can be discovered. This disastrous effect of penetrating wounds is opposed by the resistance which the simfoces of the neighbouring viscera offer to the escape of the intestinal contents, and also by the contraction of the mus- cular fibres of the bowel at the injured part, wliich tends to j)ro- trude the mucous membrane through the aj)erture so as to obstruct it. If the effusion is restrained by these means for a short time, it may be prevented altogether by an adhesive exudation of lymph, that soon seals up the orifice, and unites the adjoining surfaces to- gether. The fatiil effusion will be most apt to occur when the in- testine injured is distended by fluid contents,—when the wound is longitudinal in respect to the direction of the canal,—and when, if transverse, it is so large as to divide the circumference of the gut to a considerable extent. Extravasation of the contents of the uri- nary and gall-bladders produces the s<ime effects as that of the intes- tinal matters. Internal hemorrhage may occur cither from an artery of the abdominal parietes, or from the vessels of the viscera. It is recog- nized by the usual indications of weakness, coldness, and sickness, together with a feeling of oppression in the abdomen, and, in ex- treme cases, a fluctuation perceptible on examination externally- On dissection the blood is found cither diffused in a tliin stratum over the whole peritoneal suidace, or accumulated at one jiart In the diagnosis of woimded intestine, probing of every sort is quite inadmissible. The shape and size of the weapon that in- flicted the injury, together with the direction and extent of the course which it seems likely to have taken, will afford some ground of probable suspicion; vomiting, or dejection of blood by stool, will not only prove that the giit has been wounded, but lead to a conjecture as to the seat of injury ; and the symptoms of intestinal effusion, or the escape of feculent and bilious matters from the wound, will render the case more decided. Should the wound- (id intestine protrude through the integxuncnts, the extent of the injury may, of course, be determined by simple inspection. In respect to the treatment of wounded intestine, it is evident, that, unless the injured part presents itself to view, no local treat- 4