INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 15 characters of a malignant deposition. Biassed no doubt by tliis impression, the surgeon finally resolved that the case did not admit of remedy, and three other surgeons of note, after repeated consultations,.agreed with him in this opinion. The patient then applied to me, when, paying no regard to the microscopical texture of the tumour, I carefully considered its situation, connexions, and history,—with the conclusion, that it was not connected with any unhealthy condition of the system, and that it might therefore be removed with every prospect of permanent relief. Acting under this persuasion, I performed the operation which was requisite, with the most satisfactory result. In short, gentlemen, I would say that the assistance which exploring needles and microscopes afford in the practice of surgery, may be compared to that which a lame man derives from the use of crutches. If he cannot walk without their support, he must of course avail himself of it; but need never expect to walk so well as one who is inde- pendent of such artificial aid. It is far from my intention to deny that the microscope may be of service in promoting the minute researches of anatomy, physiology, and pathology. But I maintain that it can never supply the want of that knowledge of obvious structure aud sensible action in health as well as disease, which is essential for the discrimination of mor- bid textures with a view to their remedy. I have now explained what may certainly be regarded as the principal duty confided to me ; and have next to acquaint you with another, which, although it rauks of secondary im- portance, is calculated to exert a powerful influence over your professional qualifications. This is, rendering the princi^jles of surgical practice intelligible and familiar to you, by teaching them in connexion with cases admitting of their application. They can never be so fully understood, or so well recollected, as when thus taught; as Horace says,— “ Segnius irritant animos den-.issa j)€r aurem, Quam qu0o sunt oculis subjecta lidelibus.” And in support of this most true statement, I might appeal to the experience of my old pupils, who often remind me, with the freshness of yesterday, of what was said and done in lec- tures delivered more than twenty years ago. The impressions thus made being so permanent, I shall be careful to avoid mis-