PIlINCin.ES or SUHGERY. H54> since that time it may be said, without exaggeration, to have been re- peated in thousands of cases. The procedure being new was eagerly seized upon by the youngest and least experienced members of the profession as an unappropriated territory, which might be made their own through the claim of early possession, and the public made to believe, by newspaper advertisements and the titles of trumpery pam- phlets on the subject, that the operation was somehow different in its natm-e from the ordinary practice of surgery—not requiring for its proper performance the usual qualifications of experience, dexterity, and judgment—and best exercised by persons having no claim to confidence in any other department of the profession. The consequences may be readily anticipated. No discrimination of cases being made, and no difference in the treatment adopted ac- cording to the variety of circumstances ; while the fundamental doc- trine of invariable success opposed that fair statement of the results which might have tended to improvement, frequent failures, and the loss of not a few eyes, have brought the operation into a con- siderable degree of discredit, Having been, I believe, the first to divide the muscles for squinting in Scotland, and having had occasion to do so very extensively in that class of patients which not only permitted, but compelled me, to w-atch the progress and ascertiiin the final issue of the treatment, I now feel entitled to ex- press a highly favourable opinion of the operation, j)rovided it be conducted on proper principles; and these I will now endeavour to explain. Strabismus is not a congenihil derangement, as used to be thought, but common during infancy or the early years of childhood. It may frequently be connected with some of the febrile affections incident to this age ; and though often met with in several members of the same fiunily, cannot justly be attributed to imitation. The obli- quity is for the most part confined to one eye, and when both are affected, they suffer alternately. In a very large proportion of cfises the eye-lxill is turned inwards to the nose, so that the leer or out\vard squint is not seen, I should say, more than once in fifty cases. Squinting is not only unseemly in appearance, but usually attended with more or less deficiency in the power of vision,—the patient be- ing seldom able to read, or distinguish any minute objects with the affected eye. This was formerly thought to cause the complaint; but is now ascertained to be its effect, and to depend merely upon the inability of attending to the different imj)rcssions made on the eyes at the same time, when one of them being habitually disrc-