330 rniNCIPLES OF SUIUJERY. tent of lint or cotton smeai-ed with some unctuous matter. If there is no appearance of an anus, and the lower part of the rec- tum is wanting, the prognosis must be very unfavourable, since such a malformation is usually associated with other imperfections of the system; and though it should not be so complicated, is re- medied M'ith great difficulty,—as the opening made by incision through the integuments and subjacent tissues, even if it reaches the rectum, and suffices in the first instance for allowing the eva- cuations, is very apt to contract, or become almost obliterated, not- withstanding every care that can be taken to prevent it from do- ing so. The child should he placed upon its back, and have its thighs held up so as to expose the parts fairly to view. The sur- geon then makes an incision about an inch in length in the mesial plane, having its posterior extremity about half an inch distant from the os coccygis. Making way with the knife, he introduces his fin- ger in the direction of the hollow of the sacrum,—and if the gut is neai', he will discover it by the fluctuation of its contents. If he succeeds in puncturing the coats of the intestine, the opening is to be enlai'ged to a suihible extent, and prevented from closing by the in- troduction of a tent. But if he fails in finding the gut within the dis- tance of at most two inches from the surface, he need not prosecute the search farther. In cases where a communication exists between the rectum and bladder or vagina, assistance may he derived in dis- covering the obstructed extremity by introducing a director tlirough the preternatural passage into the cavity of the intestine. There are some cases on record in which life has been preserved for a time by cutting into the caput ccecum in the right iliac region, or into the bladder through the perineum; but such desperate attempts can hardly be recommended. Stricture of the Rectum. Stricture of the rectum sometimes, but very rarely, exists as a congenital imperfection, and almost always depends upon changes in the structure of the coats of the intestine toking place in the progi'ess of life, especially during its middle and later periods. Like stricture of the oesophagus, it may be caused either by simple contraction, with thickening and induration of the gut, or by mor- bid degeneration of its constituent tissues, in which case the result- ing tumour is usually of a cai-cinomatous nature. The symptoms of simple stricture are slow, painful, and imper- fect evacuations of the bowels,—the desire to empty the rectum •6