GRANULATION. 55 the diet, increasing the exercise, and prescribing daily doses of the carbonate of soda with rhubarb,—as half a drachm of the former, and six grains of the latter. The local treatment must be regulat- ed by the condition of the ulcer as to excess or defect of action, but, generally speaking, lotions answer best, and of these the black wash, which is formed by decomposing calomel with lime water in the proportion of eight or ten grains to the ounce, and a weak so- lution of sulphate of copper, are the most useful. Ulcers depending on the suppression of other habitual discharges, such as the menstrual, should be treated on the same principle, the particular means employed being varied according to the circum- stances of the case. When an ulcer continues to exist without any local or constitu- tional irritation to account for its doing so, the obstinacy may then be fairly referred to peculiarity of action. This morbid disposition is either confined to the ulcer, or exists generally throughout the system. Specific ulcers may accordingly be divided into Constitu- tional and Local. Specific Ulcers present every variety of character. Their co- lour is usually grey, yellow, or purple; their surface is sometimes deeply excavated, at other times elevated into fungous growtlis, presenting a sort of cauliflower appearance. Their discharges vary without limit as to colour, consistence, and quantity. The pain at- tending them is also very variable. The cicatrix exhibits various peculiarities in the mode of its formation, often commencing in the centre or at one side, and shooting over the remainder of the area —or going on at one part wliile the ulcer extends at another—and being in general considerably depressed below the simrounding sur- face, but not uufrequently elevated into projections above it. 1 he treatment varies wdth the nature of the general or local dis- jK)sition which maintains the ulcer. It is for the most part proper, in the first instance, to destroy the siuface wdth caustic potass, or ni- trate of silver, or to touch it with a saturated solution of the suljdiate of copper, and then to apply black-wash, and subject the patient to an alterative course of regimen and medicines. If it appears that the patient s system has been generally disordered by any unhealthy influence, such as that of mercury and the venereal poison, the re- covery may be greatly accelerated by administering medicines which act as antidotes, as the hydriodate of potass, or iodide of iron. hen these means fail, strong preparations of mercury and ar- senic are sometimes employed locally to destroy the diseased action.