109 BLOOD-VESSELS. as to be about the distance of an inch from the superior spinous process. It should be between three and four inches long, and placed lower down or farther up, according to the situation of the tumour, so as to let the ligature be applied at some distance from, the sac. Generally speaking, the lower end of the incision ought to be about half an inch above the middle of Poupart’s ligament. The surgeon may cut through the integuments and tendon of the external oblique, as it is usually called, without any ceremony; biit in chviding the internal oblique and transverse muscles, he should use the precaution of raising their fibres with the forceps, before cutting them; and having thus exposed a portion of fascia trans- versalis, he may readily dilate the opening to what farther extent seems necessary, by means of a probe-pointed curved bistoury, guarded \vith liis fore-finger. Gently scratching through this fas- cia, which, near the crest of the ilium, does not adhere intimately to the peritonemn, he will be able to push that meiubrane inwards, and introduce his finger down to the artery which runs along the inner side of the psoas moffnus, loosely connected with the vein. If the aneurism-needle is assisted by the counter pressure of a fin- ger placed opposite its point, hardly any dissection will be required for detaching the vessel, and if the convexity of the instrument is turned towards the peritoneum, the risk of wounding it or the vein will be diminished; but iu tliis particular the surgeon must be guided by his own convenience. If any considerable branch of the circurnflexa ilii is cut dm’iiag the oj)eration, it ought to be se- cured. The edges of the wound should be stitched together, and lightly dressed. In tying this and other deep-seated arteries, much assistance is obtained from the use of iron or flexible copper spatu- las an inch or two bi’oad, and eight or ten long. Sir A. Cooper recommended another mode of operating, which was certainly in some respects easier, but objectionable on several gi’ounds, particu- larly in so far as it exposed the vessel too low down, in the neigh- bourhood of the disease, the Ijmphatic glands, and the origins of the epigastric and circumflex arteries. This method was, to make a curved incision, having its convexity downwards, and nearly in the direction of Poupart’s ligament, beginning over the margin of the external inguinal aperture, and terminating near the spinous pro- cess, then to cut through the tendon of the external oblique muscle, so as to expose the spermatic cord, which being pushed iqiwards, along with the muscles lying over it and the peritoneum under it, afforded room for aj)plying the ligature.