MOUTH. 475 which varies in size. The imperfections of the palate consist in a longitudinal split or division, which is either confined to the soft part, or extends throughout the whole partition between the nose and mouth. This Split Palate may exist independently of hare- lip, but rarely does so. The malformation to which the jaw is li- able consists in a projection of the central part that holds the cut- ting teeth, forming a tumour from which the teeth grow out at a right angle to their ordinary direction. In most cases of this kind the projection comprehends an equal portion of both superior max- illary bones, the portion, namely, which in the lower animals is oc- cupied by two distinct bones, the ossa incisiva or intermaxillaria. It forms a round knob, connected by a narrow neck to the septum of the nose, covered with a firm substance, similar to the gum, and having at its anterior part a similar shaped, but smaller sized, ap- pendage, which seems to consist of the tissue that should have con- stituted the lip. The fissures on each side of this knob meet toge- ther behind it, and are then continued single through the palate backwards. Instead of this conformation there is sometimes mere- ly an overlapping of one edge of the split gum over the other, and the degree to which the projection thus formed takes place is ex- tremely various. The impediments to deglutition and articulation, and the defor- mity which result from these imperfections, render their complete and early reparation very desirable; but several circumstances in respect to the age of the patient, must be taken into consideration before any operation for this purpose is attempted. Infants before the sixth month, especially if weak or irritable, are apt to die from convulsions or exhaustion occasioned by the pain, hemorrhage, and struggling which attend it; and, besides this danger, there is ano- ther of less magnitude, which is the risk of union between the ed- ges of the lip not taking place or being destroyed, in consequence