289 THORAX. preventing extensive ulceration, sloughing, or the formation of si- nuses. After the matter hsis been dischargod, a poultice is useful for a few days, and then sini})le dressing, succeeded by some gent- ly stimulating lotion, may be used to dress the sore until it is com- pletely healed. The chronic abscess forms Insidiously without any observable symptoms of inflammation. It occurs at all periods of life, but is met with most frequently in middle-aged women who are not married, or have no children. The size of the swelling is generally about that of an egg, its contents are usually thin, like whey or oil, and it is for the most part deeply seated. The integuments being fi’ee from redness and tension, while the substance of the gland, except in the neighbourhood of the pju-t affected, where it is condensed and thick- ened, retains its natural consistence, the abscess is very apt to be mistaken for a solid tumour, and this error is in some cases con- firmed by swelling of the axillary glands, which, taking place in consequence of the irritation caused by the c*ollection of fluid in the mamma, oi’ perhaps altogether independently of it, is regarded as evidence of malignant action propagated along the absorbents. The equality of the surface of the tumour when examined through the parts lying over it, the absence of pain when this is done, and the feeling of fluctuation that may then be more or less distinctly perceived, afford in general sufficient grounds for an accurate diag- nosis ; and should there remain any doubt as to tlie nature of the swelling, it may be readily resolved by making a punctime, which will evacuate the fluid if there is any, and will do no harm if there is not, since in that case excision ought to be performed without delay. A free opening shoidd be afforded to the matter, and the sides of the incision must be carefully kept sc])arate to j)revent their union, which is very apt to happen owing to the thickness of the parts. This operation is sometimes followed by considerable inflammation and constitutional disturbance, diu-ing the continu- ance of which, fomentations, with jjoultices and suitable remedies of a general kind, are to be employed according to circumstances. If necessary, more free dilatation, and stimulating washes, with an alterative course of medicine and diet to improve the patient’s health, may afterwards be had recoiu-se to. As a consequence both of this and the former kind of abscess, there frequently remain sinuses of great extent, seated very deep between the mamma and pectoral muscle, and running through the substance of the gland in various directions. A copious thin sero- T