4-22 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. headach, and is unusually sensible to light and noise. If the dis- ease proceeds, the indications of it just mentioned become more strongly marked. Delirium - and spasmodic contractions of the muscles come on, and are soon succeeded by insensibility and palsy of the limbs, and death closes the scene in the course of a few days at farthest. On dissection, the brain or membranes are found very vascular, with purulent effusion on the simface of the latter, and softening of the substance of the former. In cases where the texture of the brain has been lacerated in the first instance, the state of insensibility and collapse which immediately follows the accident, after a period of variable length, from a few hours to twenty-four, gradually passes into that of inflammation, generally with the intervention of an imperfect return of sense and voluntary motion, which is apt to suggest delusive hopes of improvement. The patient expresses pain by restlessness and moaning—his imper- fect ideas are strangely associated—liis limbs are rigid or convulsed —and in a short time he passes into the same condition as if the inflammation had originated from mere derangement of action, and not alteration of structure. On dissection, the cerebral sub- stance at the injured part is found softened, and seeming as if mixed with blood and pus. In treating all inflammatory attacks, it is of the utmost conse- quence to employ the remedial measures as early as possible, and in none is it more necessary to do so than in this. Free general de- pletion, followed up by cupping on the neck, powerful cathartics and injections, shaving the head, and applying cold to it, with the liberal administration of tartrate of antimony, are the means to be chiefly trusted for breaking the strength of the disorder. By leeching the temples, and keeping tip a copious secreting action of the bowels, the remaining symptoms are in general removed, if the other more efficient measures prove successful in subduing the force of the disease. Sometimes the inflammation assumes a chronic form, which, though not attended with much immediate danger, is very distressing, and may lead to permanent affections of a very unpleasant kind. In this case the patient’s pulse does not descend to the natural standard, but continues small and frequent; his tongue displays a yellowish-white fm-, his skin is hot and dry, he has no appetite, his sleep is distiubed, he complains of headach, his complexion is sallow, and the ex])ression of his countenance in- dicative of anxiety. Free purgation, and blistering of the head, are the best means of counteracting the morbid condition which