PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 338 ligatures. The everted gut and tumours should then be carefully replaced, and the patient should not quit the horizontal jxmture until the ligatures separate. If he suffers much irritation, which is seldom the case, he will derive most relief from doses of the muri- ate of morphia, repeated as often as may be necessary, and the hip- bath. Retention of urine is a frequent consequence of the operation, and may require the introduction of a catheter. In the piles de- pending upon a varicose state of the veins, relief may be afforded during the inflammatory paroxysm, by puncturing the distended ves- sels, and squeezing out their coagulated contents. Polypus of the Rectum. Vascular growths fi’om the mucous lining of the rectum, having a rounded form, and narrow elongated neck, so as to resemble a cherry, are occasionally met with in the vicinity of the anus. They protrude at stool, and occasion various unpleasant feelings, he* sides sometimes giving rise to copious hemorrhage. They shoidd he removed by ligatures, which may he applied either simply or by transfixion. Prolapsus Ani. Prolapsus Ani denotes a protaision of the intestinal coats through the anus, so as to constitute an external tumour. The extent to wliich this occurs varies from the slightest eversion of the mucous membrane immediately within the sphincter, to the descent of the v\hole thickness of the gut for a considerable part of its length. In cases of the latter kind it is probable that the sigmoid flexure of the colon is the part of the intestine that protrudes, since it is difficult to conceive how the rectum could suffer the requisite displacement. Whatever portion is forced beyond the sphincter, has its circula- tion impeded, and consequently becomes thickened and livid. W^hen the mucous membrane alone is everted. It presents the appearance of a ring, but when there is prolapsus of all the coats, the tumour is globular, varying from the size of an egg to that of a child’s head, and aflPords a copious secretion of bloody mucus, which very much resembles red currant jelly. Prolapsus of the whole thickness of the gut, or what may be cal- led complete prolai)SUS, occurs chiefly in children and aged persons, especially females of relaxed frame. That of the inner membrane, or partial prolaj)SUs, is generally observed in the vigour of life. The exciting causes of the former are, in children, severe or long-