177 BONES. by means of a sling or bandage. In difficult cases the patient should be treated in the horizontal posture, which of course greatly lessens the tendency to displacement The scapula may be broken through the acromion process, neck, body, and inferior angle. The first of these fractures is the most common, the others being very rare. It happens from direct \dolence, occasions nearly the same symptoms as fractur- ed clavicle, but not so well marked, and requires similar treat- ment The neck of the scapula is broken by violence, transmitted through the humerus. The symptoms of this fracture are filling up of the axillary cavity by the head of the humerus,—a hollow under the acromion process from the bone being out of its place,— and easy restoration of the parts to their natural position, when the shoulder is gently extended outwards; during wliich adjustment there is usually some crepitus perceived. The treatment required is the same as that recommended for fracture of the neck of the humerus. The nasal bones, though very thin at their extremity, becoming gradually thicker towards their connection Avith the os frontis, and having a strong support afforded to them by the projecting process of this bone, on which, together with the ascending branches of the superior maxilla, they ai'e firmly placed, suffer fractiue less fre- quently than might be expected from their exposed situation. The fracture, when it does occur, is generally comminuted, and is easily recognized by the striking defonnity wliich arises from the flatten- ing and obliquity of the nose necessarily attending it A great degree of violence being requisite to occasion the injury, there is usually much swelling, which is apt to conceal the displacement of the bones, if the examination be not made immediately after the accident is sustained. Whence it is proper, in all cases where the injury may be suspected, to search very carefully for it, since the inevitable consequence of its being overlooked W’ould be a defor- mity equally disagreeable and- irremediable. The depressed por- tions of bone may be easily elevated before they become consoli- dated by the effusion that ensues, and after being pressed up into their proper places by a pair of dressing forceps, or other suitable instrument, generally remain without reqTuring permanent support. Should they prove not sufficiently steady, a piece of lint ought to be carefully introduced, so as to distend the upper part of the cavity. The lower jaAv, though much exposed to violence by its situation, is comparatively seldom broken, owing to its mobility and strength. M