principi.es of surgery. 41C ])jiin3, and general weakness. In cases tliat resist more gentle means, the tumour may be removed by ligature, which should he of strong twine or silk; and either applied simply round its neck, or curried through the middle of it double by means of a neetllc, one of the threads being then tied on each side. If disagreeable effects ensue, opiate injections into the rectum, and the hip-bath, will be the most efficient measures for affording relief. Polypous excrescences frequently grow from the inner surface of the titerus, and either remain confined to its cavity, or descend into the vagina, sometimes even protruding externally. These tumours have a pyriform shape, and a firm consistence. They possess little sensibility, but much vfiscularity, and occasion many unpleasant symptoms, such as bloody and mucous discharges, pain in the back, weakness, emaciation, and general bad health. They cannot be either positively recognized, or removed, unless when they extend below the os titeri. If they cannot be brought into view, the best mode of removing them is to tie a strong ligature iis close as pos- sible to their root. This is executed much more easily by means of the fingers, than any of the apparahis contrived for the purpose. When the neck of the excrescence can be pulled beyond the ori- fice of the vagina, the simplest and speediest mode of proceeding is to transfix it with a needle, and carry through two threads, which are then tightly tied, one on each side, after which the tumour may be removed by the knife. There is often considerable difficulty in distinguishing growths of this kind from eversion of the uterus. Tlieir history, deficient sensibility, and their having round their root a ring formed by the os uteri, in general afford suflBcient diag- nostics on a careful examination. It may happen that the poly- pus, being very large, causes an eversion of the uterus, which will thus seem to consitute a neck to it. In these circumstivnees, the discrimination will be hardly practicable, but removal must be per- formed in cither case, and in the same way; so that the decision of the question is of little consecjuence. Excrescences frequently grow from one or both lips of the os uteri; and by bleeding, or exciting the usual symptoms of uterine irritation, occasion great distress. It has been foiind by Lisfranc, and other French surgeons,* that their excision may be perform- ed without any bad consequences, and with the best effects, even when they have attained a very large size. The insti-uments cm- • Ari’liivcs Ocncrales de Mudccine,—;)«ssim. 0