421 BRAIN commences. In such cases, death often occurs within a few hours, or even a shorter period after the accident, and before any signs of recovery fi'om the insensible state can be perceived. The treatment of concussion may be conveniently considered, in reference to the three stages of the consequences of the injury which have been mentioned, namely, that of the concussion pro- perly—that of recovery—and that of inflammation. During the first of these, little or nothing ought to be done, except putting the patient to bed, and applying some source of artificial heat to his feet if necessary. Bleeding would be decidedly improper; and the exhibition of internal stimulants, though it might hasten the recovery of sensibility, might also increase, the violence of subse- quent reaction. Unless, therefore, the signs of debility in the vital actions should be alai’ming, the patient may be trusted entirely to the powers of his constitution. The second stage, or return of sensibility, requires more atten- tion, since the treatment during this stage greatly influences the succeeding one. The patient is apt to suppose himself quite well, and to have fortunately made a very easy escape from the effects of his ficcident; but were he, in accordance with this belief, to expose himself to cold, or subject himself to the excitement of ex- ercise or stimulating food and drink, he would render inflammation almost certain, and aggravate its intensity beyond that which would otherwise have resulted fi'om the injury. He ought, therefore, to be confined to the hoiise, or to bed if the case is severe, and re- stricted to the most scrupulous antiphlogistic regimen for a few days. So far as the brain is directly concerned, he might safely resume his usual habits after this period of probation, but its co- verings being apt to suffer, or perhaps, more correctly, to show signs of the suffering at a more distant date, in consequence of the injury they have suffered, as will be explained hereafter, he should for severtd weeks at least be very abstinent, if the blow has been at all severe. The restoration of the sensorial faculties is some- times only partial, and the ])aticnt then remains permanently defective in respect to some of them, particularly memory. Sometimes also the character or disposition of the iiidividual is observed to be changed. The symptoms of inflammation of the brain generally appear within from twelve to twenty-four hours after the injury has been sustained. The pulse becomes quickened and sharp in its stroke ; the skin feels hot and dry; the ])aticnt is restless, complains of