THROAT. 273 tive, proceeding from imagination alone, or some inntation of the throat, and not dependent upon the actual presence of the foreign body, which may have descended or been ejected. And even should it be actually detained in the oesophagus, it wotild be safer to trust its removal to the ulcerative process, which will soon be ex- cited by its pressure on the tissues concerned, than to persevere in fishing for it with any of the ingenious but ineffective contrivances that have been devised for the purpose. CEsophagotomy. The object of this operation is, to make an opening into the cesophiigus, or lower part of the pharynx, to extract a foreign body that cannot be removed otherwise ; but such a circumstance happens so rarely that there are few instances of a surgeon being called upon in the whole course of his practice to jierforin the ope- ration. The patient should be seated or laid reclining, with the head bent backwards and to the right side. An incision about two niches and a half in length is then to be made in the middle of the trian- gular hollow at the upper jiart of the neck, which is bounded be- low by the stemo-mastoid and stemo-hyoid muscles. It should extend from the upper margin of the thyroid to a little below the cricoid cartilage. The platysina myoides and fascia of the neck having been successively divided, the sheath of the vessels will come into view, and the surgeon then making an {issistant press the la- rynx to the right side, dissects inwards to the pharynx, avoiding, if possible, the superior thyroid artery and tying it if cut, until ho feels the foreign body through the coats of the bag, or a curved in- strument introduced by the mouth so iis to distend them. He finally opens the pharynx, and with his finger, or curved forcej)s, removes the body of which he is in search. After the ojieration the pa- tient must be nourished by food conveyed either tlu-ough a tube introduced by the nose, and permanently retained until it ceases to be required, or by one ])<issed from the mouth occasionally. Stricture of the (Esophagus, The oesophagus is subject to three different kinds of stricture ; one depending on inordinate contraction of the muscidar fibres; a second consisting in a simple constriction and thickening of the mucous membrane; and a third caused by degeneration of the 3