PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 442 excite irritation by the bites, but tiiis inconvenience has not been experienced in practice. Punctures to the number of from ten to fifty, repeated once or twice a-day, (Sir R. Dobson,* 1828,) have been preferred by some as free from this objection, besides being more economical and convenient. Incisions of an inch or two in length, and made fairly down to the cellular texture (Copland Hutcliison, 1814,)t are of the greatest use in the phlegmonous form of the disease; both, in the first instance, by cutting short the inflammatory process, and also in the more advanced stage by faci- litating the discharge of pus or sloughs. Longer incisions, equal in extent to the inflamed surface, and sometimes exceeding one or tw'o feet, have been recommended, (LawTence, 1828,)$ but seem to have no advantage to compensate for their severity, and cannot be regarded as exempt from danger in systems not particularly strong. There are few cases that require incisions of any kind; and great mischief has resulted from their too indiscriminate employment In persons wLo are very weak, and suffer intense pain, the best application is a w'arm solution of acetate of lead wdth opium. Wlicu there is much swelling of the part aflFected, (Qidematous Erysipe- las,) pressure is found very beneficial, both before suppuration, and w'liile sinuses exist after the matter is discharged. If sloughing takes place, (Gangrenous Erysipelas,) turpentine liniment, pressure, and stimulants administered internally, are proper, until the dead parts are thrown off, after which a nutritive diet is all that the pa- tient requires. The last mentioned form of the disease sometimes occurs with very acute symptoms, and runs its course in despite of every sort of treatment, so as to terminate fatally within a week from its commencement. It generally originates from some slight local injmy, such as a prick or scratch, but occasionally commences without any breach of the surface having been sustained. It is al- ways preceded by, and accompanied wdth, extreme constitutional disturbance, of which the most remarkable features are excessive rapidity of the pulse, great frequency of respiration, w'ant of sleep, anxiety, dusky complexion, and dark colour of the tongue, lips, &c. Eree incisions, hot fomentations, calomel wdth opium, administered internally, and a liberal allowance of wine or other stimulants, are the means best calculated to afford relief in this most alarming state, which may be regarded from the first as all but incurable. « Med.-Chinirg. Trans. Vol. xiv. p. 20C. t Ibid. Vol. V. 1 Iljid. V'ol. xiv.