MUSCLES. 255 ilgarded, the organ ceases to be serviceable. A lady who squinted iinwards with both eyes alternately found that she saw distant ob- jjects best with one, and near ones with tlie other. A gentleman \who squinted outwards with both eyes alternately complained that, iin driving, he felt great difficulty in avoiding obstacles from ina- ; bility to judge accurately of distances. If the eyes are restored to t their proper directions at an early age, the vision of both usually 1 becomes perfect, but in elderly persons there is seldom more than : a partial improvement. The internal or external recti muscles occasion the obliquity, 1 but do not effect this, as in the case of club-foot or wry-neck, by per- i inanent contraction. The patient can usually render the eye ? straight by a voluntary effort, and whenever the sound one is closed, t the other ceases to stiuint; but, if the eyelids are then suddenly (opened, the eye, however straight it may ordinarily be, is found (completely inverted or everted, just as the squinting one was pre- 'viously. From this very curious fact it would appear, that the < complaint depends upon an alteration, mot in the texture or length • of the muscle, but in its disposition to contract, or rather in the dis- ) position to contract possessed by the two corresponding muscles, and consequently, that if advantage is to be derived from division of the rectus, the muscle of cither the straight or the squinting eye may be subjected to the operation. Another inference of more i practical value, and one early acted u^on by my friend and former I pupil, Ur Elliot of Carlisle, is that in cases where complete relief I has not been afforded by cutting the rectus of the squinting eye, the i corresponding muscle of the other eye may be divided with ad- t vantage. In confirmation of the arrangement depending rather I upon functional than organic alteration, it may be added, that most I persons labouring under the complaint remark that it varies in dc- ; gree with a variety of circumstances, but especially disturbance of t the digestive organs. A priori, therefore, it might have been ex- ; pected that division of the recti would not afford complete, or, at all events, permanent, relief, since, if tlie tendency to contraction re- mained, it would reinduce obliquity so soon as the muscle acquired 1 new attachments to the sclerotic, just as has been ascertained to hap- pen in the spasmodic form of wry-neck. Experience, however, having happily ascertained that the oj)eration does in general prove effectual, the theoretical objection must not stand in the way of its |temployment; but may account for the foilures as well as relapses