rilINCIPLES or SURGERY. 436 means, afford some relief; but the most effectual measiire, for ren- dering it complete, is to cut the wounded nerve entirely across. When a foreign body is lodged in the substance of a nerve, the same sjTnptoms that have just been mentioned are produced in an aggravated degree. Agonizing pain, and spasmodic contraction of the muscles are then induced, so as to make the patient willingly accept the severest terms for obtaining a release from his suffer- ings. E,Kcision of the irritating body ought of course to be per- formed if practicable, and, if this cannot be done, ampuhition must he resorted to as the only remedy.. Symptoms very similar to those resulting from injury of a nerve sometimes occur without any local circumstances to account for them. The part affected is generally the free. The pain and spasmodic action of the muscles are not constant, hut occur in paroxysms, which either come on spontaneously, or are indu- ced by movement of the jaws, the operation of cold, heat, or stimulating food, and often mere mental emotion. This Tic-Dou- lovrenx, as it is called, was formerly treated by dividing the nerve distributed to the affected part, and the portio dura, together with the three external branches of the fifth pair, were often cut across for this purpose. Relief generally followed the operation in the first instance, hut seldom j)roved of more than very temporary du- ration, which might be owing to the communication of other nerves, the reunion of the one divided, or to the continued operation of the cause that occasioned the disease. This, as already observed, is not local, and seems to he generally constitutional derangement, depending on imperfect action of the digestive organs or excite- ment of the uterine system. The profession being now fully con- vinced of the inefficacy of dividing the nerves for fic-rlouloureux, have abandoned all such attem])ts, and trust entirely in its treat- ment to the influence of rcgidated diet and regimen, together with medicines calculated to effect a beneficial alteration in the state of the general health. A succession of smart j>urgatives, especially croton oil, is often very useful ; and the carbonate of iron, ad- ministered in large doses, sometimes affords remarkable, thougli less frequently permanent benefit The nerves sometimes, but very rarely, become the seat of tu- mours. They are generally of a firm fibrous structure and yellow- ish colour, hut have been met with of a soft i)ulpy consistence. They seem to be formed in the interior of the nervous fasciculi, which can he traced over one or more sides of the swelling. Tlu'y