2 riuNciPi.ES or surgery. As the field of medicine is thus very extensive, it lias been di\dded into Physic and Surgery,—the former department comprehending internal complaints, while the latter includes those which are si- tuated externally, or require for their treatment the use of external means. The art of Sui’gery cniisists in the performance of the va- rious manual duties required in the employment of these means; and the science of surgery directs their choice and application. In the diseases which constitute the surgical department of me- dicine,—if we except those depending on the introduction of foreign substiuices, the retention of secretions, and the presence of concre- tions in the cavities and canals of the body,—there is always alte- ration of structure, wliich may be owing either to morbid nutintion, or to external violence. In both cases, reparation is to be effected, not by mechanical art, but by the action of the nutrient vessels; and all that the simgeon am do, is to remove obstacles out of the way of their stilutary operation. When he speiiks of healing a wound, for instance, he means notliing more than placing the part concerned in the most favourable circumstances for undergoing this reparatory process. It is therefore necessary, in entering upon the study of Siu'gery, to become acquainted with the various actions of these vessels, whether tending to the injury or reparation of struc- ture. And as it veiy generally happens, that there is inteqjosed, between the natural actions and those alterative of the structure, a diseased condition, which has been named Inflammation, this must be considered in the first place. Si/mptoms of hiflammation. By Inflammation is understood that condition of a part in which it is red, swelled, hot, and painful, along with more or less fever, or constitutional disturbance. But there is still another circiunstance of this morbid state, which, though it has not been so much noticed, is really the most imporhmt of the whole; that is, ])erversion of the vital action in the part affected, wluch is tnily essential, and never- failing,—while the other symptoms are extremely variable in their demree, and not even constant in their existence. Redness.—This symptom is owing to distension of the vessels which convey blood; to blood being admitted into those which usually aj)pear to receive only tlie colourless part of it, whether this Ixj owng to the red globules not entering at all, or only so few at a time as to conceal tlieir coloiu-, since it is only when existing in considerable assemblages that they appear red; and also to bloody