I’llIKClPLES OF SURGERY. 211 Of the symptoms of dislocation, the most constant and charac- teristic one, especially as a distinction from fracture, is immobility or fixtvu’e, when motion of the limb is attempted either by means of its own muscles or by an external force, which depends upon the unnatural position of the articulating extremities of the bones^ and the contraction of their surrounding muscles. The limb is gene- rally shortened, but sometimes it is lengthened, and when the latter is the case there cannot of course be any suspicion of fracture. There are also, attending the accident, deformity from the altered situation of the hones, pain or numbness from tlieir pressure on the muscles and nerves, and swelling with coldness from obstruction of the blood-vessels. The treatment of dislocation consists in reducing or replacing the articular surface which has been moved from its proper posi- i tion; in doing which it is necessary to counteract the forces that caused the two acts of the removal. This is effected by first ex- ^ tending the limb, so as to draw back the bone to the point where ; the muscles began to opei’ate in producing its displacement; and i then urging it in a direction opposite to that in which the external violence primarily acted. These steps in the process of reduction, which are named extension and coaptation, have sometimes an equal | share in its iiccomplishment, but more frequently one or other of them is chiefly useful. In ball or socket-joints the first, and in hinge-joints the second is chiefly exercised. The dislocated bone ought generally to be extended in the di- rection which it has assumed in consequence of the displacement. The force for this purpose may be applied so as to act either di- rectly on the bone itself, or on a ])art of the limb separated from it by one or more articulations. It has been objected to the former mode, that it causes compression of the muscles opposed to reduc- tion, and to the latter, tlrnt, by keeping the limb straight, it is still more adverse to yielding of the muscles. It does not appear, however, that any practical inconvenience is experienced in either of v these ways. The former method is on the whole more convenient | in most cases, and is almost always emjdoyed in this country. In order to make extension effectually, it is necessary to have counter- ; extension exerted on the corresponding surface from which the bone has been dislocated, viz. the one nearest the centre of the body; and the more du'cctly it is subjected to the power employed for this })urpose, the more perfectly will the object in view be at- tiiined. The force employed for extension may be either simply