285 THOU AX. chest; but if this proves insufficient, or if there is not any emphy- sema, an opening sliould be made without delay through the pa- rietes of the thorax. Paracentesis thoracis, for this purpose, was first proposed by Mr Hewson.* Paracentesis Thoracis. I’aracentesis, or puncture of the thorax, is j)erformed to evacuate air, blood, pus, or serum accumulated to an injurious extent with- in the cavity of the pleura. It might appear at first sight that al- most any part of the parietes could be chosen for this purpose,— but the following considerations limit the proper bounds of the ope- ration to a more narrow space. An opening higher up than the fifth or sixth rib would not afford a convenient outlet for the fluid which requires to be discharged,—-and it could not be made lower than the ninth or tenth without incurring the danger of injiming the diaphragm. The intercostal spaces not thus interdicted, are thickly covered with muscles for a third part of their extent at least, fi’om both the sternal and vertebral extremities; and at these parts the intercostal arteries are more exposed to danger than in that which lies between the angles and the cartilages of the ribs. The principal vessel of each intercostal space runs along the lower edge of the superior rib, overlapped and protected by the sharp de- scending ridge of its external margin,—but a branch of the artery proceeds along the upper border of the lower rib,—and the safest place, consequently, for cutting through the parietes is equidistant between the two ribs that circumscribe the space selected.for the operation. It appears, on the whole, therefore, that the best situ- ation for operating is between the fifth and eighth ribs on the right side, and the sixth and ninth on the left, where the presence of the pericardium renders it prudent to cut lower, at an equal distance from the sternum and spine, and in the middle of the space between the two ribs. The patient should be laid on a sofa, or brought to the edge of his bed, and be made to bend his body so as to render the affected side of the chest as convex as possible. The surgeon makes a cut between one and two inches long through the integuments resting on the lower rib, and an assistant having then ])idled the parts up- wards so as to make the wound correspond with the middle of the intercostal space, the muscles and pleura are to be successively di- vided with a scalpel guided by the fore-finger of the left hand, * Med. Obs. and Inquiries, Vol. iii. 1707.