49 GRANULATION. their arrangement As the effect of these has generally been to perplex instead of simplifying the subject, it seems better to adopt an easier system ; and the three following heads will be found to comprehend the whole. 1. Ulcers wliich are prevented from heabng by defect of action. 2. Ulcers which are prevented from healing by excess of action. 3. Ulcers which are prevented from healing by peculiarity of action. The circumstance which has occasioned the ulcer, the part of the body in which it is situated, or the peculiarities of the patient’s sys- tem, sometimes at once denote its nature; but in general tliis can be learned best by caa-cfully examining the distinctive features that are presented, in respect, 1. to the surface of the ulcer, which may be level with the surrounding skin, depressed below it, or ele- vated above it, concave, smooth, or irregular; 2. the shape of its edges which may be regularly curved and smooth, or eroded and angular, round or sharp, undermined and inverted, or thick and everted; 3. the quantity or quality of its discharge, which may be purulent, bloody or serous, tliick or thin, copious or scanty, fetid or inodorous; 4. the kind and degree of the pain proceeding from it; 5. the condition of the surrounding and subjacent parts, which may be hard or soft, inflamed or natural; and 6. the mode of its cicatrization, which may proceed from the circumference to the centre, or from the centre towards the circumference,—on a level with the surrounding sxtrface, elevated above, or depressed be- low it Ulcers prevented from healing by Defect of Action. The defect of action has been thought to depend sometimes upon a real want of power, and at others upon a want of disposition to exert the power that exists. The idcers of this kind have accord- ingly been divided into Weak, and Indolent or Callous, which ex- hibit different characters, and require different treatment In Weak Ulcers the surface is generally higher than that of the surrounding skin, and exhibits large flabby granulations, which are either of a dark colour, like that of venous blood, or pale and (ede- matous. The edge is smooth and flat or gently rounded; the dis- charge thin, watery, and generally profuse ; the pain usually incon- siderable or altogether absent. The parts suirouncbng and subja- cent, constituting what is called the stool or base of the ulcer, are soft and free from any indurating effusion. The cicatrix forms o