miNCIPLES OF SUllGERY. 122 arterial blood when injured; but their hemorrhagic dis])osition is not nearly so strong as that of the former of these diseases. Their situation precludes excision with safety ; and the ligature ought al- ways to be chosen as the means for removing them. From one case tliat has come under my notice, I am inclined to think that a third sort of erectile tumours may be formed by enlargement of the lym- phatic capillaries. The tumour had the external characters of a nae- vus, with the exception of being perfectly white. It possessed the usual cellular-looking structure of the erectile texture ; but, upon opening spontaneously, instead of bleeding, discharged large quan- tities of a fluid like water containing an admixture of milk. It was cut away with scissors from the inner surface of the labium, from which it grew in a pendulous form. The patient continued per- fectly well for four days, and then had a violent rigor, with great constitutional disturbance, wliieh proved fetal at the end of thirty- six hours. The veins were found quite sound ; but the lymphatics coidd be traced up the lumbar region on the affected side greatly distended, and siu’rounded with the pimulent efi’usiou into the cel- lular substance. Osseous Aneurism. There are various detached cases on record of tumours occurring in bones, and presenting several of the characters of aneurism. In 1826, M. Breschet published an essay on this disease;* and in the same year, without any knowledge of his view's, I introduced the title of Osseous Aneurism into the Syllabus of my Lectures on Sxmgery. The tumour in question has been met with, out of all proportion, most frcfiuently in the tibia, at its upper extremity. It has been observed also in the femur and scapula, and the wrist find ankle. The predisposition to it seems strongest in the male sex, and at the time of life between puberty and middle age. The enlargement is attended with severe pain from the commencement. It is at first equally firm and resisting with the other parts of the bone, but, on increasing, becomes more soft and yielding, not over the whole sur- face, but at some points of its extent, where an obscure pulsation or throbbing can generally be i)crceived. If other parts of the sac he subjected to pressiue, they often give way with a crackling sort of sensation. As the disease increases, the limb aftected becomes weak and oedematous, the superficial veins over the swelling are greatly enlarged, and the pain is extremely distressing. At last • Repertoire, d'Aimtomie, T. ii. p. 142.