128 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. consequences of this practice, though not so disastrous as those of the ligature, were still occasionally disagreeable enough to overba- lance the chance of benefit. Another pro])os^il was made by Mr Mayo, viz. to make an eschar with caustic over the vein at a sound })art of its course above the varix, and thus excite such inflamma- tion of tlie vessel as might be sufficient to occiision obliteration of its cavity by the effusion of lymph. This method has the recom- mendation of being an imitation of a natural process of cure, for it sometimes happens that the varicose vessel, in consequence of spon- taneous inflammation, becomes conq)lotely impervious. In exciting this action artificially, howevei*, there is great difficulty in avoiding the opposite extremes of deficient and excessive iri-itation, and alarming inflammation has in consequence been repeatedly induced, hi. Velijeau has more lately introduced a method of great simpli- city, and perfect safety, which consists in passing a common pin through the skin, under the vein, while it is compressed and push- ed outwjmds by a finger and thumb, and then tying a thread tight- ly round it, A little redness and swelling follow, and idceration soon sncceeding detaches the pins with hardly any j)ain, and no dan- ger. It is still questionable, however, whether obstruction of the vein merely at a part of its course is adequate to afford ])crmancnt re- lief ; and in the present state of information iqion the sidyect, it seems that the most judicious course in treating varix is to be .satis- fied with remedying its bad consequences, and using means for pre- venting their occuiTcnce. Aneurismal Varix. When a contiguous artery and vein are wounded together, it oc- casionally ha])])ens that the orifices of the vessels remaining undis- turbed, the blood is allowed to pass from the artery into the vein; the consequence of which is, that the latter vessel bec'omes large and tortuous, communicating a jarring sort of sensation to the hand w'hich examines it, and a peculiar thrilling sound, like the purring of a cat, or tlie prolonged articidation of the letter K, (bruit de rape,) is heard when the ear is brought near the injured i)art. The limb becomes oedematous and cold, owing to the want of its usual supply of nutritious fluid, the greater part of which, instead of pro- ceeding onwards to its destination, flows back to the heart, and also to the obstacle opposed to the return of the blood from the veins be- low, by the distension of those above, which is caused by the for- cible current of the artery. From the same cause there is hardly 1