494 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. occui-s chiefly in young adults of the male sex. M. Dupuytren, who first remarked the peculiarities of this fibrous structure, suj)- j)oses that it frequently exists as an antecedent of the medullary or hrain-like polypus, into which it degenerates, first at the part most distant from its root, and ultimately throughout its whole extent. It may be stated, however, on the evidence of extensive observation, that the soft kind of growth often (so far as I have seen, always,) disphiys its proper characters from the commencement; and there are cases on record in which the fibrous polypus retained its dis- tinctive firmness of texture after existing for years, and attaining a great size. It seems to adhere to the bone, hut not to depend on any diseased condition of that tissue, so that if torn out by the root it may be permanently removed. This method has been re- commended by Dupuytren as the only mode of effectual treatuicnt, —and in order to obtain a secure hold for the instrumeuts, he did not scruple to slit open the nose. Sometimes it distends the antrum maxillare,—and having caused absorption of the walls of the cavity, protrudes under the cheeks, where it may be exposed by dividing the mucous membrane of the mouth, and seized with forceps. The instruments for this pui’pose should be very strong, and provided with numerous large projecting teeth. Several pairs in general are required to be fixed in succession as space is gained, and the strength of two or more stout assistants has been found necessary to effect the evulsion.* In performing such operations, the surgeon .should be prepared for a profuse hemorrhage,—and as a precautionary measure, ought to pass a thread for plugging the posterior opening of the nostril, if this should prove necessary. Polypous growths of different kinds sometimes, instead of grow- ing forwards into the nose, descend into the jdiarynx. In such cases, the principal part of the tumour may in general be removed by introducing the loop of a doubled silver wire through the nose into the pharynx, guiding it with the finger round the body of the rrrowth, and then pulling the wire so as to draw it up to the neck or thin part near the rook The ends being then passed through a double cannula, are fiistened to its extremity, and tightened every day until the instrument is detached, when the i)olypus either falls into the pharynx, or may be easily cxtractetl by fixing a hook into ik But it is better to detach the })olypus by seizing its roots with forceps introduced through the nostril, and then to push it into the throak » Sabatier, Medecuie Operatoire, par Sanson et Begin, 1824, T. iii. p. 280.