PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 10 upon it -witliout being qualified in anotbcr way, immediately to be explained, you would find insuperable difficulties at every step. The obstacles to which I allude depend upon the difficulty of ascertaining in any given case the precise seat and nature of the derangement which requires to be remedied. For in- stance, let us suppose that the patient has been thrown down with force, that he has not been able to rise from the ground, and that he has been conveyed to bed complaining of pain in the neighbourhood of the hip-joint. In such a case there can havdlv be any doubt that one of three things has happened, namely, dislocation of the thigh bone, fracture through the trochanters or neck of the bone, or bruise of the joint from violent compression of its articulating surfaces. Tlie appropri- ate treatment for each of these derangements is clearly set forth in the principles of practice which are understood to have been learned, and the different manipulations requisite may be easily carried into effect. If the bone is displaced, it must be pulled in the proper direction for withdrawing it from its abnor- mal position ; if fracture has occurred, the long splint should be applied to prevent motion of the broken surfaces at the scat of injury ; and if the joint has been bruised, leeches, fomentation, and perfect rest of the articulation are required. It may, there- fore, seem that a case of this kind should form an easy subject of treatment, and yet there are few rocks on which the patient’s comfort and the surgeon’s credit are more apt to suffer ship- wreck. Let us take another case, and suppose that the patient labours under a tumour of the breast. In all probability, the swelling here must depend upon an abscess, a cyst, a fibrous growth, a simple enlargement of the gland, or a malignant de- generation of its texture. In the first of these conditions, the matter should be evacuated ; in the second, the bag may be punctured or dissected out ; in the third, the tumour may be removed with every prospect of permanent benefit ; in the fourth, local treatment of a soothing kind, with what other means are requisite for correcting any derangement of the system concerned in its production ; and, in the fifth, cither free ablation of the breast, or, as is much more frequently the proper course, merely such palliatives as may tend to allay un- easiness and delay the morbid process. In all this there is little ditficulty for either the head or hands, and yet there arc