MouTir. 483 tedious and painful in their operation; and the ligature, while it is liable to these objections, is also attended with great difficulty in its application, owing to the depth of the parts concerned, and the involuntary resistance of the patient The only ground of de- clining excision is the apprehension of hemorrhage ; but, if the cut- ting instrument is kept parallel with the great vessels, there cannot be the slightest risk of this. It is not necessary to remove the whole of the tumour, since the portion that remains is soon dimi- nished by absorption, so as to occasion no farther inconvenience. Curved scissors might be supposed the most efficient instrument for this operation, but on trial are found not to be so. They can hardly be made to cut through the whole thickness of the mass at one stroke, and it is extremely difficult to make a second, owing to the struggles which are induced by the bleeding. The tumour thus partially debiched, hangs down into the pharynx, where it ex- cites irritation that causes coughing or retching, and it has even happened that death resulted from this circumstance. The easiest and safest method is to seize the tumoiu’ with the hooked forceps (Fig. 3, Plate IV.) and having put it on the stretch, to cut away as much of it as seems necessary with a probe-pointed, slightly curved, bistoury (Fig. 5, Plate I.) If the surgeon proceeds with decision, he may in this way be sure of completing the separation of the mass in two or three seconds at most Teeth. The teeth generally begin to appear in the mouth between the seventh and tenth months,-and generally present themselves in the following order:—1. the two front incisors of the lower jaw; 2. the four incisors of the upper jaw ; 3. the two lateral incisors of the lower jaw; 4. the four anterior grinders; 5. the canine; and 6. the four posterior grinders. The process of dentition, particularly that part of it in which the teeth, by pressing upon the gum, in- duce absorption of it, and thus form a breach to allow their pro- trusion, is attended with irritation, which varies in degree, and pro- duces effects of corresponding importance, both local and general. Uneasiness of the mouth, swelling and pain of the gums, inflamma- tion of the eyes, and eruptions of the skin, j)articularly that of the head, diarrhoea, convulsions, and fever, are the symptoms most fre- quently observed. Soothing measures, such as the warm bath and gentle opiates, ought to be employed for allaying them, and when- ever they arc at all severe, the gum should be freely scarified where