BONES. 207 engages the whole substance of two or three adjoining bodies of the vertebrae, which on dissection are found almost entirely wasted away, together with the intervertebral substance, portions of dead bone and pus occupying the cavity. The disease is usually ascribed to twists or blows; but as these injuries are seldom thought of imtil long after they are alleged to have been received, and not before the symptoms attract attention, there is much reason to discredit their effect in exciting the mor- bid action. In children there is reason to believe that the first step of the morbid process is the deposition of scrofulous substance in the cellular interstices, or on the siu-face of the bones. It would seem that in adults the disease is liable to be excited by venereal excesses. In conducting the treatment of this acute curvature, as it is ge- nerally named, surgeons proceeded formerly in the belief that the primary evil consisted in displacement of one or more of the verte- brae from violence; that the pain and loss of voluntary motion de- pended on pressure caused by the dislocated parts of the spinal marrow; and that the disease of the bones was not only caused, but kept up by the irritation proceeding from their imnatm*al posi- tion. Their practice, therefore, consisted in the use of mechanical contrivances for rectifying the displacement. The inefficacy and danger of such a mode of proceeding must be obvious to every one acquainted with the true condition of the bones, which having their substance destroyed more or less extensively, though separable by force, must resume their situation as soon as it is removed. And if the vertebr® are much weakened or partially united, they will be very apt to suffer such fracture or disjunction as may render the limbs below permanently paralytic, or prove immediately fatal. ^Ir Pott, observing that curvatm-e of the spine from rickets, though productive of the most extreme distortion and deformity, was not attended with palsy ; and that the palsy accompanying the • disease in question did not resemble the state which is induced by pressure on the spinal marrow, the muscles of the limbs being not soft and flaccid, but rigid and tense, concluded that the curvature was an effect, and not the cause of the disease, which he thought might more reasonably be referred to inflammation seated in the , bodies of the vertebr®, and causing more or less irritation in the j neighbouring spinal marrow. I With this view of the matter he used counter-irritation by means of issues opened with the caustic potash, as early as possible, in or- I der to subdue the inflammatory action, and interdicted the erect