256 PRIXCIPLKS OF SURGERY. occasionally met with, and afford encouragement to repeat the di- vision when it does not give all the relief desired at once. The operation essentially recpxires an opening of the conjunctiva sufficiently extensive to expose the insertion of the rectus in fault, and a comjdete division of the muscle at this part Various me- thods have been recommended for effecting this, by the use of hooks for catching the muscle as it lies in the loose texture of the orbit; but the procedure recommended by ^Ir Liston, consisting in a simple secure dissection of the part, without any hap-hazard diving, has always seemed to me greatly preferable to any such uncertain and dangerous artifices. I have always, with the exception of some experimental trials in the early part of my experience, ])erformcd the operation in his way, with some little modification, and will now describe the mode of conducting it. The apparatus required consists of two speculums, such as is represented in Plate II. Fig. 5; a pair of common dissecting forceps ; a hook of the kind shown by Fig. 1 ; a pair of scis- sors like Fig. 3, very sharp in the edge, but blunt at the point; and a small piece of sponge. There shoidd be two assist- ants, one to elevate the upper eyelid, and keep the eyeball evert- ed, and the other to depress the lower lid, and hold the sponge. The operator stands behind the patient, who is seated on a chair, unless the left eye be affected, when he ought to be in front. The first step is to insert the smaller end of the speculum under the edge of the iqiper eyelid, and confide it to the assistant, then to do the same with the lower one; next to fix the hook through the conjunctiva into the substance of the sclerotic, about midway be- tween the margin of the cornea and the canmcula lacrymalis, and, pulling the ball steadily so as to evert it completely, to place the liook in the principal assistant’s unoccupied hand. Lastly, to raise a fold of the conjunctiva by means of the forceps ap])lied close to the caruncle, and with the scissors cut it in a Vertical direction to the extent of about half an inch in the middle line between the forceps andhook. Tlie attachment of the muscle, being then distinctly exposed, is divided by successively cutting with the scissors portions of it raised by the forceps, just as in dissecting this paid in a dead body. When the operator thinks he has completely separated the muscle from the sclerotic, the patient shoidd be desired to open both his eyes, when, if the affected one appears slightly everted, the operation may be safely concluded; but if it is merely straight or still inclined to its original obliquity, another search must be made 4