EYE. 463 die fingers, as in couching. The point of the knife is entered about the distance of a line from the margin of the cornea, a little above • its transverse diameter on the temporal side, and pushed steadily through until it issues at the opposite corresponding part If the iris comes in the way of the blade, gentle pressure is made upon the cornea; and when the membrane has thus been induced to withdraw itself, the incision of the cornea is completed downwards, at an equal distance throughout from the margin. The eyelids are then allowed to close, in order to dilate the pupil. The hook is cautiously introduced under the flap, and directed into the capsule, which should be freely rupturecL The eyelids are again closed, and when they are opened a few seconds afterwards, the lens may probably be found lying in the wound, or exterior to it If it does not soon appear, very gentle pressure may be made on the ball, with the intervention of the upper eyelid. But if any doubts are entertained as to the capsule being ruptured, or the aperture of the cornea being sufficiently large, it is much safer to remedy these defects of the operation by re-introducing the hook in the former case, and a knife or scissors in the latter, than to endeavour to compensate for them by forcibly compressing the eyeball. The after-treatment consists in confining the patient for several days to a dark room, enforcing the strictest antiphlogistic regimen, and employing, without loss of time, the most active means of subduing inflammation, if signs of it should appear. The operation of breaking up the texture of the lens may be per- formed either through the cornea, (Keratonyxis) or through the sclerotic (Scleroticonyxis.) In the former way, a small straight needle is the best instrument, and in the latter, if the cataract is soft or fluid, the cimved one used for couching, but if it is firm, the edge should be straight and sharp. The pupil ought always to be fully dilated, and the eye, as well as the patient, prepared for the operation in the manner already explained in regard to couching. The needle should be introduced at the distance of a line from the sclerotic or cornea, according as it is wished to operate anteriorly or posteriorly. It should be directed to the centre of the cataract, and made to lacerate its texture as extensively as possible. It has been found that the fi*agments disappear sooner in the anterior than in the posterior chambers, and therefore they ought to be urged forwards into it. The process of amendment goes on a long while, extending to weeks and months after this operation, but one or more repetitions of it are frequently required before the cure is