304 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. The symptoms arc those indicative of extravasation of the intestinal matters; and the result is surely fatal, almost always within the short period that has been already mentioned. It is important to know that the bladder, when much distended with urine, may be rujitured very readily, as by falling on the floor or the corner of a table,—since death occiuring in such circumstances may give rise to very serious questions in medical jurisprudence. Urinary effu- sion from this source sometimes does not prove fatal before the lapse of several days, and in a case that came under my own ob- servation the patient survived a week. Paracentesis AbdommLs. The abdomen is punctured for the removal of dropsical collec- tions of serous fluid in the cavity of the peritoneum, and for the evacuation of cysts developed in the ovary, which grow so large as to occasion distension of the abdomen. The circumshinces of thcs(? diseases, which denote the propriety of paracentesis, need not be con- - sidered here ; and it will be sufficient to explain the mode of per- forming the operation. The instruments employed for this purpose consist of a trocar and cannula. The point of the trocar may be either in the form of a three-sided pyramid, or have a flattened heart-shaped figure with two cutting edges. The cannula of the former is round, that of the latter flat; the first is generally employed, and ought to be preferred, es])ecially in cases of ovarian dropsy, where the fluid is often very thick and viscid. See Plato III. Fig. 2. In introducing the three-sided instrument, it was formerly the custom to make a preliminary incision through the integuments with a sciilpel; but this is quite unnecessary, and the flat one may of course be still more readily pushed through the whole of the parietes at once. Two situations have been chiefly selected for the operation ; one in the Imea alba, about an inch below the umbilicus ; the other, in the linen semilunaris, at a ])oint between, and equidistant from, the umbilicus and superior anterior spinous process of the ilium. The former of these ought certainly to be preferred, since thei’c is here no danger whatever of wounding either the vessels or viscera,— wdiile, in endeavouring to puncture through the linen semilunaris, the surgeon runs a risk of injuring the c})igastric artery, which, owing to the unequal resistance of the anterior and lateral portions of the abdominal })arietes to the force of distension, comes to run nearly in the middle, between the umbilicus and spinous process.