AMPUTATION. 155 The blade of the knife employed should be about six inches long, and half an inch broad, sharp at the ])oint, and blimt on the back. The tourniquet ought to be applied immediately above the ankle, having compresses placed over the posterior and anterior tibial ai’teries. The siu-geon should measure with his eye the middle dis- tance between the malleolus extemus and the head of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, which is the situation of the articulation be- tween the os cuboides and os calcis. Placing his fore-finger here, he ought to fix Ins thxmib on the other side of the foot directly op- posite, which will show liim where the os naviculare and astragalus ai’e connected. An incision somewhat curved with its convexity forwai-ds is then to be made from one of these points to the other, when, instead of proceeding to disarticulate, the operator should transfix the sole of the foot from side to side at the extremities of the first incision, and carry the knife forwards, so as to detach a suf- ficient flap, which must extend the whole length of the metatarsus to the balls of the toes. The disarticulation may finally be com- pleted with great ease, as the shape of the articular sui-faces con- cerned is very simple, and nearly transverse. The external plantar, anterior tibial, and any other arteries that require to be secured, must then be tied, and the flap having been secured in its place by a few stitches, some light cfressing ought to be applied. During the ciue the knee ought to be kept bent to relax the gastrocnemius. In amputating the Deg, it would serve no good puiqiose to pre- serve more than the half of its length, since a stmnp of this extent is quite sufficient for retaining the use of the knee-joint; and if the operation were performed lower, it would be hardly possible to provide a good covering for the bones. A touniiquet having been applied to the i)opliteal artery, the knife should be introduced close to the edge of the fibuhi, and pushed directly through the limb, so as to make its exit at the same distance from the fibular edge of the tibia, as its entrance, which will leave about a third of the cir- cumference of the leg for the breadth of the flap, and then carried downwards, gradually approacliing the surface, so as to form a smooth convex-edged flap, somewhat longer than it is broad. A cut should then be made transversely between the two upper ex- tremities of the first one, and slightly curved, so as to form the edge of the integmuents suitiibly for uniting with that of the flaj). The inter-osseous parts being next cut, the saw is to be a lied with light, but ste^y strokes, so as to cut through the fibula, be-