394 PRIXCITLES OF SURGERY. which even when thus restricted in its employment, is not fi-ec from the danger of doing harm, I prefer the liydriodate of potass, in the dose of two grains taken three times a-day. The local treatment must be varied according to the circum- stances of the case. In the first instance, as soon as possible after the appearance of the disease, it is pro])cr to destroy the morbid action of the ])art by touching it with the nitrate of silver; and then the black wash, or a solution of sulphate of copper, containing two grains in an ounce, may be ajjplied on a piece of lint. If the orifice of the prepuce is contracted so as to j)revent it from being drawn back, the black-wash should be injected fo^ir or five times a-day, which is better than laying oj)cn the fore-skin, as the cut surfiice is sure to take on a similar action with that of the ulcers, and thus prolong the cure. When the sore has a phagedenic cha- racter, a bread and milk poultice is generally the most useful ap- })licatioii in the first instance, for a few days, and then a strong so- lution of sid])hate of copper, containing two scruples to the ounce, used merely to moisten the surface once a-day, with some milder lotion in the intervals, proves most efficient in arresting the pro- gress of the ulceration, as well as promoting granulation. The disposition to slough depends on excessive irritability, which in ge- neral is owing to too great power of action, and requires mejisures of depletion, together with those of a soothing kind. Leeching, scarifying, fomenting, and poulticing, acetate of lead, and watery solutions of opium, are the means found most useful for this j)ur- pose, and all of them, except the two first, may be used with ad- vantage also when the irritability is associated with weakness of the ]>art. If secondary symptoms appear, they ought to be treated merely on the ordinary principles which guide the practice in regard to them when proceeding from other causes. In affections of the skin and throjit, the common blue pill, and the compound calomel ])ill, are the best forms of exhibiting mercury so as to obtain its altera- tive effects. But it is much better to abstain from mercury alto- gether, and either trust entirely to local means, together with a suitable regimen, or ernjdoy iodine in some of the forms in which it is usually pi’escribed. The simple solution of the liydriodate of potass seems to me the most convenient.. In affections of the pe- riosteum or bones, which, as already mentioned, never occur iu a severe form except when the jiatient has suffeml from the mercu- rial influence, iodine is also found eminently useful, the appro-