502 explaxatton of the plates. Fig. 4. The tube that should be inserted after the operation of tracheotomy. Fig. 5. A sharp-pointed curved bistoury that will be found very suitable for opening abscesses, dividing the stricture in paraphymosis, open- ing the passage in fistula lacrymails, &c. PLATE IV. Fig. ]. Curved forceps for removing foreign bodies impacted in the pha- rynx or gullet. Fig. 2. Forceps with ring-shaped points that prove very useful for remov- ing foreign bodies lodged in the nostrils, &c. Fig. 3. Double hook forceps, for assisting in the removal of haemorrhoids, enlarged tonsils, &c. Fig. 4. Forceps for the removal of polypus from the nose. PLATE V. Shows the section of a very large urinary calculus in the Anatomiad Mu- seum of the University. The nucleus of uric acid is surrounded by successive layers of oxalate of lime, uric acid, and the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia. The distinctive characters of these different formations will be readily recognized. PLATE VI. Fig. 1. The apparatus for treating fracture of the thigh by means of the long splint of Desault. Fig. 2. The same completely applied, the sheet in which the splint is fold- ed being brought round the limb, and fastened so as to render it im- moveable. PLATE VII. Fig. 1. Shows the new bone that is fm med in a case of necrosis to take the ))lace of the old shaft, which lies enclosed in an osseous shell, and may be seen through the cloaca or apertures remaining in it. Fig. 2. Necrosis of the tibia at an earlier stage, where the new bone may be di.stinctly seen beginning to be formed in the periosteum at inde- pendent points of the membrane, which still retains its ordinary cha- racters, with the exception of being thicker and more vascular than usual PLATE VIII. Fig. 1. A portion of the radius of a dog removed after being detached from the periosteum, which was permitted to remain. Fig. 2. The radius and ulna of the same dog six w'eeks after a similar por- tion of the radius was removed along with the periosteum. Fig. 3. The other radius and ulna of the same dog six weeks after the por- tion, Fig. 1, Avas removed without the periosteum being taken away. Fig. 4. A section of the la.st mentioned radius, showing how completely the lo.ss of os.seous suhstance had been restored.