EXTERNAL INJURIES, 143 in proof of it are so striking and well authenticated, that when cir- cumstances permit, this means should certainly be combined with the others. The arsenite of potass, or Fowler’s solution, is the most convenient preparation for the purpose, and it appears that very large doses, even to the extent of two drachms, may be given every half hour.* The morbid poisons originating iir diseased action, which affect the human species, may all be produced by the human body ; but two of them, cow-pox and hydrophobia, were in the first instance derived from the lower animals. They exist both in the liquid and in the gaseous state. In the former they hardly act unless insert- ed or inoculated into the texture of the body. In the latter they produce their effects when received into the lungs during inspira- tion. It is only the first or inoculated poisons which belong to the surgical department. They always ocension more or less irritation of the part to which they are applied, and generally afterwai’ds more or less constitutional disturbance. Their modtis operandi is not at all known. They seldom cause any immediate local altera- tion ; and days, or even weeks, may elapse before there is any indication of their action. The constitutional (bsturbance follows, and after being fairly instituted, it cannot be subdued by removing the part on wliich the morbid matter primarily acted. The effect of some of these poisons will be more particularly considered here- after. At present it may be observed, that the treatment proper for them in the first instance requires to be merely local, and should be conducted on the same principles of prevention, as that of natural poisons. In regard to hydrophobia, it is believed that, if the injured part be cut out, or otherwise removed, any time before the constitutional symptoms appear, the patient will be certainly protected from them. The poisonous effects of dead animal matter are involved in considerable obscurity. It frequently happens that wounds re- ceived in the dissection of animals after death, whether for anato- mical investigation or the preparation of food, are followed by trou- blesome consequences, both local and general. It is observed that those which have a punctured form are most apt to be so. Some- times there is violent inflammation of one or, all the tissues in tlie neighbourhood, from the skin to the bone, terminating speedily in suppuration or sloughing. In the finger this constitutes what is called paronychia or wliitlow. The absorbent vessels leading from the injured part often inflame, and by propagating their morbid ■* Ireland Med. Chinirg. Trans. Vol. ii, p. 396.