PRINCIPI.ES OF SURGERY. 268 In those uncoimnoii cases where tlie oesoj)hagus is cut, the patient must be fed through a tube, unless the opening in tlie coats of the canal should be so small as to render this unneces- sary. The medical treatment of cut-throat is always extremely im- portant. There is generally great cerebral excitement,—the de- sire for self-destruction frequently continues in operation,—and the profuse hemorrhage wdiich sometimes happens exposes the pa- tient to the danger of excessive reaction. It shoidd be recollected also, that the irritation of the wound may occasion swelling of the pharynx, and other deep-seated parts of the throat, adverse to free respiration, and may lead to bronchitis, more or less acute. Every source of bodily or mental excitement must therefore be strictly guarded against, while bleeding, counter-irritation, opiates, and antimony, are employed according to circumstances. And whenever it seems, from the efforts of the patient or the sound of his respira- tion, that the air does not obtain a sufficiently free entrance, an opening into the trachea must be effected without delay. Tracheotomy ami Larymjotomy. These titles are used to express operations, of which the object is to admit air into the lungs, when the natural passage is obstructed, or to extract foreign bodies that have entered it. The diseases chiefly productive of obstruction, are croup, oedema ylottidis, and ulceration of the larynx. The membranous crust, which is effused in croup, and occasions the diminution of the air-ptissage, is gene- rally of great extent—stretching from the larynx down the trachea into the bronchial tubes, and is so rarely limited within those bounds below which an aperture can be made, that an operation in this case must be regarded as almost desperate. (Kdema ylottidis, though not a very uncommon affection, has been only recently re- cognized by pathologists ; but through the striking descrij)tions of ]\I. Bayle and Mr Lawrence,* together with the frequent notice of it by later writers, is now so well known to the profession, that any account of its symptoms or progress would here be equally unne- cessary aud out of place. It is sufficient to observe, that in this case the obstruction is nearly or altogether confined to the rima ylottidis, the lips of which are thickened by infiltration of serous effusion, so as greatly to impede inspiration, though they stdl allow of expiration being performed with moderate facility; and that, • Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. W. 1815.