PELVIS. 335 summit of the ulcer, after which the incision is completed. It thus resembles that which has been described above for the remedy of Fissures, and requires the same treatment, or, rather, is equally independent o f any. Foreign Bodies in the Rectum, Foreign bodies are introduced into the rectum, either by de- scending through the intestinal canal, or by being forced through the anus. They are prevented from escaping by their size, or shape, or by both of these circumstances. Concretions of indigestible matters, swallowed along with the food, or indurated masses of the ordinary feculent substance, may obstruct the gut Fish bones and other hard bodies of a spicular form, after passing through the whole length of the intestines, are sometimss detained by the sphincter ani. Pieces of wood, glass, earthen-ware, and other mat- ters, have been accidentally lodged in the rectum, by patients en- deavouring to procure evacuation of their bowels, and still more rude articles have been forced into it in consequence of falls on the breech. The symptoms of com’se vary with the bulk and fi- gure of the foreign body. If it merely obstructs the passage, the patient suffers only from constipation, together with more than usual uneasiness and sensation of weight in the region of the rec- tum, and if the coats of the gut are punctured or lacerated, the additional symptoms of bloody mucus, or blood discharged by stool, and pain more or less acute, will indicate the nature of the case. But the only method of acquiring certain Information as to the state of matters, is to make an examination with the finger, and this ought always to be done when there is any reason to suspect the ex- istence of a local cause of irritation or obstruction in the rectum. For effecting the removal of foreign bodies fi’om the rectum, dif- ferent means must be employed, according to the circumstanees of the case. Feculent masses should be softened by repeated injec- tions of soap and water,—after which they are, if possible, to be broken down with a scoop, the handle of a spoon, or forceps, or, if this cannot be effected, extracted entire by the same means. Hard, pointed substances are best withdrawn by straight or slight- ly curved forceps, guided with the finger so as first to dislodge, and then extract them. If they cannot be got out entire, anotlier pair of forceps should be employed to break them into fragments, while the principal portion is held steady with those first introdu- ced. When the difficulty proves extreme, it will be much better