ABDOMEN, 307 far, but cannot be separated lower without cutting them. The fascia tendinosa (tendon of the external oblique) before uniting with the others, turns back upon itself downwards, so as to present a thick round border like a hem, which has led to the erroneous appella- tion of ligament (Poupart, Fallopius,) to this part. The internal oblique and transverse muscles lie between the fascia tendinosa and fascia transversalis. Their fibres at this part are intimately con- nected, and constitute but an inconsiderable mass of muscular sub- stance ; they are attached to the junction of the fasciae all the way from the spinous process to about a third of its length from the pubis. The vas deferens and other vessels which compose the spermatic cord meet together on the outer surface of the perito- neum, about midway between the spinous process and pubis, and about half an inch above Pouj)art’s ligament They here perfo- rate the fascia transversalis, not through a well-defined aperture, but by carrying a thin funnel-like projection of it along with them. Descending obliquely towards the pubis, they become united with some fibres of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, which constitute the cremaster muscle. Having thus escaped from un- der the edge of these muscles, the cord passes through the fascia tendinosa at a sort of slit-like opening about an inch and a quarter long, that extends from the tuberosity of the pubis between the body of the fascia and its inverted margin. From the edge of this slit, which is named the external ring, a thin fascia is continued over the cremaster muscle; and the cord then proceeds into the scrotum, covered by an extension of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, which is continued along with it. The epigastric artery rises from the iliac nearly opposite Poupart’s ligament, and run- ning in the direction of the lunbilicus, between the peritoneum and fascia transversalis, crosses the cord about the middle of the inguinal canal, having nothing interposed except the fascia just mentioned- Inguinal hernia either descends along the whole course of the cord, or protrudes directly through the external ring. In the for- mer case it is named Inguinal or External Inguinal, and in the lat- ter Ventro-Insrulnal or Internal Inguinal. Whether of the one kind or the other, it may either remain confined in its extent to the groin, or getting lower down, distend the scrotum or labium. In the first of these situations it is denominated Bubonocele, and in the others Scrotal or Pudendal Herniji, according to circum- stances, There is an important modification of Inguinal hernia