213 JOINTS. The means that afford most relief from the pain directly caused by the injury, consist in the application of hot fomentations and the preservation of perfect rest. The ecchymosis is often considered a warrant for leeching or cupping ; hut, as has been already explained, the blood which produces the discoloration being effused from the vessels, cannot be withdrawTi in this way, and must be re- moved by absorption. If symptoms of inflammation come on, blood should be abstracted freely, both locally,and generally, and the other means employed that will be mentioned when the inflamma- tion of joints is considered. After the injured part has ceased to be painful on pressure or motion, and remains merely swelled and stiflj it ought to be compressed with a bandage, and at the same time have some stimulating ointment or lotion applied to promote absorption. Blistering, warm pumping, the vapoiu’-bath, friction, and gentle, but frequently repeated exercise, are iiseful at the same time, and with the same view. Dislocation. By Dislocation is understood displacement of the respective sur- faces of an articulation. The dislocation may be partial or com plete; and also simple or compound, in the same sense of these terms as when they are used with reference to fractures. It is simple dislocations only which will be considered under this sec- tion, as those which are compound may be arranged more conve- niently under wounds of the joints. The joints least subject to strains are most readily dislocated, since the mobility .and looseness of lig.amentons connection which pro- tect them from the former injury expose them to the latter. The cir- cumstance of having been formerly dislocated increases the predispo- sition, The causes of dislocation are, 1. external violence; 2. inordinate muscular action ; and, 3. diseased alteration of the ar- ticular apjwiratus. The displacements which proceed from the last of these causes are named spontaneous dislocations, and will be considered along with the diseases which give rise to them. The process of dislocation usually consists of two stages or acts; there being first the displacement of the articulating surfaces which results directly from the violence that causes the accident; and then a farther separation of them by the action of the muscles which for- merly held the bones together, but now pull them past each other. These two steps are sometimes designated by the names of primary ■and secondary dislocations.