391 GENITAL OUGANS. when injured, and, if large, attended with a very foetid discharge. If small, their absorption may be readily induced by a slight appli- cation of aromatic vinegar once every two or three days. Various other fluids, powders,- and ointments have been employed for this ])urpose ; but the one that hjis been mentioned seems to be, on the whole, the best When the warts are large, they should be cut away with scissors close to the sound skin, and even when but of small size, they are removed in this way more quickly as w^ell as effectually. Sores on the Penis. The penis, like every other part of the body, is liable to become the seat of ulceration; and its pendulous position, mobility, and ])roneness to erection, much oppose the healing process. With few exceptions, the sores which are the seat of this morbid action result from venereal intercourse; being either simply abrasions or lacera- tions, or the consequence of the irritation of poisonous matter ap- })lied to the organ. The former are usually called excoriations, and the latter chancres. The poison gives rise to the ulcer by formiUg, in the first instance, a small abscess or pustule, which, opening in a few days, leaves a breach in the surface. If an exco- riation, at the time of its production, is exposed to the influence of irritating matter, it then exhibits the same characters as if of poison- ous origin. The sores of botli kinds are generally seated on the lining membrane of the prepuce, near its reflexion on the glans, at its orifice, and at the sides of the froenum ; being more rarely found on the glans itself, or the body of the penis. When resulting from poison, they are generally small, round, or oval, and excavated, having the base as well as the margin condensed by an interstitial effusion of lymph, and affording a viscid discharge. When caused by violence, they are usiaally of an irregular figure, and surrounded with more or less hardness, according to the irriUition which they have sxiffered from the matter applied to them. The surface of both kinds is generally grey, yellowish, or ash-coloured, and shows no appearance of granulations. The pain is very variable. When the sore is in a highly irritable state it usually presents either a phagedenic or sloughing character. In the former case the ulcer, whitdi is generally seated on the body of the penis, is round, shal- low, and very abrupt at the margin, which is red, while the sur- rounding integuments arc not altered from their ordinary state. It is very painful, and increases progressively, preserving the cha-