27 IKFI.AMMATIOX. sistcnce Indicates that its effect is sufficient. In eitiier case, after the action of the caustic is completed, a poultice ought to be ap- plied until the portion of skin that has been destroyed separates, when some foreign substances, such as those already mentioned, must be introduced to prevent the opening from closing. The ac- tual cautery is the best method of the whole, since the breach which it occasions requires no means for keeping it open, and does not heal until after many weeks or montlis, or healing applications are em- ployed. The pain is severe but almost momenttiry, and, on the whole, much less than that of the caustic; while the counter-irritating effect is found to be greater than that of any of the other means. The iron should have a sharp edge, not more than the eighth of an inch broad, in order to burn the skin deeply, or rather through its whole thickness, since, imless this be done, in adults at least, the effect is very inconsiderable and of short duration. It should be used as hot as possible. Counter-irritation may be effected also by moxa. This consists in bmming small cones of the doAvn of the Artemisia, or what answers equally well, provided the combustion be maintained by a blow- pipe or bellows, raw cotton made into cylinders from one to two in- ches wide and three-quarters of an inch thick. Every degi^ee of irritation may be thus produced from the slightest reddening to the most complete burning—but it is difficult to regulate the effect, and there seems to be no advantage in attempting to do so, as the other means which have been mentioned are more under command, and at least equally efficacious. Acupuncturation,—This remedy for inflammation must stand by itself. It consists in the inti’oduction of slender needles from one to tlmee inches in length into the inflamed part by a. gentle rota- tory motion. No respect is paid in doing tliis to the importance of the organs, and the heart, stomach, arteries, and nerves have all, it is said, been transfixed without any ceremony, though fatal consequences are reported to have sometimes resulted from this rash practice. No pain or other symptoms of irritation are in ge- neral produced, and, on the contrary, a diminution of the inflam- matory indications is alleged to be frequently observed. This ]>rac- tice is of ancient origin, and held in much esteem" in eastern coun- tries, where, as in China and Japan, its employment is said to con- stitute a distinct department of the surgicid profession. Some years ago it was tried pretty extensively in France and also in tliis coun- try, but it now seems to be going, or rather to have already gone,