9 INFLAMMATION’. It is always bright and florid; and also, that if the enlargehicnt ol vessels necessarily implies debility, blushing, the turgescencc of glands, and the erection of the penis must then be considered the eflects or indications of debility. John Hunter, in defining inflammation, said it was simply an in- creased action of the vessels ;* wisely observing that dilatation was as much an evidence of power as contraction. This defini- tion, however, is plainly open to objection, for tlie symptoms, which have been mentioned above, clearly show that the natural actions during inflammation are not merely increased but altered. And here it may be noticed, that a great mistake has been committed in constructing theories of inflammation, by limiting them to the explanation of the least important though certainly the most ob- vious symptoms, viz. the redness and swelling, while the heat, pain, and disturbance of the vital action, whether nutritive or functional, have been treated with neglect. As the secretory and various other important actions, which suf- fer derangement diu'ing inflammation, depend in their he<ilthy state upon the nervous energ}’, or power of life, and as all ohr efforts have proved insufficient to approach the truth more nearly in their exj)lanation than by referring them to this source, we must be siitis- fied with doing the same in regard to their derangements; and being thus obliged to admit, as the essence of inflammation, dis- tiurbance in the nervous energy of the part, we may employ this also to account for the changes observed in the circulation, wliich have never been satisfactorily explained otherwise. The various local determinations or flows of blood so constant- ly ocenn’ing in blushing, secretion, the turgescence of the erectile tissue, the growth of tumours, the fonnation of the foetus, &c. })lainly prove that the motion of the blood is not entirely owing to, or under the control of, the heart When physiologists began to recover from the first dazzling effect of Harvey’s brilliant discovery, they saw the necessity of taking into account some other motive power besides that of the heart, and much dispute has since exist- ed as to the respective shares of it which ought to be assigned to the arteries, and their capillary terminations. It would be easy to show that any supposed conditions of these vessels as to (;n- largement or contraction, however energetic or alternated, are in- adeipiatc to account for the phenomena in question, and that we • P.278.