INF I-AMMATION. 15 The fact is well known to the vulgar, who have in consequence the greatest dread of interfering with local complaints ot long-stand- ing, especially such of them as are attended with discharges. This prejudice is no doubt generally carried too far; but it should be carefidly recollected, that excited and disordered action of a part, which has from habit ceased to irritate the system, cannot be sud- denly removed without the risk of causing general derangement Thus, when disease of a bone has occasioned the discharge of mat- ter for a number of years, amputation, especially in adults, is found to be almost certainly fatol. 3. All parts of the body do not sympathize with equal readiness, —but seem to be influenced by continuity of texture, contiguity of situation, and participation in the. same function. As examples, may be mentioned the connection which is very frequently observ- ed between affections of the mucous membrane at different parts of the body—the suppm*ation of the cheek which is apt to be caused by the irritation of a decayed tooth—and the fellow-sxxffering which is displayed by the breast and uterus in the derangements of each other. 4. Excited action of one part may take the place of that in an- other, the system seeming inadequate to the support of both. This translation of disease from one part to another is named Metastasis, and constitutes a most important principle of practice, as being tbe foundation of what is called counter-irritation, or the excitement of artificial disease for the relief of others more incon- venient or dangerous, as in the common case of a blister being ap- plied to the chest to relieve disturbance of the lungs. 5. Pain, hemorrhage, inflammation, increased nutrition, and ex- cited secretion, take the place of each other, so that they may be regarded as equivalents of action. Thus, in the disease named tic douloureux, an intensely painftil affection, which usually proceeds from derangement of the mucous secretions, the most effectual re- lief is obtained by causing copious discharges from the bowels through the operation of powerful purgatives. The monthly dis- charges of blood from females ceases when the nutrition of the foe- tus in ute.ro commences—or when a large tumour is formed in any jiart of the body ; it also does not appear while the secretion of milk continues; and when, independently of these conditions, it ceases to appear, local inflammation, as that of the eye, is apt to occur. The local abstraction of blood and the establishment of suppiu’ating sur- faces are every day practised for the counteraction of inflammation.