PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 210 backwards. However for the disease may proceed, the limbs and pelvis remain free from any participation in it. In ascertaining the cause and nature of this curvature, the fol- lowing circumstances, which attend, its commencement, must be carefully recollected:—1. It occurs almost exclusively in females, who devote a large proportion of their time, during the period when the morbid disposition exists, to the pursuits usually followed in undergoing a fashionable education, or to some sedentary occu- ])ation, which does not require or permit much bodily exertion. 2. It usually affects most seriously those Individuals who possess a slender frame, or one characterized by indications of a phlegmatic temperament,—their bodies, though large and bulky, being pale, flabby, and prone to all morbid sfotes depending on M'cakness of action. 3. Other things being equal, it occurs most certainly, and proceeds most rapidly, when the trunk is habitually maintained in a bent position. The predisposition to the disease, therefore, appears to be con- stitutional weakness, and its exciting causes, circimistances which increase the weakness of the spine particularly, and promote its bending by the figure they make it assume. The strength of the spine depends partly upon the bones, and partly upon the muscles composing it; and it is probable that the fonner are chiefly affected by the predisposition, wliilc the latter are influenced more by the exciting causes. All muscles require frequent exercise for the preservation of their strength; but, diming the occupations of drawing, playing, sewing, &c. while the extremities are either con- stantly employed, or, at all events, unrestrained in their movements, the trunk is not only held perfectly steady in one position, often a curved one, but is also compressed with the rigid articles of dress which are used under the erroneous expectation of inqiroving the shape. The muscles of the back, therefore, becoming extremely weak, and, indeed, as may be leai’iicd by actual examination, almost completely absorbed, are no longer able to restore the erect posi- tion of the spine when bent by the weight of the head and superior extremities, or by the occupation of the patient. It consequently assumes a permanent curve; and then the predisposition, which depends on a softened state of the bone, acts with full effect; be- cause the more the column bends, the longer levers are afforded to the superincumbent pressure. As the distortion increases, the viscera of the thorax and abdomen arc more and more compressed and displaced, their functions suffer corrresponding derangement