400 riiiNCiri.Es OF suuGEiiy. of the disease having been permitted to exist a number of days, in which case, just as in hernial protrusions tliat prove irreducible after the stricture has been divided, the completion of the operation must be trusted to the gradual effects of that tendency to repara- tion, which is exerted by the system. The penis should be euve- loj)ed in lint moistened with acetate of lead lotion, and the patient ought to maintain the horizontal postm*e, until the parts resume their natural condition. Cancer of the Penis. The penis is sometimes, but very rarely, the seat of cancer. Ulcers on it often assume the most alarming appearance, and ex- hibit extreme indisposition to heal, in consequence of constitutional peculiarities, especially that induced by the prejudicial use of mer- cury ; but such sores must be carefully distinguished from those of a truly carcinomatous nature. The latter are only m'et with in ])ersons of advanced age. They are characterized by the inequality of their surface, the cartilaginous hardness of their base, their fetid discharge, and lancinating pain. The inguinal and iliac glands become affected in the progress of the disease, and the patient dies hectic fi’om continued irritation. The only remedy that affords any prospect of a radical ciue is removal of the morbid part, and this, of com'se, only when the glands are untainted. The oj)eration, therefore, ought to be jier- formed without delay, as soon as the disease is distinctly recognized to be of this malignant kind. The penis may be amj)iitated with- out any ceremony,—care only being taken that the whole of the disease is biken away, together with a portion of the neighbom’ing sound tissues. The integuments are more apt to prove redundant than defective, and therefore need not be saved by drawing them back previous to division. The arteries that require ligatures are to be tied, and the oozing of blood may be restrained by the application of cold water, or by effecting pressure on the stump after a flexible catheter luis been introduced into the bladder. Should the orifice of the urethra threaten to contract during the cure, a bougie must be introduced occiisionally to ])reser\ c its pro- per width.