186 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. over the opening sliould there be room for doing so, and if not, as is usually the case, he employs the cutting-pliers to enlarge the opening sufficiently. The process of extraction may sometimes be facilitated by dividing the sequestrum into pieces. Exjoliations of the whole thickness.— Bones die thi-oughout their whole thick- ness from causes similar to those which induce exfoliation of their external or in- ternal surface, and the dead 'portion se- pcU-ates from the living by the same pro- cess of absorption that occurs in such cases; but the state of the bones, after the cure is completed, requires in this case particulai* consideration. Sometimes the place of the dead part is not at all, or very imperfectly supplied, as in the case here represented, in wliich I per- formed amputation on account of the limb remaining useless; at other times its se- paration could hardly be suspected from any change visible in the shape or size of the bone affected. In order to account for this remarkable difference, it is ne- cessary to inquire into the circumstances of the cases in which it is exliibited. When the dead bone is detached, in some cases, the remaining surface merely granulates, just as after the separation of an exfoliation which extends only j)ar- tially through the whole thickness, and elFiises sufficient osseous matter to round off the edges, thus lessening the extent of the gap, but still leaving a ])ormanent deficiency at the j)art. The same result ensues when a portion of bone, including its whole thickness, is removed mechani- cally. But at other times, the dead portion is fonud to 1x3 contained witliin a more or less complete case of new bone, which is ready to take the j)lace of the old one whenever it is removed, by contracting its sides together so as to become a solid mass. (Plate VII. Fig. 1.) It was formerly siqiposed that the death and reproduction of an entire shaft, in this way, was a very common event, all cases of in- ternal exfoliation being regarded as instances of its occurrence, and