491 NOSK. operations in which the parietes of the cavity are concerned. Spontaneous bleeding is generally suppressed by applying cold to the forehead, or introducing a piece of lint, moistened with spirits or some astringent saline solution, into the nostrils. The same means usually prove sufficient when mechanical violence lias been the exciting cause. But, in both cases, it occasionally happens that more efficient measures are required; the blood, though pre- vented from flowing through the anterior openings of the nose, being observed to trickle down into the throat It is then neces- sary to close the posterior nares also, by introducing a piece of sponge or lint Tliis may be,done in various ways, and instruments have been contrived for the purpose; but the most convenient method is, to pass a probe or loop of wire, curved to the form of the palate, through the nose into the pharynx, and then draw it out of the mouth, conveying by its means a piece of strong liga- ture, about a foot and a-half in length. A compress of lint, large enough to obstruct the posterior opening of the nostril, is next tied securely to the middle of the thread which issues from the mouth. The other end being pulled, this plug is drawn backwards, and, with the assistance of the operator’s left fore-finger, is lodged be- hind the soft palate, at the nasal orifice. The two ends of the thread are then secured; and when it is judged safe to remove the plug, the thread that lies in the mouth affords the ready means of doing so. Polypus of the Nose. Tumours of several difierent kinds are met with in the nasal ca- vities ; and though comprehended under the general denomination of polypus, must be carefully discriminated in regard to their prog- nosis and treatment The most common of these growths possess a soft, but rather tough consistence, and yellowish-grey colour; they bleed slightly when injured, and have not much sensibility ; they often contun collections of limpid fluid, so as to constitute thin bags. These are named Simple, Mucous, or Benign Polyj)i. They grow from the raucous membrane generally, where it covers the upper part of the nostrils, sometimes where it lies upon the inferior spongy bone, but never from the septum. They seldom exist singly, and are often met with in great numbers together. One nostril is very rarely affected alone. They occur at all pe- riods of life, but arc most frequent about middle age. They en- large until the cavity is filled, and then remain stationary, rarely