PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 50 round the margin, and is at first generally elevated above the pro- per level, to which it usually descends afterwards, owing to the con- traction that takes place subsequently to its completion. This kind of ulcer occurs in parts which possess weak powers of > action, either on their own account or on that of the system. I The general weakness is most frequently observed in children ; but i may be induced at any age, by deficient nourishment, an unwhole- | some atmosphere, &c. The local weakness may depend on ob- struction of the blood or nervous energy, the cause which occasion- ed the ulcer, or simply on the duration of the healing process. With regard to the second of these it may be stated, that wherever the solution of continuity is effected by means which injime the parts concerned, as by lacerating, bruising, or burning them, it displays the characters of a weak idcer; and, as to the last, it is sufficient to observe, that every ulcer tends to become defective in action during the process of cure; so that, if considerable in size, it is sm*e, sooner or later, to display the features indicative of this condition. The treatment of w'eak ulcers consists in employing pressure, together with stimulating and astringent applications locally; and, if necessar}', strengthening the system by the administration of wine, bark, bitters, and nourishing diet. Of the local applica- tions, ointments used to be most employed, but the preference is now generally given to various metallic solutions, such as those of the sulphate of zinc, acetate of lead, and sulphate of copper, in the proportion of from one to three grains to the omice. It seems probable that the moist nature of these applications is of more consequence, in producing the effect desired, than the sub- stances dissolved in them, since w'ater alone answ'ers very well for the purpose. These washes, as they are called, ought to be varied occasionally, as habit lessens their effect; and with the same view a poultice ought to be applied from time to time. Pressure is al- ways useful, and ought to be exerted by proper bandages. Several folds of lint moistened with the wtish should be laid over the sore ; and thin sheet-lead cut to the size of it and laid over the lint is also very advantageous. Between the lint and bandage it is ])roper to interpose a piece of oiled silk, to jirevent the lotion from soaking away and leaving the sore dry. The Indolent or Callous Ulcer is distinguished by a smooth sim- face, generally depressed, and having no appearance of gramda- tions, of various colours, brown, gi-ey, or white, and looking as if