190 ruiNcin.Es or surgeuy. At present, professional opinion is divided in regard to the ossi- fic power of the periosteum, and different sides of tlie question are maintained by teachers and ^\Titers in this as well as other schools of medicine. As the point in dispute is not merely a matter of cu- riosity, but one of gi-eat practical importance, it is very desirable that the truth should be ascertained. It would detain the Society | too long were I to show how the different opinions on this subject may influence the practice of surgery ; and I shall, therefore, pro- ' ' ceed to state the considerations which have completely satisfied my I own mind, and are, I think, sufficient to satisfy any one who is open ' to conviction, that though Duhamel was misled into many errors by the false analogy which he supposed to exist between wood and bone—in regard to the mode of their natural formation—the peri- osteum, nevertheless, does possess the power of producing new osse- ] ous substance in certain conditions of disease. The well-known and often-repeated experiment of Troja, whicli consisted in perforating the cavity and destroying the marrow of a bone, so as to kill it and cause the formation of a substitute in the ^ form of a shell surrounding the old one, M'as devised in imitation of a process which not imfrequently occurs spontaneously in the human | body. In this disease, which has been named Necrosis, a portion ^ of the old bone dies, and becomes surrounded by a new one. The new ^ shell is of a larger size and more irregular form than the old one, | which may be seen through a number of circidar apertures lying a ] prisoner witliin this structure, intended by Nature to serve as a sub- 1 stitute for it. Those who deny the ossific power of the periosteum < maintain, that in all such cases, whether resulting fi’om injury j)ur- posely inflicted with the view of experiment, or ])roceeding from dis- i eased action, a portion of the old bone remains alive, and serves j as the germ of a new one; that, in short, the formation of the new | bone is simply an expansion or growth from the remnant of the i old one, and that if merely the extremities of the bone affected re- ] main alive, they will prove sufficient for generating the substitute » shell. It is difficult to reconcile this explanation with the rapid growth and uniform tliickncss of the new bone; since, if its formation j)ro- ceeded from the extremities, the process should be slow aud ])ro- gressive towards the centre; but there is another objection still more conclusive against it. If the new bone is formed by a portion of the old one that remains alive, then the removal of a part by me- cbanical means shoixld be supplied from the same source. But in