PRINCIPLES OE SURGERY. 384 fore the fluid accumulates in sufficient quantity to occasion uneasi- ness enough for awakening the patient. The fear of punishment, or some other strong impression on the mind, may break this dis- agreeable habit, by inducing a more vigorous resistance on the part of the voluntary muscles situated at the neck of the bladder; since, as is well known, volition is not entirely suspended during sleep. A more powerful remedy, and one that seldom fails when the mor- bid disposition has no other source than that under consideration, is the application of a large blister over the sacrum and lower part of the loins. A very distressing incontinence is met with in per- sons of more advanced age, and often in the vigour of life, who have suflTered derangement of the nervous system, either from spon- taneous disease or the eflfects of external injury. The complaint is then usually associated with weakness of the inferior extremities, which betrays the nature of its origin, but it sometimes exists alone, and is of itself sufficient to render the patient miserable. Power- ful counter-irritation, especially that effected by the actual cautery applied on each side of the spinous processes of the lower lumbar vertebrae, affords the best chance of relief; and internal stimulants, as cantharides, may be conjoined with this practice, though there is seldom decided evidence of their exerting any beneficial influ- ence. Warm and cold bathing, frictions, and strict a tention to the preservation of general health, should at the same time be diligent- ly employed; and improvement must not be despaired of though it should be a long while of appearing. Incontinence is common in old age; but in this case is generally confined to the period of sleep, and may be prevented from proving troublesome by intro- ‘ ducing the catheter previous to the time of rest In extreme cases of incontinence, when there is a constant dribbling from the ure- thra, the patient may be rendered comj)aratively comfortable by at- taching to the penis an elastic bag of India rubber, provided with a plug or stop-cock, for allowing the urine to escape when a conve- nient opportunity occurs. Irritahilitij or Chronic Inflammation of the Bladder. This complaint is almost confined to males. It is characterized by frequent desire to make water, and inability to resist these calls, however incessant or inconvenient. The feeling before micturi- tion is generally more or less painful, and sometimes extremely so, whence stone or stricture is often supposed to be present, and this supposition leads to the introduction of instruments that greatly