SKIN. 447 left in their natural shape. After the edge of tne nail has effected an ulcerated breach, it prevents any step towards reparation, by causing irritation, which inflames and tliickens the soft parts con- cerned, so as to make them overlap more and more. Various me- thods were formerly employed in the treatment of this complaint, which seldom did more than afford temporary palliation; qf these may be mentioned, cutting away the overhanging edge of skin, toucliing the ulcerated surface with caustic to destroy its morbid sensibility, interposing a plate of some sort between the edge of the nail and tlie ulcer, and scraping away the morbid part of the nail so as to make it very thin, in order to diminish the force with which it pressed upon the raw surface. M. Dupuytren devised an easy and effectual mode of treatment, which has superseded all the others.* This is to remove all that part of the nail which is con- nected with the idcer,—an operation that may be effected more readily than might be expected, by thrusting one blade of a pair of strong scissors close under the nail, and divitbng it quite up to the root, after which the portion that is to be removed being firmly seized with forceps, is twisted out with great ease. Should the nail be exciting irritation at both edges, it will be best to take away the whole of it, for which purpose the preliminary division ought to be made exactly in the middle. The wound should be dressed simply, and heals in a few days, in so far as to acquire a cuticular cover- ing. The nail then gradually extends over the surface it formerly occupied, and, unless subjected to improper j)ressure, occasions no farther inconvenience. Small Exostoses occasionally grow from the distal phalanx of the great toe, and also, but very seldom, from those of the other toes. They gene- rally form a tumour under the edge or extremity of the nail, and sooner or later seriously impede the use of the foot The nail, if necessary, hav- ing been removed, an incision should be made, first on one side, and then on the other, so as to embrace the root of the gi-owtb, and divide the soft parts covering it, after which it may be readily de- tached by strong scissors or cutting forceps. Onychia is an obstinate ulcer seated in the vascular stnicture that lies under the nail, and envelopes its root It is of small size * Repertoire d’Anatomic et dc Physiologic, T. i.