EYE. 465 there is hardly any well-authenticated case of its being accom- plished. Various methods have been contrived for performing the operation, but the best one seems to be, after dividing the commis- sure of the eyelids at the outer angle, in order to gain more room, to dissect out the tumour with a common scalpel, guiding it with the fore-finger of the left liand, which being interposed between the morbid surface and the edge of the instrument, insures the com- plete excision of the diseased mass. The orbit should be filled, but not stufifed, with lint; and, if the blood continues to flow, cloths wet with cold water may be applied over the face. Wlien suppu- ration commences, the lint ought to be withdrawm, and replaced by a little simple dressing. The cavity granulates and contracts, but the cure is tedious, and too frequently, before cicatrization is far advanced, the morbid growth reappears. Tumours of the Orbit. Medullary or cartilaginous growths from the bones, polypous excrescences from the nose, and tumours of independent origin, are occasionally met with encroaching on the cavity of the orbit, and causing a correspondent protrusion of the eye. Vision is generally impaired or destroyed by the stretching of the optic nerve thus oc- casioned, but is regained when the eye returns to its place, unless the organ has participated in the morbid action. Before resolving on the removal of an orbital tumour, it is necessary that its nature and connections should be carefully investigated, in order that an attempt at excision may not be made unless the morbid part can be completely extirpated. Fatty, fibrous, and encysted tumours, must be completely dissected out Polypous excrescences ought to be treated according to the principles that will be explained in rela- tion to the nose ; and growths from the bone should not be inter- fered with unless they proceed from the malar or superior maxillary portion of the orbit, so that the root is within reach. Eyelids. The eyelids are subject to a chronic inflammation named Oph- thalmia Tarsi, which chiefly affects their external edge at the roots of the cilia. The tarsal margin is swelled, red, and the seat of disagreeable itching. The eye-lashes are small, or altogether ab- sent. The eye is weak and watery. Children, especially those of scrofulous constitution, are most liable to this complaint, which generally proves extremely obstinate, in recurring again and agiiin