187 BONES. the expression Necrosis has been generally employed to denote this remarkable process. It might have been supposed that when only small sequestra made their appcarancej or were found on dissec- tion, decisive proof would have been afforded of the partial extent of the disease. But the general swelling of the limb, which is caus- ed by the irritation of an internal exfoliation, having led to the er- roneous belief that an entire new shell was forming ^bout the old bone, tbe non-appearance of a sequestrum, adequate to the suppos- ed extent of destruction, was accounted for by atti’ibuting its (bmi- nution or removal to the absorbing power of the vessels, or the sol- vent property of the pus. It is now well ascertained that the sc- qiiestrum cannot be acted upon in either of these ways; and that its size may, therefore, be safely token as a measure of the extent to which the bone has died. According to this test, it is found that the death and regeneration of an entire shaft, so far from being a very common occurrence, is an extremely rare one; and some pa- thologists, as Leveille, have gone so far as to deny it altogether, alleging that more or less of the external part of the old bone al- ways remains, and becomes expanded into the new shell. There can be no doubt, however, judging fi'om the size, shape, and smooth surface of the sequestrum, that it sometimes, though certainly very seldom, comprehends the whole tliickness and circumference of the shaft. The origin of the substitute in cases of this kind has been vari- ously ex])laincd. It must evidently proceed, 1. From gi-anulating action of the portion that remains. 2. From the old bone previous to its deatlu Or 3. From ossification of the periosteum or other surrounding tissues. The, first of these opinions has been supported by Kicherand and others, who regard as strongly in their favour the fiict, that more or less of the old shaft, and at all events the epiphysis, always remains. But in external exfoliations the granu- lating action seldom, if ever, fills Tip the breach; and when a con- siderable portion of the whole thickness of a bone is destroyed sud- denly by inflammation, or is removed by mechanical means, the loss of substance is in general not fully restored, which it ought to be, according to this view of the matter. In cases where no pennanent deficiency remains after the separation of the dead bone, it is gene- rally noticed tliat the limb becomes enlarged preidously to this event; and experiments on the lower animals, as well as observa- tions of what happens in the human body, tend to show that the new shell may begin to be formed before the death of the old shaft.