482 rniNcirLEs of surgery. it, as (luring sleep, it is often thought right to puncture the abscess. In doing this, tlie situation of the carotid artery must be kept in mind, as it would be exposed to injury, if the knife were directed outwards, in the line of the ear. If it is introduced a little nearer the mesial plane than the wisdom tooth, and pushed directly back- wards, there will be no possibility of wounding the vessel; and it • seems safer to proceed on this principle, than to confide in the in- strument w'hich has been long in use for this particular purpose, consisting of a lancet blade inclosed in a cannula, from which it may be protruded, more or less, by means of a screw at its other extremity. Ulceration of the tonsils is sometimes of an acute, but much more frequently of a chronic, nature. Astringent gargles, and at- . tention to the general health, are sufficient for its remedy in ordi- nary circumstances; but, when obstinate, it must be treated more actively, by touchiug the surface every day or two with the nitrate of silver, a strong solution of the sulphate of copjjer, or some other application powerful enough to change tlie morbid action. Along with these local measm’es, an alterative course of medicine and diet is frequently required. Chronic enlargement of the tonsils generally results from one or more attacks of inflammation. It occurs more frequently in fe- males than males, and usually takes place at or before the period of puberty. In most cases both of the glands are enlarged, but one, in general, exceeds the other in size. The swelling is firm in consistence, ])ale in colour, but often streaked with vessels, and unequal on its surface. There is great variety in the extent which the swelling attains, from the slightest perceptible fulness, to a magnitude that leaves hardly any sj)ace between the two tumours. The symptoms are, constant uneasiness in the throat, huskincss of the voice, noisy respiration, which is generally performed with the mouth open, and deafness, from obstruction of the Eustachian tubes. But what usually occasions the patient greatest annoyance, is the frequent attacks of sore throat to which the morbid state of the gland exposes liim; and he is seldom aware of the enlargement, until it is discovered by his medical attendant. The ordinai’y treatment for sore throat affords some palliation of this disease, but the only effectual remedy of it consists in re- moving the tumour. Caustic, the cautery, and the ligature, though they have all been often employed for this purpose, are decidedly less eligible means than the knife or scissors. The two first are