PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 288 order to alhay the apprehension of malignant disease, which gi’eat- ly aggravates the complaint by agitating the mind. The gland when cut into displays a somewhat whiter and denser structure than usual, and frequently also cysts of various size containing a limpid fluid. The operation is usually followed by an interval of complete relief, and sometimes by a permanent cure, but the cicatrix or neighbouring parts are apt to become the seat of sensations similar to, though seldom so severe, as those previously experienced, and for which the same soothing means ought to be employed. The milk abscess is a collection of purulent matter formed in the mamma during lactation. If, while the gland is in this active state, constitutional disturbance should be excited by exposure to cold, errors of diet, or any other circumstances, the fever thus in- duced is very apt to be attended with or followed by inflammation of the previously excited organ. The patient’s first intimation of indisposition is a rigor, accompanied with j)ain of the back, and hcadach, which is soon succeeded by heat of skin, quickness of pulse, loading of the tongue, and flushing of the face. At the same time the breast becomes red, tense, and painful, which symptoms increase, while the short but smart fever, or weed, as it is vulgarly named, subsides in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours. In a few days, if the inflammation does not terminate in resolution, the fluctuation of fluid may be felt in the mamma; and if the pro- cess is allowed to proceed naturally, the matter is at last evacuated by ulceration or sloughing of the integuments. In treating this affection it is usual to begin with the application of leeches; but it docs not a])pcar that much advantage is thus ob- tiiined. Warm fomentations externally, and saline purgatives, to promote the intestinal secretions, with gentle antiraonial draughts, to produce a similar effect on the skin, ought to be employed in the first instance, as being the most efficient means for inducing re- solution of the inflammatory action. If it goes on to suppuration poultices should be substituted for the fomentations, and the patient must observe a restricted regimen to moderate the flow of blood towards the breast. The cavity of the abscess generally heals sooner when evacuation of the matter is not hastened by using the knife, before the suppuration is completed, and the thin superja- cent integuments project or 1)01111. If, when the process is thus far advanced, the patient suffers much pain from the confinement of the matter, ari incision shoidd be made, since it will not then de- lay the subsequent process of cure, and may even accelerate it by