99 BLOOD-VESSEI,S. / tion, by lessening the force of the circulation, through the effect of bleeding, low diet, and rest This plan of treatment is usually dis- tinguished as that of Valsalva. In addition to these means, Guat- tani recommended tight bandaging of the limb and tumour. Both methods were found to be extremely inefficient and uncertain, so that, though productive of less harm, they hardly afforded more be- nefit than the bloody proceeding which has been already described, and was in those days called the Operation for Aneurism. The good old fashion of performing amputation of the limb affected* was therefore generally followed, until it fortunately occurred to John Hunter, (1785,) and much about the same time to Desault, that an effectual method of causing coagulation would be to ob- struct the artery above the tumour, or between it and the heart, so that thus the natural cure by coagulation and absorption might be safely and certainly induced. The first ti'ials of this new practice w^ere hardly so successful as was anticipated, owing to the vexatious, alarming, and not unfi-e- quently fatal hemorrhage which attended the separation of the liga- ture apjffied to effect obstruction of the artery. To obviate this cause of failure various contrivances were employed. The ligatures were sometimes drawn gently, lest they should cut the coats of the vessel, or a little roll of plaster was interposed with the same view between the knot and artery. Ligatures in the form of tapes were employed; two or three of them were tied at some distance from each other, so as to compress a considerable extent of the vessel ; and ligatimes of reserve, as they were culled, being introduced under the artery, beyond those which had been tied, were left loose, so that they might be drawn tight if occasion should require. Not- withstanding all these precautions, bleeding still occurred as often as before, and proved, if possible, even more unmanageable. In despair, therefore, of obstructing arteries safely in this way, attempts were made to obliterate them without inducing the ulcerative ab- sorption which was requisite for the separation of the ligature. Simple compression of the vessel, division of its internal coat, and these two means conjoined, were tried for this purpose, but, as has been already stated, however promising they might appear from their results when practised on the lower animals, they were fom:d to operate very uncertainly on the human arteries. Though these experiments thus did not lead directly to any practicul improve- ment, they occasioned such a series of extensive and accurate ob- servations, as had the happy effect of developing the true principles