371 I'ELVIS. by the natural passage. Though there are very ancient traees of this practice, and though in modern times ingenious patients have occasionally, by persevering efforts, succeeded in bringing away part, if not the whole, of calculi from which they suffered, yet Li- thotrity, as this method of operating has been named, may be re- garded as of very recent origin. The apparatus was necessarily very inefficient and unmanageable so long as the cannula through which it was introduced into the bladder had a curved form. Some anatomists of the last century suggested that a straight instrument might be passed along the urethra; but Dr Gruithuisen (1813) first used a straight catheter. The contrivance of this gentleman, followed by the successive improvements of Amussat, Leroy, Ci- viale, and Heurteloup, rendered the lithotritic apparatus wonder- fully perfect It consisted of a straight cannula, containing another of steel, the extremity of which was cleft into three branches, that expanded by their own elasticity when pushed beyond the external tube, and closed upon being drawn within it This internal cannu- la in its tiun inclosed a solid rod of steel, terminating in a head so figured as to act destructively on a stone submitted to its rotatory motion. At the other extremity of this apparatus there were addi- tional parts for preventing the escape of the urine, without imped- ing the motion of the cannulas or perforator, and for attaching the string of a drill bow. When the stone was large, a compound per- forator could be employed, having a moveable branch at its extre- mity, that might be separated to more or less distance from the central position by a regulating screw at the other end, and exca- vate the stone to an extent corresponding with the degree of its ex- pansion. The thin shell thus formed was broken by another instru- ment, named brise-coque, which consisted of an instrument shaped like a slightly curved sound, and having its extremity formed into strong jaws, which were made to separate and embrace the stone, which was then crushed by the blows of a hammer or the force of a screw. The latter apparatus has come to supersede the former one for the whole operation, which is, therefore, now named Litho- tri})sy or crushing, to distinguish it fr^i the grinding process. It is needless to describe particularly the various instruments employed, since description alone could give no precise idea of their structure, and still less of their exercise. The general principle, as already mentioned, consists in the separation of two jaws by pushing one before the other, and then, after gi*asping the stone, approximating them by the force of a screw or simply manual pressure. W^heii the operation is to be performed, the patient should be