BONES. 199 diseased part. They, therefore, always require to be frequently repeated, and generally prove quite inadequate to destroy the dis- ease, imless it is very limited and accessible; and it is even not improbable that some of them, as the actual cautery, may occa- sionally make the matter worse, and extend the disease to the neighbouring bone by exciting inflammation in it. For these rea- sons excision ought to be preferred to caustics for removing the carious hone; and if the part afiected be within reach, which can always be ascertained previous to commencing the operation, it may by this method be surely and thoroughly eradicated at once. If the disease is superficial, and of small extent, it is easily scooped out with a gouge, the toughness and compactness of the sound bone distinguishing it from the morbid portion. If extensive and deeply seated, it is best removed by taking away the whole of the articulating extremities concerned, as will be explained hereafter when the diseases of the joints are considered. When the situation of the caries prevents it from being cut out, amputation ought, if possible, to be performed; and if this be impracticable, the disease will sooner or later prove inevitably fatal. Exostosis. The term exostosis is employed to denote various morbid con- ditions of the osseous system difiering materially from each other, i and has consequently occasioned great confusion. In order to ! avoid this, it ought to be confined in its meaning to imply an un- ! natural growth of bone. Exostosis in this sense exhibits three re- ; markable varieties in respect of its structure; being sometimes solid, at other times hollow, and also not unfrcquently spicular or foliated, i that is, composed of radiating points or plates. The first of these kinds of exostosis exists independently of any other disease, but the two others are connected with and dependent upon different mor- bid formations, along with which they may more properly be considered. The first, which may be called the simple or solid exostosis, con- sists of a solid mass of osseous substance growing out of a bone na- tiually belonging to the skeleton. It is sometimes tliin and flat, risuig gently from the simrounding surface, and not causing any I sharp projection, when it is named a Node, an appellation which is also used to designate a similar swelling dependent on chronic thickening of the periosteum. In other cases it forms an abrupt projection, the neck of which is usually narrow in proportion to the