PRINCIPI.ES or SURGERY. 382 dering the introduction of u catheter extremely difficult The blad- der becoming distended, reacts on the j)rimary disease, and opposes the replacement of the uterus, whence the first object in the treat- ment is to draw off its contents. This may sometimes be done by means of a flexible, or curved silver catheter; but it has happened repeatedly, that such instruments coidd not be introduced, and the jmtient either died from extravasation of urine, or was saved by puncture of the bladder above the pubis. Should that operation be judged necessary, it is to be performed in the same way as in the male ; but especial care must be taken in introducing the tro- car, not to transfix the elongated and narrowed neck of the blad- der, w'hich may happen by directing the instrument perpendicular- ly, instead of backwards towards the promontory of the sacrum. The uterus also has been punctured from the rectum; but this pro- ceeding must be regarded as unwarrantable, unless the other more safe measimes have been tried without success. When the resist- ance of the distended bladder has been removed, the surgeon should introduce the fore and middle fingers of one hand into the rectum, while the other co-operates in the vagina, and endeavoim to replace the retroverted uterus. It may be observed that females, who suffer from uterine excite- ment or hysterical affections, are apt to complain of inability to ex- crete the urine, and the catheter is often used in such cases; but warm fomentations applied to the hypogastrium, and cathartic in- jections thrown into the rectum, will almost always obviate any real necessity for its employment in such circumstances. Urinary Calculi in the Female. Females seem to be much less liable to the formation of renal calculi than the other sex, and get quit of them more readily when they do occur, owing to the shortness, width, and tlilatability of their urethra. Sometimes, however, calculi are detained after de- scending from the kidney, and nuclei for concretion are also occa- sionally afforded by foreign bodies introduced from without, through the urethra into the bladder. The stones, whicli liave their foun- dation laid in cither of these ways, increase in magnitude in the manner already explained, and occasion symj)toms analogous to those formerly described. Frequent micturition, the urine tinged . with blood, and aggravation of these complaints by rough motion, excite the suspicion of calculus in the bladder, especially if the pa- tient has ])rcviQUsly suffered the symptoms which indicate the j)re-