PRINCIPLES OF SURGEUV. 12 one way or another in a few days at farthest, and sometimes even in a few hours; hut when chronic, it may exist for weeks or months with little change. With acute inflammation there is almost al- ways symj)tomatic fever ; with chronie hardly any. Causes of hflammatim. The causes of inflammation, or cireumstances which give rise to this morbid state, are very numerous and various. They may be divided into those which act directly on the part affected, and those which do so through the medium of the system. The direct causes of inflammation, or local irritants, as they are usually called, comprehend all the natural stimuli of action when excessive in degree or continuance; various animal, vegebible, and mineral matters, such as cantharides, croton oil, and tartrate of an- timony, which are named irritants from their effects, and every sort of violence, whether chemiad or mechanical, which {dters the structure of the body. The effect of these causes varies with the irritability or tendency' to excited action of the jiax’t or patient. Parts are genendly irri- table in proportion to their vascularity and sensibility. Thus the iris is more readily excited to inflammation than the cornea. But there are many exceptions to this rule; and particidar tissues are most under the influence of j)articular irritations. The urinary bladder, for instance, is irritated by distension; and the joints by forcible extension of their ligaments. Parts occasionally become more ir- ritiible than usual. The circiunstance of having been })reviously irritated sometimes renders them so. Weakness or diminished ])ower of action, also, as from interruj)tion of either the nerves or blood-vessels, or any other cause, contrary to what one might ex- pect, jiroduces the siime effect. Habit, or the continued exj)osure to an irritation, lessens its effect. The differences observed in constitutional irritability are very striking and important. Sometimes they seem to depend on origi- nal or congenital j)ecidlarities of the system; but very frequently ])roceed from the injurious effect of deviations from proj>riety in diet or exercise. They are also often connected with mental irrita- tion, which has a powerful influence over the irritability of the l)ody. In these different states of the system, the s<nne local irrita- tion produces the most opposite elleets; and while one individual may have his limb lacerated and the bone shattered without suffer ing so much inflammation as to occasion symptomatic fever, another 3