435 BRAIN. chronic disease at the injured part, should it be required, or for rousing the energies of the limbs, in case they remain defective in their power, must be carefully employed. The only disease of the spinal marrow, that affords subject of surgical practice, is that sort of Spina Bifida in wliich the nervous parts are perfectly formed, but the membranes are distended with fluid so as to protrude through the aperture of the spine, and con^ stitute an external tumour. The integuments at the part, which is usually the lumbar or sacral region, are generally tbiu, livid, and adherent This disease is often associated with other congenital malformations, advert to the duration of life, but when existing by itself, is not necessarily fatal. The thin parietcs of the tumour sometimes ulcerate, so as to form a minute orifice, which, opening from time to time, allows the fluid to escape, and thus at length completes the cure. In imitation of this natural process, small punetimes have been made with a needle, ("Sir A. Cooj)er) pres- sure being afterwards carefully exercised, and the practice has oc- casionally proved successful. It is evident that the circumstances are here much more favourable for recovery after puncture than in the case of dropsy within the cranium, since the membranous nature of the sac which contains the water permits it to be readily compressed. The operation is still far from certain in its result, and ought not to be undertaken except when the child seems other- wise in a thriving state. Injuries and Diseases of the Nei'ves. When a nerve is divided, the part to which it is distributed is immediately deprived of sensation and voluntary motion, and also suffers a diminution in tbe energy of its vital action, the conse- quences of which are coldness, emaciation, and proneness to ulce- ration and sloughing. If the respective extremities are not sepa- rated to any great distance, they generally become united by a ' new formed substance, which, though it does not possess the cha- racters of the nervous tissue, serves as a medium- of communica- tion between them. In some rare cases, nervous fibrils have been traced fi'om one extremity to the other. If a nerve is only parti- ally divided, the wound is generally slow in healing—uneasy sen- sations are felt by the patient, who refers them to the part where the injured nerve is distributed—and the edges of the external sore are red, tumid, and extremely sensitive to external impres- sions. In such cases, warm fomentations, and other soothing