248 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. y plete rupture of a muscle by the ovcraction of its own contractile ])ower is an exti’cmely rare occurrence. Instances of it have, how- ever, been observed in the recti muscles of the abdomen and rec- tus femoris. The symptoms are sudden inability to perform the accustomed motions, and a vacuity perceptible on external exami- nation of the part affected. The treatment consists in approximat- ing the ruptured extremities as much as possible by the position of the patient, and by bandaging. When the parts become consoli- dated, the usual power is regained. Partial ruj)ture of miiscles from violent exertion is far from be- ing uncommon. The situation in which it occiu’S most frequently is the calf of the leg; where the solcus is apt to have some of its fibres torn during extension of the ankle-joint This is more apt to hapj)cn fi*om an inadvertent tlum a voluntarily violent exertion, and generally occims without the patient bemg aware of making any effort The symptoms are a sudden sensation simihu- to that which would be caused by a blow on the injured part, succeeded by severe pain, and inability of using not only tbe muscle injured, but also those associated with it in action, together with swelling and ecchy- mosis of the limb. The treatment consists in maintaining jjerfect rest, using warm fomentations while the pain continues, and then ap])lying moderate pressure by means of a bandage, together with lotions or liniments, such as the solution of acetate of lead with ojuum, or the tincture of soap and opium. The ciu*e is more or less tedious according to the extent of the injury; aud requires from a few days to as many months for its coni})letion. Strains without rupture are not uufrequcntly occasioned by vio- lent muscular action. The patient sufl’ers severe pfiin at the injur- ed part, and is unable to perform almost any motion with the affect- ed muscles. In a day or two the })ain subsides; but weeks often elapse before the original strength is regained. This accident is most apt to happen in the loins, where the long muscles of the back are subjected to violent exertion in lifting heavy weights, &c. The treatment reejuires in the first instance rejmse, warm fomentations, and sometimes the local abstraction of blood. After the jjaiu has (reused, or has lost its intensity, friction with some stimulating lini- ment, aud the support of a flannel bandiigc, are the best means that can be employed. Dislocation of a muscle is met with only in the case of the latis- simus dursi, aud here very rarely. The portion of this muscle which lies over the inferior angle of the sca})ula aud braces it to