EYE, 461 anterior surface is directed upwards and the posterior one down- wards. Various instruments, named couching-needlcs, have been contrived for performing depression; but the most convenient is the one distinguished as Scarpa’s. It is an inch and a quarter long, and slightly curved towards the point, which is sharp. The pupil should be dilated, by the extract of belladonna rubbed over tlie forehead, or dropped in watery solution into the eye. The patient should be seated, or reclining in a posture perfectly horizontal. The upper eyelid must be elevated by an assistant, who, pressing on its edge with the points of his fore and middle fingers, or a le- vator, if the patient is a child, raises without everting it. The sur- geon depresses the lower eyelid with his fore or middle finger; ac- cording to the eye operated on, and places the other at the inter- nal angle, so as to press on the white part of the ball, which power- fully counteracts the tendency it has to roll. He then enters the point of the needle, the convex side of which is turned forward^s about a line and a-half distant fi’om the cornea, a little below the transverse diameter of the eye, pushing it suddenly through the coats. Pressing the handle towards the temple, he directs the in- strument forwards and inwards, between the dilated iris and edge of the lens; moves it freely in the anterior chamber, so as to satisfy himself that it has penetrated the capsule; next places it across, so as to make its concavity correspond with a line a little above the transverse diameter of the lens, into the substance of which he fixes its point; and then, by a steady decided sweep of the hand, depresses the opaque body into the lower part of the eyeball, so as to leave the pupil clear and black. He now disengages the needle from the lens by a slight rotatory motion, and, waiting a second or two to see that all is right, withdraws it If the lens rise after being depressed, before the needle is removed, it must be again carried down, and, if it rise subsequently, the operation must be repeated, with an interval sufficiently long to prevent undue irritation. After the operation a piece of lint wet with cold water, should be applied, so as to cover the eye,—the patient should be confined for three or four days to a dark room and to the antiphlogistic regimen,—and the signs of inflammation should be carefully watched for, so that no time may be lost in using active depletion, and the other means that may be required. The bad consequences of the operation arc acute inflammation, caused by the derangement of structure which it occiisions, and a chronic form of inflammatory action, which is not only extremely