PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY 364 of their comj)laiiit. It is extremely ditficult to account for the ori- gin of these concretions, farther than has been already done, though there arc doubtless some imj)ortant causes in operation, which hi- therto have not been ascertained. Calculous diseases are much more common in some districts of country than others, and all that we know in regard to the difference of these is, that where the strongest predisposition has been observed, the mineral strabi of . the neighbourhood were of a calcareous nature. The formation of renal nuclei hikes place most frequently before puberty, and after tlie age of fifty; but no time of life is altogether exempt from it. There is no temperament or variety of original constitution that seems particularly favourable to the occurrence of the disease, but there is occasionally observed some evidence of the predisposition being hereditary’. Gout and stone are often connected, but they probably are so from owing their origin to the same source, viz. derangement of the digestive organs. The symptoms of a calculus in the kidney are an almost con- stant feeling of uneasiness in the loins, aggravated by rough mo- tion, and SQOthed by rest; the discharge of small fibrinous clots with the urine after fits of irritation, and during their continuance, tenderness of the loins, nausea or vomiting, and frequent desire to make water, which is sometimes attended with pain at the point of the ])cnis. If, while there are such symptoms, the bladder should be examined, and found to contain no calculus, there will be strong ground of suspicion that one exists in the kidney; but there can hardly be any certainty acquired on the subject, as different mor- bid states not only of the kidney, but also of other parts of the uri- nary appm*atus, produce nearly, if not altogether, the same indica- tions. The object of treatment in this case is to promote the descent of the calculus into the bladder, with which view the patient should take exercise, and drink largely of diluent fluids. Advantage seems sometimes derived from conjoining the latter with a small quantity of spirits, such as Hollands, or with the tincture of can- tharides; but caution must be observed in doing so lest too much excitement be occasioned. The calculus, if it remain in the pelvis of the kidney, does not increase rapidly in size, as the urine, from Jiassing away through the ureter immediately after btung secreted, lias little time to deposit the excess of solid matters which it may contain. Sometimes, however, the concretion of uric acid enlarges