409 GENITAL OllGANS. and chronic irritation of the urethra from stricture or other causes. In commencing the treatment, the first step should always be to examine the state of the imethra by passing a moderate sized bou- gie, and jif it either meets wdtli obsti'uction or causes more than usual pain, thus indicating a morbid sensibility of the lining mem- brane, the oj)eration must be repeated with instruments varied ac- cording to the nature and peculiarities of the case, until there is no longer any trace of disease. Even when tlie urethra seems to be sound, advantage is occasionally derived from the use of bougies, and in a week or two, or sometimes in a few days, very formidable-looking tumours are thus discussed. Should the swel- ling exist along with a sound state of the urethra, or resist this treatment, means of promoting absorption must be employed. With tliis view, the patient should maintain the horizontal ])osture, use a very spare diet, and be subjected to a gentle course of mer- cury ; at the same time having the absorbent actions of the part excited by leeching, and discutient lotions, which answer better than blisters or ointments. If there is water in the tunica va^jinalis, a complication named Hydro-Sarcocele, the fluid ought to be eva- cuated by puncture before these local measures arc instituted. When the swelling attains a large size, and resists a patient trial of the means that have been mentioned, it may be removed by the knife as a last resource, and of course with a favourable prognosis in regard to the prospect of permanent recovery. A section of the tumour removed in such cases generally exhibits a compact fibrous structure, which is usually of a yellow or yellowish-grey colour, and contains irregularly-sized cells interspersed through its substance. Cystic Sarcoma of the Testicle, The testicle is liable to the formation of cysts in its texture, and these sometimes occupy so much of it, as to constitute a mass in which the cystic character predominates. When this disease is associated with hydrocele or hsematocele, its diagnosis cannot be made out with accuracy, until the fluid in the tunica vaginalis has been drawn off. The only remedy for this affection is removal, and the oj)eration may be performed with less regret, as the glan- dular structure of the testicle always suffers such atrophy, or changes in its texture, that it cannot be expected to perform its function.