BONES. 175 sary to consider the accident as occiUTing through the shaft,— through the neck,—and through the condyles. The shaft is broken most frequently about its middle, between the attachments of the deltoid and brachiceus internus muscles. The fracture is usually transverse, and very readily recognized by the flexibility of the limb at the injured part It is caused by falls, blows, and inordinate actions of the muscles, as in throwing a stone. The treatment consists in applying pasteboiu-d splints on the inner and outer sides of the arm, extending from the axilla and acromion process to the olecranon, supported by a bandage, which may he a simple roller, or, if there is much swelling, of the looped kind; the elbow ought to be bent at a right angle to relax the muscles equal- ly, and supported in a sling, the patient being kept if possible out of bed to get the advantage of the weight of the limb in effecting extension. When the fractme is seated above the insertion of the deltoid, die lower extremity is apt to be drawn so forcibly upwards as not to admit of being seermed by the means wliich have been mentioned. In this case the patient must lie in bed with the arm separated from the side so as to relax the deltoid, while it is sup- ported by the splints usually required. The humerus may be fractured at its lower extremity either ob- liquely or transversely, so as to detach one or both of its condyles. Such accidents are generally caused by falls on the hand or elbow, and though they not unfrequently occm* in adults, are particularly common in cliildren, and very apt to he mistaken for dislocation of the fore-aj-m backwards. It may be distinguished by the deformi- ty disappearing on slight extension, and retm’ning when the limb is left to itself, hut is best detected by extending and bending the fore-ann alternately while one hand embraces the elbow. The ob- lique fracture is easily recognized if the external and internal tu- berosities be pressed backwards and forwards with the two liands. The treatment of this injury is extremely simple, requiring merely compresses of tow before and behind, and a figiu-e of 8 bandage apjdied while the bones are carefully held in the proper position, the arm being afterwards kept in a sling. But the consequences of mistaldng the nature of the case, and leaving the limb unsupported after extension has temporarily restored it to proper shape, are most distressing, the arm being always deformed, and generally stiff. When the fracture occurs above the attachments of the pectora- hs major and latissmms dorsi, it is said to be in the neck of tlie hu- merus. In tliis case the muscles just mentioned draw the lower por-