rilINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 22 In the healthy and robust individual there is always excessive re- action, unless the bleeding be so small as not to affect the system sufficiently, or so profuse as to cause sinking or death in the first instance. Pain, fear, and the exhaustion produced by protracted fever or the discharge of matter, increase the risk of sinking. Local Bleeding.—Blood may be abstracted locally by scarifying, leecliing, and cupping. The first method can be employed only when the part inflamed is superficial, or when the skin and subjacent cellular texture are af- fected. In which cases incisions are often useful, not only by al- lowing blood to escape, but by relieving tension. Leeches should be dried before they are used, and the part to wliich they are applied ought to be carefully washed with warm water. When they are wished to fasten at a particidar point, they should be inclosed in a small cone of paper or linen, which allows merely the head to project. After they fall off, the bleeding is to be en- couraged by fomentations or a poultice, unless it proves exces- sive, as sometimes happens, particularly in cliildren, when a small piece of lint ought to be pressed firmly on the wound. If tills means should fail, w’hich it seldom does, the nitrate of silver may be applied, or the wound may be transfixed by a small needle or pin, and tied with a thread. The quantity of blood obtained by cupping depends greatly on the part wliich is chosen for the purpose. The skin should be well fomented before the operation, and carefully protected from the influence of cold during its performance. The glasses shoidd have wide mouths, and be frequently emptied, to prevent the blood from coagulating over the wountls, which opposes its flow, unless they be made of such a shape as to prevent this. The most con- venient form, especially to an operator not practised in the management of ordi- nary cup-shaped vessels, which require to be frequently emptied or reapplied, is the one here represented. The glass being about six inches long and two Inches wide at the moutk In using this apparatus a piece of paper moistened with spirits, is introduced into it and kindled-