PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 480 tions. The sulphate of copper used once a-tlay, either solid or in solution, is the best local application; and the gradual improve- ment that takes place in such states of the system through time and a proper mode of living, must he trusted to as the means of afford- ing permanent security against their continuance or recurrence. The sores which result from the irritation of the teeth occur, of course, at the part exposed to its operation. They present various appearances, according to the circumstances of the case, hut are easily recognized by the existence of a tooth presenting a sharp edge in their neighbourhood. The treatment obviously requires immediate removal of the irritation, by smoothing the rough sur- face of the tooth, or extracting it; and advantage is also derived from touching the ulcer with nitrate of silver, or the sulphate of copper, in order to destroy its morbid sensibility. Cancer of the tongue is occasionally met with chiefly at advanced perioils of life, and in females more frequently than males. It is attended with the usual characters of hardness and pain, and leads to similar disease of the glands of the neck. The only remedy is extirpation, and this unfortunately can seldom be effected, owing to the diffusion of the morbid tendency. The means employed for this purpose are the ligature and the knife. The former must be used when the cancer is so situated as to render the hemorrhage, to be expected upon its excision, profuse or difficult to restrain, as at the back part or root of the tongue. A double ligature is passed under the base of the ulcer, with the assistance of a sharp-pointed curved needle fixed in a handle. The threads are then tied as tight as possible, so as to include one-half of the disejise in each. The pain that follows is intense, and until it abates, which seldom hap- pens before the expiry of several hours, should be mitigated by large doses of the muriate of morphia. When the cancer is seated on the apex or edge of the tongue, it may be safely cut out with the knife or scissors, after being grasped and forcibly stretched by means of a hook or hooked forceps. But the result of experience forbids almost any hope of effecting permanent relief by extirpat- ing cancer even of this part, and of course if possible still less when the disease is seated farther back. The FrcEnum of the tongue is sometimes originally formed so as to present the appearance of a narrow white band when the apex is turned backwards, and more or less impedes the motions of the organ. This imperfection is easily remedied by cutting the edge of the tight fraenum, and then ru})turing the remaining p;u-t 3