407 GENITAL ORGANS. source. The tunica vaginalis is always very much thickened, some- times of almost cartilaginous hardness throughout, and occasional- ly soft and pulpy on its inner surface. 1 minutely injected the ves- sels of an hasmatocele, which had been ascertained, by a puncture previo\isly, to be still capable of reproducing the bloody contents, but did not find the slightest extravasation or appearance of rup- ture, either from disease or injury. The treatment of hsematocele does not afibrd so much room for choice as that of hydrocele, since the only method of safely and effectually relieving the patient consists in cutting away the thick and diseased tunica vaginalis, together with a portion of the inte- guments. The best way of performing the operation is to make, in the first place, a free incision into the cavity, and then, feeling the extent of the sac, cut away as much as possible of it where not adherent to the testicle. The wound should be dressed with dry lint after the vessels have been tied. Considerable constitution- al disturbance may be expected ; but, xmder proper treatment, it seldom proves excessive. Suppuration being induced, the granu- lating process soon brings the sides of the wound together, and completes the cure. Cirsocele. The veins of the testicle, which enter into the formation of the spermatic cord, are subject to varicose enlargement, particulai’ly on the left side. The vessels become greatly dilated, thickened in their coats, and extremely tortuous. Theiv is thus caused a swell- ing, which alarms the patient, occasions a dragging uneasy feeling in the groin and back, aggravated by standing or walking, and is itself also sometimes the seat of disagreeable sensations. When the dilatiition occurs high in the cord, near the external ring, it sometimes bears a great resemblance to inguinal hernia. In order to distinguish between the two diseases, the }>atient is generally laid in the horizontal posture, when the swelling disappears, whe- ther of the one kind or the other. Pressure is then made at the ring, and the patient rises, when the swelling will reapj)ear if de- pending upon vascuhu’ enlargement, as the blood cannot thus be prevented from finding its way through the arteries, but the tu- mour will not return if of a hernial natiire. This test, though of- ten decisive, is frequently ambiguous; and it seems a more cer- tain means of {iscertiiining the truth, to compress the neck of the swelling, while the patient stands erect, when if composed of dilated