SKIN. 445 come habitual, and to continue after the derangement in other parts of the system that gave rise to it has ceased to operate. For correcting the depraved condition of body, all errors of diet must be carefully ascertained and interdicted The food should be easily digestible, but small in quantity. Bleeding and purging may be used if there seems to be a tendency to ])lethora. Regular exer- cise, and an alterative course of mercliry, with the saline cathartics, or some mineral water of this kind, are then to be prescribed. In the treatment of scaly eruptions gTcat benefit is derived from the use of corrosive sublimate and Fowler’s solution of arsenic; and from the combinations of iodine with mercury and arsenic. Of lo- cal means, the one most generally useful is frequent ablution with warm water and soap. Water impregnated with sulphur, such as that existing naturally at Han’ogate and elsewhere, or prepared artificially by dissolving a small proportion of sulphate of potass with sulphur, usually j)roves more beneficial. If there are any hairs at the part, they ought to be removed, as their presence is not only a constant source of irritation, but prevents the measures for cleans- ing it from being employed efficiently. Of medicinal applications, the best are citrine ointment diluted with axunge or Unimmtum tiqicae calcis, in the proportion of one ])art to four or six ; an ointment containing sulphur and axunge in the proj)ortion of one to eight; a mixture of the two last-men- tioned ; a solution of the sulphuret of potass, or hydro-sulphuret of ammonia; and other ointments or solutions of a stimulatimr kind. Warty excrescences of the skin are of very fi*equent occurrence, particidarly on the face and hands. In the latter situation, they are simple extensions of the natural texture, and prove inconve- nient merely from the deformity and awkwardness in using the fin- gers, occasioned by their presence; but in the former, they consist of formations altogether foreign to that of the skin, and besides being unseemly, are apt, in the more advanced period of life, to take on malignant action, either in consequence of being irrifeitcd, or spontaneously. They generally appear on the hands during the period that intervenes between childhood and puberty, and are sel- dom met with in adults. They may, if it is desired, be removed at once by the knife, caustic, or ligature, of which means the one first-mentioned is the best; but are in general readily dispersed by the more gentle methotl of exciting their absorption, by applying some stiimdating ointment or lotion. Strong acetic acid answers