PRINCIPLES OF SURGERV. 458 through the membrane so as to effect its division to the extent re- quired (Chcseldcn, Sir W. Adams); 2. tearing away the iris from its ciliary attachment sufficiently for establishing an adequate open- ing, by means of a curved needle introduced through the sclerotic or cornea (Scarpa); 3. dividing the iris from its centre to the cir- cumference in the direction of two radii meeting together at an angle of 45°, so as to form a triangular flap, the apex of which corresponds to the pupil, and its base to the ciliary attachment of the iris,—a process that may be effected more easily than might be expected, by puncturing the cornea, and introducing the blades of very small cimved scissors,—one of which is shaq) to penetrate the iris, and the other blunt to prevent injury of the cornea, (Maunoir); 4. cutting out a piece of the iris, which is done by puncturing the cornea and allowing the iris to protrude, or, if necessary, pulling it out with forceps, and then removing the portion thus presented by means of scissors curved on the side (Gibson). These methods have been variously modified and combined, and have led to the contrivance of an endless variety of instruments, the particular de- scription of which will be found in the woi*ks devoted to ophthalmic surgery. The one last-mentioned is easily performed; is not at- tended with much risk of the new' aperture closing, and is little in- jurious to the other structures of the eye. The opening of the iris must be made opposite a clear part of the cornea, and the inci- sion of the latter part should not, if possible, be directly over the new pupil, lest the opacity of its cicatrix should throw another ob- stacle in the way of vision. Protrusion of the Iris. AVhen an qpening is formed in the cornea, either by mechanicnl violence or ulceration, the Iris is apt to protrude through it in the form of a round dark-coloured tumour of variable size, which is ex- tremely sensitive to external impressions, and consequently causes great irritation. If the protruded part be cut away, it is replaced by another portion; it should therefore be removed by caustic, which may be applied every other day. The nitrate of silver an- sw'ers best for this purpose ; and, by taking off the sensibility of the protruded surface, relieves the patient from pain before the tumour is destroyed. Dropsy of the Choroid Coat. The Choroid membrane is liable to distension from the accumu-