PllINCirLES OF SUIIGERY. 278 of the superior thyroid arteries, which, though previously proposed hy others, was first executed by Sir W. Blizard, does not seem de- serving of adoption. The operation has been sometimes found ex- tremely difficult, owing to the displacement and overlapping of the vessels by the tumour—it has even proved fahd, hy giving rise to extensive ulceration—it has rarely or never effected an entire re- moval of the swelling—and has generally induced only a very par- tial absorption. The plan of passing a seton through the tumour, in order to excite suppuration, and a consequent diminution of hulk, which was brought into notice by Quadri of Naples (1818), hut had been proposed and even practised previously, is Ciisily exe- cuted, and seldom leads to any serious had consequenees. Fatal Ccises, however, have been observed by Chelius and others, in con- sequence of the centre of the tumour entering into a profuse su]>- puration, while the rigidity of the parietes prevented their conti’ac- tion, so as to diminish the size of the cavity ; and the good effects of the practice have been at best but of partial extent Except, therefore, in cases where circurastmees render it very desirable to reduce the size of the swelling, there seems to be little encourage- ment to employ the seton. If it is thought proper to do so, a skein of silk or cotton should he conveyed through the anterior part of the tumour where there is no danger of wounding the large arte- ries ; compresses if necessary are then to be applied over the ori- fices, and fomenhitions with poultices must he employed afterwards, if required by the occurrence of inflammatory consequences. When suppuration commences, the seton may be changed, and when the tiunour ceases to diminish, it may be withdrawn altogether. Inci- sions into the tumour, and the application of caustic to it, which act on the same principle as the seton, are less eligible means, in as much as they are more severe in their administration, and not so efficient ISIr Liston has employed the ligature with success, pre- viously dissecting the integuments of the projecting ])art of the tu- mour, and then transfixing its base; and I once adopted this me- thod in the case of a lady who had a lobe of the thyroid enlarged into a round tumour with such a narrow neck as to aj)pear altoge- ther insidated. With the exception of those cases where some energetic inter- ference is peremptorily required, which are fortunately rare, the best treatment for bronchocele is to blister the surfiicc, and apply ointments, containing iodine alone, or in combination with mercury. Ever since Dr Coindet of Geneva introduced the use of this me- 4