BRAIN. 437 are generally smooth, round, or oval; and of a size intermediate between that of a pigeon and hen’s egg. Tiiey occur most frequently in the large nervous cords of the superior extremity, be- tween the elbow and shoulder, for the most part commence about the middle period of life, and are observed more rarely in fe- males than males. They are usually the seat of more or less constant uneasiness; and when squeezed or otherwise irritated, occasion pain, with spasmodic twitching of the part to which the nerve affected is dis- tributed. They are recognized by their symptoms, by their situation, and by their greater mobility in the transverse than longitudinal direction of the limb. The proper treatment of these tumours, as all external re- medies are of no use, is to cut them out. The immediate effect of this operation is insensibility and paralysis of the part concerned; but, in the course of time, the patient generally recovers the powers thus lost; and, at all events, is freed from the annoyance of the dis- ease, which is often so great as to render his life miserable. Tumours, in some respects of a similar kind, are not unfrequent- ly met with at or near the extremities of nerves divided by ampu- tiition. The enlargement seldom attains a considerable size, being generally that of a pea or marble. It is extremely sensitive to ex- ternal pressure, which excites intense pain, that is referred to the limb removed, and spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the stump, and the tumour, even though not mechanically irritated, is hardly ever free from uneasiness. The only remedy is removal, which may be effected either by simply excising the affected part, or performing a secondary ampuhition, which is the more eligible course, when the stump has been in other respects imperfectly formed. The Subcutaneous Nervous Tubercle, as it is called, though not distinctly connected with the nerves, so far as can be traced by dis- section, yet agrees so much in its symptoms with the tumours just described, that it certainly ought to be considered along with them. It is almost always about the size of a pea, smooth, round, or oval, and of a firm yellowish structure. It is seldom, if ever, observed to increase, being as large when first discovered, iis it is found to be at any time afterwards. It is seated immediately undei’ the