PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 114 hind the scalenus anticus, where it is more superficial, detached from the vein, and at a gi-eater distance from the disease. Mr Ramsden had the merit of first performing the operation here (1808;) and, though the case terminated unfavorably, it led to others, which have established this as the best proceeding for the cure of axilUu-y aneurism. Dr Post of New York met with the first in- stance of success (1817.) The mode of operating described by Mr Ramsden has hardly been improved. The patient being placed on his back with the head rather lower than the trunk, and his shoulder having been de- pressed as much as possible, an incision should be made along the upper edge of the clavicle, from the insertion of the sterno-mastoid to that of the trapezius. Another cut, perpendicular to the for- mer, and of about the same length, ought next to be carried from its centre upwards, parallel with the external edge of the sterno- mastoid. The flaps thus formed should be reflected with i\\&platys~ ma my aides and fat—the jugular vein being, if possible, avoided or held aside; and then the surgeon dissecting do^\m to the lower edge of the inferior belly of the omo-hyoideus, exposes the scalenus anti- cus, taking care not to cut the siipra-scapular artery, wliich must be tied if wounded. Tracing this muscle to its insertion into the first rib, he is led infallibly to the artery wliich passes out beliind it, immediately above its attachment. He then either carries the needle round the vessel where thus exposed, or, in case of its show- ing any sign of morbid alteration, uncovers it a little farther, by cutting or turning back the edge of the scalenus,—in doing which there is no danger of injuring the jihrenic nerve, as it lies here quite at the sternal edge of the muscle, having crossed it ob- liquely in descending from the cervical plexus. It apjxjaxs from the cases on record, that the large nerves going to constitute the axillary plexus, though not lying in the way of the artery, are apt from their proximity' to be mistaken for it; wlierefore the surgeon should lie cautious in passing the ligature, and not tie it until sa- tisfied, by the effect of compressing what he has included, that it is really the artery. The subclavian artery may be tied also on the inner or sternal side of the scalenus; but the numerous branches that spring from the artery here, together with the close neighbourhood of the pleura, vein, and on the left side, the thoracic duct, render this operation extremely difficult and dangerous—while, as already observed, it ofiers no inducement in regard to increasing the distance between 3