184 miNCirLES OF SURGERY. mere removal of the periosteum certainly caused the deatli of a scale of the bone more or less thick, by depriving it of nourishment, and hence it was a rule, \nth the old surgeons, to hasten exfoliation in all such cases by applying the actual or potential cautery. But it is now ascertained that simply remo\dng the periosteum does not necessiudly cause exfoliation, and that when a bone tlurows off a scale, after being so exposed, it generally does so in consequence of the injury wliich it has sustained from the violence that occasioned the separation of the membrane. Blows, falls, strains, and expo- sure to cold, are the causes that most frequently give rise to ne- crosis, and they act either directly, by at once destroying the vita- lity of the part affected, or indirectly by exciting inflammation, which terminates in the death of the bone. The inflammation, when acute, is not confined to the bone, but generally affects all the superjacent tissues ; whence it has been erroneously supposed, from redness of the skin being present, that erysipelas or inflam- -•mation of the skin may induce necrosis. There often seems to be a constitutional proneness to necrosis, so that many bones of the same person die together or successively. Tliis disposition exists most frequently in childliood, and is almost always associated with, perhaps dependent upon, weakness of the system. The dead portion appears as if it had been long and carefully macerated, being hard, white, brittle, and sonorous when struck with a probe. If exposed to the air previous to separation, it suf- fers various alterations of colour, and generally, in part at least, becomes black; but this depends upon the discharge of the sore, and the action of the air. It is named an Exfoliation, and gradu- ally separates from the living bone by ulcerative absorption. The circumstances which attend the process of exfoliation and its repa- ration vary much, according as it afl^ects tlie external surface, in- ternal surface, or the whole thickness of the bone concerned. External Exfoliation.—The external surface of bones being most exposed to those injm-ies which cause exfoliation either chrectly by their violence, or indirectly by exciting inflannnation, most fre- (juently suffers from it; and, of the particular bones, those neiu*est tlie surface of the body, as the tibia and cranium, are, as might be expected, more especially liable. The separation of the dead j)or- tion, being effected by a process of the living system, does not admit of any assistance fi’om the surgeon, whose interference could hardly fail to do harm, by injuring the adjoining sound bone. Free vent ought to be afforded by projK'r incisions to the matter, which is co-