406 nilKCIPLlLS OF SURGERY. cellular substance, it gives rise to inflammation, attended with vio- lent fever, and soon terminating in sloughing of the scrotum. The best course to follow, upon discovering that the error has been com- mitted, is to make an incision through the punctured part, squeeze out as much as possible of the fluid, and apply warm fomentations to promote the exudation of the remainder. Tlie hydrocele of children docs not require the radical operation, as the fluid is readi- ly absorbed undei’ the influence of a discutient lotion, such as a so- lution of muriate of ammonia with spirits and vinegar, or, at all e\-ents, seldom returns if such a lotion be applied after evacuation by a trocar or lancet. Hcematocele. The tunica vaginalis is sometimes distended with fluid, not clear and seroTos-looking, but of a dark-brown colour, and often deposit- ing, when allowed to remain at rest after being drawm off, a layer of florid blood; and the cavity in such cases, if laid open, is gene- rally found to contain more or less fibrinous coagulum, partly de- tached, partly adherent to the sides of the sac. The disease is then named Hmmatocele. It is recognized by the characters of hydrocele, with the exception of translucency, which is altogether absent; but, as this feature may depend on unusual thickness of the sac, the only certiiin diagnostic is obtained by puncturing the tumour. Hsematocele is sometimes associated with diseases of the testicle. The origin of the blood which constitutes it is involved >n great obscurity; but, on the whole, seems to be ascribed with most probability to hemorrhage from the tunica vaginalis. The disease is almost always a hydrocele in the first instance, and the history usually given of it is, that after the ordinary serous fluid had been drawn off, the swelling returned very rapidly, and uj)on being tapped again, was found to be filled with the dark-coloured con- tents above described. In cases of old standing, numerous small scales are observed floating in the fluid, and these when collected are ascertained* to consist of cholesterinc. Dr Bostock has sug- gestcul, with api)arent j)robability, that they arc not the direct re- sult of secretion, but tlie product of a chemical change taking place hi the elfused fluid, similar to that by which adipocire is formed from flesh when subjected to long maceration in water. The same sort of scales have been found in collections of dark-coloured fluid in other jiarts of the body, and no doubt proceeded from the same • Dr Christison.