PELVIS. 369 from heartburn, or other symptoms of acidity in tlie stomach, he ought to take occasionally a tea-spoonful of calcined magnesia. Lime-water and soap ley were formerly much used in various forms and combinations, in the expectation of their producing a solvent effect on the stone ; and the relief experienced fi’om them was often so great as to afford appfirently good gi’ound for believing that they possessed such a power. It is admitted now that they could act beneficially only by correcting morbid derangements of the urinary secretion ; and they arc, therefore, superseded* by the less nauseous alkaline preparations above-mentioned. If, on the contrary, the q-aantity of earthy and alkaline salts seems to be redundant, acids should be employed. The muriatic is usually preferred, and may be given in the dose of twenty or thirty drops, in a sufficient quantity of water, three times a-day. When, along with this state of the urine, there exists much irritation about the bladder and kid- neys, as is generally the case, small doses of opium ought to be conjoined with the acid; and other means of a soothing kind, as the hip-bath and opiate injections, at the same time prescribed. Wliatever be the nature of the derangement, it will always be pro- per to correct any errors in the patient’s diet or mode of living that tend to injure the health in general, and the digestive functions in particular. The means which are employed, with the view of effecting a ra- dical cure, may be considered under three heads, accordingly as they act; 1. by promoting the escape of the stone entire through the natural passage; 2. by breaking down the stone into fragments small enough for being carried out with the stream of urine; and, 3. by cutting a free outlet for the stone. Renal calculi of small size generally remain only a short time in the bladder, and pass out with the urine often almost immediately after descending from the ureter. When the history of a case leads to the suspicion of there being a concretion of this kind remaining in the bladder, or if it should be detected by sounding, its exit ought to be assisted by a very complete dilatation of the urethra by metos of bougies, by drinking coj^ously of simple diluent fluids, and by the relaxing influence of warm bathing. Sir A. Cooper recommended the use of forceps, shaped like a sound, for seizing and extracting small calculi.* If there are many conefetions, the instrument contrived for this purpose, at Sir Astley’s suggestion. • Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. xi. A a