Health, Strength and Energy Are quickly obtained by simply taking a few doses of EPPS’S CURA-CENE (Wine of Ozone). The greatest purifier and enricher of the blood known. Its effects are almost immediate. and the cure certain. EPPS’S CURA-CENE (Wine of Ozone). A guaranteed cure for nervous, physical, and functional weakness, headache and singing noises in the head and ears, dimness of sight, and specks floating before the eyes, dizziness, failing appetite, pains and aches, heart disease with palpitation and fluttering, rising of food, and acidity of the stomach, vomiting, liver complaints, wind, wasting diseases, shortness of breath, kidney diseases, softening of the brain, and listlessness, coughs, asthma, and in the early stages of chest diseases and decline, impurity of the blood, with pimples, blotches, and eruptions, flushing, t rembling of the hands arid limbs, exhaustion, melancholy and loss of memory, indigestion, biliousness, neuralgia, gout, and rheumatism, loss of energy, and unfitness for study, society, or business ; and there is not a disease but what this medicine will reach, and in all human probability cure, as it has thousands of times before, even after everything else had been tried and failed. IT GIVES STRENGTH AT ONCE and will give more strength in ten minutes than any other medicine will in as many weeks, and is extremely pleasant to take. IT PURIFIES THE BLOOD, rendering the skin clear and transparent, and removing all pimples, blotches and eruptions. It produces new, rich and pure blood, and everything for forming muscle, flesh, bone, brain, &c., and also contains the verv elements of LIFE. IT NOURISHES THE BRAIN, sharpens the intellect, and removes excitement, confusion of ideas, dread, gloom, indecision, timidity, irritability, dulness of perception, and all the symptoms of mental exhaustion or overworked brain, supplying at the same time nerve, thought, and brain food, and giving a great increase in intellectual power. This Grand RESUSCITATING ELIXIR has been recommended by the most illustrious Physicians of the age, including Sir Erasmus Wilson, Sir Charles Locock, Physician to the Queen, and Mr. Osar Hawkins, Sergeant-Surgeon to the Queen, who have given their testimonials unsolicited : Copies of which, together with the opinions of the Press, will be sent to anyone post free. Sold in bottles at 2/9. 4/6 and 11/-, and most Chemists keep it, but any not having it in stock will procure it without extra charge, and there is a great saving in buying the larger sizes. Should, however, any difficulty be found in getting it, the Proprietors will send it carriage free. London Agents:—Barclay & Sons, 95, Farringdon Street; Edwards & Sox, 157, Queen Victoria Street; Newbery & Sons, 1, King Edward Street, Newgate Street; Thompson, Millard & Co., Great Eastern Street; Sanger & Sons, 489, Oxford Street; Hovenden & Sons, 31, 32, Berners Street, Oxford Street, W., and 91-95, City Road; Sutton & Co., 10, Bow Church Yard; Butler & Crispk, 4, Cheapside; Lynch & Co., 192, Aldersgate Street; and May, Roberts & Co., 9, Clerkemvell Road, E.C. EPPS 6c CO., 366, ALBANY ED,, CAMBEEWELL, LON DON.