p Cj No. £STC . -f GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARY. 1875. EULNG COLLECTION..COOKERY AND PASTRY, /IS TAUGHT AND PRACTISED BY Mrs M A C I V E R, v “Teacher of those arts in Edinburgh. A NEW EDITION, WITH ADDITIONS. TO WHICH ARE ADDED, FIGURES OF DINNER AND SUPPER COURSES, FROM FIVE TO FIFTEEN DISHES, • ALSO, t A CORRECT LIST OF EVERY THING IN SEASON FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR. LONDON: Printed for C. ELLIOT and T. KAY, oppofite Somerfct-Place, Strand; and C. ELLIOT, Edinburgh. m,[)cc,l>;xxix.\ * ' r, • 3; . - ' 01 V: ,:i.A 3 “1 ADVERTISEMENT TO T II * former editions. T IE Author’s fituation in life hath lecl her to be much converfant in Cookery, Paltry, &c'. and afforded her ample oppor- tunity^ knowing the molt approved me- thods pradifed by others, and alio oi mak- ing experiments of her own. Some yeais ago [he opened a fchool in this city for m- ftruaing young Ladies in this neceffary branch of female education ; and Ihc hath the fads fad ion to find that fuccefs hath ac- companied her labours. And many of her fcholars. and others, having repeatedly io- licited her to make her receipts public ; thefe folicitations, joined to an hearty de- iire of doing every thing that it was thought could be ufefal in the way of her bullnefs, have at length determined her to this pu- • blicat on. She is far from thinking this little Book perfect; but as all the receipts - contained in it have been frequently prac- tiled by her, fhe is hopeful it will be found a good pradical treadle. Edinburgh, Havant er7 1783. • 'r ADVERTISEMENT a ij r - r T 0 ^KoiTiaa mmj • THIS EDITION. . • .1 1 ; tr * IT was fuggefted by fome friends, that tile addition of fome Figures of Couries for Dinners and Suppers faould be fubjoined accordingly, I have made out feveral Cour- ies from five to fifteen didles. As fpr Sup- per couries, a lift ;of things for that purpofe i-s given, from which any Lady of the iinall- eft experience may form Suppers of any ex- tent according to the articles that are in lea*-, fon. All the djfties for both Dinners and Suppers are to be found in this little Book; and it is prefumed it is calculated for the genteel and middling ranks of life, and not filled with diflies that will never be ui'ed by •lie out of an hundred families that may purehafe them. There is likewife added a correct lift of every thing in Seafcn in every month of the year, which will be found par- ticularly ufeful to young houfe-keepers. SUSANNA MACIVER. CONTENTS* j\diuburgb) Dec» 1788.CONTEN T S. C H A P. I. SOUPS. A flock for foups or fauces -• - Page *3 Spices proper to be mixed with any kind «f feaforing 14 Imperial white foup - 14 Pigeon foup - - 15 Hare foup - ► 16 Green fummer foup 17 Plumb pottage > 17 Deck foup _ * - 13 Onion foup • 19 Peafe foup . - 20 'i’o make the lame foup pals in fummer as green peafe foup 21 Green meagre foup -• 21 CHAP. II. F 1 S H.. To drefs a cod’s head To roafl a cod’s head To broii cod To drefs fraall cod with ale fauce To crimp cod alter the Dutch manner To itew foies — To fry foks To roaft falmon To crimp fkate To pot any fort of filh - To pickle oylters To pickle muf' ies or cockles To fricafee oyflers, cockles or nlufcks, To fcollop oyilers To brown oyfUts in their own juice To drefs haddocks with a brown fence To ftufF large haddock* To drefs whitens with a white fauce To make parten or crab pies A fricafee of lobiters To itew trouts with brown fauce To pot eels The belt way of petting frefh herrings To fry turbot To drefs a fea-cat To drefs a iea-stt with a white fauce A 3 2d 24 24 2.T 2.7 26 2& 27 27 %■> T& 2*> SO- SO jr S2- 3d 34 35 36 S<i 37 38- 38 39 CHAP.CONTENTS, " "Vi G H A p. in. F L % s H. To fed a rump of beef To make a mutton ham - a bacort ham " * To cure neats Jongues - . To make, forced-meat balls To flew a rump of beef a rump of beef with roots Beef a-la-mode " To pot beef " To make minced collops " To pot a cow's head • To broil beef (leaks - . To make Scots (or Hewed) beef collops ’£0. make beef collops * * To collar beef Scarlet beef * “ To flew a fillet of real “ To make Scotch collops (veal) To hafh cold veal * To mince cold veal ' To make veai cutlets * . Broiled veal cutlets “ To fricafce a bread or veal - * To' make veal fricandoes veal olives To drefs a calf’s head ■* To make brain cakes " „ To turtle a calf’s head , “ w To pot a calf’s head *_ _ To make mutton cuthts " a To haflt cold mutton To make a haheot of mutton . ’ , of coau To drefs a difh of mutton with paper in P»ec To boll a leg of lamb with cabbage cauliflower _ Fialfib covered with rice To drefs a lamb’s head ,, ‘ chickens with pcafe and kttuce 4 To make veal or lamb toads _ ' A jagged hare * A good Scotch haggles A lamb’s haggles liver puddings ^ „ apple puddings .. , Page 4# 4<i 4* 4* 43 43 43 46 47 48 47 50 3^ 51 3® 33 33 34 33 33 || 37 38 59 59 61 61 6J 64 64 6 3 66 67 67 6* 70 71 n 7> 73 - 7* 73 75, 76 %'9To iftake rice puddings Page 76 almond puddings in Heim T o roaft a calf’s or lamb's liver «■ 77 - - 77 To ragoo a liver - 77 To make cake-jelly of calves feet ml 7*- portable foup - 79 To ragoo pallets and kernels - Sir Hamcollops . - 8i To roaft a hare _ j- - 8z- To Another rabbits u S3 'i'o make a caparata tm S3 General rules for boiling fowls m 84 A purftey fauce M s-s An oyfter fauce - - Ss A celery fauce A- 8f A cream fauce - 86 *1 o boil beef or mutton in the juice To roaft any piece of venifon - - 86 87 I’o flew venifon 87 Yenifon in the blood - 88 To llew venifon that has been roafj,ed - 88 To broil venifon - 4 S) To boil a haunch of venifon - 89 To roaft and ftuff a turkey • S) The beft fauce for a roafted hen - 90 To roaft a gooff or duck • 91 To drefs a wild duck - 91 To ragoo a pair of duqks To make a tame duck pafs for a wild one 9a 93 To pot geefe the French way - 93 A general rule for roafting wild-fowl - 94 To pot any kind of wikl-fo\Vl 95 pigeons- • - 95 To Jlove pigeons W 96 To ragoo pigeons - 97 "i'o broil pigeons whole 4 98 Difgulfed pigeons • 99 A pdgeon dumpling • • 99 To ltew cold roafted wild-fowl or hare • ICO To ragoo rabbits , » *01 To llew a neat’s tongue whole • IOI To hath a cold neat’s tongue . • 101 A fauce for a roafted tongue • I03 To potch eggs with form . • I03 An aumulette. . • 104 Egg and cnious, commonly called the onion difh 105 CHAP,viii C O'tf rtf T" & C H A P. IV. PIES, PASTIES, &c. To make a becf-fteak pie a mutton-lleak pis a ve'hifon pally A mock venifon palty To make a veal florentine a pigeon" pie a chicken pie fuperfine minced pies a common minced pic a giblet pie _ “ a hare ormoorfowl pie a kernel pie " a culf’s-foot pie A marrow pafty An egg pie An eel pie A curd florentirie " ■An apple pie An apple pic with potatoes* A ckefnut pie A goofebcrry pic To make puffed pafle A common pie pafle " , ... To make pafle for the cafes of prcfervcu tuTts A pafle for railed pies To make appie tarts Goofeberry tarts Cherry tarts To make ralberry cr currant tarts prune tarts Peach or apricot tarts To make a glazing for tarts, A light boil’d pudding A boil’d cuflard pudding A plv-mb pudding A plain fuet pudding A boiled bread puddhig. A boiled rice pudding A peafe pudding A whole rice pudding Another rice pudding, A lair pudding A n>airrow pudd.ng A tanfy pudding Page iff} lot* 106 X07' 108 109 109 110 nr IIS 113 113 114 115 X15 116 116 1*7. 117 11S n 3 119 119 15.0 HI 121 I25V hz Hi iij n.V i»4 12+ Hi H5 126' 126- 127 128 128- 129 I4i> 13° I3iC 6 U T "E N T S. podding “ A lemon pudding * A citron pudding * A green go of: berry pudding An apple pudding An almond pudding * » A fago cr mill2t pudding ~ A pbtatoe pudding * - t A common pdtatoe pudding tn be fired below rozRed A kbead pudding to be fired- below meat - A fiafty pudding "w A edrrot puddfc.g ” An apple dumpling - - fi r Robert Walpole’s dumplings To Juake curd chrefe-cafces - - lentdn chcefe-cakes - almond >eheefe-cakes » culiards >■ rice cuftards almond cuftards deaf lemon crea n ari orange cream ratafia cream fveet almond cream - - - ■clouted cream - * velvet Cream - fleeple-cream - - - bandiishig curd » * Rufti curd - - «• fender curd To make fair butter - Syllabubs ' - Another k:nd of fyllabubs Plane-mange Goofeberrv cream — To Snake f. raw berry, rafberry, or currant cream To 'make rice trea m «■ A rich eating pflifet A common e .ting pofTet . To make l.avtfhorn jelly . Cah es-feet jefiy . Jelly for a coiil'umption , * A hen’s neft . ’ * Jelly in cream To d:th up cold clridccn in jelly A iloating iiload. - « A tfiilc - - * meat Page 1.5 J *33 133 134 *3.f J3.4 136 136 137 138 138 139' 140-' 141 H* I43‘ 143 144 144 143 146 146 147 14 S' 145 149 149 I JO 150 ijr IJ3- 15* Tsf *J3 IJ4 IJJ JJJ' 156 IJ7 *57 ij£ *59 i6cr ifio i6t 16sPage An egg cheefe To make a chcefc loaf a*ver^ good*bak*d pudding with the fame batter To turn the fame batter into a different forto- To make pan-puddings apple fritters currant fritters ‘ oyffer fritters potafcce fritters a taniy cake *' The poor knights of Windfoe To make fma'.l curd puddings a curd florentine To flew parfnipo ■ " red cabbage cucumbers - * To drefs parfnips to eat like Ikirrets Celery with cream To flew celery in gravy - , To have a difh of kidney-beans in the winter . To keep artichoke bott oms the whole year The belt way of keeping green gooicbernes lor tar To make white cuftards German puffs ** apple puffs ■ * fhort-bread a rich bun a fourthpart plumb-cake a feed-cake a diet-loaf a currant-cake To make line ginger-bread common bifeutt , " . „ t *ne tltc fame bifeuit proper for beatmg to pu^ puddings To make Savoy bifeutt l’punge bifeuit common almond bifeuit ratafia drops ' “ . fijuirt, fruit, and (having bifeuit ; CHAP. "V. PRESERVES, PICKLES, &c.v To clarify (i'Kar , . To make linooth marmaladeCONTENTS. 3S -To mate chip marmalade To preferve whole oranges orange ikins Preferred fliced oranges •To preferve orange grate Orange chips ’ To make orange-peel T'o candy angelica flowers To make red-currant jelly 'White-currant jelljr Jllack-currant jelly M’0 preferve whole currants * r An excellent way of doing curfants for prefent ufe To preferve ra (berries whole To make rafberry jam To preferve green goofebernes red goofebernes To make goqfcberry jam goofeberry jelly To preferve cherries " cherries with (talks and leaves apricots _ " To make apricot jam To preferve green gauge plums magnum plums "To keep common plums for tarts To preferve peaches pears pears red T'o make apple jelly .Chip and jelly of apples r To preferve apples green Apples in fyrup To preferve cucumbers melons erreen almonds barberries T' make lemon fyrup Jpy. up of clove julyflower of violets of pale rofes ef yiaidenhair of turnip - of nettles ■* Conferve of rofes V's make tablets r' Page 19-5 ' 196 198 199 aci 20a 202 203 204 aoj 206 208 209 210 an 211 213 214 214 315 216 217 218 u8 220 221 221 C22 22 a 223 224 225 227 227 23O 230 .331 232 333 334 334 *35 335 336 336 337 T«'■Ai GO N T'E K T S. To makg barley-fugar _ ' glazing for feed or plum-cake To mango cucumbers {Ta pickle walnuts mufhrooms _ Cauliflowers - - onions. - red cabbage beet-root barberries r - (To make pickle-lillo, or Indian pickle fugar vinegar _ - . - goofeberry vinegar ketchup •walnut ketchup . - a twenty-pint bdVrel of double-rum ihrub -the true French white ratafia family dinners of five difhes . feven difhes _ eight diihes * _ nine diflies - ten 4>fhcs twelve difhes , fifteen difhes - Things for flipper difhes (Lift of things in feafon in every month of the year Page 33 S 339 339 341 242 34,3 ,244 ’244 245 246 246 248 248 249 249 2Sf 2 SI 253 254 2.rj 2 ss ac6 256 2j(i 257 238 N. B. The liquid meafure is given in Scotch : but it can in a minute he reduced into Englifh by the following : Englifh and Scotch gallon (wine and fpirit mea- fure) tlte fame ; 1 Scotch pint is “equal to 4 Englifh pints , 1 Scotch chopin to 2 Englifh pints ; 1 Scoth mutchkin to one Englifh pint t Scotch half-mutchkin to u half-pint Englifh ; acd fo pm COOKERY * ,COOKERY and PASTRY. CHAP. I. SOUPS. A Stock for Soups or Sauces. H3HAKL a round of beef and put it j|_ into a pot of cold water, if it is a large piece, let it boil three quarters of an hour.' Take it out, and fcore it well on all fides with a knife, to draw the juice from it; then put the beef and. juice into the pot again; putin fome whole black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, a faggot of fweet herbs, two or three onions, and a large carrot. Let all boil together, until the whole fub- ltance is out of the meat ; then (train it off, and let it hand all night; take off all the fat, then pour it off from the B grounds.Cookery and Pastry. >4 grounds. This is an excellent foup, or a fine flock for any rich fauces. If you want the foup brown, put in a little black cruft of a fine loaf, and a few onion-fkins, along with the reft of the feafonings : difh it up on tcafted bread ; and, if you pleafe, put in about two ounces of vermicelli. *» - Spices, Proper to be mixed 'with any kind of feafoning. Take an ounce of black and an ounce of Jamaica pepper, two drop of cloves, and two or three nutmegs ; beat them into a powder, and mix them all to- gether, and put them in a box or bottle, io as they catch no air ; and then you have them ready for feafoning any kind of fauce. Imperial White Soup• Take three or four pound of a round of beef, blanch it all night in cold wa- ter ; put it on the fire in a pot of cold water alongft with a gigot of lamb ;Ch. 1. Soups. put in fome whole white pepper, a few -cloves, a:fd a blade of mace ; tie up a faggot of par (ley and chives*, or young onions. Let all boil till the fubftance is entirely out of the meat; then flrain it off, and put in as much fweet cream as will make it white, and fait to your tafte ; put it on the lire to warm, and difh it up on toafted bread. Pigeon Soup. Take eight good pigeons, take the pinions, necks, gizzards, and livers ; cut down two of the word of the pi- geons, and put them on with as much water as will make a large difh of foup; boil them till all the fubflance is out of them ; then drain them off; feafon the whole pigeons within with your mixed fpices and fait ; trufs them with their legs into their belly ; take a large handful of pardey, chives or young onions, and a good deal of fpinage ; pick and wafh the herbs very clean ; B 2 lhred * Chives are what the country people call Scythes.16 Cookery and Pastry. fhred them, but not too fn^all ; take about a handful of grated bread, put a good piece of butter in a frying-pan, let it come to boil, and then throw in the bread among!! the boiling butter, clofe flirring the bread from the bottom of the pan with a knife, until it becomes of a fipe brown colour. Then put on your flock to boil, and then put in the whole pigeons alongft with the herbs and fried bread ; and let them boil to- gether till the pigeons are enough done, and then difh them up with the foup. If you do not find the foup enough fea- foned, put in a little more of the mixed fpices and fair. Hare Soup. Take a hare, cut it down, wa!h it through two or three waters very well, fave all the blood, and break the clots in the walhings j then run it through a fearce ; put on all the wafhings and blood with a good piece of lean beef. Let thefe boil together a good time be- fore you put in the hare j feafon it with faitSoups. Ch.T. 3 pot, *7 fait and mixed fpices, a faggot of fweet herbs, and two or three onions; thicken it with a little browned butter and flour. Some like it with a few cur- rants in it; but this is as you choofe. Then difh it up (after taking out the herbs and onions) altogether. Green Summer Soup. Take as much of the flock of beef as will make a good difh of foup ; take the fame herbs and fried crumb of bread, and order them all in the fame manner as in the pigeon foup; parboil a carrot or two, and cut them very fmall; take fome young green peafe, then put in the carrots and peafe along with the reft of the herbs. If you have not the flock of beef, cut down the back-ribs of mutton, and put it in as you do in com- mon hotchpotch, and difh it up in the fame way. Plumb Pottage. Take a hough of beef and a knuckle of veal; put them on the Are in a clofsi8 Cookery and Pastry. I pot, with fix or feven Scots pints (three and a half gallons) of water; take out the veal before it is over boiled, and let the beef boil till the whole fubftanceis out of it; (train off the flock, and put in the crumb of a twopenny loaf, two pounds of currants well cleaned, two pounds of raifins (toned, and one pound of prunes. Let all boil together till they fwell; then warm the veal, and put it in the middle of the dilh. Leek Soup. Take large leeks, according to the d.i Ha you intend; cut them about an inch long, with as much of the tender green as you can; throw them into water as you cut them ; then cut fome dices of bread, neither too thick nor too thin; put in fome butter into a frying-pan; when it boils, cut the bread into fquare pieces, lay them in, and brown them on both fides ; have fome prunes ready wafhed ; if they are dry, take the leeks out of the firft water, and wafh them through another; have as much water boilingSoups. J9 Ch. I. boiling in a pan as will cover your ma- terials ; throw them all into it, and lea- ion it with fait and mixed fpices. W hen the leeks are enough done, your foup is ready. Onion Soup. Take half apoundoffplit peafe, which put into two pints of water (one gallon); let them boil till the peafe are diffoived ; lira in them off; take half a pound of butter, put it in a flew-pan, and boil it until it have done with making a ncife; take ten onions, cut them fmall, and throw them into the butter ; fry them a little, then drudge fome flour on them, ftirring them all the time : let them fry a little after : then pour your dock boiling hot on them, and let them boil a httle time ; then drain it off again, put in a few whole fmall onions, paired or fkinned, into your foup, aud boil them until they are enough done ; fea- fon it with mixed fpices and fait to your tafte ; dilh it up on fried bread, and the whole onions. B 4 Peafe20 Cookery and Pastry. Peafe Soup. Take a pound of fplit peafe ; put them in 'cold water, with a piece of butter, a large leek or an onion or two, and a large parfnip or carrot; let all boil until the peafe are diflolved ; turn them into a drainer, and bruife the peafe with the back of a fpoon ; then put in fome of the thin, till the peafe are quite walked through the drainer; then turn it back into the pot, and let it boil; then feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. If you want it to look green, beat fome fpinage, and fqueeze out the juice, which put into the foup, xrith a handful of fpinage-leaves. When this is boiled enough, the foup is ready. Difh it oh fried bread. If you choofe fweet herbs, you may throwr in a fprig of thyme,Wv'inter-favory, and mint, in- to the flock ; like wife a red herring, if you choofe it. borne choofe a piece of pork, hung bacon, or a piece of beef; in either of thefe cafes, put no butter in your21 Ch. I. Soup s. your flock. Difh up the meat in your • foup. To make the fame Soup pnfs in Summer as Green Peafe Soup. Take the foregoing foup ; and as the green peafe are a great deal fweeter than the dried peafe, put in a little fiigar, and a good deal of the fpinage-juice; to make it of a fine green, put in fome green peafe ; and when they are enough the foup is ready. Green meagre Soup. Take fome celery, two or three car- rots, a turnip or two, and half a pound of fplit peafe ; put them all on in boil- ing water, with a good piece of butter, and a fprig of winter-favory ; let them all boil together about an hour and a half; then flrain it off the roots ; take fome parfley, fpinage, chives or young onions, and chervel ; fhred them grofi- ly, and boil them in the Hock ; thicken it with fried crumb of bread, and fea- B 5 fon2i Cookery and Pastry time 5 fon it with your mixed fpices and fait; then difh it up.. CHAP. IT. fish. To drefs a Cod's Head. PUT the head and a piece of the Ihoulders into a pan of boiling wa- ter ; be fure the fifh is covered with the water, throw in a good deal of fait and vinegar to make the fauce; take flock made either of beef or fifh; work a good piece of butter and flour together ; flir it in your fauce till the butter is melted; then put in fome pickled oyfters with fome of their liquor, a lobfler cut in pieces, a whole onion, the fqueeze of a le- mon, and a little of the peel, a little white-wine ketchup, and mixed fpices and fait. Let all boil together a little23 F 1 S H. Ch. I. time ; then throw in a few pickles into the fauce juft when you are going to difh it. It ought to be put in a very deep difh, as it requires a great deal of fauce. If your difh does not hold it all, put the remainder in a bowl, and fend it to the table with the dilli. Garnilh it with fried flounders, fpirlings, or whitings ; put a little fried pariley be- tween every filh. If you have no tidies, fupply their place with horfe-radiflies fcrapped. To roajl a Cod' s Head. Take the headland {boulders, and lay it in a flat tin pan ; flew a little fait over it; put it into a quick hot o\eii' about half an hour; then take it out, and pour off all the watery fluff from it; bade it well with butter, and drew fome mixed fpices over it; put it into the oven again for fome time, drawing it often to the mouth of the oven, and balling it with the butter. When you fee it is enough fired, difh it in the fame, way you do the boiled head, and the B 6 fame.CooKiiRY and Pastry. 24 fame fauce; adding thereto two or three anchovies, if you have them. To broil Cod. Cut in pieces about an inch thick ; dull: it with flour, and lay it upon the gridiron over a flow fire. Take a little gravy, a glafs of white-wine, fait and fpices, a few pickled oyfters, and a lit- tle ketchup, thickening them with a little butter rolled in flour. Send the fauce in a difh to table. To drefs fin all Cod 'with Ale-fauce. Put on fome twopenny, or fmall beer ; have fome browned butter ready, thick- ened with flour; pour it on the ale boil- ing, keeping ftirring all the while; then divide the codlings into two or three pieces, according to their fize ; put in the heads along with them into the fauce, two or three cut onions, fait and mixed fpices, fome lemon-peel, and a little ketchup. Put it in a foup-dilh, with fome cut pickles. To25 Fish. Ch. II. To crimp Cod after the Dutch manner. Boil two pints (one gallon) of water and a pound of fait; fkim it very clean; cut the cod in thin flices ; put it into boiling water for three minutes ; drain it well from the water ; garnifh your difh with parfley. It fhould be eat with oil, muftard, and vinegar. To feov Soles. Skin the foies ; flour them ; then put them in a panful of brown butter boil- ing hot; fry them a light brown ; then drain all the fat from them ; brown a good piece of butter in flour,-to -which put a little gravy, a few oyfters and their liquor, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome onions, a little claret, the fqueeze of a lemon, and an anchovy ; mix them altogether, then put in the foies ; let them flew over a very flow fire half an hour. When you are going to difh the foies (take out the fweet herbs and onions), feafon them with fait and mix- ed26 Cookery and Pastry. ed fpices ; garnilh your dilh with diced lemons. To fry Soles. Skin and fcore them crofs-way&; drudge them with flour ; then fry them in a panful of brown butter boiling hot, till they are of a fine brown. Dilh and garnifh them with parfley and fli- ced orange. Beef drippings, when fweet, will anfwer better than butter to fry them with. To roajl Salmon. Wafli and fcrape the fcales from it ■very clean j dry it with a cloth ] cut it crols-ways; ftrew it over with fait, mix- ed fpices, and grated crumbs of bread ; then lay it in a tin pan, putting a little butter in the bottom of the pan, and plenty above the falmon ; put it in the oven till it is enough. It may be eat with oyfler-fauce, or beat butter and parfley. A grille done in the oven is a very fine dilh. d urn the tail into the mouth, and be fure you do not fcore it asCh. II. Fish. 27 as you do the falmon; drew fait and mixed fpices over it, with plenty of bat- ter above and below it. Eat it with the fame fauce as the falmon. Garnifh both with parfley. To crimp Skate. Cot it about an inch broad ; turn each piece round, and tie it with a thread ; have as much fait and water ready boil- ing as will cover it; put it in, and boil it on a very quick fire ; cut off the threads, and put it on a dry difh. If you are to eat it hot, fend beat butter and parfley along with it. Garnilli with parfiey. To pot any fort of Fifh. Scrape and clean them well; cut them in middling pieces ; feafon them with fait and fpices; pack them clofe up in a potting-can, with plenty of butter above and below ; tie fome folds of coarfe pa- per on the pot; then put them in a flow oven, and when they are enough fired, take them out of the can, and drain them well28 Cookery and Pastry. well from their liquor ; let both cool ; put the fifh into fmall white pots ; fkim all the butter off the liquor ; then take fome more butter along with that you take from the liquor ; melt it down, and pour it on the fifli. Send them in the pots to table. To pickle Oyjlers. Open the oyfters and throw them in- to a bafon ; wafh them in their own li- quor, and take them out one by one ; then ftrain the liquor, and let it hand to fettle ; you may add a little water to it; fet it on the fire to boil; put a good deal of whole pepper, fome blades of mace and nutmeg; let your oyfters have a boil and keep them ftirring; when you think them enough done, take them off, put them into an earthen pot and cover them very clofe; be fure you have li- quor enough to cover them ; you may eat them next day if you pleafe. To pickle Mujcles or Cockles. Take your mufcles, beard and wafh them29 Fish. Ch. II. them very clean; put them in a pot to open over the fire ; take them out of their fhells and lay them to cool; put their liquor into a clean bafon, and let it fland till any fand or grit fall to the bottom ; tlufn pour off the clear ; take ginger, mace and black pepper, and put to your liquor ; make it fcalding hot; put in your cockles or mufcles and let them flew a while, and pour them into a cullender; let them lie till q'uite cold and the liquor cold like wife ; fo .put them together in a can or jug, and tie them clofe up, and keep them for ufe. To fricafee Oyjlers, Cockler, or Mufcles. Wafh them thoroughly clean in their own liqour, then drain the clean liquor on them; put them on the fire, and give them a fcald ; lift them out of the liquor; take fome of the liquor, and thicken it with a little butter and flour kned together. When it comes to boil, put in the fifh, and let them juft get a boil or two. Have fome yolks of eggs ; cafl30 Cookery and Pastry. cafk two, three, or more, according to the file of the difh you make ; take a little of the liquor out of the pan, and mix it with the yolks of eggs ; then pu-t them in the pan, and give them a tofs or two, but don’t let them boil j then difh them To fcallop Oyjlcrs. Clean and fcald them ; put a little butter into your fcallops; fill them with the oyfters; feafon them with a little fait and fpices. As you fill the fcallops, put in a little of the liquor, with half a fpoonful of white-wine. , When the fcallops are filled with the oyfters, cover them with crumbs of bread, and lay fmall pieces of butter above all. You may do them in an oven, or brown them before the fire. To brown Oyfters in their own juice. Take the largeft you can get: wafii them clean through their own juice; lay them clofe together in a frying-pan, but don’t put one above another : make- them31 ch. ir. F I s H. them of a fine brown on both fides ; if one panful is not fufficient, do off more ; when they are all done, pour in fome of their juice into the parr ; let it boil a little, and mix any of the thick- nefs of the oyfters that may remain in the pan, and then pour it over them. Of all the ways of dreffmg them, this is the moll delicious. To drefs Haddocks with a Brown Sauce. Take the largefi: you can get; clean them well, and cut off the heads, tails, belly (or what is commonly called the lugs), and fins: lay the fifh in as much fmall ale and vinegar as will co- ver them ; let them lie in it as long as you can ; take the heads, tails, &c. and cut down one of the fifh ; put them all together in a pan, with as much water as will be fauce; put in an onion or two, a fprig of winter-favory, thyme, and a little lemon-peel ; let all boil till the wfyole fubftance is out of the fifh ; then ftrain off the Rock. Brown fome butter, and thicken it with flour ; mix iu32 Cookery and Pastry. in the flock with fome ketchup, mixed fpices, and fait. You may put in a fpoonful of walnut-pickle, if you have any. When the fauce comes a-boil, put in your hill; have fome oyfters or mufcles ready, and put either of them in with a little of their juice; put in, fome cut pickles .juft when you are a- bout to difh them; or if you want your fauce to be richer, make your dock of beef in place of filh. It is much the; better of a little wine: you may put in fome claret. To fluff large Haddocks. Open them at the gills, and take? out the guts, but don’t flit up the belly; be fure to clean them well. Boil fome of them in fait and water; then fkin and take the bones from them, and chop them on your min- cing board very fmall. if your win- ter- favory and thyme is dried,.beat and fearch them; feafon the chopped filh with fait and mixed fpices. You muft work them up with a good dealFish. 33 Ch. II. of fweet butter, and as much beat eggs as will make them ft;ck ; then fluff the bellies of your haddocks with the forc’d meat; keep fome of it to roll up in balls ; be fure to fry them in brown bucter; make the fauce the fame as the former, and boil the fifh in it; be fure that the fauce cover them : put in the balls, and give them a boil along with the fifli. If the hill have roes, boil them alone in fait and water ; garnifh the difh with them and parfley. You muff lay them in ale and vinegar, as in the former receipt. To drefs Whitings ’with a White Sauce. Clean them well, and lay them in fait and water. You may make your flock of haddocks, or if you pleafe, the broth of a young cock, and feafon it with fait, whole white pepper, mace, lemon-peel, and two or three clones. When this is enough, flrain it off, and turn it back into the pan, and thicken it with but- ter wrought in flour. When it boils, have fome parfley, chives, or young onions,34 Cookery and Pastky. onions, minced fmall, and put them in the fauce; let them boil a little before you put in whitings, for a very little will do them ; call fome yolks of eggs, according to the fize of the difh ; fcrape a little nutmeg amongft the eggs, a glafs of white-wine, and a little of the juice of a lemon ; then take out a little of the boiling fauce, and mix with the eggs, pour all into the panamongfl the fauce, keeping it (baking over the fire. Be fure iyou never let any fauce boil af- ter the eggs go in. Small haddocks dreffed the fame way are very good, To make Parton [Crab) Pies. After your partons (crabs) are boiled, pick the meat clean out of the body and toes (claws) 5 be fure that you leave none of the (hells amongft the meat; feafon it with fait and fpices; put in fome crumbs of bread ; but them in a pan with a good deal of red or white wine, but red is preferable ; put in alfo a good quantity of butter ; then put them on the fire, and let them be thoroughly boiled;Fish. Ch. II. 35 boiled ; wafh the fhells of the body very clean, and fill them up with the meat, fo far as it will go ; fire them in an o- ven, or, if you have not an oven at hand, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire; then brown them before the fire. A Fricafee of Lobflers. After boiling your lobfters, pick the meat out of the toes (claws) and tail; cut it into fquare or long pieces, not too finall; pick alfo all the good meat out of the body. If it be a coral lobfter, be fure you take allthe red. Take as much good flock of any kind of meat as will cover them ; in which you may boil a blade of mace and fome lemon-peel ; thicken it with a piece of butter wrought in flour ; when it boils, put in your lob- flers *, call the eggs and other materials in the fame manner as in the fauce for the whitings : do not have too much fauce, as it mufl be pretty thick. All fricafee fauces are the better of a little thick fweet cream. Take fome of the under36 Cookery and Pastry. under ends of the fmall toes, (claws) and diced lemon for garnifhing your difh. To /lew Trouts *with Brown Sauce. After they are cleaned, dry them very well; dull them with flour, and brown them a little in the frying-pan ; take as much flock of either beef or fifli; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and an onion or two ; ft rain of your flock ; thicken it with browned butter and flour ; fea- fon it with fpices, fait, ketchup, a little walnut-pickle, and fome claret. When the fauce comes a-boil, put in the trouts, and flew them until they be enough. If you choofe them with a white fauce, do them in the fame manner as the whitings. You may drefs pike or eel in the fame way as the trouts with a brown fauce, taking care to cut the eels in pieces about three or four inches long. To pot Eels. After taking the flcin off your eels, fplit them from the llioulders to the tail,37 Fish. Ch. II. tail, and bone them; feafon them very highly with fait, fpices, and fweet herbs; then put every two together, the infide of the fhoulders of the one to the infide of the tail of the other; roll every pair up as you do a collar, and take as many of them as will fill your potting-can, putting fome butter above and below them : cover them with coarfe paper ; put them in the oven, which mud not be too hot; it will be a good while before they be enough. When you difh them, put one of the collars in the middle of the afifet (dilli), and cut another into thin dices, and put round the one in the middle. You may garnifh them with any green thing you chcole. Beji vjay of polling frejh Herrings. Scale them, and make them very clean ; feafon them well with fait and fpices ; pack them neatly in your pot- ting-can, laying the ihoulders of the one to the tail of the other. When you have as many in as you intend, pour C on38 Cookery and Pastry. on as much vinegar as will cover them; bind them clofe up, and put them in a flow oven. They will take about four hours of doing. To fry Turbot. Slice the turbot as thin as you can ; flour them, and fry them on both fides of a fine brown ; beat fome butter ; put a little walnut pickle, fome pickled oyflers, and a little ketchup in it for a fiauce, which you may pour over the turbot; garnilh them with fliced le- mon or pickles. The tail-cut is the bell for frying. * To drefs a Sea-cat. Wadi it very clean, and fkin it; turn the tail into the mouth ; take fome good flock, thicken it with browned butter and flour; put in fome claret, ketchup, fait, and fpices, two or three anchovies, ibme pickled oyflers with fome of their liquor, fome cut pickled walnuts with a little of their pickle ; be fure to have as much fauce as will cover v \Ch. II. 39 Fish. cover the fifh; boil the fiih amongfl the fauce ; then difh it, and put the fauce about it. To drefs a Sea-cat 'with a •white Sauce. Order the fifh as in the former re- ceipt ; boil it in fait and water ; and for fauce take fome good flock ; thick- en it with butter; work in flour a little white-wine, a blade of mace, a little piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy, fome pickled oyfters, and a little of their li- quor. When the fauce is ready, beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with it; dilh it, and pour the fauce over it. Anchovies, oyfters, pickled walnuts, and lemon-peel, are fine ingredients for all kinds of dreffed filh. If you have no flock made of meat, yoy may make a very good one of fifli. The proper filh for it are haddocks, whit- ings, and flounders. C 2 CHAP.40 Cookery and Pastry. CHAP. III. FLESH. To red a Rump of Beef FOR one rump, take two ounces of faltpetre, a quarter of a pound brown fugar, half a pound bay fait, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two drops of cloves, a nutmeg or two ; beat and mix them altogether, and rub it into the beef as well as you can ; then rub it over with common fait; bed and cover it with the fame ; let it lie three weeks, turning it every other day, and then hang it up. Jo make Mutton Hams. Half a pound of bay fait, a quarter of a pound of fugar, will do three or four mutton hams. If they are very large, allow half an ounce of faltpetre to each ham, and the fame fjpices as in theCh. III. 4* Flesh. above receipt. Tliruft your finger down the hole of the (hank,'and ft uiT it well with the falts and fpices ; rub them well over with the fame; then rub them over with common fait, and pack them in the trough, turning them every other day for a fortnight, and then hang them up. To make a Bacon Ham. Take a pound of common and a pound of bay fait, two ounces of faltpetre, an ounce of falprunella, a quarter of a pound of coarfe fugar, and fpices as in the former receipts; mix all well toge- ther : open it a little at the fhank; fluff it well with the fait and fpices ; then tie it hard up with pack thread round the fhank-bone to keep the air out of it; rub it all over with the mixture as well as poffible; lay it in a trough, and drew a little fait above and below it; take two or three folds of an old blanket, and cover the trough to keep out the air. After it has lain that way two or tln^ee days, pour off all that brine; then U'fri C 3 take42 Cookery and Pastry. take what was left of the mixed falts, and mix in fome more common fait with them: rub the ham every day with it, turning it, and throwing away the old brine every day. Continue fo doing for three weeks ; be fure to co- ver the trough always with the cloth; lay the ham upon a table, with boards and weights above it; then hang it up. All hung-meat is bed fmoked with wood ; juniper is the bed, if you have it. To cure Neats Tongues. 33.ub them well with common fait, and let them lie three or four days; then lay them in a heap on a table tQ let the brine run from them ; then mix as much common fait, bay fait, falt- petre, and coarfe fugar, as will do the quantity of tongues ; Drew ibme com- mon fait in the bottom of a barrel > pack in the tongues neatly, and on every row of them drew the mixed falts ; if you have not enough, make it up with common fait; put on the f nking boardCh. III. 43 Flesh. and weights above to bring up the brine to cover them ; then clofe up the barrel. To make Forced-meat Balls. Take the lean part of beef, pork, veal, or mutton, as much beef-fuet as meat; mince them fo fmall as they will fpread on your fingers like pafte ; fpread and feafon it with mixed 1 pices and fait; work it up with a beat egg to fallen it; have a little dry flour in the palm of your hand, and roll them up in balls, or long-like faufages ; fry them with browned butter. You may put fweet herbs in forced meat if you choofe it. You will get the fifh-forced meat in the receipt for fluffing haddocks. cIo Jleav a Rump of Beef. Take the big bone out of it; make feme holes in it with a knife ; put in feme mixed fpices and fait in every hole, and turn your linger round it. if you choofe to Huff it, fill up the holes with forced meat. In that cafe, you need not C 4 put44 Cookery and Pastry. put in the hilt and fpices in the holes ; rub the beef over with the fait and fpi- ces ; let it lie a day or two in that fea- foning ; take it up the morning it is to be dreffed ; dry it well with a cloth, and rub it over with beat eggs, and dull it with flour; have fome browned but- ter ready in a frying-pan; lay in the beef, and turn it round in the frying- pan browned over; have water boiling in the pot, and put in the beef; vou mud not have too much about it; keep the pot very clofe covered after it is once come a-boil ; you muft keep it hewing over a flow fire, only fimmer- ing all the while; turn the beef fre- quently, as it muft not have too much liquor about it. If it is a very large rump, it will take three hours doing ; take up fome of the broth, fcum all the fat clean off it ; take forced meat, fome of it rolled in balls, and fome long like faufages ; brown them in butter in the frying-pan: drain all the greafe clean from them ; have a couple of pallets ready and fome kernels ; parboil and brownF L E S U. 45 Ch. III. brown them a little ; have fome truffles and morals ; be fure to fcald them a little ; cut the pallets in fquare pieces. If the kernels be large, cut them in two or three pieces ; take the flock that you took out of the pot, and thicken it with browned butter and flour; put it on to come a-boil; then put in the balls and all the other things, and let them boil a while in the fauce ; put in fome ket- chup and cut pickles ; never let the pickles boil ; lay the rump in the mid- dle of a foup-difh, and the fauce about it. It is very good, although you keep out the truffles, morels,' pallets, and ker- nels. You need not put the forced meat in the rump, except you pleafe; but. order it as in the beginning of the re- ceipt. To flew a Rump of Beef with Roots,. {It is very good, and net very cxpenftve.\ Seafon the beef in the fame way as in the former receipt; brown it eff in the fame manner, and put it into a pot of C 5 boiling46 Cookery and Pastry. boiling water ; let it flew on a flow fire with a good deal more water about it than in the rich way of drefling : it makes a very good foup. Take fome carrot and turnip ; parboil the carrots with the beef: they give the foup a good relifli : turn out the carrots and turnip into a turner, or cut them in dices ; brown a little butter, and thicken it with flour ; lift up fome of the foup, and fcum all the fat off it; thicken it with browned butter and flour; then put the carrots and turnip into the fauce. and let them boil until they are enough. If you find the fauce not high enough feafoned from the foup, put in more fait and fpices and fome ketchup; throw an onion or two into the pot, and flrain off the foup ; fcum the fat off it, and put in toafted bread. Difli the beef with the fauce and roots around it. Beef a-la-ftiode. Take a rump of beef, and lard it with bacon ; cut the pieces of bacon long ; roll them in fait and mixed fpices be- forech, in. Flesh. 47 fore you put them into the larding pins ; lay fome timber fkewers acrofs the bottom of the pot; lay the beef on. them with two or three onions, a fag- got of fweet herbs, and a gill of vine- gar. You may cover the beef with the Ikin of the bacon. Put a wet cloth round the mouth of the pot to keep in the fleam; put the pot on a very flow fire to ftew, till it is very tender; when it has been two hours on the fire, turn the beef in the pot, and clofe it up again with the wet cloth. If it is a very large piece, it will take five or fix hours in doing; but whatever fize the beef is of, it is enough when it is tender : take up the meat, and drain off the fioup; fcum off all the fat very dean, and pour the foup on the beef. To pot Beef. Take fome flices of a rump or a hook- bone of beef; drew a little faltpetre on it; let it lie two days; then put it in the potting-can with a gooddeal of but- ter or fuet; tie it clofe up with paper, G b and48 Cookery and Pastry. and put it in a quick oven ; let it bake two or three hours ; then take it out and pour all the fat and gravy clean from it. When it is cold, pull it all into threads, and beat it very fine in a mortar ; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices. Whatever weight of beef you have, take the fame weight of fweet butter ; oil and fcum it; pour it on the meat, and keep back the grounds. You muft work the butter and meat very well together; then prefs it into fmall white pots, and oil fome more butter; pour it on the top, and tie them clofe up with paper. You may fend it in the pots to the table. You may pot hare >in the fame manner. To make minced Collops. Take a tender piece of beef, keep out all the fkin and fat, mince it flnall, feafon it with fait and mixed fpices ; you may fhred an onion fmall, and put in with it; fpread the collops, and drudge flour on them ; brown fome butter in a frying-pan ; put the collops inFlesh. Ch. in. 49 in the pan, and continue beating with the beater till they fuck up all the but- ter, and be a little brown. You may- draw as much dock from the fkins and tough pieces as will ferve for the fauce; drain off the dock ; fet it on to boil, and put the collops in, and let them dew until they are enough. You may put in fome pickles if you choofe them. If you fee any of the butter on the top, fcum it. To pot a Cow's Head. Wadi it well with fait and water ; it is the better of blanching a night, gi- ving it more clean water ; break it, that it may go into the pot ; boil it until the flefh comes off eafily ; take out the eyes and the pallet: take the black fkin off the pallet; cut the black out of the eyes ; cut the eyes in rings, and the pallet in dices, the fat parts about an inch long, and mince the black parts fmall; then mix the pieces all together; take the fat off the broth ; put the meat into a pan, and all the fat, with a good deal50 Cookery and Pastry, deal of the broth ; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices ; put it on, and let it boil, ftirring it frequently ; let it boil until you find the meat tender, and fuck up mod: of the juice until it is like a thick jelly about it, and then pot it up. A calf’s foot or two, cut in the breadth of a draw, and about two in- ches long, mixed in the pan among the reft fome time before it comes off, looks very well. To broil Beef Steaks. Take the bed: bit of the beef for fteaks off the rib-end of a fparerib; cut the fteaks pretty thick; brade them with the flat fide of the chopen knife ; the gridiron muft be very clean and very hot, the fire very clear, before you lay them on; keep turning them often. W hen enough fait them in the difh ; drew pickles over them. Send them hot with a cover over them. Scots (orfenced) Beef Cellops. Cut your beef in fmall pieces ; beat themFlesh. 5* Ch. III. them well; take a ftewpan, brown a lit- tle butter with flour, put in a row of beef, with pepper, fait, and f]iced, oni- ons ; repeat the fame till your ftewpan is near full; add two fpoonfuls of wa- ter to a middle-ftzed difh. Cover the the pan clofely on a clear fire ; fhaking the pan never take off the cover. Ten minutes will do them. To make Beef Collops. Cut thin dices of a tender piece of beef pretty long, and about three inches broad; cfut the fat pieces feparate from the lean ; beat them with the rolling pin; put a bit of fat on every piece of lean ; feafon them with fait and mixed fpices ; roll every one up like a collar ; pack them clofe to one another in a pot- ting can ; put butter above and below them; then tie them clofe up with coarle paper; put them into the oven, and bake them until they are enough. If you eat them hot, pour off all their own juice, and fcum off all the fat; thicken it with a little butter wrought in52 Cookery and Pastry. in flour, a little ketchup, and fome cut pickles in the fauce; pour it over the collops; it makes a very pretty cold af- fet when you cut the roll in llices. To collar Beef. Take the nineholes of beef; bone it; rub it well with fait and faltpetre; let it lie three or four days, or more, ac- cording to the thicknefs of the beef; take it up and dry it well with a cloth; then feafon it very well with mixed fpi- ces and fweet herbs, if you choofe it; roll it up very hard, and roll a cloth a- bout it; tie the cloth very tight at both ends : bind the whole collar very firm with broad tape ; put it into a pot of boiling water; be fure to keep it always covered with water. If it is very thick, it will take near four hours boiling. When it is boiled hang it up by one of the ends of the cloth, to drop the wa- ter from it; when it is cold, loofe it out of the bindings. You may make a col- lar of pork the very fame way ; it takes always a little more boiling than beef. Scarletch. nr. 53 Flesh. Scarlet Beef,\ Take a piece of a breaft of very fat beef; blanch it twenty-four hours in cold water : then drop the water very well from it, and dry it very well with a cloth ; rub it well with brown fu- gar, fait, and faltpetre ; turn it every day for a fortnight, and then boil it. It eats very well hot with greens, and when 11 iced down, makes a very pretty cold affet. To flew a Fillet of Veal. Cut off the fhank-bonc, and make holes in the veal; after fluffing it witli forc’d meat, rub it over with an egg, and dull it with flour, then brown it. When the veal boils, put in as much hock as will cover it; cover the pot very clofe, and let it (lew on a flow lire ; turn it often as the liquor waftes. When it is enough, take up fome of the li- quor ; fcum off the far, and thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour ; put in fome pickled oyfters, and a lit- tle54 Cookery and Pastry. tie of their liquor, a large glafs of white wine, and the fqueeze of a lemon. You may boil a piece of lemon-peel and a blade of mace in it; but be fure to take them out before difiling; give it a fcrape of nutmeg ; then difh the veal, and pour the fauce over it. The fliank, or any piece of frefh meat, will make a very good flock for it. To make Scotch Collops. Cut thin flices out of the thick of the thigh ; beat them with a rolling pin, and brown them with frefh butter; boil with the flock a piece of lemon-peel, fome mace, and a glals of wine; drain it off, and thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour ; put in fome pickled oyfters ; then put in the collops, and don’t let them get above three or four bolls; beat the yolk of an egg, and mix in two or three fpoonfuls of l'weet cream and a fcrape of nutmeg; mix it v/ith the collops, and give them two or three tof- fes above the fire; but do not let them boil ; fait them properly. Garnilh all veal-dilhes with diced le- mon ;55 Flesh. Ch. IIL mon ; yon may put in forc’d-meat balls if you pleafe. To haffj Cold Veal. Cut it down in thin flices : take the bones and fkinny pieces to make the ilock of; boil a piece of lemon-peel and a blade of mace, if there has been any of the gravy left of the road, put it into the dock ; then drain off the dock, and thicken it with butter and flour as a- bove ; put in a little ketchup and the fqueeze of a lemon, if you pleafe ; it is much better of a little wine ; then put in the veal, and give it a boil or two, and then difh it on flppets of toafled bread. To mince Cold Veal. Cut off all the brown’d pieces and fat ; mince the white part of the meat final 1 with a knife ; boil fome fweat cream (taking care to ilir it until it boils, to keep it from bratting); thick- en it with a very little fweat butter knead in flour; put in the veal, and fea- fon *56 Cookery and Pastry. fon it with the grate of lemon, a little fait, and the fcrape of a nutmeg; keep it tolling on the fire until the fauce is a little thick; juft before it comes off, give it a little fqueeze of a lemon: fo ferve it up. To make Veal Cutlets. After cutting the back ribs of veal into fteaks, brod them with the chop- pin-knife ; flour them before you put them into the frying-pan ; make them of a fine light brown ; make a ragoo fauce of fome ftcck ; thicken it with brown’d butter and flour, as in the other receipts for brown fauce, and the fame kind of feafoning ; then put in the fteaks into the fauce; l^t them ftew un- til they are enough : fo ferve them up. Broil'd Veal Cutlets. Cut and beat them as in the former receipt; rub them all over with a beat egg ; feafon them with fait and the grate of a lemon ; ftrew fome crumbs of bread over them on both fides; pourF L E S H. 57 Gh. III. a little oiled fweet butter over them ; lay every cutlet in clean white paper ; broil them on a clear fire, turning them often until they are enough ; take off the paper, and diih them : for fauce, fend upfome beat butter, ketchup, and the fqueeze of a lemon, in a fauce-boat. To fricafee a Breajl of Veal. Cut down the ribs of the bread ; break them into fhort pieces, and wadi them very clean ; let them lie fome time in water to blanch. You may put in a little milk or dour, to help to whiten the meat; then put it into a clofe goblet with boiling water; put in a tied bunch of pardey, a blade of mace, and fome lemon peel with it; let the meat boil tender ; cad fome yolks of eggs, and mix a little cream, white wine, fome fait, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and the fqueeze of a lemon with them ; thicken fome of the broth the meat is boiled in with a very little fweet butter knead in dour; and when it boils, dir it in gradually among the eggs ; take the meat quite away58 Cookery and Pastry. • away from the broth, and put it into the fauce-pan; pour the fauce on it un- til it thicken ; but be fure never to let any thing come a-boil that eggs are in, elfe it will cTurdle the fauce. . \ You may fricafee any white meat in the lame way ; fuch as lamb, chickens, rabbits, tripe, pallets, and kernels, &c. To make Veal Fricandos. Cut the back-ribs, keeping two of them together ; make a flock of the fhank, neck, and any coarfe pieces; make up a faggot of fweet herbs, winter favory, thyme, and parfley; put it into the flock, with a few onions, fome le- mon-peel, wffole pepper, a little white • wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, a few cloves, and a blade of mace. If you choofe, you may put in an anchovy. When the flock is enough, flrain it off, and thicken it with butter knead in flour; when it comes a-boil, put in the flakes, and flew them on a flow fire. When you difii it, put in any kind of pickles orFlesh. Ch. III. 59 or not as you pleafe; be fure to brown the ribs in the frying-pan before you put them into the faucc. To make Veal Olives. Take ten or twelve veal collops, cut them thin, and a good deal longer than broad; rub them all over with an egg; then cover them all over with forc’d meat; roll them up, and pack them clofe to one another, in any thing that will hold them, and fire them in the oven; when they are enough, lay them neatly in the difli, putting a ragoo of pallets and kernels over them. To drejs a Calf's Head. After fcalding and wafhing it very clean, lay it in cold water to blanch ; boil it, but not too much ; when it is cold, cleave it quite exa<5tly through the middle ; take one half of the head; take out the tongue and pallet ; cut off the upftanding part of the ear ; Ifrike off the end of the nofe; fcore it in fquares ; rub it over with a beat egg ;• then ilrew it6o Cookery and Pastry. it over with falc, mixed fpices, and crumbs of bread ; lay pieces of butter upon it, and put it before the fire tt> brown, bafting it frequently with the butter. Remember, when cleaning the head, not to open the jaws. Cut down the other half into flices, neither too long nor too fhort; dice off the ear-part round ways, and take out the eye ; cut the black out of it, and dice it down ; fkin the tongue and pallet, and dice them down ; thicken fome dock of beef ■with butter knead in dour ; feafon it with fait, mixed fpices, a little ketchup, fome white wine, the fqueeze of a le- mon, and fome pickled oyders , put in the hafh, and let it dew a little ; throw in a piece of lemon-peel, but take it out when you ddli it. If you want it done in the highed way, it fhould have forc’d meat bills, truffles, morels, and pickled mulhrooms 5 but it is a good dilh without thefe four ar- ticles. When you didi it, lay the halh in the didi, and the other half in the middle ;6i ch. nr. Flesh. middle; garnifh with the brain, cakes, and fliced lemon. To make Brain Cakes. When the head is cloven, take out the brains ; take out any firings that may be amongfl them, and call them well with a kni^e ; then put in a little raw egg, a fcrape of nutmeg, and a lit- tle fait, and mix them with flour to make them flick together ; call them fmooth ; then drop them like bifcuits into a pan of boiling butter, and fry them on both fides a fine brown. Lambs brains are done in the fame manner. To Turtle a Calf’s Head. Put the head in a pot to boil for half an hour; cut it into fmall pieces; you muft have a very flrong flock of beef; make a faggot of parfley, onions, and Lveet herbs ; it mull be very high fea- foned vvithfpices; putin a little Cayenne pepper; drain the flock from the herbs, and put the minced meat into the flock, D with62 Cookery and Pastry. with a mutchkin (pint) of Madeira, the yolks of four hard eggs chopt, and a good piece of the lean of bacon-ham; let all boil together until the head is tender, and the gravy well-Poked in ; then take out the ham ; have a fricafee- fauce ready to pour on it; give it a tofs on the fire to mix it: $he garnifhing is a pafle round the difh. To pot a Calf's Head. Boil it about half an hour ; flice as many round pieces off the ear as you can ; cut out the black of the eyes, and flice them into rings ; cut the fkinny pieces about an inch long, and fome a little longer ; fome about the breadth of a draw, and fome of them broader; cut the flefhy parts of the head pretty fmall; have fome beef-flock; boil a blade of mace, a little lemon-peel, and a iprig of winter favory in it; drain it off; clarify it with the white of eggs, and run it through a jelly-bag ; cut the pallet into fmall fquares ; put all the meat in the dock, and feafon it with a littleFlesh. Ch. III. 63 little white pepper and fait; let it boil until the flock is well-foked in ; put a little of the thinned of it into the bot- tom of a done bowl, and let it cool; take fome pickled bitroot and pickled cucumber ; cut them in fuch fhapes as that you can lay them in the form of a flower on the jelly, that is, in the bot- tom of the bowl; lay a tire of the dew- meat over it: as you lift the meat, pick out the rounds of the ears and eyes, and lay them aflde on a plate; lay on fome more of the meat, until there is about the half of it in ; then take the rounds of the ears and the eyes that you kept out, and flip them down edge-ways as near to the fide of the bowl as you can; let there be a little didance between every round; put in the red of the meat round the edge of the bowl; put fliced bitroot and kidney-beans, or any thing that is green at the time, about with the bitroot, or any thing that is fhowy ; it mud be thoroughly cold before it is turned out of the bowl. If it does not come eafily our, put the bowl into warm D 2 water,64 Cookery and Pastry. water, but let it (land very (hort time in the water; then turn it out on your di(h. To make Mutton Cutlets. Cut the back-ribs or loin of mutton into flakes, and beat them with the chopping-knife; brown them in a fry- ing-pan; then drew crumbs of bread over them; feafon them with lalt and fpices ; have as much good (lock as will cover the (lakes ; put a little ketchup in the fauce; it is much better of a little red wine; when the fauce comes a-boil, put the (lakes into a clofe pan; let them llew until they are enough. In cafe the fauce be not thick enough with the bread, put in a little butter wrought in flour; drew fornecut pickles on the dakes when you diih them. To hafu Cold Cutlets. Cut the mutton down in thin dices; break the bones, and take any pieces of the mutton that does not go into the halb ; it makes the dock the better. YouFlesh. Ch. III. You may boil an onion or two in it. When the flock is ready, thicken it with brown’d butter and flour; put in a little ketchup and fome fait and fpices; when the fauce is boiled, throw in the hafh, and let it get two or three quick boils. If there was any of the cold gra- vy left, put it into the fauce, t king care not to put in any of the fat along with it. All hafhes are much the better of cut pickles in them. Difli it on lippits of toafled bread. Cold road beef or lamb may be halhed in the fame man- ner. To make a Haricot of Mutton. After cutting off the flap of a loin of mutton, cut the red into dakes, and beat them with the chopping-knife; brown them in a frying-pan ; lay them on a dirih, and feafon them with fait and fpices on both fides; have fome carrots and turnips turned; if you have not a turner, cut them into fquares; be fure that the carrots are parboiled before you cut them; liavp as much dock as will D 3 coverC6 Cookery and Pastry. cover the meat and roots ; thicken it with brown’d butter and flour ; then put in the flakes, carrot, and turnip, and all the gravy that runs from the flakes, into a clofe pan, and let them flew until they are enough ; lay the flakes in a foup-difh, and the roots and fauce over them. To clrejs a Difk of Mutton 'with Paper in place of Coals, •which is thought to eat fweeter than when done on the co?n~ mon Fire. Cut down the back-ribs in flakes, and flat them with a chopping-knife; pare fome turnip, and flice them very thin ; flice alfo fome bread and an onion or two very thin ; mix the turnip, bread, and onion together ; feafon the flakes with a little fait and fpices ; lay a row of the flakes in the bottom of a ne- cromancer*, then a row of the bread and roots, and fo continue until it is full; tie the necromancer by the handles be- * A necromancer is a flat white-iron pan, with two handles, and a lid that checks in very dole.Ch. in. Fles h. 67 between two chairs; have a tea-kettle of boiling water ; fill up the pan with it, and put on the lid very clofe ; have readyfome wafte-paper dripped through your hand ; light one piece after ano- ther, and hold it below the bottom of the pan, moving the lighted paper back- wards and forwards, and it will be ready in leis than a quarter of an hour. Send it to the table in the necroman- cer, with a plate below it. To boil a Leg of Lamb 'with Cabbage or Cauhjlo'iver. Cut off the loin and boil the gigot ; cut the loin into flakes, and fry them of a fine browm : put the boiled lamb in the middle of the dilh ; put a fried flake, and a little young cabbage or cauliflower for each flake, round the boiled lamb ; pour fome beat butter over it ; take care not to boil the lamb too much. Lamb covered avith Rice. Half roaft a fore-leg of lamb ; cut it in68 Cookery and Pastry. in pieces as for a pie ; feafon it with fait, and lay it in a difh, according to the fize of the lamb, if the iamb is not very fat, put in a piece of butter in the bottom of the difli and a little wa- ter. If the difh be any thing large, it will take a pound of rice ; walh the rice very clean, and put it on with as much water as will boil it foft, and don’t take it off the fire until all the water is fuck’d up ; put in fome blades of mace with it. When the rice is thus prepa- red, ftir in a good piece of frefh butter, a little fait, and the fcrape of a nutmeg, amongft the warm rice; call four eggs, and mix them up with the rice,keeping out a.little of the eggs ; then lay all the rice over the difli; rub the top of the difli with the egg you kept out ; put it in the oven, and let it bake until the rice is firm, and of a fine light brown. To drefs a Lamb's Head. Wafh it very clean ; let it blanch as long as you can in cold water ; parboil it; cut off the neck, and cleave the head juftCh. IK. Flesh. 69 juft as you do a calf’s head ; take out the brains ; rub the head over with an egg; have fome parfley and chieves, or young onions, finely Hired, mixed with crumbs of bread; drew it all over the head, and put it down before the fire to crifp, bafting it well with butter ; take out the tongue when you cleave the head mince all the flefh you can get off the neck very fmall, with the tongue and pluck; take up fome of the water that boiled the head and pluck; put in the bones of the neck, and about half of the liver, and boil them until all the ftrength is out of them ; put in a piece of lemon-peel, if you have it. When the Hock is enough ftrain it off; thicken it with a little butter kned in Hour; put the minced meat into the fauce, with Hired parfley and chieves, a little ket- chup, a proper quantity of fait and f pi- ces, aud the fqueeze of a lemon. If you cJioofe it, order the brains as in the re- ceipt for the brain-cakes ; cut the other half of the liver intoftrrpes, and fry it; put the hath in the diih, and the head D 5 injo Cookery and Pastry. in the middle of it, and garnifh with the liver and brains. To drefs Chickens •with Peafe and Lettuce. Take as many good peafe and chickens as will fill thedilh you intend ; trufs the chickens as for boiling; feafon them with fpices and fait; put a piece of frefh butter in every one of them ; tie up a faggot of parfley, a fprig of young oni- ons, and a fprig of thyme or winter fa- vory; put the peafe in the pan, with a piece of frefh butter; flrew in a little fait and fpices ; put in the faggot of fweet herbs; lay the chickens above the peafe, with the breads undermoft; fplit the hearts of two or three lettuces, and walh them very clean; put them above the chickens with about half a mutch- kin of water, to keep the peafe from burning; clofe up the goblet, and put it on a flow fire to dove ; it does not take long time to do ; lay the chickens with their breads uppermod in a foup- difh, with the peafe and lettuce over them, and as much of the broth as the di£h ICh. III. 7* Flesh. 1 difh will hold; take out the faggot of fweet herbs ; fo ferve them up. To make Veal or Lamb Toafls. Take the kidney, with all the fat be- longing to it, and a little piece lean out of the thick of the thigh ; mince it fo fine that it will fpread on your fingers; feafon it with fait, grate of lemon, and nutmeg. You may take fome fmall fhred parfley, if you choofe *, mix all together, and work it up with a raw- egg ; cut fome dices not too thin; cut the bread into any lhape you pleafe ei- ther long or round; cover them with the minced meat pretty thick, and raife it a little higher in the middle; put them in a pan of boiling butter, with the bread fide undermolf. You muft fry it gradually, elfe the bread will burn and the meat will be cold in the heart; turn it to the other fide, and fry it a fine brown. A Jugged. Hare. Cut the hare in pieces; put a pretty D 6 large72 Cookery and Pastry. large piece of butter in the bottom of a long jug; feafon it with fait and mixed fpices; then pack in as many of the bed; pieces of the hare as the jug will hold ; put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and two or three onions amongft them ; take fome of the water you waihed the hare in, and drain it through a fearce ; fill up the jug with it, and tie the mouth of it very clofe with feveral folds of paper ; put it into a pot of cold water ; the wa- ter mud not come up farther than the neck of the jug, elfe it will boil into it; as the water boils in, you mud put in ~ more to keep it of an equal quantity. If it is an old hare, it will take three hours of doing ; the butter will rife to the top; pour it clean off; take out the herbs and onions when you difh it, and pour the fauce over it; be fure to tie the jug to the handles of the pot. A Good Scotch Haggles. Make the baggies- bag pei fefflyclean; parb ul the draught; boil the liver very well, fo as it will grate; dry the meal beforeCh.III. Flesh. 73 before the fire ; mince the draught and a pretty large-piece of beef very fmall ; grate about half of the liver; mince plenty of the fuetandfome onions fmall; mix all thefe materials very well toge- ther, with a handful or two of the dried meal : fpread them on the table, and feafon them properly with fait and mix- ed fpices; take any of the fcrapes of beef that is left from mincing, and fome of the water that boiled the draught, and make about a choppen of good dock of it; then put all the haggies-meat into the bag, and thatbroath in it: then few up the bag; but be fare to put out all the wind before you few it quite clofe. If you think the bag is thin, you may put it in a cloth. If it is a large hag- gles, it will take at lead two hours boiling. A Lamb's Haggles. Clean the bag very well; Hit up all the little fat tripes and the rodikin with a pair of fciflars, and wafli them very clean ; parboil them, and what kernels you74 Cookery and Pastry. you can get about the lamb ; then cut them in little pieces, but not too fmall; fhred the web very fmall, and mix it with the other cut meat, and feafon it properly with a little fait and fpices ; call three eggs with three fpoonfuls of flour, as for pancake-batter ; mix them up with a mutchkin of fweet milk; have a handful of young parfley, and fome chieves or young onions, fhred very fmall ; then mix all the materials very well into the batter ; put all into the bag, and few it up : it will take about an hour’s boiling. A Pudding of Lamb's Blood. \ Take as much blood as with half a mutchkin of cream will fill an aflet; mix the blood and cream together, and run it through a fearce ; feafon it with fait and fpices, a fprig of mint and chieves, or young onions, minced fmall; mince the fat of the near or kidneys fmall; mix all together, and fire it in the oven, or in a frying-pan. Lamb’s blood is the fweetefi: of ail blood. To75 ch, in. F L E S H. To make Puddings either of Sheep or Cow s Blood. Break all the clots of the blood very well ; run it through a fearce ; mix fome new milk with it, according to the quantity of blood ; feafon it properly with fait and pepper; lhred fome onions and a little mint; cut the fuet, but in very fmall pieces; do not be fparing of the fuet; mix in a little oat-meal; fill the fluff into the fkins; cut them all of one fize, and tie the two ends together ; be fure that the water is boiling, either to haggies or puddings. Juft when you are going to put them in, pour in a little cold water to put it off the boil, elfe they will be ready to burft. When they are in a while, prick them with a pin to let out the wind. To make Liver Puddings. Boil the liver very well, and grate it down; take an equal quantity of grated bread and liver; cut fome onions and plenty of fuet; feafon properly with fait76 Cookery and Pastry. fait and fpices, and fill them in the white end of the pudding. To make Apple Puddings. Cut the apples pretty fmall ; have fome bread grated, clean'd currants and fugar; mix them all together ; feafon them with cinnamon and nutmeg ; moiften them with a little white wine ; cut the fuet, and mix all together; put them in the fkins, and cut them all of an equal length, not too long, and tie them at both ends. To make Rice Puddings. Wafh the rice very clean through two or three waters ; put it on in a pan with a little milk to burft; keep it ftirring while it is on the fire, for fear of burn- ing; when it has fucked up all the milk, take it off, and let it cool; mix it with fome currants; feafon it properly with nutmeg, cinnamon, and fugar. You may put in fome grate of lemon, if you have it; mix the fuet with the reft of the meat, and fill them into the fkins ;77 Gh. III. Flesh. be Cure not to cut the fuet too fmall for any puddings in the fkin, for it boils away, and makes the puddings eat dry. To make Almond Puddings in Skins. Beat half a pound of fvveet almonds with brandy, half a pound of fugar- bifcuit, and a pound of beef luet ; mix all together, and fealon it with cinna- mon, nutmeg, and fugar, and fome grate of lemon, if you have it; then fill up the fkins. To roajl a Calf's or Lamb's Liver. Lard it, and fatten it on the fpit; brfte it with butter. The bett fauce for a roatted liver is beat butter with ketchup, and a little vinegar mixed with it. To ragoo a Liver. Cut it in thin dices ; brown fome butter, and fry the liver in it; take the liver out from the butter, and dv.tt a little flour amongtt the butter, and pour in fome boiling water; have fome par- fleyyS Cookery and Pastry. fley and young onions fmali Hired ; l«t them boil a little in the fauce ; feafonit with ketchup, a little vinegar, and fait; put in the liver and let it get two or three boils ; garnifli it with fried par- fley. You may do cow’s nears or kid- neys in the fame manner. To make Cake-jelly of Calves Feet. Take nine or a dozen gang of calves feet; fcald them very well ; flit them up, and lay them amongft lukewarm water forfeveral hours ; put them on in a large pot. When they are fo well boiled that the bones will come out, take all the bones from them j put all the meat back into the pot, and let it boil until the whole fubftance is out of it ; ftrain it through a hair fearce into an earthen veflel that will hold it; while it is warm, fcum ail the fat you can off it ; let it Hand all night ; and if there is any fat remaining on it, take it clean off, when you take it out of the veflel, cut all the fediment from the bottom of it; then put the flock into a clean brafs pan; fee79 Flesh. ch. nr. fet it on a fire neither too ftrong nor too flew ; it mufl boil until it is very thick and appears almoft black in the pan ; then turn it out as thin as you can on (tone plates; when it is cool, takeit from the plates, and lay it at a diflance from the fire to dry gradually ; when it is quite dry, and looks clear and hard like horn, you may lay it by ; and when you intend to ufe it in jelly, to one ounce of it put a mutchkin and a gill of cold water, and put it on the fire ; when it is diflolved, it is ready to make jelly of. You order it in the lame way as if you were making jelly of frefh calves feet. This is a moft ufeful thing in a family, if it is wanted for the table or a fick perfon in a hurry ; it is very good, and looks pretty. You may put in a little heartlhorn alongft with it. To make Portable Soup. 1 ake a very large hough of beef, a large knuckle of veal, and a good old cock ; take off all the fldn and fat from them ; cut them clean from the bones; putSo Cookery and Pastry. put them on with five or fix pints of water ; let it boil on a flow fire till it become a very flrong jelly, which you will know by taking out a little of it to cool; when very flrong, run it through a hair fearce, and let it fettle. If there is any fat on the top, be fure to fcum it off; then put it into (lone tea-cups; take care that you let none of the fedi- ment into the cups ; fer them into a pan of cold water ; put them on a flow fire, and let the water boil gently, until the jelly is as thick as glue; take care' the water does not boil into the jelly ; when you fee it come to the thicknefs of jelly, take out the cups and let them cool ; then turn out the glue on a piece of clean flannel ; keep it turning every fix or feven hours on a dry place of the flannel till they are quite dry ; put every one of them into white paper, and hang them up in a dry place; when you intend to ufe it, pour as much b ding water on the glue as will fill the difh you want ; keep it (lin ing all the time until it diffolves. You may make8z Flesh. Ch. III. it of whatdegree of ftrength you pleafe, by putting in lefs or more of the glue. You may feafon it properly with mixed fpices and fait; let it fettle a little before you pour it into the difh; the fpices will fall to the bottom. If you have this, you can never be at a lofs for a fauce, by diffolving a piece of it. To ragoo Pallets and Kernels, Boil the pallets until the fkin come off them that they are very tender; par- boil the kernels until you can get the flelhy pieces to come off them ; fry them a light brown; make the flock of the flefh that comes off the kernels; put in a blade of mace, about half a dozen of cloves, and lbme whole pepper, and a piece of lemon-peel ; when the flock is flrong enough, drain it off; thicken it with a little butter wrought in flour, and a little white wine in it; cut the pallets in fquares, and put them and the kernels into the fauce, and let them , Adw until they are enough ; when you are about to difh them, put in them a fewSi Cookery and Pastry. few cut pickles, and garnifh the difh with diced lemon ; fait them properly. Hare Collops, Hare collops are dreffed in the fame manner as beef minced collops ; only add a little claret in the fauce. To roaji a Hare. Work fome crumbs of bread and currants with a good deal of frefh but- ter, and feafon it with fugar, fait, and nutmeg; work them up with a beat egg; then put it into the hare, and few up the belly ; draw up the thighs to the body, to make it as fliort as poffible; fkewer the head even, or as it were looking over its fhoulder; fpit it, and lay it to a clear fire, having firft balled it with butter; beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with cream. When the but- ter is well dropped from it, pour it clean out of the pan ; then keep it clofe ball- ing with the cream until it is almoft taken up. When the hare is ready, have fome more cream warm ; then take all that is dropped from the hare*3 Flesh. Ch. nr. and mix it with the cream ; difh the hare, pour on the cream-fauce over it. Or take the following fauce : Take half claret and half water ; cut fome very thin Dices of bread, and a little piece of freDi butter ; let it all boil till it is pretty fmooth ; fweeten it proper- ly, and put in a fcrape of nutmeg. To Jmother Rabbits. Trufs them as you do a roafted hare; put them into as much boiling water as will cover them; peel a good many onions, and boil them in water whole; take fome of the liquor the rabbits are boiled in, and put in a good piece of butter knead in flour; then put in the onions amongft it, keeping them break- ing until the fauce be pretty thick; difh the rabbits, and pour the fauce over them all except the heads. The fame fauce ferves for a boiled goofe and boil- ed ducks. To make a Caparata. Cut down a cold fowl, and take all the Ikin and fat of it except the rump; minceS4 Cookery and Pastry. mince all the meat very fmall with a. knife; break the bones of it, and put them on with forne water, lemon-peel, and a blade of mace; let them boil un- til all the fubftance is out of them ; ftrain it off, and thicken it with a little butter knead in flour; chop fome yolks of hard eggs; put the minced fowl and eggs into the fauce ; let it get two or three boils ; juft before difhing, put in the fqueeze of a lemon, a fcrape of nut- meg, and a proper quantity of fait; broil the back of the fowl, and lay it on the top of the caparata. A cold roatted turkey maybe done in the fame manner. • General Rules for boiling Fowls. A young middling turkey will take three quarters of an hour; if it is large, you muft give allowance accordingly ; a hen will take half an hour, and a chicken a quarter of an hour. They aie the better of being blanched a whilein milk and water, and are much better of having their breafts rubbed with a piece of butter ; boil them in a clean cloth. All boiled meat, whether poultry or butcher-mear, ihould have plenty of water, and be boiled on a quick fire ; for there is a great -difference betwixt boiling and ftewing any thing. The proper fauces for all boiled poultry is a parfley, oyfter, fellery, or cream fauce. A Parfley Sauce. Pick and walli the parfley very well j put it into boiling water, and boil it tender ; drain the water from it; chop it very fma.ll, and mix beat butter a- mongfl it. An Oyfer Sauce. Clean theoyfters well,and fcald them; then boil them up in beat butter, and a little of their own liquor.* A Sellery Sauce. Cut the white ends of the fellery in pieces of about an inch long; boil it in E waterS6 Cookery and Pastry. water till it is tender ; thicken a little flock with butter knead in flour ; put in the fellery and a blade of mace, and let it boil a little. A Craarn Sauce. Take fome fweet cream ; let it come a-boil, ftirring it clofe to keep it from bratting; caft the yolks of three or four eggs, and mix in a little cold cream along with them ; then mix the boil- ing cream gradually amongft the eggs; turn it backwards and forwards to make it fmooth; put it on the fire to warm, but do not let it boil; ftir it all the time: fweeten it a little with fugar, and give it a ferape of nutmeg. Some choofe it without fugar ; in that cafe, put in a little fait. To boil Beef or Mutton in the juice. To every pound of beef allow a quar- ter pf an hour ; two hours will boil a large gigot of mutton. You muft take care, when taking it out of the pot, not to run a fork into it, elfe the whole juiceFlesh, 87 Ch. III. juice will run from it. You may put carrots and turnip, or cauliflower, about it, and pour a little beat butter over the mutton. In place of roots, you may give it a caper fauce, if you choofe it. To rocifc any piece of Venifon. Lard it, and feafon it with mixed fpices and fait ; let it lie four or five hours in fome claret or lemon-juice, turning it every hour; then l'pit and roafl it at a gentle fire; bade it with the wine that it lay in; take that which drops from it, and add fome gravy to it; thicken it with butter knead in flour, and a little ketchup ; boil it up, and pour it on the venifon. To ftenv Venifon. Cut it in thin dices, and put it into a (lew* pan with fome claret, fugar, a little vinegar, and fried crumbs of bread; feafon it properly with fait and fpices ; let it ftew until it is enough. E 2 Veni-83 Cookery and Pastry. Venifon in the Blood. Bone a fhoulder or a bread; of veni- fon ; let it lie in its own blood for a night ; take it up, and feafon it with fait and fpices : take fome winter fa- vory, fweet marjoram, and thyme; fhred them very fmall with fome beef- fuet chopped fmall; put it in a pan with the herbs, and dir it on the fire until it is thick ; then fpread it all over the venifon with fome of the blood ; roll it up in a collar, and bind it. You may, if you choofe, road it on the fpit, or dove it in gravy with fome claret and fhallots. Serve it up hot. Send up to the table with all roaded venifon a fau- cet of currant jelly. To flew Venifon that has been oajled. Take fome gravy, claret, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a little ketchup; brown fome butter ; thicken it with flour, and put it into the fauce with fait and fpi- ces ; let all boil until it is fmooth ; cut the venifon in thin dices, put it into the fauce,Flesh. 8$ Ch. nr. fauce, and give it one boil ; take out the herbs, give it the fqueeze of a le- mon, and then dilli it. To boil Venifon. Cut the venifon into llices of about half an inch thick ; feafon them with fait and fpices and crumbs of bread ; broil them on a clear fre, and give them a gravy fauce. To broil a Haunch of Venifon. Salt it for a week ; put it into boiling water; if it is large it will take two hours and a half to boil. You may fend it up with cauliflower, or anv kind of garden-duff you choofe, with melted butter. Venifon makes the fined of minced collops. You order them in the fame way as you do the beef or hare collops. To roajl and fluff a Turkey. Slit it up at the back of the neck ; take out the crop ; make the (luffing 3 of§o Cookery and Pastry. To cf crumbs of bread and currants, a lit- tle fugar, and a fcrape of nutmeg ; ■work it up with a piece of frcflh butter and a beat egg ; fill up the bread: with it, and fkewer it with the head looking ovej the wing ; it mufl be well floured and bailed with burner, and roafled ■with 2. dear quick fire ; put a gravy- fauce under it ; make a fauce of Tome thin lliced bread, iome water, a little white wine, a blade of mace, l'onie fu- gar, and a piece of fielH butter ; let all boil until it is very fmooth, and do not let it be too thick, Send it up in a fauce-boat. The heft Sauce for a roafted Hen, Take a gravy or an egg fauce. When you roaft fmall chickens, they look the better to be fluffed with crumbs of bread, fmall flared parfley, and a little fait wrought up with a good piece of frefh butter ; fill up the bellies with it. Young chickens require a little beat butter poured over them.Flesh. Ch. Ill, 91 To roqft a Goofe or Duck, A goofe or duck is the better of be- ing rubbed with pepper and fait with- in: fome choofe a fprig of lage in them. A goofe is the better of being rubbed with fait on its outlide two or three days before it is roafted. You fait the ducks on the fpit. Dilh up the goofe with gravy fauce, and garnifh it witlx raw onions ; fend up a plateful of apple- fauce along with it. When you draw the ducks off the fpit, pour a glafs of red wine through them, and mix them, well with the gravy. Green geefe and young ducklings, the newer they are killed the better before you put them to the fire; difh them with gravy-fauce; ferve up foine goofeberry-fauce made thus : Put fome green goofeberries on with fome water, a piece of frelh but- ter and fugar. Some choofe this fauce to roalted chickens. To drefs a Wild Duck. Half road it, and fcore it on the E 4 bread ;92 Cookery and Pastry. To bread ; put pepper and fah, and the juice of a lemon, on every (core ; lay the bread underarm (l in a (lew-pan with a little gravy ; let it flew a little ; then difh it, and put a glafs of claret in the gravy, and two or three (ballots fhred fmall; pour it over the ducks. > To ragoo a pair oj Ducks. Draw them ; and take the gizzards and the necks, and put them on to boil for a (lock for the fauce ; finge the ducks, andfeafon them within with fait and fpices ; duft them with Hour, and brown them on all (ides in a frying-pan; then take them out, and drew fome fait and fpices on them ; drain off the (lock, and thicken it with browned butter and flour ; put in fome red wine, ketchup, and walnut pickle, or the fqueeze of a lemon ; put the ducks into the fauce with fome whole onions ; dole up the pan, and let them (lew until they are tender; fcum all the fat of the fauce, and pour it on the ducks, and the whole onions with it.F L E S H. 93 ch. nr. To make a Tame Duck, pafs for a Wild one. Knock it on the head with a dick, that the blood may go through the body of it; drefs it in the fame way you do the wild ducks, and you will not know the difference. To pot Geefe the French •way. Put in what number of geefe you choofe to pot ; feed them on corn and- water; cleanout their place every day, and give them clean draw to lie on ; they muff be fed very fat, or they are not worth doing. Gut off the legs and wings, with as much of the bread: to them as you can ; rub the legs and wings very well with faltpetre, and lay them thirty-f x hours in it, but no long- er; take all the feam, and drip all the fat off the guts ; put the fat into a pot to boil, and when it is all melted, put in the legs and wings, and let them boil in the greafe until they are enough ; then take them up, and put them into a done jar, and pour in all the fat on them E 5 when;.94 Cookery and Pastry. when they are cold, have Tome mutton- luet rhinded, and fill up the jar, and tie up the pot with leather; they keep a long time. If you eat them cold, walli oft the fat with a little warm water, but they eat much better when hot ; they are warmed thus : Put a leg and a wing in a pan, with as much of the fat as will cover them, and let them boil in it until they are warm at the heart. Let none of the fat go to the table. A general Rule for roofing Wild Fowl. To all wild fowl the fpit fhould be very hot before you put them on it; fkewer them with their legs acrofs ; cut off only the feet ; and for the rough- footed wild fowl, fuch as black-cock and inuir-fowl, you keep all their feet on them, clple balling with butter; difh them on toafted bread, and pour plenty of beat frefh butter over them. When you roof wood cock or Jmpe, do not cut the heads off them nor gut them; fkewer them with their own bill ; balle them well with butter ; put toafted bread be- lowCh. III. Flesh. 95 low them, to keep what drops from the gut; difh them on the toaft, and pour beat butter over them. To pot any kind of Wild Fowl. ‘Draw the fowls, and trufs them ; fea£bn them with fait and mixed fpi- ces, and pack them in the potting-can with a good deal of fre{h butter ; clofe up the pot, and bake them in the oven ; when enough, pour off the butter and gravy from them ; fcum all the butter off the gravy, and add more to it. You may put them in fmall pots, and cover them with the melted butter. You may pot partridges or muir-fowl in the fame way as you do hare and beef; but re- member the partridges, muir-fowl, and hare, mult be either baked or roafted before you thread them, and order them as you do the beef. Venifon is potted in the fame manner. To pot Pigeons. Draw and trufs them ; feafon them well within with mixed fpices and fait;; £ 6 put:96 Cookery and Pastry. To put a piece of butter within every one of them ; put them in the potting-can with their breads undermod, and fome butter about them, and throw fome of the mixed fpices and fait over them ; put in a little water with them, and clofe them up. You may do them either in the oven or in a pot on the fire ; but they are much the bed in an oven. To Jiove Pigeons. StufFthem with forced meat; have fome good broth ready, and when it boils, put in the pigeons; take the hearts of fome cabbage-lettuce, and quarter them, put them in with the pigeons, and two or three green onions ; 1'eafon them with mixed fpices and fait, and thicken it with butter knead in flour ; clofe them up in the goblet, and let them dew till they are ready ; then lay the pigeons in the middle of the difli with the lettuce over them, and pour fome of their own broth into the difli. \97 Ch. HI. Flesh, To ragoo Pigeons. Trufs the pigeons as for boiling, and feafon them within with fpices and fait; brown fome butter in a frying-pan ; duft the pigeons with flour; put them in the frying-pan, and make them of a fine brown ; turn them often in the pan until they are alike browned; take them out, and lay them on a difli. You may make a very rich flock of the gizzards, pinions, livers, and hearts; walh them very clean, and put them on with fome water, an onion, a faggot of parfley, and winter favory ; let all boil until the ftrength is out of them ; drain it off, and turn it into a clean pan, keeping back the grounds; thicken it with browned butter and flour, and put in fome red wine ; feafon it with fait and fpices, a little ketchup, and truffles and morels, if you choofe: Put the pigeons in a flew-pan, and let them flew on a flow fire ; difli them neatly with their ilioulders outmofl, putting one in the middle; cut fome pickles, and mix them98 Cookery and Pastry. in the fauce, and pour it on them. If it is the feafon for afparagus, it looks very pretty to put a few between every pigeon, with the tops outmoft. To broil Pigeons whole. Seafon them within with fpices and fait; tie the fkin about the neck very clofe with a thread; put a piece of butter within them, and about half a fpoonful of water ; tie their feet and vent clofe up, fo that the liquor will not get out; let the gridiron be quite hot, and on a very clear fire; turn them often, to keep them from burning, until you find them thoroughly done ; be fure never to bafte any thing with butter upon the gridiron, becaufe it both fmokes and burns it; do not cut the threads from the neck and feet till they are difh- ed ; lay them neatly in the difh, and pour beat-butter over them ; they are very juicy done in this way. When you broil the pigeons open, fplit them down the back; make the bread: as flat aS'Ch. III. Flesh. 99 as you can, and turn in the legs ; be fure to fet the gridiron at a good dif- tance from the fire. Difguifed Pigeons. Seafon them with fpices and fait -r make puffed pade; roll it out pretty thick ; cut it in as many pieces as you have pigeons; roll the pade about every pigeon ; tie each of them in a cloth by itfelf, and put them into a pot of boil- ing water ; they will take no more than an hour’s boiling; take them out of the cloths, and difh them. A Pigeon Dumpling. Seafon the pigeons as high as for pot- ing ; make puffed pafle, and roll it out round, and about an inch thick ; lay a clean cloth in a bowl, and the pafle above it; put in the pigeons with their breads to the bottom of the bowl; put a piece of butter within every pigeon ; fold the pade round the pigeons, and tieioo Cookery and Pastry. tie the cloth tight about them ; they will take at leaf! two hours to boil. For all boiled puddings and dumplings, be Pure the pot is boiling before you put them in, and turn them frequently in the pot while boiling. For a change, you may drefs pigeons in the fame way as you do fried chicken. When you cut them, blanch them a little in warm water. To Jleiv cold roajled Wild Fowl or Hare. Cut down the wild fowl or hare in joints ; brown fome crumbs of bread in butter ; put them in to fome boiling ftock with fome red wine ; feafon it with fait and fpices ; then put in the cold fowl or hare ; let it get two or three boils, fo as to warm it thoroughly. If it is partridges, give it white wine in place of red. If you have no ftock made of beef by you, break the bones of the meat you are cutting down, and put it on with fome water, and an onion or two, and draw all the ftrength out of at. This makes a good flock for any hafliFlesh. Ch.M. id hafh of meat of any kind. You may put in cut pickles into any hafh when a- bout to difh them. To ragco Rabbits. Cut them down in joints, and divide the back in little pieces ; walk them very clean, and dry them with a cloth ; dull them with flour, and brown them ; thicken lome flock with a little browned butter and flour ; leal'on it with fait and fpices, a little wine if you choofe, the fqueeze of a lemon, and a little ketchup. Serve them up hot. To ftetv a Neat's Tongue whole. Wafh it very clean with fait and wa- ter ; put it in a very clofe goblet with as much water as will cover it ; let it flew for two hours ; then take it np, and fkin it. You may add to the broth that it boiled in a mutchkin of ftrong flock and a little white wine ; thicken it with a piece of freth butter knead in flour; put102 Cookery and Pastry. put in a faggot of fweet herbs, and fea- fon it with fait and mixed fpices. When the fauce boils, put in the tongue, and clofe up the pan. If it is a large tongue, it will take two hours to dew; cut fome fellery in pieces of about an inch long; parboil it, and put in the fauce, and let it boil till it is tender. Some choofe carrot and turnip in it in place of fel- lery. When you dilh it, drew in fome cut pickles; put the tongue in the middle of the difh, pour the fauce over it, and take out the fweet herbs. To hafh a cold Neat's Tongue, Slice it very thin, take as much dock as will cover it, and put fome crumbs of bread browned in butter into the dock. When it boils, feafon it with fait and fpices, a little ketchup, and a little of either red or white wine. If you choofe it, put in a few cut pickles when you are about to difh it. Dilh it on fippets of toaded bread cut in triangular forms, and let a little of them appear at the fide of the hafh. Let no halhed meatCh. III. Fl E 5 H. 103 meat get more boiling than warm it thoroughly. A Sauce for a ronfted "Tongue. Slice fome bread very thin; put it on •with a little water, a piece of frefh but- ter, fome red wine, a fcrape of nutmeg, and a proper quantity of fugar; let it boil until it is very ftnooth ; put it in a fauce-difh, and fend it to the table, tiome choofe currant-jelly in place of wine ; others choofe nothing but beat- butter and vinegar in their fauce, or capers, if you have them. To potch Eggs •with Sorrel. Tie up fome forrel in fmall faggots; boil it; cut the firings, and lay the fag- gots round the difh neatly; fpread them a little, leaving a fpace between every faggot; cut fome toafted bread long- ways, and put a piece between every bunch of the forrel; potch fome eggs very1 104 Cookery and Pastry. very nicely ; take them carefully out, and drain the water from them ; lay them above the forre) and the bread, allowing a little of the bread and green tops to be feen ; beat home frelh butter, and pour it over them. An Autnuilete. Take ten eggs, or a dozen if fmall ; break and call them, but not too much; put in a little fweet cream, and feafon it with fait and a fcrape of nutmeg; Ihredfomeparfley and onions very fmall, and mix them with the eggs ; take a good piece of butter, let it boil a little in a frying-pan ; pour in the eggs a- mongft it, and fire it, but not too hafli- ly. When it begins to fallen, raifie it frequently with a knife from the bot- tom of the pan in different parts, to let the butter in below it. It muff be fried on both hides. If the ribs are clear, hold it before the fire ; it mult not be too hard done.;h.lV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 105 andOnions, coTtimotily ccillcdx.heOnion Difh. Boil fome eggs hard ; cut fome onions n dices acrofs, and fry them with Drown'd butter 5 take them carefully Dut of the butter, and drain it from :hem ; cut the eggs in round dices ; beat fome fredi butter; mix in fome mudard md vinegar ; then put in the eggs and onions, and tofs it upon the fire, and difh it. CHAP. IV. PIES, PASTIES, &c. A Beef-Jleak Pie. AKE a tender fat piece of beef; cut it in thin dices, and beat it well with a rolling pin ; feafon them with fait and fpices ; divide the fat pie- ces from the lean, and lay a fat and a lean piece together fo far as they will go ; then roll them up as you do beef collops,ic6 Cookery and Pastry. collops, and pack them neatly 'in the dilh, but don’t prefs them hard ; cover it with puff’d pafte, firit putting in a little water; be lure to lay a cover of the pafte on the lip of the dilh. Before you lay on the whole cover, dip your fingers in water, and draw them alongft the edge of the plate, before putting on the firft row of the pafte ; then wet this pafte in the fame manner before you lay on the cover, otherwife it would not join together. \ I To make a Mutt on-/leak Pie. Cut the back ribs of mutton in {ingle ribs ; feafon them as in the above re- ceipt ; lay them in the difh with a little gravy " or water, as you choofe. You may put in fome potatoes and chopt ihallot. You may put fhallot into the beef-pie ; cover it in the fame way as above with ftuff’d pafte. To make a Venifon Pafty. Bone the piece of venifon, and feafon it with black pepper and fait ; let it lie all'h.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 107 1 night in the feafoning ; break the ones; put them on, and draw a good ravy from tiiem. You may boil fome hole pepper in it; cover the pafty-pan ith puff’d pafte ; be fure to roll out he pafte very thick ; lay in the meat in he pan, and put fome of the gravy in with it; if the venifon is lean, take a ilap of fat mutton ; let it lie all night in fome red wine and vinegar ; lay it on the top of the venifon ; then clofe it up, and fend it to the oven : it takes a long time of baking. When you draw it out of the oven, fhake it. If you think it has not enough of gravy about it, pour in more at the top. A mock Venifon Pajly. Bone a fore-leg of mutton; take a mutchkinof its own blood, and as much claret; lay the mutton to foak in it for twenty-four hours, and feafon it in the fame way as the venifon pafty ; lay it into the pan, and fill it with as much of the blood and claret it was foak’d in asio8 Cookery and Pastry. as it will hold : it will not take To long time of baking as the venifou one. To make a Veal Florentine. - Cut the veal in pieces ; if it is a rib piece, divide the ribs, and beat them with the chopping-knife ; feafon them with fait and fpices ; put a little piece of butter in the bottom of the dilh, and lay in a row of the fteaks ; then (trow in fome currants and raifins above the fteaks ; lav on another row of meat and fruit, until the difh is full, and put in a little water. If the veal is not very fat, lay on fome more butter on the top of it, and <2over it with pulFd pafte. You may do a lamb pie the fame way. Some people do not love fweet feafoning in meat-pies ; in that cafe, you may put in oyfters, the yolks of hard eggs, and arti- choke bottom^. Thefe three articles may go into all pies that have no fweet feafoning in them ; but they are very good without them. ToCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 109 To make a Pigeon Pie. Trufs the pigeons asffor boiling; fea- fon them within with fpices and fait; put a piece of butter into every pigeon; put fome butter in the bottom of the ddh, and pack them in neatly. You may fill up the vacancies between them with the gizzards, livers, and pinions; drew a little more of the feafoning over them. In all meat-pies, remember to put a little water or gravy in them ; cover it with puff’d pafte. To make a Chicken Pie. Trufs and feaffn the chickens as you do pigeons; put a piece of butter in them and a piece in the bottom of the dilh ; pack the chickens neatly in it, andftrow currants and ratlins over them, and lay pieces of butter above them (frefli but- ter is the belt ;) cover it with puff’d pafle. When it comes out of the oven, have a caudle ready, made thus : Beat the > oiks of two eggs,and mix with them a gill of white wine, the fame quantity F ofmo Cookery and Pastry. peel cut final 1 ; put them into a broad of cream, feme fugar, and a ferape of nutmeg ; make it vei y iinooth ; pour it in at the top of the pie, and fhake it well. If the chickens are very large, you may cut them in quarters. If you don’t like them with fweet feafoning, you may put in the yolks of hard eggs and arti- choke bottoms. To make fuperjine minced Pics. Take the larged neat’s tongue you can get; let it lie forty-eight hours in fait ; then boil it ; blanch and fkin it take the fined part of the tongue, and mince it, and four pounds of the bed beef-fuet you can get, very final 1 ; take a pound and a half of ralfins don’d, and cut fin all, the fame weight of currants clean’d, half a dozen of apples pair’d, a pound of citron, and a pound of orange- veffel, and mix all thefe materials well together ; beat half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, about two drops of cloves, two nutmegs or three according to their fize, the grate of two large lemons, and two or M&ui - •111 Ch.IV. Pies, Pasties, che. or three tea-fpoonfuls of fait ; mix the fait, fpices, and lemon, grate very well together ; then feafon the minced meat with them; be fare to mix them until the feafoning be all equally through them; then fqueeze the juice of a le- mon into a mutchkin of ftrong wine, and pour it on the minced meat; mix all well together; then prefs them hard into a can ; put a piece of white paper clofe upon the meat, and tie paper oil the mouth of the can ; then lay them up for ufe. if you are careful, when you take out any of it, to prefs the re- mainder hard clown, and paper them well up, they will keep twelve months. When you want to uie them, cove;' the petty-pans with puff’d pafle, and £11 them up with the minced meat; nick the upper cruft with a kmfe ; cover them, and make them neat!v up. and lire them in the oven. To make a common lAlnced Pie. Take a tender piece of beef, according to the nze you want the pie ; mix in i 2 fome3ia Cookery and Pastry. peel cut fmall put in it. fome fuet with the beef and mince both very fine; feafon with mixed fpices and a little fait; Hone and cut a large hand- ful of raifihs, and clean well as many currants ; cover it with puff’d pafte as above. It is much the better if the meat is moiflened with a glafs or two of wine, having a little citron and orange- To make a Gibblet Pie. Scald and dean the gibblets very well, and chop the wings in two ; pull the neck out of the fkin, and chop it in four pieces, and cut the gizzards in pieces ; feafon them with fait and fpices ; keep the blood of the goole, and drain it through a fearce ; boil a few groats a while in fweet milk ; mince fome fuet fmall; mix the groats and fuet with the blood ; feafon them with fait and fpices, and a little mint Hired fmall, if you choofe it; fill it into the fkin of the neck, and few up the ends of it; turn it round, and lay the pudding in the middle of the difh with the gibblets round im...Ch. IV. Pies Pasties, &c. 113 round it; pour in a little gravy with them; cover with puff’d pafte, and fire it in the oven. T7 make a Hare or Muirfomul Pie. Cut the. hare in pieces; feafon it with fait and fpices very well. If it is muir- fowl, keep them whole, and feafon them well within and without ; lay a good piece of butter in the bottom of the difh, and put a piece in each of the muirfowl; lay them in the difh with dices of but- ter above them ; put in a little gravy or water with them ; cover them with puff’d pafte, and fire it in the oven. Warm a little gravy and claret; thicken, it with the yolk of an egg or two, and pour it in at the top when the pie comes out of the oven, and diake it weh. Thcfe pies fhould alwavs be eat hot. Whatever pies you fill up, always ufe a filler ; for the f nice is apt to run over and fpoil the pafte. To make a Kernel Pie. Scald the kernels in boiling water; F 3 make.-114 Cookery and Pastry. make forc’d-meat balls of veal, if you have it; it is more corirefpondent to make them of veal than beef; fry them oil in the frying- pan ; beat a little white pepper and mace, the grate of a lemon, and fome fait, and feafon the kernels v/ith them ; lay fome Irelh butter in the bottom of the dish ; put in the kernels and balls, and cover them with puff’d pafte ; warm a little white gravy, with fome white wine, the fqueeze of a lemon, and the grate of a nutmeg, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs ; pour it into the pie when it comes out of the oven, and fhake it; put in a little gravy alongft with the kernels. If you have plenty of artichoke bottoms, you may put them into any'meat pies. To make a Calf's-foot Pic. Boil the feet tender ; mince them and fome beef-fuet, and fome apples cut fmall; feafon them with beat cinnamon and nutmeg ; clean and pick fome cur- rants well, and mix them all together with a little fugar, and a glafs or two of w hi teGh.1V. PfES, Pasties, &c. 115 white wine: pouron the wine, and cover all with a good puff’d paffe. The paffe ought to be nicely carved out. When the pa he is enough, the pie is ready. A Marrow Pafty, Blanch fix ounces of fweet almonds; cut them very final!; pare half a dozen of large apples, and cut them very finall ; cut alfo a Quarter of a pound of citron and orange peel very fmall ; take three quarters of a pound of marrow cut in pieces. If you are fcrirnped of marrow, make it up with beef-fuet Hired very fmall; mix all well together, and lea fun them with fugar and beat cinnamon ; cover it with puff’d paffe nicely carved out, and fire it in the oven. An Eyg pis. Boil a dozen of eggs hard, and cut them very i.nall; clean about a pound of currants ; take a gill of fweet cream, a little white wine, and a little role wa- ter ; lealbn it with beat cinnamon, fu- gar, and the grate or a lemon, it will f 4 take• ' ' - '1 116 CookeRy and Pastry. take three quarters of a pound of frefh butter: mix all together, and cover it wuli a carved palte as above, and fire it in the oven. An Eel Pie. Skm the eels, and cut off the heads and tins ; cut them about two inches long; feafon them with fait and fpices • put them into the difh with a little but- ter and white wine, and the juice of a lemon ; put in halt a mutchkin of wa- ter, and cover it with puff’d pafle. You may make pike or trout pies in, the fame way j only put mere butter in the dilh with them than with cels. A Curd Florentine. Prefs the whey well from two pounds of curds, and break them with a fpoon ; beat a pound of fwreet almonds with fomeroie or orange-flower water; clean half a pound of currants ; cut fome boiled fpinage fmall with a knife ; fweeten it properly; oil eight ounces of butter, and mix all well together; make ai T7 Ch> IV Pr£S, Pa st ies', &c. a fine puff’d pafte, and lay a thin co- vering of it on the difli ; then put in the fauce, and cover it with a carved pafte or bard over it; put it in a flow- oven ; and when the pafte is enough baked, the florentine is ready. An Apple Pie. Pair and quarter the apples, and core them ; feafon them v/ith fugar, beat cinnamon, and the grate of a lemon. If you would have a very rich apple pie, put in fome fton’d raifins, blanch’d al~ mons, citron, and orange peel cut down ; cover them with puff’d palte. Don’t' be fparing of fugar to any fruit pie. An Apple Pie 'with Potatoes. Eoil fome potatoes; pairand cut fiome- apples; lay a row of apples in the difh, and a row of potatoes above them; then put feme pieces of frefh butter abovethe potatoes, put apples, potatoes, and but- ter alternately, until the pie is filled up ; fweetendt to your tafie ; take rather more apples than potatoes ; it is much F 5 better118 Cookery and Pastry. better of having a little citron and o- range-peel in it; put a little water in all apple pies ; cover it with puff'd pafte. A Che/nut Pie. Scald the chefnuts, and take off the fkins ; blanch fome almonds ; pare and quarter fome apples ; put lome frefh butter in the bottom of the difh; lay in a row of chefnuts, a row of apples, and a row of almonds, with cut citron and orange-peel, and drew infugar between the rows ; put fome more frefh butter on the top of it, and cover it with puff’d pafte. A Goofeberry Pie. Cover the difh with pafte ; pick the gcofcberries, and lay them in the difh with plenty of fugar (you can fcarcely make a goofeberry pie too fweet), and put in a little water: If you want it rich, put'in citron and orange-peel; cover it with puff’d pafte. If you eat any of thefe fruit pies cold, cut off the cover, and pour cream over them.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i 19 P 6 ter„ To make Pujf'd Pafte. For one pound of flower allow three quarters of a pound of butter ; mix in about the fourth part of the butter a- .monglt the flour ; wet it with cold wa- ter ; then work it until it is very finooth ; cut the pafle through with a knife. If it is fmooth in the heart, it is enough knead ; roll it out long ways, and put t!ie butter on it in fmall pieces ; then lhake fomc dry flour on it ; fold the two ends of it together ; then roll it out a little again, and put on butter and flour as above, and continue fo do- ing till all the butter is taken up; the oftener it is folded, the more diviflons will there be in the pafle. Molt people put eggs in their pulFd pafle. It does very well when it is to be eat hot; but when eat cold, it makes it very tough and hard. A common Pie Pafte. With a pound of flour mix half a pound of butter; wet it with cold v a-120 Cookery and Pastry. ter, and work it very fmooth : roll it out for any ufe you intend it. To make Pajle for the Cafes of prefcrved Tarts. Take a pound of flower; grate in a little fugar, and mix it with fix ounces of frefli butter; wet it with cold water; work it very flnooth, and roll it out equal, but not too thick ; divide the pafce, take the one half, and cut tops for the tarts; and cut them into figures with a pen- knife ; line the petty-pana with the other half; prick them with a pin, to keep them from bliflering in the oven ; put the carved tops on cro- cants to fire. If you have none, you muft put each of them feparately on a piece of paper ; they mud be fired in a flow oven, elfe they will difcolour. E~ very family fhould have fome by them, for they'keep a long time, and make a ready diih, as you have nothing more to do but fill them up with your pre- fer ved fruit, and lay the tops on them. You will gctcrocants and cutters for the tops121 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties,&c. tops out of any white-iron frniths : they are much neater and quicker than cutting with a knife. A Pafle for raijed Pies. For two pounds of dour take a pound of butter, and boil it in a mutchkin of water ; pour the butter and water into the flour, keeping back the fediment; then work it up to a pafle, and before it is cold, raife it up to any fhape you pleafe. If the pafle is not wet enough, boil a little more water and put it in. To make Apple Tarts. Pare fome apples ; cut them pretty final], and put them in as much cold water as will cover them. If you have a piece of lemon-peel, Aired it final], and put it in amongft them ; let them boil until they are quite to a malh; turn them often in the pan ; fweeten them, and give them a boil after the fu^fr is in ; mix in fome beat cinnamon when they come ofl the fire ; and when they are cold, put them in your petty-pan&, and.and cover them with open pa lie, or hai- red over: when the patle is fired, tliev are enough. Goofeberry Tarn. Scald the goofeherries, but don’t let them boil ; then cover the petty-pans with pafte : when the berries are cold put them m the pans with a Pood de^l of fugar below and above them and cover them in the fame way as the apple ones. 11 Cherry Tarts. Stone tne chen ies j and for each pound of them take three quarters of a pound of fugar; wet it with a gill of water; boil and fcuin it; then put in the cherries, and let them boil fome time; when they are cold, fill up the petty-pans, and cover them as the for- mer. To make Rajberry or Currant Tarts. Pick the currants from the flalks; put a good deal of fugar above and below them; -- ----- —■ • ate123 JlCh.IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. them ; be fare to give them loaf-fugar, forcoarle fugar fpoils both the tafle and coiour ; cover them, and fire them in the oven. To make Prune Tarts, Stew- the prunes with water, claret, and a proper quantity of fugar ; done Ijfome of them, and keep fome of them unflon’d; put them with the liquor they were dewed in into the pans; co- ver them, and fire them in the oven. ! You may keep out the wine, if you choofe; but they are much the better of it. Peach or Apricot Tarts. Take the peaches or apricots before they are quite ripe, (lone and pare them; you may cut them in quarters or halves; put a good deal of beat loaf-fugar in the bottom of the pan; lay in the fruit amongfl it; dir them often on the fire; let them boil a little while, and when cold, put them into the petty-pans, and the fyrup alongft with them; cover themI24 Cookery and Pastry. them with puff'd pafte, but not open thetopas the other tarts are, be- Cciufe they take more firing. To make a Glazing for Tarts. Take the white of an egg and fome grated double-refined fugar; caff them veiy well together till it is light and w,hthe;r A l fine t3rtS m°uld be Slated v 1CV 1C sem]y OQ the parte with a feather before you put them in the oven. To make a Light Boil'd Pudding. Take a dozen of eggs; keep out four ot the whites, and call them with fix fpoonfuls of flour quite fmooth. mix haIf a P'nt of milk; fweeten it to your talle, and put in a little fait; eafon it with beat cinnamon and a glafs Ife,’ bl’"f a bowl very well, and ft 1 it full with the pudding; take a clean cloth, and butter the part that goes on the bowl very well, and drudge fome flour on it; tie the cloth very tight about the bowl; turn the mouth of the bow! undermofl125 Ch.IV. Pies, Pasties, Sec. .undermoft into a pot of boiling water ; be fure the pot never goes oil the boil, i and it will be enough in three quarters l of an hour. A boiled Cujlard Pudding, Take ten eggs ; keep out fix of the whites ; caft them very well with fome fugar; take a mutchkin and a half of ! fweet cream; feafon it with beat cinna- mon and the grate of a lemon; butter a cloth or bowl; tie it very dole up, and put it into a boiling pot: a quarter of an hour will boil it. A Plumb Pudding. Stone and lhrcd a pound of raifms; pick and clean a pound of currants ; mince a pound of fuet; beat eighteggs with four fpoonfuls of Hour till it is very fmooth ; put in a little fait ; fea- fon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and a gill of brandy; mix all well together, and tie them up very hard ; put it in a pot of boiling water; it will take four hours boiling. A126 Cookery and Pastry. A plain Suet Pudding. Mince a pound of fuet very fmall; cad fix or feven eggs and a pound of flour ; feafon it with fair, ginger, nut- meg, and a dram. If you find it very ftifftocaft, you may put a little milk in it; mix all well together ; butter a cloth, and tie it up ; it will take three hours boiling. A Boiled Bread Paddin?. Cut the heart of a twopenny loaf in very thin llices ; boil a chopin of milk; pour it over the bread, and cover it up for half an hour ; beat ten eggs ; fea- fon it with beat cinnamon, the grate of a lemon, if you have it, a ferape of nutmeg, a little fait, and lhgar to your tafle. You may put in fome currants arid minced fuet ; butter a cloth, and tie it dole up. it will take two hours boiling, if it has fuet and currants in it; if without them, only an hour and an half. If you intend it for a fide affet, halfI Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 127 half the quantity will do it, and it will take lefs boiling. A boiled Rice Pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and put it on with a chopin of cold milk aud a good piece of freih butter ; keep it clofe Airring on the lire till it boils : if you And it not very thick, Air in fomc more rice till it is like thick pottage ; caft Ax eggs ; mix them very well with the rice and milk, and fweeten it to your taAe ; put in a very littie fait; fealon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, ' the grate of a lemon, and a dram ; but- ter a cloth, and tie it up clofe ; it will take an hour to boil. The proper fauce for ail boiled pud- dings is frelli butter beat with wine and fugar. When you butter a cloth to boil a pudding in, dredge a little flour over the butter. You will obferve, in the boiling of an puddings, that the pot mull be kept full of water, and ne- ver allow it to go o if the boil; turn .the pudding frequently in the pot, efpeci-128 Cookery and Pastry. ally at the beginning, till the pudding is well faflened. A Pcafe Pudding. Takea pound of fplit peafe, or more as you have occafion; tie them up in a cloth not too clofe, that they may have room to fvvell ; let them boil an hour ; then take them up and mix a good piece of butter in them, and tie them up hard ; they will take near another hour’s boiling ; divide the pudding in two, and lay the pork in the middle. Send beat-butter along with them to the table. A whole Rice Pudding. Take half a pound of ricej wadi it well in water, and boil it ill a chopin of fweet milk till it is aim oft dry, flir~ ring it on the fire to keep it from burn- ing ; ftir in fix ounces of frefh butter; let it cool a little ; cad five or fix eggs; mix with them about a gill of fweet cream ; them mix all together ; feafou with cinnamon, nutmeg, fugar, and a dram ;Ch. IV. Pjes, Pasties, &c. 129’ dram ; Pone and clean half a pound of currants and raifins, and put them in. In all baked puddings, be fure to rub a little butter on the diiki before you put it in. Garnifh all baked puddings with puffed pafte in any figure you choofe. Another Rice Pudding. Take the flour of rice, and boil it in • the fame way as you do the boiled rice pudding ; beat five eggs and mix them with the rice and milk ; fweeten it to your tafte ; feafon it pretty high with the grate of oranges. If you have not this, feafon it with any fpiceyou pleafe, and give it a dram ; but when it is high flavoured with the oranges, it needs 110 dram ; put it in the oven. A Lair Pudding. Beat eight eggs; keep out four of the whites; mix in a mutchkin of fweet milk, and fweeten it to your tafle; fea- fon it with cinnamon, nutmeg, and a dram ; cut fome very thin flices of a loaf130 Cookery and Pastry. t loaf of fine bread ; dry it before the ; fire, or in an oven ; it muff not be brown*, have feme fuet finely fhred, : lome currants and raifins floned and ; cleaned ; lay a row of f’uet in the bottom . of the difh ; then break the dried bread in pieces, and put a row cf it above the fuet, then a row of fruit; take the milk and eggs, and put it over the bread in fpoonfuls till the bread is moillened with it; then begin again with a row of fuet, bread, and fruit, until the difh is full, and put in as much of the eggs and milk as the difh will admit of; it Ihould foak an hour before you put it in the oven ; and as the bread fucks up the cuffard, add more until the plate is quite full; It takes very little firing, for when the cuffard is curdled it is not good ; when the milk and eggs are well fattened, it is enough. A Marrow Pudding. Grate the crumbs of a twopenny loaf; boil three mutclikins of fweet cream, and pour it boiling-hot on the gratedCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. *3« grated bread ; beat fix eggs ; cut a pound of fmarrow in pieces, not too fmall ; done and clean fome currants and raifins ; fweeten it to your tade, and feafbn it with cinnamon and nut- meg *, mix all thefie materials well toge- ther, and put them in a diili. If you have not marrow, good beef-fuet decs very well; but it muft be minced very fine. If you want this or any of the boiled puddings to appear yellow, deep fome faffroii in a little milk, or dram, or rofe water, and mix it in the pudding ; put it in the oven and fire it. A Tanfy Pudding. Cut thin dices of fine bread ; boil fome cream, and pour it boiling on the bread ; cover it up till the bread has fucked up all the cream ; beat ten eggs, and keep out four cf the whites ; mix them in with the bread, and fweeten it to your tade; beat fome tanfy, and fqneeze out the juice through a clean cloth ; put in as much of it as make it bitter to your tafle ; put in fome of the juice13- Cookery ar.d Pastry. juice of fpinage with it to make it of a fine green ; put in a dram, the fcrape of a nutmeg, and four ounces of frefh but- ter; put all into a pan, and give it a heat on the fire till it is pretty thick ; then put it into a pudding-pan, and fire it * offin the oven. When you are to fend it to the table, drew fugar on the top, and diced orange. If you make it with milk indead of cream, you mud put a great deal more butter in it. An Orange Pudding. Take the yolks of a dozen of eggs; beat and fift half a pound of fugar ; put it in by degrees, and cad it amongft the eggs with a knife ; it mud be cad un- til they are thick and white. If you have the conferve of oranges, put in as much of it as give it a fine fade, and cad it along with the eggs. If you have not this, put fome beat marmalade in place of it. Beat two ounces of fugar- bifcuit; mix all well together, and you mud cad it conftantly until it goes into the oven, or it won’t be light; jud when it \•Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, 13.3 it is ready to go into the oven, pour in ii *e or fix ounces of frefh butter oiled, but do not let it be too hot when you put it in ; mix all well together, and put it in the oven. A Lemon P-udding. Grate the rhind of three or four le- mons, and lay it to fleep in a gill of brandy j beat the yolk of ten or twelve eggs, as in the above receipt, with the fame quantity of fugar, bifeuit, and butter. You muft order it every way as in the orange pudding ; all the diffe- rence is in the feafoning, the one lemon and the other orange ; and wherever orange grate is, it needs no fpirits to raife it. A Citron Pudding. Slice half a pound of citron thin, and fired it very fmall with a knife ; beat and fft half a pound of fugar ; beat the citron and fugar very well together in a marble mortar; have the yolks of ten or a dozen of eggs call, until they are G likeJ 34 Cookery and Pastry. like a cream; then mix them by de- grees into the beat fugar and citron, and call them very well with a fpoon or a knife. Yon may mix in a very little - fugar-bifcuit. Put in as much of the juice of fpinage as make it of a fine green ; mix all well together. When y6u are juft about putting it into the oven, put in a dram and oiled butter, and mix it very well. In all fine baked puddings, let the oiled butter be the laft tiling you put in, and let it not be too hot. You may make a lemon pudding little inferior to a citron one, by putting in a good piece of citron cut very fmall amongft it, and green it with the juice of fpinage. A Green Gocfeberry Pudding. Put on a pint of goofeberries with a very little water ; let them boil to a mafti, and thru ft them through a fearce with the back of a fpoon; beat ten eggs, keeping out fix of the whites; then take all the fine pulp of the goofeberries that comes through the fearce, and beat*35 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. G 2 call up with the eggs, and half a pound of fugar. If it is not fweet enough, put in more. You may mix in it fome citron and orange-peel cut {mail, with a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifcuit. Juft when you are about to put it in the oven, pour in the oiled butter, and mix all well together. An Apple Pudding. Roaft feven or eight large apples; take the fkins oft, and fcrape out all the pulp; beat the fame quantity of eggs, and all the other materials, as in the foregoing receipt. Thcfe two puddings you may green with i pin age-juice, as they look the better of it. An Almond Pudding. Blanch half a pound of fweet almonds and a few bitter ones ; beat them very fine, fo that they will fpread on your fingers like a palte ; be lure as you beat to wet them with fome brandy ; beat the yolks often or a dozen of eggs, with half a pound of fugar beat and fifted ;Co.OKery and Pastry. caft them till they are light and white. You may put in about an ounce of beat bifcuit, and ieafon it with the grate of Grange or lemon, if you have it, and lame oiled butter. A Sago or Millet Pudding. Put on the fago with a chopin of wa- ter, a ftick of cinnamon, and the rhind «of a lemon; let it boil till it is pretty thick; put in half a mutchkin of white Wine, .and fugar to your tafle ; beat ltx eggs well, keeping out half of the whites ; mix all well together. You may make a millet pudding the fame way ; only boil the millet m milk, and give it two or three eggs more, and give it a dram in place of wine ; .let them be pretty cold before you mix m the eggs and oiled butter. A Potatoe Padding. When the potatoes are boiled and fkinned, take half a pound of -the belt of them, and beat them very well m a mortar: beat nine eggs, and, keep out three€h. IV. Pies, Pasties, Sec. tj7' three of the whites ; Gaft them thick with half a pound of iiigar; mix in with the potatoes half a mutchkin of cream ; then caft them up well together w.th the fugar and eggs ; feafon it with cinnamon and nutmeg, and give it a good dram; it will take half a pound or oiled butter at leaft. A common Potatoe Pudding to be fired below roafied meat. Boil and {kin as many potatoes as will fill the difh ; boat them, and mix in fome fweet milk ; put them on the fire with a good piece of butter; feafon them properly with fait and fpices. borne chooie an onion Ihred final!, and put in it. Put it in the difh and fire it below the meat, until it is of a line brown on tile top ; caft three eggs- well, and mix in with the potatoes before you put them in the difli ; it makes it rife, and eat light; pour off all the fat that drops from the meat, before you fend it to the table : it eats very well with roailed. beef or mutton. G l 4138 Cookery and Pastry. A Bread Budding to be Jired below meat. Take a chopin of milk, and (lice down as much of the heart of a fine loaf as- make it very thick ; put it on the fire and boil it. If you fee it too thin of bread, put in a little more ; let it boil until it is pretty thick, flirring it from the bottom of the pan to keep it from burning ; put in a handful of fuet; if you have none, put In a piece of frefh butter ; take it off the fire, and fweetcn it to your tafhe ; feafon it with what fpices you choofe ; beat fix eggs, and let the pudding be a little cold before you p it them in; mix all well together, and put it into a difh, and fire it below the meat; turn the difh often, to make it of an equal brown ; pour off all the fat before you fend it to the table.. A Hajly Budding. Order as much bread and milk, and in the lame way as in the above receipt, as will fill a finall bowel to fit an afiet; putCh. IV, Pies, Pasties, &c. 139 put in a piece of frefh butter ; pick and clean a handful of currants, and boil them alongil with the bread and milk} call four eggs, and put in it; feafon it with cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar ; after the eues are in, ftir it a while on uu I the fire to fallen it, but don’t let it come a-boil ; then butter a bowl very well, and put the pudding in it ; fet it before the fire, or in a white-iron oven, turn- ing the bowl often. If the fire is pretty hot, it will very foon faften ; turn it out of the bowl into an aflet, and fend up to the table the fame fauce as for the former boiled puddings. A Carrot Pudding. Boil fome good carrots ; and when they are well clean’d, weigh half a pound of them ; beat them very fine in a mor- tar ; mix two or three fpoonfuls of fweet cream along with them ; beat ten (keep out hali of the whites) with halt a pound of fugar ; mix all well to- gether, and feafon it with beat cinna- mon, or orange grate, if you have it, as G 4 it*4° Cookery and Pastry-.. it makes it eat like an orange pudding-; mix eight ounces of oil’d- butter in it, jail when you are about putting it into the oven. \ An Apple Dumpling. Make a good puff’d palle ; roll it out about halt an inch thick ; pair the ap- ples, and cut them down very final!'; then butter a cloth, and put it into a bowel ; lay the palle in it, and put in the apples, wrap the paite about the apples, and tie the cloth hard up. If it is. a large one, it will take three hours boiling ; if a little one, lefs time will do it. You may make any fruit dumpling in the fame way ; currants, cherries, rafberries, apricots, or any fruit you pleale. Molt people don’t Iweeten them until after they come out of the pot; but I always found it better to Iweeten them before I put them, in; for the fugar al- ways incorporates, better with the fruit. If it is an apple dumpling, cut out a piece of the palle at the top, and. put in 5LCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 141' a piece of- frefh butter, and lay on the- piece again. Sir Robert Walpole's Dumplings. Take a pound of fuet; Hired it finally grate fome dale bread, till you have a- _ bout three, quarters of a- pound ; pick and clean about a pound of currants ; cut a quarter of a pound of orange-peel and citron fmall; mix all together, and ieafon it with cinnamon and fugar; call fix or eight eggs, and keep out half of the whites ; mix in the eggs with the other ingredients, and a dram ; it mud be no more than wet with the eggs, to to make it Hick like a-pafte- You lhould have filial 1 nets, wrought of fmall pack- thread ; put in every one into a net, until they are about the iize of a good large apple ; tie- them dole in the net; make them all of onefize, except one for the middle, make it a little larger ; put them into a pot of boiling water ; they will take about an hour’s boiling. If you have no nets, you may tie them up in pieces of clean rags ; difh them, and G 5 pour142 Cookery and Pastry. To pour beat butter, wine, and fugar over them. To make Curd-cheefe Cakes, Earn two pints of milk ; put it on the back of a fearce, and let the whey drain from it: when it is well drain’d, beat the curd in a mortar; beat a quar- ter of a pound of fugar-bifeuit; mix it with the curd, and fweeten it to your talte ; beat four eggs; have half a pound of currants pick’d and cleaned y caft them all well up together ; feafon them with cinnamon and orange-grate^ and a dram in fix ounces of oil’d frefli butter; beat them all well together y have fome petty-pans covered with puff’d paffe; put in the cheefe-cake meat, but don’t fill the pans too full j glaze them over with a beat egg and fugar ; cut the pafle with a runner like draws, and ornament the tops with them in any figure you pleafe; put them in the oven, and fire them.Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 143 To make Lemon Cheefe-cakes. Boil the fkins of three lemons until they are as tender as they will be ; but take off the grate before you boil them : beat them very fine with half a pound of fine fugar ; beat fix eggs, but keep out the half of the whites ; caff them until they are light and white ; mix * them very well; feafon them with le- mon-grate and cinnamon; put in a little brandy, and fix. ounces of oiled butter. After mixing all well together, put them in the petty-pans, but don’t fill them near full, and fire them in the oven. To make Almond Chcefe-cakcs. Blanch and beat half a pound of al~ jnonds ; wet them with a little brandy while you are beating them ; caft fix eggs (keeping out four of the whites) with fine fugar, and caft all together with the almonds ; feafon them with the grate of lemons or oranges ; put in fix ounces of oil’d frefli butter \ mix all G 6 wellI'M- Cookery and ^astry. well together ; put. them in the petty*- pans, and fire them in the. oven.. To. make Cujlards. Take a mutchkin of good fweet cream; put it on the fire with a, flick of cinna- mon and lemon-peel; let; them boil un- til the ffrength is out of the cinnamon, ilirring it always- one way to keep ft from bratting ; call the yolks of eiglrt eggs till they are very lighuand fmooth;. mix- them with a* gill of cold cream then mix them by degrees- with the- boil’d- cream ; take out the cinnamon and ■ lemon-peel, and fweeten the cream to your tafle ; put them into cups, nd fire them. You may put a little-wine in.i them, if you choofe it. To make Rice Cujlards. Boil a mutchkin of fweet milk with. two ounces of frefh butter ; put in two ounces of the flower of rice with the cold milk, and let them boil for a little time together ; beat two eggs, and mix them with the boil’d milk and rice : ftir them onH5 Cli. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. To on the fire until they thicken, but don’t let them boil ; feafon them with the grate of an orange and fugar j then put them into cups. To make Almond Cuflards. Put on a mutchkin of cream witEk cinnamon and lemon-peel, as in the former cuflards, the fame quantity erf eggs, mixed in the fame way with the cold cream; blanch and beat a quarter of a pound of almonds-; wet them with, a little' role-water aa you* beat them ; then mix them with the eggs ; mix the warm cream and them altogether by degrees, and lweeten them to your tafle ; put them on the fare again, keeping them; ftirrmg one way ; but don’t let milk or eggs ever come to a-boil ; put them into cups, and fire them. Yon may fire all cuflards in a flow oven, or you may put the cups into a panful of cold water ; put the pan on the fire, and cover it; take- care the water is not lo 'ugh as t-. boil into the cups. When you lee them failened> they are enough.146 Cookery and Pastry. To make clear Lemon Cream. Pare four large lemons very thin ; lay the parings into half a mutchkin of water ; fqueeze the juice of the 161110118 into it, and let it hand one night; ftrain it off, and boil it up with a pound of double refined fugar and a gill of rofe- water ; fcum it very well, and take the whites of nine eggs. You muft not whip them too much, elfe they will frothe ; ftrain the whites through a fearce, and mix them with the liquor by degrees, for fear of curdling ; put it on a very clear fire, ftirring it one way ; let it be fcaiding hot, and put it into glaffes. There is no difference between this and the yellow lemon cream ; only beat in two of the yolks alongft with the whites, and put it into a china diffn To make an Orange Cream. Pare the rhind off three bitter oran- ges ; lay it in half a mutchkin of wa- ter ; let it lye until it has a fine flavour of the rhind \ fqueeze the juice of the- oranges*47 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. To oranges into it; drain it off, and boil it up with half a pound of double re- fined fugar ; call the yolks of fix -eggs with the fugar, and mix in the liquor by degrees ; fet it on the fire, and flir it one way until it is fcalding hot. You may put it into cups, glaffes, or a china affet. To make Ratafia Cream. Boll four laurel bay leaves in a cho- pin of cream ; beat the yolks of lix eggs ; keep out a little of the cream when cold, and mix it with the beat eggs ; then mix in die warm cream a- mongft the eggs by degrees ; put it on. the fire, and keep it ftirring one way ; let it be fcalding hot, but not boiling : take out the leaves, and fweeten it to your tafte. If you have not laurel bay leaves, blanch and beat a few bitter almonds: wet them with a little cream as you beat them, to keep them from oiling ; mix the cold cream with the al- monds ; thruft them through a fearce, and mix diem in with the eggs.148 Cookery and Pastry^ To make Sweet Almond Cream. ifoil a chopin of cream-with cinna- mon and lemon peel ; blanch and beat half a pound of fweet almonds ; wet them with a little rofe water as you beat them;, beat the whites.- of eight eggs very well ; mix them with the al- monds, and thrufl them through a fearce ; mix in the boil’d cream gra- dually amongft them, and put them on the fire,, ftirring it one way; make it fealding hot,.but don’t let.it boil; fweeN en it to your tafte, taking out the flick of cinnamon and the lemon peel. You may put thefe two creams , either into cups or china diihes. To malie Clouted Cream. Take four pints of new milk ; fet it on a clear fire, and ftir it now and’, then : whenever it comes a boil take it off, and put it into broad dilhes to.cool y * ftir it about in the difkes for fome time after it is turned out of the pan ; fet it in a cool, place, and let it Hand twenty- four-'Cli. IVr Pies, Pasties, &c. 349 four hours ; then fenm off the clouts with a fkimmer, and lay it on the diill; put fvveet cream about it, and fir ov cinnamon and fugar over it. St an. h cream is made of the brats thus : Take the brats, and beat them well in a bowl with a Ipoon, with fome fine fugar and a little role-water; it mult be beat un- til it is very thick. You may diih it, with fome fweat cream about it. If y ou have plenty of brats, you may lay a row of them and a row of the Spanish cream time about. To make Velvet Cream. Take a little fyrup, of either lemons or oranges, or any kind of fyrup you have ; put two or three fpooufuls of it in the bottom ol a diih ; warm fome new milk lukewarm ; pour the milk on Nthe fyrup, and put in as much run- net as will fallen it, and cover it up with a plate. To make Steeple Cream. Take a chopin of fweet cream anct tworjo Cookery and Pastry. two pints of new milk ; fet it on the fnc to come a-boil, and ftir it to keep it from bratting; turn it into dilhes to cool; then fcum. off the top, and put h on to boil again, and io continue to boil, cool, and fcum, until you have a good quantity of the cream. Juft whan you are going to whifk it, put in half a mutchkin of Liibon or Zerry, the juice of a lemon, and as much fine fir- gar beat and fitted as will fweeten it to your tafte ; whiik it up until it is very thick ; raife it up as high as you can in the aifet, in the lhape of a liigar- loaf. To make Bandjlring Curd. Earn fome new milk ; prefs the whey very well out of it; put it into a fquirt that has fmall holes in it, and fquirt it into the aflet ; it looks juft like band- firings ; put fine fiigar and fweet cream over it. RuJJj Curd. Walh fome green rulhes very clean; cutCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. *5* cut them about a quarter long, and lay them round ways on the back of a hair fearce ; earn about nve chopins of new milk ; take up the curd in dices with a ddmming-difh, and lay it on the rulhes to drain the whey from it, and, as the whey is drain’d, lay on more, of the curds, until it is all on ; let it Hand for an hour or two, and by that time the whey will be well drain’d from it; lay the diih you intend to ferve it up in on the top of the curd, and turn the fearce upfide down, and take the rufhes off the curd. It is eat with f.igar anil cream ; but fend the cream in a bowl to the table. Tender Curd. Earn the milk and prefs the whey well from it; beat it very well in a mortar with a little fine fugar, then prefs it hard into tea-cups, or into any fhape you pleafe ; when it is well faflen- ed in the fliapes, turn it out on an a£- fet, and pour fweet cream over it. All thefe curds mult be made of milk new-Cookery and Past-rf. ly taken from the cow, elfe they will not eat well. You may garni ill all milk dishes •with any kind of tweet-meats yon have. To make Fairy Butter.- Take the yolks of three hard eggs, four ounces of loaf-fugar, fix ounces of frelh butter, as new from the churn as you can, and two fpocnfuls of orange flower or rofe-water ; beat them all very well until they are like pafte ; then put it into a Iquirt, and' fopin t it on. an affet in little heaps. • Syllabubs. Take half a mutchkin of fweet creamr. half a mutchkin of white wine, and the' juice of a lemon ; fweeten it to your tafle with fine fugar ; put in a bit of the paring of a lemon, and a piece o-f cinnamon, if you ehoofe ; whifk it very well, and as it riles take it up with a fpoon, and lay it on the back of a fearce to drain the whey from it ; then fill the giaifcs half full of wine, and fweeten tCh. IV. Pies, Pa s t i e s , &c. *53 It; then fill up the glades with the whilked cream,; lay .as much on the glades as will hand on it. Another kind of Syllabubs. Take a chopin of thick cream • put in it three gills of white wine, the juice of a lemon, the juice of two bitter o- ranges, and fugar ; beat them very well till you fee it thick ; then fcum it with a fpoon, and fill up the glaffes. You put in a piece of cinnamon and lemon- peel as in the former ; but be fure you take them out before you put it into the glaffes. Bra mange. Break down half an ounce of ifin- glafs ; put it on with a gill of water ; put it on and off the fire until it is <.if- folved ; add to it a chopin of very fw t cream that will bear boiling ; for if it break, it is fpoiled ; put m a piece of the rhind of a lemon and a Hick of cinnamon ; let all b nil together for f me time. If you like it with the rata a taite,154 Cookery and Pastry. tade, blanch and beat a very few bitter almonds, and boil along with it; iwceten it to your tafte, and drain it through a fearce ; be Pure to dir it on the fire, o- therwife it will brat after it is drained. You mud dir it until it i* quite cold be- fore you put it into any drape, or elfe the cream will dy to the top and the idnglafs to the bottom. When it is thoroughly fadened, put the diape into hot water to loofe the blanmange from it, and turn it out on an aflet as quick as you can. Turn out every other jelly in die fame way. Gc of cherry Cream. Boil fame goofeberries until they are fo foft that a fpoon can thurd them through the back of a fearce ; take the pulp that comes through the fearce ; fe- parate it from the feeds, and fweeten it to your tade ; mix it up with thick fweet cream, and put it on an abet. You may make apple cream in the fame way.*5S Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. T0 make Strawberry, Rajberry, cr Currant Cream. If the fruit is new pulled, take equal weight of l’ugar and fruit; clarify the fugar, and put in the fruit: let them, boil until the fugar has penetrated into the heart of the fruit; arid when cold, take two or three fpoonfuls of i ; whiik it up with a mutchkin of thick cream ; then take the wholeil of the berries, and mix in two or three fpoonfuls more amongfl the w hi ik’d cream. You may either put it into an a(ht or glaflcs. If you have any of thole fvuits preferved, you may do them in the fame way. jto make Rice Cream. Take three fpoonfuls of the flour of rice, and put it on with a mutchkin of fweet cream, and flir it until it ccmes a-boil ; then let it cool; call the yolks of three eggs with fugar, and mix a lit- tle cold milk or cream with them; then mix it with the rice, and keep it birring one way ; but take care it does not boil. You156 Cookery and Pastry. You may flavour it either with orange- flower water or rofe-water. If you have none of thefe, boil a piece of cinnamon along with the rice j diih it, and lend it cold to the table. A ri:h Eating-pojfet. Take a chopin of fweet cream, half a pound of common bifeuit beat and fearced ; blanch fix ounces of fweet al- monds ; beat them up with a little fweet milk to keep them from oiling; mix the cream, almonds, and biicuit together .; put them into a pan, and let them boil a while .; take a mutclikin of white wine, and call nine eggs, keeping out fix of the whites, and add them to the wine, and fweeten it to your tafte feafon it with beat cinnamon ; put the wine and eggs on the fire, and let them come a- boil; then put them into a bowl; pour the cream on the wine, and fiir it abopt; put fugar and cin: am on on the top. It looks very pretty ftuck with diced al- monds on the top ; it goes to the table in€h. IV. Tils, Pasties, &c. iif in a bowl; it is a proper middle dil&K for fupper. A common Eating-poJJet. Take a bottle of good ale and a mutcli- kin of wine ; put it in, and warm it with a little beat cinnamon ; fweeten it; toad fome thin dices of bread ; cut it in dices, and put it amongd the wine ; boil three mutchkins of new milk, and pour it boiling hot on the bread and wine ; dir it ail about with a fpoon, and cover it up ; fend it hot to the table, either in a bowl or a foup difti. It is a very good fupper-difh. To make Hartjhorn Jelly. Put on two pints of water in a dole goblet with a pound of hartfliorn ; let it boil on a flow fire until half of the wa- ter is waded; you put in half an ounce of ifmglafs alongd with the hartfliorn ; lift a little of it in a fpoon, and let it cool, that you may fee the AiAhefs of it. If it is diff enough, drain it off; if not, let it boil a little longer. With re- H gard158 Cookery and Pastry. gard to feafoning, I can -give no rule, but to fweeten it; put in wine and the juice of lemons to your tade, a little of the rhind of lemon, a good piece of cin- namon broke in bits ; calf the whites of four or fix eggs, according to the quan- tity ; break fome of the egg-ihells a-, mongd die whites ; mix all together ; put it on the fire, and keep it fiirring and (kinking, not to let the eggs turn to a hat; let at boil until the drength is out of the cinnamon ; then turn it into the jelly-bag ; have two bowls ready to receive it; turn it backwards and for- wards into the bag, until you fee it clear, fit for glades. 1 Calves-fcet Jelly. Put four calves feet into a pot with 'water ; feald them, and take the hair very dean off them; (lit them, and lay them into warm water ; let them blanch two hours ; fet them on in a very clofe pan with two pints of water on a (low fire ; let them boil to rags ; then drain them off, and feum all the fat ofl the dock. WhenCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. 159 % When it is quite cold, cut off ail the Pe- diment from the bottom. It is feafon- ed every way as the hartlhorn jelly is. If you are careful of turning it often into the bag, it will be as clear as the hartf- liorn jelly. If the ftock is very {tiff, put in fome water in it; it is not pretty to be ffiff in glaffes ; but if it is for a fhape, it muft be a great deal ftiffer, or elfe it will not Hand when you turn it out. Jelly for a Confumption. Take a pound of hartlhorn (havings, nine ounces of eringo root, three ounces of ifmglafs, a chopin of bruifed fnails, the Ihells taken off and clean’d ; take two vipers, or four ounces of the powder ol them ; put all thele ingredients in two Scotch pints of water, and let them boil into one pint; (train it. through a fearce ; when it is cold, put it into a pan with a mutchkin of Rhenilh wine, half a pound of brown fugar- candy, the juice of two Seville oranges, and the whites of three or four eggs well beat; H 2 boil160 Cookery and Pastry. "boil them altogether for three or four minutes ; then run it through a jelly- bag, and put it into fmall pots. The patient may take two tea-cupfuls of it jn a day, A Hen s Neji. Make a ftrong j^lly of calves feet or jhartfhorn ; take a bowl, the mouth of •which will go within the affet you in- tend to difh it on ; fill about a third part of the bowl with the jelly when it is cold and firm ; lay in the eggs ; melt down the reft of the jelly, and let it be quite cold, but not fattened, and pour it on the eggs ; take the thin pairings of lemons, and boil them a little in water; cut them like ftraws, and ftrew them on the top of the jelly before it is quite firm. You make the eggs of blan- xnange. jelly in Cream. Fill fmall cups full of the jelly ;when it is firm, turn the cups out upon a china affet, and put feme thick i vvect. cream161 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. cream round the jelly in the bottom of the aifet. This way of making up jelly looks very well, efpecially when it is on a pretty diih, as the painting is very beautiful through the jelly. To dijh up cold Chicken in Jelly. Lay the jelly in the bottom of a bowl as you do in the hen’s neft; take a cold roafted chicken or two, * the bowl will hold them ; turn their breads down to the bottom of the bowl, and drop the yolks of fome hard eggs in amongfl the jelly round the chickens; then fill up the bowl with the jelly ; let it Hand until it is firm ; then turn it out. , It muft not be feafonetl as the other jellies are. Boil in the dock a little white pepper, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, and the fqueeze of a lemon, and a very little fait; clarify it as the former jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag in the fame manner. You may rariiifh with any thing that is green. Hi J * *•162 CooxerV and Pastry; A Floating If!and. Roaft fome apples ; toafl off the fkins, and take ont the pulp, and caff it very well with a knife with the white of an egg and fugar, until it is very light and white; take half a pound of currant jelly and four whites of eggs ; wliifk it up with the whifk all one way, till it is fo thick, that when you drop it from the fpoon.it will hand; it takes a long time whifking until it is of a proper ftiffnefs; put fome fiveet cream in the bottom of a dilh ; cover the cream with the roaftecl apples, and drop on the jelly in what figure you pleafe ; raife the apples and jelly as high in the middle as you can. Y ou may do it without apples ; but it takes a great deal more jelly to cover the cream; A Frife. Take fome white wine and fugar; dip fome fugar-bi.fcuit in it; lay the bifcuit in the bottom of a difh, and fciing it by degrees to be high in the middle ;Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. i63 middle ; when the bifcuit is a little foftened with the wine, pour Pome thick fweet cream over it ; let it Hand until the bread has fuck’d up the wine and the cre'am : if there is any of the liquor left, pour it off. If you have apples, roalt fonre of them, and order them in the fame way as in the lad receipt; lay a covering of apples on the bifcuit ; then cover it all over with whipt cream, and drop fome currant-jelly on it. In cafe you have not fweet cream, put on fome fweet milk with a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel ; let it boil; take the yolks of four eggs to a mutchkin of milk ; call them until they are very iinooth, and mix them up with a little cold milk ; then mix the boiling milk by degrees among!! the eggs, and turn it backwards and forwards tfntil it is very fmooth ; then put it on the fire a little; keep it ftirring, but don’t let it boil. This lupplics the place of real cream when you have none ; fweeten it to your taite. H 5 Ailj(>4 Cookery and Pastry. An Egg Cheefe Take three mutchkins of fweet cream not too thick ; put it on with a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, fugar, and half a. mutchkm of white wine j caft a dozen of eggs; keep out fix of the whites ; mix the eggs very well with the cold milk; put it on the fire, and keep it flirring all the time until it comes a- boil. When you fee it is broke, turn it into any fhape you have with holes, to let it fiand until the whey runs front it, and turn it out of the fhape. You may flavour it either with orange- flower or rofe-water before you put it into the fhape. If you choofe, you may pour fvveet cream over it when you dilh it, or it may be eat with wine and fugar. To make a Cheefe Loaf. Take three chopins of new milk j put in as much runnet as will make it cur- dle ; prefs the whey gently from the curd $ break the qurd, and take equal quantity-Ch. IV. Pies, Pastiest, &cc. 165 quantity of grated bread and curd j beat the yolks of a dozen of eggs and fix of the whites; feafon with beat cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar; mix in half a mutchkin of fweet cream and a glafs cf brandy j mix the bread and curd all together, and put a very little fait in it; work it all up to a pafte, and dull in two or three fpoonfuls of ilour as you work it up; take out a piece of it, and roll ic out thin to fry; then make the reft up in the fhape of a loaf, and lire it in the oven; cut the fried pafte in little bits to put round the loaf; cut a hole in the top of the loaf, and pour in fome beat- butter, cream, and fugar; fend it hot to the table. To make fine Pan-takes. Tor every two eggs take a fpoonfu! of flour ; beat the flour and eggs until tney are quite fmooth ; fweeten it; put in beat cinnamon, a very little flit, ancl a dram ; for every fix eggs mix in a mutchkin of fweet cream ; oil fix ounces of irelh butter j mix it in with the bat-i66 Cookery and Pastry. To ter; pat butter in the frying-pan at firft; let the pan be very hot, and put in'a tea-cupful of the batter at a time in the pah, and turn the pan round to make it of an equal thicknefs. If you think it too thin, put a little more bat- ter in the pan ; when it is fired on that fide, you muft hold the other fide be- fore the fire ; for thefc light pan-cakes will not turn ; double it in the pan ; then fold it again ; lift it with a knife, and lay it on a warm plate before the fire to keep it hot ; be fure that the pah is quite hot every cake you put in ; ftir always the batter before you- put it into the pan. To make a very good baked Pudding with the fame Patter.' Butter a pudding-pan ; put in the batter, and fire it in an oven ; it will rife very light in the oven. When you fee the butter all fuck’d up, and the pudding begins to grow brown, it is enough.Gh. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 16/ H .6 them. To turn the fame Batter into a different ■ jornu Butter fome tea-cups, and dll them more than half full; fire them in the oven; when enough, turn them out of die cups on a plate. Send beat-butter, wine, and fugar, to eat with thele pud- dings. To make Tan-puddings. Beat fpur or five egg9 with four -fpoonfuls of flour; call it until the flour is free of knots ; put in a little fait and fugar to your taile, beat cinna- mon and nutmeg, near a mutchkin of Ivveet milk, a dram, a handful of cur- rants, and as much fweet fiiet ihred frnall; mix all well together; put a piece of butter in the frying-pan, 01 beef-dripings : when it boils, lay as many petty-pans in the frying-pan as it will hold, with their bottoms upmoft; put in the pudding-fluff at the bottom of the petty-pans. You mull fry them on a flow fire, otherwife you will.burni68 Cookery and Pastry* them, and they will be raw in the heart; When the petty-pans come eafily off, they are ready for turning to the other fide. They eat well, and are a very pretty diih. To make Apple Fritters. Beat four or five eggs; mix in asr much flour as they will call with till they are very finooth; put in a little fait, fugar, and fome beat ginger; you may put in cinnamon, if you clioole; mix in about a gill of fweet cream or new milk ; two or three fpoonfuls of fweet yeft ; call them all well together ; put down the batter at a difiance before the fire to make it rife. If you have not yeft, you muft give it a good dram. Pare the apples, and cut them in thin fiices ; take out the cores, but keep the dices whole ; have a good deal of beef- drippings boiling in the pan ; then put in every dice of the apples by itfelf a- mongft the batter, and drop them into the pan one by one until it is full; fry ■them a light brown; take them careful-165 Cll. IV. Pi£3, PASTfES, &c* ly from the fat, and keep them warm before the fire till they are all tried o£Fj then dilh them neatly one above ano- ther; raife them pretty high in the mid- dle, and drew fugar over them. Send them hot to the table. I’o make Cirrant Fritters* Make the batter in the fame way a.? in the former; put in a quarter of a pound of currants well walh’d and dried. If you have any beef-fuet, Hired a little of it fmall, and put amongft it; mix ail well together, and drop them from a fpoon into the frying-pan into what fize you pleafe. Dilh them in the fame way as the above. To make Or/Ier Fritters. Make the batter in the fame way as in the above receipts; only keep out the fugar and cinnamon; pickle the oyfters ; take as many of them as yon want, and lay them between the folds of a cloth, and dry them; then dip every o) fter in the batter, and fry them intjo Cookery and Pastry. in the fame wav as the other fritters * <lift them hot/but put no W of them. To make Potato? Fritters:. Eoil and beat halt a dozen of pota- toes \ mix them with four beat eggs, about a gill of good thick cream, fome fugar and nutmeg, a little fait, a bit of freih butter oiled, and a dram; beat them all well together, and drop them in the boiling drippings ; fry them a light brown ; difh them hot; and drew fugar over them. k \ % k You may put any preferved fruit in the heart of fritters, iucli as, preferved cherries or goofebexries, or the half of an appriCotj be fure to have a great deal of fat to fry all fritters in, elfe they will not be good. Some choofe their apples cliopt linall, and mixed in the batter in •place of flices. To make a Tanfy Cake. Beat fix eggs with four or five fpoon- fuls 'Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &e. 171 / 'fills of flour ; mix with them a mutch- kin of fweet cream or new milk; fweet- en it to your tafte; feafon it with fome nutmeg and a little fait; put in as much of the juice of tanfy as bitter it to your tafte, and make it green with the juice of fpinage; mix fome oiled butter in it, and caft them all well together ; yoti may fire it in a frying-pan on the top of the fire, but take care not to burn it. You may fire it below meat that is roaft- ing, or in an oven; but be lure to but- ter the plate very well that it goes in. In cafe it is fired below meat, pour off all the fat from it before you fend it to the table; drew fugar over it. I’hc Poor Knights of Wlndfor. Cut fome flice9 of bread about half an inch thick; lay them to foak a while in white wine and fugar; call two or three yolks of eggs ; take the bread out of the wine, and dip it’amongfl the eggs ; have fome frefh butter boiling in the frying-pan; put in the bread, and fry them a line brown; then chib them, and*73 Cookery and PasYry» To and ftrew lugar and beat cinnamon oveY* them: you may eat them with wine if you choofe. ‘To make fmall Curd Puddings. Earn two pints of new milk; lay it* on the back of a fearcc until all the whey is run from it; beat it very well in a mortar with eight ounces of frefh blitter, till they are all well mixed toge- ther ; call fix eggs, and keep out three of the whites ; beat two ounces of bifi- cuit] mix the eggs and bifeuit well with the curd; feafon it with fugar and beat cinnamon to your tafte, and the grate of a lemon j butter fome tea-cups, and let one of them be larger than the reft for the middle ; put the fluff into the tea-cups, and fire them in a flow oven ; when they are enough, turn them out on the diih, the large one in the middle, and the fmall ones round it; cut fome blanched almonds in fmall flrips, and flick them in the tops of the puddings ; pour beat-butter, wine, and fugar, over them.€h. IV. Fies, Pasties, &c. 3 73' T■) make a Curd Florentine. Take two pounds of curds, and break them very well with your hands; blanch and beat a pound of almonds, with a little rofe or orange-flower water ; pick and walh half a pound of currants; boil fome fpinage ; cut it final 1 with a knife, and fweeten it to your tafte ; oil eight ounces of frefh butter ; mix all well to- gether ; make a fine pufhd pafle; lay a thin covering over all the difh ; then put in the fluff; cover it on the top with a thin pafle neatly cut out or barred over ; put it in a. flow oven to bake : when the pafle is enough, the florentine- is ready. To Jlew Parfnips. Boil them tender, and ferape them clean ; cut them in dices ; take as much fiveet cream as be fauce, and thicken it with butter wrought in flour : when the cream and. butter is warm enough, put in. die parfnips, and keep it toiling on the174 Cookery and Pastry. the fire: when the cream boils they are enough ; drew a little fait on them. Boil fame bitroot, and fcrape off the fkins ; flice it down in thin flices ; beat fome freih butter ; put a little vinegar in it; throw in the bitroot: tofs them until they are warm, and cliih them, » To Jlcw Red Cabbage. Cut it down as for pickling ; put it in a ftew-pan with fome red wine and a piece of butter knead in flour ; feafon it with a little flit and fpices ; keep it flirting until the butter is melted ; then cover the pan, and let them flew a little, but not; too foft; for they are better to eat a little crifp ; put in a little vinegar before you take them off; difh them, and fend them up hot. To Jlciv Cucumbers. Pare fome large cucumbers, and flice them about the thicknefs of half a crown; fpread them on a clean coarfe cloth to drain the water from them ; pare and flice fome large onions round- ways jCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &e. 175 ways ; flour the cucumbers, and fry them and the onions in browned butter ; when you fee them brown,.take them |up carefully from that butter ; take a 'clean pan, and put three or four fpoon- fuls of warm water in it; put in a quar- ter of a pound of frefli butter rolled in flour ; ftir it on the fire until it is melt- ed ; mix in a tea-fpoonful of the flour of muftard ; put in the cucumbers, and feafon it with fait and fpices ; coyer up the pan, and let them flew about a quar- ter of an hour, foftly Ihaking the pan, and fo difli them. To drefs Parfnips to eat like Skirrcts. Boil fome large parfnips tender, and fcrape off the Ikins ; cut them by the length, and cut every piece round, a- bout the fize of a Ikirret, and fry them in butter a fine light brown ; take them out of the butter, and lay them neatly i na difli ; flrew beat cinnamon and lu- gar over them before you fend them to die table. Celery.tj6 Cookery and Pastry. Celery with Cream. Wafh and clean the celery; cut it in pieces about two or three inches long ; boil them in water until they are ten-4 der ; put them through a drainer, and keep' them warm; take about half a mutchkin of fweet cream ; roll a bit of frefh butter about the bulk of a nutmeg in flour ; keep it flirting on the Are un- til it comes a-boil ; have the yolks of four eggs ready call; mix them with a little cold cream ; then mix in the boil- ing cream by degrees amongft die eggs, and put it on the fire again ; keep it dole fbirring, but don’t let it boil : throw in the celery, and give it a tofs up ; fea- f'on it with fait and nutmeg to your taile, and difii it. jfo'few Celery in Gravy. Boil and order the celery as in the jh- bove receipt; brown a piece of butter, and thicken it with flour ; mix in as much good gravy amongft it as will ppvey the celery, and a little red wine.'77 Ch. IV, Pi is, Pastiis, &c. and fait and fpices to your tafte; when the fauce comes a-boil, throw in the celery, and let it flew a little, and then cliih it. STt? have a Di/Jo of Kidney Beam in the Whiter. Gather the kidney-beans while they are young; drew a good deal of fait in the bottom of a can ; then lay in fome of the beans, and drew in fome more dry fait, and fo continue until the can is full: between every row of beans lay a row of fait; as you lay them in, prefs them pretty hard with your hand, but not fo as to bruife them : when the pot is full, tie them clofe up with a bladder and a piece of leather above it: when you are going to ufe them in the win- ter, take up what quantity you want, and lay them in frefh water, fome hours before you boil them; change the wa- ter two or three times to draw the fait out of them ; cut them about an inch long ; let the water be boiling before you put them in: when they are enough, drain178 Cookery and Pastry. drain the water from them, and tofs them up with fome beat butter. When you put in the beans, throw in a tea- fpoonful of pearl-afhes ; it makes them boil both green and tender : it makes j young peafe of a fine green, or any kind of greens, and does hurt to nothing. All thefe garden things are very proper for fupper difhes. ¥0 keep Artichoke Bottoms the whole Tear. Cut the flalks very ciofe to the arti- chokes : boil them no longer than the leaves will come out of them ; then take the choke clean from them, and the (Irings from the outfide of the bottoms, and lay them on tin-plates when the •oven is near cold; let them (land a day or two in it: they won’t be dry enough with this; but you may fet them at a diftance from the fire, or in the fun to dry. When the oven is hot at any o- ther time, you may put them in again, and fo continue drying them with either fire, oven, or the lim, until they are as dryCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. l79 dry as a board : then put them in paper bags, and hang them up in a dry place; when you are going to ufe them, lay them in warm water, and let them he about four hours, changing the water often ; you muft pour the lad water boiling hot on them ; cut them in dices after they are foak’d, and boil them ten- der. If you have plenty of them, they make a very fine difli, and they are very good in either fricafee or ragoo lances, or any fine foups. The bejl way of keeping green Coofeberries for Tarts. Gather them before they are come to their full fize; cut off the tops and tails with feiffars ; take wide-mouth’d bot- tles ; be fure they are very clean and dry ; fill them up with the berries, and cork them; put them into an oven not fo hot as to break the bottles ; let them {land until they turn white, and pretty well fallen: when they are enough, take them out of the oven ; take out the corks, and tie a mullin rag on the top1S0 Cookery and Pastry. of the bottles ; then turn the bottles in- to deep jugs that will hold them ; let them Hand that way until the whole juice is run from them, (it is the juice that fpoils them). When they are very well drained from their juice, turnback the bottles ; take one of the bottles and fill up the reft with : leave as much room as to cover them with iheep’s tallow; melt it, and let it be as cold as it will pour on the berries : let them be about an inch covered with the tallow : then cork them hard up : dip the corks and the rings of the bottles amongft melted bees wax, and tie leather above them. You may fend them to the Indies, if you pleafe. cTo make rwhite Cufiards. Take a mutchkin of new milk ; put it on the fire ; when it comes a-boil, ftir in as much ground rice as will make it like thick pottage; have ready the whites of three eggs ; call and mix them with the milk and rice off the fire ; put it on the fire again for a little, ftirring itCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. iSi it all the time ; but take care that it does not boil; fweeten it to your tafte with fine fugar; wet fome tea-cups witli water, and fill them with the cuftards : when they are cold they will turn out on the difh. Call: the yolks ; mix them with fome boiling milk ; feafbn it with cinnamon, fugar, and a little wine; when cold pour it on the cuftards. To make German Take five eggs ; keep out one of the yolks; take five fpoonfuls of flour ; beat them well together with fugar to your tafte, the ferape of a nutmeg, and a very little beat ginger ; mix in a mutchkin of lweet cream and two ounces of oifd butter ; caft them all together ; butter the pans, and put them in a quick oven to fire. The pan muft be only half full. To make Apple Pt/Jfs. Stove the apples, and math them very well ; fweeten them to your tafte ; mix in a little marmalade or cinnamon with I them;iS2 Cookery and Pastry. 1 oi them ; make puff’d pafle ; lay a faucer of a midling iize on the pafle, and cut quite round by it; let the apples be quite cold; lay a fpoonful of them in the middle of the pafle; then double the pafle together; wet it a little in the infide to make it flick together; mark it neatly with a knife, or plait it with your fingers round the edges. You may fire them in the oven, or fry them in a frying-pan: they are bell done in the oven. You may make pufFs of any piefcrv ed fruit or green goofeberries llov’d and malh’d like the apples ; you may make puffs of any good thing you pleafe, luch as an almond pudding: it you have any left over filling your diih, make one quite round, or in the fli ape of a flar, for the middle, and lay the femicircles round it. If they are rightly made up, they are a very pretty dift. To make Short Bread. Take a peck of flour, and four poundsCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, <5zc. i I 2 and of butter Englifh, or three pounds Scots weight ; put the butter on to come a- boil; make a hole in the flour, and pour the boiling butter in it; work the flour and butter a little while together ; pour in a mutchkin of good yell amongft the pade ; work it together, but not too much ; divide the pafte, and roll it out oval ; then cut it through the middle, and plait it at the ends; keep out a little of the flour to work out the bread; flour gray paper, and fire the bread on it: if you make it fweet, allow a pound of fu- gar to the peck of flour at lead; if you want it very rich, put in citron, orange- peel, and almonds, and drew white carvy on the top ; be fure to mix the fugar and fruit with the flour before you wet it; remember to prick it well <^n the top. To make a rich Bun. To half a peck of flour done and cut two pounds of raifins, clean two pounds of currants, take fix ounces of orange-peel, the fame weight of citron,184 Cookery and Pastry. , and as many almonds blanch’d and cut; mix all thele together ; take a drachm of cloves, a large nutmeg, half an oimce of Jamaica pepper, and half an ounce of ginger; beat them all well to- gether ; ftrew them on the fruit, and mix them very well; make a hole in the flour ; break in a pound of butter Scots Weight in it ; pour warm water on the butter to foften it a little ; then work the flour and it together; fpread the pafte, and pour on half a mutch kin of good yeA, and work it up very well, until the pafte is very light andfmooth; cut off about the third part of the pafte for the iheet; fpread out the reft of the nafte on the table ; put the fruit on it; pour about a gill of yeft over the fruit, and work the fruit and pafte very well together, and make it up round ; roll out the iheet round; lay the bun on the middle, and gather the iheet round it; roll it out to the thicknefs you would have it; run a fork through it in difre- rent parts down to the bottom, and pi jck it on the top ; flour double gray paperCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, See. 1S5 I 2 and and lay the bun on it, and give it a cut round the fide ; put a binder of double paper round it to keep it from running too thin in the oven. The oven mult neither be too hot nor too cold. 7*0 make a Fourtbpart Plumb-cake. Clean and pick two pounds and a half of currants, three quarters of a pound of citron, as much .orange-peel, half a pound of almonds; blanch and cut them, all into pieces, not too fmall; take a fourthpart of flour, and break an Eng- lifh pound of frelh butter in it, the fame way As you do the paile for the bun ; give it half a mutchkin of good yell; the palle muff be very light and linooth wrought; cut olF a piece for the iheet; take half an ounce of ginger, half an ounce of coman der feed, a few cloves, and about a quarter of an ounce of Ja- maica pepper ; all thefe mull be finely beat, and about a quarter of an ounce of caraway feeds; mix all thefe together, and feafon the fruit with them, and pour a dram over che fruit. The fruit*86 Cookery and Pastry. and pade is wrought entirely in the fame way as in the bun, and made up in the lame manner. To make a Seed-cake. Dry a pound of flour before the fire, or in the oven; beat and fearce a pound of fugar; weigh a pound of eggs; whifk the eggs and fugar together until it is very thick and white; have half a pound of frefh butter ready; call it to a cream with your hand ; when the eggs and fugar are cafl,leafon them with beat gin- ger, cinnamon, and a few caraway feeds; put in the butter, and call it with a timber fpatala ; have ready cut half a pound of citron, and as much orange- peel, and fix ounces of almonds blanch’d; cut the orange-peel in narrow drips a- bout an inch long ; cut the citron in broad pieces ; cut the almonds in two long ways; break the knots of the flour, and dir it in the fugar and eggs ; when it is well mixed, put in the fruit, and mix all well together, but do not cad it much after the flour goes in ; butter . - the,*87 Ch. IV. Pies, Pasties, &c. the frame or hoop, and fire it in the oven. You may ftrew white caraways on the top, if you choofe. A Diet-loaf. Take a pound of fugar beat and fift- ed : cafl a pound of eggs with it, until it is very thick and white ; then put in the fcafoning ; beat cinnamon, ginger, fome caraway feeds, and a pound of dried flour : fome chooie it with a little butter, as you have in the feed-cake ; but it is rather lighter without it; butter the frame, and Are it. You may ftrew ca- raway on the top of it, it' you choofe. A Currant-cake. Take a pound of frefh butter: cafl it with your hand to a cream ; call a pound oi eggs and a pound of fugar in the fame way as in the above receipt; when the butter, eggs, and fugar, are well caft, mix them all together, and give them a caft: then mix in a pound of dried flour; caft them all very well, until the flour is quite lmcoth; then mix in I 4 1 aiS8 Cqokjb’ry and Pastry. a pound of currants pick’d and clean’d, and fome caraway feeds; butter a frame and put it in the oven. l o make Jine Gingerbread. Take two pounds and a half of flour ; mix an ounce of beat ginger with it and half a pound of brown fugar ; cut three quarters of a pound of orange- peel and citron not too fmall; mix all thefe together; take a mutchkin and a nalt of good treacle, and melt it on the lire ; beat five eggs ; wet the flour with * the treacle and eggs ; weigh half a pound of frefn butter, Scots weight; melt it and pour it in amongft your other ma- terials ; cafl them all well together; but- tei a fiame, and put it in the oven. " This gingerbread won’t fire without frames, If it rifes in biifters when it is in the oven, run a fork through- it. It makes very fine plain bread without the fruit, with a few caraway feeds. All thefe cakes mu(l be fired in an oven nei- ther too hot nor too cold,. The way to know when the cakes are fired, enough,.Ch'. IV. thES, ^AStlES, &C. is to run a clean knife down the middle of them; if the knife comes out dry* they are enough ; if the leafl of it flicks to the knife* pdt it into the oven again. To -make common Wife Hit, Cad a pound of eggs with a pound of fa gar pounded and lifted; dry a pound of flour ; when the eggs and fugar are very thick and well call, llir in the pound of dried dour and ibme caraway feeds ; drop them on paper* and glaze them on the top with i’ugar. To make the fame Bifcuit proper for beating to put in fne Puddings, Keep out a little of the Hour and all the feeds ; and after they are fimd fit for eating, put them in a ccid oven to dry. To malic Savoy Bifcuit. Cafl fix eggs, and a pound of fugar pounded and lifted, until they are very thick and white; mix in three quarters of a pound of line flour; drop them oval190 Cookery and Pastry. oval on paper ; glaze them on the top with fugar, and fend them to the oven. To make Spunge Bifcuit. Cafl nine eggs until they frothe ; pound and lift a pound of fine fugar ; then beat it up with the eggs till it is quite fmooth ; mix in three quarters of a pound of flour and the grate of a le- mon or two ; have the bifcuit frames well buttered with freih butter; fill them a little more than half full, and put them in the oven. To make common Almond Bifcuit. Blanch a pound of fweet almonds ; beat them up by degrees with the white of an egg, until they fpread fmooth be- tween your finger and thumb ; have ready pounded and fitted two pounds of fine fugar ; pound and fift two hard bakes ; call the whites of thirteen eggs; * beat the almonds and eggs together un- til they are very light; mix in the fu- gar by degrees, ftill continuing beating; mix the bakes with half a pound of flour;Ch. IV. Pie$, Pasties, &c. 191 Hour; then mix all together; drop them oval on paper, and glaze them on the top with fugar, and put them in the oven. To make Ratafia Drops. Blanch and beat a pound of almonds, the one half bitter and the other fweet; beat them with the white of an egg as in the former receipt; have ready three more whites of eggs ; caft and mix them very well with the pounded almonds; then mix in by degrees a pound of fine fugar pounded and lifted; mix all well together; then drop them off the point of a knife on common white paper, a- bout the bignefs of a fmall coat-button ; put them into a cool oven, and fire them. To make Squirt, Fruit, and Shaving Blfcuit, Blanch and beat two pounds of fweet almonds, with two whites of eggs, till they are very finooth; pound and lift two pounds of fine fugar; have the whites of five eggs call; mix the eggs 16 andic)2 Cookery and Pastry. and almonds very well together in the mortar with the end of the peftle till they are quite white ; then put in the fugar by degrees, flirting them con- ilantly until they are thoroughly mixed ; then put the fluff into a clean pan, and let it on a How fire, keeping it flirting conflantly until it becomes white and thin. Before you fet it on the fire, have f ome white wafers ready ; whenever the fluff comes off the fire, take about the third part of it, and fpread it on the wa- fers ; make it very fmooth, and about the thicknefs of a common bifeuit; fcore it with a knife about an inch broad, and the length of the wafer;, but take care not to cut the wafer until after they are fired ■ then cut the wafer through with a pen- knife. After the lhaving bifeuit is dro.pt, , the pan muff be put on again until it be- comes thin ; then take the half of %what is left in the pan and put it in a bowl ; mix four ounces of orange-peel and ci- tron in it cut finall; drop them oval on the papers, and fquirt the remaining part through a mould. I ou may turn themCh. IV. Pies, Pasties, &C, 193 the them round, or into any fhape you pleafe. All bi limit, except ratafia drops, do belt to be dropt on gray paper. Thcfe fine bifcuits take very little firing. CHAP. V. PRESERVES, PICKLES, To every pound of fugar allow half a mutchkin of water, the white of an egg to every two pounds ; cafl the eggs very well, and put them amongfi the water break the fugar, and pour the water and the whites of the eggs upon it; let it Hand to foften a little before you put it on the fire; Itir it on the fire until the fugar is quite diifolved : when the fugar comes a-boil, and the fcum riles very well, pour in a little cold water, and let it boil a little longer ; it makes the fcum rife the better : take the pan off the fire, and let it fettle a little; then fcum it, and lay the fcum on a hair-fearce. Ail194 Cookery and Pastry. the fyrup will run from it, fo that you will lofe nothing but the drofs; put the fyrup again on the fire j pour a little water on it when it comes a-boil: this brings up a fecond fcum; let it boil a little : then fet off the pan again ; let it fettle a little, and take off the fcum, and then the fyrup is for ufe. To make Smooth Marmalade. Weigh the oranges ; take the fame weight of fugar as of oranges ; wipe all the oranges with a wet cloth, and grate them; cut the oranges long ways in quarters: ftrip off the fkins; fcrape all the pulp off the inner fkins with a knife, and pick all the feeds clean from them: then put on the fkins to boil, until they ,nre fo tender that they will beat to a * malh. When you take die fkins off die fire, fqueeze the water out of them, and fcrape all the firings out of them: cla- rity the fugar; then take the pounded fkins, and mix by degrees with the fy- rup with a fpoon, juft as if you weie breaking ftarch: when it is all well mix’d,Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles.^&c. 195 mix’d, put it into the pan, and let it boil until the lugar is incorporated with it; then put in the pulp ; let it boil un- til it is all of an equal thicknefs. You will know when it is enough, by its turning heavier in^ ftirring, and of a finer colour : whenever it begins to fpark it is enough ; pound the grate in a mortar ; take off the marmalade, and ftir in the grate carefully; when it is all in, put on the pan again, and let it boil until it is all thoroughly mixed. You may keep out fome of the grate* unlefs you choofe it very bitter. If yrou fave any of the grate, dry it, and keep it tor feafonings. To make Chip Marmalade. Weigh the oranges, and take equal weight of fugar; clean and grate die oranges, as in the former receipt; cut them crofs, and fqueeze them through a fearce ; boil the fkins tender, fo that the head of a pin will pierce them : when you take them off the fire, fqueeze the water out 01 them, and fcrape all the firings196 Cookery and Pastry. firings from them ; cut them into very thin chips^ and let them boil until they are tranfparent. As foon as the oranges are grated, pour feme boiling water cn them, and cover them up until you are ready to life -them : when the chips are quite train Srent, put in the juice, and drain the water through a fearce from the gratings in asnongit the marmalade, and let all boil together until the juice jellies, which you will know by letting a little of it cool in a faucet. It may be expected, that I might have given many more different receipts for making marmalade ; but I may venture to lay, that there is not many ways of making it; and I have tried, and found by experience, that thele two receipts are the bell. To preferve whole Ora?’ges. Lay the oranges into fait and water for two days ; take them out of that, and wafn them clean with freih water ; lay freih water on them, and let them ly a day in it, to take the fait out of them}Cli. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 197 them ; then grate or ridge them ; put them on in a dole copper-pot with plenty of water about them ; let them boil until they are lo tender that the head of a pin will eafily pierce them; take them out of the water while they are warm ; cut a round piecq out of the top, arid take out the pulp and the feeds with the (hank of a tea-fpoon; clarify as much fugar as will cover and boil the oranges ; be fure not to fcrimp them of fyrup, nor put them into too final 1 a pan. In this fyrup, you muff allow halt a gill more water to the pound of fugar than the common fyrup, otherwife the fugar would candy before it would penetrate into the orange, as they take a long time to boil ; keep them gently down amongft the fyrup as they are boiling ; let them boil about three quarters of an hour ; then take off the pan, and let them Hand until they are almofc cold ; put them on the fire again, and let them boil until they are or a fine colour, and quite tranfparent; put every orange into a lhiall pot; fill ' tiprf)S Cooii-EiiY and Pastry. ■up the orange with fyrup, and put on the tops ; put as much fyrup into each pot as will cover the orange. If you have not enough of fyrup left, you mull make more, as the oranges fpoil when they are not well covered with it. To 'Srefcrve Orangc-Jklns. Lay them in fait and water as you do the whole oranges ; grate them, and cut them through the middle ; lqueeze out the jnice, and pick out all the in- ner lidns ; boil them until they are fo tender that the head ot a pin will eafly pierce them; be fure you fcrape all tire firings from them ; cafe the fkins in one another, and put them into a pot that will hold them eafily ; clarify as much fa gar as will cover them, and pour the fyrup on the fkdns when it is quite cold. It muft be a wide-moutli’d pot that will let in a faucer ; put a little weight on the faucer to hold down the Ikins amongft the fyrup ; let them Hand for four or five days; by that time the fyrup will become as tiiin as water. You mud take itCh. V, Pies, Pasties, &c. 199 it off, and boil it up with more fugar, until the fyrup is of a proper thicknefs; let it cool, and pour it on the fkins a- gain ; let them ftand for eight or ten days, and the fyrup will be thin again, though not fo thin as before; take it off', and add more fugar to it; when it boils, feum it very clean ; put in the fkins a- mongft it, and let them boil until they are quite tranfparent ; then cafe them one within another, and lay them in the pot, and pour the fyrup over them ; be fare to have as much as will cover them, and lay them by for ufc. Three or four of the fkins turned down, with a dice of preferred oranges between each of them, make a very pretty affet. Freftrvcd faced Oranges. Grate the oranges ; cut them crofs in thin dices ; pick the feeds carefully out with a bodkin, but take care not to break the pulp ; lay them in a flat bot- tom’d jar, one dice above another ; cla- rify as much fugar as will cover them ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over200 Cookery and Pastry. over them; put a weight on them to keep them down amongft the fyrup; let them (land two or three days ; by that time the fyrup will be very thin ; then turn out the dices on a hair-fearce to drain all the liquor from them ; add as much fugar to the liquor as make it in- to a good fyrup.; be fure to fcum it al- ways when it boils ; put back the dices into the pot,.and when the fyrup is cold, pour it on them; let them hand eight or ten days. You mud repeat this a third time in the fame manner : it is a long time before the fyrup penetrates into the heart of the raw oranges ; let them {land for eight days longer ; then pour off the fyrup, and boil it up with fome more'fugar; take off the fcum; then put in the dices, and give them a hearty boil. When you put the dices in die pan, cover them with clean white paper. When the oranges have got two or three hearty boils, take them oft' the fire, and let them {land until they are almofl cold, and don’t take the paper off them ; then put the dices neatly up, andCh. V. Preserves, Pickles,- &c. 201 and pour the fyrup over them ; be Pure you have always fyrup to cover them. This is a very good and a very pretty preferve. To preferve Orange Grate. Boil the grated fkins tender ; pound them as for fmooth marmalade ; take one pound of fugar to a pound of the pounded fkins ; clarify the fugar ; and boil the fkins amongft the fyrup, juft as you do the fmooth marmalade ; when they are thoroughly boiled, flir in as much of the grate as will make them like thick pottage ; let it get a boil or two to mix it well; then pot it up for ufe. This is better for orange puddings, or any thing that is to be feafoiied with o~ ranges, than even frefli oranges or mar- malade. You ihould dry the orange- grate as you gather it; for although it is dry, it will make this conferve very well : likewife keep all the parings of your lemons ; pare them thin, and lay them by for ufe. When they are wo 11 dried202 Cookery and Pastry. dried, they -will ferve for feafoning any tiling tiiat lemon-peel fhould go into. Orange Chips. Take the thin pairings of oranges, and boil them in water until they are ten- der ; clarify as much fugar as will cover them, and pour it on them when cold. You may let them lie for two or three days ; then pour it off, and boil it up again : and when cold pour it over the fkins. Do this three or four times, un- til the chips are tranfparent; then take them out of the -fyrup, and cut them into pieces of what length you choofe ; fpread them on plates with the white Ikies upmoft, until the fyrup is dried from them ; then candy them as you do the orange-peel. To make Orange-peel. Lay the orange fkins in fait and wa- ter three or four days ; then put them on with cold water, and let them boil until they are tender; fcrape out all the pulp and firings ; make and clarify as much203 Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. and much good rich fyrup as will cover them ; cafe the fkins one within ano- ther, and put them into a done jar ; when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them, and let them hand until the fy- rup is thin about them ; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it; boil it up to a good fyrup, and when it is cold, pour it on the fkins again, and let it lie on them until the are quite transparent; take the fkins out of that fyrup; boil up fome fugar to a candy height; then put in the fkins, keeping them flirring from the pan until they begin to candy; take them up and fpread them on fieves until they are cold. To candy Angelica. Take the angelica in the month of May, while it is tender ; cut away the leaves ; cut the flalks in pieces about a quarter long ; lay them in cold water as you cut them ; fet them on the fire in a panful of water ; let them boil tender and green ; then take them out204 Cookery and Pastry. 40 and peel them ; and as they are peeled, throw them into a panful of warm wa- ter. For every pound of angelica take 4 a. pound and a quarter of double-refill d fugar ; take the half of the fugar, and make it into a llrong fyrup : lay the an- gelica in the fyrup for eight or ten days; then take it out of that fyrup, and put the other half of the fugar into the fy- rup ; clarifyy feum, and boil it candy height; tie up the angelica to what fhape you choofe; then put it into the fugar ; let it boil dry amongft the fugar, keep- ing the pan always fhakihg. When it is enough lay it on fieves to dry. To candy Flowers. Take any kind of flowers you think pretty ; if the ftalks are very long, cut off fome of them ; clarify and boil a -pound of fine fugar till near candy height ; when the fugar begins to grow ififf, and fomething cool, dip the flowers into it; take them out immediately, and lay them one by one on a fieve ; dry them in a ftove. * / * To i•Cli. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 295 Tj) make Rcd-currarit Jelly. Take the larged berries you can.get 9 llrip them off the (talks ; $lo not put in - green ones, nor the red hard berries that are at the end of the ftaiks, for they have neither juice nor calls. A fter the berries are ftript, and take* the fame weight off lift dy-ref ned lugar ; clarify the fugar, AdletR boil to candy- height, which you^Pfl know oy the fu- gar boiling thick like pottage ; take up dome of the lyrup with a fpoon, and if it hangs in froad flakes when you poi r it out, it is enough; then throw in die whole berries into the fy rup, and let them boil very fall for ten or eleven mi- nutes at the longefl; then lay a hair- dearce on a deep can ; pour it into the fearce, and all thereby will run throurl^^ flir the berries gently up with a ipooi; but take care you do not bruife arty of them, fort by f3jdc:-’g the whole will run through; there will be nothing left in the fearce but the Ikins and ieeds. Vv hile the jelly is running thro agh, caule & clear* Vcc6 Cookery and Pastry. clean tlie pan it was boiled in, and turn back the jelly into it: warm it on the fire, but take care it do not boil; fb pot it up. This manner of making jelly preferves more of the pure juice of the fruit than by draining them through a cloth, which fpoils the flavour and co- * lour ; and it &|§yier candies nor runs, which in the way of making it is apt to do.^^ White-currant Jelly. Bruife the berries with the back of a fpoon, and run the juice through a jelly bag. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of double-refined fugar ; clarify and boil-it to a candy-height; then put in the juice, and let it boil about ten minutes ; take off all the fcum that comes from the juice ; put it through a' fiearce, and then put it up m pots. Black-currant Jelly. To three pints of black currants take one pint of red; ftrip them from the (talk; put them with half a mutchkinCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 20/ of water into a can, and tie them clole up with fome folds of paper ; then'*put die can into a pot of water, and let it boil about twelve hours ; but take care none of the water goes into the can ; and as the water boils down, you may add fome more to'it; turn the berries into a fearce ; bruife.tnem with the back of a fpoon on the iide of it; then gather all the bruifed berries rogethcr, and put them into a clean bowl ; pour on a mutchkin of water ; bruife them well with a fpoon ; turn them into a fearce, and let them (land all night; let the water that runs through be put amongft the juice; by fo doing, .you get the whole Urength of the beTrieslfc. This is much better than draining through a cloth, which both lpoils the talfe and colour of the fruit. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar ; clarify and boil it to candy-height; then put in the juice ; let it boil a quarter of ail hour, taking off the feum as it riles, and th<m pot it up.2oS Cookery and Pastry. To prefcrve whole Currants. Pick all the berries off the ftalks, or rclip them off with a pair of fciifars, •which is neater; likewife the black tops -of the berries ; but take care you do not break the berries ; take equal weight of lingle-refined fugar and currants ; keep out a little'of the fugar, which pound and fearce, and clarify the reft, and boil: it candy-height; take the half of the ber- ries, and throw them into the fyrup; let them boil eight minutes, as you do the jelly ; run them through the feai ce m the fame way. When it is all through the fearce, put it into the pan.; and •whenever1 it comes to boil, put m the •whole berries, after ftrewing them over •with the pounded fugar, and let the •whole boil together five minutes ; then take them'off, and pot them up. White currants may be done in the fame way; only be fure you ufe double-refin’d fugar. This is a pretty preferve in glaffes or fine tarts. If you have a mind to do a few q£ yhem. upon flalks, you mu ft make aCIi. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 209 i fmall hole in the fide with the point of a pin, and pick out all the feeds ; drew1 a little pounded fugar on the bottom of a plate, and lay every dalk feparate; drew lome-of the pounded fugar over them ^ put them in at the fame time with the whole berries: when they are done, you can eafily feparate the berries on the dalks from the whole ones put them- into glades, and fill them up with the jelly, and let the ends of the dalks be uppermoll in the glades.- An excellent way of doing Currants fer' prefent vfe. Cad the whites of two or three eggs,, until they drop from the fpcon like wa- ter ; take the larged and bed red cur- rants y ou can get; keep them on the dalks ; have lome double-refined fugar pounded and fitted ; take every dalk of the berries by itfelf; dip them in the eggs as above ; and while they are wet, roll them gently in the fugar ; lay them, fo as not to touch each other on a Iheetr of clean.white paper before the fire to2io Cookery and Pastry. , J| dry; but take care you don’t burn them; put them on a china plate, and fo lend them to table. It there are any green berries at the end of die ftalk, be Pure to pick them off To preferve Rqfberries whole. Take die befb you can get; and to- every pound of them take a pound and a half of fingle-refined fugar ; clarify and boil it candy-high ; keep a little of the fugar out to pound and fift; when the fugar is ready, put in. the rafps, and let them boil as quick as pofrible ; drew- the pounded fugar over them as they boil ; when the fugar boils over them, take them off the fire, and let them hand until they 3re almoft cold. To every pound of rafps put half a mutch- kin of currant juice, which put in a- inongfl them; then put the whole on to boil, till the fyrup hangs in flakes from the fpoon; keep humming as they rile; then take it off,, and put it in pots 011 piaffes. Straw-CL ^.Preserves, Pickles, &c. 2 it Strawberries are preferved in the fame mazier. To make Rajhcrry Jam. Pick and clean the berries- well. To every pound of berries take half a mute kin of the juice of currants, and a pound and a half of lump fugar pound it, and put it into a pan, a row of fruit and a row of fugar alternately ; let the whole (land in the pan fome time before you put them on the nre, to foften the fugar ; boil them on a quick fire, and when they fall to the bocton> they are enougL To preferve Green Goofeberries. Take the larged and greened gaiken& you can get; cut off the black tops, and leave the tails ; flit them down the fide with a pin, but not too long ; put in a bowl as much water as will cover them ; beat a good piece of alum ; put it into the water to diifolve. As you cut and open the berries, throw them into the water until they are all done ; K 4 theu~i2' Cookery and Pastry.. t-hen put them on the fire to fcald,W toke care they don’t boil; take them *nt very carefully with a ikimmer, and ipread them on the back of a fearce to drain the water from them. You muff mot lay one above another, for bruiiing them-. Weigh the berries before you do ,any thing to them ; and to every pound, of berries take two potmds of double- refin’d fugar; clarify the fugar. Your ■tnay lay by near one half of the fyrup, and the other half put in a pan until it boil; then put in a few of the berries carefully , let them boil juft one minute* take them up carefully, and put them into fmall pots ; repeat boiling the reft in the lame manner and time until they are all done ; put the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds ; pour it hot upon the berries,,and lay fome light thing over them to, keep them down a- mongft the fyrup ; let them ftand five days ; then di'ain all the fyrup from .them, which will be very thin ; add to it a part of that kept out; let it come to boil y throw in the berries, and give them.Ch. V, Preserves, Pickles, &c. 2t$_. them another minute’s boiling as at firft*. and lay them by rti the fame manner as before ; let them (land ten days ; add new fyrup to the old, and give them the fame boiling as before ; put them up and let them flaild other eight or ten. days. If they are not green enough*, give them another boil in the fame way; be fure every time you take off the fyrup to run it through a fearce, which takes out the feeds better than picking them, out with a pin, and much eafier. When they are fo done, and quite cold, cover them up dole with paper. To prcferve Red Goojeberries. ■ Take the bell Mogul berries; take ofP the black tops, and leave the flalks, as in the preceding receipt; take equal weight of berries and fiiigle refined fu- gar; clarify the fugar pmake a very fmall Hit in the berries with a pin on the fide, which lets .the fugar go through them. When the fyrup is ready, put in the berries, and let them boil till the fugar is quite into the heart of them, K 5 au4214 Cookery and Pastry; and become tranfparent; then take them up with a fkimmer ; put them into pots, and run the fyrup through a fearce, to keep out the feeds ; put the fyrup into a pan again, and let it boil until it ropes from the fpoon; then pour it on the berries; don’t let the ber- ries boil on too ftrong a fire. You may put them into gialfes, as they look very fine. To make Goofeherry yam. Take the fame weight of powder-fu- gar as of berries ; put in the berries* lire wing the fugar over them as you put them in ; pour half a mutchkin of water over them ; put them, on a flow fire ; let them boil -flowly a little time ; fifim them as clean as you can ; then put a quicker fire to them; let them boil till they are very clear, and will jelly. So pot them up. To make Goofeherry folly. Fill a (tone jar with ripe gooseber- ries j cover it clofe up with paper; put itCli. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c; 2ijf & 6 lire it in a pot of water; let them 1 oil until they are quite tender, juft as you do black currants -r then put them through a fearce. To every mutchkin of juicer- take a pound of fmgle-refin’d fugar ; clarify it, and boil it candy-high ; then, put in the juice, and let it boil till it jellies, which you will eafily know by* letting a little of it cool on a faucer j take off any feum that rifts from the" fruit before you pot it up. To preferve Cherries. Cut off part of each ftalk. To every pound of cherries take a pound of ftngle refin’d fugar ; clarify and boil it candy-high : put in the cherries, and. let them boil as quick as you can, until the fyrup entirely covers them : when they have boiled a little time, feum them, and let them ftand till next day. To very two pounds of cherries take a mutchkin of the juice of red currants, and allow a pound of fugar to die mutchkin of juice ; pour oft the fyrup from the cherries, and put it on the2i6 Cookery and Pastry. fire with the currant-juice ; let it boil; feum it, and then put in the' cherries ; let all boil together for two or three minutes ; and when they are almoft. cold, place them in pots or glades, and pour the fyrup over them. Morelia- cherries are better than the common ones ; but as the feafon of them is late,., the currants are commonly over before they‘are ripe ; in that cafe, you mud take currant-jelly. To preferve Cherries with Stalks and' _ Leaves. Take the larged May-duke cherries ; gather them carefully with the dalks,. and fome of the leaves on them ; take fome drong vinegar, and beat a little alum in it ; put it on the fire, and let it boil ; then dip in the dalks and leaves,, and give them a little boil in the vine- gar, (but take care you don’t let the cherries touch the vinegar) ; then lay them on a fearce to dry ; clarify two pounds of double refin’d fugar^HVhile the fyrup is boiling hot, dip the cherries, dalks.eh. V. Preserves, Pickles* &c. 2iy {talks, and leaves in it. When they are {calding hot, take them out again, and lay them on the fearce ; then boil up the fyrup candy-high ; dip thes cherries into it again ; then lay them again on the fearce; dry them in the fun, or in a drying ftove ; turn them frequently whilft on the fearce. To prcferve Apricots. Take the large ft and beft you can get, juft ripe, and no more ; open them at the crefs with a knife, and thruft out the ftone with a bodkin ; pare them as thin as you can. To every pound of apricots take a pound and a half of fine fugar. As you pare then, ftrew fome pounded fugar on them ; clarify the remainder of the fugar ; put the a- pricots in the fyrup, and let them lie till the fyrup is almoft cold ; then put them on a How fire, and let them fim- mer on the fire a lictle; cover them with white paper ; let them off the fire, and letthfjphiiid until they are almoft cold; then put them on again, and bring them to«i B Cookery and Pas t ry. to a fimmer ; repeat this three or four times, letting them be almoft cold be- fore you put them on; by this time the fiigar will be well incorporate with them ; then put on, and bring them to the boil; let them boil until they are quite tranfparent. If you choofe you may blanch the kernels, and put them in among!! them at the laft boiling.. So pot them up. To make Apricot yam. Stone and pare the apricots j take equal weight of fugar and fruit; clarify the fugar and boil it candy-height; put in the apricots, and let them boil very thick, until they are well broke. You may bruife them with a fpoon as they boil: you may boil a little white cur- rant jelly with them, for they are much the better of it; blanch the kernels, and mix with them juft before you take them off. This makes very fine tarts. To preferve Green Gauge Plumbs. Pluck the plumbs when fulr*grown, withCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 219 with the flack at each, and a leaf, if you can ; let them lie in cold water twenty- four hours ; take them out of that wa- ter ; put two or three green-kail blades in the bottom of a clean brafs-pan ; put in the fruit, with as much water as will wholly cover them; drew a little pound- ed alum amongfl them ; put them on a clear fire; and when they rife to the top, take them out, and put them in a bowl with a little warm water about them ; clean the pan again; put in a frefh green-kail blade in the pan; put as much boiling water on them as will cover them, with a little more pounded alum; cover them with a cloth; let them lbmd a quarter of an hour ; take them out of the water ; weigh them, and take equal weight of double-refin’d fugar ; pound the fugar ; clean the pan again ; put in the fruit, and drew the pounded fugar alongd them, and a little water ; fet it on a dear fire, and let it funnier and boil llowiy, until the fruit keen and tranfparent; put the fruit in pots j boil the fyrup a little longer}£2© Cookery and Fastry. longer ; and when it is cold, pour it on the fruit; let them hand two or three - days ; then pour ofF the fyrup ; boil it up with more fugar to a ftrong fmooth fyrup : when it is cold, pour it on the fruit, and clofe them up ; and as the fkin will fhrivel down, you mult take: it gently off To preforvc Magnum Plumbs. Take the plumbs before they are too ripe, and give them a flit' on the hollow fide with a pen-knife, and prick them with a pin ; take fcalding hot water, and put a little fugar in it; put in the plumbs ; cover them clofe up, and fet them on a flow fire to fimmer; take them oil, and let them ftand a little ; put them on the fire again to fimmer, but take care they do not break'; cla- rify as much fugar as will cover the plumbs, and boil it to candy-height: when the plumbs are pretty tender,, take them out of that liquor, and put them amongfl the fyrup whejn it is al- snoft cold, tilLthey are very transparent p A fkim?Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles &c. 221 fkim them, and rate them off; let them {land abovit two hours ; then fct them on, and give them another boil; put them in pots or glades ; boil up the fyrup very thick ; and when it is cold pour it over the plumbs. To keep common Plumbs for Tarts. Put the plumbs into a narrow-mouth’d ftone-jar. To every twelve pounds of plumbs take leven pounds of raw fugar, and drew it in ainongft the plumbs as you put them in the jar ; tie up the mouth of the pot very clofe with feveral folds of paper ; put them into a How oven and let them hand until the fugar has quite penetrated them, and the* they are enough. To prefervc Peaches, Put the peaches into boil’d water, but don’t let them boil; take them out, and put them into cold water ; then lay them between two cloths to dry. To every doaen of peaches clarify a pound on fugar; when you take the peaches out222 Cookery and Pastry. out the cloth, prick them with a pin; put them into a dofe-mouth’d jar ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them, and fill up the jar with brandy; put a wet bladder on the mouth, of the jar; and tie leather above it. To preferve Peat's. Take the bell preferring pears new pluck’d ; make a {mail hole at the black end with a fmall ivory bodkin, and pic.£ c lit the feeds ; pare them very thin ; weigh them, and take equal weight of fine fugar ; take half a mutchkin of the water that boil’d, the pears to each pound of fugar ; clarify it, and put in the pears ; let them boil until they are foft. When you put the pears into pots, boil up the fyrup again, and pour it over them : when it is quite cold, put a clove- into every pear where the eye was cut out; cover them with the jelly oi" apples and fo pot them up. To preferve Pears rca^ Take the larged pound-pears when fulleh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 223 full ripe; pare them, and put them in- to as much water as will cover them ; pound a drop or two of cochineal, and put it into the water; let them,boil till they are tender ; keep them clofe co- vered while the fyrup is making ; weigh them, and take equal weight of fugar ; clarify it; then put in the pears ; fqueeze the juice of a lemon amongft the fyrup, and cut the thin pairing of the lemon as fmall as you can, and put 111 it: let them boil until they are red and trans- parent ; then put them into pots ; and when the fyrup is cold, pour it over them; cover them with the jelly of red goofeberries ; pick out the feeds, as in the preceding receipt, and put a clove into every pear. To make Apple Jolly- Pare a dozen of good tart apples ; take a pint of water; cut the apples in very linall bits, and throw them into the water as you cut them, to preferve their colour; let them boil until the whole fubfiance is out of them, and diefc24 Cookery antT Pastry. the water half wafted ; then put it int© a hair-fearce ; let them Hand u Jitil all the water is drain’d from them. To every mutchkin of the liquor take a pound of fine fiigar ; caft the white of an egg or two, and put in amongft the fiigar and liquor; put them on the fire, and keep them ftirring until the fugar is melted ; when it boils a while, take oh the fcum, and put in the juice of a lemon or two, as you like it of tartnefs. You may boil in a piece of the rhind along with them ; let it boil until it jellies, which yon will know by putting a. little of it on a faucer to cooi ; take all the leum clean eft, and take out the let- mon. So pot it up. Chip and Jelly cf Apples. Prepare the apples in the fame way as in the foregoing receipt for the jelly ; pare, the apples, cut them in dices, and then cut the dices into long chips (as you do die chip marmalade); put- them amongft cold water. You may weigh two pounds of apples before you pare them.Ch. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c 225- them. To each chopin of juice allow two pounds of fine 111 gar, and a pound and a half for the two pounds of chips ; put on all the fugar and juice ; clarify it with the eggs as you do the jelly; when the fyrup is well fcummed, fqueeze in the juice of three lemons, put in it fome of the parings of the lemons : drain the water from the chips, and put them in- to the fyrup ; they mult boil on a quick lire ; let them boil until the chips are quite tranfparent. You muft be fure that they are very firm apples. The true leadington anlwers very well, or the pippins. This is a very pretty preferve^ cither in glafTcs or fine tarts. To prefer vc Apples green. Take the large coddling, or any other hard green apple ; they muft be newly pulled ; cut them in quarters, and cut out the core ; put them into a brafs pan, with hard water and a little pounded .alum ; turn the green fide downmoft; let them funnier on a flow fire, but 'don’t let them boil; they are enough' when226 Cookery and Pastry. when you take off the fkin without any ©f the fruit adhering to it; and after they are all peeled, put them on again amongflthe fame water, with two oun- ces of fugar ; keep down the green fide, and let them fimmer gently for a little while ; put them on and off the fire un- til they turn green ; they mud not be long at a time on the fire, as they would become too foft; take out the apples from the liquor, and lay them on a difh. To every pound of apples clarify a pound of fine fugar ; when the fyrup is ready put in the apples, and give them a quick boil, until they are tranfparent; take them out of the fyrup, and boil up the fyrup until it is pretty thick. When the apples and fyrup are cold, put them into pots ; let them Hand fome days, and if the fyrup is turned thin, pour it off'the apples, and give them a boil in it; and when they are cold, put them into pots, and dole them up. You may look at them in a fortnight after ; and if the fyrup is turned thin, boil them up again as before,Cli. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 22$ them Apples in Syrup\ Take firm round apples; take out the cores ; pare them, and throw them into cold water as you pair them ; clarify as much fine fugar as will cover them ; put them into the fyrup, and let them .boil on a quick fire until the apples are tranfparent; turn them often in the pan that the fugar may boil over them: place them neatly in a china difh, and pour the fyrup about them ; put in the juice of a lemon when the fyrup is cla- rified. If you have any preferved bar- berries, you may put in two or three fprigs of them on the top of the apples. This is a very pretty difh for prefent life. To preferve Cucumbers. Take the greened:, and not too large, /cucumbers you can get, and lay them in a ilrong pickle of fait and water; let •them lie four.days; take them out of that pickle, and put them in a frelh /one as ftrong as the former, and let228 Cookery and Pastry. them lie as long in it as in the firft:; waih them out of that in clean water, and lay them in plenty of frelh water for twenty-four hours ; lay a weight on them to hold them down ; make a Hit in one of the hallows with a pen-knife, and take out all the pulp ; lay green blades in the bottom of a pan ; then put the cucumbers into the pan ; take -equal quantity of vinegar and water; more than cover them ; put in a good piece of pounded alum and faltpetre ; ftrew it in the pan ; cover up clofe with more green blades ; put them on the fire, and let thfem be near the boil; fet them off the fire, and let them ftand for an hour or more ; fet them on again, and give them a good quick heat, but not to boil; fet them off, and let them {land as long as before ; then put them on the fire again, and give them a quick boil. When that is done, they will turn green ; take them up and fpread them between two cloths, with the cut fide xmdermoft; take thin pairings of lemons, white pepper, diced ginger, fome bladesCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c, 229 of mace; mix all thefe together, and fluff the cucumbers full of them; then lay them in a flat-bottom d potting-can with the cut fide up; have as much double-refin’d fugar clarified as will co- ver them. When the fyrup is cold pour it over them ; cover them with a plate and a weight above it, to hold them down amongft the fyrup. When the fyrup is quite thin about them, pour it off; add more fugar to it, and boil it up to a good fyrup, and when cold, pour it over the encumbers; let it hand on them for eight or ten days ; then pour it off, and boil it up again with more fugar. You muff continue fo do- ing for every eight or ten days, until the fugar be quite into the heart of them, and the cucumbers of a fine green, and that the fyrup remains thickabout them, then you may pot them up for ufe : throw in amongft the fyrup, when you pot them up, fome whole white pepper and ginger; for they cannot be too much flavoured of the fpices. You may cut them into what fhape you pleafe when L you250 Cookery and Pastry. you fend them to the table alongft with other prefcrves. To preferve Melons. Take the melons before they are quite ripe ; lay them in lalt and water two days ; take them out of that pickle, and lay them in cold clean water another day ; green them the fame way as the preferv’d cucumbers : when they are green’d, cut a fmail bit out at one of the 'ends, and fcoop out all the pulp. Do the fyrup the fame way as for the cu- cumbers ; let it be quite cold or you put it on the melons ; throw in a good deal of lemon-peel and caflia buds, and Jo me diced ginger amongft the fyrup ; and the lad boiling you give the fyrup put in fome of the juice of lemon. To preferve green Almonds. Pluck the almonds when not full grown, but fo tender that a pin will pierce through them ; rub them with a clean cloth, and put them into boiling water for three or four minutes, untilCh. V. Preserves, Picklts, See. 251 the oncer (km will rub off with a cloth, have ready fame thick fyrup, and put the almonds in it, and let them boil two minutes ; take them out of the fyrup; and boil the fyrup a little longer, and pour it on them ; repeat the boiling the fyrup five or fix days, until the fyrup remains thick on them, and that it is penetrated into them. Boil fome rock alum alfo in the water. All green and white preferves muff be done with double-rcfin’d fugar," eiie they won’t be pretty. Another thing to be minded is, that there is no other pans fit for preferving or pickling but bell-meral or brafs ones, and thefe mild always be clean Icour’d before you ufe them. To prefervc Burberries. Take the larged and fined fprigs of barberries you can get; lay then care- fully in a done flat-bottom’d pot; cla- rify as much fine fugar as will cover them : when the fyrup is cold, pour it L 2 over232 Cookery and Pastry. over them ; let it (land until the fyrup becomes thin ; then pour it off them, and add more fugar to it, and boil it to a pretty ftrong fyrup; when cold, pour it over them again, which you mult re- peat until the fyrupis incorporated with the berries, and that they are tranfpa- rent, and the fyrup remains thick about them; then pot them up for ufe. When you ufe them, take them up in whole fprigs ; put them into glaffes with the fyrup about them ; they look very pretty. They are a very pretty garniihing to milk-dilhes. Be fure to put paper dipped in fpirits clofe on all preserves, or in fine oil, which is rather better for keeping them from candying than the fpirits ; take care not to keep them in a damp place, nor in a place too drying. To make Lemon-fyrup. Cut the lemons, and fqueeze out the juice; put it into a done or china mug; a filver tankard is better, if you have it ; let the juice (land until it is clear; thenCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 233 then pour it off from the grounds : let nine of that go in. To every mutch- kin of juice beat and lift two pounds of double-refin’d fugar, and ftir it in a- mongfl the juice until it is diiTolved ; clean the tankard, and put the fyrup in- to it ; put the tankard into a pot of cold water, and let the water boil about it for a quarter of an hour; then take it out of the water, and let it Hand all night ; take off the feum and when the fyrup is cold, bottle it up. If it is in a mug, you mud tie feveral folds of paper about the mouth of it before you put it into the water. Syrup of Clove-fulyfioivcr. Cut all the white ends of them. To every pound of flowers put on a chopiu of water, and about a dozen of cloves; put them into a ftone pot, and tie them clofe up with paper, and put it into a pot of cold water; let it boil about them for five or fix hours; take care the water does not boil into the pot; then take them out, and fqueeze them through a L 3 cleanCookery and Pastry. ^34 clean doth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fine fugar ; put in the white of an egg to claiify it ; fcum it very well as ic boils up ; when cold, bottle it up. Syrup QjViohts. Pick them off the flalks. To every pound of violets pour on a mutchkin of boiling water ; cover them up clofc-, and let them hand for twenty-lour hours ; then drain it. For every mutchkin of juice take two pounds of double-refin’d fugar, pounded and lifted, and put it in by degrees; and when the fugar is quite didblved, bottle it tip. ■ Syrup cf Pale Rofes. Fill an earthen pot with rofes ; pour boiling water over them ; cover them up, and let them hand all next day ; drain them through a clean cloth, and add as many frelh rofes to the liquor as you had before; let them on the fire, and let them boil until they are drong ; then drain it. To every mutchkin ofCh. V. Preserves, Tickles,&c. 235 jaice take a pound of fine fugar, and mix it in with the juice; put in the white of an egg or two to clarify it ; then put it on the fire to boil; it mult not boil too long ; fcum it very well, and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Maidenhair. Take half a pound of maidenhair, and half a pound of liquorice-dick ; peel off the fkin, and dice it clown ; take an ounce of tiffilago ; put them a'l into a pet that will hold a pint; fill the pot with water ; tie it clofe up, and put it into a pot of cold water ; fet it on the fire, and let it boil for feven or eight hours ; then drain it through a cloth. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of white fugar-candy ; clarify it with, the white of an egg ; let it boil well ; fcum it, and when cold bottle it up. Syrup rf 1uniip. Walla the turnip very clean, and dry them with a cloth; grate them down and drain them through a clean cloth. To L 4 every m236 Cookery and Pastry. every miitcbkin of juice take a pound of a'ngar-candy; clarify it with the white of an egg ; let it boil well; fcum it, and when cold bottle it up. Syrup of Nettles. Tjitce the red nettles in the fpringof the yeai; pick and wafh them very clean through two or three waters; beat them in a mortar, and fqueeze out the juice; let it fiand twenty-four hours to fettle; then pour all the clear juice from the 'grounds. To every mutchkin of juice take a pound of fugar-candy, and cla- rify it; boil and fcum it, and when cold bottle it up. Conferve of Rofes. *1 ake the buds of the true fcarlet ro- fes ; clip off all the red part. To each pound of rofes beat and lift two pounds of fine fugar; pound the rofes very well, in a marble morrar; then flir in the fugar by degrees, and continue pound- ing until all the fugar is thoroughly in- corporated with the rofes. If you think it lCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 237 it too thin, add more fugar, until they will receive no more. To make Tablets. A Clarify fome fugar. To every pound of fugar take half an ounce of cinnamon finely pounded and fearced. The fugar mufl boil until you can blow it like bladders through the holes of the fkim- mer ; then mix in the cinnamon; take the pan off the fire, and prefs the fugar' againft the fide of the pan with the back of a fpoon, to make it grain; but- ter a fmooth Hone very well, or a clean pewter dilh, or a Iheet of clean white paper. You may pin it up at the cor- ners; pour the tablets on either of thefe; let it (land fome time; then fcore it; with a knife in fquares, and when it is-- quite firm take ic off. You may make ginger-tablet the- fame way ; and to the pound of fugar take a quarter of an ounce of ginger finely beat and fifted. You may put in. more, if you love it ftrong-flavoured of L 5 tha-238 Cookery and Pastry. the ginger. Superfine cinnamon-tablet mull be made with the very fined of fu- gar; and in placeof thepounded cinna- mon, you mud put in two tea-fpoonfuls of the oil of cinnamon. Be fure to mix the feafoning well amongd the fugar before you turn it out of the pan. ?o make Barley-fugar. Wadi a little barley, and put it on with boiling water ; let it boil a little; then turn out that water, and pour more boiling water on it ; put on a penny- worth of liquorice-dick ; let it boil un- til all the drength is out edit; then pour ofF the liquor, and let it dand to lettle, and pour all the clear from the grounds; take half a mutchkin of it to the pound of fugar ; clarify it with whites of eggs. It mud be on a fofc equal fire : you mud not dir it much on the fire ; it mud be boiled until it crackles. This is a higher degree of boiling the fugar than blowing. The way to know it, is to dip a final! dick into clean water ; then put it into the boiling fugar, and try it with your teeth 5Ch.V. Preserves, Pickles, See. 239. teeth ; if it flicks to them like glee, it is not enough. You mu ft boil it a litrle longer, and when you hear it crack be- tween your teeth take it off; have a done ready rubb’d with frefli butter or line oil ; then pour the fugar on it; you muft double it together, and cut it as fa ft as you can with bigYciffars ; give ic a little twill as you cut it. If you think J * the fugar boils too furioufly, put a very little bit of frefh butter amongfl it. To make Glafing jor Seed or Plumb Cake. Fake two pounds of double-refin’d fugar pounded and fifted; beat fix whites of eggs to a froth; call a little gum-water alonglt with the eggs ; then mix in the fugar, and beat it until it is very thick ; it will take two kours beat- ing : put it on the cake when it is taken out of tiie oven; then put it again into the oven a little, but take care it be nor. too hot. To mango Cucumbers. Take the greened and larged cucum-240 Cookery and Pastry. bers you can get, before they begin to turn yellow ; make a pickle of fait and water io ftrong as to carry an egg; let them lie four days in it; make a flit in one of the creffes ; fcoop out all the pulp; mix fome black and Jamaica pep- per, according to tiie quantity of cucum- bers; cut down three or four nutmegs ; “ice fome ginger, cloves, and fome blades of mace ; mix all thefe with a little mu (lard-feed; fill up every cucum- ber with thefe fpices, and-put a (ingle clove of garlick into every cucumber ; then tie them round with thread to keep in the fpices ; lay green-kail blades in the bottom of the pan; lay in the man- goes, and drew a good deal of pounded alum over them; then put in an equal quantity of water and vinegar, more than will cover them ; put in along with the alum a bit of faltpetre ; cover them up with blades, and put them on the fire; give them a good heat, but don’t let them boil; take them off, and let them (land an hour; then put them on again and repeat this for two or threeCh V. Preserves, Fickle3, &c, 241 three times: the laft time you put them on, let them boil until they are of a good green; then take them out of that, and lay them between the folds of two cloths, witii the cut tide undermoft to dry ; then clean the pan, and take as much ftrong vinegar as will cover them; put them into your pots, and pour the vinegar boiling hot upon them ; put amongft them any of the fpices that was left from filling them up ; cover them with two or three folds of a clean cloth until they are cold. All green pickles are done in the fame way as the mangoes; fuch as fmall cu- cumbers, kidney-beans, famphire, rad- difh pods, Indian crefles feed, &c. r To pickle Walnuts. Take full-grown walnuts before the fhells turn hard, fo that you can run a pin eahly through them; prick every nut with a big pin; boil a pickle of fait and water lo llrong as to bear an egg; fcum it when it boils, and pour it hot2j.2 Cookery and Pastry. on the nuts ; lay a weight on them to hold them down, and every four days make a new pickle as ftrong as the firft; continue fo doing for four or five times; and when you take them out of the lad brine, rub each nut with a clean coarfe cloth ; boil as much flrong vinegar as will cover them ; take black and Ja- maica pepper, cloves, and mace ; cut two or three nutmegs ; dice a piece of ginger and a piece of horfe-radifh ; put in three or four fpoonfuls of mu- ftard-feed, and a few cloves of garlick; firew inthe fpices amongft the walnuts as you put them in; then pour the vi- negar boiling hot on them, and cover them up with two or three folds of a clean cloth. To pickle Mn/Jjrooms. Take the fmall white buttons ; throw them in milk and water ; take them out of that, and rub every mu (h room with a piece of clean flannel ; and as you rub them, throw them into clean milk and water ; then put them into a pan of m " cleanCh.V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 243 clean cold water with a little bit of alum; pat them on the fire ; let them be near the boil, but not to boil ; take them off, and fpread them between two cloths to dry ; have ready boil’d as much of the ftrongeft vinegar as will cover them ; then put the muftirooms into bottles with whole white pepper, cloves, mace, and ginger. The vinegar muff be quite cold before you put it on them ; put a little Aveet oil on the tops of the bottles ; cork and tie them up very dole with a piece of leather. To pickle Cauliflowers. Take the cauliflowers when they are no larger than afinall turnip; takeaway all the green leaves from them ; put on fome milk and water ; and when it boils, put.in the flowers, and feald them in it ; take them off, and lay them be- tween two cloths to dry ; and when they are dry, put them into ajar: put in whole white pepper, mace, cloves, and a bit of ginger, amongft them: boil as much of the beft vinegar as will co- ver244 Cookery and Pastry. ver them; you mull let It be cold before you put it on them : you muft be fure that the cauliflowers be hard, white, and free of all blemilhes. You may pickle turnip in the fame way, but turn them out with a turner : if you have none, pare and cut them down very neatly in pieces about the fize of a walnut. To pickle Onions. Take fmall harct onions ; the filver onions ai e the bell; put them into a pan with cold water, put them on the fire, and let them be very near boiling1; then take off the fk.ms, and lay them between two cloths till they are cold ; put in white pepper, mace, cloves, and ginger, amongft them ; boil fome vinegar* and when it is cold pour it on them. To pickle Red Cabbage. Cut down the cabbage in very thin dices, and drew a good handful of fait in amongft them; prefs them down in a can, and let them Hand twenty-four hours ; then fcjueeze all the juice very - well pr fCh. V. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 24J well with your hand out of them; mix fame black and Jamaica pepper and cloves with the cabbage; pour vinegar boiling hot upon them ; cover up the mouth of the can with two or three folds of a cloth, and when they are cold clofe them up. To pickle Bit root. Put the bitroot into a pot full of boil- ing water ; take care not to cut nor break any of the fmall fibres nor the Ihaws: when they are boiled tender enough, let them cool a little, and take ofF the Ikins with a coarfe cloth ; dice them down into a pot, and put in fome black and Jamaica pepper and cloves among them, and fill up the pot with cold vinegar. If you have a mind to dye any of the turnips or onions red, put them in amongft the bitroot. You may dice a few onions, and threw in a- mongft pickled cabbage: it gives them a good relilh.2 46 Cookery and Pastry. To pickle Barberries. Take equal quantity of \inegar and water ; into a chopin of that put half a pound of kitchen-fugar and a little fait; then pick out the word of the berries ; bruile them in a mortar, and put them in amongft the liquor ; boil it till it is of a line colour ; let it (land to cool, and then drain it through a cloth ; put the bed of the barberries into ajar, arid when the pickle is cold and fettled, pour it cn them. All pickle Inould be covered up with a wet bladder, and a piece of leather tied above ; a wooden or horn fpoon is the bed for lifting pickles. To make Pickle-Lillo ror Indian Pickle. Take a pound of wrhite ginger ; let it lie one night in laic and water ; ferape and cut it into thin dices, and put it i:i a large done-jar with dry fair, and let it remain till the red of the ingredients are ready ; take one pound of gariick ; peelCliV. Preserves, Pickles, &c. 247 To peel ofF the fluns ; fait it three days ; then wafli it and fait it again, and let it lie three days longer; then walh it, and put it in a (ieve, and dry it in the fun; take two ounces of long pepper ; fait and dry it, but not too much ; take one ounce of white muftard feed,twoonnces of turtnerick root ; pound it well, and tie it in a mullin rag, and throw in all t hef'e i ngredi cuts i nco a wel 1 • g! ai\fea r th- en jar, putting a quart of ftrong white- wine vinegar to them, juft cold; do not boil it ; and if at any time the liquor dry up, add fome more vinegar ; take the white kind of cabbages ; cut them, into quarters ; fait them three days ; fqueeze the water from them, and dry them in the fun : do the fame to cauli- flowers and celery, only the white part of the celery : French beans, faiad, and afparagus, ihould only lie two days, and have a boil in fait and water, and be dried in the fun, and thrown into the pickle; keep them very clofe. White cucumber, or plumbs and apples, may be done in like manner with this pickle.248 ' Cookery and Pastry. To To make Sugar Vinegar To every pint of water take half a pound of raw fugar ; let it boil, and feum it as long as the fcum rifes; put it into a barrel that will hold it ; and when it is as cold as when you put barm (yell) to wort, foak a toad of bread in barm, and put to it; let it hand un- til it give over hiding ; then bung it ; let it hand in an equal warm place. If you make it in April, it will be ready againd the feafon of making pickles. To make Goofeberry Vinegar. To every pint of goofeberries allow three pints of water ; the berries mud be quite ripe; bruife them with your hand; boil the water, and let it be cold, and then put it on the berries ; let it Hand twenty-four hours; then drain it through a clean cloth. To a pint of that juice put half a pound of raw fu- gar ; mix it well, and when the fugar is diffolved, barrel it up; it mud dand nine or ten months at lead. This is a very drong vinegar.Cli. V. Pres erves, Pickles, &c. 249 To make Ketchup. Take the larged mufhrooms you can get, and cut off a bit of the end that the earth flicks on; break them in fmall pieces with your hands ; as you break them, drew fait on them; let them (land twenty-four hours; then turn them into a hair-fearce, and flir them often in the fearce to let the juice run from them. When you have gathered all the juice you can get, run it through a flannel bag. To every pint of juice allow an ounce of black and Jamaica pepper, two nutmegs bruifed, two drops of mace, two drops of cloves, and a piece of diced ginger ; clarify it with the whites of eggs; and when it is very clean feummed, put in the fpices, and let it boil until it tafles very ftrong of the fpices ; when cold, bottle it up, and put the fpices into the bottles ; pour a little fweet oil into each bottle; cork them, and tie a piece of leather above the corks. To make Walnut Ketchup. Take the walnuts when they are full grown,2jo Cookery and Pastry. grown, before the fhell turn hard ; prick them with a pin ; make a Prong piekle of fait and water to bear an egg; pour it boiling hot on the walnuts, and Jet them ftand for four days ; take them up, and wafh them with clean water, and dry them with a cloth ; beat them very well in a mortar. To every hundred walnuts put on two bottles of Prong Pale beer ; the Pronger the beer is the better ; let it Pand ten or twelve days on the walnuts ; then run it through a cloth, and Prain it hard to get all the juice out ; then run it through a flan- nel bag ; put it on the fire ; clarify it with whites of eggs ; when it is clean fcummed. put in black and Jamaica pepper, cloves, nutmegs, mace, fliced ginger, horfe-radilh fliced, and a quar- ter of a pound of anchovies ; let them boil until they are llrcng of the fpices ; then run it through a Pearce ; divide the fpices equally amongp the bottles, and put in a Angle clove of garlick into each bottle ; when the ketchup is cold, cork it up as the other ketchup. ' T0Ch. V. Pres erves, Pickles, &c. 251 To make a Twenty-pint Barrel of Double Rum Shrub. Beat eighteen pounds offmgle refin’d fugar; put it into the barrel, and pour a pint of lemon and a pint of orange juice upon the fugar ; (hake the barrel often, and ftir it up with a clean (tick till the fugar is diffolved. Before you fqueeze the fruit, pare four dozen of the lemons and oranges very thin ; put on fome rum on the rhind, and let it (land until it is to go into the barrel : when the fugar is ali melted, fill upthebarrcl withtherum, and put in the rum that the rhind is a- mongft along with it. Before the barrel is quitefull, {hake it heartily, that it may be all well mix’d ; then fillup the barrel with the rum, and bung it up; let it Hand fix weeks before you pierce it. If you fee it is not fine enough, let it Band a week or two longer. To make the true French white Raffia, which is one of the bejl compounded Drains. To two pints of brandy take four ounces of the kernels of apricots and peaches ;252 Cookery and Pastry. peaches ; bruife them in the mortar; take the thin parings of a dozen of le- mons and hx oranges'; bruife an ounce of coriander feed; break half an ounce of cinnamon in lmall bits, and take twenty whole cloves; mix all thefe ma- terials with the brandy. You may let them {land a month or fix weeks, flir- ring them often; put it through a fearce, and take a pound and a half of fine fa- gar ; clarify it, and mix it with the fpirits ; then bottle it ; put the corks loofe in, and let it Hand until it is quite fine; pour it from the grounds into o- therbottles. Ycu may filter the grounds through a paper or cotton in a filler. As we have not manv of thefe fruits, bitter almonds will fupply their place ; but take only the half of the quantity, and don’t bruife them, but cut them fmall with a knife. You may put on a pint of good whifky on the materials, and put a.good piece of fugar in it. It is a good feafoning for puddings, or a common dram. BiLLSt » * 1 Family Dinners cf Five Di/h . . > CSm Potatoes. Soup. Plum-pudding. Roaft Beef. Pickles*. Kidney (Beans. Dr eft Lamb’s head. Baked Pudding. Roall Mutton. Sliced Cucumber, Srocoli. Boiled Haddocks, or Fifli in fcafon. Baked Pudding. Roan Veal. Pickles* Greens. Boiled Pc'rk. Soup. Roaft Tui key. Pcafc Pudding. * * ’ § «. .. A ■ » Spillage. Stewed Tongue. Boiled Pudding. RoaR Rabbits. Cauliflower. ft •»+<*■ Peas. Hancot of Mutton. Baked Pudding. * Roafl Gocle. Apple Sauce*254 BILLS OF FARE. A Small Cod. Apple- Beef .Steak Pie. Sauce. Roaft Pork. A Round vi deef and Ca rots. Peafc. Boiled Pudding. Roaft Lamb. Fiflj Sauce. Salad. Family Dinners of Seven Dfiscs. Egg Sauce. Salad. Scolloped Oy fters. SBrocoli. Tufk Fifh. Soup. Roaft Loin ■of Veal. Potatoes. Cheefe-cakes. 'o44<• »<4« Drcft Calf’s Head. Afparagus, Apple Pie. Fretters, Boiled Beef and Greens. y Stewed Rump Almond °f Beef. Checfe-cakes. Floating Ifland. Ratafia 'Cream. Roaft Turkey, Lemon ■Cream. Crnfeftion Tarts.DILL OF' FARE. ?$$ Stewecl Celery. Jagged Hare. Pickles. Cuflard Puyling. Tarts. Saddle of Mutton. Potatoes Family Dinners of Eight Dijhes• Cod’s Head removed, with Roafted Duckling. Fricafee of Pallets. Goofeberry Sauce. Orange Pudding. Cauliflower. Minched Pie* Boiled Leg Lamb and Loin fried. Soup removed, Roafl Pig- Fricafee - Lemon Whitens. Pudding. Cuflard in Cups. Cold Tongue. Malh’d Turuips* Boiled Leg Mutton, Cauper Sauce. Family Dinner of Nine Dijbes. Lemon Fiflt removed,- Ragoo of Pigeons. Fricafee Pudding. of Kernels. Bacon and Beans. Soup. Boiled Chickens. Cauliflower. Pickles*. Roafted Beef. mJt M 2' Family Dinner of Fen Difees, Salmon removed, Roarlt; Turkey. .Stewed Cellory. Fried Fim, Fine baked Marrow pally. Soup, ■ Pudding. Sliced Turnips and" Veal Cutlet's. Carrot, with melted Butter ever them* jr * Boiled Tongue I.. 1 and Udder with Roots. • ... , . Family Dinner of Twelve Dfrees. Soup removed, with Boded Mutton and • Cauper Sauce. Boiled Chickens Road with Cream Sauce • Tongue, Stewed Cheefe-cakes'. Artichoke Bot- Mulhrooms. toms F ricalef. . Pigeon Pie. » tobflcr. Confection Tarts. Veal Olives* Roafl Hare. Family Dinner cf Fifteen Difees, Soup removed, Boiled Turkey with Oyfter Sauce, ~ Stewed Peas Scotch and Lettuce, Coll, .par Heir’s Nefl. Ratafia Cream. Rafbcrry Cream. Apricot Tart, Syllabubs. Orange Pudding, Blanc-mange. Jelly in a Cheap. Egg Cheefe. iiricalee. Wild fowls; Road Pig.Lftf 6c things m season; FEBRUARY. Meat. I.obflers, Coieworts, Sorrel, Y TOui'eLamb, Crabs, Sprouts, Burnet, Xl Pork, Cray-fifh, Borecole, Parfley, Beef, Prawns, Brocob, purple Thyme, Winter Savoury^ Mutton, Oylfers, and white, Veal. Sturgeon/ Cardoons, Rofemary, Poultry. Sainage, Sage, Marigold, Fijh. Hare, Carrots, Haddocks, Phealant, Parlhips, Lettuce, Cod, ' Partridge, ’ T urnips. Crefles, Sc!e3, Woodcock, Celery, Muftard, Turbot,, Sfiipcs, Turkeys, Endive', Rape, Thornback, 1 reeks, Radilh, Skate, Capons,, Onions, 'J’aragoir, Whitings. Pullets, Potatoes, Mint, Smelts, Fowls, Beefs, Chervil, Carp, Chickens, Garlic, Jerul'alem Ar0- Tench, Pigeons, Efchalot, chokes. Perch, Tame Rabbits. Mulhrooms, Eels, Sa’fafy, Fruit, Lampreys, Vege tables. Scorzonera, Apples, Plaice, Flounders, Cabbage, Savoys, Skirfets, Pears. MARC H. Meat. Flounders, I'egeiauu's. Potatoes T T On ft Lamb. XI Pork, , Mullets, Cabbage, Beets, Lob Hers, Savoys, Garbc, Beef, Crabs, Coieworts, Efchalot, Mutton, Cray-filh, Sprouts, Mulhrootfl^ Veal. Prawns. Borecole, Burnet, ,r, /‘J1- Brocoli, Purple Parfley, I iirhot. Poultry. and White, Thyme, Soles, Turkeys, Spinage, Savoury, Thornback, Capons, Cardoons, Rofemary, Skate, Pullets, Parfmps, Sage, Whitings, Fo\> Is, Carrots, Sorrel, Carp, Chickens, Turnips, Marigolds, Tench, Pigeons, Celery, Lettuce, Eels, Ducklings, Endive, Grebes, Plaice, Tame Rabbits. Onions, jMdlard,LIST OF THINGS IN SEASON. 2.60 Rape, Chervil, Tanfy, Fruit,» Radi 111,, Jerufalem Arti Cucumbers, Pears, 'paragon, chokes, Afparagus, Apples. Mine, Celery; Purllane. \ A P R I L- - , Hie at. Chubs, Vegetables. Beet, RafsLantb, Mullets, Coleworcs, Lettuce, \_T Beef, Cray-fifii, Sprouts, All forts of fmall; Mutton, Crabs, Youug Carrots, Salad, Veal. Lobders, Brocoli, All forts of Pot Fijb. Prawns. Spinage, Herbs, Turbot, Pardcy, Young, lhoots of- ■Sales, Poultry. Chervil, Salihfy, Skate, Leverets, Young Onions, Cucumbers, Carp, Rabbits, Celt ry> Tragopogon. Ten di. Ducklings, Endive, Trout, Pigeons, Sorrel, Burnet^. Fruit,. Herring, Pellets, Pears, Salmon, Fowls, Radilhes, Apples. Smelts, Chickens, Afparagus, - M A Y. • Herrings, Eels, Vegetables, All forts of fa lad; All forts of herbs. Meat. Chub, '"Cabbages, Peafe, N < Lobder, ■ Potatoes, Beans, T Amb, JLi Beef, Cray-fdh, 15 • Carrots, Afparagus, Crabs, w Turnips, Tragopogon, Mutton, Prawns. CattliflowerCucumbers. Veal.< Poultry Rae -Artichokes iilies, >- Fruit. Fiji. Spillage, Apples, Turbot, Green Geefe, Parfleyj Pears’, Carp, Ducklings, Sorrel, Cherries, Tench, Leverets, Balm, Some Strawber- Trout, Rabbits, Mint, ries, Salmon, Pullets, Purllane, Goofcberries and Soles, Fowls, Fennel, Currants for- .Snells, Chickens, Lettuce, Tarts.. JUNE.M 4 A ( *57 ) THINGS FOR SUPPER-DISHES. Minced veal—Beef (leaks—Road fowl, chicken, duck, hot or cold—Road hare—Cold diced beef, cold ham, cold tongue—Scollop oyders or pickled oyf- ters—Boiled tripe—Broiled fi(h—Sau- fages, rafpecl beef—any fort of potted meat—Veal cutlets, Scotch collops, cold veal or mutton hafhed—Fricafee of chicken, veal, lamb kernels, or any white meat—Pigeons roaded or broiled —Giblets dewed—Sliced coler—Lob- der, anchovies, and diced butter— Salmagundy—Turkey pout roaded, or any kind of wild-fowl roaded—Cold wild-fowl or hare dewed down— Pickles—Fine minced pies, tarts, cheefe- cakes, fine baked pudding, fritters, Ger- man puffs—Blanc-mange, tride, or any fort of creams you ehoofe—Spinage, a(- paragus, peas, artichokes, lalad—Botch- ed eggs and forrel—Cclery*dewed or for a falad—Potatoes. Have always (bine garden diih.es according to the feafons at (upper. Buttered crabs in the (hell, com- monly called parton pics—Pan-cakes.•) A LIST r ? . V* '*> *v' ' J * ■ : f O F THINGS IN SEASON1, IN’ EVERY MONTH OF THE YEAR, i ' iVteat. JANUARY. Lobflers, Colcworts, Sorrel, T TOufcLamb, Crabs, Sprouts, Burnet, XT Pork, Cray-Filh, Borecole, Parflcj, Beef, Prawns, Brocoli, purple bage, Thyme, Mutton, Oyiters, and w hite. Veal, Sturgeon. Spinagc, Rofcmary, Fiji. Poultry. Cardoons, Lettuce, Haddocks, Hare, Parfnips, Crefles, Cod, Phcafant, Carrots, Mutlard, Soles, Partridge, Turnips, Rape, Radilh, T urbot. Y/oodcocks, Celery, Thornback, Snipes, Endive, Taragon, Skate, Turkeys, Eeeks, Mint, Whittngs, Capons, Onions, Chervil. Smelts, Pullets, Potatoes, Fruit, Carp, Fowls, Beets, Garlick, Apples, Tench, Chickens, Pears, Perch, Tame Pigeons, Efehalct, Nuts, Eels, Rabbits. Mulhrooms, AJmonds, Eanprey*, Veg:! ablcs. Salfafy, Services, rlaice,. Cabbage, Scorzor.era, Medlars, flounders, Savoys, Skirrcts, Grapes. FEBRUARYLIST OF- THINGS IN SEASON. 2C t JUNE. FTrat. Herrings, Fowls, Raiifl-.es," t AMB, Smelts, Pullets, On ons. jLj Beef, Eels, Chickens. la; tuce, Mutton, Mullets, Al. fmall Salladj Veal, Lobfters, Fcretables. Al: Pot Herbs,. Buck Venifon. Cray-filh, Cucumbers, ih rlleyr, Prawns. Peale, Puri; ane. m Beans, Turbot, Poultry. Kidney Beans, Fruit. Mackerel, Trout, Green Geefe, J luck lings. Afparagus, Cabbages, 3t -awberries. Cherries, Carp, Turkey Poults, Cauliflowers, C .rrants, Tench, Plovers, Art.tin kes, C ooieherrieU Pike, Wheat Ears, Carrot', Apricots, Salmon, Leverets, Turnips, Apples, Soles, Rabbits, Potatoes, Pears. JULY. M: It. Lamb, j Beef, Mutton, Veal, Buck Vcnifon. F:fi. Co-1, Haddock, Mackerel, Solus, Herrings, Salmon, Carp, Tench, Plaice, Mullet, Flounders, L ATr.lt. AMI), Beef, Skate, Tnor.iback, Pike, Eels, I.obilers, Prawns, Ciay-hPi, Poultry. Green Gecfe, Ducklings, 1 i.rkty Poults, 1 .everuts, Rabbits, White Ears, Plovers, Pig T.RS, Pullets, F. v, Is, Chickens. Vegsiubles. PeaJ'e, Brans, K.dney Brans, Cabbage, Ca ul: flower. Cucumbers, Midi repats, Carrots, • Turnips, Potatoes, Kml.ihes, Fir.ochia, Siorzonera, Sabafy, Artichokes, Celery, Endive, Chervil, AUGUST. Mutton, Veal, Buck Vanifon. Borrel, Par/!ane, P.ir.lev, Ad fori: rfSalkct, All it 1 ts oi pel Ilcrbs. Fruits. Peers, Apph s, Cherries, Strawberries, Ralkerr.es, Peaches, Netftarincs, Plums, Apricots, Gooseberries, Melons. Fiji. Coci, Haddocks, Mackarel, Herring, Bkatcfl2 LIST OF THINGS IN SEASON. Skate, Plaice, Flounders, Thornback, Mullet, ?>ki, Carp, Eels, Oyfters, Lobfters, Cray-fifh, Prawns. Poultry. Moor Game, Turkey Poults, Geefe, Pucks, Wild Ducks, Pullet, Fowls, Chickens. Leverets-, Rabbi t5„ Pigeons, Plovers, Pheafant, Wheat Ears. Vegetalllz. Pcafe, Beans, Kidney Beans, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Cucumbers, Mufli rooms, Sprouts, Carrots,. Turnips, Potatoes, Radiflies, Finochia, Scorzonsra, ' Sallafy, Onions, Garlic, Efcbalot, Art liokes, Ceh j, F”d:ve, Sorrel, Parfley, Purflanc, All forts of SalTa-sf, All fertsof Herbs Dill, Spmage. Fruit. Peers, At p'cs, Peaches, Nectarines, Plums, Grapes, Figs, Filberts, Mulberries, Goofeberri.es, Currants, Melons. SEPTEMBER. Meat. Lamb, Beef, Mutton, Veal, Euck Venifon. Fife. Cod, Haddock, Salmon, Carpi Tench, Plaice, Flounders, Thombaclt, Skate, Sole*, Smelts, Pike, Gy ft era, I. ibflers. Poultry. f t jfc, Tt rkies. It lless. Fowls, Chickens, Ducks, Pigeons, 1 babbits, Teal, Larks, Hares, Pheafant, Partridge, Moor Game. V“get alia. Prafe, Brans,. Kidney Beans, Cauliflower, Cabbage, Sprouts, Carrots, Turnips, Parfnips, Potatoes, Artichokes, Cucumbers, Mufli rooms,. Efchalots, Onions, Leeks, Garlic, Sccrzonera, Salfafy, Curdoons, Endive, Celery, Parfleyy Finochia, Lettuce, and all forts ef Salad, All forts ofHerbj- Radifhes. Fruit, Currants, Plums, Peaches,, Pears. Apples,. Grapes, Figs, Walnuts, Filberts, Hazle Nuts, Medlars, Quinces, LazaroLes, Cherries, Melons. OCTOBER*UST OF THINGS In SEASON. ✓ OCTOBER. Slf’t?!. Cockles TJORK, X Lamb, Poultry. •Mutton, Turkeys, Beef, Geefe, Veal. Pigeons, Doe Venifon. Pullets, 'Fiji. Fowls, 'Salmon Trout, Chickens, Smelts, Will 1-Ducks, Carp, Teal, Tench, Widgeon, Dorec, Larks, Berbet, Woodcock, Holobet, Snipes, Brills, Gudgeons, Hares, Pheafants, ■Pike, Partridges, Perch, Dotterels, JLobders, Rabbits. Oyflcrs, lrtfretaUeo. Mufcles, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Chard Beets, •Brocoli, Bests, Savoys, Fi. lochia. .Sprouts, Clervil, Coleworf, M uhrooms. Carrots," Lettuce &. fmcll Turnips, Salad, Potatoes, All forts of Parfnips, Herbs. Skirrets, Fruit. Salfafy, Pears, -Scorzonera, Apples, Turnip-rooted Peaches, and Black Spa- ■ Figs, * nifh Radifh, Medlars, Some Artichokes Services, Onions, Quinces, Leeks, Bull ace, F.lchalor, Grapes. Rocambole, Walnuts, Celery, Filberts, Endive, Nuts. NOVEMBER. Meat. Gudgeons, Dotterels. Potatoes, TTOufeLamb XX Pork, , Lobfters, Hares, Salfafy, Oyfters, Pheafants, Skirrets, Beef, Cockles, Partridges, Scorzonera, Mutton, Mufcles. Rabbts. Onions, Veal. Poultry. Turkeys, Vtgetablcs. Cabbage, Leeks, Efchalot, Fiji. Ge fe, Savoys, Rocombole, .Salmon, Fowls, Pullet6, Borecole, Beet, Salmon Trout, Sprouts, Chard Beet, Garp, Chickdhs, Colewort, Cardoons, Tench, Pigeons, Cauliflower, Parfley, Pike, Wild-Ducks, Spinage, Celery, •Gurnet, Teal, Jerufalem Arti- Creffes, Doree. Widgeon, chokes, Endive, Chervil, Holobet, Woodcocks, Carrots, Berbet, Snipes, » Turnips, Lettuce and fkiail •Smelts, Larks, Parfnips, Sail ad264 LIST OF THINGS IN SEASON. Allfortsof H a bs Apples, Fruit. Bullace, Pears, Clielbuts, D E C E Jt Feat. Eels, UOule Datib, OyPeers, JLi Pork, Cockles, Reef, Mufcles. Mutton, Veal, Poultry, Doe Venifon. T utldes, Fiji. Geefe, Haddocks, Pullets, Cod, Capons, Codlings, Fowls, Soles, Chickens, Carp, Pigeons, Smelts, Rabbits, Gurnets-, Woodcocks, Sturgeon, Snipes, Dorees, Hares, Jiolobets, Partridges, Berbet, Pheafant, Gwdpon?, Teal, f I Hazle Nuts, Services, Walnuts, Grapes* Medlars, V> M B E R. Widgeon, Efchalot, Dotterels, Rocombole, Darks, Celery, Wild Ducks. Endive, Spinage, Vegetables. Beets, Purpleand white CrelTes, Brocoli, EettupeandfotaU Cabbages, Sallad, Savoys, Pot Herbs, Borecole, Cardoons. Carrots, Parfnips, Fn.it. Turnips, Apples, Potatoes, Pears, sfrirrets. Medlars, Scorzoncra, Services, Salfafy, Cheinjits, Decks, Crape;. Onions, N l•*. ► *1* % St* *'