MUSEUM BROOKESIANUM. A ; DESCRIPTIVE AND HISTORICAL CATALOGUE OF THE REMAINDER OF THE LNATOMICAL & ZOOTOMICAL MUSEUM, OF JOSHUA BROOKES, Esq. F.R.S. F.L.S. F.Z.S. &c. OMPRISING nearly ONE HALF OF THE ORIGINAL COLLECTION, AND EMBRACING AN ALMOST ENDLESS ASSEMBLAGE OF EVERY SPECIES OF ANATOMICAL, PATHOLOGICAL, OBSTETRICAL, AND ZOOTOMICAL PREPARATIONS, As well as Subjects in NATURAL HISTORY, Of the choicest and rarest Species in every Department; ISahich hjill lie auctioK, by ifESSRS. WHEATLEY & ADLARD, At the Theatre of Anatomy^ Blenheim Street^ Great Marlborough Street, On MONDAY, the 1st of MARCH, 1830, lND 22 FOLLOWING EVENINGS, (SATURDAYS & SUNDAYS EXCEPTED,) AT HALF-PAST SIX O’CLOCK PRECISELY. le Collection may be viewed by Tickets, which with Catalogues, price Three Shillings, may be had in ill the principal Towns of England ; at Edinburgh; Glasgow, and Dublin; of Mons» Bossange pere, and Messrs. Gallignani, Paris; and at the Offices ot Messrs. Wheatley and Adlard, 191, Piccadifly, London. miNTED BY RICHARD TATEOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.CONDITIONS OF SALE. FIRST. The highest Bidder to be the Buyer; and if any dispute shall arise between Two or more Bidders, the Lot so disputed shall be immediately put up again and re-sold. SECOND. No Person to advance less than Sixpence at each Bidding ;—above Ten Shillings, One Shilling;—above Two Pounds, Two Shillings;—above Five Pounds, Five Shillings ; and so on in proportion. THIRD. The Purchasers to give in their Names and Places of Abode, and pay a Deposit of 5s. in the Pound in part of Payment of the Purchase-money (if required); in default of which the Lot or Lots so purchased, to be put up again and re- sold. FOURTH. The Lots to be absolutely cleared away with all faults and errors of Description, at | the Purchasers’ Expense, on the Morning after each Evening’s Sale; in default of which the Purchasers to be liable to any injury their Lots may sustain. FIFTH. i AS THIS AUCTION IS MADE ON CONDITION OF PROMPT PAYMENT, THE REMAINDER OF THE PURCHASE-MONEY, TOGETHER WITH THE DUTY, TO BE ABSOLUTELY PAID ON OR BEFORE THE DELIVERY OF THE LOTS. LASTLY. J Upon failure of complying with the above Conditions, the Money deposited in part of payment shall be forfeited, and all Lots uncleared or unsettled for after the time aforesaid, shall be resold by public or private sale; and any deficiency at- tending such re-sale shall be made good by the defaulters at this present salej! who shall have no claim to any of the surplus they may sell for. (THE DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE BUYER.)GALLERY. The Collection as it now remains, embraces nearly seventeen hundred Preparations in Bottles, illustrating the most interesting subjects in Ana- tomy, in Pathology, and in the Obstetrical and Zootomical departments of Science; together with many extremely rare specimens in Natural History, &c. SALOON. This apartment is wholly occupied by glass cases, replete with dried vascular subjects of all ages, heads, trunks, visceral and evisceral, sane and morbid. Superior and inferior extremities.—Of the former there is one on which the operation for aneurism had been performed twelve years pre- viously to the patient’s death, by Wm. Lynn, Esq. Another has the cubital artery passing under the ligamentum carpi annulare anticum; besides others in which the radial arteries pursued their course anterior to the tendons of the extensors of the thumb: several have superficial cubital and their large median arteries.—Of the latter^ there are two instances, in well-injected extremities, of obliterated crural arteries: also two equally well injected, with impervious popliteal arteries. Likewise finely injected hearts, lungs, the contents of the posterior mediastinum; in fact, the whole of the thoracic viscera. And, in addition, choice preparations of herniae, placentae, &c. A series of finely-^injected gravid uteri at various periods of gestation; abdominal and pelvic viscera, ligamentous preparations of the head, vertebral column, and extremities, displayed in an interesting manner, several have the fasciae also preserved; there is likewise a multitude of calculi, com- prising renal, vesical, and cholesterine formations. One case is chiefly filled with choice skeletons of Reptilia, Amphibia, and Fishes; another contains a beautiful display’of stuffed Animals, many of which are extremely scarce, and one of them is perhaps otherwise unattainable, viz. the Caleas (Glaucopis), besides a multitude of highly desirable objects of Natural History. Of the numerous Skeletons, one is nearly seven feet in stature, and another (a ligamentous skeleton of an Ethiopian) has six lum- bar vertebrae. Some have incurvated spines, and others are variously de- formed ; independently of a score of natural skeletons of young subjects, foetuses, &c., down to the foetus of two months after conception. Among the Crania (above a hundred in number), many exhibit instances of exten- sive malignant diseases, (one specimen is unquestionably unique), or are exotics, or from assassins, or testify remarkable phrenological manifesta-SEVENTH DAY. Compartment E. U. Consisting chiefly of Stomachs, Human and Comparative, Sane and Morbid, with many Cases of Hernia ; some particularly interesting. Compartment E. I. Comprising Preparations of Morbid Hearts, Aneurisms Diseased and Pretematurally formed Arteries, Veins, EIGHTH DAY. GALLERY. Compartment E. O. Hearts to show Natural Conformation and Morbid Affections. Arteries, showing Structure, Aneurisms, and other Diseases. NINTH DAY. GALLERY. Compartment O. Absorbents, Sexual Organs, Pathology, &c. TENTH DAY. SALOON.—GLASS CASE C. Dried Vascular Preparations of Heads, Superior Extremities, Thoracic Viscera, &c. ELEVENTH DAY. SALOON. Compartment D. Pelves, many of which are remarkable for extreme distortion, or are otherwise very much diseased: in some the Acetabula are obliterated, and in one there are even four Acetabula. There are among them Pelves from both sexes in a sane state. This Case also contains several Vertebral Columns, both of a natural and preternatural conformation.—Compartment A. A Glass case, con- taining various sane and distorted human Skeletons ; Crania, some showing the ultimate effects of the operation of the trephine upon the bone, others exhibiting the consequences of the Syphilitic Virus, and several Phagedenic maladies; many are remarkable for great diversity of suture, and present several striking Phrenological manifestations, &c. &c. This Case likewise contains choice and possibly unique specimens of Incurvations of the Spine, Caries, Anchyloses, &c.; besides a multitude of cylindrical bones extensively diseased; many fine Verte- bral Columns articulated, and parcels of other bones. TWELFTH DAY. {Com'purtment E, continued.') Injuries of the Head, Crania, Fractures, Fissures, Depressions, &c. Syphilitic Affections. Crania exemplifying the ravages of this dire malady on the bones of the head and face, which now, for the happiness of mankind, from improved practice, are likely rarely to recur. Therefore these monuments of this Protean disease are most probably the best and finest examples which may be offered for sale. Crania exhibiting remarkable instances of Phrenological manifestations.THIRTEENTH DAY. SALOON. C ompartment F. Preparations of the Blood-vessels ; of the Viscera ; of Uteri and their Appendages; ofVesicse Urinariae; Prostate Glands, Vesiculae Seminales ; Heads, Trunks, Extremities, &c. FOURTEENTH DAY. (^Compartment F. continued.) Compartment G. Containing preparations of Blood-vessels, Trunks, Extremities dissected for Ligaments; Stomachs; some fine specimens of the Male Organs ; Morbid Subjects; Calculi, both Vesical and Renal; Cholesterine Formations, &c. FIFTEENTH DAY. (Compartment G. continued; misprinted F, m the Catalogue.) Compartment I. Containing a multitude of Human Crania, some from Assassins, others Exotic; sections of Skulls, and a considerable number of Comparative Preparations, Subjects in Natural History, &c. SIXTEENTH DAY. SALOON. (Compartment /. continued.) Zoology, Comparative Anatomy, &c. chiefly Stuffed Birds in Glass Cases. SEVENTEENTH DAY. Rare Exotic Animals, chiefly Birds, stuffed, and in spirits ; Dried Skins, &c. GALLERY. (Compartment C, continued.) EIGHTEENTH DAY. Compartment K. The same subject continued. NINETEENTH DAY. Compartment Y. Natural History continued. TWENTIETH DAY. Compartment CE. Natural History continued, viz. Reptilia, Amphibia, Fishes, Mollusca, and Entozoa; in Spirits.TWENTY-FIRST DAY. ZOOTOMICAL ROOM APPERTAINING TO THE GALLERY. Skeletons and Detached Bones. ORNITHOTOMICAL ROOM—SALOON. CASES F. G. & H. Erpetology and Ichthyology. Comparative Skeletons continued. TWENTY.SECOND DAY. SALOON. Case H. The same subject continued. FLOOR OF THE SALOON,—TABLE OF THE SALOON. PICTURE-ROOM APPERTAINING TO THE GALLERY. Replete with Anatomical Paintings, &c. TWENTY-THIRD DAY. ( Picture-room continued.) DRAWING-ROOM AND LIBRARY. series of Anatomical Paintings in Distemper, chiefly of a Colossal size, repre- senting Dissections of every part of the Human Body.A CATALOGUE, &e. FIRST DAYS SALE. MONDAY^ at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER]. GALLERY OF THE SALOON. LOT 1 Bones of th^ superior extremity articulated. 2 Bones of the inferior extremity. 3 Specimens of nearly all the bones of the human subject clean and separated. 4 Ditto. 5 Ditto. 6 Human cranium. 7 Ditto. 8 Ditto. 9 Case of dissecting instruments. 10 Ditto. Compartment P. Osteological Pathology, &c. LOT 1 Great toe amputated in consequence of a wound that produced locked jaw. 2 A fine specimen of ossification of some of the fibres of the musculus gluteus maximus. 3 Exfoliations of the bones of the cranium. 4 An uncommonly fine large specimen of exfoliation of one of the bones of the cranium. 5 The head, and a portion of the os femoris, fractured at its cervix. 6 A very extraordinary and particularly fine specimen of exfoliation of the ossa pubis, from an individual whose penis and scrotum had previously sloughed off. The patient entirely recovered, and for many years afterwards enjoyed good health : he was personally known to many professional gentlemen. 7 The atlas and vertebra dentata, showing the articulation and ligamentum trans- versale. r 8 A case of morbus coxendicis, comprising the diseased head of the os femoris from ' a young subject. L 9 Extremity of the radius diseased, f 10 A fine example of hydro-rachitis in a child. I 11 The lower part of the spine, sacrum, and ossa coccygis from a child in a sane J state, illustrative of the preceding preparation, and of about the same mag- I nitude. L12 Two fractured ribs re-united and anchylosed with each other. 13 An excellent specimen of hydro-rachitis in a child. 14 The lower part of the tibia and fibula, having been fractured are reunited. 15 An elbow-joint, minutely injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine.2 FIK«T DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,'] LOT 16 19 20 21 /22 123 24 25 26 27 C2S < 29 L30 31 32 38 39 40 41 42 A very fine specimen of cartilage from a case of large spina ventosa (osteo-chon- drosis) of the thigh. A portion of a large tumor, apparently osteo-chondromatous. The extremity of the great toe torn off from the foot with the tendon of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis pedis. A most beautiful specimen of osteo-chondromatous secretion, being a portion of an immense tumor surrounding the os femoris. An uncommonly fine illustration of dry mortification of the foot. The condyles of the os femoris morbidly affected by a very considerable osteo- chondromatous tumor, A specimen of caries of the bodies of three dorsal vertebrae. Ditto of the bodies of five cervical vertebrae, A remarkable example of osseous tumor growing within the sinus pituitarius maxillaris dexter. The half of a morbid knee-joint exhibiting a high degree of inflammation in its interior : amputated by Mr. Pott. A fine specimen of hydro-rachitis from a subject ten or twelve years of age. A preparation of caries produced by abscess in the interior of the body of a lumbar vertebra. Several lacerated fingers torn from the hand of a young man by the bursting of a blunderbuss that he was firing in Oxford-street during the night of the rejoicings after the capture of Salamanca, which fingers were blown across the street and transfixed in the window over the door of a musical instrument maker’s shop. The remains of the mutilated hand were successfully ampu- tated at the wrist-joint by Mr. Brookes. A metacarpal bone and finger amputated by Mr. Brookes in consequence of sloughing of the tendons from a small lacerated wound produced by the frac- ture of the leg of a hare whilst skinning the animal. A thumb amputated by Mr. Brookes in consequence of an incurable disease. A most interesting specimen of caries of a part of the spine, accompanied by the entire destruction of the body of one lumbar vertebra, with a beautiful dis- section of the ligamentum longitudinale anticum. Another highly interesting example of caries, by which disease the bodies of four dorsal vertebrie have been entirely destroyed. N.B. There are two other spines hereafter to be seen, illustrative of the complete cure of a case in which the ravages of the disease have been equally extensive. A very unusual instance of caries accompanied by partial exfoliation r the os frontale, illustrative also of the application of the trephine prudently suspended. A finger amputated in consequence of sloughing of the flexor tendons. A fine case of caries of the bodies of several inferior cervical and superior dorsal vertebrae. An example of anchylosis; one lumbar, with six of the dorsal vertebrae. Complete caries of the bodies of several vertebrae, with the entire exposure of the medulla spinalis. Caries of the bodies of the three inferior lumbar vertebrae and upper part of the sacrum,.accompanied by anchylosis. Entire caries of the bodies of the four inferior dorsal vertebrae, with the sem- blance of an incipient cure. A very fine illustration of abscess in the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra hav- ing produced lumbar abscess. N.B. The lower part of the spine and sacrum of which this preparation consists, has been divided longitudinally, for the purpose of showing the contiguity of the abscess to the spinal chord. A preparation comprising the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae, with a part of the sacrum, in which the body of the last vertebra is extensively af- fected by caries. An example of the effects of absorption, produced on the margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula in consequence of the amputation of tne arm at the shoulder-joint. In addition to the preceding fact, this preparation demon- strates the course and distribution of the supra-scapular artery.3 FIRST DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be yaid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 43 Ditto, uninjected. 44 An uncommon and very singular case of fracture of the clavicle and coracoid process of the scapula; re-united. 45 A scapula affected with syphilis. 46 Ditto. 47 A scapula the inferior angle of which has been fractured and re-united. N.B. This scapula is from the same subject as No. 68. Compt. O. 48 A scapula from an individual whose arm was luxated. 49 A tibia affected with caries throughout. The tibia and fibula are much incurvated. 50 Carious tibia. 51 Exostosis of the linea aspera. 52 Diseased tibia. > 53 A most extraordinary specimen of the cannon bone of a beeve affected with' necrosis, accompanied by a very considerable osseous tumor, in which there is a large sinus leading into the interior of the bone: dredged up from the bottom of the river Thames, and presented by James Winston, Esq. 54 The lower half of a diseased tibia. 55 Ditto, with fracture of the malleolus internus. 56 Ditto, with fibula, exhibiting a fine specimen of incipient necrosis. 57 An illustration of extensive and uniform absorption of the whole of the bones of the left superior extremity from an adult female, whose corresponding arm retained its natural conformation. 58 The greater part of the adult human spine : the bodies of the vertebras are par- tially anchylosed. 59 An instance of re-united fractured spine taken from the body of an unfor- tunate cobbler, who, in a state of intoxication, fell down stairs into his cellar. In this remarkable case, about the middle of the back, the spinal chord is compressed almost to annihilation, by the posterior part of the body of a vertebra'. The hapless patient, however, lived a considerable period, as is obvious from an extensive osseous secretion at the injured part. This preparation further illustrates the exit of .several cervical and all the dorsal nerves, with an injection of one of the posterior spinal arteries, seen in consequence of the theca vertebrarum being divided; and also shows the ligaments of the spine and ribs. It appears further that the posterior part of the last cervical and spinous processes of many dorsal vertebrae are very much fractured. 60 An os femoris fractured just below its middle, accompanied by a remarkable osseous spicula, very badly reduced. 61 A multitude of ribs, much fractured and singularly re-united, from the horse. Compartment Q. Osteogeny. LOT f 1 The tip of the thumb minutely injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpen- I tine. 2 A section of cartilage from the head of the tibia, and one of the condyles of the I os brachii minutely injected. t 3 A beautiful specimen of the interior of the knee-joint in a foetus, r 4 A most interesting view of an incipient ossific nucleus in the middle of the < epiphysis, from the head of the tibia in the foetus. L 5 Ditto, from the condyles of the os femoris. {6 An osseous nucleus in the interior of the calcaneum. 7 Ditto, in the epiphysis of the head of the tibia. C 8 Ossification of the skin covering part of the tibia. < 9 Ossification in the interior of the epiphysis forming the head of the os brachii t in a young subject. B2FIRST DAY’S SALE. 4 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 10 Ossification of one of the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. 11 Ossification found in the interior of the musculus semi-tendinosus. 12 A very interesting preparation of a fractured olecranon remaining un-united. 13 A transverse section of part of the spine of a fish, 14 The astragalus and os calcis of a young subject, showing the progress of ossification. ri5 An ossification from the interior of the biceps flexor cruris. <16 The os brachii of a foetus injected, showing the head and condyles of the bone L in a cartilaginous state. ri7 The sternum of the Gallus Morio (or negro fowl), showing its black pe- J riosteum. A 18 The radius and ulna of a foetus tinged green, whilst their cartilaginous epi- L physes retain their natural colour. The skeleton foot of a young subject, showing the cartilaginous state of the tar- sus, metatarsus, and phalanges digitorum. A beautiful view of the vessels of a finger minutely injected, immersed in oil of turpentine. An os innominatum injected, showing its three distinct portions, viz. the ilium, ischium, and pubis, united at the acetabulum. An injected knee-joint from a young subject. r'Jo Two ribs anchylosed. J 24 Ditto, but consolidated into one bone at its dorsal extremity—very remark- ] able. v25 A longitudinal section of an infantile os brachii. A bisected os femoris from a young subject, showing the large osseous nucleus occupying the centre of the epiphysis. A longitudinal section of an injected foetal os femoris, exhibiting a view of an osseous nucleus in the condyloid epiphysis. f28 A longitudinal section of an os brachii from a young subject, showing a large J osseous nucleus in both its epiphyses. ) 29 A fine example of anchylosis of the three bones forming the ankle-joint, with L the os calcis. {30 A longitudinal section of the bones of the leg in a young subject, showing large osseous nuclei in the epiphyses at each of their extremities. 31 Ditto of the os femoris in the same subject. A section of the head of a slink calf, most minutely injected, admirably show- ing the extreme vascularity of the periodontium. A beautiful specimen of a minutely injected preparation of the knee-joint affording a highly interesting view of the interior of the articulation. , ^ o“± A longitudinal section of a portion of os femoris injected, showing the cancelli I and meditullium. I 35 A most splendid example of a considerable portion of foetal os parietale most ^ minutely injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. Ditto. A longitudinal section of the condyles of an adult os femoris covered by their articular cartilages minutely injected, showing the meditullium and membra- nous cryptas. The knee-joint of a young subject injected, showing the ligamentum patellae, and crucial ligaments, as well as a very fine osseous nucleus in the centre of the patella. 39 The tibia and fibula of a foetus minutely injected, showing the epiphyses and the arteria nutritia entering the canalis medullaris tibiae. 40 The os femoris of a foetus injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 41 A specimen of a foetal parietal bone minutely injected, and in spirits. 42 The elbow-joint of a young subject minutely injected, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 43 Ditto, having its phosphate of lime decomposed, and rendered transparent from being immersed in oil of turpentine. 18 19 20 21 22 ■23 24 5 26 27 •28 29 30 .31 32 33 34 35 36 37 385 FIRST DAY’S SALE. \_Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT f 44 A transverse section of an adult os femoris injected, demonstrating the cancelli \ and membranous cryptae. 45 The musculus soleus macerated for the purpose of showing that the red colour j is not inherent in the muscular fibre: the beautiful silvery appearance of the L tendo Achillis is extremely interesting. 4G Ditto, injected, but in a state of entire disorganization from disease. 47 A perfect anatomical bijou, consisting of a bisected tibia from a young sub- ject, most minutely injected, exhibiting an interesting view of the extreme vascularity of the medullary membranous cryptae, or internal periosteum which lines the cancelli of the bone : dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 48 A very fine example of a considerable ossification of the centrum tendinosum diaphragmatis, with a great portion of the muscle. 49 A minutely injected preparation of the bones of the arm and fore-arm divided longitudinally, exemplifying the beautiful distribution of the vessels ramifying in their interior, and destined for the secretion of marrow. r50 Ditto of the tarsus undivided. <51 The musculus semimembranosus of a crane { Grus communis), showing the ad- L mirable arrangement of the fibres of its osseous tendons. f52 The musculus soleus of a young subject, with the tendo Achillis minutely in- I jected. ^ 53 An interesting specimen of a minutely injected and recently fractured tibia di- vided longitudinally, affording a view of the increased vascularity produced in consequence of the accident: dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 54 A choice preparation, comprising a most minutely injected os innominatum and upper part of the os femoris, the head of which is connected with the acetabu- lum by the ligamentum internum : the bones have been split for the purpose of showing the highly vascular structure of the cancelli, and the osseous nuclei of the epiphyses of the head of the os femoris. f55 A pair of musculi solei minutely injected, with their tendons j dried and im- j mersed in oil of turpentine. j 56 A very distinct specimen of ossification in the substance of the musculus semi- L tendinosus. 57 A beautiful preparation of a minutely injected musculus soleus and tendo Achillis. 58 An almost unexampled fine specimen of an extraneous body extracted during life from the knee-joint by — Blackett, Esq. Surgeon, R. N. This prepara- tion consists of an osseous substance surrounded by cartilage, bisected : it had long remained moveable in the interior of the articulation, producing dreadful torment. 59 A superlatively fine preparation of the diaphragm, with its centrum tendinosum, from a young subject, very minutely injected j dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 60 A choice bijou, consisting of a longitudinal section of the tibia of a foetus, most successfully injected, dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. Patellae. 61 A specimen of patella from the adult subject, injected, showing the anterior, and supra-genual bursse mucosse. 62 A beautiful injected preparation of an osseous nucleus in the interior of the patella, from a subject about seven or eight years of age. 63 The patelja of a foetus anterior to the process of ossification. 64 A most minutely injected patella of a young subject, showing a small irregular osseous secretion, forming a nucleus, in its interior. 65 Ditto, the arteries being much larger, and the nucleus more considerable. f 66 An osseous nucleus, the size of half a large nutmeg, removed from its cartila- s ginous nidus in a young subject. L67 Ditto: anterior and posterior views.FIRST DAY’S SALE. 6 \Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 68 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected patella from a young subject, show- ing a fine and large osseous nucleus in its interior. 69 Ditto, the subject somewhat younger. 70 Ditto, still younger, but equally splendid. 71 An adult patella minutely^injected, and subsequently immersed in diluted mu- riatic acid for the purpose of decomposing its phosphate of lime : dried and immersed in oil of turpentine. 72 A foetal patella injected and rendered transparent by being dried and immersed in oil of turpentine, in which it is scarcely possible to discern the least trace of ossification. 73 Ditto. 74 An interesting example of an injected patella, having a small irregular nucleus, surrounded by its cartilaginous nidus. 75 Ditto, in which the nucleus is of less extent. Miscellaneous. Osteology and Pathology. LOT 76 An uncommonly fine specimen of a foetal spine at the full period of utero-ges- tation, accurately dissected. 77 The os femoris and os innominatum of a young subject, showing the attach- ment of the two bones by means of the ligamentum internum, and the three portions of which the os innominatum consists. 78 Avery clear illustration of a fractured and un-united os femoris, with part of the newly formed capsular ligament, beautifully exhibiting the recent articulation in the middle of the thigh.—^From a patient of Sir Anthony Carlisle’s. 79 Ditto, at the lower part of the os brachii, in which the newly formed articula- tion communicates with the elbow-joint, exhibiting a fine specimen of porce- lanic secretion formed by the previous absorption of the coronoid process of the ulna, from the constant friction of the os brachii, exhibiting at the same time a remarkable morbid alteration of the head of the radius. 80 Ditto, consisting of an instance of fracture of the os brachii somewhat above its middle, attended with similar results, 81 A choice foetal spine, admirably dissected and extremely elegant. 82 Adult bones of the leg, minutely injected, showing the entrance of the ramus nutritius, arterise tibialis posticee, passing into the interior of the bone by means of the canalis medullaris. (A case of Mollities Ossium.) 83 A specimen of the superior extremity of a foetus, showing the epiphyses of all the bones. 84 A preparation of caries of the astragalus and os calcis. 85 An adult hand well articulated, showing the progress of the tendon of the musculus flexor carpi radialis, passing in a sulcus in the os trapezium : in a bottle. 86 Very fine examples of a pair of ossa femorum, unusually long, and morbidly af- fected throughout in a most extraordinary degree : in a bottle. 87 Ditto, shorter. 88 Ditto, one of which is bisected for the purpose of showing the morbid alteration of structure in its interior, 89 Ditto, but undivided and syphilitically affected. 90 A singular instance of fractured os femoris, shockingly reduced. 91 Ditto, of the bones of the leg, the tibia being broken interiorly, producing a very long and remarkable spicula, and the fibula superiorly.SECOND DAY’S SALE. TUESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment R. Osteogeny, Osteology, and Pathology:—in bottles. LOT l A portion of the cranium calcined, showing the diploe. f 2 A most interesting surgical specimen of a very large exfoliation of a part of \ the cranium, expedited by the application of caustic. (. 3 An epiphysis of the tibia, showing an osseous nucleus in its interior. 1“ 4 A transverse section of the arm of a foetus, showing its component parts. I 5 A beautiful preparation of a portion of morbid cranium on which an abortive application of the trephine has been made, for the purpose of facilitating ex- foliation. 6 A small portion of injected bone. 7 An extraordinary example of the fractured os femoris of a bird, singularly re» 8 An elegant illustration of the os frontale of a foetus at about the fourth month. 9 The scapula and clavicula of a foetus at its full period, showing epiphyses : in spirits. plO A specimen of the vomer : on blue paper. I 11 Ditto of a pair of ossa palatina, exhibiting different views of those far ex- ( tended and extremely irregular bones : on blue paper. 12 The cranium of a foetus at about the third or fourth month of utero-gesta- f*13 An example of the atlas and vertebra dentata, showing the ligamentum trans» I versale, by which the odontoid process of the latter is connected tothe J former : in spirits. ^ 14 A pair of ossa turbinata, exhibiting different views of these bones : on blue L15 An os lachrymale : on blue paper. 16 A portion of the os occipitale, and several of the cervical vertebras connected % their natural ligaments, for the purpose of demonstrating the ligamen- tous connection of the vertebra dentata, atlas, and os occipitale, by means of the ligamentum transversale, perpendiculare, and ligamenta lateralia. 17 A beautiful preparation of the cranium of a foetus at four months, the left os parietale being removed, for the purpose of showing the falx major, tento- f rium, and interior of the cranium i in spirits. (~18 The ossa parietalia, os occipitale, frontale, and one os temporale, from a foetus j - at the period of five months, exhibiting the progress of ossification : dried, placed on blue paper, and immersed in oil of turpentine. I 19 The pelvis of a foetus, dissected for the purpose of showing the progress of L ossification : in spirits. 20 Three ribs and a section of the corresponding spine of a pig, tinged red by feeding the animal on madder. 21 The superior extremities of a foetus at the period of four months, dissected for the purpose of showing the progress of ossification : in spirits. ;22 A section of the os femoris of a young pig, tinged red by feeding the animal nn mnHfIpr. united. tion. paper.SECOND DAY’S SALE. {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT <( (“24 A series of the bones of the cranium of a foetus at the period of five months I demonstrating their beautiful irradiated fibres : dried, and placed on blue ^ paper. I 25 A choice assemblage of various bones, calcined for the purpose of exhibiting the cancelli, meditullium, and diploe. 26 A portion of the basis of the cranium, with the atlas and vertebra dentata, showing the interarticular cartilage and lateral ligaments of the lower jaw, the ligamentum perpendiculare connecting the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the os occipitale; also the ligamentum j transversale and the two ligamenta lateralia. I 27 A fine example of the os sacrum and ossa coccygis from a young adult sub- t ject, illustrating the various portions of which they are composed, 28 The adult knee-joint, the ligaments of which are dissected, showing their situation and connection : in spirits. 29 Ditto, dried. 30 A stump from an amputated leg, exhibiting incipient necrosis of both bones. c31 The pelvis of a young subject, demonstrating the connection of the three bones of which the os innominatum consists, and the distinct ossifications of the sacrum. 32 A most beautiful dissection of two lumbar vertebrse, showing the interver- tebral substance unravelled, with a choice display of the extremely delicate ligamenta intervertebralia. r 33 A portion of a calvaria from the adult subject, showing the pericranium. < 34 The greater part of the inferior extremity of a young subject, the bones of L which are connected by their natural ligaments. 35 Ditto, the whole of the superior extremity of a foetus at the period of seven months, displaying the cartilaginous carpus at this period, with the epiphyses of the metacarpal bones and phalanges digitorum. 36 The vertebrae colli, having red bougies passed through the foramina cervicalia, representative of the vertebral arteries. 37 Six cervical vertebrae, from a young gentleman who died in consequence of abscess formed between the os occipitale and atlas, producing caries of the superior surface of the last bone and destruction of the ligaments con- necting it with the vertebra dentata and occipital bone, in consequence of which the head and atlas advancing forwards, the medulla spinalis became compressed, occasioning universal paralysis. A very fine specimen of abscess in the cancelli of a rib. Three claviculas from different foetuses of an early period, showing the pro- gress of ossification. A. series of ribs of foetuses at an early period. 38 ^39 ^40 { { 41 Several ribs of the adult human subject, demonstrating the pleura to be a membrane totally distinct from the subjacent periosteum. 42 A series of claviculae from young subjects of various ages, exhibiting the ad- vancement of growth. 43 A specimen of injected sternum, with the cartilages of the true ribs, showing the process of ossification in a foetus. 44 Ditto, with the addition of the two internal mammary arteries, from a young subject. 45 Ditto, from a foetus at about the period of seven months of gestation. 46 Ditto, from a subject of about a year old, beautifully injected. 47 The sternum of a subject about twelve or fourteen years of age, showing the different portions of which it is composed. 48 Ditto, from a much younger subject, with the cartilages of the true ribs. 49 A very remarkable case of fracture of the sternum of an adult subject, viz. the same to which the bones of the fore-arm No. 68 Compartment O, and scapula No. 47 Compartment P, belonged. 50 A fine example of sternum, from an aged subject, showing anchylosis of the different portions, and ossification of the cartilago xiphoides.17 THIRD DATS SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 70 A very fine dried natural skeleton of a foetus between the eighth and ninth months of gestation, the right parietal bone is removed, demonstrating the injected dura mater and its various processes : in a bottle. 71 Ditto of a child soon after birth, the cranium of which appears to be somewhat hydrocephalic: in a bottle. 72 Ditto of a subject of about twelve or eighteen months old. 73 Ditto, somewhat older but not less interesting. Compartment U. Pathology, chiefly appertaining to the female sexual organs ; viz. carcinomatous tumors, cancer uteri, with numerous examples of human and comparative monstrosity. 1 Anomalous. 2 Tumor, doubtful. 3 Tumor, dissected, from the scalp. 4 Ditto. 5 Doubtful. 6 An immense congregation of verrucae covering the labia externa pudendi, which were extirpated with the disease j by Richard Simmons, Esq. 7 A steatomatous tumor. 8 Ditto, larger. 9 A specimen of morbid affection, doubtful, 10 Anomalous. 11 A steatomatous tumor. 12 Ditto. 13 Ambiguous. 14 A large ficiform tumor, extirpated from one of the labia externa. 15 Ambiguous. 16 Ditto. 17 A membrane dried and immersed in oil of turpentine,-~ambiguous. 18 A tumor of a very peculiar aspect, and of uncertain nature ? 19 Several scrofulous tumors. 20 A specimen of disease, its real nature doubtful. 21 A large steatomatous tumor. 22 Ditto. 23 A scirrhous breast, extirpated by — Brodie, lisq. 24 Two tumors connected together, being of a peninsular figure. 25 A scirrhous tumor extirpated from the breast, having that peculiar aspect re- marked by the late Dr. Adams, as though the interior consisted of cryptae replete with minute hydatides, causing cancer. 26 A diseased mamma, exhibiting the horrible ravages produced by carcinomatous ulceration. 27 A large steatomatous tumor. 28 A tumor arising from the skin, divided to show its internal structure. 29 A fine specimen of scirrhous affection of the female breast: extirpated by Sir Anthony Carlisle. DFOURTH DAY’S SALE. THURSDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. £DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment U. coniinued. LOT 30 A very remarkable disease partially surrounding large blood vessels : ambi- guous. 31 An interesting specimen of scirrhous affection of the breast: extirpated by Wm. Lynn, Esq. 32 A singular scirrhous tumor extirpated, from the breast. 33 Ditto. {34 A specimen of dreadful carcinomatous ulceration of the female breast. 35 A scirrhous tumor, of the breast extirpated by Mr. Brookes. 36 Ditto : extirpated by — VVheateley, Esq. 37 Ditto : extirpated by the same gentleman. 38 An example of a scirrhous tumor of the breast; extirpated bv — White, Esq. 39 Ditto. 40 Several steatomatous tumors, having a peculiar appearance. C41 A specimen, exhibiting the dreadful ravages produced by carcinomatous ulce- i ration. ^42 A specimen of scirrhous affection of the breast. 43 A preparation of a dreadful case of cancer uteri, with the bladder attached. 44 Doubtful ? 45 A preparation exhibiting a case of cancerous affection of the uterus, to which the bladder is attached. 46 Ditto, being a very distinct specimen of cancer uteri, in which two-thirds of the organ from its orifice towards the fundus are destroyed by the depascent ulceration. In this preparation the ureters are seen very much enlarged, and injected, also one of the spermatic arteries j the ovaria, fimbriae, and Fallo- pian tubes are well displayed : the whole exhibiting a striking example of the ravages of this dreadful disease, a great portion of the bladder being also destroyed. Presented by — Uppom, Esq. 47 Another example of that dire disease cancer uteri, showing its extensive ra- vages into the rectum. N.B. In this preparation the bladder is not affected. 48 Ditto, in which the rectum is, like the preceding preparation, dreadfully ulce- rated, but not the bladder. 49 Another uncommonly fine specimen of cancer uteri. Comparative Monsters. LOT 50 A specimen of a double-bodied but monocephalous foetal puppy : stuffed, and in a bottle. 51 A tetrapedal chicken. 52 A bicipital kitten : in spirits. 53 Ditto. 54 An acephalous puppy. 55 A tetrapedal duckling. 56 A small, but most extraordinary species of acerebral monstrosity; a dried skeleton. 57 A monstrous chicken, with the egg from which it was about to be excluded. Pre- sented by P. Guichard, Esq. 58 A double-bodied chicken. 59 A chicken with two mouths and three eyes. Presented by Nathl. Pointer, Esq. 60 A double-bodied kitten, with a defective head.FOURTH DAY’S SALE. \J)uty to be paid by the Purchaser!] LOT 61 A bicephalous snake. Presented by C. A. Tulk, Escj. 62 A bicephalous kitten. 63 An acephalous rabbit. 64 A double-bodied chicken. 65 A beautiful specimen of a foetal kitten, minutely injected, showing the thoracic and abdominal viscera in situ naturali, and the very extraordinary cestus ca- tulinus (placenta) appertaining to this animal, injected \ and an omphalo- mesenteric vessel. 66 A monstrous puppy, wanting the face. 67 A double-bodied kitten. 68 Ditto. 69 Ditto. 70 Ditto, being at the same time a monoculus. 71 A double-bodied kitten. 72 A double-bodied puppy, stuffed. 73 A double-headed kitten. 74 A double-bodied kitten. 75 A tetrapedal chicken, stuffed. 76 A double-bodied kitten. 77 A double-headed and double-tailed shark. Presented by Aitkins, Esq., Surgeon, R. N. Fliiman Monsters. LOT 78 A most extraordinary specimen of a human caudated foetus at the full period, born without inferior extremities, of which there was a cast contained in the Model-room, and a drawing to be seen in the Picture-room, No. 79 An acerebral foetus furnished with a large tumor superseding the brain. 80 A ditto, at eight months, without the tumor j the whole of the vessels of wdiich are injected, exhibiting the thoracic and extra-abdominal viscera, showing at the same time the very diminutive glandulse suprarenales so peculiar to this species of human monstrosity. 81 A most remarkable foetus at the period of nine months, having arms and legs, with its placenta attached to the lower part of the thorax j—an unique specimen. 82 An uncommonly fine example ofacyclops (a foetus at nine months) whose nose is placed above its eye and formed into a proboscis. 83 The head of a monstvous pig, having a fissured palate. Compartment V. Pathology; chiefly appertaining to the female subject, human mon- sters, some comparative preparations, &c. LOT {1 A preparation of some organ in a morbid state,^ambiguous. 2 Condylomata, a very fine specimen. ^ 3 An organ in a morbid state,—doubtful ? 4 Verrucse from the labium externum. V 5 A small tumor. {6 Ambiguous. 7 A cancerous tumor, extirpated from a lady’s breast by Mr. Brookes. 8 An injected membrane,—doubtful, f 9 Two small tumors,—doubtful. J 10 A very small twin egg from an ordinary fowl, some^vhat analogous to a case of 1 superfoetation in common parlance. L 11 Two small tumors,—doubtful. D 220 FOURTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.] LOT ✓ 12 A minute tumor,—doubtful. J 13 A fine view of the body of a hen, exhibiting a beautiful series of all the ova, the oviductus, calices, and one egg, the external involucrum of which being still in a membranous state, occupying the vagina. 14 Ditto, showing several calices expanded, as well as the fimbria and termination of the oviductus in the vagina, which contains an egg covered by its calca- reous shell 5 also exhibiting the cloaca expanded. pl5 The body of the celebrated parrot universally known, formerly the property of j the late Colonel O’Kelly, of which the oviductus contains a defective egg : ^ —presented by Dr. Kennedy. I 16 Two beautiful ova from the snake, contained in the oviductus, with an interest- ing view of a multitude of cryptse as yet unoccupied, r 17 Five comparative foetuses, contained within their involucra, probably from the cat. 18 The ova of a large marine turtle, minutely injected and contained within the C oviductus. rl9 A double egg, similar in appearance to a double-headed shot. J 20 Diminutive twin eggs, one deformed. |_21 The egg of a large marine turtle. r22 An egg the interior of which presents a remarkable phaenomenon, viz. it contains J another of diminutive size within its shell. )_23 The egg of a large tortoise. 24 A beautiful and minutely injected specimen of the secundines of an animal. ( 25 Two eggs of a large tortoise. J 26 A fine specimen of a minutely injected membrane appertaining to the uterine ^ system. p27 The uterus of a rabbit laid open, exhibiting a multitude of carunculse in its j interior, and in one of its Fallopian tubes a large hydatid cyst is formed J with the animal to which it appertains. N.B. The bladder is preserved in ] situ naturali, showing its strong muscular fibres. j 28 A section of the membranous uterus of an animal, showing a high degree of inflammation : probably from the sow. 29 A membrane very much inflamed and covered with coagulating lymph: pro- bably a case of epiploitis. 30 A most extraordinary case of polypus nasalis of a fibrous structure, of the mag- nitude and somewhat of the form of a large Windsor pear: extracted from a patient at the naval hospital. Deal, by Copeland Hutchinson, Esq,, by whom the tumor was presented to Mr. Brookes. 31 A very beautiful specimen of omentum highly inflamed, the arteries and veins of which are minutely injected : dried on blue paper and immersed in oil of turpentine. 32 An adult uterus, in the interior of which the penniform rugse are very distinctly seen j posteriorly, its cavity is much contracted j a portion of the vagina re- mains, showing its lateral rugas : the Fallopian tubes and fimbriee are beau- tifully displayed; bristles are introduced into the former; both the ovaria are also extremely distinct, having a very obvious corpus luteum on the surface of one of those organs. 33 A case of a morbid uterus affected in its interior and on its posterior surface, as well as both ovaria, with scrofula. 34 A beautifully injected preparation of the uterus of a subject somewhat ad- vanced in years, laid open posteriorly, showing the Fallopian tubes, into which black bristles are introduced. The fimbriee are extremely well seen ; the ovaria are also very obvious, having a crenated aspect: the vagina offers an interesting appearance of its numerous lateral rugae, by means of which this canal admits of occasional elongation. Anteriorly the ligamenta rotunda may be noticed as well as the bladder, of which a section has been made, showing the ureters having red bougies passed through them, and projecting into that organs the commencement of the urethra is likewise very distinct.FOURTH DAY^S SALE. 21 \I)uty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 35 A very large reniform steatomatous tumor; extirpated from a patient. 36 An unusual, indeed a perfectly anomalous disease of the uterus, having the semblance of a large congregation of hydatides. On the posterior surface of the organ there is a cyst that might contain a full-sized nutmeg. 37 An uncommon fine section of a breast, the tubuli galactophori of vrhich are injected with mercury. 38 An immense and very irregular tumor of a condylomatous nature, extirpated from the external organs of a female. 39 The termination of the rectum surrounded by a scirrhous tumor, with a multi- tude of carcinomatous excrescences contiguous to the anus. 40 A large tumor of an irregular and tuberculated appearance, or rather of an elephantine aspect: extirpated from the labium externum dextrum by Mr. Brookes. 41 Ditto. 42 A tumor, of a firm consistence. {43 Condylomata : extirpated by Mr, Brookes. 44 A large hydatid, from an ovarium. 45 A very fine specimen of the head of an acerebral foetus. 46 Ditto. 47 A natural skeleton of an entire acerebral foetus at about seven months of ges- tation. 48 A most extraordinary bodiless foetus, having only one inferior extremity issuing from the back of the thorax, with the placenta attached immediately beneath, 49 A singular and highly interesting specimen of foetal formation in the ovarium of an adult virgin, consisting of a large portion of a maxillary bone, con- taining many teeth of nearly their mature size, a globular steatomatous tumor (divided) about the size of a small orange, from which several locks of beautiful auburn hair are seen issuing. Further, several cysts are connected with the above, probably constituting an abortive placenta. Presented by Dr. Fergus McDonnel, physician to the forces. 50 The bust of a remarkable foetus, injected, having a very irregular and ano- malous tumor growing from its palate. 51 A fine hydrocephalic head of a young subject, the scalp of which is divided and dissected laterally, showing the extensive diastasis of the bones of the cranium and the extreme extension of their dura-materal connection : in spirits. 52 An acerebral foetus between the sixth and seventh month of gestation, injected and dissected, the glandulae suprarenales of which are scarcely obvious. 53 A most extraordinary double-bodied foetus, at about the period of seven months, having but one head: presented by Mons. Lassus. 54 A very fine specimen of a double foetus (bicipital) at about the seventh month, with labia leporina ; in many respects analogous to the Siamese youths, 55 A very remarkable foetus at about the period of six months, having one abor- tive arm not quite an inch in length issuing from the left shoulder. The thoracic viscera are exhibited in situ naturali, and the abdominal covered by the peritonaeum. 56 A unique foetal production, consisting of an individual at about the period of nine months, born without either head, arms, or thorax. The abdomen is exposed and dissected, demonstrating the continuation of the vena umbili- calis, and a paucity of intestines having neither liver, stomach, nor glandulae suprarenales, but the kidneys are very obvious and large. N. B. The mother was delivered by Dr. Boys, whose house pupil, Mr. Travis, presented this singular uterine phaenomenon to Mr. Brookes. 57 A monstrous foetus at about seven months, whose extremities are pinnated. 58 A very beautiful specimen of a foetus at the period of six months, born with a hare-lip, a tumor on the right foot, and defective toes. 59 A foetus at nine months of gestation, wdiose abdominal parietes are simply peritonseal, and having a transposition of both the thoracic and abdominal viscera. The heart, for instance, j)rojects into the right side of the thorax.FOURTH DAY’S SALE. 22 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT and the liver occupies a very considerable part of the left epigastric region, the caecum caput coli and appendix vermiformis caeci, (which last organ is extremely obvious), are situated on the left side. There are also four spleens. Presented by the late Dr. Thynne. 60 An uncommonly fine and perfectly unique bicipital foetus at the full period of gestation, injected, having two hearts, which with the corresponding vessels and all the abdominal viscera were dissected and displayed by John Sheldon, Esq. P.A. A cast of this singular specimen was in the Model-room, and a very fine portrait in oil, painted by — Wheatley, Esq. R.A., as also a series of drawings of the viscera, are in the Picture-room. N.B. The mother of this extraordinary phaenomenon was delivered by Dr. Kennedy, by whose son. Colonel Kennedy, the preparation was presented to Mr. Brookes. 61 A fine hydrocephalic foetus at the full period of gestation ; the thoracic and ex- tra-abdominal viscera are injected and dissected, exhibiting at the same time a view of the sinus venosus and glandulae suprarenales. 62 A singular foetus at the full period of gestation, having an immense cere- bral tumor occupying the anterior part of its head, a proboscidiform nose, and umbilicus perfectly cicatrized, appearing never to have had any com- munication whatever with the funis umbilicalis j but a large and well- formed placenta, with a diminutive and useless funis attached thereto, ema- nates from the posterior part of the cerebral organ. N. B, This unprece- dented foetal production may possibly throw a gleam of light on that most extraordinary case detailed by the late Dr. Mason Good, who attended a fe- male in parturition, the umbilicus of whose child was perfectly corresponding to this individual, but having a placenta totally distinct from the infant. His account was read before the Medical Society in Bolt Court, but from the scepticism that prevailed among the majority of the members of the Council, the publication was negatived. 63 An uncommonly large acerebral foetus, weighing upwards of twelve pounds, the whole of the thoracic and extra-abdominal viscera of which are injected and dissected. In this gigantictuterine production the sinus venosus, con- tinued from the vena umbilicalis to the vena cava abdominalis, as well as its other communication with the vena porta, are admirably seen, as also its very diminutive glandulee suprarenales. Presented by Mrs. Briant, formerly matron of St. James’s Infirmary, where this foetus was born. Compartment W. A Miscellaneous collection of Pathological Subjects and various Organs, particularly those of Generation, both external and internal, in the female. LOT 1 Several nasal polypi : extracted by — Wheateley, Esq. 2 Ditto, much larger. 3 A small calculus from the Whartonian duct (submaxillary). 4 Four ditto. 5 Four calculi from the Riverian ducts (sublingual). 6 Three ditto from the Stenonian duct (parotid). 7 A verj'^ large nasal polypus: extracted by — Wheateley, Esq. 8 A prodigiously large nasal polypus; removed by incision by — Wheateley, Esq. in consultation with the late Mr. Ramsden: for the accomplishment of this operation Mr. Wheateley invented a bistoury cachee, having been foiled in several previous essays for the extirpation of this tumor by the forceps and additional aid of Mr. Ramsden. (Vide the case published by Mr. Wheateley). 9 A large calculus from the Stenonian duct. 10 A beautiful specimen of the parotid gland, the vessels of which are injected red,FOURTH DAY’S SALE. 23 {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser,'] LOT the Stenonian duct and salivary ramifications with mercury : dried on paper, and immersed in oil of turpentine. ] 1 Ditto. 12 A large morbid tonsil gland: extirpated by ligature. 13 A polypus nasi: extracted with forceps. Presented by — Wheateley, Esq. 14 Ditto, larger. 15 Ditto. 16 A very remarkable calculus, removed from the Stenonian duct and presented by — Cooper, Esq. 17 An interesting specimen of the external ear; the parotid gland and socia pa- rotidis, the Stenonian duct and all the contiguous vessels are injected of various colours, the masseter muscle is retained, for the purpose of showing all these interesting parts in situ naturali. 18 A section of the head and face, showing the different meatuses of the nose, the Schneiderian membrane, the opening of the sinus pituitarius frontalis and that of the ductus ad nasum, as well as the tuba Eustachiana, through which a quill has been passed ; the other extremity of which is perceptible in the cavitas tympani. The interior of the several sinuses pituitarii, maxillaris, sphenoidalis, and frontalis, is also exposed to view. 19 An uncommonly beautiful display, in a longitudinal direction, of the olfactory organ, minutely injected in a rabbit; affording at the same time a distinct view of one of the dentes incudes, found only in leporine animals. 20 A very finely injected septum nasi. 21 A section of the nose from an individual afflicted with fistula lachrymalis, show- I ing the saccus lachrymalis in an inflamed state, the termination of the I ductus ad nasum, through which a black bristle is introduced, with the ! ossa turbinata covered by the Schneiderian membrane: minutely injected. I 22 Ditto, extremely beautiful. I 23 A part of an ulcerated septum nasi from a glandered horse, j 24 A septum nasi in the human subject, having a very large circular perforation through it. j 25 Ditto, very minutely injected, dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. I 26 Ditto : in spirits. I 27 Ditto : in oil of turpentine. 28 A fine example of the whole of the internal female organs; the interior of the uterus is exposed by a longitudinal section, showing the openings of the Fallopian tubes, into which bristles are introduced, the penniform rugae are also seen, as well as the os uteri and the lateral rugae of the vagina; the ligamenta rotunda uteri, and of the ovaria, on the posterior surfaces of which last-mentioned organs there are faint traces of the ovula Graaffiana: the Fallopian tubes and fimbriae are all displayed, with a portion of the bladder, ureters, and their terminations are very obvious, also the orifice of the urethra, through which a quill is passed.FIFTH DAY’S SALE. FRIDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment W. continued. LOT ^9 A uterus extensively affected with scrofula ; also exhibiting a very fine view of the os uteri and a portion of the vagina. 30 A portion of the gravid uterus of a quadruped. 31 A very large ficiform tumor: extirpated from one labium externum pudendi by Mr. Brookes. 32 A congeries of ossifications on the Fallopian tube. 33 A section of the ovarium, showing the ovula Graaffiana, the fimbria, and Fal- lopian tube, into which a bristle is introduced. i 34 The uterus opened by a longitudinal section. ^ 35 A tumor somewhat ambiguous ? 36 An injected preparation of the uterus and its appendages, with the bladder, ureters, and rectum of a monkey: a dried and highly interesting specimen. 37 A hymen from a young subject. 38 The uterus opened longitudinally, exhibiting a small polypus and the penni- form rugaf?. 39 The bladder, the uterus, and appendages, in a state of malformation. 40 A beautiful example of omentum, the arteries and veins of which are filled with differently coloured injections. 41 A large section of a gravid uterus, for the purpose of demonstrating the thick- ness of its parietes and strong muscular fibres, 42 A portion of the placenta of a sheep, showing its beautiful cotyledones. 43 The human placenta and membranes, minutely injected, on the funis apper- taining to which the nerves were first discovered by Sir Everard Home and Mr. Bauer in the year 1825, as certified by Sir E. Home on the covering * of the preparation.—For a description of these nerves vide Phil. Trans, of the same year. 44 A portion of the omentum majus affected with epiploitis. 45 A beautiful specimen of a membranous placenta from a quadruped, minutely injected. 46 A section of the nose of a young subject, minutely injected. f 47 A fine example of a cotyledon from the secundines of a cow, minutely in- I jected. ^48 Ditto, uninjected, f 49 Ditto, most minutely injected. L50 A caruncula appertaining to the preceding cotyledon, equally well injected. 51 The hymen and external organs of a young subject. 52 Ditto, somewhat older, with an enlarged clitoris. 53 An extremely beautiful view of the external organs and hymen, admirably seen a posteriori. 54 The external organs and hymen of a subject advancing towards puberty. 55 56 A very fine display of an injected clitoris and its crura, with the external organs. 57 The external organs of a matron. 58 The external organs of a virgin, together with the whole of the internal, affording at the same time a view of the interior of the uterus, the termi- nations of the Fallopian tubes ; the vagina is divided longitudinally, with a bougie passed through the cervix uteri: a view of the bladder, rectum, &c. 59 An uncommon fine exhibition of the hymen in the adult. 60 Ditto, from a younger subject, with all the internal organs ; exhibiting an interesting view of the os uteri, bladder, &c. &c.FIFTH DAY^S SALE. ^25 \I)uty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] lot 61 An admirable specimen of the external organs and hymen of a subject about the age of puberty. 62 The whole of the external and internal organs of a virgin at the age of ado- lescence, highly satisfactorily and admirably displayed; affording by a lateral view the interior of the vagina and uterus, with their relation to each other: further, there are obvious traces of ovula Graaffiana. 63 A choice specimen of a hymen from a subject at the period of puberty. The external and internal organs, affording an interesting view of a case of prolapsus uteri. 65 The external organs of a matron. 66 A very unusual and fine example of polypus, growing from the interior of the fundus uteri. In this remarkable case the uterus appears to be divided into two parts. 67 A most elaborate preparation, (contained in a globe,) comprising the gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, with the foetus, funis and pla- centa, all connected and very minutely injected ; as well as a considerable portion of the vagina, from which the os uteri is admirably seen. The bladder and urethra are also well injected and preserved in situ naturali. 68 An interesting specimen of the skeleton of a foetus at the full period of ' gestation, precisely in the form of a natural presentation at the time of parturition. 69 An illustration of a dreadful case of cancer uteri, in which the ravages of that dire disease have dest^oj^ed above half of the organ, and formed ex- tensive ulcerations into the rectum. 70 An extraordinary case of a considerable enlargement of a Fallopian tube, pro- bably the nidus of an ovum, with the uterus and ovarium in a morbid state. 71 Cancer uteri, of which this specimen is a most deplorable illustration. 72 A large tumor appertaining to the uterus, but somewhat obscure. 73 A very large fibrous tumor in the interior of the uterus, the cervix of which is extremely elongated, and the os uteri very obvious, with a distinct cof” pus luteum on the surface of one of the ovaria. 74? A superb specimen of a minutely injected uterus and vagina at about ten days or a fortnight post partum. The interior of the organ to which the placenta was attached, presents an interesting view of its vascular surface : bristles are introduced into the openings of the Fallopian tubes, the fimbrite are very minutely injected, and one ovarium is divided; the bladder retains its natural situation. 75 A dreadful but at the same time highly interesting specimen of inversio uteri, occasioned by violently extracting the placenta immediately after the birth of the child, and causing death from haemorrhage. 76 A section of a uterus, containing a very considerable tumor of a fibrous nature. 77 A splendid preparation of a minutely injected placenta. 78 A morbid uterus extensively affected with scrofula, and having also a large hydrops ovarii, with an interesting view of the os uteri. 79 A cast from nature of a uterus ruptured at its cervix at the full period of gestation : the whole trunk of the subject and all the abdominal viscera with the uterus, had been previously injected with great accuracy, and the sanguiferous systems distinguished by appropriate colours. In this splendid illustration, the whole of the chylopoetic viscera are removed, for the purpose of showing the lacerated uterus more advantageously, as well as the extra-abdominal viscera, with the liver and biliary system; one os innorainatum has been detached, with the intent of affording a more accu- rate display of the relative situation of the bladder, vagina, and rectum. 80 A very fine cast of the external organs of generation, moulded from a mature virgin, exhibiting the vestibulum veneris, hymen, clitoris, &c. E26 FIFTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be jpaid by the Purchaser.1 Compartment X. Y. Z. LOT 1 An eye, with the membrana nictitans (a sheep). 2 A very fine specimen of extreme luxuriant growth of the nails of the foot of the human subject. 3 The bones of a foetal lamb contained in the ovarium. 4 A very fine specimen of scrofulous tumors of the ligamentum latum, with one Fallopian tube, fimbria, ovarium, and ligamentum rotundum ovarii. 5 A preparation of a young foetus (extra uterine) contained within the Fallo- pian tube (from a sheep). 6 An interesting example of uterus ten days or a fortnight post partum : from a patient who died of haemorrhage in consequence of the retention of a consi- derable portion of the placenta, which still remains adherent to the left side of the organ, the parietes at that part are much thickened. In this re- markable case the uterus appears to be contracted somewhat above its cer- vix, by which occurrence probably the practitioner was induced into error, and thus inadvertently caused the fatal catastrophe. The ovaria. Fallopian tubes, and fimbriae, are also well seen in this preparation. Presented by Thomas Wheateley, Esq. 7 A fine illustration of cancer uteri affecting the orifice and cervix of the organ, which are in an extensive fungous state. From a patient under the care of Dr. Kennedy, and presented by his son Captain Kennedy. 8 A specimen of morbid uterus, laid open posteriorly for the purpose of showing a small polypus in its interior towards the cervix j black bristles are intro- duced into the Fallopian tubes j a lateral section has been made in the blad- der, showing the termination of one ureter and the commencement of the urethra : there is a small scrofulous tumor attached to the anterior part of the fundus uteri, and other obscure traces of disease. 9 A beautiful preparation of a uterus from the adult, the interior of which is ex- posed posteriorly, showing an incipient polypus just above its cervix: the various internal appendages to the organ are well seen : both ovaria are divided, in one of which a tolerably large corpus luteum may be observed 3 there is also a view of the inner surface of a contracted bladder, with the ter- minations of the ureters and beginning of the urethra. N.B. This and the preceding preparation afford excellent illustrations of cases of polypus uteri admitting the application of ligature. 10 A fine instance of decidua uteri covering the whole of the interior of the organ, at about the third month of pregnancy. The ovaria. Fallopian tubes, «&c. are all connected to the preparation. Presented by Thos. Wheateley, Esq. 11 An extremely rare specimen of a double human uterus and vagina, with the ovaria, Fallopian tubes, and fimbriae, the nymphse, &c. Purchased at’the sale of the late Thomas Young, Esq. 12 A virgin uterus and appendages, from a subject about eighteen years of age (she committed suicide by submersion). The Fallopian tubes, fimbriae and ovaria are all well seen, with an obscure appearance of a corpus luteum on the surface of one of the latter organs: there is also an interesting view of the openings of the Fallopian tubes into the uterus with its penniform rugae, as well as the relative situation of the os uteri in the upper part of the va- gina : the rectum is retained, and the whole minutely injected. Presented by — Gilder, Esq. 13 A very fine example of the adult uterus with its appendages : bristles are intro- duced into the Fallopian tubes at their fimbriated extremities 3 a portion of the bladder remains, affording a view of the urethra. 14 An excellent preparation of morbid uterus and its appendages, affected wkh scrofulous inflammation: the interior of the organ, however, appears to be suffused with decidua: there is likewise an interesting view of the os uteri projecting into the upper part of the vagina.FIFTH DAY’S SALE. 27 [Duty io be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 15 A useful illustration of cancer uteri in its incipient state, the upper part of the vagina and os uteri being the only parts affected with this deplorable ma- lady : the bladder, however, appears to have suffered from the effects of the disease in consequence of its juxtaposition, as is very obvious by a view of its interior surface 3 one ovarium is also affected. 16 A uterus, post partum, which became ruptured during labour, as may be seen by a bougie passed through the apertures in one of its cornua : from a cat. Presented by H. Bond, Esq. 17 A uterus laid open, and exhibiting three small but very distinct polypi. 18 Ditto, having only one small but particularly distinct polypus. The penniform rug06 are admirably seen in this preparation. 19 A most interesting example of hydrops tubae Fallopianae: the uterus and one ovarium are also preserved. 21 A very fine specimen of a foetus at about the period of seven months, contained in its secundines. The amnion, chorion and decidua chorii, are all extremely well seen, as well as the vascular part of the placenta. Presented by Na- thaniel Pointer, Esq. 22 The bust of a child on whose left carotid artery a ligature was applied by Mr. Wardrop for the purpose of arresting the progress of a case of fungus hae- matodes of considerable magnitude, occupying the same side of the head and face. Presented by Mr. Wardrop. 23 The gravid uterus from a Parisian lady at the full period of gestation : in con- sequence of prseternatural presentation, it became necessary to turn the foetus, and deliver by the feet, during which operation the os uteri be- came lacerated, which was succeeded by sloughing, and ultimately death. 24 A specimen of one of the most interesting and extensive instances of cys- titis that perhaps ever occurred, arising from a case of retroversio uteri. The bladder extended above the umbilicus and contained more than two quarts of urine ; the whole of the interior of the organ is beautifully suffused with pendulous filaments of coagulable lymph: on the posterior surface of the preparation the foetus with its placenta are seen in the interior of the uterus, lined with its decidua,—minutely injected, as indeed are the whole of the vessels: one ovarium is cut through and exhibits a corpus luteum j the fimbria and ovarium of the same side presents an unusually vascular appear- ance. The vagina is divided through its whole length, showing its rugae, the os uteri projecting into its upper, and the termination of the urethra at its anterior part: the spermatic and uterine vessels are injected, red bougies introduced into the ureters, and the transverse arch of the colon preserved, showing the ascent of the bladder and the relative situation of the organs: the chorion and amnion are separated, for the purpose of ex- hibiting the foot and some other parts of the foetus. The unfortunate fe- rpale was sacrificed by the medical attendant neglecting (in consequence of a stilieidium) to pass the catheter twice per diem, according to Mr. Brookes’s advice. 25 A congeries of schirrous tumors of the breast; extirpated from a patient, with the nipple and part of the integuments. 26 The half of a very deep-seated cyst which contained almost a pint of pus, situated in the nates of a female patient, fronn whom it was removed by Thomas Wheateley, Esq. in consultation with Mr. Brookes. N.B. There are two cicatrices in the integuments, and through an immense thickness of fat, penetrating the cyst, the results of former unsuccessful operations. 27 A schirrous breast: extirpated by Mr. Brookes. 28 A section of a minutely injected gravid uterus, beautifully exhibiting the de- cidua. 29 A large tunaor situated within the uterus and extending into the vagina: one ovarium is much enlarged; the Fallopian tubes, fimbrias, and ligamenta ro- tunda are also well seen. 30 A case of riqiture of the bladder into the cellular inembrare above the os E 228 FIFTH DAY'S SALE. [Duty io he paid by the Purchnset'^ LOT pubis^ forming a very considerable tumor, and occasioning the death of the patient: the uterus and its appendages both external and internal are also preserved. 31 The gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, containing the foetus and secundines; the bladder is also preserved, supported by the urachus. 32 A section of a considerable tumor in the interior of the uterus. 33 An interesting specimen of a double foetal pig, having only one funis umbili- calis, but two distinct hearts, aortae, &c. (injected and dissected) at the full period of gestation. 34< An unusual specimen of triple placenta, injected, showing clearly the three receptacles which contained corresponding foetuses. Presented by Richard Simmons, Esq. 35 A fine preparation of a gravid uterus containing a foetus at about eight months of utero-gestation; the membranes are open, to show the foetus in a na- tural presentation ; a longitudinal section of the vagina has been made for the purpose of exhibiting an interesting view of the os uteri somewhat di- lated but occupied by the gelatinous secretion from the glandulae Nabothi. The Fallopian tubes, fimbriae, and ovaria are also well seen, the latter being divided. N.B. The whole preparation is well injected. 36 An extraordinary case of dropsy of the left Fallopian tube of great mag- nitude, containing a multitude of irregular tumors, some of immense size. The uterus, vagina, bladder, and all contiguous organs are preserved in their natural situation. 37 A case of immensely large hydrops ovarii: this extraordinary tumor con- tained several gallons of fluid, and is an example of that peculiar species where the disease is formed of only one cyst. In the interior there are several large tumors attached to various parts, somewhat resembling the carunculse of the pregnant cow. Strange as it may appear, the nature of this case was altogether mistaken. 38 The identical ruptured uterus taken from a patient who was attended by the late Dr. Blegborough,—the case was published in the Med. and Phys. Journal; the bladder, rectum, and all contiguous organs are preserved, as also the foetus with its placenta: the laceration is in the cervix uteri infe- riorly and posteriorly : on opening the abdomen Mr. Brookes found the child among the viscera. The cast (Compartment W. No. 80) was moulded from this preparation under the inspection of Mr. Brookes, who had previously injected the subject from which it was taken. 39 Another fine example of ruptured uterus occurring in the practice of Richard Simmons, Esq. and obtained from a female who had previously borne se- veral children : the laceration took place anteriorly and laterally; the pa- tient died instantly of haemorrhage. Mr. Brookes was applied to for the purpose of performing the Caesarean operation, which unfortunately proved unsuccessful. The Fallopian tubes, fimbriae, ovaria, and bladder, are all preserved in their natural situation. , -■M) A beautiful specimen of the placenta of the ass; minutely injected, the arte- ries red and the veins black. 41 A very fine and highly interesting specimen of a foetus at the full period of gestation, contained in the uterus, both of which with the placenta are minutely injected. The unfortunate young female was from peculiar cir- cumstances lying on an iron bedstead during a night in the month of Au- gust, when a dreadful thunder-storm occurred, accompanied b}^ almost continued vivid flashes of lightning by which she was literally terrified to death. This preparation was obtained through the friendship of — Webb, Esq. Cold Bath Fields. 42 A fourth case of ruptured uterus at the full period of gestation, obtained from a young married lady. In this case the laceration occurred in the cervix uteri on its left side, and somewhat anteriorly. This sinister cir-FIFTH DAY’S SALE. 2 9 3 A considerable scirrhous tumor dissected from the breast. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser,~\ LOT cumstance took place in the practice of Dr. Clough, and during a consul- tation with Mr. Royston. A cast of the body of the individual, showing the fcetus amidst the abdominal viscera, was made under the inspection of Mr. Brookes, and was contained in the Model-room. 43 An enormous and most extraordinary case of hydrops ovarii. Presented by James Brookes, Esq. 44 A dreadful case of complete inversion of the uterus immediately post partum, produced by the forcible extraction of the placenta, and occasioning im- mediate death by hfemorrhage. The organ itself and contiguous parts are all well injected. N.B. A very fine cast of the trunk of this subject was contained in the Model-room. 45 An immense morbid uterus to which several large tumors are attached. 46 An uncommonly fine preparation of the gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, opened on one side to show the fcetus and its membranes, and on the other the situation and attachment of the placenta. All the vessels of this fine preparation are filled with appropriately coloured injections. 47 A case of large hydrops ovarii, dried, varnished, and contained in a bottle. 48 An extra-uterine fcetus, consisting of little more than its bones, which were found in a cyst in the lower part of the abdomen, connected with one of the ovaria. The lady was attended by Dr. Sims at the period of partu- rition, but the uterine efforts proving abortive, her pregnancy was con- tinued for two years afterwards, when she died. The body being inspected by Mr. Wheateley, the fcetus was found as already described, and was pre- sented by that gentleman to Mr. Brookes. 49 A case of inversio uteri, which occurred at the first accouchement of a young married lady, from the intemperance of an accoucheuse, by which a fatal hasmorrhage was produced. Compartment CE. Anatomy and Pathology. 1 A beautiful and minutely injected preparation of the tongue, showing the papillcE maxima?, fungiformes, and villosa?, with the velum pendulum pa- lati, pharynx, and part of the oesophagus; the larynx with the ventriculi laryngis, part of the trachea and chordae vocales; the three sets of sali- vary organs, viz. parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands, with the lower jaw and its interarticular cartilages, are all preserved. 2 A dreadful case of laceration of the lower part of the arm ; fracture of the inferior portion of the fore-arm ; the skin, subjacent muscles, other or- gans, and the hand are very much torn, clearly exhibiting a case requir- ing immediate amputation. 3 The ganglion cervicale superius, medium, and inferius. 4 An uncommonly fine case of anthrax situated between the shoulders ; ob- tained through the kindness of — Millington, Esq. Foley Place. 6 The hand of a lady who was an inhabitant of Valenciennes when that city was besieged by the British forces under the command of H. R. H. the Duke of York; the carpus is in a carious state, in consequence of its having been struck by a fragment of an exploded bomb, and after eleven years of suffering and temporizing she very reluctantly submitted to an unavoidable amputation. 6 An adult foot dissected for the ligaments, 7 An adultJoot, from a Lascar: the leg had been amputated for caries of the metatarsal bones and phalanges digitorum ! Quere, Why not the diseased portion of the foot only between the os calcis and cnboides, (he astragalus and naviculare ? 8 An example of a large encysted tumor dissected from the back,30 FIFTH DAY’S SALK' [Duty to be paid by the Purchaier,'] LOT 10 A large extirpated steatomatous tumor. 11 Ditto, much larger, from the back of the neck. 12 An interesting specimen of bisected morbid knee-joint from an amputated limb. 13 A foot from a limb amputated in consequence of mortification of the toes. That interesting line of demarcation formed by the absorption of the sane from the morbid parts, so decidedly pointing out the time after which an operation may with propriety be performed, is admirably seen in this pre- paration, in consequence of the foot being minutely injected. The ope- ration was performed and the limb presented by Wm. Lynn, Esq. 14 A foot from a limb amputated in consequence of caries of the tarsus. 15 An unusually large and morbid congregation of lymphatic glands surrounding the whole of the cervical organs, part of the heart and sinus aortas, com- pressing and obstructing the cesophagus, so as wholly to prevent degluti- tion, and thus occasion death by starvation. 16 A foot from a limb amputated by Mr. Pott for caries of the tarsus. 17 A carious elbow-joint laid open, from an amputated limb. 18 An unusually fine specimen of morbid knee-joint, the interior of which is exposed to view, showing a high degree of unsubdued inflammation, for which the limb was amputated by Thomas Copeland, Esq. and presented by that gentleman to Mr. Brookes. 19 A most extraordinary and perfectly unique case of sloughing of a very con- siderable portion of the psoas magnus muscle ; from a private patient of Mr. Uppom’s, attended also by Mr. Brookes.—N.B. The patient re- covered. 20 A large steatomatous tumor; extirpated from the upper part of the back by Thomas Wheateley, Esq.SIXTH DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment A. U. Containing various portions of the Intestinal Canal (many very minutely injected), with numerous Pathological Subjects. LOT rl An injected specimen of intus-susceptio. 2 A minutely injected specimen of jejunum, in oil of turpentine, h 3 A portion of intestine injected. / 4 A specimen of minutely injected intestine, the vessels of which take a zig, y zag longitudinal direction ; and a caecum (comparative), j 5 A specimen of injected intestine ? doubtful. C 6 A specimen of mesenteric glands, ossified, {7 A specimen of morbid glandulae aggregatie. 8 A remarkable specimen of the colon replete with cellulae. Doubtful, i 9 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected portions of the small intestines^ from a yonng subject: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 10 A small section of minutely injected large intestine, showing the villi. 11 Ditto, somewhat larger: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. {12 A beautiful specimen of small intestine from a young subject, inverted, show- ing villi (uninjected). 13 A small portion of large intestine injected: in oil of turpentine. 14 A diverticulum ilei: dried, and in a bottle. 15 A most remarkable specimen of morbid arteries replete with strongili (ani- mals forming aneurisms in the ca;liac arteries of horses). {16 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected intestine: dried, and in oil of turpentine. 17 The stomach of the kingfisher (Alcedo hispida), 18 Ditto. 19 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected colon (inverted). 20 A diverticulum ilei injected ; from a young subject, 21 A portion of minutely injected intestinum ileum: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 22 The small intestines of a foetus, minutely injected; inverted, and in spirits. 23 A minutely injected specimen of prolapsus ani. 24 A singular and highly interesting specimen of cancer of the transverse arch of the colon. 25 The stomach of a corvorant (^Phalacrocorax Carbo.) 26 A specimen of the colon affected with dysentery. 27 A very large diseased mesenteric gland. 28 A beautiful specimen of the colon, showing the three longitudinal muscular bands and the appendicular epiploicae. 29 A portion of the ileum and colon, with the caecum; from a dog. 30 A most extraordinary specimen of peritoneum, one inch or more in thickness, the effect of inflammation. 31 A specimen of the stomach of a dog affected with rabies. 32 Several haemorrhoidal tumors, extirpated by Mr. Brookes. 33 The stomach of a wimbrel [Phceopus communis), 34 A large ossified mesenteric gland. 35 An interesting specimen of minutely injected intestinum ileum, the valvulae of which are very much diseased.SIXTH DAY’S SALE. S2 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 36 An Interesting specimen of schirrous affection of the valvula coli. N.B. This preparation exhibits this very rare disease most distinctly. 37 A case of schirrous affection of the rectum. 38 The rectum and anus; iha former to show its internal glandular structure the latter external haeraorrhoidal tumors. 39 An interesting but at the same time deplorable case of imperforated anus, from a female infant, in which the rectum terminates in a cul de sac two inches superior to the anus. Mr. Brookes operated in this case, by intro- ducing a hydrocele trocar from the depression at the anus towards the intes- tine, tumid with meconium : the instrument, however, passed through the vagina, occupying the concavity of the sacrum in the absence of the rec- tum ; occasioning an alarming but not fatal haemorrhage, unfortunately however without at all relieving the patient, who died a few days after- wards from rupture of the colon. (Contained in a bottle, No. 86, in the same compartment.) 40 A case of extensive schirrous affection of the transverse arch of the colon. Presented by John Andree, Esq. 41 A beautiful specimen of minutely injected intestinum ileum: dried, and im- mersed in oil of turpentine. 42 A preparation of intestine divided longitudinally. 43 A specimen of morbid intestine. 44 A beautiful specimen of morbid epiploic gland. 45 (Doubtful.) 46 A specimen of intestine divided longitudinally to show morbid glanduhe aggregates. 47 A specimen of intestine in a diseased state, demonstrating the villous coat. 48 A very fine specimen of schirrous affection of the colon. 49 A preparation of a part of the oesophagus of the ox. 50 A specimen of dysenteric intestine. 51 The penis of a drake, with the bursa Fabricii and cloaca. 52 Ossification of mesenteric glands. 53 A specimen of beautifully injected intestinum duodenum: dried, and immersed* in oil of turpentine. 54 A portion of the colon laid open to show its internal surface. 55 A preparation of a congregation of morbid mesenteric glands. 56 A tumor growing from the interior of the large intestine by a peduncle. 57 An interesting case of imperforated rectum, with the bladder and ossa pubis attached. 58 A portion of morbid colon. 59 A specimen of the transverse arch of the colon and omentum majus, injected : from a foetus. 60 A beautiful preparation of the intestinum ileum minutely injected by its veins: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. Cl An example of enteritis, consisting of a number of convolutions of the small intestines agglutinated, by the effusion of coagulable lymph. ‘ 62 A splendid example of very minutely injected and inverted small intestines, from a child. 63 A portion of the intestinum jejunum inflated and inverted, showing the val- vulae conniventes and the manner in which they are formed by duplicatures of the villous coat; the cellular tissue being also distended with air, demon- strates the preceding fact. 64 A fine example of minutely injected small intestine: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 65 A congregation of morbid and very much enlarged lumbar lymphatic glands surrounding the aorta. 66 A beautiful specimen of small intestine tlie vessels of which are injected with mercury.SIXTH DAY’S SALE. 3S {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] .OT 67 A fine preparation of intus-susceptio of the small intestine. 68 A specimen of minutely injected small intestine : dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 69 A portion of jejunum very much diseased, and laid open for the purpose of showing the morbid state of its interior. 70 An example of dysenteric intestine. 71 A beautiful illustration of minutely injected intestinum ileum; dried, and im- mersed in oil of turpentine. 72 A portion of rectum injected and inverted, demonstrating its glandular structure. 73 A small portion of the oesophagus of a turtle. 74> A specimen of the small intestine of a young subject, minutely injected, and inverted, to show villi. 75 A preparation of the lower part of the oesophagus of the ox, with a portion of the cardia. 76 Ditto of the turtle, minutely injected. 77 A splendid anatomical bijou, consisting of a most minutely injected portion of the jejunum, admirably demonstrating its beautiful villi. 78 A fine example of intus-susceptio of the colon, injected; showing the great extent of inflammation. 79 An uncommonly fine instance of hernia congenita in the adult, accompanied by the testis. 80 An interesting specimen of scirrhous pylorus. 81 An example of the effects of dysentery on the villous coat of the colon. Presented by Anthony White, Esq. :82 A specimen of jejunum, inverted and filled with spirit, showing its villi and valvulee conniventes. v 83 An example of an extraordinary morbid affection of the appendix vermi- formis cseci, the extremity of which is replete with small spherical tumors. 84? The stomach of the spoonbill {Platalea cristata). 85 The interior of a case of scrotal enterocele, in which the several convolu- tions of small intestines adhere inter se. 86 The colon, caecum, &c. of an infant who died of imperforated anus: several apertures are produced by the fatal distension of the intestine. (Vide No. 39 supra). 87 An example of inflammation terminating in mortification, in consequence of incarcerated hernia,—seen from the interior of the sac. 88 Ditto, less inflamed. 89 An example of diverticulum ilei from the adult subject. Presented by Dr. Hawkins. 90 A remarkable instance of enteritis, consisting of numerous convolutions of the small intestines, suffused with coagulable lymph, and all adhering inter se. 91 A case of cancer of the oesophagus; the trachea and its termination in the bronchi, with many morbid bronchial glands. 92 An interesting specimen of bronchocele, in which the right lobe of the thyroid gland is very much enlarged; and in consequence compressed the ceso- phagus so as to intercept deglutition, and thus produce death by starvation. 93 A case of rupture of the intestinum jejunum. 94? An interesting and extremely rare case of schirrous affection of the transverse arch of the colon. 95 A specimen of the effects of diarrhoea on the glandulae aggregatae. 96 A portion of colon, showing the effects of dysentery on its internal surface. 97 A case of intus-susceptio of the small intestines, with some remarkable appearances. 98 A case of dysenteric colon. 99 A considerable portion of small intestine compressedby stricture, from a case of incarcerated enterocele. F54 SIXTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser, LOT 100 The greater portion of the small intestines minutely injected. 101 A specimen of intestinum jejunum, showing ulceration of the glandule con- gregatae; many of the glandulae solitariae are enlarged: from a subject afflicted with diarrhcsa. 102 An interesting case of intus-susceptio of a very considerable portion of the colon ; laid open; exhibiting the extent of the inverted intestine. 103 An example of stricture of the rectum, the anus being much dilated for the purpose of seeing the disease. 104 A specimen of a case of fistula in ano: the bladder and rectum are both preserved, and bristles introduced into the sinuses; there are likewise some haemorrhoidal tumors at the verge of the anus. 105 A distressing case of fatal termination of intus-susceptio of the valvula coli, occurring in a child for whom Messrs. Wells were consulted. It ap- peared that the patient being feverish, and complaining to her mother, the latter hearing that antimonial wine was a good remedy for fever, administered half an ounce, which produced great irritation in the bowels, and caused the intus-susceptio and a high degree of inflammation ; the appearance of which is admirably exhibited in this uninjected preparation. 106 A considerable portion of minutely injected integuments of the leg in a state of extensive ulceration. 107 A portion of intestine laid open, showing extensive ulceration of the glan- dulae aggregatse of a patient who died of diarrhoea. 108 A case of imperforated rectum in a male subject on whom an unsuccessful operation had been performed. 109 An extraordinary case of schirrous rectum, in which the stricture has almost entirely obliterated the continuity of the canal: the bladder, &c. are also preserved. 110 A considerable portion of the colon much diseased. 111 An almost unexampled fine view of the glandulae solitariae morbidly enlarged, and of the glandulae aggregatae extensively ulcerated in a portion of the intestinum jejunum of a patient who died of diarrhoea. 112 A minutely injected hand from an adult arthritic patient, whose articulations are much enlarged in consequence of chalk stones: the cutaneous nerves at the back of the hand being somewhat minutely traced, tend to explain the cause of the extreme pain experienced in chiragra, produced by morbid extension of the nervous filaments. 113 An elaborate preparation exhibiting a specimen of bronchocele extending around both the trachea and oesophagus, which latter being completely compressed, the patient was destroyed from inanition: the os hyoides, larynx, trachea, oesophagus, and arteries of the neck are also preserved. 114 An extensive case of cancer of the rectum: the prostate gland is preserved, showing the relative situation of parts. 115 A specimen of bubonocele in the adult (enterocele). The tunica vaginalis is laid open, showing the testis &c. in situ naturali. 116 An extensive case of epiploitis 117 An elaborate specimen of epiplocele in a case of hernia congenita: from an adult subject. 118 A specimen of a considerable portion of the jejunum, showing extensive ulceration of the glandulae aggregatae, an enlargement of a few of the glandulae solitariae: from a patient who died of diarrhoea. 119 The integuments and interior of a very large phlegnionous abscess.SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. F 9. TUESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment E. TJ. Consisting chiefly of Stomachs human and comparative, sane and morbid; with many cases of Hernia, some particularly interesting. LOT 1 A foetal stomach minutely injected: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine. 2 Ditto at an earlier period. 3 The stomach of a parrot, in ;spirits.^ 4 The cuticular lining of ditto. 5 A portion of the stomach of a ruminant animal (reticulum). 6 A portion of an ulcerated stomach. Presented by Dr. Yates (Brighton). 7 The stomach of a foetus, minutely injected, and inverted to show villi and rugae. 8 A portion of intestine, showing ulceration of the glandulae aggregatae. 9 A scirrhous pylorus. 10 The stomach of a foetus, minutely injected, and inverted, exhibiting villi and rugae. 11 A portion of oesophagus from an ox, exemplifying the villous processes. 12 A beautiful preparation of the stomach of a foetus at the period of eight months, minutely injected and inverted, showing the villi. 13 The stomach of a bird (doubtful?). 14 The digested stomach of a rabbit. The individual case recorded by Dr. Adams in his erudite work on morbid poisons, wherein a history is detailed of three animals (a dog and two rabbits) being destroyed suddenly by three individuals, viz. the dog by the discharge of an immense electric battery, transmitted through his system in consequence of the attachment of one wire to the suborbital twig of the superior maxillary branch of the nervus trigeminus, the other to the ischiatic nerve on the opposite side, administered by Mr. Cuthbertson. One of the rabbits was killed by the introduction of a myrtle-bladed scalpel between the atlas and os occipitale b}' Mr. Brookes: and the subject to which this stomach belonged was killed by a poulterer in the ordinary mode. The stomachs of the first two ani- - ” mals were not at all affected. 15 A most splendid preparation of the stomach of a young subject, minutely in- jected, inverted, and filled with spirits, showing both the cardia and py- lorus, as well as the villi. 16 The stomach of a godwit [Feedoa melanura). 17 An interesting specimen of the pylorus and a part of the stomach. 18 A beautiful example of finely injected stomach from an infant, inverted for the purpose of showing both villi and rugae. 19 A fine specimen of perforation of the stomach by ulceration. 20 A most interesting preparation, exhibiting digestion of the cardiac portion of the stomach of a young subject by the action of the succus gastricus. Pre- sented by — North, Esq. 21 A very fine case of fistula in ano, accompanied by haemorrhoidal tumors. 22 A very extraordinary case of sudden formation of femoral hernia in conse- quence of the patient merely running from the middle of the road to the foot-path, to avoid being run over by a stage furiously driven. From the smallness of the hernia (epiplocele), the case was misunderstood, and in consequence the patient lost his life from the disease being treated for en- teritis. 23 An interesting case of umbilical hernia (enterocclc) in a young subject.SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 36 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 24 Epiplocele in a cat. 25 The cardiac half of the stomach, inverted, showing inflammation produced by the action of arsenic: from an unfortunate suicide. 26 The contents of a large hernia congenita (epiplocele) successfully extirpated by Mr. Brookes, in consequence of incarceration, in consultation with Mr. Millington. 27 The cuticular lining of the stomach and part of the gastric gland of the bustard (Otis sacculosa). 28 An interesting specimen of the effects of rabies in the interior of the stomach of a dog that died of hydrophobia. Presented by — Gillman, Esq. 29 An uncommonly fine example of a scirrhous affection of the pylorus, and also of the interior of the stomach. 30 A remarkable specimen of cancerous affection of the stomach, exhibiting a very large ulcer through that viscus, and a second pervading the sub- stance of the liver. 31 The stomach of a subject that died after an operation for incarcerated scrotal hernia of immense magnitude. The patient (attended by Mr. Cate), du- ring the period of strangulation, and subsequent to the operation (per- formed by Mr. Brookes), possessed the morbid faculty of ejecting the con- tents of the organ to a very considerable distance; a glandular appear- ance is obvious about the cardia. 32 A small adult stomach, inverted, showing distinctly its rugae. 33 The stomach of an unfortunate suicide who destroyed herself by taking arsenic. 34 A most interesting specimen of stomach digested by the action of the succus gastricus: from a young subject. Presented by Dr. Henry Davis. 35 A case of large incarcerated femoral hernia (entero-epiplocele). 36 A digested stomach from a child. 37 A most extraordinary (perhaps unique) specimen of scirrhous pylorus, pro- ducing a very large tumor; Presented by — Tipple, Esq. 38 A remarkable specimen of permanent stricture of the middle of the stomach, accompanied by considerable ulceration of the cardiac portion contiguous to the pancreas. 39 A large and splendid specimen of scirrhous pylorus, extending very far across the interior of the stomach. 40 The stomach of a dog, laid open longitudinally in the tract of its lesser curva- ture, showing the natural but very remarkable longitudinal rugas. 41 A specimen of a scirrhous and almost wholly obliterated pylorus, accompa- nied by a morbid pancreas. 42 A stomach (inverted) from a young adult male subject; the individual com- mitted suicide by swallowing about half an ounce of bichloride of mercury (as was said). Presented by — Rawlins, Esq. 43 The stomach of a girl about eleven years of age, whose cardiac extremity was digested by the action of the succus gastricus. This patient had long suf- fered under caries of the tarsus. Mr. Brookes was to have amputated the limb, but the patient died suddenly on the night previous to the intended operation. 44 A specimen of the effects of rabies; from a dog that died of hydrophobia. 45 A beautiful specimen of the pylorus contracted so as scarcely to admit a bougie through its opening : portions of the stomach and duodenum are preserved for the purpose of exemplification. 46 The inverted stomach of a young married lady said to have drank four bottles of brandy during the last three days of her existence. 47 A most extraordinary and probably unique case of carcinomatous fungi at- tacking the lower portion of the oesophagus, cardia, and stomach; from a patient, at Deal Naval Hospital, under the care of Copeland Hutchin- son, Esq., and presented by that gentleman to Mr, Brookes. 48 I’he stomach of a patient who died of gout affecting the gastric organ.SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 37 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser LOT 49 The stomach and gastricglands of the adjutant bird {Megaloramphus Algala) laid open longitudinally, the ducts of the latter being replete with small worms {strongili). Killed in India, and presented by Dr. Spillsbury. 50 The stomach of a lady poisoned by oxalic acid. The case of this unfortu- nate individual is the first recorded of death being produced by that viru- lent chemical preparation. The history is detailed by the late William Royston, Esq. in the Med. and Phys. Journal (one of its Editors). The patient mistook the acid for Epsom salts, about half an ounce in quantity, which produced the most dreadful torture, and terminated in death in about forty minutes. The detail of this catastrophe called forth many replies, all negativing the noxious quality of oxalic acid. It may be here important to mention, that a sufficient quantity of magnesia (two ounces) mixed with about a quart of water, or, what may be more readily obtained, the same quantity of common whiting thrown into the stomach or promptly admi- nistered by any means. The stomach pump by preference will effectually neutralize and render inert this active poison. 51 The adult stomach inverted, showing the effects of gastritis produced by arsenic : from a suicide. 52 A stomach affected with extensive cancer, and ulceration through the organ, from a high dignitary of the. church, whose liver contained a number of tumors. Mr. Brookes opened the body in the presence of Dr. Kerrison and the late Dr. Kennedy; all of whom noticed an appearance similar to that of coffee-grounds suffused over the omentum majus and intestines. Quere ? Are not the morbid appearances exhibited in this preparation similar to those witnessed on inspecting the body of Napoleon Buonaparte ? 53 A fine case of hernia. 54 A case of enteritis, being the contents of an herniary sac, the intestines ad- hering inter se. 55 A specimen of hernia congenita, in which, the intestine adheres to the epidi- dirais. N.B. The spermatic veins are varicose. 56 An example of scrotal hernia ; the tunica vaginalis is divided for the pur- pose of showing its contents. 57 Enteritis of the colon, with considerable enlargement of the mesocolic glands. 58 A particularly fine specimen of hernia abdominalis and of a second (inguinalis) on the right side, both sacs are unoccupied. The ilium and the caecum caput coli with the appendix vermiformis are preserved ; the tunica vaginalis is laid open and dried. Presented by Alfred Jukes, Esq. 59 The ilium, caecum, appendix vermiformis caeci, and some mesocolic glands, morbidly affected. 60 A case of femoral hernia. 61 An uncommonly rare instance of hernia congenita saccata: obtained from a patient who died in the Middlesex Hospital, and presented by — Thorn- ton, Esq. The herniary sac and contents are retained within the tunica vaginalis, which lying in contact with the testis, rendered the surface of that organ somewhat concave. 62 A remarkable case of exomphalos in a new-born child; the protruded peri- toneum, forming the herniary sac, contains nearly the whole of the intes- tines. A cast of this case might have been seen in the Model-room, taken from the patient who lived three days under the care of Mr. Adams, by favour of whom Mr. Brookes obtained this singular congenital disease. 63 64 An example of a very considerable portion of omentum : extirpated by Mr. Brookes, in a case of incarcerated epiplocele, from a patient of the late William Royston, Esq, which terminated successfully. 65 A fine case of scrotal enterocele; the herniary sac is very much thickened and contained a great portion of the colon.58 SEVENTH DAY^S SALE. {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 66 An unusually interesting specimen of umbilical hernia (epiplocele) from the Dissecting-room. 67 A remarkably fine example of incarcerated umbilical hernia (entero-epiplo- cele) : from a patient of Mr. Millington’s, five months advanced in preg- nancy, on whom Mr. Brookes operated. The peritoneum is obviously ex- tended, forming the sac. 68 A very extensive case of umbilical hernia (entero-epiplocele) : the contents are adherent to the interior of the sac. 69 A choice example of scrotal hernia (enterocele); dried and varnished. Pre- sented by Alfred Jukes, Esq. 70 A very fine specimen of umbilical hernia : dried, and immersed in oil of tur- pentine. 71 A scirrhous affection of the pancreas, with the duodenum laid open, showing the terminations of the ductus pancreaticus and ductus communis choledo- chus. A portion of the aorta is preserved with some morbid lymphatic glands. 72 A part of the stomach with the pylorus, extensively affected with scirrhus. 73 An excellent preparation of femoral hernia; the bladder, a considerable por- tion of the parietes of the abdomen, the iliac and epigastric arteries and veins, as well as the vessels of the spermatic chords and testes, with the vesiculae seminales, the vasa deferentia, prostate gland and part of the penis, are all preserved in situ natural!: dried, under a glass shade. N.B. The arteries are injected red, and the veins yellow. 74 An interesting display of oscheocele. The tumor is laid open which contained the termination of the intestinum ilium (the part strangulated), the caecum and appendix vermiformis, forming the contents of the herniary sac, which are preserved, as well as the testis rendered obvious, in consequence of the tunica vaginalis being divided: dried, and preserved under a glass shade. N.B. The ossa pubis, part of the bladder, prostate gland, vesiculae seminales, and one vas deferens, with a portion of the penis, are all retained in situ naturali. Presented by 75 A remarkably fine illustration of femoral hernia, elaborately dissected; all the contiguous organs being preserved in situ naturali, and especially the spermatic chord with the testis. The herniary sac is divided, showing a small knuckle of intestine. 76 A very extraordinary case of femoral entero-epiplocele. 77 Ditto oscheocele. 78 A most remarkable case of complicated femoral enterocele. 79 A singular specimen of intus-susceptio of the colon. Compartment E. I. Comprising Preparations of morbid Hearts, Aneurisms, diseased and preternaturally formed Arteries, Veins, &c. LOT 1 A fine specimen of ossification of a part of the aorta, about the caeliac and superior mesenteric arteries. 5 2 A portion of the aorta, showing its laminae in a morbid state. ( 3 A portion of diseased artery through which a bougie has been introduced, f 4 A portion of morbid aorta taken from just above its bifurcation into the iliacs. I 5 A beautiful specimen of the valves of a vein, ) 6 A morbid specimen of the bifurcation of the arteria carotica communis into k the externa and interna, showing the sinus cerebralis.SEVEOTH DATS SALE. 39 \JDuty to be paid by the Purchaser^ • lot 7 A specimen of an enlarged arteria carotica communis, inverted. 8 A morbid specimen of the termination of the aorta into the two arteriae iliacse communes with the origin of the arteria media sacra. 9 A morbid specimen of the aorta thoracica, the internal coat of which is par- tially detached, showing at the same time the origins of several pairs of in- tercostals. 10 A portion of the aorta, exhibiting its origin, the valvulse semilunares, corpora sesamoidea, the origins of the coronary arteries, with a part of the sinus aortas in a morbid state. 11 A beautiful view of the valvula Eustachii, and termination of the vena coronaria cordis. 12 A portion of the aorta and pulmonary artery in a diseased s(*ate, also demon- strates the ligamentum arteriosum. 13 A part of the aorta above its bifurcation, morbidly affected, with the origin of the arteria mesenterica inferior and media sacra. 14< A portion of the aorta, including its division into the arteriae iliacae com- munes, very much ossified. fl5 The valvulae bicuspides, chordae tendiniae, and carneae columnas, beautifully I displayed. J 16 A specimen of the septum auricularum, showing the fossa ovalis, valvula \ ovalis and patent foramen ovale, with the valvula coronaria and vena coro- naria cordis, (_ 17 A portion of diseased artery. fl8 Ditto. I 19 An example of vein very much diseased. <( 20 A portion of the aorta abdominalis morbidly affected, extending from just above the superior mesenteric artery to somewhat below the inferior, show- L ing also the origin of the arterise renales and some iumbales. 21 A specimen of the splenic artery, injected. 22 A heart dried, hollow, with the arteriae coronariae and vena coronaria cordis as well as the venae innominatae injected with mercury: dried, and im- mersed in oil of turpentine. 23 A very remarkable heart of a Cyanops (foetus), the pulmonary artery of which is impervious at its origin; the right ventricle is wanting. 24? A choice illustration of a small patch of ossification on the vena poplitea. 25 An interesting preparation of the heart, dried hollow, from a minutely in- jected foetus, showing the canalis arteriosus, foramen ovale, &c. 26 An example of a part of the aorta, exhibiting the valvulae semilunares, arteria coronariae cordis, &c. {27 Ditto, much smaller. 28 A specimen of the sinus aortae with the origin of the arteria innominata and arteria carotida communis sinistra, morbidly affected. 29 A portion of diseased aorta. rSO Ditto. < 31 Ditto. L32 Ditto. 33 A fine view of the right auricle and musculi pectinati- 34? An interesting display of ossification of the aorta just above its origin, with a view of the valvulae semilunares and corpora sesamoidea. 35 An example of ananeurismal cyst of the aorta, containing a coagulum, in the common crane (Grus communis), including a portion of the lungs. N.B. The aneurism was produced by a spicula of glass passing through the gizzard into the aorta. J. B. {36 A specimen of morbid artery. 37 A coagulum from the interior of an aneurismal cyst. 38 An example (perhaps unique) of a pervious canalis arteriosus in the adult; the transverse arch of the aorta and a part of the pulmonary artery are both preserved. 39 A preparation of the sinus aortae morbidly affected.40 SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 40 Ditto, to a greater extent. 41 A specimen of the origin of the aorta, showing its valves and coronary ar- teries in a diseased state. 42 An interesting injection of an haemorrhoidal tumor, and its continuity with the varicose veins of the sphincter ani. r43 The lower portion of the aorta, part of the coats are divided, showing a small j ossification. J 44 A specimen of coagulable lymph (buff) from the surface of the blood, taken ] from a patient afflicted with an inflammatory disease. 45 The origin of the aorta, showing its valves and coronary arteries much dis- eased. 46 A speck of ossification of the popliteal vein. 47 A fine example of the origin of the aorta, divided to show its valves and coro- nary arteries. 48 Ditto. 49 Ditto, somewhat diseased. 50 Ulceration of the sinus aortae producing effusion of blood into the pericar- dium,. which destroyed the patient. N.B. The pulmonary artery is pre- served, showing its valves : those of the aorta, the origin of the coronary arteries, and ligamentum arteriosum, are likewise seen. "51 A specimen of coagulable lymph (buff). 52 The origin of the aorta, showing the semilunar valves, and the origin of the . coronary arteries, (apparently four,) a part of the ventricle dissected to I demonstrate its muscular fibres, with the valvulae bicuspides and chordae tendiniee, which are seen in consequence of the removal of a great portion of the pulmonic auricle. ^53 A beautiful example of the cavic auricle divided, showing the musculi pecti- 1 nati and the two venae cavae, with the foramina Thebesia. I 54 The origin of the aorta, showing its valves somewhat diseased, and coronary V. arteries. 55 56 A unique specimen of pulmonary artery having only two valvulae sigmoidales, dried and varnished. 57 An example of the origin of the aorta, its valves, and coronary arteries. 58 A specimen of ossification of the valvulae semilunares of the aorta. 59 A singular instance of pulmonary artery, having four valves. 60 The valvulae bicuspides. 61 The spermatic artery and vein. 62 An enlarged and ossified artery, believed to be the hepatic ? J. B. dried, and in oil of turpentine. 63 A portion of the vena umbilicalis: dried. 64 A heart morbidly affected, and exhibiting a very unusual appearance. Pre- sented by Dr. Nesbit. 65 A fine specimen of carditis, in which the pericardium universally adheres to the heart. 66 An excellent illustration of aneurism of the sinus aortae. The sac is large, and, having burst into one of the bronchia, the patient died of suffocation. 67 Ditto, having a similar termination. 68 A fine preparation of the aorta with a great portion of its ventricle, the valvulae semilunares, arteriae coronariae, and valvulae bicuspides,'with the chordae tendiniae, carneae, columnae, &c., the pulmonary artery, its valves and corresponding ventricle, also the ligamentum arteriosum and pulmo- nary auricle. 69 A case of carditis with considerable thickening of the sinus aortae. 70 An interesting specimen of aneurismal enlargement of the sinus aortae. 71 Polypus concretions (coagulable lymph) from pulmonary arteries. 72 An extraordinary instance of inflammation of an artery supervening the operation for aneurism. Performed and presented by J. G. Guthrie, Esq. 73 The vena jugularis from a horse, to show valves.I SEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 41 I \_Dutyio be paid by the Purchaseri] ■LOT |74 A fine example of a large aneurism of the aorta abdominalis, which increased I anteriorly; the coats are greatly thickened, laminated, and replete with co- I agulura. N.B. The remaining part of the aorta, its vessels, the cor- I responding cava and tributary veins, one glandula supra-renalis, kidney, I and ureter, are preserved in situ naturali. 175 An excellent specimen of a large aneurism of the sinus aortse, which com- I pressed the pulmonary artery: also the heart and vessels, dried and var- I nished, in a bottle. 76 An extraordinary case of osteo-chondromatous tumor of the heart. 177 A choice specimen of aneurism of the sinus aortse, likewise the heart and i vessels: dried and varnished, in a bottle. N.B. In this case the vena cava thoracica is much compressed, although its corresponding auricle is en- larged and altered in figure. 78 A preparation of extensive carditis. 79 A beautiful example of the sinusaortae aneurisraally enlarged; also the arteria innominata and commencement of the aorta thoracica. 80 A singular case of aneurism of the sinus aortae. extensively ossified; the aneu- rismal cyst during the progress of its enlargement occasioned caries of the sternum and absorption of a considerable number of ribs at their sternal extremities and of their cartilages, forming a large tumor extending through the pectoral muscles, ultimately terminating by rupture through the integuments of the breast. N.B. The heart and many of its vessels are preserved : varnished, and under a glass shade. 81 A remarkable aneurismal enlargement of the sinus aortse at the origin of the arteria innominata, and of aneurism at the termination of the trans- verse arch, which by pressure produced ulceration of the oesophagus, where a rupture took place, and death consequently ensued. N.B. The receptaculum chyli and ductus thoracicus are preserved : dried and var- nished, in a bottle. From the collection of — Young, Esq. 82 An instance of a large aneurism at the termination of the aorta, and of two singularly formed oblong aneurismal enlargements, one of each arteria iliaca communis. The individual from whom this interesting speci- men was obtained, (through the kindness of the late John Birch, Esq. Surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital,) was 74- years of age, a bon vivant; and there is reason to believe the cyst burst at the time the patient was in the water-closet, in consequence of extreme costiveness. J. B. 83 An extremely fine specimen of three aneurisms of the aorta, one at the ter- mination of the transverse arch; a second at the lower part of the aorta thoracica; and the third near the commencement of the aorta abdominalis ; which last, bursting, produced death: dried, varnished, and in a bottle. 84 A beautiful preparation of the heart and its vessels, with the aorta, vena cava thoracica, vena azygos, receptaculum chyli, ductus thoracicus, lungs and oesophagus, glandulae supra-renales, kidneys, their vessels, blad- der, penis, pelvis, and upper part of the thighs, all in situ naturali ; inj ect- ed, dried, varnished, and in a bottle. N.B. The rightarteria iliaca externa bifurcates above the crural arch, consequently there is no arteria femoralis communis. 85 An interesting example of a double aneurism of the aorta, just at the origin of the arteria mesenterica superior : dried, varnished, and in a bottle. 86 An illustration of popliteal aneurism, with the whole of the crural artery : dried, varnished, and in a bottle.EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. WEDNESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment E. O. Hearts, to show natural conformation and morbid affections. Arteries, showing structure, aneurisms, and other diseases. { r 1 { { { { LOT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 A section of morbid aorta. Ramifications of the cerebral arteries ossified. The origin of the aorta, diseased ; also its valves. A section of morbid aorta. A beautiful specimen of the valves of a vein. A specimen of diseased aorta. A portion of aorta ossified about the origin of the coeliac and superior mesen- teric arteries ; the first vessel appears to be obliterated. A section of diseased aorta. Doubtful ? 10 A diseased coronary artery. 11 An incipient disease of the aorta. 12 The valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery: dried and varnished. 13 Doubtful—probably pleuritis ? 14 Ditto—apparently the spermatic artery and vein? 15 Ditto. 16 The heart of a turtle, with its vessels injected, in spirits. 17 Ambiguous—apparently the thymus gland ? 18 A section of the aorta recently become diseased. 19 Ditto more extensively affected. 20 21 A very interesting specimen of strong muscular fibres of the heart decussating each other. 22 f23 Ossification of a part of tlie aorta. 24 Doubtful ? A section of diseased aorta. A diseased coronary artery. 125 26 27 28 /29 I SO rsi [32 33 34 rs5 J 36 137 38 39 A diseased coronary artery. The valves of the aorta much ossified. The termination of the aorta morbidly affected. A beautiful view of the valvula coronaria cordis The termination of the aorta much diseased. Doubtful ? An interesting specimen of diseased aorta, a portion of the internal coat is detached. A remarkable instance of ulceration of the interior of the sinus .aortae ; pro- bably a frequent cause of aneurism. A section of the cavic auricle of a liorse, showing the musculi pectinati re- markably strong. The external surface is affected with carditis.EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. 43 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT r40 The termination of the aorta ossified : dried, and in a bottle. < 41 A section of the pulmonic ventricle (from the horse). L42 The termination of the aorta much diseased. {43 A portion'of ossified aorta. 44 A section of the aorta morbidly affected : the internal coat is detached. 45 A portion of aorta ossified: dried, and in a bottle. {46 A section of diseased aorta, its laminated coats being separated. 47 The left elbow-joint of a leopard (Felis Leopardus), the brachial artery, being injected, is seen passing through the aperture in the internal condyle of the os brachii. 48 A section of the thoracic aorta, showing the origins of the intercostal arteries. {49 The commencement of the aorta, its valves and coronary arteries. 50 The axillary and brachial arteries universally ossified. f51 A section of the aortic ventricle, also exhibiting the valvulae bicuspides, < chordae tendiniae, and carneae columnae, as well as the pulmonic auricle. L52 An interesting specimen of ossification of the coronary arteries. 53 54 An example of an injected superior extremity of a foetus, showing four arteries supplying the fore-arm, viz. the radial, ulnar, interosseous, and median. 55 The aorta injected, from the curvature of which the following arteries arise as enumerated, viz. 1st, the arteria carotica communis dextra; 2nd, the ar - teria carotica communis sinistra; 3rd, the arteria subclavia sinistra; and lastly, the arteria subclavia dextra, which passes between the oesophagus and vertebrae, from the left to the right side, to its destination. N.B. The trachea and oesophagus are preserved, dried, and in a bottle. 56 The commencement of the aorta and its sinus very much diseased; the latter is laid open for the purpose of exhibiting the morbid affection : the valves and coronary arteries are preserved. 57 A beautiful view of the interior of the aortic ventricle, exhibiting the valvulae bicuspides, carneae columnae, and chordae tendiniae; the origin of the aorta, its three valves, the sinus Valsalvae, and coronary arteries. f58 The origin of the aorta morbidly affected ; having its internal coat some- what detached. L59 An umbilical vein with only one accompanying artery : dried, and in a bottle. {60 The lower part of the aorta much ossified: dried, and in a bottle. 61 The commencement of the aorta, with its sinus morbidly affected and appa- rently ulcerated. The valves and coronary arteries are also preserved. 62 The lower half of a foetus, the arteries of which are injected. In the right ex- tremity there are two crural arteries which unite in the tricipital canal, independently of the arteria femoralis profunda. Dissected at the West- minster Hospital, and presented by — Farquhar, Esq., Surgeon to the Foot Guards. Perfectly unique! 63 A large section of the heart, exhibiting a fine specimen of carditis. 64 Ditto, minutely injected, and truly superb. 65 The heart of a young subject, injected. 66 An interesting preparation of the valvula Eustachii and coronaria, with the termination of the vena cava abdominalis, and a portion of the cavic auricle. 67 A choice example of extensive ossification of the termination of the aorta. 68 A particularly useful exhibition of the commencement of the aorta, its valves and coronary arteries ; the internal lamina of the aorta is somewhat sepa- rated. 69 A specimen of the arteria and vena spermatica, taken from a subject at the full period of gestation : the artery is extremely tortuous and filled with red injection, the vein with blue; this last vessel is full half an inch in diameter, on the surface of which there is a beautiful distribution of arte- rio'lae venarum : dried and varnished.4^ EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he 'paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 70 A highly interesting case of inflammation of the veins of the arm following phlebotomy. The patient died in the Westminster Hospital, having been received into that establishment with the arm in a dreadfully diseased state consequent on the operation. Presented by — Harding, Esq. 71 The aorta ossified, and inverted to show the osseous laminae of its internal coat. 72 Aneurismal enlargements of the sinus and transverse arch of the aorta, of which there are three distinct cysts, and in addition one at the basis of the arteria innominata, and another at the basis of the left subclavian artery : dried, in a bottle. 73 A case of aneurism of the arteria innominata, laid open. 74 A singular instance of double aneurism of the aorta at the commencement of the coeliac artery. 75 An example of carditis. 7 6 A most extraordinary instance of a heart the muscular parietes of which are replete with cysticerci: (from a bear). Presented by Sir Anthony Carlisle. 77 Arteries aneurismally enlarged and replete with coagulable lymph. 78 A heart dried hollow ; the cavities are laid open, for the purpose of showing the various valves in the interior of that organ : the valvulae bicuspides are ossified. 79 A singular specimen of the heart and lungs of a cyanops : unique, in as much as there is a vena cava thoracica sinistra, passing beneath the pulmonic auricle, and terminating with the right corresponding vein. The aorta and pulmonary artery both arise from the pulmonic ventricle, which is very capacious, whereas the aortic is the reverse: there is in addition a very large foramen in the upper part of the septum ventriculorum. Presented by —Wood, Esq. professor of chemistry, &c. Oxford. 80 One of those singular instances of which we frequently hear, but seldom see, —a “ broken heart.” I'his remarkable preparation was taken from the body of one of Mr. Whitbread’s draymen, wdio, in an attempt ’at moving a butt of porter, had the aortic ventricle ruptured. 81 A specimen of the transverse arch of the aorta; the coronary arteries are much ossified, as well as the ligamentum arteriosum. 82 A preparation of a heart in spirits, showing all its vessels in situ naturali, with the aortic ventricle laid open, exhibiting its interior. 83 An uncommonly fine example of the origin of the aorta : the valvulae semi- lunares, and interior of the aortic ventricle, with the valvulae bicuspides, are admirably seen, as well as the valvulae tricuspides, the interior of the pulmonic ventricle, the origin and course of the coronary arteries, and the interior of the cavic auricle. 84 A beautiful illustration of the heart, dissected to show its internal admi- rable structure, and among other interesting parts a filamentous valvula Eustachii. 85 The heart of a cyanops : the aorta arises from the septum cordis, in the upper part of which there is a large foramen; the pulmonary artery appears to be closed at its valves, but is pervious towards the lungs : the foramen ovale is likewise pervious, and the interior of both ventricles exposed. 86 A specimen of the pulmonic auricle, with a part of the aortic ventricle and valvulae bicuspides, (from the horse). 87 A dissection of the heart of a young subject, showing the valvula Eustachii, and a persistent foramen ovale, &c. 88 A splendid injection of the interior of the aortic ventricle, with the origin of the aorta, its valves and corpora sesamoidea, the valvulae bicuspides, chordae tendiniae, carneae columnae,the interior of the pulmonic ventricle, &c. 89 A specimen of the transverse arch of the aorta, having a considerable aneu- rism connected with its convex, and an aneurismal enlargement of its con- cave surface. The oesophagus is preserved, dried, and varnished : in a bottle.45 EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser LOT 90 An interesting preparation of the aorta at its commencement, the valvulas semilunares, and the coronary arteries ; the last are much ossified. The pulmonary artery is preserved. 91 A beautiful specimen of aneurism of the sinus aortas, laid open, and exhibiting a large circular aperture leading into the aneurismal cyst. The pulmonary artery and ligaraentum arteriosum are preserved. 92 A singular instance of aneurismal enlargement of the aortic ventricle at its apex. N.B. The entire heart is preserved, with its vessels. 93 An illustration of carditis, in which the whole of the pericardium is adherent to the heart. Presented by Dr. Nesbit. 94 An adult heart preserved in spirits, with a portion of its pericardium, showing the ligamentum arteriosum. 95 A choice specimen of aneurism of the sinus aortse, which had burst into one of the bronchi, and destroyed the patient by suffocation. N.B. This preparation affords an illustration of the thoracic duct and its termina- tion, the internal jugulars, venae subclaviae, vena azygos, and cava thoracica. 96 An instance of aneurismal enlargement of the sinus aortae, with a dissection of the muscular fibres of the ventricles and their interior, the course of the coronary arteries, the origin of the aorta, and the pulmonary artery. Part of the pericardium is preserved. 97 98 A singularly fine and large preparation of aneurism of the aorta thora- cica, a considerable aperture may be perceived in the artery; and a second aneurism of the aorta abdominalis; this opening is also very conspicuous. The whole of the aorta and its chief vessels, the vena cava thoracica and the principal veins that terminate in it, the lungs, the pulmo- nary artery, its large branches, and those of the pulmonary veins, the nervi vagi, and ductus thoracicus with its termination, are also preserved. 99 A specimen of a most formidable aneurism of the aorta thoracica, which by its pressure had produced caries of five ribs, forming subsequently an enormous tumor on the left side and back; the receptaculum chyli and ductus thoracicus with its termination are likewise preserved, together with a portion of the left subclavian vein (dried and varnished, under a glass shade). The crayon drawing N® in the Picture-room is a faithful por- trait of the patient shortly before death. 100 Another very extensive case of aneurism of the aorta thoracica, which had burst into the lungs, occasioning death by suffocation. The large vessels appertaining to the heart, one lung, several vertebra, and the contents of the posterior mediastinum, are preserved. 101 A singular case of aneurism of the popliteal artery; the tumor, replete with fibrine, is of very considerable magnitude; the artery, almost ob- literated, with its corresponding vein, are dissected, and seen anterior to the disease. This case is recorded by Mr. Pott, who amputated the limb, and is said to be the failure of one of Mr. John Hunter’s operations. 102 A most interesting case of aneurism of the termination of the aorta thora- cica, with several vertebrae the bodies of which are become carious; the large aperture in the aorta is to be perceived distinctly, the trachea, bronchi, and oesophagus are preserved. 103 The last, though not least, remarkable case of an aneurism of the sinus aortas, that by its augmentation and pressure had occasioned absorption of the sternum, through which it passed, forming a large pulsating tumor on the chest; this ultimately bursting, death ensued.46 EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser,^ GALLERY. Compartment N. Brain, &c. LOT 1 The entire encephalon, the vessels of which are well injected : in spirits. j 2 A fine preparation of the brain, the ventriculi magni tricornes are exposed, to show the different cornua and their contents ; the septum lucidum, and a part of the corpus callosum. This preparation exhibits posteriorly the nerves arising from the medulla oblongata. ' 3 Ditto, showing the corpus callosum, raphe, striae transversales, septum lu- cidum (which is still diaphanous), the fimbriae, the two ventriculi magni tri- cornes (the cavities and their contents are exposed), the glandula pine- alis, corpora quadrigemina, valvula magna Vieusinii) the fourth ventricle is laid open, exhibiting the calamus scriptorius, its crena, &c. The two lobes of the cerebellum are divided to show the arbor vitae, and a section is made of one corpus striatum exhibiting its striae 3 inferiorly the optic and other nerves are displayed, as well as the tuber annulare, the crura cerebelli, the me- dulla oblongata, the corpora pyramidalia, olivaria, foramina caeca, &c. N.B. The entire of one fimbria and the plexus choroides on the right side, with both hippocampi majores, are distinctly seen. 4 A section of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum j the external portion is re- moved, showing a part of the thalamus nervi optici, plexus choroides, and posterior cornu,—internally the labium cerebri, a part of the cerebral artery with the ramus corporis callosi, &c. j the glandula pituitaria, and infundibulum. 5 A transverse section of the hemispheres of the cerebrum, showing the ventriculi magni tricornes and the third ventricle. 6 A section of one hemisphere of the cerebrum, showing the pia mater, minutely injected. 7 A section of the brain, showing the anterior and posterior crura fornicis ; wdth the terminations of the latter in the hippocampi majores. Inferiorly the ce- rebral arteries and origins of the rami fossarum Sylvii, the tuber annulare, medulla oblongata, &c. 8 An interesting specimen of a large abscess in the substance of one hemisphere of the cerebrum. N.B. The abscess was the consequence of a blow inflicted on the head of a woman, who afterwards became nervous and dejected, com- plaining of slight pain in the head, accompanied with rigors. She was sub- sequently attacked with nausea and retching, succeeded by coma, in which state she lay for about three weeks, being nearly universally paralysed, when ' Mr. Brookes performed the operation of the trephine on one side of the supe- rior longitudinal sinus, without aftbrding the least relief. The next day the operation was repeated, but on the opposite side, which being followed by a slight elevation of the subjacent parts, induced him to divide the meninges : the removal of the bone so far relieved the patient, that she raised one of her arms, but died the following day. PATHOLOGY. Diseased Bones. 9 A specimen of an os brachii fractured and reunited just above its condyles: in a bottle. 10 Ditto, luxated, fractured, and reunited, but nevertheless remaining very much diseased. 11 A fine case of abscess in the tibia, probably originating from necrosis. 12 Ditto.47 EIGHTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] I.OT 13 A tibia twice fractured, at the malleolus internus, extending into the articula- tion, and again a little above the ankle-joint. 14 An os brachii morbidly affected. 15 A disease of the elbow-joint. 16 A stump of the fore-arm, the lower part of which had been amputated many years previously to the patient’s death. Remarkable bulbs (ganglia) formed by nerves subsequently to their division, are very conspicuous: the arteries are injected. I 17 A highly interesting case of a large exostosis from the outer surface of the right os pubis, probably forming the nucleus of an immense osteo-chondro- matous tumor. 18 A diseased ankle-joint injected and laid open, from a limb amputated by Mr. Pott. 19 An interesting specimen of anchylosed knee-joint: injected, dried, and im- mersed in oil of turpentine. 20 A large and extraordinary osseous tumor, extirpated from the neck, accom- panied by an authentic document. Presented by Wm. Taylor, Esq. 21 The head of an os femoris fractured at its cervix during life. 22 A perfectly pathological bijou, comprising a case of luxation of the os femoris into the foramen thyroideum. The head of the bone by its pressure has occasioned the absorption of the ligamentum obturans, and formed a new acetabulum, having a convex osseous covering, which protruded into the musculus obturator internus. N.B. This fine specimen of disease was found in the cemetery of St. Katherine’s Hospital by — Snell, Esq., and presented to Mr. Brookes. 23 A very fine case of necrosis of the lower half of the os femoris. 24 Ditto of one half of the lower jaw of the horse. 25 Exostosis of half of the lower jaw of another horse.NINTH DAY’S SALE. THURSDAY^ at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] GALLERY. ; Compartment O. Absorbents, Sexual Organs, Pathology, &c. - LOT ^ 1 A preparation of the lacteals on the mesentery of a turtle, injected with mer- cury : in oil of turpentine. S Ditto of lymphatics on the surface of the lungs. 3 Ditto ditto on the liver. 4 Ditto, being an uncommonly fine specimen of the lymphatics of the kidney. 5 A very large lymphatic, with its gland injected with mercury. 6 Lacteals of the human intestine filled with mercury ; the arteries and veins are , minutely injected of different colours. j 7 Lymphatics on the heart, injected with mercury: dried and varnished, in a | bottle. 8 Lymphatics of the testis and spermatic chord, injected with mercury (a draw- . ing in a bottle). 9 A beautiful specimen of lymphatics, injected with mercury, on the surface of' the human liver. 10 Lacteals on the intestine of the turtle, filled with mercury. 11 Ditto on the mesentery. -j 12 Lymphatics on the surface of the liver. 13 Ditto on the stomach of the turtle, filled with mercury, and immersed in oil of turpentine, occupying a very large oval bottle. i Sexual Organs. , 14 The penis of a very large tortoise, injected, displaying a singular appear- - ance. 15 A case of phlegmone testis (hernia humoralis) : in spirits. 16 An inimitable preparation of the testis, in which the vas deferens, epididymis, vasa efferentia, rete testis, and tubuli seminiferi are injected with mercury. Presented by Sir Astley Cooper, Bart. ' 17 A portion of the penis, having the corpus spongiosum urethras injected with i red wax, and the corpora cavernosa inflated and dried ; a longitudinal sec- tion subsequently made of the outer surface of one of the last-named bodies ! shows the pecten, through the spaces of which the deep-seated arteries ^ of the organ anastomose. , 18 A large section of hepatized lungs : in spirits. 19 Ditto, small but elegant. 20 A beautiful specimen of a minutely injected spleen in a full-grown foetus. 21 A portion of diseased liver in which two abscesses were formed. 22 A kidney m spirits, showing the tubuli uriniferi. 23 A very remarkable larynx taken from a young woman, a patient in the Mid- dlesex Hospital; an unhappy creature who attempted to commit suicide ; by cutting her throat. The instrument passed half through the thyroid cartilage, and produced considerable haemorrbage, which being subsequently staunched she remained for several days recovering, when a coagulum, ad- hering to the posterior part of the wound, becoming detached in an effort of coughing, occasioned suffocation.INn>mT i:iAY'» ^F5T iDidy to be paid by the Purchaser,^ LOT -^4i Filamentous connections between the cuticle and cutis of the calcaneum, formerly supposed to be transpiratory vessels. 55 Pneumatocele (liydrocele) from a new-born infant; tlie vessels are minutely injected. The tumor, about the size of a nutmeg, has been inflated, dried, and subsequently immersed in oil of turpentine. N.B. The testis is seen at the posterior surface of the tumor. 56 The plexus choroides and velum interpositum. 27 Ossicula auditus. 28 Ossification of the spleen ; a beautiful specimen : immersed in oil of turpen- tine. 29 A bottle, containing specimens of six biliary concretions. SO A small osseous tumor from the liver. 31 Two small biliary concretions, SALOON.—GLASS CASES. Compartment A. Dried vascular preparations. I 1 An adult vascular subject; the whole of the arteries are injected red, and the veins yellow on one side. 2 A vascular subject, about 16 years of age, having all the arteries injected red, and the Veins of one side, with those of the throat, of a yellow colour ; the heart (in situ naturali) is injected, together with the liver, the vena porta abdominalis, and penis: the diaphragm is preserved, and the tout ensemble forms an interesting display. 3 The bust of an adult subject, the whole of the blood-vessels are injected of different colours, as well as the ductus thoracicus : the eyes are retained in situ naturali. 4 A vascular preparation of a young subject; all the arteries are injected, and the veins of the trunk, with the vena porta, the heart, the pulmonic ves- sels, &c, are also injected. 5 A most elaborate preparation of a young subject; thearteries are univer- sally injected, and all the muscles dissected, and dried in situ naturali. 6 A knee-joint, the arteries of which are injected : many of the ligaments as well as the tendons are preserved. 7 A preparation of the arteries of the leg and foot, in which the arteria tibialis antica is extremely diminutive, and terminates by an inosculation with the arteria peronea communis, the ramus anterior, passing through the lower part of the ligamentum interosseum, becomes the substitute for the con- tinuation of the arteria tibialis antica, 8 The lower part of the leg and foot of an adult subject, the arteries are ^ injected, and muscles with their tendons preserved. 9 The leg and foot of an adult subject, the arteries of which are injected, and the muscles dissected and preserved. 10 Ihe whole of the arteries of the inferior extremity and pelvis, injected, from ^ a young subject: the nerves are also traced in this interesting specimen. 11 The lower extremity of an adult subject, with the arteries injected and mus- cles dissected and preserved. 12 Ditto. 13 Ditto. 14 A most extraordinary arrangement of the crural artery, which becoming nearly obliterated in the middle of the thigh, inosculates in the canalis tricipitis with the profunda : the latter artery also anastomoses freely with the arteria poplitea, formed by an enlargement of the diminutive crural artery. There are other considerable communications between rr50 IN 1 IN in UAX’» \_Dut.y to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT the ramus perforans secundus arterise femoralis profundae and the ramus articularis externus superior arterim popliteae. 15 A preparation of the arteries of the lower extremity, the muscles, &c. being also preserved. 16 Ditto, with many of the nerves. 17 Ditto. 18 A fine preparation of the inferior extremity, nearly the whole of the arteries are ossified. 19 An inferior extremity: the arteries are injected, the muscles and nerves preserved, with the bladder, vesicula3 seminales, vasa deferentia, prostate gland, membranous part of the urethra, penis, and testis ; also the sper- matic chord and its relation to the internal epigastric branch of the arteria iliaca externa, the crural arch and its crescentic margin. The pelvic portion of this preparation illustrates the parts concerned in hernia, as well as the puncture of the bladder per anum. 20 The left and corresponding inferior extremity to that of No. 14, both being from the same subject. In this remarkable limb, the whole of the arteries are injected and the muscles dissected, the arteria cruralis is entirely ligamentous for about three inches in the middle of the thigh ; a branch arises at a right angle from the artery on each side just above its oblitera- tion, and then descends to anastomose with other similar ramifications is- suing from the trunk immediately beneath, so that there are two small collateral branches for the purpose of conveying the blood, which in ordi- nary cases is transmitted by the trunk; the ramus perforans secundus arterias profundae inosculates with the ramus perforans externus arteriae popliteae, besides which there are several other large anastomoses. 21 A beautiful arterial preparation of the inferior extremity from a young subject: the muscles are preserved, the gluteus maximus is elevated and the medius removed, to show the ramus gluteus, ischiaticus, and pu- dicus internus arteriae hypogastricae : the ramus obturator in this prepara- tion arises from the internal epigastric branch of the arteria iliaca externa : not the least interesting feature in this specimen is the accurate manner in which the sartorius muscle has been preserved, showing its relation to the crural artery. 22 A young subject: the whole of the arteries are extremely well injected and dissected ; there is a high division of the left brachial artery. The dia- phragm is preserved in situ naturali; the kidneys, their pelves and ure- ters, are injected. 23 An uncommonly fine vascular young subject, having all the Veins of the throat well injected (yellow) ; on the right side there are two venae jugu- lares externae anastomosing with each other by transverse branches : Ihe veins of the larynx form an interesting display in this preparation. The heart and lungs are preserved : the two left lobes of the latter organ have their arteries and veins injected and dissected. The vena porta abdomi- nalis and hepatica are also injected and dissected. 24 A vascular preparation of a young subject, having all its veins and arteries filled with differently coloured injection : the heart and vena porta abdo- rainalis are injected and retained in situ naturali : most of the muscles and nerves are dissected and preserved : altogether it forms a splendid cabinet specimen. 25 Ditto, more elaborate than the preceding ; the gall-bladder, biliary ducts, and duodenum are preserved. The veins of the extremities have been removed from this subject. 26 Half of the pelvis and thigh: the arteries of the latter are injected. In this preparation the ramus epigastricus internus gives origin to the obturator and internal circumflex branches : the arteria femoralis communis is very short.H 2 NINTH DATB~SATK 5T \^Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] OT 27 An arterial inferior extremity. 28 The half of the pelvis and inferior extremity, in 'which the arteries are all injected ; this preparation is very remarkable for having the popliteal artery obliterated, although those of the leg are large and -well traced. 29 Ditto, being the corresponding limb, the popliteal artery is in a similar state. 50 An inferior extremity without the pelvis : the arteries are injected. 51 A fine preparation, consisting of a considerable portion of the pelvis, with the inferior extremity, the arteries and veins are injected, the bladder, vesi- culsB seminales, vasa deferentia, prostate gland, penis and testis, with many of the nerves, are preserved in situ natiirali. 32 An inferior extremity, the arteries of which are injected, with those of the pel- vis ; remarkable, inasmuch as the arteria femoralis communis is wanting ; the iliaca externa bifurcating and giving origin on the one hand to the cruralis, from which the ramus circurafiexus cristae ilei arises, and on the other to the femoralis profunda; from this last the ramus epigastricus inter- nus takes its origin. This singular lusus naturae forms a case of great mo- ment, to be borne in mind vdien performing the operation of amputation of the thigh at the hip-joint: from a female subject: the external and internal organs, with the bladder and rectum, are preserved in situ naturali. 33 A beautiful inferior extremity, the arteries and veins are injected ; the mus- cles and nerves dissected and preserved. 34 Ditto, equally beautiful with the preceding. 35 An inferior extremity, the arteries, veins, and lymphatics are injected. This preparation exhibits a case of ventro-inguinal hernia ; the spermatic chord, testis, and tunica vaginalis are preserved, the latter distended. 36 An inferior extremity, the blood vessels are filled with ceraceous injection, the lymphatics with mercury. 37 The bust of a dog ; the arteries are injected. f 38 The anterior extremity of an ass : the arteries and veins are injected. [39 The posterior extremity of an ass : the arteries only are injected. SALOON. Compartment B. Containing dried preparations, from the adult subject, of the vas- cular system, the thoracic, abdominal, extra-abdominal, and pel- vic viscera ; the sexual organs, hernim, placentae, &c. LOT J A spine, with the aorta, vena azygos, receptaculum chyii, ductus thoracicus and its termination. 2 Ditto, but very singular ; the vena cava abdominalis supplanting the aorta by taking its station on the left side of the spine: the kidnies, their pelves, ureters and the renal vessels, are injected; also some of the venae cavae he- patica?, the vena azygos, venae jugulares internae and vena subclavia sinistra ; the os byoides, larynx, trachea and bronchi, the pharynx, cesophagus^ &c. are preserved. 3 Ditto, still more choice, inasmuch as there are two venae cavae abdomi- nales in this preparation, one on each side of the aorta. Each kidney trans- mits a distinct vena renalis into its corresponding cava ; the vena accessoria inferior dextra (vena azygos) is injected, that on the left side is seen origina- ting from the vena renalis sinistra, and communicating with the venae lum- bales. There is also an exposition of the termination of the ductus thoraci- cus, at the angle formed between the left subclavian and internal jugularNINTH DAY^S SALE. •2 LOT [l)uhj to he paid hy the Purchaser.^ veins. The os hyoides, larynx, trachea, bronchi, pharynx, oesophagus, &c. are preserved. 4 Ditto, with the pelvis, crural arches, their crescentic margins, external abdominal rings and columnse, the cavic auricle, the termination of the vena cava abdominalis, the vena cava tboracica, the vena azygos and its communication with the latter : the vena accessoria inferior sinistra, the venfe jugulares internse, the venae subclaviae, the ductus thoracicus injected with mercury and dissected to its union with the venous system, as explained in Lot 2. N.B. There were four renal arteries on each side in this subject, now broken off with the kidnies. 5 Another preparation, having two venjEcavaeabdominales becoming considerable venae satellites to the aorta j there is also a very large pouch formed on the right side of the oesophagus (preserved in this trunk), where some extra- neous body must have remained for years, ("not found on dissection, hav- ing probably passed into the stomach in articulo mortis, from the general relaxation of the system) j the vena accessoria inferior dextra (vena azy- gos), the vena accessoria superior dextra, and vena accessoria inferior sinis- tra, are injected (blue), the trachea, bronchi, with the oesophagus, as before observed, are all preserved. 6 A highly interesting and elaborate preparation of the • ntire trunk and pelvis, in which all the thoracic, abdominal, extra-abdominal, and pelvic viscera are retained; injected in situ naturali. The sexual organs both external and internal (female), as well as the contents of the posterior mediastinum, are preserved. The pleurae and peritoneum are entire, and the sternum j the ramus mammarius internus arteriae subclavisc is seen running on each side of the bone. The lungs are injected by the trachea and bronchi j the heart is in its pericardium. The diaphragm remains in situ naturali. The stomach and intestines (stuffed with cotton) will bear handling. The omentum hepatogastricum and gastro-colicum with the liver are exhibited ; the vesica fellis is injected yellow, as is also the vesica urinaria. Therecep- taculum chyli and thoracic duct are seen a posteriori, also the spermatic ves- sels, both arteries and veins, together with the ureters, rectum, hemorrhoidal vessels, vasa media sacri, vasa intercostalia and lumbalia. The pharynx and oesophagus, larynx, trachea, are displayed ; forming altogether one of the most useful preparations that can possibly be desired. N.B. This speci- men illustrates the entire system of the venae accessoriae, c. g. the vena acces- sovia superior dextra and sinistra, the vena accessoria inferior sinistra and dextra (vena sine pari). 7 A spine, the aorta of which is injected red, the venae subclaviae and vena cava tboracica, green; with the vena accessoria superior dextra and the inferior (vena sine pari); also the vena accessoria inferior sinistra. The ductus thoracicus is injected yellow to its termination. 8 A preparation of the lower part of the trunk from a subject having only one kidney (the left). The inferior portions of the aorta and cava abdomina- lis are injected, the latter receiving the termination of the vena renalis. The vena accessoria inferior sinistra is uncommonly large. 9 A spine, having the aorta and ductus thoracicus injected; the latter yellow : the recepiaculum chyli is extremely capacious, and the thoracic duct very much convoluted. 10 The thoracic portion of the trunk, containing the aorta and its vessels, injected ; the pulmonary artery and ramifications are also injected and traced very minutely into the substance of the lungs. The venae accessoriae inferiores and ductus thoracicus are injected ; the receptaculum chyli is large. 11 A spine to which the aorta is attached and injected, the right carotid artery is the first branch arising from the transverse arch (the arteria innominata being w^anting), the left carotid the second, the left subclavian the third, and lastly, the right subclavian, wliich passes betrveen the bodies of the ver- tebrae and the oesophagus to its destination.33 NINTH DATS SALE. \Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,^ tot 12 The lower part of the trunk of a female subject; the aorta and vena cava are injected ; the renal, spermatic, and inferior mesenteric vessels traced to their several destinations : and both the external and internal sexual organs displayed. 13 A similar preparation to Lot 11, with the addition of the two venae cavae and their auricle being injected; the trachea and bronchi are also injected. N.B. These two preparations, viz. Lots 11 and 13, are exemplifications of that peculiar and incurable species of dysphagia, observable from infancy. Query ? Are not these cases recognizable in consequence of the pulse of the left wrist being much stronger than that of the right,, more especially during deglutition ? 14 A portion of the thorax, with the lower part of the trunk of a male sub- ject, having the corresponding portions of the aorta and vena cava in- jected of different colours, with their ramifications : the stomach is pre- served in situ naturali, stuffed, the vessels of which are beautifully seen, as well as those of the mesentery and mesocolon traced to the caecum, ascend- ing portion, and continuation of the colons The liver and gall-bladder are injected. The different bodies of the membrum virile are injected, afford- ing an admirable view of the bulb of the urethi*a, and a fine illustration of varicocele, in consequence of the veins of the spermatic chords being injected to the testes: the tunicae vaginales are dried hollow. 15 A spine, the aorta of which is injected red, the vena cava thoracica yellow, together with the venae subclaviae, the terminations of the venae jugulares internae and vena azygos. The receptaculum chyli and thoracic duct are injected with mercury ; the termination of the latter is preserved. 16 Ditto, the ductus thoracicus being less perfect. 17 Ditto, with the trachea and oesophagus, the entire of the thoracic duct, excepting just at its termination. 18 Ditto, with the thoracic duct forming several islets. 19 Ditto imperfect, but at the same time demonstrating three of the venae acces- soriae thoracis, forming a large reservoir at their union. Hernise, &c. 20 A hip-joint, the vessels of which are injected, the arteries red, and the veins yellow ; preserved for the purpose of showing an interesting specimen of merocele (femoral hernia). The relative situation of the internal epigas- .tric branch of the arteria iliaca externa on the outside of the disease, and of the spermatic chord passing through the canalis abdominalis and exter- nal abdominal ring, the crural arch, its crescentic margin, the situation of the disease on the vena femoralis communis, with the termination of the vena saphena major in the latter vessel, are all admirably displayed. 21 Ditto, with the half of the sacrum, forming a fine illustration of a case of large oscheocele (common scrotal liernia), at the bottom of which the tunica vaginalis, containing the testis, is apparent; also the remarkable but con- stant course that the internal epigastric artery pursues around the neck of the herniary sac in this disease. 22 Another preparation of the hip-joint and of hernia of more elaborate extent, illustrating a singular case of oblique bubonocele ; the bladder is distended, the vesiculae seminales, vasa deferentia, prostate gland and penis, are pre- served : the three bodies and bulb of the latter are well injected (large). The crura are also very distinct. The rectum is preserved in situ naturali, affording an illustration of the manner in which the bladder may be punctured per anum immediately behind the prostate gland and between the vasa deferentia. This preparation further elucidates the evil conse- quences likely to arise from the application of the pad of a truss to the54 NINTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser. LOT neck of a herniary sac, which in this subject is obliterated, although the sac itself remains perfect on the spermatic chord, and the canalis abdomi- ualis pervious ; at the lower part of which there is an infundibuliform cavity, surrounded by the internal epigastric artery, as before mentioned in Lot 21. N.B. All the vessels are injected, and most of the muscles and nerves preserved. 23 An elaborate and highly interesting case of hernia ventro-inguinalis, or direct bubonocele. In this preparation the internal epigastric artery is also preserved, and affords an example of the situation of the disease passing on its pubic side. The spermatic vessels and chord, with the testis and tunica vaginalis are retained, the latter being distended, as is also the bladder; the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia are in- jected, the prostate gland and membranous portion of the urethra are pre- served. The different bodies of which the membrum virile consists, with its crura and bulb, are distinct. N.B. All the arteries are injected; and most of the muscles appertaining to the hipjoint, with the crural arch and its crescentic margin, are dried in situ naturali. This preparation and the preceding afford illustrations of the relative situation of the bladder, and the internal pudic branches of the hypogastric artery, an accurate know- ledge of which is so essential to the lithotomist. 24 Another case of hernia equally important, inasmuch as it shows hernia con- genita of considerable magnitude in the adult subject, demonstrating the progress of the internal epigastric artery around the neck of the herniary sac, giving origin to the ramusculus spermaticus ; the latter in this spe- cimen is large. The arteries are injected. 25 A case’of large hernia ventro-inguinalis, likewise showing the origin and pro- gress of the internal epigastric artery, which of course passes on the iliac side of the disease. The arteries and many of the veins appertaining to the pelvis and upper part of the thigh are injected and traced. The penis, the muscles, spermatic chord, testis, and tunica vaginalis, are preserved in situ naturali. 26 A preparation of the pelvis (from which the sacrum has been removed) the upper part of the thighs, having all the vessels injected, the arteries red, and the veins yellow. In this fine specimen the bladder, vesiculae semi- nales, and vasa deferentia, are filled with wax. The three bodies of which the membrum virile consists, are well injected, its crura and bulb are dis- tinctly seen, also the membranous portion of the urethra ; the prostate gland is shrunk from drying. Further, this subject affords an illustration of variocele affecting both the spermatic chords and testes. The terminations of the venae saphenae majores are obvious. 27 Another pelvis; the arteries are injected, the sacrum removed; the penis remains attached. The internal epigastric branch of the hypogastric artery gives origin to the obturator, the situation of which, relative to the external abdominal ring, is clearly demonstrated. The crural arch is well seen in this preparation. 28 A fine specimen of a trunk, the spine is incurvated in a most extraor unary manner. The aorta with its ramifications, and the vcnse cavre with ir.ost of the veins which terminate in them, including the vena azygos, are in- jected of different colours: the whole being retained in situ naturali. The ductus thoracicus is also injected, and its tortuous course, accom- panying the inflections of the vertebrae, is traced to its termination. All the ribs on one side are preserved, and the halves of those of the corre- sponding, with the greater part of the pelvis, the crural arch, and ligaments. 29 A specimen, consisting of the upper part of the inferior extremity with half of the pelvis, from a female subject, affording an example of oblique bubonocele, following the passage of the ligamentum rotundum uteri through the external abdominal ring, and showing the course of the inter-x'TX.L1 X JLJL ^i, X Kj crrxxzir xsi ZJ^ {^Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT nal epigastric artery on the pubic side of the disease, as in the male sub- ject. The crescentic margin of the crural arch is very obvious. All the arteries are injected, and the muscles preserved, together with the nervus ischiaticus. 30 An arterial preparation of the female pelvis, the left side of which is distort- ed ; the upper part of the right os femoris remains articulated with the os innominatum. The origin and course of the internal epigastric arteries are seen, as also the crural arches. 31 The right half of the pelvis and thigh ; the arteries are injected, showing the deep seated inosculations between the gluteal and femoral arteries 5 many of the muscles are preserved. 32 An arterial preparation of the left half of the pelvis and thigh, in which the internal epigastric artery gives origin to the obturator. The pudic branch of the hypogastric artery is well seen. Many of the muscles and the ischiatic nerve are preserved. 33 A fine specimen of an injected placenta, the veins are yellow. 34 Ditto, the veins of which are injected green. . 35 Ditto, having a large, long, and tortuous funis umbilicalis. 36 Ditto, the veins injected green. 37 Ditto, but very large. 38 Ditto, of less magnitude, but nevertheless a beautiful preparation. I 39 Ditto. I 40 Ditto, the veins injected green, and a portion of both amnion and chorion pre- i served. : 41 Two small ditto. 42 A small beautiful specimen.TENTH DAY’S SALE. ] FRIDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. \ [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] j SALOON.—-GLASS CASE. Compartment C. Dried vascular Preparations of Heads, superior Extremities, thoracic ' Viscera, &c. LOT 1 A fine superior extremity, the arteries of which are injected : there are four l^rge and distinct arteries to the fore-arm, viz. the radial, a super- ficial cubital, a considerable median passing to the palm of the hand, with the corresponding nerve, and an interosseous artery. N.B. The nerves and ^ muscles are preserved. 2 Ditto, the arteries are distributed in the usual manner. 3 Ditto. 4 Ditto, the arteries very large. 5 Ditto. 6 Ditto, with an uncommonly fine ramus medianus advancing into the palm of the hand (beneath the ligamentum carpi annulare anticum), and there form- ing the cubital half of a large arcus superficialis. N.B. The three ramicol- laterales are very distinct. 7 Ditto, having the radial artery arising from the middle of the brachial, and forming a large ramus superficialis volm manus, inosculating with the arcus cubitalis. N.B. Most of the muscles and nerves are preserved in this beau- tiful preparation. j 8 Is an arterial preparation of the superior extremity, having the ramus infra J scapularis arterige axillaris extremely well traced, the ramusculus com- i municans is seen passing beneath the acromion scapulae to inosculate i with the ramus suprascapularis. It also gives origin to the ramus cir- cumflexus posterior, which is traced into the substance of the musculus del- toides, the latter being much raised. The three rami collaterales arterise brachialis are also dissected, the profundus minor down to the elbow in the substance of the triceps. The arteria cubitalis forms a fine arcus superfi- cialis, and the ramus profundus is dissected beneath the flexor tendons of the fingers to its inosculation with the arcus radialis. The rami recurrentes of the three arteries of the fore-arm are also very obvious. N.B. AH the muscles, with the fascia bicipitalis and nerves, are preserved. ‘9 A beautiful arterial preparation, having the majority of the branches of the ax- illary, brachial, radial, cubital, and interosseal arteries, injected and dissected : There is likewise a large median artery in this preparation, passing be- neath the ligamentum carpi annulare subsequently forming the radial half of the arcus superficialis manus. 10 Is an arterial preparation of the fore-arm ; the three rami recurrentes are dis- 1 sected to the lower part of the os brachii; the radial artery produces a large 'j ramus superficialis volae manus, the triple termination of the radial artery in 5 the ramus magnus pollici.s, ramus indicis, and ramus profundus, is .seen, the j latter being traced through the deep-seated part of the palm of the hand J to its anastomosis with the arteria cubitalis, whose arcus superficialis is well | displayed. 1 11 Is a handsome preparation of the radial artery, arising from the brachial j above its middle) the ramus medianus arteriae interossias communis is lar®'"* ^57 TP:NTH DxiY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid hy the Purchaser.'] LOT and traced (beneath the ligamentiim carpi annulare anticum) into the palm of the hand, where it forms with the radial artery the arcus superficialis. 12 Is an arterial preparation of a fore-arm and hand, the lower part of the ra- dial artery passes preternaturally and anteriorly to the tendons of the ex- tensor muscles of the thumb, consequently much exposed to accidents 5 the arteria cubitalis produces an interesting arcus superficialis. All the muscles are preserved. 13 A superior extremity, having a superficial cubital artery arising from the bra- chial above its middle, and forming a handsome arcus superficialis volse. The termination of the radial is traced, as is also the arcus profundus. 14 Is a choice superior extremity, the arteries are well injected and dissected. N.B. The ramus circumflexus posterior does not arise from the axillary artery, but from the brachial, ramifying upwards to the under surface of the deltoid muscle from below the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. 15 Is an unexampled specimen of the cubital artery passing beneath the ligamen- tum carpi annulare anticum. This undoubtedly unique preparation affords also a fine illustration of the lower part of the radial artery, proceeding above the extensor tendons of the thumb, in this respect similar to Lot 12. The arcus cubitalis and profundus are beautifully displayed, as well as the rami collaterales arteriae brachialis, and the three rami recurrentes of the arteries of the fore-arm. All the muscles are preserved as well as the fascia bicipitalis. 16 A fine illustration of a high division of the brachial artery: in fact, there are two brachial arteries formed by a bifurcation of the axillary. The radial produces a large ramus superficialis volae, and by its inosculation with the arcus cubitalis exhibits a beautiful vascular display in the'palm of the hand. The ramus infra-scapularis and many other branches are also dissected. 17 An arterial preparation, the whole of the muscles are preserved. 18 Ditto, affording a beautiful view of the ramus superficialis volse arteriae radialis inosculating with the arcus cubitalis manus. 19 An injection and dissection of the arteries of a superior extremity, from a young subject. 20 An arterial extremity: the rami collaterales of the arm, and recurrentes of the fore- arm are preserved ; the arcus superficialis is beautifully displayed, and the ramus superficialis volse very obvious. 21 Ditto. 22 Ditto, the ramus superficialis volse is not quite so distinct, but the arcus super- ficialis is dissected as in all the three last preparations. 23 Ditto, with the ramus superficialis volae passing under the ligamentUm carpi annulare anticum. 24 Another highly useful extremity. 25 A preparation of the fore-arm and hand; the arteries are well injected. 26 A most interesting vascular preparation of the brachial artery on which the ope- ration for aneurism w^as performed by Mr. Lynn. In this choice speci- men the brachial artery being of course divided by the press?ue of the ligature, the fore-arm was supplied with blood by a very considerable en- largement of the ramus profundus minor, inosculating with the ramus anastomoticus, also of considerable magnitude. Presented by William Lynn, Esq. 27 An arterial extremity with a beautiful arcus superficialis; all the collateral branches are traced; the ramus circumflexus posterior arises from the brachial. 28 Ditto, the ramus circumflexus posterior having its usual origin. 29 An arterial extremity. In this preparation the ramusculiis dorsalis transmits a very considerable ramification, which inosculates with the supra-scapularis. Both the radial and cubital arches are well seen. 30 Ditto, with a rich display of branches about the scapula: it is altogether a I58 TENTH DAY^S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT beautiful preparation ; the principal nerves and nearly all the muscles arc preserved. 31 A fine arterial extremity, preserved, with its muscles and nerves. 32 Ditto. 33 Ditto. 34 An extremity in which the arteries and veins are both injected, the lat- ter yellow. There is a large ramus superficialis volae, and a beautiful ar- cus superficialis. N.B. This interesting preparation was injected by Mr. Brookes about 25 years ago, with a solution of the bichloride of mercury, previous to the ceraceous matter being thrown into the arteries, and is pre- sumed to be imperishable by the ordinary atmospherical agencies. 35 An arterial and venous extremity. 36 A particularly interesting preparation of the fore-arm, in which the arteries are well injected, especially the arcus cubitalis. 37 An arterial and venous extremity. 38 An interesting preparation of the arteries and veins (the latter injected green). In this extremity the arcus superficialis is beautifully displayed. 39 A specimen of an arterial and venous extremity. 40 A vascular bijou, consisting of a superior extremity, in which the arteries and veins are injected of dift'erent colours and beautifully displayed. 41 An uncommonly fine extremity, the arteries and veins of which are well in- jected and admirably dissected. 42 An arterial and venous preparation. 43 A preparation of the arteries and veins. In this superior extremity the nerves are all dissected, even to their minute ramifications, and painted white. The veins are blue : the arcus superficialis and profundus are dis- played, and their communicating branches traced : the fascia bicipitalis is also preserved. Dissected and presented by — Stewart, Esq. 44 A useful superior extremity both arterial and venous j the fascia palmaris is preserved, the arcus superficialis picturesque, and the digital nerves traced. 45 Ditto ; the vena basilica, cephalica and mediana are large and injected green. 46 Another extremity; the veins are injected yellow, and the venae satellites arteriae radialis well seen. 47 Ditto, having a display of the veins of the fore-arm. 48 An arterial superior extremity; the radial artery of which arises from the upper part of the brachial. * 48 An uncommonly fine preparation of the head and neck, the arteries and veins of which are extremely well injected. The globe of the eye is removed from the left orbit, by which means a view is afforded of the subjacent vessels; it is retained in the right, and inflated. In this splendid specimen the nerves are also dissected. N.B. The falx major and tentorium, the sinus longitudi- nalis superior, inferior, and laterales are seen. The larynx is preserved; ossified. 49 Ditto, the veins are not numerous. In this preparation the lingual arteries are displayed. The process of the lower jaw on the left side being removed, a view is afforded of the ramifications of the internal maxillary artery; the inferior maxillary branch of which is seen passing through the canalis mentalis. The vertebral branch of the subclavian artery is traced through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the vertebrae colli. The thyroid gland is large, as is its isthmus. The Stenonian duct is injected blue, from the parotid gland to its termination in the mouth, passing through the buccinator muscle. 50 A fine arterial head and neck, with the first vertebra dorsi and ribs. The right side being injected from the arteria innominata, tfle progress of the subcla- vian artery is traced above the first rib, and the vertebral into the foramina cer- vicalia. The left subclavian is also retained, showing its passage anterior to the first rib, giving origin to its vertebral branch, which is dissected through theTENTH DAY^ SALE. 59 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser LOT foramen magnum terminating in the basilhry j the first tortuous inflectionj be- tween the vertebra dentata and atlas, and second,, between the atlas and os occipitale, are very distinct 5 also the linguales, and their course on the under surface of the tongue is traced to its tip. The larynx is ossified, and the trachea partially so : many of the nerves are dissected, affording a good demonstration of the pedes anserini. 51 Ditto, with the larynx and three vertebrae colli. The canalis mentalis is laid open on the right side, showing the course of the inferior maxillary artery 3 and the condyloid processes of the lower jaw are removed to. give a view of the branches of the internal maxillary. The lingual arteries are very distinct. 52 Ditto, with all the vertebrae colli and larynx. The condyles of the lower jaw are removed, exhibiting the ramifications of the internal maxillary artery. The interior of each canalis mentalis is exposed, displaying their correspond- ing arteries. The vertebrals are traced on both sides through the foramina cervicalia to their destination, 53 The head and neck of a negro j the arteries are well injected and extensively dissected. The condyloid process of the lower jaw is removed on the right side, consequently an interesting view is obtained of the tortuous course and ramifications of the internal maxillary branch of the external carotid artery, as well as the inferior maxillary ramification of the former, seen in its progress through the canalis mentalis. The left vertebral is also traced to its destination. Some of the nerves are likewise dissected in this fine I preparation. The os hyoides is preserved: the larynx and trachea, pharynx I and oesophagus are dried hollow. i 54 A splendid arterial preparation of the head. The os hyoides is retained: I the larynx and part of the trachea, pharynx and a portion of the oesophagus, I are preserved hollow. Four superior vertebrae colli, with the musculi recti i capitis postici majores, and minores, with the obliqui superiores and inferiores, I are dissected and dried, as are also the musculi digastrici, and the insertions ! of the splenii capitis. Without enumerating particular branches, it is suffi- I cient to say, that the course of the cerebrals and vertebrals, and the whole of ' the ramifications of the external carotid, are beautifully displayed. The tor- ^ tuous ramifications of the latter, with the inflexions of the former, are re- markably conspicuous. A view is also aflbrded of the velum pendulum palati, I uvula and fauces, falx major, minor, and tentorium. I 55 An excellent arterial preparation of the head and neck 3 the process of the lower jaw is removed on the left side, affording a clear view of all the ramifications of the internal maxillary artery, and especially of that which enters the foramen maxillare posticum, and passes through the ca- nalis mentalis 3 the left vertebral is traced throughout its course, and is well seen. The larynx and part of the trachea, pharynx, and a portion of the oesophagus, with many of the nerves, and the pes anserinus on the right side, are dissected and traced. 56 A perfect vascular bijou of the head and throat. All the arteries are seen. The distribution of the branches of the external carotid is highly grati- fying, especially of the left external maxillary, and its coronary rami- fications. The larynx and pharynx are preserved, The posterior part of the os occipitale is removed, showing the connection of the two vertebrales with the basilary artery, which is traced to its termination. Many of the veins are very well injected, especially the ophthalmic and their anasto- moses with the angular. 57 A fine vascular head, in which the arteries are traced, many of the veins, and some nerves. The pharynx and part of the oesophagus, the larynx and a portion of the trachea, are preserved hollow. The globes of the eyes are retained in situ naturali, and dried hollow. The parotid gland on the right side is also preserved, and the Stenonian duct injected. A portion of the 12 L60 TENTH DAY’S SALE. ^ LOT 58 59 \J)uiy to he imid by the PtD'chaaer.^ calvaria is removed, affording a view of the interior of the cranium, and the different processes of the dura mater. Is a vascular preparation of the head and neck, rich in the display of its ar- teries, and highly interesting in its veins. This choice specimen is the in- dividual from which the popular print has been taken, exhibited in the Anatomical Libraries, and Printsellers’ windows everywhere. Dissected and presented by Dr. Hooper. A fine venous head. In consequence of a portion of the calvaria being re- moved from each side, a display is presented of the veins of the dura and pia mater, of the falces and tentorium, with the venous terminations in the different sinuses. The ophthalmic veins are obvious, and many of the arteries are injected. 60 A preparation of the face and part of the head, showing the dura mater properly distended, the sinus longitudinale superior, its termination, with the course and exit of the lateral sinuses. 61 A basis of the cranium with a part of the neck; a portion of the tentorium is retained, for the purpose of showing the progress and exit of the lateral sinuses. 62 A preparation of the scalp. 63 An arterial head, exhibiting a view of the three meatus nasi: the Schnei- derian membrane is well injected, covering the ossa turbinata; a piece of wire is passed through the canalis nasalis into the meatus inferior, and a piece of tape into the tuba Eustachiana. The external part of the cranium is well injected, as is also the dura mater. 64< Ditto: the process of the lower jaw has been removed, showing the ramifi- cations of the internal maxillary artery. The pia mater is preserved in this preparation. 65 Ditto. In this specimen the coronoid process only is sawn off. 66 The head of a young subj ect, having all the muscles of the face and maxiiisB dried and preserved in situ naturali; there is also a view of the falces and tentorium. 67 A bisected arterial head. 68 Ditto : the arteries of the dura mater are finely injected, and an excellent view' presented of the fauces and pharynx. 69 Ditto, and of the septum nasi, the falces and part of the tentorium, the fauces, the Eustachian tube, and pharynx. The entrance of one vertebral artery terminating in the basilary, its ramifications, and those of the cerebral arte- ry are displayed. 70 Ditto, having the veins also injected. In this preparation the ophthalmic artery and vein are both displayed. The parotid gland andStenonian duct are preserved. There is an excellent view of the ossa turbinata and meatus nasi. The entrance of the canalis nasalis, through which a piece of wire has been passed, is demonstrable. The fauces, Eustachian tube, pha- rynx and larynx are also exhibited, likewise the termination of the ver- tebral in the basilary artery. The processes of the dura mater are pre- served, and the torcular Herophili and venous sinuses are injected yellow, in this bisected head. 71 Ditto: the arteries of the septum nasi are large and well injected, and the process of the lower jaw removed, showing the ramification of the maxillary artery. The vertebral artery is well displayed. 72 A blood-vessel cranium: the processes of the low'erjaw are removed on both sides, by which means there is a fine exhibition of the internal maxillary arteries. The canalis mentalis being laid open on the right side affords a view of the course of the inferior maxillary artery within it. The tongue, velum pendulum palati, uvula, fauces, pharynx, and epiglottis, the falces and tentorium, are all retained in situ naturali.TENTH DATS HAJ^ET- [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser. 61 LOT 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 .80 ‘81 82 S3 .84 85 86 87 88 89 A preparation of a large heart, well injected and supported on a mahogany stand. The auricles, ventricles, and vessels corroded, of the pulmonic and cor- poreal hearts. The transverse arch of the aorta, giving origin to the arteria vertebralis sinis- tra, and its other three ordinary branches; and an injected kidney with the pelvis. A ventricle. The lungs of a cat, injected by the trachea and bronchi. An aorta with the vavulae semilunares ; and an example of a considerably en- larged pelvis renis. The aorta giving origin to a left arteria vertebralis, in addition to its other or- dinary branches; having the three valvulae seminulares preserved, the trachea, and its bronchi, together with the oesophagus. The entire aorta of a nonogenarian, considerably above six feet in stature, having the left vertebral arising from its transverse arch: the other branches, the larger trunks, and the valvulae semilunares, are also preserved. There are considerable patches of ossification in various parts of this specimen. The pulmonic half of the heart corroded. A kidney dried, having all its ves- sels, pelvis and ureter, injected of various colours : and a preparation of the posterior part of the bladder, with the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia injected yellow. The prostate gland is preserved. '90 The transverse arches of two aortse, their vessels and valves, and the pul- 91 monary artery, with its valves. -92 ' The transverse arch of the aorta with its valves dried hollow; and two foetal hearts, one injected, the other dried hollow. A kidney, the vessels, pelvis, and ureter of which are injected of different colours; and a preparation of the cavic and pulmonic auricles, the septum auricularum, and its valvula ovalis is retained. * The trunk of a foetus injected, both arteries and veins ; the heart in situ na- 9 6 turali; the umbilical vessels, the vena porta and ductus venosus, are preserved. 97 The heart of a turtle (Chelonia Midas), injected. 98 Part of the thorax of a foetus, with a heart injected, showing the canalis arte- 99 riosus. A corroded heart of a young subject. [00 An aorta injected. lOl The heart of a turtle (Chelonia Midas), injected. “lOgThe transverse arch, sinus aortae and valves, with the pulmonary artery and valves, injected of different colours. The heart of an ass (Equus Asinus), having all its vessels injected. The heart of an otter (Lutra fluviatilis), injected. 105 A handsome preparation of an injected heart and pulmonary vessels. 106 'The thoracic viscera and liver of a foetus, injected and retained in situ naturali. 107 The trunk of a foetus, having the heart, canalis arteriosus, the umbilical ves- sels and ductus venosus, with the arterise umbilicales, &c., all injected and preserved. 108 A heart from a young subject: injected and dried. 109 Ditto, from a young lady about twenty years of age, who committed suicide by shooting herself through the thorax ; the track of the ball crossed the inferior portion of the aortic ventricle just above the apex. 110 The heart and lungs of a young subject: injected and dried. 111 The heart of an aged subject, well injected: the arteriae coronariae are very tortuous ; the venae innominatae, terminating in the cavic auricle, indepen* dently of the vena coronaria cordis, are obvious.62 TENTH HAY'S SALE. \J)uty to be 'paid by the Purchaser. LOT 112 A finely injected heart of an adult subject. 113 An extraordinary preparation of the kidney, the pelvis of which is of an enormous size. 114 The thorax, containing its viscera, well injected and dried. A section has been made into the pericardium, which is somewhat separated from the heart, forming altogether an interesting preparation : from a young subject. A preparation of an injected heart in the adult subject, in which the venae innominatae may be seen distinctly, terminating in the cavic auricle. Ditto. Ditto. The sinus aortae and part of its transverse arch; the valvulae semilunares are distinct. A pulmonary artery, the valvulae sigmoidales of which are ob- vious, and a specimen of an injected spleen : dried. A fine illustration of hypertrophia cordis : well injected. 122 Ditto, in which the morbid enlargement is very considerable indeed : taken from a patient who died suddenly. 123 An excellent specimen of the thoracic viscera, injected and interestingly dis- played ; the lungs are fully expanded with ceraceous matter, thrown in by the trachea, producing the precise and natural appearance of the hoof of a bisulcated animal, in a posterior view. ^ 124 A kidney, the vessels of which are injected, as are also the pelvis and ureter, c 125 A specimen of the heart of a swan (Cygnus Olor): injected, with itsvessels. 126 A specimen of the heart. 127 A preparation of the cavic and pulmonic ventricles; dried, exhibiting a view of the septum auricularum and valvula ovalis. 128 The basis of the cranium ; the inferior maxillary bone is divided, showing the fauces and posterior nares. 129 The trunk of a foetus at about eight months of gestation ; having the heart, liver, and other viscera, as well as the neck, injected. 130 The cranium of a foetus at about seven months of gestation: dried, forming a neat preparation. 131 A specimen of the left kidney, showing the long renal vein which passes anterior to the aorta, for the purpose of pouring its blood into the vena cava abdominalis, a portion of which is also preserved. 132 An uncommonly fine natural skeleton of a child soon afterbirth. 133 The cranium of a foetus between eight and nine months of gestation, the ossa parietalia are removed, showing its interior, the tentorium, &c. 134 An arterial cranium, wdth part of the neck, pharynx, and larynx; from a sub- ject at the age of twelve months. 135 Ditto, somewhat older ; affording an excellent display of the teeth : the ex- ternal surface of the alveolar process, being removed from the superior and inferior maxillary bones, the situation of the deciduous and some per- sistent teeth is rendered very obvious. 136 The cranium of a subject at about the age of twelve months, in which sec- tions have been made on each side of the sagittal and frontal sutures for the purpose of obtaining a view of the interior. 137 A specimen of an aorta of the adult subject, injected. 115 116 117 ril8 J 119 L120 121ELEVENTH DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] SALOON. Compartment D. Pelves, many of which are remarkable for extreme distortion, or are otherwise very much diseased: in some, the acetabula are obliterated; and in one, there are even four acetabula. There are among them pelves from both sexes in a sane state : this Case also contains several vertebral columns, both of a natural and preternatural conformation. LOT 1 A pelvis from a patient afflicted with an immense osteo-chondromatous tumor, originating from the os sacrum, and'nearly filling the entire cavity. This extraordinary pelvis having been too long macerated (forgotten), the tumor became detached and almost entirely dissolved. Obtained through the kindness of Thomas Copland, Esq. 2 A fine specimen of a female pelvis. 3 A female pelvis with the ligaments, portions of the ossa femorum, and all the vertebrae of the loins ; the second and third have their bodies in a carious state, occasioned by lumbar abscess, the cyst of which is preserved with the remains of the psoas muscle. 4 A pelvis from a young male subject, exhibiting some trifling indications of scrofula. 5 A most extraordinary pelvis from a young female subject; the acetabula ate quite obliterated, in consequence of being extensively affected by the mor- bus coxendicis ; with faint traces of incipient formations of two new aceta- bula. N.B. In this pelvis the left os innominatum is much lower than the right, a circumstance arising probably from the left side being first affected. 6 A distorted female pelvis, taken from a subject post partum. Between the promontory of the os sacrum, and the midffle of the left os pubis, there is not one inch and a half of space, and on the opposite side an inch and three quarters only. N.B. This very interesting pelvis appertained to the unfortunate woman whose case is recorded by the late Dr. Blegbo- rough in the Med. and Phys. Journal. A rupture of the cervix uteri had taken place, through which the foetus and secundines passed into the abdomen; both are preserved in spirits in Compartment Y, Lot 38, with the identical uterus ; and the precise mode of the escape of the ovum from the lacerated uterus may be observed in an uncommonly fine painted cast of the same in the Saloon, Lot . Compartment I. 7 A well formed female pelvis, with portions of the ossa femorum ; all the liga- ments are preserved; the clitoris, and plexus retiformis, are injected and retained in situ naturali. 8 The most interesting pelvis from a female which perhaps ever was seen. In this extraordinary specimen there are four acetabula, the ossa femora having been luxated by the action of the muscles, in consequence of absorption of the margins of the original acetabula, by the depascent6t ELEVENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT nature of the morbus coxarius. N.B. The left os femoris is anchylosed J with its corresponding newly formed acetabulum in nearly a vertical direc- ; tion, and from its absolute inutility the os innominatum is extremely dimi- nished. The head of the right os femoris has the semblance of having been fractured across within its capsular ligament, which is preserved dry, but was opened by Sir Astley Cooper for an investigation at the instance of Mr. Brookes. The margin of its newly formed acetabulum projects half an ' inch over the greater ischiatic notch! 9 Another fine female pelvis with portions of the ossa femorum, the right os femoris was fractured within the ligamentum capsulare, and remained im- ' united at the time of the patient’s death. 10 A remarkable example of anchylosis of the ossa innominata, with the sacrum. ' 11 An unusual instance of fracture through the right os innominatum, re- || united. N.B. This pelvis was taken from the male subject the scapula; of which is to be found in Compartment P. lot 37, and sternum in Compart- ment R. lot 49, the fore-arm was in Compartment O. of the former sale : all fractured and re-united ! 12 An extraordinary case of united fracture of the os pubis, and ramus ischii ; of the left side, and of a diagonal fracture through the sacrum; in a male subject. I 13 The pelvis very much fractured, from dreadful violence, which had at the same time so much injured the contained viscera as to occasion death. 14 A specimen of the lower part of the vertebral column (incurvated) of the pelvis and right os femoris, the head of which has been altogether ab- sorbed, and its acetabulum entirely obliterated, in consequence of the mor- bus coxarius. A peculiar feature of this disease is most interestingly dis- played in the obliquity of the affected side of the pelvis. Vide Mr. Ford’s j excellent work on Diseases of the Hip-joint, in which there is a plate representing the above case. Presented by T. Copland, Esq. The con- ’ trast between the site of the morbid and sound acetabulum is particularly obvious. 15 An interesting specimen of a bisected adult spinal column well articulated. 16 The dorsal vertebrae, with many ribs, affected with syphilis. N.B. There are 13 ribs in this preparation. 17 Anchylosis of two dorsal and three lumbar vertebrae. ■ 18 A ligamentous preparation of the spine of a young subject; the bodies of some vertebrae wanting. , 19 A complete spinal column of a young subject; moveable, and interesting. ; 20 A ligamentous preparation of the cervical, dorsal, and three superior lumbar I vertebrae. N.B. The two first ribs are articulated with the transverse processes of the seventh cervical vertebra; there are only eleven dorsal ribs appertaining to this singular specimen. 21 A ligamentous preparation of the whole of the spinal column and pelvis of a young subject. 22 All the dorsal and some lumbar vertebrae of an incurvated spine. 23 Ditto, with the last cervical and two first lumbar vertebrae. j 24 Anchylosed vertebrae and infantile spines. 1. 25 Adult cervical vertebrae, having red bougies passed through the foramina cervicalia, as substitutes for the vertebral arteries; and a foetal spine, ex- hibiting the cause of hydrorachitis from the deficiency of the spinous pro- cesses of the lower lumbar vertebrae and upper part of the sacrum. 26 A specimen of anchylosis of the four last cervical with the first dorsal ver- tebra and a foetal vertebral column. ^ 27 Various specimens of anchylosed vertebrae. 28 A specimen of irregular fracture of the os innominatum through the dorsum ilei; and a specimen of anchylosis of the sacrum with the os innominatum.ELEVENTH DAY’S SALE. 65 {I)uty to be paid by the Purchaser LOT The IcTst dorsal, and four lumbar vertebrae, with the last ribs, being the (Iiir- f teenth pair. LsO All the seven cervical vertebrae. r31 A fine specimen of anchylosis of the os innominatnm with the sacrum. I 32 The two last dorsal and three superior lumbar vertebrae. {I4 35 A specimen of anchylosis of the dorsal vertebrae with some of the ribs. 36 Interesting specimens of anchylosis of many of the dorsal and of the lumbar vertebrae. 37 A tray containing anchylosed, articulated, and individual vertebrae. 38 A most extraordinary instance of fractured and reunited tibia and fibula, with anchylosis of the three bones constituting the knee-joint>—Presented by-—Walmsley^ Esq. 39 Another uncommonly fine example of anchylosis of the knee-joint. The entire of the tibia and os femoris are preserved. Presented by Nathaniel Pointer, Esq. 40 Ditto; the halves only of the os femoris, tibia, and fibula. 41 Ditto of a younger subject, the patella wanting; remarkable on account of the elongation of the condyles of the os femoris. 42 An interesting specimen of anchylosis of the knee-joint, affording at the same time a beautiful example of necrosis of the os femoris, and disease of the whole of the tibia and fibula. I 43 A specimen of anchylosis of several lumbar and dorsal vertebra ; with one rib. ! 44 A diseased knee-joint. 45 An interesting example of anchylosis of the os brachii with the ulna. N.B. In this curious specimen the olecranon has been absorbed, in consequence of the loss of action of the triceps. 46 Ditto in this preparation the olecranon has been preserved entire. 47 Ditto ; the lower half of the os brachii. 48 Diseased ribs ; some fractured. 49 A diseased knee-joint, exhibiting a fine example of osseous efflorescence of the patella. 50 The sacrum anchylosed with the two last lumbar vertebrae, and otherwise dis- eased ; also the lower portion of a tibia: exhibiting an illustration of the osseous nodus syphiliticus, 51 A choice specimen of anchjdosed phalanges digitorum with the metacarpus, and that to the carpus ; with the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, also much diseased. 52 Ditto. 53 Ditto, less extensively affected. 54 A diseased knee-joint. 55 Ditto. 56 Ditto. 57 The foot and ankle-joint anchylosed, and otherwise in a morbid state. 58 A tray containing the lower part of the tibia anchylosed with the astragalus ; another portion of tibia also in a morbid state, and a diseased head of the os brachii. 59 A fine specimen of the morbus coxarius. 60 An adult cranium, to which the atlas is anchylosed. 61 A basis of ditto, having all the cervical vertebrae anchylosed. N.B. The foramen magnum occipitale is much diminished in this specimen, affording a contrast to the preceding lot, in which the foramen magnum is preserved entire. 62 A specimen of a case of fracture of three superior cervical vertebrae anchylosed together, and also with the os occipitale. In this very extraordinary pre- paration it seems as though there were two foramina magna occipitalia. K66 Eleventh DAY’S sale. ^ W \_DiUy to be paid by the Purchaser.] « LOT 63 A female pelvis, well articulated. I 64 A male ditto, with portions of the femora, three lumbar vertebrae, and all | the ligaments preserved. N.B. An abscess in the trochanter major of 1 the left os femoris extends into the acetabulum. | 65 A specimen of a well-formed female pelvis, with some of the ligaments. ] N.B. This pelvis furnishes proof of the individual having been a mother. ; 66 A male ditto, from a subject about the period of adolescence. ^ 67 A distorted pelvis, with all the lumbar vertebrae, and some of the liga- i merits, from a female who had borne children notwithstanding the defor- ‘ mity. This individual pelvis is remarkable, inasmuch as the symphysis pubis is ossified ; and further, the left sacro.iliac symphysis is apparently ossified. 68 A well-formed female pelvis connected by ligaments. N.B. The lineae ilio- pectineae are very acute. 69 A male pelvis, the two last lumbar vertebras and ligaments. 70 A female pelvis, somewhat distorted. 71 A fine female pelvis, having the four last lumbar vertebrae and ligaments, with the crural arch and its crescentic margin, preserved. There are indications of a morbid condition of both acetabula. 72 A very robust male pelvis, with four lumbar vertebrae and ligaments. N.B, The ligamenta interna acetabulorum are preserved. 73 A good specimen of the female pelvis, with ligaments. 74 A robust male pelvis, with two lumbar vertebrae. 75 An elegant pelvis, with part of one os femoris, from a female who bad borne children. 76 A well-articulated male pelvis. SALOON. I Com FARTMENT E. A glass case, containing various, sane and distorted, human Skele- tons, Crania, some showing the ultimate effects of the operation of the trephine upon the bone, others exhibiting the consequences of the S3^philitic virus, and several phagedenic maladies: many | are remarkable for great diversity of suture, and present several striking phrenological manifestations, &c. &c. This Case like- wise contains choice and possibly unique specimens of incurva- tions of the Spine, Caries, Anchyloses, &c.; besides a multitude of cylindrical bones extensively diseased; many fine vertebral columns articulated, and parcels of other bones. LOT 1 A magnificent male skeleton of the adult human subject upwards of six feet six inches in stature, with natural costal cartilages. 2 Ditto, about six feet in stature. 3 Dftto, a most extraordinary ligamentous skeleton of an Ethiopian having six lumbar vertebrae. N.B. Tlie subject of the present lot was dissected by Dr. Wallis at Dr. Marshall’s Theatre of Anatomy. 4 A skeleton of an adult male, articulated in a very simple and novel manner. 5 A fine adult male skeleton. 6 Ditto. Presented by Dr. Blegborough. 7 All extraordinary skeleton of a female subject, the pelvis and inferior extremities of which are very much distorted. 8 Ditto, tlie spine of which is considerably incurvated. N.B. This skeleton is firmly articulated and in a standing position. 9 Ditto, of less stature. 10 Ditto, the spine of which is extensively affected with caries.ELHSVENTH DATS SALE. G7 [Duty to he'paid hy the Purchaser.'] LOT 11 Ditto, caries having attacked the cervical and dorsal vertebrae. 12 A beautiful skeleton of a young female, standing in the attitude of the Venus de Medicis. 13 The thorax of an adult subject, the bodies of four lumbar vertebrae having been destroyed by caries, are consolidated into an osseous bridge anterior to the spinal chord. N.B. The corresponding spinous processes form so considerable a knuckle or projecting angle, that the upper part of the trunk and head must have been in a horizontal position, with the face looking downward, 14 An interesting specimen of a trunk and pelvis, the vertebral column of which is extremely distorted, and the ribs correspondingly deranged. 15 A ligamentous preparation of an adult human thorax. 16 An uncommon fine specimen of the vertebral column and pelvis; the former very much incurvated. 17 Ditto. 18 Ditto. 19 Ditto, an entire thorax and spine. 20 Ditto, with the pelvis. 21 Ditto, with the sacrum only. 22 Ditto, with a preternatural conformation of the sternum (having a large hole therein, from deficient ossification). N.B. There are 13 pairs of ribs in this preparation. 23 A natural thorax and pelvis. 24 A valuable specimen of a trunk, with an entire thorax and pelvis: about I four of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae have been aftected with caries, but are restored by subsequent osseous secretion, and are now anchylosed. I The left os innominatum exhibits the remarkable phaenomenon of two i acetabula, the original being somewhat obliterated, but the newly formed I one is very distinct, and a most singular articulation is produced between the upper part of the os femoris, and the transverse branch of the os pubis, indicative of the limb being generally retained in a vertical direction, hav- ing lateral motion only, somewhat analogous in appearance to the os fe- I moris anchylosed in a similar situation in one of the morbid pelves for« I merly described in Glass-case D. which has four acetabula. 25 A trunk, with a well-articulated thorax and pelvis. 26 A lot of sane bones. |27 Ditto. 28 Ditto. 29 Ditto. 30 Ditto. 31 Ditto. 32 Ditto. 33 Ditto, 34 Ditto. 35 Ditto. 36 Ditto. 37 Ditto. 38 Ditto. 39 Ditto. 40 Ditto. 41 Ditto. Osteological Pathology. 42 An os femoris attacked with exostosis, and a tibia very extensively diseased. 43 An os femoris, tibia, and fibula, diseased. 44 The os femoris, tibia, and lower part of a tibia and fibula, diseased. 45 An os femoris and tibia very much diseased, the latter being anchylosed with the astragalus,on. j^X77 ()8 ETTEi V Jl.iN 111 U2Y1 o [Duty to he'paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 46 A morbid os femoris, and a tibia which has been fractured and re-united. 47 An os femoris which had been fractured and well re-united, although diseased at its inferior extremity ; and a tibia affected with abscess. 48 An os femoris, and two tibite incurvated. 49 A remarkably short os femoris and tibia, both incurvated. 50 A pair of femora, one having an acute exostosis arising from its surface ; the other has the patella anchylosed with its external condyle. 51 An os femoris, and tibia incurvated. 52 An os femoris, two tibim, and an os brachii in a diseased state. 53 An os femoris and a tibia, both much diseased, the latter having had an ab- scess situated at its anterior spine. 54 An os femoris, tibia and fibula, incurvated. 55 A tibia, os brachii, and upper part of the os femoris, very much diseased. 56 Choice specimens of two diseased femora, and a tibia anchylosed with its fibula, replete with exuberant spiculas and partial ossification of the liga- mentum interosseum. 57 Very interesting specimens of fracture of the lower extremity of the tibia, with partial ossification of the ligamentum patellas, and fracture of the upper part of the fibula, occurring many years previously to the death of the patient. 58 A diseased os femoris, tibia, and fibula; the two latter bones have not been separated. 59 The left os femoris, tibia and fibula, os brachii, radius and ulna of Ilyams Lazarus a Jew, executed with Levi Veal (whose skeleton is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons) for the murder of Mrs. .Hutchinson, a widow lady at Chelsea, more than half a century ago. Presented by the late Mrs. Sheldon. 60 An os femoris very much diseased. 61 A pair of femora extremely long, very much diseased. 62 Three pairs of tibiae and fibulae, very much diseased ; one tibia and fibula fractured towards the ankle, and anchylosed together. 63 A pair of morbid femora, the neck of one is much shortened by absorption, and both exhibit fine specimens of porcelanic secretion produced by the friction of the patella. 64 Ditto; the head of one is much altered from its natural figure in consequence of morbus coxarius, and exhibits a fine example of porcelanic secretion from friction on the dorsum ilei; the other having the porcelanic secretion on the superior surface of its external condyle, produced by the patellae. 65 The upper part of the os femoris, two tibiae, and an os brachii; all very much diseased. 66 The tibia and fibula incurvated, with the radius and ulna articulated : the two last being much ufi’ected with osteitis. 67 An os femoris and tibia, the former fractured very obliquely about its middle, reunited and exhibiting instances of numerous spiculae; the latter is very much enlarged. 68 A pair of femora: the head of one is distorted in consequence of morbus cox- arius having produced luxation, and from friction exhibits the appearance of extensive porcelanic secretion j the other is considerably aft'ected with osteitis towards its inferior extremity. 69 An os femoris fractured very obliquely and reunited : when the accident oc- curred, a long and acute spicula was formed, now rendered obtuse ; also a tibia enlarged from disease. 70 A pair of tibiae j one apparently fractured. 71 One os femoris, the upper portion of a second, and a tibia, all diseased ; the inferior extremity of the femur is incurvated towards its condyles.TWELFTH DAY’S SALE. TUESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment E. continued. LOT 72 An extraordinary example of an os femoris dreadfully fractured towards its inferior extremity, and shockingly reunited. The tibia is much diseased at its head, with which the condyles of the os femoris are anchylosed. 73 An os femoris and tibia j both bones have been fractured and reunited, the tibia exhibits a large spicula extending towards the fibula. 74 A case of fracture of the os femoris, reunited through an extremely exube- rant osseous secretion j apparently the two portions of the fractured bone were never brought into contact. 75 An example of a fractured tibia and fibula reunited. 7b A tibia with its corresponding fibula, and a second tibia, all very much dis- eased. 77 Two tibiae, one of which has been fractured and is reunited, the other has a large and extensive exostosis, forming a spicula; probably a nodus syphi- liticus. 78 A choice example of an os femoris fractured about its middle, where there are many osseous spicula?. 79 A specimen of fractured tibia reunited, and anchylosed with the fibula. 80 A tibia and corresponding fibula, both very much diseased 81 A tibia and fibula articulated, both very much diseased, the fibula being re- plete with spiculse. 82 An instance of os femoris fractured about its middle, having several spiculae, now become obtuse j and an example of porcelanic secretion upon its in- ternal condyle. 83 An instance of diseased tibia and fibula, anchylosed nearly throughout their whole extent in consequence of ossification of the ligamentum interos- seum; there are many spiculae on the posterior surface of the tibia, and a multitude emanating from the fibula. 84f An os femoris fractured at its middle and reunited: a lower half of ditto which seems to have been broken spontaneously, from caries ; a tibia much diseased ; and a fibula fractured towards its head, 85 A tibia fractured near the ankle-joint, and a fibula fractured towards its head j both are reunited. 86 An uncommonly fine specimen of necrosis tibiae 3 the sequestra extending nearly the whole length of the bone, within which it is very moveable j there are several apertures or fenestrse, rendering the original bone very obvious j the lower portion of the tibia is anchylosed with the astragalus and fibula, also extensively diseased. N.B. There is a second sequestra situated pos- teriorly and interiorly. 87 A dreadful case of fractured tibia and fibula at their inferior extremities, both shockingly reduced, or rather remaining unreduced, but reunited. N.B. A distinct portion of the bone, upwards of three inches in length, had been broken off posteriorly, but is now firmly attached. 88 An extraordinary os femoris replete with exostoses secreted from various parts of the surface; these morbid processes apparently formed the nuclei of im- mense cartilaginous tumors, constituting the disease commonly denominated osteo-sarcoma (osteo-chondroma). 89 A tibia fractured inferiorly, and a radius broken towards the wrist 3 both are reunited ; the tibia forms a long obtuse spicula.TWELFTH DAY’S SALE. 70 LOT 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 JOG 101 102 103 104 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] An os brachii much diseased at the elbow-joint, having a long acute spicula i secreted from its internal spine 5 and a portion of a tibia and fibula^frac- tured below their middle j reunited and anchylosed. Two portions of femora morbidly affected. An os femoris, the cervix of which is much shortened, and the head extremely , expanded in consequence of luxation 3 two tibiae, and a fibula being like- | wise diseased. Two diseased femora. An os femoris and tibia much diseased. An interesting example of fractured os femoris just below the trochanter minor. ! An os femoris and tibia, both much incurvated. An os femoris and tibia extensively affected with osteitis. | A tibia fractured inferiorly 3 a fibula at its middle, and an example of os brachii fractured just above its condyles, and much diseased. Two ossa sacra, one being anchylosed with the last lumbar vertebra, and that is anchylosed with the fourth. The second os sacrum presents a most un- usual appearance, inasmuch as its ordinary concavity is become rather con- vex 3 also two ossa innominata from young subjects of different ages, show- ing the union of the three bones of which they consist. j A fine natural preparation of the vertebral column, pelvis, and ligaments. Ditto, articulated. Ditto, flexible. Ditto. Ditto. Crania. (Lots numbered from 26 to 111 inclusive.) Bones of the cranium connected by their sutures. The eight bones of the cranium. A cranium, a section of which has been made for the purpose of showing , the interior. 1 Ditto, a part of the face and os occipitale being removed to show the meatus nasi, the cellulae ethmoideae, &c. ' An edentulous cranium having two foramina infra-orbitalia on the left side. A cranium. Ditto of an Ethiopian 3 a section has been made to show the interior, with ^ one sinus pituitarius frontalis. A cranium. A fine cranium, with its inferior maxillary bone 3 a transverse section has been made through the os frontale above the orbit, to demonstrate the oblitera- tion of the sinus pituitarius frontalis. N.B. This cranium has a frontal suture. A fine cranium, with its inferior maxillary bone. Ditto, one os parietale having been removed. The tube roccipitale is unusu- ally large and acute. | A very fine cranium, with its inferior maxillary bone and all the teeth complete. N.B, There are two foramina infra-orbitaria bn the left side. A beautiful cranium and inferior maxilla. Ditto. Injuries of the Head.—Fractures, Fissures, Depressions, &c. 40 A cranium 3 the os frontale presents indications of considerable exfoliation having taken place : and the right os parietale of having had the trephine applied 3 nearly restored. 41 A cranium, the left os parietale of which has either been extensively absorbed, or exfoliated. The left styloid process is very long. 42 A cranium, having a disease pn the centre of the os frontale.71 n \jyuty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 43 A case of coup de sabre on the cranium of a warrior. He received a deep incised wound on the os parietale, which carried off a portion of the scalp and bone j now partially restored. 44 A fine cranium and inferior maxilla : on the centre of the left os parietale there is an indication of a long and deep abscess having almost entirely pervaded the bone. 45 A most interesting case of fracture of the right os parietale, with loss of bone, and a fissure extending in a diagonal direction through the same, from the occipital to the spinous process, directly crossing the tract of the arteria spinosa duree matris. 46 A cranium, the right os parietale of which seems to have received a coup de sabre, having a considerable portion of bone much elevated, and a frac- ture extending across the left os jugale j now restored. 47 An example of fractured ossa nasalia, accompanied with considerable deformi- ty : reunited. 48 An illustration of fracture, with considerable depression of the right os parie- tale, through which a fissure extends to the coronal suture j the separated portions are reunited. 49 A cranium exhibiting an example of fracture of the right os parietale, at- tended with considerable depression, still existing 5 also a fissure passing* transversely from the sagittal suture through the squamous process of the os temporale down to the basis of the zygoma. Presented by the late James Brookes, Esq. of Richmond, Surry. The subject was dissected by that gentleman at Dr. Wm. Hunter’s, in Windmill Street, about eighty years ago. 50 Ditto, exhibiting an almost unexampled specimen of great depression of the anterior part of the os frontale through its vitreous table, restored by the efforts of nature alone. 51 A cranium with a remarkably large hiatus nasi, produced in consequence of an extensive polypus. 52 The cranium of an unfortunate coachman, who, in driving with great vehe- mence under a gateway, fractured the os frontale, all the bones of the face j and lower jaw, which occasioned death. Sypliilitic Affections. |he subsequent Crania exemplify the ravages of this dire malady on the bones of the head and face, which now, for the hap- piness of mankind, from improved practice, are likely rarely to recur. Therefore these monuments of this Protean disease are most probably the last and finest examples which may be offered for sale. .OT 53 A calvaria, the os frontale of which is extensively affected with caries on the right side, probably syphilitic. 54 Ditto, extensively diseased. N.B. The sinus pituitarii frontales are very capacious. 55 The basis of a cranium j the ossa maxillaria superiora, nasalia, and all the inte- rior of the nose are destroyed by the depascent syphilitic virus. 56 Ditto, with the calvaria, showing the effects on the os frontale, which is very much thickened. 57 An example of a cranium extensively affected with syphilitic virus. 58 Ditto, replete with large and irregular ulcerations through most of the bones j dreadful to contemplate ! 59 A cranium, with inferior maxillary bone, extensively affected with the syphilitic virus. The teeth are complete.72 TWJt:Ll< I hTDAY^^S «ALE. ^ [Dut^ to be paid by the Purchaseri] LOT 60 One of the most interesting, perhaps, of all the venereal crania; the disease had manifestly produced its ravages^ very extensively in the bones of the face, viz. the ossanasalia, maxillaria'superiora, palatina, and interior of the nose. The patient was unequivocally cured, as is obvious from the sane aspect of the margins of the disease. 61 Another cranium; the ossa nasalia, maxillaria superiora, and palatina, ex- tensively affected with syphilitic virus. 62 The cranium and inferior maxillary bone ; the os frontale and ossa parietalia are extensively affected with the disease. 63 Another syphilitic cranium and lower jaw, in the latter of which there has been a deep abscess: all the bones of the face are extensively affected. 64 An unique syphilitic cranium, the upper surface of wliich is universally eroded (somewhat cribriform), in many parts through both tables of the bones; the inferior maxilla was so much injured by this malignant disease, that it is separated into three distinct portions. From a patient under the care of Nathaniel Pointer, Esq., and presented by that gentleman. 65 Ditto. The dire effects of the venereal virus are seen in a multitude of large ulcerations pervading the os frontale, temporale, occij)itale, ossa pa- rietalia, &c. 66 Is a dreadful example of the phagedenic nature of the venereal virus, in the os frontale, the left os parietale and occipitale; the half of the former, and almost as much of the latter, having been entirely destroyed by this hor- rible malady. 67 Ditto, in which the whole of the upper part of the cranium, and a great portion of the inferior maxillary bone have been extensively affected by syphilitic virus, and the latter perfectly carious contiguous to its symphysis. • 68 An interesting example of a cranium generally attacked with syphilitic virus ; many of the bones are eroded in various places through both their tables. 69 A cranium, inferior maxillary bone, and four superior cervical vertebrae; the whole of the upper part of this unusually fine specimen has been affected by virus syphilitica, assuming somewhat of a cauliflower ap- pearance. N.B. The left side of the posterior arch of the atlas has been half absorbed at its superior surface, probably from deep-seated abscess of very unusual occurrence. 70 Is the most interesting, if it be not the finest specimen of all the syphi- litic crania; the whole of the anterior, posterior, lateral and superior parts has been extensively destroyed, and in many places large portions of the outer table of the bones are altogether carious, exposing the diploe ; N.B. The head was taken from a subject in the dissecting room, and mi- nutely injected (by Mr. Brookes); as the cartilages of the nose and ears fully prove, their appearance has not the least relation to the disease. There are two foramina infra-orbitalia sinistra. No external indications of disease were apparent, except a small sinus through the scalp just above the forehead. Calvarise. 71 An interesting specimen of caries pervading both tables of the right parietal bone, partially of the left, also of the os frontale, accompanied by consi- derable exfoliations. 72 An excellent specimen of osteitis of the os frontale, with considerable thick- ening and obliteration of the diploe. N.B. The disease extends through both tables into the interior of the cranium. 73 A morbid calvaria, extensively affected, probably syphilitic. 74 Ditto.TWELI^H DAY’S SAL^^ 73 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT f~75 An uncommonly fine example of abscess in the anterior part of the os fron- I tale, extending into the sinus pituitarius dexter. Presented by F. Smith, I Esq. I 76 A caharia with a remarkable appearance on the posterior part of the sa- ^ gittal suture. ! 77 A calvaria very much fractured and depressed with a horizontal fissure j extending through the os parietale sinistrum, and a section of a similar j bone, which had apparently a large portion separated from it by violence, seemingly insulated by a fissure. 78 A calvaria which had been fractured; a portion of the os parietale that was depressed, is removed. 79 A calvaria very much fractured in various directions, and in which the operation of the trephine had been performed unsuccessfully- N.B. The three last calvariae were obtained from patients who had died in the Mid- dlesex Hospital from injuries of the head. Presented by — Clark, Esq. 80 A calvaria in which there is a considerable aperture at the upper part of the right parietal bone, apparently the sinus of an abscess on the dura mater, that had obviously produced absorption of the vitreous table. 81 An interesting specimen of a calvaria, in which the anterior part of the os frontale has exfoliated to a considerable extent, leaving a concave sur- face. 82 A choice, perhaps unique, example of the consequences of the operation of the trephine, twelve years subsequent to its performance, on the ante- rior and inferior part of the os frontale on the right side. The margin of the present irregular aperture is very much attenuated, and not suffi- ciently large to admit the tip of the little finger. This and the following preparation are so demonstrative of the fact of cssific secretion ensuing subsequently to the operation of the trephine, that, although the pro- cess is tardy, the occurrence is hereby clearly established. Obtained from a convict who died after two years’ incarceration in the House of Correction, Cold Bath Fields, and presented by the surgeon to that es- tablishment, — Webb, Esq., who had daily intercourse with the indivi- dual. S3 Ditto on the upper and posterior part of the os occipitale; taken from a subject who underwent the operation of the trephine at a shorter period previously to death. 84< An entire cranium having a considerable depression on the upper part of the os frontale contiguous to the coronal suture. ' ^ A cranium (the bones of the face wanting), the upper part of which has been extensively affected by caries. 86 A cranium (the bones of the face wanting), having a considerable depres- sion in the anterior part of the os frontale. N.B. The outer table is re- moved for the purpose of exposing the sinus pituitarii frontales, which seem nearly obliterated. 87 An antrum case, in the cranium of a Lascar. The os maxillare superius dextrum is very much enlarged, the orbitar process of which is consider- ably elevated, and the contiguous os jugale much distorted, in conse- quence of an extensive osseous tumor secreted in the interior of the sinus. 88 A very fine cranium with its inferior maxillary bone : in both the sinus pi- tuitarii maxillares are tumors that have produced obvious elevations of their orbitar processes, very much diminishing the cavity of the orbits, and thereby materially impeding the function of the organ of vision. Presented by Dr. Lawson of Jamaica. 89 A calvaria with the greater part of the os frontale much affected with os- teitis. 90 Three calvariae, one of which exhibits a specimen of remarkably thick di- ploe; two others are singularly thin; in one, the sinus pituitarii frontales L71 TWELFTH DAY’S SALE. 111 Ditto, with an os Wormianum in the commencement of the sagittal suture. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser. are unusually large, and a piece of string has been passed thro-ugh the canalis spinosus, in order to show the latent passage of the ramusculus meningeus medius e ramo maxillari interne arteriae caroticae externse, N.B. The sutures are obliterated in these two last specimens. Crania exhibitino; remarkable instances of Phrenolos^ical mariifes- tations. LOT 91 An unusually small cranium from an adult subject,—perhaps the individual was not the less intelligent. 92 A cranium remarkable for its spheroidal figure. 93 An extraordinary and very irregular cranium, which was dug up from beneath the foundation of an edifice (that had stood for four hundred years in the parish of St. Mary-le-bourne), in the presence of— Nichols, Esq., architect, by whom it was presented to Mr. Brookes. It is unusu- ally short. 94.' A cranium, remarkably long. 95 Ditto. 96 A cranium, the bones of the upper part are unusually ponderous, and are perfectly horizontal, terminating posteriorly in hemispheres. 97 A cranium singular for its extreme elevation, convexity superiorly, and curtailment posteriorly. N.B. These two extraordinary crania were ob- tained from subjects dissected and presented by — Rogers, Esq. 98 A cranium and inferior maxillary bone. The upper and posterior parts of this remarkable skull, but more especially the left parietal bone, have been affected with a disease producing innumerable cryptae, having the sem- blance of the effects of variola. Presented by T. Copland, Esq. 99 A cranium and inferior maxillary bone curious on account of its oblate figure. N.B. The teeth are very irregular. 100 Ditto in every respect. 101 A cranium and inferior maxillary bone, exhibiting a remarkable manifesta- tion of philoprogenitiveness. 102 Ditto, very large, and of an extremely spheroidal figure, with a suture pass- ing diagonally through the upper part of the os occipitale. 103 Ditto, of very large size, and the bones of which are unusually thick. Pre- sented by T. Copland, Esq. 104 A fine cranium and inferior maxillary bone, having two foramina infra-or- bitalia sinistra. 105 A cranium of a young subject, the posterior part of the sagittal and lamb- doidal sutures are replete with ossa Wormiana. N.B. There is a suture passing horizontally through the os occipitale immediately above its su- perior transverse ridge, and another in a similar direction through the os parietale dextrum ; there is also a sutura frontalis. 106 A cranium in the lambdoidal suture, of which there are two large ossa Wormiana of an oval figure. 107 A very fine cranium and inferior maxillary bone, having in the upper part of the os occipitale a very large lozenge-shaped os Wormianum. 108 A cranium, the occipital bone of which is divided into two portions, just above the tubercle, by means of a horizontal suture. 109 A cranium having a frontal suture, one os Wormianum in the coronal, and several in the lambdoidal suture. 110 A very fine cranium and inferior maxillary bone; with teeth, having a frontal suture.THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. WEDNESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] SALOON. Compartment E. ^reparations of the blood-vessels ; of the viscera ; of uteri and their appendages; of vesicae urinariae, prostate glands, vesiculas seminales; heads, trunks, extremities, &c. E.OT 1 An uncommonly fine preparation of ascites saccatus stuffed and dried, apper- taining to which there is the uterus and its appendages, with a view of the os uteri, bladder and rectum. There are some lesser cysts connected with this specimen. 2 A very extraordinary specimen of adipocire of the inferior and exterior part of the thigh. Presented by Dr. Kidd. 3 Ditto, with the lower half of the os femoris. 4< Ditto, a part of the musculus gluteus maximus. Presented by Dr. Hooper. 5 A small specimen of adipocire. 6 Ditto. 7 A very fine arterial preparation of a superior extremity, and part of the tho- rax with the subclavian artery; all the branches of t’ne axillary, and most of the nerves are preserved. S The parietes of all the anterior part of the thorax and abdomen, showing the course, distribution, and inosculations of the internal mammary brandies of the subclavian arteries and the internal epigastric branches of the external iliac arteries, their anastomoses with each other, the intercostales, &c.—The veins are likewise preserved in this specimen. 9 A beautiful preparation of the superior quarter of a young subject; the aorta and all the arteries arising from the arch and its thoracic portion are well injected; the left vertebral almost rivals the common carotid in magnitude, and ascends to the fifth vertebra colli before it enters its foramen cervicale. The tongue, larynx, and trachea, pharynx and ccsophagus, are preserved. 10 A choice preparation of a vascular subject about one year old, very well in- jected and dissected. 11 The entire superior quarter of an adult subject, with the heart in situ natu- rali, well injected; larynx, trachea, pharynx, and oesophagus ; the con- tents of the posterior mediastinum, all the arteries of the bisected head and neck, as well as those of the extremity, which are injected and dis- sected. The muscles and nerves are likewise preserved. N.B. There are four large arteries appertaining to the fore-arm ; the ramus medianus arterise interossese communis being of considerable size, and, after passing under the ligamentum carpi annulare anticum, inosculates largely with the ramifications of the cubital artery, forming a splendid arcus superficialis manus. The fascia palmaris is preserved. 12 A fine preparation of the thorax, the vital viscera, diaphragm and liver, with their vessels ; injected. 13 A useful preparation of a bisected thorax, and superior extremity, the arteries of which are injected and dissected. The muscles and nerves are likewise preserved, 14' The uterus, vagina, ligamentum latum, and tlic cyst of a hydrops ovarii;THIRTEENTH DAY’S'SALE: 76 LOT {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] Jk from an animal. The spermatic and other arteries are extremely tortuous, and well injected with mercury. v 1 j A specimen of a bisected neck and thorax, with half of the superior extre- mity, the arteries of which are injected and dissected. 16 An interesting arterial preparation of a bisected thorax, and superior ex- C tremity, beautifully injected and dissected. .! 1 7 Ditto. 18 The uterus, ovaria, vagina, bladder, and intestinum rectum of a mare, well ■ distended, and their vessels injected. * 19 A handsome arterial preparation of the superior extremity of a young subject, g A fine injected trunk of a subject about seven years of age, with the heart = in situ naturali, liver, and vena porta abdominalis, most beautifully displayed, t including the other blood-vessels both arterial and venous, larynx, trachea, pharynx, oesophagus, &c. J 2i A part of the thorax, with the aoita, the branches arising from its transverse arch, and intercostales. ^32 The whole of the chylopoetic viscera, including the oesophagus and stomach : also the bladder well distended with cotton. The trachea and bronchi are likewise preserved, and the vessels injected. a 23 The caecum of a dog, distended, dried, and varnished. i 24 The superior extremity of a young subject, injected, dissected, dried, and var- | nished. 25 The trunk of a subject about five years of age, having the thoracic viscera, porta abdominalis, vena cava, and all the arteries and veins, injected ; like- ’ wise the arteries and veins of the neck, the organ of voice and trachea, pharynx, cesophagus and diaphragm, all preserved in situ naturali. 26 The spine of a young subject, to which is attached the heart, lungs, and kid- nies, having the two vascular systems injected of different colours: the tongue, os hyoides, larynx, trachea, thyroid gland, pharynx, and oesopha- gus, are preserved. 27 A most interesting vascular preparation of the trunk of a young subject, hav- ing also the cavic and pulmonic auricles preserved : the pulmonary vessels are injected and traced into the substance of the lungs ; to give a clear view of which several ribs of the upper part of the thorax on each side are removed. The diaphragm is preserved in situ naturali. m 28 A portion of the spine with the kidnies, the .vessels of which are injected, likewise the ureters and pelves, the aorta and arteriae spermaticae. 29 Part of the thorax, to which the heart and lungs are attached and injected, ' with all their vessels : from a fox (Canis Vulpes). ' 30 A stomach injected, stuffed, dried and varnished : from an otter (Lutra flu- viatilis.) 31 A preparation of the uterus with its appendages, from an individual who' had been a mother ; affording an excellent view of the os uteri from the i vagina, the bladder distended, the urethra, hypogastric arteries and their ramifications. 32 The inferior part of tlie spine, with the sacrum, one kidney, the aorta, vena cava, spermatic and other vessels, injected. 33 The thorax, with its contained viscera and vessels, injected and dried. ' 34 The stomach of a cat, distended, dried and varnished. / 35 The inferior part of a trunk, pelvis, and extremities of a young subject; the j arteries of which are well injected and dissected, with the lower part of tlie cava and iliac veins injected. The testes and penis are preserved. J 36 The spine of a foetus, the vessels of which are injected. ^ 37 A superior extremity of a young subject, the arteries of which are well in- ^ jected and dissected. 5 38 The thorax of an adult subject, the vital viscera are well injected, and pre- . served in situ naturali, with one clavicul.i and scapula, the arteries of theTHIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 77 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser!] LOT 39 A fine uterus from a subject at about the sixth month of gestation, aftbrding an excellent view of the os uteri : dried and varnished. 40 An interesting specimen of a foetus, injected, having the stomach and bladder distended, and some other viscera preserved. 41 A trunk, containing the thoracic viscera, spleen, kidneys, vena porta abdomi- nalis and cava, injected and displayed ; likewise the organ of deglutition. 42 An interesting view of the greater portion of the pelvis and upper part of the thigh, from a female at the age of adolescence, the sexual organs, both external and internal, with the bladder and rectum, the three latter dis- tended; their vessels, both arteries and veins, are injected and preserved. 43 Ditto, somewhat older ; the arteries only are injected. 44 A stomach, distended and dried, aftbrding a view of the pylorus. 45 A vascular preparation of a subject about six months old, the thoracic viscera are preserved. There are two venae cavae abdominales in this specimen. 46 A fine specimen of a gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, injected and distended, as are also the bladder and rectum. 47 The bladder of a cat distended, with the vasa deferentia injected. 48 An interesting preparation of a gall-bladder injected green; with the ductus cysticus, pori biiiarii, ductus hepaticus, ductus communis choledochus, with the termination of the ductus pancreaticus in the duodenum. 49 The female organs, bladder and rectum, distended and dried. 50 The caecum with the appendix vermiformis, valvula coli, its appendix and re- tinacula, displayed. 51 A preparation of the epiglottis, os hyoides, graniform appendages, larynx, and a part of the trachea. 52 The oesophagus and trachea of a stork (Ciconia alba). 53 A gall-bladder of very unusual magnitude, distended. ,54 A fine specimen of a gravid uterus at the seventh month of gestation, with its appendages, dried hollow; also the bladder and part of the rectum. N.B. The reflexion of the peritoneum from the cervix uteri to the poste- rior part of the bladder is well seen. 55 One os innominatum with the uterus of a matron; its internal and external appendages injected, as well as the clitoris and plexus retiformis. The bladder is filled with wax, the meatus urinarius is very obvious. 56 The preparation of a csecum with the appendix vermiformis, valvula coli, its appendix, and retinacula, injected. 57 The sexual organs of a virgin, exhibiting a fine example of hydrops ovarii, which had been mistaken for pregnancy, the bladder and rectum are both distended, and the whole injected. 58 A fine preparation of the gravid uterus at the full period of gestation, having all the arteries and large sinus uterini injected ; bougies are introduced into the tubae Fallopianse ; the os uteri, highly vascular, is extremely w^ell seen from the vagina, which last canal was lacerated by a crotchet in partu, that occasioned the death of the patient from haemorrhage. The rectum is distended and preserved, as is also the bladder, having quills passed through the ureters. Presented by - "■■■• Esq. 59 The scalp, minutely injected, dried, and varnished. 60 The whole of the external and internal female organs injected, distended, dried and varnished. In this preparation there is a fine view afforded of the clitoris, its crura and body being fully distended, as is also the plexus retiformis surrounding the ostium vaginae. The os uteri and tubae Fallo- pianae, into which quills have been introduced, are well seen. The rectum, bladder, and ureters are distended. 61 The vagina, uterus and commencement of its cornua, minutely injected, dis- tended and dried; from a sow. 62 The bladder and terminations of the ureters, the vesiculae seminales, vasa de- ferentia, with the prostate gland, injected, dried, and varnished.LOT 63 78 THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] A specimen of the five cartilages of the larynx, the chordae vocales, trachea, bronchi, and part of the oesophagus, well displayed. N.B. This preparation clearly illustrates the facility of performing Mr. Brookes’s operation of la- ryngotomy in cases of asphyxia, at the lip of the thyroid cartilage and im- mediately beneath the epiglottis, being just above the rimula glottidis. The instrument is to pass between the chordae vocales, which organs are parti- cularly distinct. 64 The half of the cranium of a kid, minutely injected, dried and varnished. 65 An artery and vein injected. 66 The bladder injected, with the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia filled with mercury, showing the union of the ducts of the latter terminating in those of the former. The prostate gland is also preserved. 67 A vascular preparation of the inferior extremity of a young subject. 68 A part of the adult spine, including the lumbar vertebrae, the aorta abdom in alls and corresponding cava, which is double, each cava receiving a renal vein, with the vessels arising from the former, and terminating in the latter. 69 A bladder injected and stuft'ed, with the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia filled with mercury, the union of the latter ducts terminating in those of the former. The prostate gland is also preserved. 70 .'Vn arterial preparation of the half of a thorax and superior extremity of a young subject, all the organs of which are interestingly displayed. 71 A very fine preparation of a large diverticulum ilei, well injected, stuffed, dried and varnished. 72 A ])reparation of the bladder, injected with Paris plaster, having the vesiculae .seminales and vasa deferentia injected of a yellow colour j the union of their ducts and the termination of the ureters are very obvious 3 and the prostate gland is dried. 73 A beautiful specimen of the heart of a seal (Phoca vitulina) with all the vessels injected. N.B. It may be here observed that the pulmonic auricle greatly exceeds in size the cavic, contrary to the conformation in animals solely terrestrial. 74 A dried hand, the vessels of which have been injected with mercury, but de- fective from the loss of some fingers. 75 The stomach of a pig, distended, dried and varnished. 76 An example of the complicated heart of a tortoise (Testudo Elephantopus) with its vessels preserved, of considerable length, and well injected 77 An injected heart of a dog. 8 A specimen of diverticulum ilei, injected and stuffed. 9 A section of the pelvis, containing the female organs, bladder and rectum, in- 1 jected, distended and dried, with part of the os femoris of a foetus. <( 80 The internal female organs, bladder and rectum, with an example of a fol- I licula mephitica, by the discharge of the foetid secretion of which many I predacious quadrupeds escape their pursuers : injected, dried, and distended L with air. From a badger (Meles Taxus). 81 The stomach of a large monkey, injected, dried and varnished. 82 A preparation of the four stomachs of a ruminant quadruped (an antelope), the vessels of which are all well injected: stuffed, dried and varnished, f 83 A hand of a fisher-boy, dried, unfortunately torn off with the coil of a rope I twisted around it. 84 A fine preparation of the os hyoides, five cartilages of the larynx, trachea, and I bronchi, pharynx and oesophagus, distended, dried and varnished. L85 A portion of colon, minutely injected, dried and varnished. 86 A specimen of the caecum caput coli, with an uncommonly long appendix ver- miformis, injected, stuffed and dried. 87 Another specimen of ditto, showing the valvula coli, its appendix, and orifice : distended and dried. 88 A very unusual specimen of extremely large appendix vermiformis, with the caecum and colon ; stuft'ed, dried and varnished.THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 79 [Duty to be paid by the 'Purchaser LOT 89 A portion of intestinum ilium : injected, dried and varnished. 90 A fine preparation of the termination of the intestinum ilium, the caecum, and part of the colon, injected, stuffed, dried, and varnished, of a kangaroo (Halmaturus giganteus). 91 A portion of the intestinum ilium, injected j with its mesentery, stufifed, dried, and varnished. 92 The stomach of a foetus : ditto. 93 A portion of the intestinum jejunum ; injected, distended, dried, and varnish- ed, with the mesenteric vessels. 94 The caecum of a cat, with a part of the colon, and termination of the intesti- num ilium : distended, dried, and varnished. 95 A beautiful specimen of the human stomach, duodenum, gall bladder, and bi- liary ducts with their termination j spleen, with the splenic and gastric vessels. These organs are well injected, and preserved of their natural figure and in their situation. From a subject about five years of age. 96 A well injected preparation of one cornu uteri of a sow: distended, dried, and varnished. 97 A beautiful view of the caecum, valvula coli, its appendix and retinacula : in- jected, distended, dried, and varnished. 98 The stomach of a cat: minutely injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 99 A fine preparation of a large human gall-bladder, with the ductus cysticus, hepaticus, communis choledochus and pancreaticus 3 the last terminating separately in the duodenum j all of which are distended, dried, and var- nished. 100 A specimen of a caecum caput coli, appendix vermiformis, termination of the intestinum, ilium, the valvula coli, its appendix and retinacula 3 distended, dried, and varnished. 101 An interesting specimen of the pylorus, with a portion of the stomach and intestinum duodenum, dried and varnished. 102 The caecum, termination of the ilium, and part of the colon, of a quadruped: injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 103 The tongue, ossa lingualia, larynx superior and inferior, with the trachea and ingluvies of a cockatoo (Phyctolophus Moluccensis). 104 A caecum and termination of the ilium of a quadruped, remarkable for the very minute entrance of one intestine into the other. 105 The head, neck, oesophagus, and ingluvies, with the os furciforme and trachea well injected, distended, dried, and varnished, of the silken fowl (Gallus Morio). 106 A handsome preparation of the pelvis of a young male subject, the whole of the blood-vessels are injected of different colours. 107 A portion of the intestinum ilium, injected, dried, and varnished. 108 Several portions of intestinum jejunum, injected, dried in an expanded state, and varnished. 109 A very large gall-bladder, distended, dried, and varnished. 110 A portion of the colon, stuffed, dried, and varnished, on which the appendiculie epiploicae are preserved. 111 A portion of intestine, distended, dried, and varnished. 112 A stomach and duodenum, distended, dried, and varnished. 113 Ditto, injected 5 from a quadruped. 114 A portion of the intestinum jejunum, injected, dried, and varnished. 115 The caecum and termination of the ilium, injected : from a quadruped. 116 A fine specimen of the rectum and anus, distended, dried, and varnished, on which there is an interesting display of the ramus haemorrhoidalis internus arteriae mesentericae inferioris, the ramifications extend to the anus, inosculating with the external haemorrhoidal branches of the pudic artery 5—so necessary for every surgeon to recollect when performing the operation for fistulce in ano, accompanied with extensive sinuses.LOT 117 118 119 ri20 121 122 1 80 THIRTEENTH DAY’S SALE. {Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ A bladder and rectum of a foetus, dried and varnished ; the arteriae umbilicale.s are injected. A portion of the intestinum jejunum, distended with air, dried in a circular form, and varnished: the arteries and veins are injected. The trachea and bronchia of a large marine turtle. N.B. The cartilages of which are circular. Four small pieces of intestine, injected and dried. Ditto. The caput coli, appendix vermiformis, and termination of the intestinum ilium; injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 123 Ditto. 124 A portion of the mesentery and intestine of a turtle, injected and dried. 125 The rectum, distended, dried and varnished. 126 The caecum, part of the colon, termination of the intestinum ilium of a tiger: distended, dried, and varnished. 127 A very interesting preparation, of a part of the spine, the aorta, renal vessels, kidnies, spermatic arteries, the superior and inferior mesentericus exhibit- ing the large inosculation on the left side (the circulus anastomoticus me- socolicus), as well as the other ramifications of the superior and inferior me-, senteric arteries. ri28 A portion of intestine, injected, dried, and varnished. <1 129 Ditto. L130 A spleen and a kidney. 131 A very fine preparation of the liver, gall-bladder,with the biliary ducts, the vena cava abdominalis from the kidnies to its auricle, the sinus portas, and vena porta hepatica 3 also the vena umbilicalis (pervious) inosculating with the pre- ceding3 the hepatic artery and other vessels (which are in injected of various colours), being distinctly displayed : dried, and varnished. 132 A spleen inflated and dried. 133 The duodenum with the termination of the ductus communis choledochus and ductus pancreaticus preserved, into which bristles are introduced. 134 A portion of intestine, injected, distended, dried, and varnished. 135 The intestinum rectum, distended, dried, and varnished 3 the ramifications of . the internal hsemorrhoidal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery are very obvious. 136 A portion of intestine, distended, dried, and varnished. 137 The oesophagus, distended, dried, &c. with the trachea of a heron (Ardea major). 138 The caecum, appendix vermiformis, a part of the ascending portion of the colon, termination of the intestinum ilium, valvula coli, its appendix and retinacula 3 dried, distended, and varnished, with the distribution of the ramus ileo-colicus arteriae mesentericae superioris injected. 139 The uterus, connected with the vagina, bladder, and rectum, distended, dried and varnished. 140 A part of a large gall bladder and ductus cysticus, dried and varnished. 141 A handsome preparation of the liver, the gall-bladder, with the ductus cysti- cus, hepaticus, and communis choledochus, injected 5 with the termina- tion of the latter duct in the intestinum duodenum, contiguous to the ductus pancreaticus, through which a quill has been passed : the vena cava abdominalis and the vena porta hepatica are preserved : the vena umbilicalis, entering the organ above the isthmus hepatis, and the arteria hepatica below, are likewise filled with variously coloured injections. 142 The sexual organs, both internal and external, from a young female, with the bladder and rectum, distended, dried and varnished 3 all the arteries are well injected, and quills introduced into the ureters. {FOURTEENTH DAY’S SALE. THURSDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment F. continued. LOT 143 Ail interesting specimen of a gravid uterus at nine months of gestation, with its appendages ; the arteries, with the large sinus uterini, are well in- jected, the latter of a yellow colour : the placenta is attached towards the fundus, having its vessels also well injected, the vein of a blue colour : a portion of the vagina remains, is distended, and exhibits a particularly fine view of the os uteri: the bladder is preserved in situ naturali, dried and varnished. 144 A portion of intestine, minutely injected, dried and varnished, 145 A considerable part of one cornu of the gravid uterus of a sow, distended, dried and varnished ; both the arteries and veins are minutely injected. 146 The heart and lungs, with their vessels injected j the aorta, arterise subcla- viae, and carotides; also the linguales : the tongue, os hyoides, larynx, trachea, and bvonchi, with the pharynx and oesophagus preserved, dried and varnished 5 from a Pecari (Adenonotus torquatus). 147 An admirable preparation of the basis of the cranium, vertebral column and pelvis, from an adult subject, preserved with all its various ligaments. N.B. The posterior part of the os occipitale and spinous processes of the atlas and vertebra dentata are removed, for the purpose of demonstrating the liga- ments connecting the vertebree v/ith the cranium 5 those of the lower jaw are also seen. 148 Ditto, having the posterior and inferior part of the os occipitale sawn through in a circular direction, and hinged ; the spinous processes of a great part of the vertebrae dorsiare removed, that the ligamentum longitudinale posticum may be seen, as the ligamentum longitudinale anticum is in the opposite view : the tentorium and part of the theca vertebrarum are preserved. 149 The.bladder, rectum, and cloaca, of a turtle (Chelonia Midas): distended, dried and varnished. 150 A gall-bladder : injected. 151 A portion of intestine : injected, dried, and varnished. 152 A fine large preparation of the gastric organ and duodenum of a quadruped, the vessels of which are well injected. 153 An excellent preparation of the lower part of the os femoris, leg, and foot, exhibiting the various ligaments and fasciae. 154 Ditto. 155 Ditto, without fasciae, but having the arteries injected. 156 Ditto. 157 An excellent specimen of a full-sized and well-forraed femiale pelvis and li- gament, with all the lumbar vertebrae. 158 A useful section of a part of the thorax and most oi the dorsal vertebra, the sternum, cartilages of the ribs, their ligaments, &c. 159 The half of the thorax, including the scapula and clavicula, with the various ligaments appertaining to the different bones. 160 The stomach and intestines j injected, dried and varnished. 161 The left inferior extremity (distorted) : preserved for ligaments. 162 The intestinum ileum, caecum, and part of the colon of a large predacious qua- druped. MFOUU'rEENTH DAY’S SALE. 82 [Duty to he-paid by the Purchaser. LOT 163 The integuments of the membrum virile of the common whale (Baliena mysticetus). 164 The uterus and its appendages, including the vagina, external organs, rectum and bladder j distended dried and varnished j with the ramifications of the hypogastric artery : from a quadruped ; the Gnu probably. T65 A most interesting specimen of the os hyoides, larynx and superior portion of the trachea 3 the pharynx, bursa faucium, and upper part of the oesophagus; from a Camel. N.B. The bursa faucium is the organ which has been occa- sionally noticed to be protruded from the fauces when the animal is in a high state of excitement. IG6 The os hyoides, larynx, and upper part of the trachea of the Hippopotamus, being a very rare and beautiful preparation. 167 The head of a sturgeon (Accipenser Sturio.) Compartment G. Containing preparations of blood-vessel trunks; extremities dis- sected for ligaments ; stomachs, som.e fine specimens of the male organs; morbid subjects; calculi, both vesical and renal; cholesterine formations, &c. LOT 1 A preparation of the stomach of an ostrich (Struthio Camel us): distended, dried and varnished. 2 The stomachs of an antelope : injected, distended, dried and varnished. 3 The cornu uteri of a gravid sow at the full period of gestation : minutely injected. A portion of ditto. The heart of a turtle, injected. A portion of the gravid uterus of a sow, inflated. A specimen of the human membrum virile, injected. The os penis of a young Morse (Trichechus Rosmarus). The human membrum virile well injected. 10 Ditto from a bear (Ursus arctos). i 1 Corresponding organs from man. 12 Ditto. 13 Ditto. 14 Ditto. 15 An uncommonly interesting and minutely injected specimen of hydrops sac- catus: consisting of one large, and a multitude of small cysts : the blad- der, rectum, uterus and its appendages are preserved ; distended, dried and varnished. N.B. Mr. Brookes performed the operation of paracentesis ovarii about two months previously to the death of the patient; a young- woman twenty-four years of age : she died of hydro-thorax, the volume of the right lung was diminished to the size of an ordinary fist by a vast se- cretion of fluid in the same cavity of the chest. 16 A choice specimen of the lower part of the trunk and pelvis of a female subject; the arteries and veins are injected. This fine preparation exhibits an admi- rable view of the external and internal organs; with the bladder and rectum, distended, dried and varnished. N.B. A great portion of the right os ileum and sacrum are removed, showing the ramifications of the hypogastric vessels, their uterine branches, &c. The kidneys, clitoris, and plexus reti- formis are retained and injected. 17 An arterial preparation of the inferior extremity of a young subject. 18 The trunk of a young subject; all the viscera,with the exception of the heart, are injected, distended, dried, and varnished.S3 JdL UAY'i5 SAl.lL. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 19 Ditto, having the thoracic and pelvic, but without the abdominal viscera. 20 Trunk and head of a young subject, the bronchi are dissected and preserved, the ramifications of the superior mesenteric artery and the diaphragm are retained in situ naturali. 21 A foot with its tendons, torn off by some machine. 22 An interesting specimen of the greater part of the pelvis, containing the uterus a fortnight post partum, with the vagina, bladder and rectum, distended, dried and varnished ; the termination of the aorta and the commencement of the vena cava abdominalis with the hypogastric vessels, are injected. N.B. This preparation aftbrds an example of the diminished and compressed figure of the bladder, occasioned by the pressure of the uterus during the period of gestation. 23 An entire thorax, all the intercostal muscles are removed, showing the heart, lungs, the course of the internal mammary branches of the subclavian arteries : the anterior and posterior mediastina, with their contents j an interesting view of the diaphragm preserved in its natural form ; a part of the aorta abdominalis and corresponding vena cava, with some vessels arising from the former and others terminating in the latter j the subclavian arte- ries are also preserved j the impression produced by them on the surface of the first ribs is obvious, as is also their relation to the musculi scaleni • the axillary plexus of the nerves, and one clavicula and scapula are retained. 24 An arterial preparation of the superior extremity of a young subject. 25 The thorax ot a kid (Capra Hircus), containing the heart and its vessels, with I the vena azygos and ductus thoracicus j injected. 26 The lower part of the trunk and extremities of a young female subject, in- jected : the diaphragm, liver, stomach, spleen, kidneys, sigmoid flexure of the colon are preserved with the pelvic viscera and external organs beautifully displayed. 27 A fine preparation of the stomach of an adult subject, distended j with the gall-bladder, its ducts, and a part of the diaphragm ; the aorta with the coeliac artery and its ramifications are injected j also a view of the intesti- num duodenum. 28 Ditto : the pancreas: the splenic artery and vein, with the sinus portae inject- ed and preserved. : 29 Ditto, with almost the entire of the intestinum duodenum : a part of the aorta, the coeliac artery and its branches are injected. 30 An interesting specimen of a mc<rbid stomach, stuffed j permanently con- tracted across near its middle, thus separating the cardiac portion of this viscus from the pyloric: the pylorus is extremely well seen. 31 A portion of the intestinum jejunum with its mesentery (the vessels are injected),* distended, dried in a circular form, and varnished. 32 The oesophagus, glandulae gastricse, stomach, tongue^ superior larynx, trachea, and bronchi^ distended, dried and varnished : from a stork (Ciconia alba). 33 An injected preparation of the adult human stomach, distended, dried and var- nished 3 also exhibiting a distinct view of the pylorus. 34 Female organs, both external and internal 3 the bladder and rectum ; dis- tended, dried and varnished : from a quadruped. ^ 35 The liver of a fcctas3 injected, dried, &c. 36 The female organs both external and internal: distended, dried and var- nished. 37 A portion of the intestinum ileum : injected, stuffed, &c. 38 Ditto, showing the cellular membrane between the different coats. 39 A minutely injected adult stomach 3 stuffed, &c. 40 A fine injected stomach filled with Paris plaster ; the pylorus being very distinct; from a young subject. Presented by Dr. Hooper. 41 A portion of the colon ; injected, distended, kc. 42 The cranium of a skate fish (Raia Batis). 43 The trachea and bronchi of a turtle (Chelonia Midas). M 2FXJUKilii£.Nl 11 UAl'Jj SAl^lL. ™ [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] The bladder distended : the hj/pogastric arteries and their umbilical branches injected ; from a fcetus. 45 The uterus and vagina with the bladder and urachus distended &c.: from a slink calf. 46 The vertebral column, pelvis and inferior extremities of a foetus at eiijht 84 LOT f44 L f47 months of gestation : dried and varnished. The female organs both external and internal, the bladder and rectum dis. tended, &c.: from a fawn (Cervus Dama). 48 The uterus and its appendages,with a section of the bladder : from a slink calf. I 49 The cmcum, appendix vermiformis, and a portion of the intestinum ileum: L injected, dried, &c. 50 The uterus, its appendages, with the bladder ; from a small quadruped. 51 Ditto ; from a foetus. 52 A ligamentous preparation of the lower part of the fore-arm and hand, from the adult subject. 53 The skeleton trunk of a foetus. 54 A preparation consisting of the clavicula, scapula, and part of the osbrachii, exhibiting the ligaments of the shoulder-joint: dried, varnished, &c. 55 The lower part of the osbrachii, radius, ulna, and hand,with their ligaments; dried, &c. 56 Ligaments of the shoulder-joint and clavicula. 57 Ditto. 58 Ligaments of the whole of the superior extremity, including the clavicula and scapula. 59 Ditto of the elbow-joint, fore-arm, carpus, and phalanges digitorum ; dried, &c. 60 Ligaments of the elbow-joint. 61 The entire superior extremity, including both clavicula and scapula; having all the ligaments dissected, dried, &c. 62 A very interesting preparation of the whole of the inferior extremity, inclu- ding half of the pelvis, having all the ligaments dissected, and the fasciee of the leg preserved, &c. 63 Ditto, without either pelvis or fascim., 64 Ditto. 65 Ditto, with the fascise. 66 Ditto, with half the pelvis and its ligaments ; also the fascim of the leg. Calculi, &c. 67 A multitude of biliary concretions. 68 Ditto. 69 Ditto. 70 Ditto. 71 A fine specimen of vesical calculus, principally lithic acid. 72 Biliary concretions. 73 The gall-bladder replete wulh concretions, chiefly cholesterine, with inspis- sated bile. 74 One angular gall-stone. 75 Several small ditto. 76 One small calculus. 77 A tray of pebbles found in the stomach of a crane (Grus communis). 78 Several small biliary concretions. 79 A fine specimen of vesical calculus, consisting of the phosphates upon oxalate of lime 80 An interesting specimen of extremely minute mixed phosphates, from the urinary bladder. 81 Small biliary concretions.85 rtrt/n, 1 i!iiL.rsf 1 n 15AX.I7; [Duty to he 'paid hy the Purchaser LOT 82 Ditto. 83 Ditto. 84 Ditto, much larger. 85 A small vesical calculus, principally consisting of lithic acid, but possessing a peculiarity. 86 Small biliary concretions. 87 A very remarkable vesical calculus, consisting chiefly of phosphates ex- ternally. 88 A small tray of bezoars. 89 Two fractured urinary calculi. 90 A box replete with urinary concretions. 91 A bisected urinary calculus, consisting chiefly of phosphates. 92 A large biliary concretion, formed principally of cholesterine. 93 A very large urinary calculus of an unusual irregular form. *93 A large oblong calculus, composed of lithic acid, animal matter, and some phosphates externally. **93 A large oblong and very rough (fractured) calculus, composed of lithic acid, animal matter, and some phosphates externally. 94 A compressed oblong and somewhat irregular vesical calculus, consisting of phosphates and probably lithic acid in the centre. *94 Ditto. 95 A fine specimen of vesical calculus, formed chiefly of phosphates exter- nally. 96 Concretions formed in the rectum ; composition doubtful. 97 Minute biliary concretions. 98 Biliary concretions, one large and four small. 99 A urinary calculus, consisting of oxalate of lime. 100 Ditto, supposed to be lithic acid in part. 101 Minute biliary concretions. 102 A small calculus. 103 A most singular and irregular vesical calculus about the size of a large nut- meg, composed of oxalate of lime. 104 Fine specimens of biliary concretion, consisting of cholesterine 105 A large vesical calculus (lithic acid), extracted and presented by the late John Sheldon, Esq. 106 Biliary concretions of considerable size (cholesterine). 107 A kidney having a large calculus contained in its pelvis. *107 Ditto, much smaller, and two other specimens of renal calculi. *107 An uncommonly fine calculus, formed in, and of the figure of, the pelvis of a kidney. 108 A small tray of biliary concretions. 109 A specimen of vesical calculus, composed of lithic acid and mixed phos- phates externally. 110 A box containing some small biliary concretions. 111 Ditto. 112 Ditto. 113 A large biliary concretion (cholesterine). 114 Two small biliary concretions. 115 A tray containing many biliary concretions. 116 A box containing a number of biliary concretions, some large. 117 Ditto, less in size. 118 Ditto. 119 Ditto. 120 Ditto. 121 Ditto. 122 Ditto, larger specimens. 123 Ditto, small.FIFTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 2 The cranium of Sharp, who assassinated the unfortunate mistress of a chand- FRIDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment F. continued, LOT 124 A fine example of tVie gall-bladder, distended by two very large and somewhat spherical biliary concretions: the ducts are preserved in this specimen. 125 A biliary concretion contained in a box. 126 Three ditto. 127 An intestinal concretion formed in the rectum (composition doubtful). 128 An interesting specimen of a vesical calculus, consisting chiefly of the phosphates. 129 A multitude of biliary concretions, contained in a box. 130 Several small ditto. 131 Two sm.all biliary concretions. 132 A box, containing five compressed mgagropili; some bisected: from the horse. 133 A very large bisected vesical calculus, which contains a nucleus of con- siderable size, consisting chiefly of lithic acid. 134 The half of an extremely large vesical calculus, consisting of lithic acid, animal matter, and some phosphates. 135 A very large and beautiful specimen of a bisected vesical calculus, con- sisting of lithic acid. 136 A tray containing many aegagropili and bezoars, some bisected j the nucleus of one of the latter is an iron nail: from the horse. 137 A cast in bronze of a very large vesical calculus, surrounded by a deep and circular groove towards one extremity. Presented by Thomas Cope- land, Esq. 138 A large oblong equine bezoar. 139 Ditto, of a triangular figure. 140 A tray of equine aegagropili and bezoars. 141 A most extraordinary (perhaps unique) specimen of a very large oblong vesical calculus, voided by a lady per urethram. Presented by Henry Hurst, Esq. 142 A vesical calculus from the male subject, of a large size (nearly the half of the ordinary magnitude of the bladder), being surrounded at its middle by a deep sulcus. 143 Two equine aegagropili and one large bezoar j the latter cut and polished. 144 A small box containing many biliary concretions. 145 A tray of equine aegagropili and bezoars. 146 A single equine bezoar. Compartment I. Containing a multitude of human crania, some from assassins, others exotic, sections of skulls, and a considerable number of comparative preparations, subjects in natural history, &c. LOT 1 A beautiful specimen of the cranium, lower jaw and teeth of Perou, a Spaniard, who, having lost his right arm, assassinated a British soldier with a fork held in his left hand, whilst festively commemorating the battle of Waterloo. Presented by J. H. Green, Esq. P. A.FiFoiEisrrff ra 87 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT ler’s shop at Kentish Town. N.B. In this cranium there is a large suture running across the os occipitale just above its superior transverse ridge, and anteriorly a frontal suture. 3 An excellent preparation of the cranium of Owen, a Cambrian assassin. He murdered the paramour of his wife, having nearly detected them inter nuptias. 4 A cranium and lower jaw, the bones of which are extremely compact and pon- derous. 5 A singular cranium and lower jaw, having a remarkably brutish aspect 5 pro- bably of a pugilist. 6 A cranium of an edentulous subject. 7 Ditto. 8 Ditto. 9 Ditto. 10 The cranium of a young adult female subject. 11 A cranium, the right os maxillare superius is partly destroyed by caries. 12 An adult cranium of a small size, having an incipient exostosis at the harmo- nia palatina longitudinalis. 13 A cranium, the left os parietale is removed, and sections have been made into the sinus pituitarii frontales, maxillaris, dexter, and the cellulae eth- moidales. 14 Ditto, having a portion of the bones of the face removed, showing the subja- cent parts. 15 The cranium of a subject at about ten or twelve years of age. 16 Ditto, somewhat younger. 17 The eight bones of the head united. 18 An edentulous cranium, the sutures of which are obliterated: thetrochlese (processus trochleares) for the passage of the tendons of the musculi obliqui superiores oculorum form acute spiculse, and the processus styloides of the temporal bones are unusually long. Exotic Crania. 39 The cranium of an ancient Dane. Presented by Sir A. Carlisle. 20 The cranium of a Swede. N.B. Many portions of the bones of this specimen are, from some unknown cause,membranous (absorbed): e. g. the squamous process of the left os temporale, the orbitar processes of the os frontale, ethmoidale, and maxillaria superiora. 21 A Royal cranium, viz. from one of the kings of Munster 5 with an authentic document. Presented by — Lambert, Esq. 22 The head of a Gaul, viz. of a knight of Napoleon’s legion of honour, having several obvious coups de Sabre on its superior surface. The individual from whom this skull was procured died of aneurism in St. George’s Hospital. Ob- tained through the kindness of — Snell, Esq. surgeon dentist. 23 The cranium of a Hindoo, found on the banks of the river Hoogle. Pre- sented by Robert Davey, Esq. N.B. The region of the organ of veneration is clearly manifested in this specimen, and said to be common to all the na- tion. 24 The cranium of a native of Otaheite. 25 The cranium of a female native of Australia (somewhat doubtful). 26 A cranium of a male native of Australia (undoubted). Brought to England by Major Morrison, and presented by Dr. Henry Davies. 27 Ditto, of a different caste, having had the two anterior incisor teeth of the upper jaw extracted for the purpose of establishing identity. 28 The cranium of a descendant of the aborigines of Peru. N.B. There is a remarkable obliquity of the left lateral and posterior part of the cranium, artificially produced by pressure from infancy, indicative of the caste. Brought to Europe, and presented by — M^'Laren, Esq. Surgeon, R. N.FIFTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 88 {Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,"I LOT 29 Ditto, of another caste, somewhat larger and having the obliquity on the right and posterior part of the cranium. Presented by the same gentleman. 30 A cranium from a native of Igloolik, an island in the arctic ocean, latitude 69° 21'. Brought to Pinglandand presented by John Edwards, Esq. then Sur- geon to H. M. S. Fury, on the return of the third Arctic expedition, October 1823. 31 A cranium of an Esquimaux Indian. 32 Another cranium from the island of Igloolik. Presented by John Edwards, Esq., Surgeon, R. N. 33 A cranium of a young adult African. 34 Ditto, older. 35 Ditto. 36 Ditto. 37 A cranium of a young lady who died of an enormous osteo-chondromatous tumor of the lower jaw, commencing at the right condyloid process, and terminating at the angle on the opposite side. N.B. The cranium is genuine, but the tumor is represented by a cast in plaster of Paris, from the disease which was sold at the preceding sale, contained in a large globe in spirits, compartment H of the Gallery. 38 A very fine adult cranium, which may be considered as well formed. 39 A tray of bones of the head and face. 40 Ditto. 41 Ditto. 42 Ditto. 43 A tray containing the basis of a cranium, and some detached bones of ditto. 44 A box containing a number of specimens of sterna, ribs, and ossified cartilages. 45 A box containing sections of bones of the head and face. 46 A tray containing the crania of a monkey and a dog. 47 A tray containing the basis of a cranium, and sundry bones of the head. 48 A bisected cranium, basis of a skull, and several calvarias. 49 A tray containing sundry bones of the face. 50 A calvaria remarkable for possessing the region of the organ of venera- tion in a high degree. 51 A box containing sections of almost all the human bones, for the purpose of showing cancelli and diploe. 52 A tray of sundry bones of the head and face. 53 Ditto. 54 The cranium of a foetal lamb. 55 A cast of the external genital organs of a male patient afflicted with mal- formation of the urinary bladder (or rather of its absence), having the ureters terminating at a fungous excrescence situated at the lower part of the abdomen, from whence the urine constantly distilled guttatim. N.B. The individual died in St. James’s Infirmary. 56 A plaster mask, coloured from nature, of Williams, the presumed assassin of Williamson’s and Mars’s families. 57 A cast from a hand, of which the middle, ring, and little fingers have been am- putated, in consequence of a carious affection. N.B. By this operation the remaining members of the hand, viz. the thumb and index finger, became a tolerably useful substitute for the entire hand ^ enabling the patient, an officer in the army, to perform most functions with it as he had been pre- viou.sly accustomed to do. The operation was performed and the cast pre- sented by John Evans Riadore, Esq. 58 A cast of the trunk of a foetus between five and six months of gestation ; exhi- biting both thoracic and abdominal viscera in situ naturali 5 coloured after nature, 59 A box containing various bones from most parts of the human skeleton. 60 Ditto.FIFTEE]^^ m 1>AY"S JSKIuJL; 89 [Diity to be paid by the Purehaser.'] LOT 62 A box, containing various bones, from most parts of the human skeleton. : 63 Ditto. 64 Ditto. 65 Ditto. Comparative Anatomy, Natural History, &c. 66 A box, containing various bones from the Horse, some diseased. ' 67 Ditto, very much diseased, from a Lion. 68 Ditto from the Ostrich, Cassowary, Albatros (cranium), also of the Cycnus ferus, (Hooper,) &c. 69 A fine specimen of the jaws of a Shark (Squalus). 70 Ditto of the Angel-fish (Squatina), very large. 71 Ditto of the Shark. 72 Ditto, very large. 73 Ditto of the Angel-fish (Squatina). 74 Ditto. 75 Ditto of the Shark, very large. 76 Ditto of a smaller size. 77 Ditto, enormously large, and having a relay of four rows of latent teeth. 78 Ditto from a smaller fish. 79 Ditto, less. SO An uncommonly interesting dried vascular preparation of the external internal sexual organs of a Camel which died pregnant: the bladder rectum are also preserved and distended. In the larger cornu of choice specimen, Mr. Brookes discovered a foetus about the period of three months’ gestation : the clitoris and plexus retiformis are well injected, i 81 A box containing various comparative Crania, &c. I 82 The horn of a Gnu (Catablepas operculatus). ! 83 The horn of a Plicated Antilope (Antilope Euchore). 84 A fine specimen of the horn of a large Caucasian Goat (Capra Caucasica). 85 Ditto of the Egyptian Antilope (Antilope Oryx). 86 The mask and horns of a large Stag(Cervus Elaphus). I 87 A tray containing the pelves of various female quadrupeds viz. the mare, cow, I hind, tigress, panther, bear, sow, and bitch, the symphises pubis of which I are all ossified. I 88 A horn of the Guazoupoucon (Mexican Deer, Cervus paludosus). I 89 A hoof of a large ruminant animal, (probably from a Nyl Ghau,) dredged up from the bottom of the river Thames. Presented by James Winston, Esq. 90 A section of the antler of a Stag. 91 A pair of horns of the Chamois (Rupicapra hamuliformis). 92 A tray of various comparative bones. 93 Part of the cranium and horns of a Reindeer (Tarandus rangifer) 94 Ditto, without the cranium, beautifully polished, the epidermis being removed. 95 A box, containing sundry comparative crania, and other bones, viz. the skull of a common Swan (Cycnus Olor), (Hooper) Cycnus ferus, &c. 96 Part of the cranium and horns of a very large Elan (Antilope Oreas). 97 The cranium and horns of a fine Bouquetin (Capra Ibex). 98 A very fine cranium and horns (the latter being beautifully polished) of the Goat (Capra Hircus). 99 The cranium of a Jaguar (Felis Onca). 100 A cranium of a Babyrussa (Sus Babyrussa). 101 The left inferior extremity of a Leopard. 102 The left tibia and fibula of a very large Seal, 103 Part of the pelvis of a Grampus (Delphinus Orca). 104 The right inferior extremity of a Leopard. 105 The sabot of a Hippopota^nus. 106 Ditto. and and this N90 SIXTEENTHTTOY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 107 The sabot of a Hippopotamus. C108 Ditto, constituting four fine specimens. < 109 The sabot of a Rhinoceros. Luo Ditto, 111 The phalanges of the three toes of one foot of ditto. 112 The cannon bone of a Stag. 113 The lower jaws of a Gnu (Catablepas operculatus). 114 A box, containing various bones of a young Elephant (Elephas Asiaticus). SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Zoology, Comparative Anatomy, &c., chiefly stuffed Birds in Glass Cases. LOT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 A glass case, containing a very fine specimen of a stuffed Torpedo (Torpedo macroura). A fine Mocking-bird (Orpheus polyglottis). Presented by Mr. Castang. A beautiful specimen of a Marikina (Midas rosalia. Singe, Lion) : stuffed, in a glass case. A glass case, containing sections of the egg of the Ostrich and other birds. A fine specimen of a male Ruff (Machetes carunculatus). Ditto of the Cracticus Cuvieri. A splendid specimen of the Harfang (Snowy Owl, Noctua nyctea). A fine example of that very rare inhabitant of Australia, theWattle-bird (Caleas cinerea). A handsome stuffed Marcassin (a young wild Boar, Sus Aper). An Egyptian mummy, contained in a glass case, surrounded by fasciae j also) the two inferior extremities of another, as purchased at Mr. Bullock’s sale. An excellently stuffed crested Mophnus (Mophnus ornatus). A stuffed specimen of a rare European bird, the Great Auk (Alka impennis). A choice specimen of that extremely scarce bird, the Cariama (Microdactylus cristatus), in a handsome glass case. 14 A beautiful toothed Gilthead (Sparus Raii). 1.5 A most elegant Horned Pheasant (Diceratornis Satyrus), contained in a ma- hogany veneered case, glassed all around. 16 A male Savacou (Cancroma cochlearia) : this charming specimen is fur nished with a very extensive crest, and admirably stuft’ed. ! 17 A Frigate-bird (Tachypetes Aquila) ; these singular birds are remarkable for ( having an acuminated bill, in which respect they approach the albatros j gular pouch, very long wings, a forked tail, and feet so diminutive as to be little fitted, apparently, for either terrestrial or natatorial purposes j—are frequently seen more than 1000 miles from land. A specimen of an Australian Dove (Columbamonolopha), brought from beyond the Blue Mountains, and presented by Evan Evans, Esq. surgeon, R. N.^ A fine crested and red-cheeked but short-tailed large black psittacoid bird (Microglossum pyrrhogene). The blackMaccao ; stuffed: extremely scarce. 20 A specimen of an European Stilt (Himantopus melanopterus), a rare British bird, commonly called the Long-legged Plover. 21 The Southern Insect Harrier (Entomophila australis). Presented by Paul Brookes, Esq. 18 19SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 91 \jDuty to he paid by the Purchaser^ OT 22 A beautiful example of a stuffed Moon-fish (Cephalus Mola). 23 A handsome Goshawk of the first year (Astur palumbarius.) 24 An uncommonly fine example of the Cushrew Curassow (Crax pauxi). 25 A choice specimen of a Sheathbill (Cfeionis alba). N.B. This bird is the first individual introduced into Europe, being brought from New Holland by Sir Joseph Banks, on his return with the celebrated but unfortunate circum- navigator, Captain Cooke. It was presented by Sir Joseph Banks to Mr. Bullock, and purchased by Mr. Brookes at the latter gentleman’s sale. 26 The Sedge Willow Bird (Salicaria arundinaria). 27 The ash-coloured Echenilleur (Tyrannus canus). 28 The Hermit Bird (Monassa ater). 29 A very beautiful specimen of the Agami Heron (Ardea Agami). Presented by — Cate, Esq. 30 Ditto of a Courlan (Aramus scolopaceus). 31 A remarkable specimen of a stuffed Gold Pheasant (Phasianus pictus). N.B. This individual is a female, or rather an androgynous bird, assuming the plumage of the male, in consequence of preternatural conformation of the sexual organs, as proved by Mr. Yarrell.'—Vide this gentleman’s lucid dissertation published in the Linnean Transactions. 32 A fine example of a stuffed Tunny (Thynnus communis). . 33 A stuffed specimen of the Gyr Falcon (Falco sacer). An Osprey (Pandion fiu- viatilis). 34 A box containing sundry human bones, from most parts of the skeleton. 35 Ditto. 36 Ditto. 37 Ditto. 38 The penis of a large Whale, dried. 39 An interesting preparation of the heart and all its vessels, injected, dried, &c. The carotides and vena jugularis are traced to the head j the tongue, supe- rior larynx, trachea, and bronchi, with the oesophagus, are preserved. From an adult Ostrich (Struthio Camelus). 40 A beautiful specimen of the'sternum, os furciforme, claviculee and scapulae, with the tortuous and singular convolutions of the trachea, descending into the interior of the sternum, with its exit and inferior larynx: from the com- ! mon male Crane (Grus communis). j41 A finely injected preparation of the heart, its vessels, and the whole of the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the anus, of a Cassowary (Casupriiis galeatus). N.B. The intestines of this bird are remarkably short, possi- bly from being an inhabitant of places affording abundance of food. 42 The whole of the vertebral column, extending from the head to the final ter- mination of the ossa caudata : from a large Dog. 43 Part of the spine and tail of ditto. The ossa caudata of another quadruped, with the radius and ulna anchylosed : probably from a Hog. 44 The scapula and various bones, (one anomalous,) from difierent quadrupeds. 45 A tray of various comparative bones. 46 A calvaria of great antiquity and of unusual length, which with its accom- panying os brachii were discovered in a Scandinavian crypt, contiguous to the Piets Wall, by Dr. Traill 3 by whom these ancient remains were presented to Mr. Brookes, with the authentic document. 47 A cast of the head of a large Ichthyosaurus (mutilated), coloured after the ori- ginal. 48 An os femoris taken from a stone sarcophagus found in a crypt of the chapel in the ancient castle at Hastings, by R. Bellingham, Esq , and by that gen- tleman presented to Mr. Brookes, with the authentic document. 49 A pair of ossa femorum, taken out of an ancient Caledonian sepulchre Presented by John Brookes, Esq. N 292 SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. \JDuty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT 50 An inferior maxillary bone^ found in the mausoleum of the abbot of the monas- tery of St. Magnus Osyth, St. Albans. Presented by Joshua John Brookes, Esq., with the document. 51 The upper part of an os femoris, of great antiquity. Presented bv John Frost, hisq., with an authentic document. 52 A tray of cuspidati (teeth), from large Seals. 53 Teeth from small Catodons. 54 Ditto from unknown Marine animals. 55 A large tusk from a Morse (Trichechus Ilosmarus). 56 Ditto. 57 Various teeth from large Seals. 58 A very large tusk of an old Ethiopian Boar (Phascocheres Ethiopicus). 59 The tooth of a Cachalot (Physeter macrocephalus). GALLERY. A choice collection of very rare exotic Animals, chiefly Birds, stuffed and in spirits; dried skins, &c. Compartment A. Stuffed Birds in Bottles. LOT 1 An excellent specimen of theYellow-billed Tanraanac (Phibalura flavirostris)-, stuffed. 2 The Greater Tamatia (Capito macrorhynchus). 3 A Dottrel (Charadrius morinellus). 4 The common Knot (Catidris islandica). 5 Chinese Oriole (Oriolus Sinensis). 6 An exotic bird. 7 A fine specimen of a rare bird, the White-winged Crossbill (Loxia falci- rostra). 8 A superb Merion (Malurus cyaneus). 9 A scarce exotic bird. 10 An Oriental Roller (Colaris Orientalis). 11 A specimen of the extremely rare British bird the Three-toed Woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus). 12 The Troglodytes Rail (Rallus australis). 13 A Ringed Pratincole (Glareola torqiiata). 14 A Cape Rhynchsea (Rynchasa Capensis). 15 A Haw Grosbeak (Coccothraustes vulgaris). 16 A brown Flycatcher (Muscicapa fusca). 17 A pigmy Curlew (Numenius subarquatus). 18 The Barred Owl (Chouette, Ulula nebulosa). 19 The Cayenne Falcon (Cymindis Cayennensis). 20 The Honey Buzzard (Pemis apivorus). 21 A fine specimen of that scarce bird theRhaad Florikin (lloubara Rhaad). 22 A specimen of a mre British bird, viz. the Field Bustarnelle (Tetrax cam- pestris), shot in England, and purchased at Mr. Bullock’s sale. A female. 23 The Brazilian Coua (Coccyzus Giiira). Compartment B. 24 A Marsh Titmouse (Parus palustris). 2.5 The J/ittlo Plover (Charadrius minor).SIXTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 93 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] OT IQ A Chinese Nuthatch (Sitta Sinensis). 17 The Little Cavy (Chloromys minutus). 18 A White-chinned Vireo (Vireo gularis.) 29 An European Calander (Calandra BufFonii). Presented by Dr. Leach. 50 A Gartered Vireo (Vireo armillaris). 51 A Canadian Pitylus (Pitylus Canadensis). 52 A common Phalarope (Phalaropus Platyrhynchus). 53 The Little Siberian Horned Owl (Scops Zorca). 54 A choice specimen of that rare bird the large spinous-tailed Swallow (Chae- tura acanthura). Presented by Capt. Langdon. 55 A Cayenne Pit-pit (Dacuis Cay ana). 56 A Hottentot Turnix (Ortygis Hottentottus). 57 A foreign Certhia. 58 The heads of the male and female Eider (Samoteria mollissima;. 59 A Yellow-bellied Curucui (Trogon viridis). 10 A Little Auk (Mergulus melanoleucus). 11 A Gilded Lampronotus (Lampronotus auratus). 12 An European Ouzel (Hydrobata Europaea). 13 A fine specimen of that rare British bird the Little Rail (Crake, Zapornia minuta). 44 A Chalybian Cassican (Barita viridis), imperfect. 45 A Flamingo (Phaenicopterus Antiquorum). 16 A beautiful specimen of the Phasianoid Touraco (Corythaix phasianoides). 47 A Fire-backed Pheasant (Phasianalector Macartneyi). 48 A common Booby (Sula hebes). Presented by Robert Brown, Esq. 49 The Moon Pheasant(Eperonni Diplectron chinquis). 50 A Mummy of a deified quadruped, viz. an ^Elurus, or Sacred Cat, venerated in a particular manner by the ancient Egyptians, who adored these animals when living as a symbol of the moon ; implying, by the contraction and re- laxation of the iris, the increase and decrease of that changeful planet. The Sacred Cats were kept in a dytaand daintily fed (with Siluri nourished in reservoirs), when dead they were preserved as mummies. Death was inflicted on those who destroyed them. Vide in Maurice’s Ruins of Baby- lon, the consecrated rites of Neomania, held annually at Bubastes. Brought from the Catacombs of Thebes, and presented by Madden, Esq. Compartment C. 51 A Spotted Moucherolle (Muscipetamaculata). 52 A Black-capped Manakin (Pipra Manacus). 53 A Garden Warbler (Dagela hortensis). 54 The saw of a moderate sized Saw-fish (Pristis Aiitiquorum). 55 Ditto much smaller, probably of a younger specimen, or of another species. 56 Ditto, very large. 57 A common White-throat (Spipola cinerea). 58 A Stormy Petrel (Thalassidroma pelagica). 59 A white-ramped Black Barbacus (Barbacus tenebrosus). 60 A Starling (Sturnus vulgaris). 61 A varied Icterus (Icterus varius). 62 An American Xanthorn (Xanthornus Americanus). 63 The Beeve Larva-eater (Buphaga apicivora). 64 A common Green Woodpecker (Picus viridis). 65 An Ash-coloured Psaris (Psaris cayana). 66 A common Sanderling (Prenaria calidris). 67 A Haemorrhoidal Bee-eater, Cat-bird (Merops hsemorrhoidalis), 68 A Wryneck (Yunx torquilla).SEVENTEENTH DAY’S SALE. TUESDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment C. continued, LOT 69 Cayenne Barbet (Bucco Cayanus). 70 Slender-billed Melitopbaga (Melitophaga tenuirostris). 71 A Crimson-winged Wall-creeper (Echelette, Trichodoma phoenicoptera). 72 A White-faced Ant-eater, (Fourmillier, Myotheca albifrons). 73 A Black-capped Brazilian Warbler (Coereba Spiza). 74 A Goldfinch (Chevril, Carduelis acanthis). 75 A Cayenne Warbler, Guitguit (Nectarinia Cyanea). 76 A specimen of the Night Heron (Nycticorax Europaeus). 77 A White-bellied Hatchet-bill (Pelecyrhynchus Leucogaster). Presented by Dr. Leach. 78 Beautiful specimens of the capsules of the Black Henbane (Hyoscyamus niger). 79 A Pondicherry Falcon (Falco Pondicerianus). 80 A large Crown Pigeon (Crested Goura, Lophyrus coronatus): defective. Compartment D. 81 A Trumpeter (Psophia crepitans). 82 The gray triple-banded-tailed Hawk (Asturina cinerea). 83 A Tock (Calao nasutus). 84 A fine specimen of a Coly (Colius striatus). 85 The Little Heron spotted Boonk (Ardeola nsevia). 86 A pair of spotted Tanotes (Tetanus curonica). N.B. These very fine speci- mens are particularly interesting, inasmuch as one bird is in its full winter, and the other in its summer, plumage. 87 A handsome specimen of a Glossy Ibis (Ibis ignea). 88 A pair of uncommonly fine specimens of the King Duck, male and female (Sa- moteriaspectabilis). Shot at Melville Island, and presented by John Edwards, Esq. Surgeon R. N. 89 A handsome Spotted Mophnus (Mophnus maculatus). 90 A Brazilian Motmot (Prionites Braziliensis). 91 A beautiful specimen of the Cerule Crane, Oiseau du soleil (Eurypyga Helias). 92 A specimen of the American Jabira (Mycteria Americana) : defective. Compartment E. 1 A Corn-Crake (Crex ortygometra). 2 A Ceylon Shrike (Lanius Ceylonicus) : a very beautiful specimen. 3 A Yellow-tufted Philedon (Melliphaga auricoma). 4 A Sand Attagen (Pterocles arenarius). 5 A greater Pagonias (Pagonias major). 6 A forked-tailed Drongo (Edolius forficatus). 7 A green Touracon (Corythaix persa). 8 A Rose Pastor (Pastor roseus). 9 A Forked-tailed Tyrant (Tyrannus forficatus). 10 African Francolin (Francolinus Afer). 11 The King Tanypus (Pitta Rex). 12 A Turnstone (Strepsilas collaris). 13 An Indicator (Indicator mellivorus). LOI H 15 16 17 18 15 20 21 22 1 2 S 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 12 11 15 16 17 18 IS 21 II 2- ‘ 2iSEVENTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 95 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 14 A Crested Rouloul (Liponyx coronatus). 15 A common Gallinule (Gallinula Chloropus). 16 A violet Touraco (Corythaix violaceus). 17 A Jerboa (Dipus sagitta). 18 A specimen of a Pelican (Onocrotalus Pelecanus). 19 A tufted Umbre (Scopus Umbretta). 20 A Cheironectes (Cheironectes Minima) : doubtful. 21 A very fine specimen of the Squa Gull (Catarrhacta fusca): scarce. 22 A Skimmer (Rhynchops niger). 1 A New Holland Coucal (Centropus speciosus). 2 A Papuan Choucaris (Graculus Papuensis). 3 A Crested Grakle (Gracula cristatella). 4 A Black Tesserin (Ploceus niger). 5 A Globe Sun-fish (Tetraodon stellatus). 6 Guiana Picucule (Dendrocolaptes Guiana). 7 The three following birds are on a stand covered with a glass shade Temminck’s Short-toe (Brachydactyla Temminckii), Grasshopper Warbler (Dilara Locustella), Languedoc Penduline (Paraeoreus Narbonnensis). ° Cayenne Barbet (Bucco nigro-maculatus). A Virginian Fern-bird (Caprimulgus Virginianus). Greenland Dove, (Black Scraber, Grylla scapularis). Greater Woodpecker (Picus major). A broad-billed Prion (Pachyptila vittata). A yellow Echenilleur (Ceblepyris flava). The Emeu bird (Merion, Malurus malachurus). Snow Plectrophanes (Plectrophanes nivalis). Sandpiper (Tringa hypoleucos). Yellow Chatterer (Bombicivora lutea). Two pendant feathers from the head of the Nycticorax Europeeus. Redstart (Ruticilla phsenicura). Bearded Reed-bird (Calamophilus biarmicus). An Australian Chough (Fregilus Leucomelus). A female Ornithorhynchus (Ornithorhynchus buccatus). A fine specimen of the Funereal Cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus). Guiana Catraca, Motmot Pheasant (Ortalida Paraqua). The long-billed Cockatoo (Plyctolophus Macrorhamphus). Presented by Robert Brown, Esq. N.B. This bird probably is the only individual of its species in Europe, and is the identical specimen described by Temminck. The Senegal Coucal (Centropus Sengalensis). The Bearded Averano (Casmarhynchus barbatus). The double carunculated Spurwing (Spurwinged Plover, Acantropterus bilo- bus) : imperfect. The red-billed Epimachus (Epimachus erythrorhynchus). The crested Rupicole (Rupicola cristata): a female, very rare. A tufted Mormon (Puffin, Fratercula glacialis). Presented by Mr. Hall: an indifferent specimen, but very rare. Red-leg Chough (Fregilus graculus): a very fine specimen. Frank’s Guillemot (Uria Francii). Presented by — Reed, Esq. A fine specimen of a scarce bird. ' A common Greenshank (Limosa grisea). ' A Whimbrel (Numenius Phaeopus). Compartment F. Compartment G.SEVENTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 96 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 10 The greater Tinamou (Tinamus major). ] 1 A black and white Cassican (Cracticus leucomela). 12 Ceylon Tantalus (Tantalus leucocephalus). Compartment H. Presented by Pro- -Wil. A wood Fanissa (Wren, Fanissa sylvicola). The lesser Pettychaps (Hippolais Aldrovandi). Yellow-eared Hapale (Hapale penicillatus). Pondicherry Gaper (Crane, Anastomus Pondicerianus) fessor Bonelli: (the head.) An Alpine Accentor (Accentor Alpinus). A Pelecanoides (Haladroma urinatrix). A very rare bird. Papuan Choucaris (Graucalus Papuensis). Evans’s Rail (Rallus Evansii). Shot at Sumatra, and presented by Evan Evans, Esq.: undescribed. 9 A Pintado Petrel (Procelaria Capensis). 10 A Malcolm Rouverdin (Phaenicophaus Rouverdin) : imperfect. Presented by C. I. Temminck, Esq. 11 A Jacamar (Galbula viridis): head only. 12 A gold-headed Manakin (Pipra erithrocephala). 13 A common Wren (Troglodytes Europaeus). 14? A spotted Pardalote (Pardalotus punctatus). 15 A White-fronted Fourmilier (Myothera albifrons). 16 Minute Insect Harrier (Entomophila minuta). 17 Blue-gray Tersina (Tersina coerulea). 18 The Leoncito (Petit Lion d’Humboldt, Midas leoninus). Presented by Hams, Esq. Surgeon R. N. 19 A Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus). 20 A bristly Echidna (Echidna setosa). A fine specimen of a rare animal; stuffed 21 Pompadour Cotinga (Ampelis Pompadora). 22 A Pod of the Mimosa Giraffa; gathered and presented by Dr. Somervillej Physician to Chelsea College; with the authentic document. 23 Waxen Chatterer (Bombycivora ceracea). 24< White-bellied Langrayen (Ocypterus leucorhynchus). 25 A Bengal Breve (Pitta brachyura). 26 A common Blackcap (Ficedula atricapilla). 27 Hedge Dunnoch (Cunuca modulari-j). 28 Little Kingfisher (Alcedo minima): in spirits. 29 The Three-toed Kingfisher (Ceyx tridactyla). 30 A Pied Batara (Shrike, Tamnophilus doliatus). 31 A Red-winged Bee-eater (Merops erythropterus). 32 A Dartford Song-bird (Melizophilus Dartfordiensis). 33 A Cayenne Tanager (Tanagra Cayana). 34< Rapacious Vanga (Vanga Destructor). 35 Foolish Noddy (Anous niger). 36 A white Smew (Mergus albellus). Presented by Mr, Hall. 37 A bald-headed Crow (Pachycephala fusca). 38 A lesser Sultane (Porphyrio Martinensis). 39 Razor-bill (Utamania torda). 40 A beautiful specimen of the cranium of the gigantic Adjutant. 41 Senegal Temia (Temia Senegalensis). 42 Pomarin Jager (Gull, Lestris Pomarinus). 43 Crested Cassicus (Cassicus cristatus): a beautiful specimen. 44 Cayenne Coined (Gymnoderus nudus). 45 Ring-tailed Dilophus (Pigeon, Columba Dilopha). 46 Southern Eriornis (Eriornis antarcticus) j doubtful. 12 il 15 A 17 ScEIGHTEENTH DAY’S SAEE. Y/EDNESDAT, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment K. LOT 1 Glossy Stourne (Laraprotornis senea). 2 African Courol (Leptosomus afer). 3 A knob-fronted Tropidorhynchus (Tropic!orhynchus corniculatus). 4 A common Tern (Sterna nevia). 5 A Tropic Bird (Tropicophilus aethereus). 6 Pied GralJina (Grallina melanoleuca). 7 Senegal Cedola (Cedola Senegalensis). 8 Purple Piroll (Ptilonorrhynchus MacLeayii): female. 9 A JogoOj New Holland Pigeon, Parrot billed Vinago (Treron vernans.) 10 A very large preparation bottle, twenty inches or more in height, and about five in diameter. 11 An African Balancer (Goat-sucker, Caprimulgus longipermis): a most sin- gular bird. I?. A Darter (Plotus Anhinga) : the skin. 13 The Gambo Plectro[)terus (Double Spurwinged Goose, Plectropterus Gam- bensis). 14 An Arctic Jager (Gull, Lestris Cepphus): shot at Melville Island, and pre- sented by Captain Sabine. 15 A Foolish Guillemot (Uria Troile). Compartment I. 1 A Wandering Albatross (Diomedea exulans): the head and feet. 2 An Alpine Chocard (Pyrrocorax Alpinus). 3 New Zealand Poe (Tropidorhynchus cincinnatus): a beautiful specimen. 4 A Chesnut Jacana (Parra Jacana). 5 A ground Australian Parakeet (Pezoporus melanorrhabdotus). 6 A Nutcracker (Caryocatactes nucifraga>. 7 A Green Jacamar (Galbula viridis), 8 A Picated Bethylus (Sir Ashton Lever’s Shrike, Bethylus picatus); a beauti- ful specimen. 9 Arctic Mormon j Parrot-billed Puffin (Fratercula arctica). 10 A preparation bottle. 11 A Party-coloured Cheniscus, the minute Goose, (Brookes’s Cheniscus diversi- color). A rare and beautiful male bird, well stuffed, under a glass shade. 12 A cream-coloured Courier (Plover, Tachydromus Isabellinus). This very rare bird was shot in England, and obtained from Mr. Bullock’s Museum. 13 The male lyre-tailed Menura (Menura superba): in a very large bottle. 14 American Safeguard (Perenetes teguixin): caught at Pernambuca and pre- sented by Street, Esq. 15 A carunculated Averano (The South American Bell-bird, Casmarhynchus ca- runculatus): a splendid specimen, having a long caruncle, and covered by a glass shade. 16 Great Epimachus (Epimaclms raagnus): imperfect, chiefly the tail, in a tall bottle. 17 Scarlet-shouldered Widow-bird (Vidua imperialis). A fine specimen. O98 EIGHTEENTH DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser^ Compartment M. LOT 1 A Youcatou (Setophaga psalura). 2 A Cayenne Coua (Coua Cayenna). 3 A specimen of funnel-shaped Sponge (Spongia infundibuliformis). 4 A Yellow-bellied Trogon (Trogon lurucui). 5 A Green Aracari (Pteroglossus viridis). 6 A Walking Ani (Crotophaga ambulatoria). 7 The large naked-legged auriculated Owl (Gymnopus Leschenaulti). 8 Wandering Albatross (Diomedea exulans) : a skin in a large bottle. 9 A Martin (Mustela Foina): a fine subject well preserved in a large bottle. 10 A Crested Hoazin (Opisthocamus adesmodactylus). A beautiful specimen of this rare bird, in a glass bottle. 11 The Australian Channelled-bill (Scythrops psittaceus). An uncommonly fine specimen. SURBASE OF THE GALLERY. Reptiles, Amphibia, Fishes, parts of Fishes, Mollusca, twelve glass cases of beautiful exotic Insects, many rare and some Nonde- scripts, &c. &c. LOT 1 The saw of a Sawfish (Pristis Antiquorum). • 2 Ditto, much larger. 3 A specimen of that scarce fish, the Gastro branchus caecus. 4 A preparation bottle. 5 A very fine stuffed Bonito (Thynnus sarda). {6 A trachea and larynges of the wood Caperkally (Urogallus capricalca), male : presented by — Yarrell, Esq. 7 A young Sturgeon (Strurio Accipenser). {8 A large Asterias. 9 The dried head and jaws of a Shark (Squalus —). {10 The dried head and jaws of the Wolf-fish (Anarrhicus Lupus). 11 A specimen of an Ostracion (Ostracion concatenatus). 12 The skeleton head of a Coryphena (Coryphena Hippuris). 13 A large Asterias. 14 A specimen of a large Lizard, stuffed. Ditto of a Cayman (Alligator Sclerops). 16 A preparation bottle. 17 A specimen of an Iguana. 18 Ditto, much larger. f 19 The dried foot and toes of an Emu (Dromiceius major). 1 20 Ditto of an African Ostrich (Struthio Camelus). < 21 Ditto of the Cassowary (Cassuarius galeatus). I 22 Ditto of a Crane (Grus communis). L23 Ditto of the Condor (Sarcorhamphus Condor). 24 A very large and fine dried head of a Coryphena (Coryphena hippuris). 25 A King Crab. 26 Ditto, much larger. 27 A scarce Crab, dried. 28 A particularly fine specimen of the Sawfish (Pristis cirratus). From the Southern Pacific ocean. 29 Ditto of a Trumpet-fish (Fistularia tabacaria), very large and perfect. 30 The thorny Diodon (Diodon spinosus). 31 Ditto, a different species. 32 A skin of the long-nosed Ostraciorr (Ostracion nasutus). Pr sented by Mrs. Sargeant.EIGHTEENTH DAY’S SALE. 99 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,'] LOT 33 A dried specimen of that extraordinary fish, the Indian Trichurus. 34 An uncommonly fine cast of perhaps the most perfect Ichthyosaurus extant. The original of this prototype is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 35 A sternum &c. from a larger animal. 36 A fine example of a Pentacrinis Antiquorum. 37 A cast of part of the head and spine of a Proteosaurus. 38 A stuffed specimen of the fish denominated the Sailing Oligopodus (Oiigopodus r velifer.) < 39 A Weaver (Trachinus Mai). t40 A Lump-fish (Cyclopterus lepidogaster), dried and stuffed, r41 A large Flying-fish (Exocetus volitans). < 42 The tail of a large Coryphena Hippuris. C43 A specimen of a Dactylopterus volitans. NATURAL mSTORY.---Contmued, Compartment Y.—Gallery. 1 A specimen of the Pontobdella muricata : in spirits. * 2 Ditto of the pupa of the Sphynx Atropos. 3 Ditto of the Zebra Triton (Newt) : in spirits. 4? An extra-uterine Hare. 5 A small Cornu ammonis. 6 An instance of an iron ball shot into the interior of the tusk of an Elephant, by which it was fractured. 7 A small Echinus. 8 Another example of a ball shot into the interior of the tusk of an Elephant, very interesting. 9 A Hippocampus communis. 10 Another interesting example of a ball shot into the tusk of an Elephant, pro- ducing exostosis, as a means of its elimination. 11 Ditto, in which the ball is still in the interior of the tusk. 12 A section of an Oyster. 13 Spat of ditto. 14? A Taenia. 15 Feathers of a Cassowary, being double with one root. 16 A fine specimen of that remarkable mollusca, Physalia utricula. 17 A Flying-fish (Exocetus volitans). 18 The Mediterranean Wrasse (Labrus Turdus). i 19 The Banded Skink (Tiliqua fasciatus). Lizard. 20 The Ringed Elaps (Elaps annulatus). Snake. 21 A specimen of a double nest of a very large exotic Spider, dug out from a bank. 22 Ditto, single, of the Mygale avicularis. N.B. The elastic ginglymoid opercula of these nidi are particularly interesting. 23 A specimen of a Water-snake (Pelamis platurus.) 24 A specimen of an Ameiva (Lizard). 25 A Snake, species doubtful. 26 A fine example of the Gecko laevis. 27 Ditto of the Walking-leaf (Phillium siccifolium). 28 Ditto of the Spectre (Mantis Spectrum). 29 Ditto of the (Phillurus platurus) Water-snake. 30 A fine specimen of the Dwarf Chameleon (Chameleon pumila.) 31 A fine specimen of a Leptophis snake. 32 A large Scolopendra. S3 A Cuttle-fish (Loligo hastata). 34? A Slow-worm (Anguis fragilis) Snake. 35 Tiliqua 12-lineatus (Lizard).EIGH^J^EENTH DAY’S SALE. 100 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 36‘ An Echineis Remora (Sucking-fish)* 37 A Scolopendra. 38 Ditto. 39 Frogs in coitu. 4*0 A Pupa of a very large Sphynx. 41 A Lepas glacialis : an Ascidia. 42 A Velocipes tetradactylus, rare. 43 An Os Sepiae, decomposed by an acid. 44 A Vomer Brownii. A scarce fish, and a beautiful specimen. 45 A Tiliqua 5-lineatus. 46 The Asp. 47 Ambiguous. 48 Ophiosaurus ventralis. A fine specimen of this rare snake. 49 An Eunice (dissected). 50 A Fistularia tubacaria : a small Trumpet-fish. 51 A Scophena Porcus. 52 A Pipa monstrosa, the dorsal cryptae of which are replete with larvae partially protruding from the marsupial apertures. 53 An Amphisbena fuliginosa. Snake. 54 A Chanleleon Africanus. 55 A Cuttle-fish (Loligo magna) : a portion of a tentaculum, affording a fine example of their numerous singular pneumatic apparatus. NINETEENTH DAY’S SALE. THURSDAY, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] Compartment Y, continued. 56 A Nereis: a fine specimen. 57 Ditto : a different species. 58 A Lacerta viridis, a beautiful specimen of the green-and-gold Jersey Lizard. 59 An Ameiva leminiscata. 60 A Tiliqua aurata. 61 The pelvis, ossa marsupialia and prehensile tail, of the Didelphis Opossum. 62 A very fine specimen of a Jakie (Rana paradoxa); probably a larva of the Rana taurina. 63 The Ornithonyx Banksii; a very rare species of the Cuttle-fish. 64 A Gecko vulgaris. Lizard. 65 The morbid foot of a Sheep that died of the rot. 66 An interesting specimen of a very large Chameleon galeatus, the infundi- buliforni tongue of which is protruded to about ten inches in length. 67 A beautiful specimen of the Torpedo Galvani. 68 A specimen of that rare and anomalous animal the Proteus (Proteus an- guinus). Presented by T. C. Temminck, Esq. 69 A Barnacle (Pentalasmis anatifera). 70 An Anguis fragilis, Slow-worm : viviparous. COMPARTIHENT Z. Reptilia, Amphibia, Fishes, Mollusca, &c. 1 A very large Toad ; purchased of a most respectable dealer for a male Pipa. 2 An example of a rare Snake.l H IJAY S iSALE. 101 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] L OT 4 A Sucking-fish (Echineis Remora). 3 A Snake. 5 Ditto. 6 A beautiful Snake. 7 Ditto. 8 Ditto. 9 Ditto. 10 Ditto. 11 Ditto. 12 Ditto leptophis : a scarce species. 13 A rare Snake. 14? A growing horn of a Deer covered by its velvet. 15 A choice specimen of a small Crab. 16 A fine example of that very large bird-catching Spider, the Mygale avi- cularis. 17 The Echineis lineatus ; a rare species of Sucking fish. 18 A Gecko laevis. Lizard. 19 A Skink (Scincus auratus). Lizard. 20 A Rainette (Hyla grandis), a fine example of that batrachian animal. 21 Another Remora (Echineis Remora): Sucking-fish. 22 A Tiliqua lineatus, (cauda furcata): a double-tailed Skink. 23 A fine large mass of Oyster spat. 24? A hybrid foetus, said to be bred between the Coati Mondi and Opossum. 25 An interesting example of a foetal Crocodile in its egg. 26 A Remora. Sucking-fish. 27 Aspecimen of the Chameleon pusillus. . . 28 A Snake. 29 A very large Scolopendra. 30 Ditto. 31 A small but beautiful and rare Snake. 32 A pair of Snails (Helix xAspersa & Hermaphrodites), inter nuptias. 33 A small Snake. 34 A beautiful and most extraordinary spine, forming the anterior ray of the anal fin of the Ecan Bonna, furnished with two distinct natural and moveable articulations. A fish from the Southern Pacific ocean. 35 The larva of the Cossus Antiquorum. Insect. 36 A Julus. 37 A double Apple. 38 A portion of periosteum from one of the bones of the Mammoth, lying at Woodchester near Stroud, Gloucestershire j with the document. 39 The head of the Sepia officinalis. 40 A Nereis. 41 An Astacus vulgaris. 42 A scarce Squilla. 43 The larva of a large and scarce Papilio. 44 A small Scolopendra. 45 A beautifully injected Oyster. 46 The glans penis of a large marine Turtle, inflated, 47 The Senectus of a Snake (sloughed cuticle). 48 A very fine and scarce Serpent. 49 A beautiful specimen of a rare Water-snake, the Pelamis bicolor. 50 Blennius viviparus. Fish. 51 A young Crocodile, (Crocodilus vulgaris). 52 A very scarce Cuttle-fish (Loligo sagitta). 53 A beautiful specimen of a young Cayman (Alligator Sclerops). 54 A fine example of a very large double-nosed Chameleon (Chameleon dicorhynos). 55 A splendid specimen of the Scilla Mantis (Prawn).102 NINETEENTH DAY’S SALE [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ LOT. 56 A beautiful example of the Eunice giganteua. A Mollusca. 57 A young Angel-fish (Squatina spinosa). 58 A Python Apollinis. Snake. Skin in spirits, 59 A Coluber constrictor. 60 A Coluber viridissimus. 61 A Coluber Constrictor. Compartment IE. Subjects of Natural History, continued. 1 A magnificent specimen of a Syren lacertina: inspirits. 2 A fine example of a young Gavial, (Leptorynchus biscutatus). Presented by — Morgan, Esq.: in spirits. 3 A large Lamprey (Petrorayzon marinus) : in spirits. 4 The Greater Weaver; Trachinus lineatus: a stuffed specimen of this fish. 5 A very rare species of Cayman (Alligator hymenopleurus, Brookes ;—Alligator superciliosus, Cwwm. N.B. The whole side of the animal, from the articu- lation of the lower jaw to that of the thigh, is devoid of scuti for the space of one inch in the specimen, which is not over-stuffed ; presumed to be for the purpose of enabling this voracious Emydo-saurian reptile to ac- commodate itself to the quantity of food he may have the means or incli- nation to devour. 6 The variegated Wrasse (male) (Labrus variegatus). 7 Ditto, the female. This fine pair of fishes are preserved in spirits. 8 The Roman Gymnothorax (Gymnothorax Helena): an anguiliform fish, 9 The skin of a very large Coluber : in spirits. r 10 A transverse section of a human penis: dried and immersed in oil of turpentine ^11 Many specimens of larvae of Frogs. Tadpoles. 1.12 An individual ditto, having almost perfected its metamorphosis. rl3 A beautiful example of the moniliform ova of a Toad. 14 Small larvae of ditto, branchiated. ^ 15 A perfect animal. ^16 Very minute larvae of ditto. y 17 Ova. C 18 A small bipedal ditto. ri9 Ova of the Frog at their incipient change. J 20 Ditto, become minute branchiated larvae. 1.21 Many just commencing their metamorphosis from ova. S22 A small tetrapedal larva. 23 A small branchiated larvae of the Frog. N.B. The preceding very interest- ing specimens of batrachan amphibia were presented by Dr. Hooper. 24 A specimen of a very large Spider, f 25 A fine example of the Cimex Braziliensis. 26 Ova of a Sepia. [_27 A large bipedal larva of a Frog. r28 Ditto, tetrapedal. J 29 A Platydactylus ocellatus. Lizard. LSO Taeniae. ^31 A Scarus ferruginous; in spirits. Fish. J 32 A fish: in spirits. j 33 A very large Hydatid (Cysticercus): from a galactophorus reservoir in the L teat of a cow. 34 A Solen siliqua. Razor-shell. 35 A Stromateus fiatola. Fish. .36 Vomer Brownii; the filamentous dorsal and ventral fins are particularly beautiful. 37 The immense larva of a 38 Zeus aner. Fish.lOS MNETKfc:N rH:TJAY^ Sin^ [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser^ Erpetology, Ichthyology, and Entomology. LOT 39 An Ostracion cubicus. 40 A large Hydatid (Cysticercus.) 41 An unique two-horned Chameleon', anduntil lately a nondescript, but recently described by Mr. Gray in his Spicilegia Zoologica under the flattering synonym of Chameleon Brookesii. 42 A young Flying-fish. 43 A Tiliqua aurata, with a re-produced tail. Reptile. 44 A specimen of a portion of fossil tusk of a Mammoth. 45 A young Whiting (Gadus Merlangus). 46 A bearded Ophidium (Ophidium barbatum) 47 A scarce Lacerta. 48 A beautiful specimen of a Salamander from Bohemia (Salamandra terrestris) Presented by Dr. Buckland. 49 The Scarus ferrugineus. 50 The nidus and embryons of an animal. 51 A small Scorpion. 52 Very rare larvae eliminated from the human intestines. 53 The larva of a large Papilio. 54 A preparation bottle. 55 Ditto. 56 A large Phalangium nonscriptum, from Savanna. 57 A fine specimen of a Mygale. Spider. “58 A Taenia, from a Squirrel. 59 Ascarides vermiculares. N. B. Perhaps the best remedy for these animal- culae is a small quantity of powdered aloes mixed with lime water injected per anum. “60 A preparation of a minutely injected Snail (Helix hortensis) deprived of its shell. .61 A Soldier Crab (Pagurus Bernardus.) ‘62 A Mole Cricket replete with ova (Gryllotalpa vulgaris); in spirits. Vide Dr. Kidd’s learned and elaborate paper on this insect in the Philosophical Transactions, 1829. .63 A beautiful specimen of moniliform Ova. 64 The gravid uterus of a Mouse. 65 A foetal Sea-turtle (Chelonia Midas.) 66 A young Flying-fish. 67 A Gryllus. .68 A specimen of a large Scorpion (Scorpio Europacus.) 69 A Gecko Mauritanica. . 70 A small Coluber. ‘71 A tingeing Rainette (Hyla tinctoria). Vide a singular account of this animal in Cuvier. -72 A Pholas dactylus. 73 Doubtful. 74 A small Snake. *75 A Shrimp (Cragon major). 76 The head of a Widgeon (Fistulator Penelope.) 77 Part of the bone of a Cuttle-fish decomposed. 78 An Hydatid. .79 A beautiful specimen of the seed-vessel of the Datura stramoniu m. SO^The Thorny Diodon (Diodon aculeatus); dried and varnished. 81 An Aphrodita (Sea-mouse.) 82 The indented silver-striped Julus(Julus denticulatus). 83 A Platyurus australis. Lizard. Presented by Rheid, Esq. 84 A beautifulspecimen of a minutely injected pregnant Frog. 85 A Zonurus cordylus. Lizard. 86 A handsome Snake. 87 A foetal Phalangin (Manis longicau^i^^^104 NINETEENTH DAY^S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser^ I.OT 88 A small Coluber. 89 Skeletons of two Gar-fish (Bellone chlorosteus). 90 A large.dried Rattle-snake (Crotalus horridus). N.B, The poisonous fangs of this reptile are particularly obvious. 91 Three Asterias of different species. 92 An uncommonly fine Gorgon (Caput Medusae.) 93 A vertebra, said to be taken from the Craken, with a drawing and document. Presented by Mr. Bullock. 94* An uncommon fine specimen of a large Bull frog (Rana taurina.) 95 A Salmon-trout (Salmo trutta): stuffed, dried, and varnished. 96 The skin of an Echidna (Echidna spinosa). The animal was sent alive from New Holland to Mr. Brookes by the very Rev. Archdeacon Scott; but did not survive the voyage. Its interesting skeleton will be hereafter sold. 97 A Rainette of considerable magnitude (Hyla grandis). TWENTIETH DAY’S SALE FRIDAat Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] CoMPA RTMENT QL. Natural History, continued;—viz. Reptilia, Amphibia, Fishes, Mollusca, and Entozoa, in spirits. LOT 1 Specimen of a beautiful exotic Snake. 2 Ditto of a Coluber. 3 A specimen of an abdominal spinous fish : dried. '4* An interesting example of a well-stuffed grinning File-fish (Balistes ringens). 5 A handsome specimen of that extremely rare animal from Mexico, the Chi- rotes bimanum. Presented by William Bullock, Esq. 6 An Axolotl. Presented by William Bullock, Esq. This extraordinary branchiated species of amphibia is dissected particularly for the purpose of showing the absence of thoracic lungs. Phillhydrus pisciformis {Brookes). Vide Sir Everard Home’s Paper on this animal in the Phil, Trans. A very rare Snake (Dryinus nasutus). Another dissected Axolotl. Presented by W. Bullock, Esq A Flying-fish. A Coluber viridissimus. Ditto. i 12 A beautiful example of a dried flying Lizard (Draco volans). 13 An exotic Snake. 14 A Scolopendra, and two Mygales (hirsute Spiders). 15 Leptophis Indicus. A Snake. 16 A handsome specimen of an exotic Snake. 17 A Coluber viridissimus. 7 8 9 10 »11 18 Another Flying Lizard, the Draco lineatus. A stuffed specimen of a Char (Salmo alpinus). A very handsome exotic Snake. Ditto. Ditto. An Aphrodita. A Snake. 25 The head and tail of that most extraordinary monocerous fish the Sea- unicorn (Naseus unicornis). N.B. The spine just above the attachment of the tail, both above and below, is furnished with very sharp razor- shaped processes. .LOT 26 ■27 28 29 SO 1 { rSi 32 33 34 35 36 f37 J 38 139 ■40 41 L42 43 44 45 f46 ^47 l48 r 49 1 i 50 L51 52 r53 154 J55 1 56 57 58 TWENTIETH DAY^S SALE. 105 [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] ENTOZOA. Parasitical Animals, Worms, &c. Many Worms (Strongyli vesicales) voided per urethramby a female patient of Mr. Burnet’s in St. John-street. N.B. It is said that in the course of several years she voided an immenvse number at intervals, A Hydatid (Cysticercus globosus). A specimen of a small portion of a fossil tusk of a Narwal. Mal-formation of an Egg. A Hydatid. Ascarides vermiculares. Nidus and Ova of an insect. Ova. Ascarides. Mucus voided per anura, supposed to be the nidi of worms. Larvae of anomalous animalculae, voided per anum. Presented by Copland Hutchinson, Esq. A Hydatid. Worms in the lungs of a Frog. Larvae of anomalous animalculae, desribced by Dr. Chichester in the Bath Literary Transactions. Doubtful. Interesting specimens of Tricocephalae dispares. N.B. These Entozoa were found by Mr. Brookes in a living state upon the caecum, and others within the same intestine, which was perforated as it were by a number of pin- holes, through which the former had escaped. A considerable portion of the internal coat of the intestine was eroded. Query,—May not many cases of supposed dysentery be produced by the destructive ravages of these animals ? A Taenia Muris. Several dried animalculae found on the back of the Whale (Pycnogonum Ba- laenarum), A beautiful drawing, front and back view of a Taenia Muris. Taeniae, from the stomach of the Greenland Dove (Grylla scapularis). Three large Pycnogona Balaenarura. Several Strongyli Vulturides. Strongyli, from the stomach of a Corvorant (Phalacrocorax carbo). A remarkable example of a Hydatid, found in the diploe of the os frontale (Cysticercus cancellorum). Presented by Mr, Keats, from whose patient, a young woman in St. George’s Hospital^ this animal was obtained. Two Ascarides lumbricoides. Hytadids from a human liver (Cysticerci globosi). An uncommonly fine specimen of an enormous Worm (Strongylus Gigas), found in the kidney of a patient of the late Thomas Sheldon, Esq. Vide Cuvier. Several Hydatids. Ditto, one large and beautiful specimen, A multitude of Worms, voided per anum by a Tiger (Taeniae Tigridis). A fine specimen of a larva, found in a living state in one of the frontal sinuses of a Sheep, in which it is retained (CEstrus Ovis). Vide the interesting ac- count of Bracy Clark, Esq. on this subject in the Linn. Trans. A very interesting specimen of a Tesnia from the human subject; injected (Taenia osculis marginalibus. Hooper.) A singular example of a multitude of Bots (GEstrus Eqiii) adhering to the villous coat of the stomach. Vide Clark. Pw TWENTIETH DAY’S SALE. [^Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 59 A very fine Taenia osculis superficialibus. Hooper. This individual is one of four and a half, which were voided at an alvine evacuation, in consequence of the operation of Madame Nieufer's remedy. Obtained through the polite- ness of — Howard, Esq. R. N. 60 A Guinea Worm (Filaria Medinensis) 3 extracted from the leg (in London), and presented by — Ireland, Esq. 61 An inextricable group of large intestinal Worms (Strongyli intestinales). 62 A beautiful specimen of a congeries of Hytadids from the human uterus (Cys- ticerci uterini.) 63 Ditto, blended with a considerable portion of coagulable lymph, heretofore called decidua. 64 Ascarides vermiculares. 65 A Tsenia osculis marginalibus, that measured immediately after being voided seventeen yards in length. Presented by — Allison, Esq. 66 Another splendid congeries of Cysticerci uterini. 67 A handsome specimen of Tsenia osculis marginalibus. 68 Ditto, having all the marginal and transverse vessels injected with mercury, supposed to constitute the intestinal canal, and the middlemost arborescent vessels, presumed to be the organs of reproduction, injected in like manner, 69 A considerable specimen of Cysticerci uterini, with a great quantity of coa- gulable lymph. ' 70 A beautiful example of a Hydatid, from the epiploon of a Sheep (Cysticercus , omentalis). ‘ 71 Ditto, contained in its cyst, forming a pair of interesting subjects. 72 A choice specimen of a large and beautiful stuffed fish (Herophontis Capensis). 73 A very handsome skeleton of a Pagrus (Pagrus argenteus). Fish. 74 A fine specimen of a Saury (Scombresoces Camperius). Fish. 75 Ditto of the Piper-fish (Syngnathus typhle). Presented by Robt. Dymond, Esq. 76 Ditto of a Taenia osculis marginalibus. 77 Ditto, of a foetal sharp-headed finned Cachalot (Physeterus microps): stuffed. 78 A dried specimen of a Gadus Pollachius. Fish ; found at Melville Island. Presented by Capt. Sabine, with the authentic document. 79 A very large handsome exotic Snake. Compartment E. I. SURBASE. Comparative Crania, chiefly exotic, in Bottles. 1 A fine cranium of a Frigate-bird (Tachypetes Aquila.) Presented by — Cope- land, Esq. 2 A section of a minutely injected head of a young Goat, showing the highly vas- cular membrane which secretes the horn and lines its osseous cone 5 af- fording also a beautiful view of the membrana Schneideriana. 3 The cranium of an Ornithorhynchus, exhibiting a beautiful view of its four large dentes molares. 4 A preparation bottle. 5 A cranium of that rare bird, the African crow (Corvus albicollis). 6 Ditto of the Rook (Corvus frugilegus). 7 The head of the Tufted Pochard Duck (Fuligula cristata). 8 Ditto of a Gar-fish (Belloiie chlorosteus j. 9 Ditto of a large-crested Greebe (Podiceps cristatus). 10 The lower jaw of the Ornithorhynchus, showing the two molar teeth. 11 The cranium of a Banana-eater (Musophaga violacea). Bird. 12 The jaws and teeth of an old Ratel (Gulo mellivorus). Quadruped. 13 The cranium of a young Dog-headed Dasyurns (Peracyon Harrisii, Brookes),TWENTIETH DAY’S SALE. 107 [Duty to he j)aid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 14 The cranium of a Large Flying Opossum (Petaurus macrourus). 15 The cranium and anterior extremity of the American Flying Squirrel (Sciuropterus volucella), the latter exhibiting the axillary bone support- ing thevolitant membrane. 16 The cranium of the Smaller Flying Opossum (Petaurus Taguanoides). 17 Ditto of the Ground Squirrel (Tamias striatus). 18 The cranium of the King-fisher (Alcedo ispida). 19 Ditto of the Philander Opossum (Didelphis Cayopollin). ^0 Ditto of the Indian Mangoust (Ichneumon, Herpestes mungos). Ditto of the Large Virginian Squirrel (Sciurus Virginianus^ 22 Ditto of a Fetid Shrew (Sorex araneiis). 23 The Ossa coccygis of a large Bustard (Otis sacculosa). ZOOTOMICAL ROOM, appertaining to the Gallery. Skeletons and detached Bones. 1 Detached bones of a large Horse, comprehending nearly the whole. 2 Ditto of the Mare. 3 The two anterior extremities articulated, wanting the feet; and an os femoris of a Rhinoceros. 4 A basket containing numerous bones of various animals, among which are some Rhinoceros bones. 5 A box containing sundry human bones, chiefly cylindrical. 6 Ditto. 7 Ditto. 8 Ditto. 9 Ditto. 10 Ditto. 11 The skeleton of a young Bear (Ursus Arctos) in a vertical position; well ar- ticulated, 12 Ditto of an exotic Sheep, in its ordinary position. 13 A noble skeleton of a very large Lion : the bones are well articulated and of a beautiful white color. 14 The skeleton of a Rufous Coafi (Nasua rufa). 15 A handsome skeleton of the Virginian Opossum (Didelphis Virginiana) sus- pended by its prehensile tail. 16 Ditto of a Ferret (Putorius Furo). 17 Ditto of a Kitten. 18 Ditto of a Patagonian Rabbit (Lepus giganteus). 19 Ditto of a young brown Paca (Coelogenus spadiceus) : in a glass case. 20 Ditto of the Meadow Campagnol (Arvicola arvalis) : in a glass case. 21 An interesting skeleton of the Bonnet Chiniois (Macacus Simius). Baboon. 22 An uncommonly fine skeleton of a large male Ornithorhynchus paradoxus (buccatus, Brookes). Presented by Sir Everard Home, Bart. 23 Ditto, in a glass case. 24 A highly interesting skeleton of that rare edentulous Australian quadruped , the Echidna spinosa. N.B. The skin, Lot 96 Compartment M. ap- pertains to the same animal. It is to be remarked that these Austra- lian animals are furnished Mothossa marsupialia, although they have not an abdominal pouch : the males are likewise plectrophanous, i. e. endowed with strong, curved, acute, and tubular spurs, for the purpose of retaining the females securely in coitu.TWENTY-FIRST DAY’S SALE. MONDAY, at Half-past Six precisely, [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] LOT 25 A beautiful skeleton about 5 feet in length of the narrovv-nosed Crocodile (Crocodilus tenuirostris). Presented by — Bravo, Esq. 26 Ditto of a Cayman (Alligator Sclerops) about 2 feet in length : in a glass case. 27 Ditto about 4 feet in length, without a case. N.B. These Emydo-Saurian animals are endowed with abdominal sterna and ribs, in addition to those of the thorax, and processes analogous to ossa marsupialia. 28 A handsome cranium of a young Nilotic Crocodile. 29 The skeleton of an edible Iguana (Iguana delicatissima). 30 A very large and superb skeleton of the Iguana tuberculata. 31 A very handsome skeleton of a Java Safeguard (Uaranus Javanensis). 32 Ditto of an Amboyna Lizard (Lacerta Amboynensis). 33 A skeleton of a large Lizard. 34 A handsome skeleton of a Chameleon (Chameleo Africanus) : under a glass shade. 35 Ditto of a green Flying Lizard (Draco viridis). 36 Ditto of the Lacerta Tiligugu, (Sardinian Lizard) : in a bottle. 37 Ditto of a Slow-worm (Anguis fragilis): in a bottle. 38 Ditto of a common Snake (Natrix vulgaris), and of an indigenous Viper (Pelias Berus) : in a glass case, 39 A magnificent skeleton of the Boa Constrictor (Python Apollinis). 40 Ditto of the Hooded Serpent (Snake of incantation, the Na'ia Magorum). BIRDS. 41 An interesting skeleton of a large Albatross (Diomeda exulans). 42 Ditto of the Cape Sagittary (Gypogeranus Serpentarius). 43 Ditto of a large Ossifrage Eagle (Haliaetus pygargus). 44 Ditto of a Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). 45 Ditto of a Marail Quan (Penelope Marail). Preserved with its trachea bis- torta. 46 Ditto of the Poland fowl (Gallus cristatus). Male. 47 Ditto of the Dorking fowl (Gallus pentadactylus). 48 Ditto of the common Heron (Ardea cinerea). 49 Ditto. 50 Ditto. 51 A most interesting skeleton of double foetal Lambs conjoined by their thoraces, having eight legs ; at the full period of gestation. 52 The shell of an immense Tortoise (Testudo Indica), covered by its cuticle. 53 Dittoofa smaller size, devoid of cuticle. 54 The skeleton of the Field Bustarnelle (Tetrax campestris). 55 Ditto of the Cape Penguin (Spheniscus demersus) : imperfect. 56 An adult human skeleton. Female. ORNITHOTOMICAL ROOM. 1 A large Emu (Dromiceius major). 2 Ditto. (Dromiceius minor). 3 The American Rhea (Ostrich, Rhea tridactyla). 4 The Stanley Crane (Anthropoides Stanleyanus). 4* An American Horned Screamer (Kamichi Palamedea cornuta). 5 A black Stork (Pelargus niger). 6 A Cape Penguin (Spheniscus demersus).' TWENTY-FIRST DAY’S SALE. 109 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser LOT 7 A golden crested Penguin (Chrysocoma Saltator). 8 A pair of Eider Ducks (Samoteria mollissima), male and female. 9 A pair of Australian lobated Stiff-tails (Riziura lobata). 10 A pair of Northern Loons (Colymbus glacialis). 11 Sabine’s Gull (Xema Sabinea). 12 The Northern Long-tail (Harelda glacialis). 13 A Surinam Plotoides (Plotoides Surinamensis). 14 A Violet Banana Eater (Musophaga violacea). 15 A White-bellied Malcoha (Phenicophaus nigrogularis). 16 A Purple Piroll (male) Ptilonorrhynchus Macleayi). 17 A Spur-winged Plover (Charadrius plectropterus). 18 A Senegal Plover (Charadrius pileatus). , 19 A Yellow-bellied Trogon (Trogon Curucui). I ; 20 Maton’s Australian Parrakeet (Platycercus Matoni). 121 A Philedon Teariopsis. 22 The crested Oxyrinque (Oxyrhyncus cristatiis). 23 A Rufous Ophrie (Opetiorrhynchus rufas). 24 A Blue-bellied Australian Parrakeet (Tricoglossus Haematodus). 25 A Bearded Sittine (Zenops genibarbis). :| 26 A Guiana Grimpart (Anabates Guianensis). 'f 27 A swallow-billed Progne (Procnias hirundinaceus). [ij 28 II !S| SO 31 32 |[f 33 i' 34 I MAMMALIA. I 35 A Capybara (Hydrochaerus Capybara). i 36 A Three-toed Ant-eater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla). 37 A Dog-headed Dasyurus (Peracyon Harrisii). 38 A Long-tailed Porcupine (Hystrix macroura). 39 A Lemurine Phalanger (Phalangista lemurina), 40 Ditto. 41 42 SALOON.—CASE F. 1 A very large stuffed Nilotic Crocodile. CASE G. 1 The skeleton of a common Rabbit (Lepus cuniculus). 2 The diseased foot of a Horse, very remarkable ; with the history. 3 Ditto* 4 Ditto. 5 A section of a beautifully injected foot. N.B. The coffin bone is apparently crushed. 6 The head of a Mare : the frontal sinuses are laid open, showing the seat of glanders. 7 A section of the foot of a Horse. 8 A most singularly diseased Horse’s foot, injected ; with an authentic document. 9 The lesser pastern bone diseased.110 TWENTY-FIRST DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser. SALOON—CASE. LOT 10 A very handsome preparation of the lower part of the leg and foot of a Horse, having the arteries and veins injected ; beautifully exhibiting the theca for the tendons of the flexor sublimis perforatus and profundus perforans. 11 A diseased foot of a Horse, with part of the leg and some tendons preserved. 12 Ditto. 13 Ditto. 14? Ditto ; with a document. 15 Ditto, with an enormous wind-gall. 16 A beautiful specimen of a foot, devoid of disease ; showing the tendons and band of the foot, particularly described by Bracy Clark, Esq. 17 A part of the cranium of a Horse, with the atlas and vertebra dentata; show- ing the theca vertebrarum, the connecting ligaments of these bones, and the inter-articular cartilages of the lower jaw. CASE H. Erpetology and Iclitholoi^y. Comparative skeletons, continued. 1 The skeleton of a very large Gallipago Tortoise (Testudo elephantopus). 2 A fine skeleton of a large Angel-fish (Squatina spinosa) : on a black board. 3 A cranium of a Turtle of great size. 4 Ditto, somewhat smaller. 5 The anterior flippers of a very large marine Turtle, articulated. 6 A handsome skeleton of a Scate (Raiabatis). 7 A splendid skeleton of a very large Puft* Adder (Vipera inflata): in a hand- some glass case. 8 Ditto of a Rattle-snake, much longer (Crotalus horridus) : also in a hand- some case covered with plate-glass. 9 A head of a marine Turtle; imperfect. 10 A handsome case, glazed in front and at the ends, nearly two feet square, containing four splendid skeletons of fishes : viz.—A Plaice (Platussa communis):—A common Cod (Gadusraorrhua):—A large Carp (Cypri- nus carpio):—and a Grey Gurnard (Trigla Gurnardus). N.B. All the beautiful and intricate ossa musculorum, so difficult to be retained, are preserved in these choice specimens, the fins of which are also admirably displayed. 11 A very large case, glazed with plate-glass, containing superb skeletons of the four following fishes:—viz.—A common Cod (Gadus morrhua):—An Angler of considerable magnitude (Lophius piscatorius). N.B. The pro- cesses attached to the upper part of the cranium, used by the animal as fish- ing-rods, lines, and baits are preserved; the thoracic fins, answering the pur- pose of feet in this fish, as well as the other fins, the opercula, and gill covering rays, with those of the tail, are beautifully displayed in these mag- nificent specimens:—A large Pike (Esox luscius).—And a Ray (Raia Batis). The ossa musculorum are all preserved in these splendid subjects. 12 The scapulae and anterior extremities of a very large Tortoise (Testudo areo- lata), articulated ; the pelvis and posterior extremities of the same reptile 13 Part of the spine of a Shark: and the pelvis of a marine Turtle. 14 Ditto (the pelvis). Is it not as probable that similar specimens formed the models ofantient Cathedrae or Fauteuils, as that the Carapace of the same animal is the origin of the lyre of Apollo ? 15 The shell of a Tortoise, devoid of cuticle.—A dried double air-bladder of a fish. 16 An entire Tortoise (Testudo tessellata), the arterial system is injected: the under shell (Plasteon) is divided and hinged.Ill TWENTY-FIRST DAYS SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser!] LOT 17 Ditto, with all the viscera injected and preserved. N.B. These form two beautiful and interesting specimens of the anatomy of the Tortoise. 18 The skeleton of a marine Turtle (Chelonia Midas), imperfect. 19 A splendid cranium, with all the teeth, many restored, of a very large Nilotic Crocodile (Crocodilus vulgaris). 20 Ditto, the lower jaw and teeth wanting. 21 Ditto (C. longirostris), perfect and very beautiful. 22 Ditto, smaller. 23 A choice specimen of an entire cranium, with all the teeth, of a Gangetic Gavial (Leptorhynchus Gangeticus). 24 Ditto of the inferior maxillary bone, nearly a yard in length, teeth wanting, of an enormous Emydo-Saurian animal (Leptorhynchus Gangeticus). 25 A tray, with the jaws of various fishes. 26 An interesting appearance produced by an injury to a portion of the Cara- pace (upper shell) of a Tortoise. A rib of ditto, and the jaw of a fish. 27 The skeleton of the Black Viper of St. Lucie (Trigonocephalus atrox): in a bottle. N.B. This individual was killed after biting a gentleman, who died half an hour subsequent to receiving the wound. TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. TUESDAY;, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] LOT 28 The cranium of a common Wolf-fish (Anarrhicas Lupus) : in a bottle. 29 Ditto of the Narrow-nosed Crocodile (Crocodilus longirostris). 30 A handsome skeleton of the large Laughing Toad (Bufo ridibundus). Pre- sented by Honoratus Thomas, Esq.: in a bottle. 31 A choice specimen of the entire cranium and teeth of a very large Snake (Python Apollinis) : in a bottle. 32 A handsome specimen of the cranium and teeth of the Baracouta fish. 33 A humorous skeleton of a Frog : in a bottle. 34 The cranium of a Tortoise (Testudo Grseca) : in a bottle. 35 A skeleton of a Frog : in a bottle. 36 A very handsome white skeleton of a large Jersey Toad (Bufo Cesarise). This animal was presented to Mr. Brookes in a living state by — Du Homme, Esq. : in a glass case. 37 A skeleton of a Jersey Lizard (Lacerta viridis): in a glass case. 38 Ditto of a common Frog (Rana temporaria): in a glass case. 39 Ditto of a Water-newt (Triton cristatus): in a glass case. 40 Another skeleton of a Frog : in a glass case. 41 A beautiful specimen of the cranium of the Bony Pike (Lepisosteus longiro- stris) : in a bottle. 42 A scale and gynglimoid spine of the singularly constructed articulation of the first dorsal fin in an undescribed File-fish (Balistes nonscriptus). 43 The jaws of a Wolf-fish (Anarrhicas lupus): in a bottle. 44 A beautiful cranuim of a Sea-angel (Squatina spinosa): in a bottle. 45 Ditto of a common Pike (Esox luscius) : in a bottle. 46 A fine specimen of the liead of that singular fish the Lepisosteus spatula. 47 A handsome preparation of a small Testudo Grseca; the viscera are well displayed.112 TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT 48 The shell of a Turtle (Testudo radiata). 49 Ditto, devoid of cuticle (Testudo tessellata). 50 An interesting skeleton of a Testudo Grseca: in a gilt case glazed. N.B. The Testudo Graeca has been said to be indigenous. 51 A stuffed specimen of the Chelonura serpentina. 52 A shell of an Emys concentrica. 53 Ditto, with the plastron (sternum) hinged naturally (Terrapena clausa). f54 A shell of an Emys punctata. [55 Various bones of a Tortoise. 56 A cranium of a small Cayman (Alligator Sclerops). 57 An uncommonly fine cranium, with the lower jaw, of the Sword-fish (Xiphias gladius). Presented by Professor Bonelli. 58 A shell of the Testudo carbonaria. FLOOR OF THE SALOON. A painted muscular statue of the human subject of the adult size. A cast in plaster. A handsome painted statue of the Venus de Medicis. A cast in plaster. A gigantic model of the arterial system of the human subject. Executed and presented by — Blackett, Esq. Surgeon U. N. An ancient and rude Sarcophagus, containing an Egyptian Mummy. A fine Mummy of a Caffre boy embalmed by Mr. Brookes about fifteen years ago ; in high preservation in a glazed case, highly interesting. TABLE OF THE SALOON. LOT 1 A cranium, including the lower jaw, from Peru, having a very irregular and horrific appearance, being extensively affected with osteitis. N.B. The lower jaw is of immense thickness, and the orbits much diminished : dug up from a cemetery at Lima and presented by — Lewis, Esq. (at that time Surgeon to H. M. S. Lion,) with the written document: under a glass shade. 2 The cranium of a young English Baron (in days of yore), dug up from a mound near Lewes in Sussex : on a stand and under a glass shade. Pre- sented by — Price, Esq. 3 The head of a Russian, dug up at Spitzbergen, and mummified by congela- tion; still characterized by its original nightcap. Brought home at ex- treme risk (from the superstition of the sailors), and presented by — Row- land, Esq. Assistant-Surgeon to oneof H. M. ships employed in the Arctic expedition: on a stand, and covered by a glass shade. 4 The cranium of an Egyptian mummy : in a glass globe. 5 A cranium, brought from the island of Madeira, singularly formed or diseased, of a monk of the Franciscan order, supposed to have been one of the earliest inhabitants. Presented by Dr. Gamble, with an authentic document: in a glass globe. 6 The head of a New Zealand warrior: on a stand, and under a glass shade. 7 An interesting preparation of the cranium of a young subject. The superior part is removed, exhibiting the circulus arteriosus Willisii, and a mul- titude of ramifications of the cerebral, basilary, and vertebral arteries; on a stand, and covered by a glass shade. 8 A dissection of the cancelli of the lower jaw, affording a view of the canales mentales; a canal on one side is seen through the interstices of the cancelli, and on the other it is altogether denuded. Also a lower jaw of a Turk, (as it was said to be): on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 9 A most extraordinary and very large calculus, from the urinary bladder of113 TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. \_Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.'] LOT a hog, consisting of triple phosphates. Presented by — Thompson, Esq. Surgeon R. N. 10 A splendid preparation of an injected human heart; all the vessels are pre- served of extreme length, with the receptaculum chyli, and the whole of the ductus thoracicus, including its termination ; also that of the lym- phatics, on the right side of the head and neck, thorax, and arm, which 'were injected with mercury, but are now scarcely visible: on a stand, covered by a glass shade. . 11 Ditto, still more splendid, with the pulmonary vessels; on a mahogany stand, and covered by a glass shade. 12 Ditto. 13 A most splendid corroded preparation of the heart and lungs of a young subject, in which the trachea, the ramifications of the bronchi and coronary arteries are beautifully seen, 14 A most extraordinary, perhaps unique, case of transposition of the adult human heart into the right side of the thorax, produced by an enormous vomica, occupying the whole of the left lung: from a subject about twenty-three years of age, a patient of Drs. Hooper and Ager. The body was opened by Mr. Brookes, who found upwards of two gallons of pus in the abscess, the cyst of which adhered very extensively to the ribs. The patient dated the origin of this tremendous disease from the period of only three weeks previous to his dissolution, which account was corroborated by his mother. 15 'A preparation, consisting of incarceration of the inferior portion of the in- testinum ileum; produced in consequence of a volvulus (twisting) of a very long diverticulum ilei, wdiich becoming inflamed from the morbid change, adhered to the caecum, leaving a space through v/hich several con- volutions of the ileum had passed, and thus became strangulated from the distention occasioned by accumulated flatus and liquid fleces: on a ma- hogany stand, and under a glass shade. 16 An uncommonly fine preparation of a corroded liver, in which four of its systems of vessels are beautifully preserved: viz. the vena porta hepatica, the vense cavse hepatic£s terminating in the vena cava abdominalis. The arteria hepatica, and pori biliarii forming the ductus hepaticus: on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 17 A splendid specimen of a corroded placenta: on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 18 A corroded preparation of a kidney : on a mahogany stand, and under a glass shade. 19 Ditto: ditto. 20 Ditto, having double sets of vessels, pelves, and ureters: under a glass shade. 21 A corroded spleen : under a glass shade. 22 The liver of a sheep, and biliary system, corroded : under a glass shade. 23 The ramifications of the pulmonary artery and bronchi, also from a sheep : under a glass shade. 24 A most superbly injected and accurately dissected arterial hand: under a glass shade. 25 Ditto, foot: in a bottle. 26 Beautiful specimens of minutely injected intestinum jejunum, laid open for the purpose of showing valvulae conniventes, under a glass shade. 27 An excellent preparation of the lower jaw, tongue, fauces, pharynx, larynx, and the three pair of salivary glands, which, witl: their ducts, are injected with mercury : under a glass shade. 28 The bones of an extra-uterine foetus, extracted per anum a long period after the full period of gestation. Presented by Sir A. Carlisle. 29 A glass case, containing sections of a number of the bones of the human subject, beautifully exhibiting cancelli and diploe. QTWENTY-iiECUiNJJ «ALE. " 114 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.^ LOT 30 A human liver, partially corroded, exhibiting a pervious vena umbilicalls ex- tending from the navel into that viscus, where it joined the cavic system, of which there are two other examples, before described. These are suf- ficient instances, occurring in the pursuits of one anatomist, to induce sur- geons, in operating for exomphalos, to divide the stricture in the direction of the linea alba downwards. SI A most ingenious and highly interesting philosophical apparatus, illustrative of the circulation of the blood; exhibiting the appearance of red particles distinctly, and in rapid motion ; formed of tortuous and variously convo- luted glass tubes; connected to it there are two reservoirs, that may be considered as the auricular and ventricular portions of the heart: contained in a glass case. PICTURE-ROOM, appertaining to the Gallery of the Saloon: replete with Anatomical Paintings in oil, framed; and Drawings, glazed. LOT 1 A suite of very fine oil paintings of the adult subject, 7 in number, copied from the large and splendid myological engravings of Albinus; exhibiting the various layers of muscles, stratum super stratum, in anterior, posterior, and lateral views; framed. 2 A splendid, accurate, and minute representation of all the arteries and veins of the human body, from a subject at the age of adolescence : framed. 3 An admirable painting in oil, by—Wheateley, Esq, R. A., of a bicipital human foetus born about half a century ago. The original is in Compartment V. of the Gallery—formerly described. 4 A series of four coloured drawings, exhibiting in front angiological and splanchnological views of the preceding remarkable human monstrosity, and posteriorly the extraordinary double spinal columns, their thecae and nervous contents, terminating at the sacrum. 5 Ditto of a double monster, human. 6 Ditto of a third species of human foetal malformation. 7 An oil painting, exhibiting in natural colours a lateral view of an injected Malay subject; the chief object of which is to demonstrate a second insertion of the musculus latissimus dorsi into the tendon of the pectoralis major, passing anteriorly to the brachial vessels and nerves, the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. 8 A portrait of a patient afflicted with an enormous scrotal hernia (oscheocele). it is an exact view of the individual, as he sat at Goutee, regaling himself with wine, &c. placed upon the tumor, and singing Ca Ira, just as the late Colonel Thornton and Joshua Briant, Esq. entered the cottage of this French paysan, in the south of France.—The second view is a re- presentation of the disease after he had been induced to exhibit himself in a state of nudity. Painted by Joshua Briant, Esq. from sketches made at the time. 9 An interesting painting, in different colours, of various views of single and double hearts, explanatory of the circulation of the blood, and of the oxygenized and carbonized portions of the system. 10 An admirable painting of the trunk of the adult subject; the vascular system of which is represented as injected of different colours, exemplifying the thoracic and all the abdominal viscera as they appear in situ naturali, on a first inspection of the subject. In this view the four ligaments connected at the navel, viz. the impervious vena umbilicalis, the two ligamenta um- bilicalia,and urachus, proceeding from the fundus vesicae, between the two last-mentioned ligaments; the anterior mediastinum and thymus gland are also obvious.115 TWENTY-SECOND DATS SALE. [Duty to he paid hy the Purchaser^] LOT 11 Ditto, exhibiting a more elaborate view of the thoracic and chylopoetic viscera j the latter in consequence of the removal of the thymus gland, an- terior mediastinum, pericardium, and omentum gastro-colicum. 12 A very accurate representation of a recent elaborate dissection of the whole of the inferior extremity, and half of the pelvis; the muscles are exhibited of their natural colour, the arteries and veins variously injected ; the su- perficial absorbents appear as though filled with mercury. Painted and presented by Matthew Wyatt, Esq. sculptor to the King. 13 Ditto of the superior extremity. PaintedandpresentedbyJoshuaBriant, Esq. 14 An interesting painting of a case of hernia ventralis, occurring in a nurse at the Westminster Hospital. This patient was somewhat disposed to obesity, and having been long afflicted with the disease, which formed a large tumor in the side, on stooping to garter her stocking, it burst through the integuments, by which several feet of intestine protruded and were ex- posed (Vide former Catalogue); and, singular to relate, notwithstanding the intestines became sphacelated, she lived upwards of a week in this dis- emboweled state. The post mortem investigation proved, that the abdomen was completely closed all around the protruded viscera. Painted and presented by Joshua Briant, Esq. 15 A fine representation of the cranium of a tiger. Painted and presented by Joshua Briant, Esq. 16 A view, in oil colours, taken from a child, previously to her undergoing the operation for an imperforated hymen; performed b}' Mr. Brookes. 17 A representation of a very extraordinary case of elephantiasis of the mem- brum virile. 18 A painting in oil, of the external sexual organs of a Hottentot Venus, copied from the parts, while in Mr. Brookes’s possession. Brought from the interior of Africa by Dr. Somerville, Physician to Chelsea Hospital. 19 A representation of a singular instance of a caudated human foetus: i. e.„ the inferior extremities are altogether wanting. The individual is in Com- partment S. of the Gallery, and formerly described. 20 A beautiful chalk drawing of a large acerebral foetus, contained in Com- partment S. of the Gallery : formerly described. Drawn and presented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 21 A very accurate and highly interesting chalk drawing of a dreadful case of aneurism of the thoracic aorta, having by its pressure occasioned the ab- sorption of many ribs, and formed an immense tumor posteriorly. The dried preparation is placed on a mahogany stand, covered by a glass shade, in Compartment CE of the Gallery. 22 Ditto, in a female. 23 A representation of a remarkable case of hydrorachitis, in an adult, which had burst. 24? A view of the dreadful effects produced by syphilis aflecting the head and face: taken from a patient in St. James’s Infirmary. 25 An accurate painting of a case of fungus haematodes growing on the back of the wrist; produced, as the patient informed Mr. Brookes, by an attempt to cure ganglion by percussion. Painted and presented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 26 A water-colour drawing, about 9 feet in length, of the fossil remains of the head and a portion of the spine of a very large Ichthyosaurus, in the possession of Captain Hawker: in a handsome gilt frame. 27 A suite of four very interesting chalk drawings, of the size of nature, of adult crania, affected with that very extraordinary and rare disease denominated Cauliflower excrescence, the long radii of which are inimitably delineated ; a posterior and two lateral views. 28 A pair of coloured drawings, illustrative of the branches of the thoracic aorta, the arteriae subclaviae, the carotides, and their ramifications, of the size of nature; from an injected and dissected dog. The object of these de- Q 2116 TWENTY-SECOND DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser,'] LOT iineations is, to exhibit the effect produced by the obliteration of a carotid artery by ligature in one painting, compared with the natural appearance of the vessels in the other. 29 A pair of crayon drawings of a pelvis; viz. an external and internal view, exhibiting specimens of a very extensive osteo-chondromatous affection. 30 An oil painting, framed and glazed, of a case of aneurism of the subclavian artery, in an adult female : from life. 31 Ditto, of varicose aneurism. f 32 A water-coloured drawing of the head and thorax of a girl, who had the mis- I fortune to have her left superior extremity (except the clavicle) entirely torn off* by the apparatus of a callendermill, in consequence of attempting j to regain her shuttlecock she had lost amidst the machinery; one j of the ropes of wliich entwining itself around her arm, suddenly and I forcibly severed it from her body. The patient, being immediately taken to the Middlesex Hospital, fell under the care of the late Dr. Clough, by whose sagacious and humane treatment she entirely recovered. This draw- ing, which was made and presented to Mr. Brookes by Dr. Clough, repre- sents the wound a few weeks previous to its entire cicatrization. 33 A highly interesting anterior and a posterior view of the extremity above alluded to; exhibiting, of the natural size, the lacerated appearance it presented immediately after the accident. 34 A drawing of a very extraordinary species of human monstrosity; injected. 35 A lupia; “ Extuberatio subter cutem mobilis, mollis, non dolens” : Cullen. Situated on the patella; very large : a chalk drawing. 36 A beautiful view of the arteries and veins of the adult human head and neck ; representing lot 58, glass case of the Saloon, formerly described. 37 Ditto; a view of an arterious and venous preparation of the head and neck of a negro, the original of which is in glass case C. of the Saloon, lot 53. In this drawing, there is an interesting example of a large anastomosis of the internal and external jugular veins of the left side. 38 A handsome drawing of the right superior extremity, injected, and represent- ing the beautiful inosculation between the ramus profundus minor and ramus anastomoticus very much enlarged, in consequence of the operation for aneurism having been performed twelve years previously, by William Lynn, Esq: Vide the preparation, lot , Glass case C. Drawn and pre- sented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 39 An oil painting of a horrible case of double hare-lip and fissured palate in a male child, on whom Mr. Brookes operated about twenty years ago. Patient now presents scarcely a vestige of deformity. 40 A pair of minutely injected preparations, highly interesting to the zoologist and obstetrician; consisting of a. beautiful display of carunculae of the gravid uterus, and the corresponding cotyledones of the placenta of a sheep. Dried, varnished, framed and glazed. 41 A handsome display of the lacteals of a Turtle on the mesentery and intestine, arranged in a circular form ; having also the arteries and veins injected of different colours, and secured in elegant glass frames. 42 Ditto. 43 A correct drawing of a case of hydrocephalus. The head is enormously enlarged. 44 Ditto, exhibiting the entire subject: drawn by — Simpson, Esq. 45 A representation of an arterial and venous superior extremity. 46 A preparation of the intestine and mesentery of a turtle; the blood-vessels and lacteals are variously and appropriately injected. 47 Ditto; a larger specimen. 48 A drawing of ditto. 49 A drawing of a singularly spotted Negro child. .50 Ditto of an African youth, formerly a patient of Mr. Bvookes’s. 51 A representation of an Albiness.TWENTY-SECOND DATS SALE. m [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser.'] { lot ^ , 1 . 52 A drawing of the entire human adult aorta, superior cava, vena? subclaviae and jugulares, coloured blue 3 with a beautiful view of the receptaculum chyli and the entire of the thoracic duct, having two terminations. 53 A representation of the adult human spine, very much incurvated. 54 An oil painting of the aorta abdominalis, a portion of the jejunum and mesen- tery, and of the lymphatics of the lower part of the trunk, the recep- taculum chyli, thoracic duct, and lacteals of the mesentery and intestine filled with chyle. N.B. This accurate representation of an injection and dissection, by the late Mr. John Sheldon, exhibits the vasa lactea, primi, secundi, et tertii generis. Presented by the late Mrs. Sheldon. 55 A painting of a case of cancer uteri. 56 A drawing of a very remarkable case of hernia diaphragmitis.N.B. This child lived only three hours 5 the left side of the thorax is nearly occupied with the intestines. 57 A painting of a nasal polypus recently extracted. 58 A view of hydatids in the liver. 59 A drawing of fracture of the ulna, upper part and head af the radius^ with the lower portion of the os brachii as discovered after amputation. 60 A very beautiful representation of the lymphatics of the arm, injected with mercury, and of a gland immediately above the internal condyle of the os brachii, with the lymphatics of the fore-arm ; the brachial artery is filled with ceraceous injection. 61 Ditto, of the inferior extremity. 62 A representation of lymphatics and their absorbent glands, filled with mer- cury. 63 A very entertaining view of a young Ourang Outang, in the act of coiling a rope on board a ship. Drawn by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. a passenger with the animal. 64 A representation of a Hindoo fanatic, who, with a view t© the expiation of some heinous offence, had formed the desperate resolution of rendering his arms useless by retaining them in an elevated position, with the fore- arms entwined over his head. A portrait of the individual, as he was con- strained to sit on a leopard’s skin covering his couch. Drawn and pre- sented by Arthur Henry Devis, Esq. 65 A natural and a microscopic view of a large hairy spider; and a beautiful representation of the lacteals on the mesentery and intestine of a turtle. 66 A splendid representation of one lung of a turtle, rich in the multitude of its lymphatics. f67 Splendid representations of the testes of a dog, injected, and replete with j 68 absorbents. N.B. The original preparations, made and retained by Mr. ■{ Sheldon, when assistant at the anatomical theatre in Windmill-street, I excited the jealousy and occasioned the separation of that gentleman from L Dr. W. Hunter. 69 A most interesting view of extensive fungi growing in the interior of the hu- man stomach. Painted in water colours, and presented by a lady of rank. 70 A diagram of the eye. f71 A view of the lymphatics of the gall-bladder and capsule of Glisson. I 72 Ditto of the intestine and mesentery of a turtle. ] 73 A representation of a horizontal section of a tooth, burnt and polished. L From the Siis sethiopicus. ■74 A drawing exhibiting the villous appearance of the intestine, with the me- sentery; the lacteals were filled with chyle. Taken from a dog whose me- sentery had been tied, about half an hour after he had been fed with milk. A view of the lacteals on the mesentery of a horse. A very fine drawing, by the late Mr. Edwards, of the pharynx of a boy who died of hydrophobia. A representation of very large lymphatics filled with ceraceous injection. A view of the cutis, rete Malpighianum and cuticle in the Ethiopian.118 TWENTY-THIRD DAY^S SALE. \Duty to he -paid by the Purchaser.'] lot T79 A representation of ulceration of an intestine. [80 Ditto of solitary lymphatics on the mesentery of a horse, f 81 A drawing of the head of an acerebral foetus. 1 82 Ditto of the testis of a dog, the lymphatics are injected with mercury ; the arteries painted red. L83 Ditto. TWENTY-THIRD DAY’S SALE, WEDNESDAY^, at Half-past Six precisely. [DUTY TO BE PAID BY THE PURCHASER.] LOT 84 A drawing of the human testis, the lymphaticsare represented as filled with mercury. 85 Ditto, beautiful, of the lymphatics of the stomach of a turtle, represented as filled with mercury, and the sanguiferous vessels with coloured injection. 86 Ditto, very splendid. 87 A drawing of an aneurism of the aorta abdominalis. 88 Ditto of a portion of intestine and mesentery of a horse, with a view of the absorbent and sanguiferous system appertaining thereto. 89 A plate of the appearance of the surface of the moon in her mean libration. Presented by Dr. Kitchener, under whose immediate inspection the draw- ing and engraving were executed. 90 A drawing of that enormous fossil animal the Megatherium. 91 A drawing of ulcerated lungs. 92 A drawing of superficial absorbents of ditto, forming the figures of tetragons, pentagons, hexagons, heptagons, &c. 93 A view of a most extraordinary case of scirrhus pylorus, depending into the duodenum, exhibiting also the termination of the ductus communis cho- ledochus. 94 A representation of a considerable enlargement of the three lobes of the prostate gland of the bladder very much thickened, and of four calculi which it contained. p95 A splendid representation of a part of the Fallopian tube, the fimbria, and a j portion of the ligamentum latum, exhibiting the enlargement of the saugui- ferous and lymphatic vessels appertaining to the human uterus at the I latter period of gestation. L96 Ditto. 97 A representation of a very successful injection of the sanguiferous and ab- sorbent vessels of the human testis and spermatic chord. r98 A drawing of a calvaria, representing anomalous ossa triqiietra. 99 Representations of lymphatics, injected with mercury, on the surfaces of two L portions of the liver. 100 An engraving of an Asiatic bicephalous child, from a drawing by A. II. Devis, Esq. The same plate likewise exhibits two other representations of the crania united by their vertices and delineated at a period of two years after birth ; the original crania may be seen in the collection of the Royal College of Surgeons.—Vide Sir Everard Home’s account of the above, in the Philosophical Transactions. The child died in consequence of a bite of the Cobra di capello, when two years old.119 TWENTY-THIRD BATS SALE. [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser. LOT 101 A representation of a case of large aneurism of the aorta abdominalis. 102 A drawing of the lacteals on a portion of the intestine and mesentery of a horse. 103 A. drawing of a diseased human bladder, prostate gland, and urethra, having sinuses and stricture. 104 A representation of an enormous hydatid. 105 An interesting drawing of a case of necrosis tibiae, nearly the whole of the original bone forms one sequestra. The original was in Compartment N. of the Gallery. 106 A representation of abscess of the liver. 107 A beautiful drawing of a molar tooth, cut, burnt, and polished, of an adult African elephant. 108 A preparation of the lacteals on the intestine and mesentery of a turtle. 109 A beautiful drawing of double termination of the thoracic duct, and of the venae subclaviae, jugulares internae, and vena cava thoracica. 10 Representations of absorbents, filled with mercury, on a portion of intestine of an animal. fill Ditto of lymphatics on the colon of a horse. [112 Ditto of lacteals on the mesentery and jejunum. 113 An interesting representation of the human gall-bladder, ductus cysticus, he- paticus, communis choledochus, and its termination in the duodenum j of a longitudinal section of the pancreas, exhibiting its duct, having two openings, one into the ductus communis choledochus, and the other into the duodenum: also of the vena splenica, and its junction with the sinus portae. 114 A representation of the pulmonary artery, the origin of the aorta, its trans- verse branch, valves, &c. ■ 115 A drawing of the lymphatics, injected with mercury, on the colon of the horse, 116 Ditto on the surface of the human liver. 117 Ditto of a successful injection of the lymphatics of the human kidney with mercury. The preparation is contained in Compartment O, Lot Gallery. 118 Ditto of the lymphatics of the human testis, the vas deferens and epididymis are also represented as filled with mercury. Ditto, very splendid from a preparation in which the tubuli seminiferi were injected. An interesting representation of a successful injection of the sanguiferous and lymphatic vessels of the Fallopian tube, fimbria, and ligamentum latum, of the human gravid uterus at an advanced period. A drawing of lymphatics richly distributed on a membrane. An elegant drawing of the superficial absorbents on the human lungs, forming circles, trigons, and various other figures, as noticed in a former drawing. A beautiful representation of the lacteals, injected with mercury, on the human intestinum jejunum and mesentery, terminating in a gland. A drawing of an injected spine from a young subject, showing the receptacu- lum chyli and ductus thoracicus terminating by two orifices at the angle form- ed between the right subclavian and internal jugular veins : extremely rare. Ditto of lymphatics on the surface of the human liver. Ditto of lacteals on the injected intestine and mesentery of a quadruped. An interesting view of a high degree of inflammation, and ulcerations of the colon in the human subject. A case of dysentery. Doubtful. A lateral view of an ameiva lemniscata. A drawing representing a high degree of inflammation and ulceration of the human jejunum. .A drawing of lymphatics injected wdth mercury (probably on the diaphragm). The pastern, lesser pastern, and coffin bone of a horse’s foot extensively dis- eased j admirably delineated. A drawing of a case of extreme moment, viz. of a high degree of inflamma- tion and extensive ulceration of the internal surface of the human caecum, 119 120 121 122 123 124 ri25 [126 127 ri28 ) 129 \ 130 131 132 132120 TWENTY-THIRD DAY’S SALE. [Duty to he paid hy the Purchaser.~\ LOT presumed to be the effect of the destructive ravages of the tricocephali dispares (Entozoa). 132 A representation of two adult human ribs fractured and anchylosed. 133 A drawing of the lymphatics of the spermatic chord and testis of the human subject: the vas deferens and epididymis are also represented injected with mercury. {134 Shows an inferior view of a lizard. 135 Is a drawing of another specimen of extensive inflammation and ulceration in the interior of a human intestine. 136 Represents a rich display of the lacteals filled with mercury of a part of the intestine of a skate; and the arteries and veins beautifully injected. 137 A drawing of a lymphatic, and some of the inguinal glands, injected with mercury. 138 A cast of the head of an adult patient afflicted with hydrocephalus, of an enormous size. He died of the disease about two years ago, in St. Tho- mas’s Hospital. DRAWING-ROOM and LIBRARY. A series of Anatomical Paintings in distemper, chiefly of a colossal size, representing Dissections of every part of the Human Body in appropriate colours. DRAWING-ROOM. LOT 1 A painting on canvass about 12 feet by eight, representing the heart, and its vessels both arterial and venous, the aorta and its branches ; also the two venae cavse, and their tributary branches. 2 A ditto, about 3 feet square, representing the thoracic viscera ; the termina- tion of the trachea and the ramifications of the bronchi satisfactorily deli- neated. 3 A continuation of that subject, being a view of the tongue, os hyoides, larynx, trachea and bronchi, on canvass 5 feet in length by 3 feet in breadth. N.B. The reverse side is a representation of the membrum virile of a gi- gantic size, its arteries and vena magna ipsius penis, a section of the pro - state gland, its ducts, the oculi gallinaginis, interior of the bladder and ter- minations of the ureters. 4 A part of the aorta, vena cava, the kidney, renal vessels, ureters, sperma- matic arteries, and bladder. 5 An interesting view of a section of the kidney, affording a clear display of the capsula renis, the cortical and tubulary portions, the tubuli uriniferi, pa- pillae and infundibula, with the pelvis and ureter. A companion to the preceding lot. 6 A painting of the uterus ; the mouth of which is seen in consequence of a longitudinal section of the vagina, the ligamenta rotunda and lata, and Fal- lopian tubes, their terminations at the fimbriae, one is represented at the moment of the venereal orgasm embracing an ovulum Graaffianum. The other fimbria is turned upwards, exhibiting a more extensive view of the ovarium as well as of the ovula Graaffiana. The extent of the canvass is about 5 feet by 3. 7 A ditto, about 6 feet square, presenting an outline of the liver, and exhi- biting the ramifications of the vena porta hepatica in the interior of that viscus. The vena porta abdominalis, the sinus portae with the splenic and other tributary veins: forming altogether a representation of extreme utility. 8 A view of a dissection of a gigantic hand, showing its muscles, tendons, thecae, arteries and nerves. On canvass about 6 feet in length by 3 in breadth.TWENTY-THIRD DAY’S SALE. 121 [Duty to be paid by the Purchaser.] LOT 9 A painting of the size of the last, representing a dissection and injection of the testis situated within the tunica vaginalis, with the distribution of the ramifications of the artery upon the organ, the vasa Pampineaformia and vas deferens. There is also on the same canvass another more elaborate dissec- tion of the spermatic organ, demonstrating the tubuli seminiferi. 10 A representation of the vertebral column, with a section of the sacrum and ossa coccygis ; and of other views referrible to osteogeny, viz. an os parie- tale of the fcetus, exhibiting the irradiated fibrous structure ; of a hand of ditto; and of a longitudinal section of the thigh and leg bones, showing the epiphyses and vascularity of the cancelli. 11 An exhibition of the encephalon and spinal chord, about twelve feet in length, displaying a dissection of the basis of the cerebrum and cerebellum, tuber annulare and medulla oblongata, the ramifications of the cerebral artery, the entrance of the vertebrales, the basilary artery and circulus arteriosus Willisii; the origins of the cerebral nerves, with the entire of the spinal chord; the axillary and lumbar plexuses, the dou- ble origin of all the spinal nerves, their ganglia, and conjugations. 12 A painting, about nine feet in length by six, representing a front view of all the nerves, on aground of the figure of the human subject. 13 Two views of the organ of vision on a very large scale, the one anterior, the other lateral; the former exhibits the globe of the eye, the four straight and two oblique muscles; the iris, pupil, and a part of the optic nerve. The latter represents five of the muscles surrounding the optic nerve, at their origin, with the exception of the obliquus inferior. The tendon of the obliquus superior is seen passing through its trochlea attached to the internal angular process of the os frontale, and from thence reflected to the globe of the eye, LIBRARY. 14 A representation of a young subject; showing the progress of ossification and the various epiphyses ; also a view of a parietal bone of early forma- tion. 15 A painting of the human cranium ; the sutures, harmonise, and foramina are well delineated in front, back, and lateral views. 16 A representation of the head, of gigantic size, the calvaria of which has been removed showing the contents of the cranium; on the right side of the falx major the dura mater is seen covering the subjacent hemisphere of the cerebrum, and on the other the convolutions of the cerebrum, their cortical substance, and intergyral spaces, also the diploe between the two tables of the bones. 17 Corresponds to the preceding in magnitude, and represents the vascular system, both arterial and venous, appertaining to the face and neck; affording also an excellent delineation of the pes anserinus as well as of the par vagum and nervus sympatheticus maximus. There is also a view of the larynx, trachea, thyroid gland, its isthmus, with the ramifications of the nerves and arteries appertaining thereto. 18 Is the representation of a trunk, of gigantic size, in which the thoracic and abdominal viscera are exhibited in situ naturali, 19 A representation of the heart and its vessels. The lacteals arising from the small intestines, their passage through the mesenteric glands, and ter- mination in the receptaculum chyli; the whole track of the thoracic duct, opening into the angle formed by the left subclavian and internal jugular veins. The oxygenized and carbonized parts of the system are distinguished from each other. A second view upon the same canvass exhibits the tongue, the os hyoides, the larynx, trachea, and its bifurcation into the bronchi; the oesophagus, stomach, duodenum, and part of the jejunum ; the spleen, and R122 TWENTY-THIRD DAY'S SALE. [Duty to he paid by the Purchaser^] LOT vasa brevia. The liver, and gall-bladder, the three biliary ducts, with the pancreas and its duct. 20 A representation of an adult spinal column, upwards of six feet in length. 21 Views of the pulmonic and corporeal portions of the heart, illustrative of the circulation of the blood, with the trachea and bronchi. 22 A representation of a myological dissection of the superior extremity, of a gigantic size, viz. on canvass about twelve feet in length. 23 Ditto of the leg and foot. 24 A representation of the adult human skeleton, upon a ground of the figure of the entire subject. 25 An elaborate and very interesting view of the aorta, vena cava abdominalis, the external and internal iliac vessels, the kidneys, renal vessels and ureters, of the vasa pampineaformia; the uterus, its vessels, os internum, tubas Fallopianas, their terminations surrounded by the fimbriae, the ovaria and ovula Gra- affiana; the bladder, ureters, and intestinum rectum. 62 A representation of a muscular dissection of the entire human subject, about twelve feet in stature; a front view executed with accuracy, and alto- gether a highly interesting portraiture. 27 A view of the adult figure about six feet in stature, on the surface of which all the absorbents have been traced after the accurate delineations of those vessels, by Mascagni. 28 A representation of the membrum virile, and its attachment to the rami is- chiorum, with longitudinal and transverse sections of its three bodies, viz. the' two corpora cavernosa, the corpus spongiosum urethrae; and vena magna ipsius penis. 29 A most interesting painting of a dissection of the low^erpart of the abdomen and upper part of the thighs, delineating the decussation of the tendinous fibres of the musculi obliqui descendentes, of the external abdominal rings, ' the spermatic chords and testes, the penis, the lymphatics of which are traced to the inguinal glands, and from thence beneath the crural arches. The lymphatics of the thigh, their entrance into the femoral glands, and from thence following the course of the preceding; the femoral artery, veins, &c. on cloth about 4 feet by 3. 30 A beautiful and highly interesting exposition of the anatomy of the human body represented in an injected and dissected adult subject, including the thoracic and abd(,'minal viscera : on canvass with rollers. By Mr. Gaultier. 31 Ditto, of the female. 32 Ditto similar to Lot 30. S3 Twenty anatomical drawings. 34 Twenty ditto of various diseases, many of them very rare. 35 A highly interesting representation of the stump of a recently amputated leg, published by — Alcock, Esq.; and a drawing of a leg showing a section through the soft parts ; in a frame, glazed. 36 Eleven engravings of various diseases. 37 Seven ditto. 38 Three outlines of a case of enormous hydrocephalus in a patient fifty years of age ; with the authentic document. 39 Five views of various ingenious surgical instruments, and one of the axis of vision. 40 Five engravings of the persistent and deciduous teeth, in situ naturali, and separated. 41 Ten engravings of the absorbents of every part of the body. 42 Four drawings of ditto. 43 Seventeen engravings of the anatomy of various parts of the body. 44 A representation of the Hottentot Venus; and of a dried human being, who was shut up in a vault and starved to death. The original is in the possession of the Zoological Society.