London : EDWARD ARNOLD, 37 Bedford Street, Strand. FIFTY BREAKFASTS. BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (“ Wyvern ”), (Jordon Rouge, Author of "Culinary Jottings," etc. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Speaker. ■1 An admirable collection of menus for the opening meal of the day. The majority of the dishes described in these pages are not merely dainty and appetizing, but are hardly of a kind seriously to tax either the resources of an ordinary kitchen or the aptitude of an ordinary cook. Colonel Herbert’s book is one of the best of its kind, for it is thoroughly practical from beginning to end.” Saturday Review. “ All who know the culinary works of ‘ Wyvern ’ are aware that they combine a remarkable conviction, and (on the whole) excellent taste with an exceptional practicalness and precision in detail. His ‘ Fifty Breakfasts will well sustain this reputation.” Pall Mall Gazette. tf Autolycus,” in a review of a column, says : 11 Distinctly it is a book to be read and studied.” The Hotel. The book strikes us as excellent from beginning to end, and should be in the hands of every cook in the kingdom.” Bristol Times. <• It is written by A. Kenney Herbert, whose pen name of ' Wyvern' is well known to all who like good victuals well cooked. He has given us a dainty book about dainty things. The book is well worth the price of as. 6d., at which it is published.” Manchester Guardian. “The craftsmanship and precision of his directions for the actual composi- tion of his dishes are beyond praise. The vagueness which is the curse ot cookery books entirely disappears here, and there is not only a distinct md - lion of quantities and times, but the minutest description, without verbiage, of processes, implements, and the like. It is really a very good book. Liverpool daily post. “A little book bv 'Wyvern,’ containing designs and instructions for the preparation of fifty breakfasts, the very perusal of which gives ones anaPPe‘l1 y Men, such as ' Wyvern,’ who try to give an artistic charm to English cookery deserve a peerage or Westminster Abbey.”