COMMON-SENSE COOKERY FOR ENGLISH HOUSEHOLDS. Based upon Modern English and Continental principles, with Twenty menus worked out in detail. BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (“Wvvern”), Cordon Rouge, Author of “ Culinary Jottings,” etc. Large Crown 8vo. Cloth, js. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Times. “A book which is sure to have a large circulation, since the author, the well-known ‘ Wyvern,’ has been for sometime generally accepted as perhaps the chief English authority on the art of cookery.” Morning Post. “ An elaborate treatise on the culinary art. The rules are laid down simply and clearly, and the recipes are given with such precision as to quantities that mistakes can scarcely occur if proper attention is paid to the instructions.” Manchester Guardian. ".We are very glad to see that Colonel Kenney Herbert has at last put his unrivalled combination of practical experience with theoretical enthusiasm and study at the service of readers in a more elaborate and comprehensive form than his ‘Jottings.’ His book is very comprehensive ; it embodies the most elaborate systems of French cookery as well as the simplest of English ; it shows an excellent conception of a dish, and a still better one of a dinner, and above all it is practical from end to end.” The Lady. “The genial author of / Culinary Jottings ' deserves well of the fair sex, and his own as well, for he is not content with being a culinary artist, but he possesses the happy knack of imparting his knowledge to others.” The World. These menus, twenty in number, adapted to the various seasons of the year, and worked out in detail, are extremely valuable, and are particularly de- serving of the attention of all who are in the habit of giving dinners which are intended to be really repasts and not simply culinary displays.” ' Bristol Times. " AN Excellent Cookery Book. This is really a literary production which may be read for itself alone. It is written by Colonel Kenney Herben whose signature of Wyvern ’ is well known to many, and who is a thorough di«de?Y°f the-rtn °f <r°.okln&- about whicb he has published many delightful XrS? every°ne Wh° — Manchester Courier. taken h?S alread-! Proved his fitness for the task he has under- aken in the present volume, and the work will confirm his remitsHnn ^ f the most lucid and practical writers upon the culinary art Yviike tr> i 06 °f and adepts the book will be found useful and suggesdve.” ° learnerS London: EDWARD ARNOLD, 37 Bedford Street, Strand.