BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR FOR THE NURSERY. In ordinary cases the only suitable food for young infants is milk. So soon, however, as some solid addition to the liquid food becomes desirable, there is nothing better for the purpose than BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR. Its principal functon is to supply heat. It also contributes to the formation of fat, so essential to life at all stages, but especially to the earlier. BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR FOR THE FAMILY TABLE. In the hands of an accomplished cook there is no known limit to the variety of delicate and palatable dishes which may be produced from BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR. It is equally susceptible of plain and simple treatment for ordinary domestic purposes, and one of its chief recommendations is the facility with which it may be prepared. Boiled with milk, and with or without the addition of sugar and flavouring, it may be ready for the table within fifteen minutes; or, poured into a mould and cooled, it becomes, in the course of an hour, a Blanc-mange, which, served with fresh or preserved fruit, will be acceptable at any meal. Add sultanas, raisins, marmalade, or jam of any kind, and in about the same time it is made into an excellent Baked Pudding. To which may be added:—Take care to boil with milk, when so required, for not less than eight minutes. BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR FOR THE SICK-ROOM. The properties of BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR are identical with those of arrowroot, and it is in every respect equal to the costliest qualities of that article. The uses of arrowroct in the sick room are not only matter of tradition, but of every-day experience, and there can be but few persons who are not acquainted with its uses as an important ally to medical treatment. BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR claims to serve the same purposes, with at least equal acceptance and at considerably less cost, and therefore offers the facility of freer use to a larger public. It has received from medical and scientific authorities the highest testimonials to its purity and serviceableness ; it is largely used in Hydropathic and other Institu- tions throughout the Kingdom, and its export to all foreign parts has long given it a world-wide reputation. NOTE.—Purchasers shouid insist on being supplied with BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR. Inferior kinds, asserting fictitious claims, are being offered for the sake of extra profit.