THE CULTURE OF VEGETABLES & FLOWERS FROM SEEDS AND ROOTS. By SUTTON & SONS, Reading GREATLY ENLARGED EDITION. BRIEF EXTRACTS FROM REVIEWS * Messrs. Sutton & Sons’ “Culture of Vegetables and Flowers” is at once a practical and scientific handbook to garden cultivation. An illustrated chapter on the pests of the garden greatly enhances the value of the work.’—Daily Telegraph. •Very complete, exquisitely printed upon good paper, well bound, and supplied with a capital index. Will be found most useful by the thousands of owners of villa gardens round London and our other big cities.’—Standard. ‘ Eminently of a practical kind. The amateur will find abundance of useful hints and directions regarding the culture of every sort of Vegetable, and all the best known Flowers which are found in English gardens.’—Daily News. ‘ A handsome octavo volume, and contains all that anyone can desire to know in con- nection with either the Vegetable or Flower garden.'—Morning Post. ‘ Many books profess to tell us all about gardening, but we know of none in which a year's work in Vegetable and Flower garden is more carefully and practically gone through than in the work before us.’—Graphic. ‘Their useful treatise on the management of the Flower and Kitchen gardens.'— Gardeners’ Chronicle. ‘ We commend this work strongly as one of the most practical that has recently been issued on the cultivation of the garden crops and popular flowers on which it treats.’— Journal of Horticulture. * The plan of the work is simple, and it is comprehensive. The essays on subsidiary subjects tend to promote that true theoretical knowledge which is the basis of all sound practice, and have been shaped with a view to entertain the learned while they inform the unlearned reader.'—Gardeners’ Magazine. ‘A very complete work, and, being well written by experienced and practical men, it satisfies the wants of the very large public who are interested in its subjects.’— Agricultural Gazette. ' A volume that will do credit to any library. Messrs. Sutton & Sons have hit upon the happy thought of publishing a book giving just sufficient instruction with respect to every one of the Vegetables and Flowers commonly cultivated to enable an amateur to be a successful gardener.’—Mark Lane Express. ‘A comprehensive work, and at the same time it treats in a popular and interesting manner of the first principles of gardening. Messrs. Sutton & Sons have done the garden-loving public great service in publishing this work, and we trust it will have what it richly deserves—a wide circulation.—Land and Water. ‘ This volume ought to be in the hands of everyone who handles a spade, or sows seed, or attends to the culture of roots. We heartily commend it to our readers.’— Live 8tock Journal. Publishers: HAMILTON, ADAMS, & CO., 32 Paternoster Row, London. Price 6s.