PERMANENT & TEMPORARY PASTURES, By MARTIN J. SUTTON, V Dedicat'd by special permission to H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES. Illustrated ■with. 23 beautiful Plates of Grasses, Clovers, &c., printed in natural Colours. The book also contains 46 Analyses of Grasses, Clovers, &c., prepared expressly for this work by Dr. J. Augustus Voelcker. Printed on superb paper and Handsomely bound in Cloth, Bevelled Boards, Price 21s. Popular Edition, 5s. Complete in every particular, except that the Grasses and Clovers are illustrated by superior wood engravings instead of coloured plates. From ff)C tSilUCS, Feb. 20, 1888 ‘Two years ago Mr. Martin J. Sutton issued his very able work on " Permanent and Temporary Pastures.' which was. by permission, dedicated to His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. Although really an edition de luxe, it met the want which had long been felt for a reallv good work on our best English grasses, and two editions were speedily sold. Messrs. Hamilton, Adams, & Co., of Paternoster Row. have just issued a popular edition at a quarter the price of the former editions. With the exception that the coloured plates are superseded by exquisite woodcuts it is brought out in the same admirable style as the former edition, while the information is equally complete and trustworthy.' From ^5f)C '®tmes, Dec. 26, 1887 ‘ The study of grasses is one to which increasing attention is now being paid. In . this country the handsome work by Mr. Martin J. Sutton is really the only modem one of any note that we possess.’ From 'gintes, Feb. 4,1886:- ‘ At this juncture more than ordinary interest attaches to a treatise just published by one of the highest authorities on this sublet—namelv. “Permanent and Temporary Pastures,” by Mr. Martin T. Sutton, of Reading. The book treats of those varieties of grasses and clovers on which Mr. Sutton has personally experimented. Nothing can exceed the fulness of detail given respecting the character, habit, history, culture, uses, and agricultural value of each of these numerous varieties, accompanied by chemical analyses specially prepared by Dr. Voelcker ; and the plates, occupying nearly half the volume, for accurate drawing and truthful artistic realisation of the tints and shades of stems, leaves, panicles, and blossoms of the plants in natural size, are probably as perfect specimens of colour-printing as ever embellished a botanical work. The fruits of Mr Sutton’s immense experience are embodied in sections devoted to every branch and phase of the subject.’ Publishers: HAMILTON, ADAMS, & CO., 32 Paternoster Row, London.