BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 67 intricate parts of this anatomy, until they are ratified by the work of finer and more delicate instruments, or shown to have an especial warrant in analogy, or, still more, some essential con- nection Avith living phenomena and function. The absence of all elucidation from the two last sources seems to me to be the defective point of M. Foville's work. To find no reference whatever to embi'yolog)'^ and comparative anatomy, is a great disappointment in these days,- when these two sources of information are in general so largely di-awn upon in similar works, and with such great profit to the inquny. The next works to be noticed are those by Drs. Stilling and Hannover, akeady cursorily mentioned, as containing the results obtained by these anatomists in their first attempts to make out the structure and relations of various parts of the nervous system, by help of the microscope. The account here given of them must necessarily be brief, as, ^^ithout the plates which illustrate them, the greater part of the details of which they are made up are absolutely unintelligible. The methods employed, and the objects in view, were somewhat diff"erent in the two cases. Dr. Stilling^s investigations were confined to the spinal cord and medulla oblongata,—already, however, a sufficiently wide field. His mode of examining these structures was this:—to cut from a variety of specimens, previously hardened by being steeped for some time in spirit, extremely thin slices, both lengthmse and crosswise;— to lay these without covering on a glass, and examine them wdth great care under a low power. With a keen razor, and with the skill soon acquired by practice. Dr. Stilling states that it is very easy to obtain slices so thin as to be perfectly translucent, showing, as they lie on the razor, the bright lustre of the blade beneath. In these slices the com-se of the fibres can, for the most part, be distinctly follow^ed, and their principal connections traced. The following are the chief points of physiological importance in the author's account of the structure of the cord, as far as this can be understood without his plates, which I may remark, by the way, are extremely beautiful:— His examination has led him to recognise in the cord three principal anatomical elements, namely, longitudinal fibres, trans- verse fibres, and certain corpuscles which, on account of their specific form and distribution, he names " spinal bodies."