~o IIETIIOSPECT OV ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, well-elaborated chyle in the thoracic duct and in the lacteals of the mesentery. All these questions are now in the way of being finally settled by the very ingenious experiments of Schwann, of which I shall have to give an account presently. The pancreatic fluid, M. Blondlot is inclined to regard as chiefly intended to lessen the acrimony of the bile by dilution; a view which, I need scarcely remark, is extremely uuphilosophical, and entirely without sanction in anything we know of the animal economy. The saliva, bile, and pancreatic juice being thus disposed of, the investigation reduced itself in the mind of the author, to an exact determination of the efiect of the gastric juice on the various aliments on which animals feed. A great number of interesting experiments were made with this object, for the detail of which the reader is referred to the work itself. It will be sufiicient here to state, that theii- general result was to lead M. Blondlot to divide the matters of which aliments are made up, into three separate categories, according to the natm-e of the modification they severally undergo. The fii'st comprises those substances which quit the stomach in the same form in which they entered it: such is the case with mucus, whether solid or liquid; with resins, woody fibre, and fecula. According to the author, not only do these matters traverse the stomach unaltered, but the whole com-se of the intestines also; and without giving to the system any nutritive principle. It is important to understand that by the word " fecula" is here meant starch in its raw state, and as it exists in the form of minute globules, now well known as objects of singular beauty when viewed throvigh the microscope by polarised light. These globules may be discovered in great abundance in the excrements of many herbivora that eat largely of amylaceous food. The ruminants, however, and graminivorous birds seem to have the power of crushing them, and the true starch thus becoming liberated in a soluble state—a change efiected under other cii-cum- stances by heat*—is readily absorbed. * This fact renders it probable that great advantage would accrue from scalding the oats and other amylaceous parts of the food of horses that admit of such treat- ment. The globules would thus be made to burst, and the starch, consequently, would be liberated in a soluble form, fit for absorption.