53 BY WILLIAM DUDD, M.D. Spengler,* on "The Strength of the Ai-terial Stream;" in Dr. G. Bui-rowes's excellent Croonian Lectures on "The Circulation in the Brain;" and in some papers by Mr. G. Robinson, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions and the Lancet, on "Venous Absorption." All these papers will be found worthy of an attentive study, and I regret that I have not room for more than this bare mention of them. I would only remark, that Mr. Robinson's papers are distin- guished by great clearness of ideas on the particular subject in hand, and that his observations on absorption, especially, will, if confirmed, tend to give great precision to our views of this process, and to fix more exactly than we have hitherto been able, the conditions by which it is regulated. These are points of great practical importance, because on our knowledge of these conditions, so far as they are under our control, must depend the proper application of remedies in a great variety of cases. It is to be hoped that our increasing knowledge of these subjects will soon enable us to dismiss such vague phrases as " stimulating the absorbents," and the like; a phraseology which belongs to the infancy of science and a barbarous age, but is quite intolerable in the present day. I now pass on to tlie other great division of my subject, namely that which relates to the anatomical form of the structm-es of the body, and to the functions of these structures considered in the sense of vital endowments. From the vast number of observations in this wide field, I am compelled to restrict myself to a selection of the more interesting and important. Many things must be omitted from this selection, which of right should find a place in a report of progress. In excuse for this I must plead my own want of time, and the limits of the space allowed me in these pages,— limits which, I fear, even with the reserve which circumstances have imposed upon me, I may still be tempted to transgress, to the exclusion of more important matter. I feel it necessary to say thus much, for the satisfaction of those who may be disappointed at finding no notice of their labours here. I may also add, that a great number of observations, of various kinds, although both novel and interesting in themselves, have been left out designedly; * Mailer's Archiv, 1844, heft i., p. 49. E