37 BY WILLIAM lU'UD, M.D. period of wasting, which went on steadily until the dog died. In the fifth experiment similar alternations occurred. The author is of opinion that the only probable explanation of these anomalies is, that in the intermediate period the continuity of the duct was temporarily restored. In some of the experiments the dogs were allowed to lick up the bile as it escaped on the floor, which they did very eagerly, but they did not the less continue to lose weight exactly as before. The final result in all these experiments furnishes conclusive proof, if indeed proof were needed, that the bile is not a merely excrementitious fluid, but that, after its discharge into the intestines, it is destined to serve an ulterior purpose of essential importance to life. The measure of this is well given by the striking fact, which few, perhaps, would have anticipated, that when this fluid is allowed to ran to waste in dogs, they die of inanition quite as soon as if starved to death by total privation of food. For the precise intei-pretation of this remarkable result we must await that section of Professor Schwann's researches, in which the part which bile performs in digestion and chylification is to be fully considered. Meanwhile, the observations made in his eighteenth experiment will be found of some interest in their bearing on this point. '\'\Tien the dog which was the subject of them was already at the point of death. Professor Schwann killed it by blood-letting, in order to procure its blood for analysis. He then made a careful examination of the body, and ascertained the following facts:— " In the abdomen there were no traces of actual inflammation, and only a few partial adhesions. The gall-duct was so completely obliterated, that the hepatic duct passed by a continuous curve into the cystic duct, without showing any trace of the former insertion of the ductus choledochus communis. There \\ as still some fat remaining about the mesenteiy. "Tlie lacteals of the mesentery M-ere translucent and almost empty. The thoracic duct, within the chest, contained a moderate quantity of lymph of whitish colour, like milk diluted with water. This lymph coagulated in from ten to fifteen minutes, and, therefore, contained fibrine. Under the microscope there were found in it, besides lymph-corpuscles, a great number of fat- globules of all sizes, like those of milk, but some much larger than those usually found in that fluid. The stomach was filled