nv WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 35 effected under very simple conditions, and in substances employed by nature herself." With evidence of such various kind, thus pressing upon us from all quarters, and all tending to one point, it becomes impossible to resist the conclusion that animals have the faculty of forming fat out of the saccharine elements of their food, as Liebig has all along held. It is no small testimony to the sagacity of this distinguished chemist, that the first complete and rigorous demonstration of the fact, (in the instance of bees,) should have been fui-nished by the very men who had done so much to render it probable that animals have no such power. Still, the original paper by Dumas and Boussingault on the fattening of cattle, and formation of milk, will ever be highly interesting from its great intrinsic value; and, for this reason, I have given an abstract of it a place in this Report, although the chief conclusion it .was intended to establish is now set aside. For the rest, all analogy concm-s to show, as M. Dumas has so well remarked, that the conversion of sugar into fat in the living body most probably occurs in the prhruE vice, by a special fer- mentation, and not in the blood. The important remark, that the saccharine element of the milk of the carnivora must be formed by a process, which is probably exactly the reverse of this, namely, the conversion of fat into sugar of milk, appears to have entirely escaped the attention of physiologists. This product cannot be derived as such from the food of these animals, which contains no element of the kind, while many analogies render it probable that the fat of their bodies is its true source.* The subject is well worthy of investigation from its close bearing on the pathology of that most interesting and obscure disease, diabetes. From these investigations into the nature and source of the constituents of animal bodies, furnished to them in their food, I pass on to the process of digestion by which they are prepared for absorption into the blood. Dui'ing the past year many valuable contributions have been made to oui' knowledge of this function. The foremost in rank and importance is an elaborate work by M. Blondlot, entitled Traite Ayiahjtique de la Digestion. The method of investigation adopted by the author is one which, as the gift of * Dr. Prout would probably say " gelatine."