63 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. the union here mentioned, the cortical membrane is brought into perfect fusion with the origins of the great cerebral nerves, the optic, and the olfactory. In separating, therefore, the nucleus from the external cap, the only two genuine anatomical connections that have to be severed are, according to M. Foville, the central mesh of fibres, and the junction of the convolutions mth the perforated space. Tlie central mesh, which is very broad, and springs from a curved line along the whole convexity of the nucleus, includes fibres from the posterior and lateral columns of the cord, and also nearly the whole of the anterior columns, which pass up almost entire from the central axis to the convolutions in this assemblage. The fibrous element of the connection between the convolutions and the perforated space is, on the contrary, wholly furnished by the posterior columns. The precise way in which this connection is established is somewhat difficult to apprehend; but as far as can be gathered from the description, the most important feature of it is, that the fibres from the posterior column here split into a double membrane, which incloses the convolutions in the space between its layers. The external layer constitutes the outermost white stratum, fii'st well made known by M. Baillarger, and more recently accurately studied by Lelut; the inner one is here described, for the fii-st time, by M. Foville himself, and must be added to the series given by M. Baillarger, whose anatomy of these structures, however, with this important addition, om- author adopts entire. His description of this layer is very minute and circumstantial, and as this, if confirmed, must prove to be one of the most interesting results of M. Foville^s labours, I shall give it in his own words. Speaking of this layer in its relation to the stratum of cortical matter, he says,—" The former follows, within, all the folds of this stratum, in the same way in which the pia mater follows them without. The pia mater throws off" from the surface corresponding to the cortical matter numberless vessels, which penetrate per- pendicularly from without inwards; the deep layer of fibrous matter which we here propose to consider as an essential element of the cortical stratum, throws off likewise from its sm-face processes of nervous matter of extreme tenuity, which penetrate the cortical stratum from within outwards, in a direction the exact reverse of