BY WILLIAM BUDl), M.D. i >) caused alike by impressions on nerves which impinge on the common centre at such various and distant points. It is remark- able that this, among the many apparently insuperable difficulties in the way of this theory, should not have occurred to its ingenious author. Some misgivings of it, however, may perhaps be discovered in the following passage:—"It is remarkable that the medulla oblongata should be the central organ of the reflex acts in so many physiological arcs \" I would ventui-e to suggest, that in connecting this idea with that of the possession of sensation by this structm-e, we shall find the best key to the difficulty. But, probably, the author considers this difficulty already solved by the instance of the act of breathing; an act quite as special in character as any of the group, and which experiments already cited clearly prove may be excited (alike) by nerves arising from the most distant points of the surface, and which enter the spinal marrow at points as remote from each other, as those supposed to convey the exciting impulse in the other instances. But, on close examination, the cases will be found to be essentially difierent. Breathing is a permanent function, inces- santly necessary to life, and the mechanism for it is permanently laid down in a fixed anatomy: and while experiments show, conclusively, that it may be kept up as a pui'ely reflex act, by impressions on nerves of very distant parts, the experiments of M. riourens prove, on the other hand, that, to this end, the integrity of some such central grouping as that already surmised is necessary, since the slightest damage done to one point in the medulla oblongata, instantly and finally abolishes the act. Is there a corresponding and independent arrangement of the same kind for each of the other acts here considered—for vomiting, sneezing, coughing, &c.? Admitting the agency concerned to be purely physical, this would be absolutely necessary under the supjiosition; for otherwise, the only conceivable source of variation that could be introduced to account for the varying re-action in these several acts, would be the admission of the excito-motory impulse to the cord, in more than common force, through particular channels. Something, perhaps, may be claimed for differences in the mode and intensity of the impressions communicated. But, although it must be admitted that variety in these conditions will, of necessity.