KETllOSPECT 0¥ ANATOMY AND PHVSIOLOGY, 88 author expresses himself with great reserve and caution; and, in particular, he confesses liimself unable to determine what relation, if any, it bears to the electric current, which may be discovered in all muscles in their passive state. But M. Becquerel, who has repeated M. Matteuci's experiment with him, asserts that the fact cannot be explained without admitting the occun-ence of an electric discharge in the muscle; and seems to be confident in the opinion, that this discharge must have an essential and physiological connection with the act of contraction. The experiment itself is very simple; and for the information of those who may wish to repeat it, I will here copy the author's own account of it, which is given in these words:— " I place a frog, prepared in the ordinaiy manner, as in the original experiment of Galvani, on an isolated plane covered with oil-cloth. I then prepare another frog, so as to retain only one of its legs, with the bundle of nerves, from the spinal cord to the muscles of the leg, left hanging from it. To avoid error, it is necessary to have all the muscles of the thigh removed, and the nerves laid bare, and clear of other tissue. I then lay this filament of nerves on the thighs of the first frog, in such a way that the leg itself does not touch the thighs, and that the nervous filament connecting the two lies loose and free from traction. I then wait until the convulsive movements caused by the rapid preparation of the frog have entu-ely ceased. The experiment might indeed be made without this precaution, seeing the striking difference between these convulsive movements and the phenomena about to be described. If we now touch with a galvanic couple, the lumbar nerves of the first frog, the muscles of its thighs immediately contract, and at the same instant the leg whose nerves lie across these thighs is suddenly convulsed." When very lively frogs are used, the experiment succeeds eq\ially well, on merely irritating the lumbar nerves of the first frog, without the galvanic couple. Numerous other experiments are related, which prove that when the galvanic couple is used, the convulsion in the second leg is altogether independent of any direct influence from it. M. Matteuci has also made the experi- ment, with the same success, in laying the nerves of a prepared frog's leg on the bare muscles of a living rabbit. Whatever interpretation this phenomenon may ultimately receive,