BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 97 of these islands, a great part of which, at least, leave their in- organic remains with us.* Again, is it a work of accident, that six hundred British ships laden with guano—^with phosphates, in short—are at this moment benduig their sails to our ports; or, rather, may we not discern, here, one of the thousand ways by which, in the great scheme of ProAddence, this wonderful balance is ever being restored. In this great economy, in fact, loss is impossible. We may cast our phos- phates into the sea, but there will be no waste. In the next moment, the floating and errant particle is redeemed into life by the plant or animalcule; these, again, are made the food of fish, and, through these last, the ocean is made to disgorge her prey to the inhabitant of the land. And thus is closed up and made perfect, that great cycle of life, of which the law is, never-ceasing change without loss. The recent investigations of Professor Edward Forbes, touching the distribution of living beings in the depths of the ocean, have a very curious bearing on these speculations. The doctrine already incidentally alluded to, that plants, alone, have the power to organise simple chemical bodies, and that the tissues of all animals ultimately come out of plants, is well known, as the great deduc- tion of modem chemistry. It is therefore rather startling to find the researches of Professor Forbes giving, at first sight, a direct and practical denial of it. The general result of his observations, first in the British seas, and more lately in the ^gean, was "to define a series of zones, or regions, in depth, and to ascertain speci- fically/ the animal and vegetable inhabitants of each. Regarding the tract between tide-marks as one region, which may be termed the littoral zone, we find a series of equivalent regions succeeding it in depth. In the British seas, the littoral zone is succeeded by the region of laminaricE, filled by forests of broad- leaved fuci, among which live some of the most brilliantly-coloured and elegant inhabitants of the ocean. This is the chosen habitat of LacuucE, of Rissofe, and of nudibranchous mollusca. A belt, * It may seem a strange question, but it is one that admits of being asked,— Whether, if these phosphates were cut off from the sea, we might not shorten the breed of those fish that frequent our shores? Certainly, at least, we should diminish the supply of the mineral constituents of the microscopic beings which pullulate in such myriads in our deltas; beings, in which fish find one of their chief sources of nourish- ment, and which form one of their chief attractions to our coasts.