50 RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, to confer so high and valuable a mark of distinction on this memoir. For thus giving, with so little to justify them, such an effectual encouragement to cruelty of the worst kind, they deserve the grave rebuke of all humane men. I am not one of those who entertain what may be held to be maudlin and sentimental objections to experiments on living animals. But while freely admitting that such experiments are justifiable, where we are warranted by previous and well-founded induction in the expecta- tion of results of importance to the well-being of man, attainable by no other means, I the more feel bound, on the part of all true lovers of science, to enter an indignant protest against such wretched cruelties as these, undertaken almost at random for the chance of what may turn up, and for the production of phenomena which accident and disease are daily offering to oui* observation on a large scale, and into the nature of which science has already given us the clearest insight. I want words to express my own abhoiTcnce of these practices, and my deep sense of the guilt of those who resort to them. The frequency of them in France, and the shocking levity with which they are undertaken, is the great blot on the present character of physiological science in that countiy. I shall not weary my readers with any account of another series of almost equally cruel experiments, undertaken by the same physiologist with a view to determine the effects of a diet of pm-e sugar. I pass them over with the greater satisfaction, since the author of them has already received on theii- account a well merited chastisement from a more powerful arm than mine.* To complete this review of the recent progress of organic chemistry, it only remains for me to briefly notice Liebig's remarks on the kindi-ed processes of fermentation, putrefaction, and decay,—processes which, in one form or another, play an important part in many both healthy and morbid changes in the living body, besides their allotted task of resohing it after death into the chemical elements out of which it originally came. His observations are quite decisive in showing the purely chemical nature of the agency which the ferments and other bodies in a * See " Observations on Organic Chemistry," by Professor Liebig; Lancet, June 29, 1844, p. 437.