9 BY WILLIAM aVDD, U.O. That, moreover, in the essay aUuded to, they had recognised the necessity of grouping together all the organic bodies \\ hich have the property of passing into lactic acid by fermentation, such as sugar, starch, and their equivalents; bodies which enter as a staple and important element into the nutriment of man and animals, and are likewise produced by plants alone; views Avhich, together with further developments, were summed up as a consistent whole in the following table:— THE VEGETABLE Produces .. neutral azotised matters, " fatty matters, " sugar, starch, gums. Decomposes carbonic acid, " water, • " ammoniacal salts. Extricates oxygen. Absorbs .. heat, " electricity. Is an apparatus of reduction. Is motionless. THE ANIMAL Consumes neutrtil azotised matters, " fatty matters, " sugar, starch, gums. Produces carbonic acid, " water, " ammoniacal salts. Consumes oxygen. Produces heat, " electricity. Is an apparatus of oxidation. Is locomotive. The authors add, that although these laws have reference to a cei-tain nimiber of facts and principles already known, they constitute as a whole, and in this, their correlation, a system which they have a right to consider as new. As far as the neutral azotised matters are concerned, they remark, in the memoir of which I am now giving an abstract, that the indispensable obligation under which all animals are placed, of making these matters a part of their food, almost demonstrates of itself that they have no power to create them. But to place this result in its full evidence, it is necessary to follow these matters through the organism, and ascertain their final destination. Now, it is extremely easy to prove that they are essentially represented by the urea which in man and the herbivora forms the principal product of urine, and by the uric acid which in birds and reptiles takes the place of this principle. Abstraction made of the excrements, an adult man absorbs each day a quantity of neutral azotised matters representing scarcely more than fifteen or sixteen " grammes" of nitrogen; a quantity which reappears in its whole amount in the 30.32 "grammes" of urea eliminated with the urine, in twenty-four hours.