34 KETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 6. When a dog is fed upon cane sugar and water, a portion of the sugar may be found in the urine.* I need not point out the various interesting applications of these results to the pathology of diabetes, for whose especial elucidation they were undertaken. Studying the phenomena of digestion from another point of view, MM. Gruby and Delafond appear to have made the curious discovery, that infusoria are developed in great numbers in the stomach and intestines of various animals. Four species are found in ruminants, seven in the horse, two in the dog, but only one in the pig. In the sheep they so abound, that the authors estimate their weight at one-fifth of that of the liquid in which they swim: they exist in enormous numbers in the two first stomachs, but in the third and fourth their skeletons only are found. In the intestinal canal of the horse, however, they are found alive in the narrow colon, and even as low as the rectum. From these circumstances, M. Gruby is led to infer that they perform an important office in the digestion of ruminants and other herbivorous animals, in converting their vegetable food into animal products, so as to render it more fit for their general nutrition. Chemically speaking, however, there is no object to be gained in this; and it is, moreover, only throwing the difficulty on the infusoria, if difficulty there be. At all events, it cannot be admitted that the agency of these minute creatm-es has any essential physiological relation to the function of digestion, as M. Gruby would seem to believe. To complete my account of this particular province of physiolog)', it will be necessary to advert to some recent investigations into the composition and uses of bile. A monograph on the subject has lately been published by M. Bouisson, which, although it does not contain much original matter, gives a very good epitome of our present knowledge upon it. The author begins with an account of the microscopic appearances of bile. Healthy bile, if not concentrated, merely gives a yellow stain to the glass on which it is laid, and usually offers no definite objects. Sometimes there may be seen epithelial scales from the * Medical Gazette, vol. xxxii., p. 124.