85 BY WILLIAM BUDU, M.D. the functions of the uervous system are reduced to such simple anatomical conditions, much elucidation of what is obscure and complicated in vertebrata of higher organisation. It is not difficult to see the close and important bearing which the anatomy of its spinal cord already has on the present course of speculation, on the subject of the so-called reflex phenomena. I shall bring this part of my subject to a close with a brief notice of the observations, by which Bidder and Volkmann have lately sought to prove, on anatomical grounds, that the sympathetic is not, as some have taught, an offset from the brain and spinal marrow, but must be regarded as an independent and separate system. The evidence on which they lay most stress, and which they seem to consider as in itself sufficient to establish the point, is set forth in the following statements:— 1. The fibres of the sympathetic are much smaller than those of the cerebro-spinal, insomuch that the largest fibres of the fornier are separated from the smallest of the latter kind, by a broad gap, which plainly divides them into two distinct groups. 2. That in the frog, all the sympathetic fibres to be found in the roots of the cerebro-spinal nerves, would not, if added together, make one-third of the whole amount of such fibres contained in the peripheral branches of the sympathetic system. 3. That a very large proportion of the fibres of the sympathetic are derived from its own ganglia, in which they may be seen plainly originating from the well-known corpuscles which form the granular roatter of these bodies. An observation to this effect has ah-eady been quoted from Hannover. In further support of this statement it is asserted, that in the ophthalmic ganglion of the cat, the efferent fibres are four times, and in the coehac ganglion of the same animal, three times as numerous as the afferent. In addition to these more important facts, the authors bring forward certain anatomical characters, which serve to distinguish the two classes of fibres from 6ne another. As these have already been quoted in nearly the same terms from Hannover, they need not be repeated here. In answer to these statements, Valentin, who is the great champion of the doctrine that the sympathetic is a mere offset of the cerebro-spinal system, makes the following objections:— G