llliTllOSl'ECT or ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 16 oxidised proteine in inflammatory blood, accords well with the observations of Dr. Polli,* on the coagulation of blood, which may therefore be fitly introduced here. This physician finds that the presence of carbonic acid in blood always retards coagulation. The more carbonic acid the blood itself contains, the slower is the coagulation, and the greater the chance of a buffy coat being formed; and a bufiy coat being formed, without froth and over a dark clot, is always a sign of the blood being sm-charged with carbonic acid.f Midder fui-ther remarks, at the end of his paper, that the flesh we eat must become oxidised in cooking, and, therefore, that the chief part of the proteine compounds we take in must enter the body in a state of oxidation. * Gazetta Medica diMilano, Aprile 15, 1843; Paget's Report on the Proyrenii of Anatomy and Physiology for 1842-43. t Two other conditions co-operate lai-gely in the result, namely, the increased proportion of fat in inflamed blood, and the tendency of the red corpuscles to adhere in roUs. The opinion that fat is one cause why the buffy crust swims on the blood, has lately been confirmed by Baumhauer, who found in the buffy coat from the blood of a horse :— Fat, soluble in ether 3.27C Buffy coat, insoluble in ether 96.724 The following observations on the other point are taken from Mr. Paget's excellent " Report," passim:— " Buffy Coat.—The exact mode of the formation of the buffy coat has been well illustrated by Mr. Whai'ton Jones, whose obsei-vations on the blood I can in nearly all points confirm. He ascribes it, as Nasse and others did, chiefly to the tendency of the blood corpuscles to arrange themselves rapidly in rolls, (like rolls of coins,) which form a wide-meshed network, (as seen in a single layer under the microscope,) or a kind of spongework when they are kept in mass. In the former case the liquor sanguinis coagulates within the meshes of the rows of the corpuscles, and hence the distinctly mottled aspect of the layer when coagulated, as well as when first drawn. In the latter case the spongework formed by the rows of corpuscles contracts and squeezes out the liquor sanguinis, and permits the greater specific gravity of the corpuscles to come into play, so that they sink quickly and the liquor sanguinis floats to the top and coagulates in a distinct layer. In both cases the pale corpuscles remain with the sej^arated liquor sanguinis, and we imbedded in its white coaguluni. The attraction for each other, by which the corpuscles tend to unite in rolls, is so remarkably increased in the state of the blood in which a buffy coat is formed, that the early or instantaneous occurrence of this ai-rangement of them, as seen by the microscope in a single drop of blood, affords all the evidence which could be derived from the formation of a buffy coat on a large quantity." And, further, quoting again from the same report:—" According to Mr. T. Whurton Jones, the congestion which succeeds to the temporary acceleration of the capillary circulation in an uiflanied ]iart.