RETEOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 38 with curdled milk—(the animal had been fed on milk the twenty- fom- hours preceding death.) The upper half of the small intestine, also, contained a milk-like substance, which was very fluid in the duodenum, but in the jejunum rather more consistent. The whole upper half of the intestine showed no trace of yellow colour." These results certainly give some colour to M. Blondlot's opinion, that bile is of small importance in digestion; for the fluid here described as taken from the thoracic duct, had all the characteristics of well-elaborated chyle. But, however this may be. Professor Schwann's investigation, taken as a whole, gives strong support to Liebig's theory,—that the greater part of the bile is re-absorbed, and that its principal importance is as fuel for respiration. For numerous and well-authenticated cases have taught us, that the common gall-duct may be permanently obliterated in man, and yet life continue for many years; so that it seems fair to conclude, that the speedy death which followed Schwann's experiments on dogs, resulted not so much from detriment to digestion, as from the waste of bile as material for the use of the living economy. And since the bile which is re-absorbed never re-appears in any of the other secretions, its carbon and hydrogen must evidently pass off" in combination with oxygen, as carbonic acid and water. That a great part of the bile is re-absorbed in the higher animals, might almost be infei'red, without fm*ther investigation, from the enormous size of their livers; for the amount of soHd matter secreted by glands, bears some general proportion to their size, and it surely cannot be supposed that the very small quantity of biUaiy matter voided daily, can represent more than a small proportion of the secretion of such a vast organ. I have no doubt that when we shall have succeeded in ascertaining the exact amount of bile secreted daily, it will be found far to exceed all our present estimates of it. In the same number of Miillei-^s Archiv which contains Schwann's investigations, is a communication by Dr. Platner,* of Heidelberg, stating, that he has succeeded in obtaining the electro-negative body, which is supposed to be the essential constituent of bile, in a state of crystallisation, both pure and in combination mth * " Krystallisiition der Gallensaure und des gallensauren Natrons," beobachtet voii Dr. E. A. Platner, Privatdocent in Heidelberg.