48 itrriiosi'iiCT oi" anato.my and i'iivsiology, It certainly was an unexpected result, that the waste of these structures should be less than that of any others; the bones not excepted. According to M. Chossat's observationsj this waste is scarcely appreciable. I cannot but think that there must be some fallacy here, and that the fact will ultimately receive an interpre- tation, which will refer the maintenance of weight, in some part, at least, to the substitution of blood or other interstitial matter for wasted tissue. At least, thiere can be no doubt that the brain does very sensibly waste in the emaciation of disease. The mani- festly shrunken state of the organ in the bodies of those who have died of diabetes, of cancer of the pylorus, and other diseases that kill by inanition, is almost sufficient evidence of it. But if this left any doubt on the point, it Mould be entirely removed by the more precise observations of M. Foville, which, on account of their intrinsic interest, I shall here quote entire. This author, in a recent work, which I shall have to pass in review in the sequel, makes the following remarks :— " It is generally admitted that the cerebro-spinal system does aiot participate with the body in changes of volume corresponding to those which the latter undergoes in passing from a state of plumpness and muscular development to the wasted state which chronic diseases lead to. This opinion is without fomidation. " It is easy to satisfy one's self of this, on comparing the brains of fat and robust persons who have died of acute diseases, with those of others who have died in a state of marasmus. In the former, the convolutions of the brain, the lamellfE of the cerebellum, the peduncles, the pons, and even the spinal cord itself, show a degree of volume and roundness of form which is not met with in the latter. In these, in fact, the convolutions and lamellae are shrunken; the broader inter-spaces between them are filled with a large quantity of serum; the peduncles, pons, and spinal cord ai'e more angular in their forms, while their Mhole mass is diminished. The two offer, in one word, differences corresjionding to those were capable of entering into the state of motion have served to jjrotect tlie remainder of the frame from the destructive influence of the atmosphere. Towards the end, the particles of the brain begin to undergo the process of oxidation, and delirium, mania, and death, close tlie scene; that is to say, all resistimce to tlie oxidising power of the atmosjjheric oxygen ceases, and the chemical process of eremacausis or decay commences, in which every part of the body, the bonrs excepted, enters into com- bination with oxygen."—|'p. 21), 27.