BY WILLIAM BUDD, JI.D. 89 the fact is rendered doubly interestiag by the discovery, recently made by M. de Quatrefages, that in certain transparent annelida every act of muscular contraction is attended by a flash of light; this Hash being, in fact, the cause of the phosphorescence of the animals in question.* The current which M. Matteuci describes as being peculiar to the body of the frog, he very satisfactorily shows to have been the source of the phenomenon originally discovered by Galvani, and well kno'UTi as the first germ of the vast science which still bears his name. Of this current, all that seems needful to be said here is, that it passes through the whole mass of the animal, and is quite independent of the nervous system. In the prepared frog, in fact, it keeps its dii'ection and full intensity, though the animal be stripped of spinal marrow, of the spinal and crural nerves, and of every ^dsible nervous filament in the muscular mass of the thigh. In his inquiry into the conditions wh.ich afi'ect the manifestation and intensity of the proper current of the frog, the author found them identical with those which afi'ect, in the same way, the muscular current already spoken of, as common to the muscles of all animals. What adds to, or takes from, the intensity of one of these currents, has the like efiect on the other. Whence the inference is pretty plain, that these phenomena probably have their soui'ce, at bottom, in the same molecular changes. Nevertheless, many remarkable points of difi'erence are observed between them, not the least of which is the fact, that whereas the muscular current is found alike in the muscles of all animals, the "proper current" can be detected in the body of the frog only.f In salamanders, eels, * See several numbers of the Annates des Sciences Nattirelles, for 1843, and also the Comptes Rendtis de VAcademic des Sciences, for January 15,1844, which contains a Report, by Milne Edwards, on M. de Quatrefages' researches. In this Report Milne Edwards states, that in examining very attentively certain "Beroes" of the Mediterranean, which shed a vivid light around them, he had ab-eady remarked that the light proceeds from the ciliated ribs with which the bodies of these zoophytes are garnished,—these being tlie very parts in which the organs of motion are seated. I regret that it does not fall within the scope and objects of this Report to notice, at length, the admirable series of researches by M. de Quatrefages, which are so rich in observations of general physiological interest. t One effect of this current is, that whenever the circuit is closed by connecting the upper pai-ts of the animal with the muscles of the lower extremities, a convulsion ensues. This observation acquires collateral importance, from the fact tliat this cause of muscular contraction lias been endrrly overlooked by those physiologists