RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 4 There is, still, too general a disposition among medical prac- titioners to rate discoveries in this science in accordance with their immediate and obvious applications to the healing art. But surely the adoption of such a low standard of value implies great short-sightedness, and still greater ignorance of the history of science; as if the more general and abstract the truth, the greater were not, of necessity, the number of practical consequences it involves, and the greater, ultimately, the practical gain. Were it needful, a thousand instances might be brought from the annals of invention to illustrate this truth. When knowledge, from being made subservient merely to the bodily wants and comforts of man, came to be cultivated for its own sake, he fii-st became conscious of his true dignity and power. The springing up of this impulse in the various branches of human inquuy, was a great epoch in the history of all sciences, or rather might be said to constitute their first origin; for it was thus that art became science. It was then that inquiry into Natm-e grew to be a worthy and ennobling pui'suit; and in reward for this obedience of man to his higher instincts, once a right method of inquiry fovmd, the introduction of this spirit into the cultivation of each department of knowledge marked the commencement of a brilliant series of discoveries, which brought immense accessions to his power. In the study of the phenomena of hfe, the change was slow to make. Happily, however, for the advancement even of practical medicine itself, physiology is now extensively cultivated as a pure science. Numberless works of great merit are wi-itten upon it; chairs are instituted for the teaching of it; endowments are made in support of its votaries; and, in all civilised countries, numbers of eminent men dedicate their lives to its advancement. Thus in this branch of human knowledge, also, the division between the practical and the speculative, the experimenta fmctifera and experimenta lucifera, is final and complete. We must all rejoice, therefore, that this Association has at length recognised this great principle, in requii'ing separate reports on the subjects of physiology and practical medicine. Other motives, no less imperative, had indeed rendered such division necessary; for, so great is now the number of labourers in the field, so rapid the accumulation of new facts, and so active the development of new ideas, that the task of the mere annalist in either branch is one of