81 BV WILLIAM 15UJ)D, M.D. power of muscle, yet the astonisliing effect of strychnia in increasing this, sufficiently shows an intimate and essential relation between the two.* The nature and source of these powers in their joint exercise have long been a subject fruitful of speculation. Hitherto, however, the field has been almost wholly left to the metaphysician and the natural philosopher. Among physiologists, only the more speculative have ventured to break ground in it. The more practical men have always held aloof, either regarding such inquiries as a waste of time, or looking upon all hopes of their leading to any material discovery, as vain and delusive. Of late, however, clearer ideas have begun to prevail on the subject, and most physiologists of the present day see, with more or less distinct- ness, that the motor force which animals have at their command must be a purely physical power, and that its relation to other physical agents is not only a legitimate object of investigation, but one that almost certainly lies within the limits of discovery. Few, however, even now suspect the deep interest such a discovery would necessarily have for the practice of medicine, and its intimate bearing on every part of the same. Yet this strikingly appears from the large part which the motor powers of animals fill in the business of life, from the need of their incessant exercise for its maintenance in higher animals, through the acts of breathing and circulation; from the frequency of the sudden extinction of these powers by various deadly agencies; from their susceptibility of more or less rapid exhaustion; and the need of rest and new material for their repair. Recently this, along with almost every other high subject in physiology, has been dealt with by the chemists; and it must be confessed that they have handled it with great boldness, and have apprehended its true relations, as an object of inquiry, with great clearness of thought. To them we are mainly indebted for the more distinct ideas upon it, which are beginning to make their way among physiologists; and in connecting with one another, by material and quantitative relations, the two grand characteristics of animal life, namely, the combustion of matter and the produc- tion of mechanical force, they have probably thrown out an idea * I need scarcely remark, that the direct action of strychnia is confined to the cord, and only reaches the muscle throtigh the nerve. This admits of experimental proof.