KETllOSPECT Ol" ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, It was with the object of verifying, controlUng, and hmiting whatever of truth these conclusions contain in relation to the neutral azotised matters, that the experiments which form the body of the memoir now under consideration, were undertaken. My space does not allow me to do more than to give the general conclusions they serve to establish, and which are thus stated in the memoir itself:— 1. "Albumen possesses the same composition in all animals, and, therefore, a fortiori, in all the fluids of a single animal. "Vegetable albumen differs in nowise from animal albumen, as to elementary composition, only it is not accompanied by free soda, (according to Liebig, bi-basic phosphate of soda,) the contrary being ordinarily the case with animal albumen. 3. " Caseine furnished by herbivorous animals is always of one composition, and as nearly as possible identical in properties. " In woman, however, who by her habits of life approaches the carnivora, the milk furnishes a species of caseine, which, although similar in composition to that of the herbivora, nevertheless possesses properties of such kind, that it may be one day necessaiy to establish a distinction between these bodies. " In the blood of the ox a substance is found which seems identical with caseine, both in elementary composition and in general properties.. The flour of the cerealia likemse contains a body which may be classed with caseine, on the same grounds. " Moreover, the caseine of the milk of herbivora, that of the milk of women, the caseine of blood, and that of flom-, possess exactly the same composition as albumen; so that these are certainly isomeric bodies." Thus far it will be seen that M. Dumas' results correspond with those of the school of Giessen, with which Liebig's works have made us all so familiar, and which, collectively, constitute the great discovery of recent times in organic chemistry; but at this point there arises an important difference between them. M. Dumas contends that fibrine is not, as Liebig and his followers assert, identical with albumen, inasmuch as, although the difference be slight, it indisputably contains more nitrogen and less carbon tlian the latter. The following is the mean result of his analyses of this body, as found in the blood of man;—