BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 35 mucous membrane of the gall-bladder and duct, small crystals of cholesteriue, and, if the bile be concentrated, irregular solid particles of biliary matter. M. Bouisson next gives an historical account of the opinions that have prevailed at different times as to the composition of bile. He seems to have made no researches of his own on the point; and the conclusion he di-aws from a comparative study of the investigations of others, is, that the essential ingredient is a watery solution of a peculiar soap.* He ascribes great influence to the bile in digestion, and holds that, as it travels along the bowel, by far the greater part of it is again taken into the system. He also considers that it promotes the formation and absorption of chyle in these several ways:— 1. By stimulating the intestine, and by preventing the decom- position of chyme. 2. By dissolving fatty matters, and thus favouring their absorption. 3. By taking part in the conversion of aliments, and especially in the formation of albumen out of other matters.f 4. By neutrahsing the acid of the chyme. In his chapter on the differences of bile, according to age, sex, &c., the only part worth particular notice is that on the bile of the foetus, which, according to the author, differs from the bile of the adult chiefly in the smaller proportion of choleate of soda, and corresponding predominance of colom'ing matter. The remaining portion of the work is chiefly pathological. From this brief sketch it will be seen how widely M. Bouisson's opinions are at variance with those of M. Blondlot, as to the part which bile plays in chylification. There can be no doubt that the former physiologist greatly overrates its influence in this process. It may be remarked, in particular, that the recent investigations of chemists leave no foundation whatever for the opinion which M. Bouisson has adopted from Prout, that bile helps to form albumen out of other matters. All these questions seem now to be in a fair way of being cleared up by the ingenious experiments of Dr. Th. Schwann, of * See " Demaryay's Papers." t Prout.