BY WILLIAM BUDi), M.D. 43 tent to judge in such matters will agree in the main with the author, in the following propositions:— " First; that the analysis of urine, when made without respect to the inorganic salts, acids, and bases supplied by the aliments, teaches nothing whatever, and by no means justifies us in drawing therefrom any physiological or pathological inference. Secondly; that, from the nature of the ashes of the aliments, we are able to determine positively the inorganic constituents of the m-ine emitted. And, thix'dly; that only when the amount and nature of these ashes have been distinctly ascertained, can we expect to derive from the analysis of the urine any correct information with respect to the inorganic matters which have come to be present in it through processes of disease. This, at least, is the chemical method of quantitative investigation." Such is a very brief summary of the leading results put forward in this highly original and important paper. But the whole communication is replete with interest, and is characterised throughout by that ingenious application of principles to the interpretation of the phenomena of life, which so remarkably distinguishes all the productions of this eminent chemist, and makes them so rich in suggestions, as well for the practitioner as the physiologist. It well deserves a most attentive study at the hands of both.* From this account of the chemical forms in which the materials of the body are discharged in their daily waste, we naturally pass * The following extracts fuinish a good illustration of these remarks:—" It will now be understood why the alkaline phosphates are generally absent from the urine of herbivorous animals, and also why, in certain cases, they may be found in the urine of these animals. If the nutriment of these animals contain no soluble phos- phates, their urine cannot contain any, whilst if we add a certain proportion of grain to their food, the alkaline phosphates may be detected in their urine. Thus it is obvious, likewise, that the soluble phosphates in the urine of man are merely accidental constituents, and that by simply adding lime or magnesia to the aliments, and thus assimilating the constitution of these aliments to that of the food of herbivorous animals, the urine must become altered in its nature and properties. The knowledge of the influence which alkalies, magnesia, and lime, or acids, exercise upon the properties of the urine, or, in otherwords, upon the secretory process of the kidneys, in the healthy organism, is of the highest importance for the curing of diseases. I believe that there is now required only a small number of good and correct observa- tions to establish a fixed rule for the remedies necessary in various cases. Future properly directed experiments will prove whether sanguification is absolutely dependent