llKTllOSPliCT OF ANATOMY ANU I'UYSXOLOGY, 90 turtles, and other animals among the nearest akin to frogs, it was sought for in vain. In another part of the work there is a very important investiga- gation into the phenomena that occur on making and breaking contact, when weak galvanic currents are made to pass through the nerves of living animals, or those of the prepared frog, I have not space to enter into the details of these experiments, but the most important result of them, stated in general terms, was this;—that after the fii-st lively susceptibility has passed away, the passage of the cui'rent through the nerve in one direction excites the muscles to contraction, while, in the opposite direc- tion, it is without any effect of this kind. It is plain that this may one day become a fact of great importance, since it seems to imply a dynamic relation between the two agencies—galvanism and nervous force.* But by far the most interesting part of M. Matteuci^s work is that which relates to the phenomena of electric fish. This arises, no doubt, in part, from the inherent and undying interest of the subject. In the single instance in all natui-e, which these creatui-es afford, of a common physical agent placed under implicit submission to the will of a living animal—an agent, whose artificial develop- ment is the result of familiar and every-day experiment—there is, sm-ely, something that must arrest the attention of the dullest witness of the fact. In the possession of voluntary power over muscular contraction, we have, no doubt, a fact of the same ordei-; but, here, the true natm-e of the phenomenon is obscured to us through oui* familiarity with it, and through om- iuvolimtary habit of con- who have occupied themselves with investigations into the functions of the spinal marrow, and with whom, for obvious reasons, the frog has always been a favourite subject of experiment. It appears not at aU improbable that some, at least, of the phenomena observed in these investigations, and set down to spinal agency, were, in fact, electrical. There is the more reason for supposing this, because M. Matteuci states that the electric phenomena occur, even when the circuit has to be completed through the body of the observer and the groimd. We must infer, at least, from these facts, that no convulsions in the frog can be admitted as spinal acts, unless it be shown that they cease on destniction of the cord, or continue when the animal experimented on is placed on an isolated support. * Through the kind courtesy of the author I was enabled to witness the whelo series of highly interesting experiments on which the statements in the text are founded, as they were performed by him in Kmg's College, London, on his return from York.