RETROSPECT Ol' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 92 There is no part of M. Matteuci's work more interesting, than that which illustrates, in various ways, the entire dependence of the electric force of the torpedo on the nervous system, and the dynamic nature of the relations by which the two are connected. " I have observed," he says, " that when two or three of the nerves of the electric organ are divided, the discharge is afterwards limited to that part of the organ whose nerves are left entire." Again, when all the nerves are divided, and the electric function is thereby destroyed, a discharge may be obtained by pulling with a forceps any one of the nerves, by the end in connection with the electric apparatus, just as a muscle may be made to contract, under the same conditions. But what is still more worthy of remark, is, that in this case the electric discharge is not general, but is strictly and accurately limited to that part of the organ which is suppUed by the irritated nerve. All these relations are illustrated, in a still more striking way, by the action of strychnia, which causes, on the one hand, a tetanic state of the muscles of the fish, and, on the other, and at the same moment, a rapid succession of electric shocks, occurring of their own accord. This is a fact that almost realises om* idea of "a glaring instance." The direct and dynamic action of the drag, be it remembered, is single, and confined to the nervous centres. Only by its influence on these, does it aiFect the electric organ and the muscle. How clear, then, that its efi"ects on these last are exact equivalents, and how striking the evidence of the intimate relation of both to the nervous force. Who can contemplate this circle of relations, without being reminded of the strictly analogous relations between electricity and magnetism, and other forms of the same power, which, to the minds of many, fore-shadowed the fundamental identity of these forms, long before this was finally established by experimental proof. It has already been shown that, for the muscular force, and the electric force of electric fish, the conditions of action are identical, down to the minutest particulars. If this be true, of the condi- tions of their exaltation, it is not the less so, of those of their exhaustion, and of the resources needful for their repair. "The Indians assured us," says Humboldt, in his Personal Narrative, " that when horses are put into a pond crowded with electric eels, not a single horse is killed the second day. These