47 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. the lingering tortures of death by starvation, in order to obtain them? Was it even necessary for the end in view? To the shame of this cruel physiologist be it stated, that there is not one of these results which might not have been deduced, scarcely one, indeed, which had not already been elicited, and that not vaguely, but with every needful precision, from the principles of organic chemistry, and the facts which accident and the observation of wasting diseases had ah-eady thrown in our way. In most recent works on organic chemistry, but especially in that of Liebig, they are already clearly and explicitly laid down; and not as in M. Chossat's investigations, in the form of blind and empirical facts, but in that of deductions from principles established on a scientific basis, and giving the rationale of the phenomena. Liebig's account of the phenomena of starvation has all that superiority over that of M. Chossat which science has over diy empii-ical fact without interpretation. But, to enter into particulars, let us ask—Was it necessaiy to starve great numbers of turtle-doves to death, in order to ascertain that fat and muscle and its equivalent, blood, and other kindred matters, contribute most to the waste of the body in starvation? If accidental starvation and wasting diseases had never been, would not the phenomena of hybernation and the mode in which the carnivora are nourished have sufficed to establish all these points on a basis that could not possibly be made more sure? Did we require M. Chossat's experiments to learn that the fibrous tissues, and those structures of which gelatine, vidth or without large quantities of earthy matter, is the basis, sufier but small loss in comparison? For the chemist, as well as the physiologist, the small supply of blood these structures receive, would alone have been sufficient evidence. Every day observation, too, had prepared us for the fact, that the nervous centres shrink but little, and science had already offered an explanation of it.* * In reference to these points, I cannot refrain from quoting the following interesting passages from Liebig's Organic Chemistry in Application to Physiology and Pathology:— " In the progress of starvation, however, it is not only the fat which disappears, but also, by degrees, all such of the solids as are capable of being dissolved. In the wasted bodies of those who have suffered starvation, the muscles are shrunk aiul \mnaturally soft, and have lost their contractility: all those parts of the body whicli