RKTKOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOOY, 63 varying shapes, has long been current among physiologists of all countries; and so far from there being in it anything to wonder at, still less any ground of merit, it is one that, in some sense or other, must naturally suggest itself to every one at all versed in compara- tive anatomy, by the division of the encephalon, as we descend the scale of vertebrata, into a series of lobes or ganglia, each appro- priated to its own nerve of special sense, and developed in exact proportion to the perfection of the organ which this nerve goes to supply. But, after all, it may well be questioned whether the use of this language in its present vague sense be not, as the French so well express it, " se payer de mots,"—to substitute a phrase for real knowledge. To call the brain or cerebellum a ganglion,—a name, by the way, in itself of trivial meaning,—brings but small enlightenment while we are still in such profound ignorance of the attributes of the simplest organ of this class. The great anatomical fact, in regard to the brain and cerebellum, which it appears to be one of the objects of M. Fo^dUe's work to establish, is that both may be separated into two grand elements, fundamentally different in character; namely, a central nucleus, formed upon, and constructed out of, the great central axis of which the cord is the continuation, and a covering to this nucleus, enveloping it in the form of a cap, and consisting of the convolu- tions and the fibrous expansion on which the cortical matter of these is laid downa. It is in the brain, especially, that this admits of the most complete demonstration. The author gives a method of effecting this separation, and numerous figures of. the two parts thus divided, which in the plates certainly look very definite and shapely, as if they were true and genuine anatomical, and not artificial elements of structure. The peripheral part, he labom-s to show, has with the nucleus only two principal physiological con- nections; one, by a broad central mesh of fibres, which comprises, in fact, the whole mass of fibres radiating from the great central axis to the convolutions; the other, by the convolutions themselves, which, in one point of their circumference only, are intimately united to the nucleus at the border of the perforated space—a region to which M. Foville attaches extraordinary importance, and which he regards as the grand centre and rendezvous of the most important elements of these structures. Thus, for instance, by