UETROSPECT Ol' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 36 Lowen.* These experiments, which were made on dogs—those martyrs to experimental physiology—were performed in the follow- ing manner:—the common biliary duct was first tied, as in the investigations of Brodie, Blondlot, and others; but in order to prevent the poisonous effects which result from the detention of bile in the system, an artificial fistula was formed between the gall- bladder and walls of the belly, through which this fluid was allowed to escape. The experiment did not always succeed: many dogs died from the first effects of the operation, from peritonitis, and other causes. Some, however, suffered very little from it: in the course of a few days the woimds were perfectly healed, the artificial fistula was permanently established, and the animals had completely recovered from the effects of the operation, considered as such. The effects which followed were simply those which result from the absence of bile in the intestine, and from the waste of this fiuid; effects which the professor had thus an opportunity of observing free from all complication. The only object proposed in this, his first paper, was to determine how far the discharge of bile into the alimentary canal is necessaiy to life. It is clear, however, that these experiments cannot give a precise answer to this question, for the effects which followed were probably due quite as much, if not more, to the waste of bile as to its being shut off from the intestine. However this may be, the result was, that all the dogs experimented on gradually wasted away and died; and, what is very remarkable, died quite as soon as dogs starved to death by total privation of food. It is important however to notice, that for the first three or four days, many of them did not lose a single grain in weight; a result which cannot well be explained, unless by supposing that they ate more than before. But in the greater number there was very evident wasting as early as the third day, and this went on gradually up to their death, which was evidently the result of inanition. In two cases, however, there was a middle period in which the process of emacia- tion was for a time stayed. Thus, in the seventeenth experiment, after the first three days the dog gradually lost weight for three weeks, when it again began to gain, and continued to do so until it had nearly recovered its original weight; then followed another * Versuche, um zu auszumitteln ob die Galle im Organismus eine fur das Leben wesentliche RoUe spielt; Midler's Archiv., heft ii., 1844.