71 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. Hannover also describes transverse fibres in the cord, but confesses that the great difficulty of the investigation pi-evented him from determining their true relations. He states that the peripheral terminations of the fibres of nerves are of several kinds. He agrees with other observers that in muscles they always end in loops, but denies that this is the case in the retina, or that they here form a plexus, as some have asserted. In his drawings of the retina the fibres are shown lying parallel to one another, and he gives it as his own opinion that they terminate in free ends. In the skin also, according to the author, they often end in the same way. His description of nerve-fibres agrees pretty well with that of Remak, and he gives abundant proof that the central axis is a natural element of it. The fibres of the sympathetic difier fi'om the cerebro-spinal, in being much smaller and of more simple structure; in the absence of the central axis; and, also, in being garnished with nuclei along their whole com'se. He states, that in the ganglia they can be veiy distinctly seen originating from the true ganglionic cells—a point of some importance in relation to discussions now pending as to the independence of the ganglionic system. Besides these, Hannover's work contains some observations on the nervous system of young and foetal vei-tebrate animals, as also on that of a few invertebrata. The results offer no particular interest beyond that of confirming, in a general way, those already passed in review. Lastly, must be mentioned his very accurate and excellent account of the retina, and of the expansion of the acoustic nerve. The anatomy of the retina, in particular, is admirably done, and appears to form the chief merit of the work: but as it would be doing this observer a great injustice to quote it apart from the beautiful plates by which it is accompanied, and without which it would be all but unintelligible, we may pass on to other matter. It is pleasing to the mind to leave these regions of tlic vague and doubtful, for the more precise and purely experi- mental investigations of Dr. Marshall Hall. In this difficult and intricate part of anatomy there is good reason to believe that function, like optical phenomena for crystals, will for some