UY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D, 33 creatic juice, and bile, when placed in relation with the excreting ducts of the glands which furnish these fluids." Another French physiologist, M. CI. Bernard, has since taken up the subject of digestion in a different way. His first object was to determine the exact amount and natm-e of the influence which the gastric juice has in the process. With this view he adopted the singular plan of injecting various aliments into the blood, now alone, and now mixed with gastric juice, and watching the difference in the result.* It is obvious however, that experiments made in such violation of all the conditions of nature, cannot lead to any profitable conclusion. In evidence of that indifference to the labours of the physiologists of other countries, which has become characteristic of his countrymen, M. Bernard shows his complete ignorance of many important investigations bearing on his subject, which have lately been undertaken in England and Germany. Had he been acquainted with the interesting researches of my friend. Dr. Percy, he would have seen at once that the elimination of sugar through the kidney, when this substance is injected into the blood, by no means warrants the conclusion he has attempted to di-aw from it. Of Dr. Percy's researches, to which I now pass, the following are the principal results:— 1. ^^Tien grape sugar is present in the blood in a certain quantity, a portion of it is speedily eliminated by the kidneys, and may be found in the urine. 2. ^^Tien grape sugar is present in the blood only in small quantity, it does not pass into the urine in an appreciable degree. In this case it probably undergoes oxidation in the lungs. 3. "VlTien cane sugar is present in the blood in certain quantity, a portion of it passes into the ui-ine as cane sugar; it does not appear to be converted, in the smallest proportion, into grape sugar during its passage through the blood. 4. When cane sugar is present in the blood in large quantity, it exerts a powerfully dim-etic action, and the virine evacuated appears to be principally a solution of sugar. 5. When grape sugar is introduced into the stomach under conditions favourable to absorption, a portion of it is rapidly absorbed and passes into the urine. * Archives GMrales tie Midecine, Mars, 1844.