74 RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, directing a current of air upon the general surface, or applying any other form of irritation."* It is, certainly, a very beautiful result to show that such an important function as that of breathing, depending for its exercise on rhythmic movements continued incessantly through life, is maintained by a j)U7'ely physical principle of action. The fact, however, is not difficult to conceive, seeing what modern invention has succeeded in accomplishing, by combining a simple moving power with mechanism. In the rhythmic movements of the steam-engine we may find a not unapt parallel to the phenomena of breathing, which they so well mimic,—a parallel in which, perhaps, there is more and deeper analogy than meets the sense in the outward cu-cumstance,—and one which may well abash the boldness of those who deny the theory here given of these phenomena, on the ground of the insufficiency of the means to the end attained. If man, -with his limited powers, can accomplish so much, what may not the Great Contriver of the universe perform by similar means. From other parts of this memoir it appears, that Dr. Marshall Hall still adheres to the theory he has already given of the acts of coughing, sneezing, vomiting, &c.; and although he admits that the last-named of these acts is sometimes of centric origin, he seems to be of opinion, that it is far more commonly a reflex phenomenon. In illustration of this view, he introduces into his diagrams, nerves from the vagina, uterus, m-eter, gall-duct, and other parts, through which the impulse is supposed to find its way to the common centre of reflex acts—the cord—thence to be reflected on the stomach. Nowhere, however, is it explained, how phenomena that ai"e brought about by a principle of action admitted to be purely physical, and for the direction of which on particular groups of muscles, in order to the performance of these special acts, a corresponding grouping of nerves more or less closely about a central point, would seem to be a necessary condition, can be * Op. cii., pp. 262-6. Again,—"The same phenomena are ohserved in cases of partial asphyxia, induced by retaining the animal for a certain time in a limited portion of atmospheric air. When removed and laid upon the table, acts of inspiration may be excited by any of Uie means I have mentioned. A current of air induces an act of inspiration only: irritants applied to the general surface induce common reflex move- ments, together with the act of inspiration."—p. 265.