76 RETllOSPECT OK ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, introduce some difference into the character of the resulting act, yet it can be clearly proved, by conclusive facts, that this is quite insufficient to account for the change in the whole course of innervation, and for that special direction of it into particular groups of muscles, while neighbouring muscles are thrown into complete relaxation, which characterise the acts here considered, and distinguish them from one another. This is not the place to bring forward the evidence, by which I think it may be shown, that another and wholly different principle of action is here introduced, and is an initial and essential condition of the phenomena; in short, that the old theory, as Dr. Alison has all along held,—that these acts are governed by pecuHar and appropriate sensations,—is the true one. It may, however, be remarked, that the act of laughter caused by tickling, alike, whether the sensatioTi of tickling be excited through the nerves of the foot, or those of the sides, may be taken as an exponent of the true physiology of the whole group, and also as a clear illustration of the views here maintained. It may also be added, that the prerogatives of sensation and emotion,—for the two blend in one principle,—in directing motor power into particular groups of muscles, with singular variety of result,—^prerogatives, co-ordinate as they are in this respect with those of the will,—have never been sufficiently considered in their applications to physiology and pathology. It may be safely pre- dicted, that much that is now, with a confidence that knows no doubt, very differently interpreted, will one day find its true explanation in these applications. In support of this, I need only point to the phenomena of hysteria and mesmerism, to be suffi- ciently understood, although the observation may easily be extended to other subjects. I am sorry to be obliged to dismiss in few words Mr. Ne^^^ort's " Anatomical and Experimental Researches on the Nervous System of the Myriapoda," published in the last number of the Transactions of the Roijal Society. The gist of Mr. Nev\-]wrt's paper lies in the description of what he supposes to be a true reflex anatomy in these animals, in the shape of certain fibres, Avhich, entering the nervous cord or axis from without, do not pass on to the analogue of the brain, but after a short and uninterrupted course,