59 liY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. readily understood that descriptions of anatomical connections, so minute and intricate as those of the more complicated parts of the nervous centres, are utterly unintelligible without the help of plates. Indeed, even when the descriptive power of the anatomist is illustrated by the pencil of the artist, it is often extremely difficult to gather the meaning of the author. To transfer such descriptions to these pages, therefore, M'ould mislead rather than inform, and tend to retard science instead of advancing it. But a more weighty reason still, and one that of itself would justify me in the course I take, is that the authors to whose inves- tigations I shall have to refer—physiologists of high repute, and of almost equal authority in such matters—are often in direct contradiction with one another, touching points of the most elementary kind and of cardinal importance. Thus M. Foville, whose name has acquired an European celebrity from his researches in this branch of anatomy, teaches, in his description of the spinal cord, that through the whole length of this structm-e there is a decussation of its anterior columns, so that ultimately the whole of the fibres of the right side of these columns are found to have passed to the left, and vice versa. In the upper part of the cord, between the pyramids, some such crossing is very generally admitted, and is, as one would fancy, very obvious to sight. M. FoviUe states, that the same thing may be shown through the whole cord by a very simple anatomical manipulation. He states further, that in the act of crossing these fibres dip inwards, so as to become lateral, and at the same time so entirely change in aspect as from being white to become grey. Still more than this, M. Foville adds, that at his suggestion M. Gruby has examined these parts most carefully with the microscope, and has entirely confii-med every one of these observations. Moreover, to illustrate the text, several figures are given, in which all these details are exhibited with such clearness and distinctness as would seem to leave no doubt of their being true to nature. Among M. Foville^s plates there is certainly no figure more clear and defined than that which exhibits the decussation of the anterior columns. If this figm-e is not to be trusted, one really cannot know what faith to put in the rest. What shall we say, then, when we find Dr. Stilling,—who claims the greatest accuracy for his observations, and who has examined the cord throughout most minutely with