60 IIETIIOSPJSCT OK ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, the microscope,—stating, that if there be two points in its anatomy that may be considered absolutely clear and certain, they are these:—that there is no decussation of the anterior columns, and that nowhere are the white fibres found passing into grey. Hannover, again, fully confirms these statements by independent observations; and the apparent truthfulness of his plates, and the fact of his having received a prize for his investigations from a body well qualified to pass judgment in such matters, would seem a sufficient guarantee for his trustworthiness. Now, when men of the fii-st authority differ on such a cardinal point as this, and one, as it would seem, so easy of determination by methods at ready command, one is really at a loss to know what to think of any of their observations. The fact should certainly impose on us extreme caution in admitting any such into a report of progress, unless they come recommended by various and weighty support of other kinds. For these several reasons, in my review of the progress of this branch of anatomy and physiology, I shall, as a general rule, only touch on such observations as seem to be established on good groimds, or to involve doctrines of cardinal importance; reserving, however, the privilege of extracting, now and then, any isolated fact that may appear to be of more than common interest. Of the works I shall have to pass in re^dew, that of M. Foville, On the Anatomy of the Brain and Spinal Cord, is by much the most voluminous; and, as far as evidence of years of unwearied labour goes, although this by no means consti- tutes its highest pretensions, it comes before us -ndth stronger claims to our notice than any of the others. Unfortunately, however, for these same reasons, the difiiculties in the way of an analysis of his researches are greater in the same proportion, and, in fact, under the circumstances, quite insuperable. To attempt to give anything like even a cursory view of the whole, within the narrow limits of this report, would be to do the author great injustice; and those who desire to obtain it, must refer to the book itself. I must content myself here with a sketch of the most general and important of the results he has arrived at, offering, in conclusion, a few remarks on his methods of investigation, with a view to determine the degree of confidence to which they entitle his researches.