BY WILLIAM BIDD, M.D, 57 appear to suffer. In particular^ he ascertained that there was no diminution of the venereal appetite or procreative power. In no case did he witness anything like an attempt to form a new spleen, as Meyer, of Bonn, pretends to have done. I regret that I can give no account of Mr. Simon's prize essay on " The Anatomy and Functions of the Thymus," in consequence of not having yet had an opportunity of reading it. In Miiller's Archiv, (1843, heft, iii.,) are two papers on "The Anatomy of the Liver," by Weber and Kruckenberg, which con- tain a good account of the vascular element of this organ. They point out, as its leading characteristic, the immediate breaking up of large vessels into minute capillaries, forming a network throughout the liver;—a description which accurately agrees with that of Mr. Bowman. The only novel part of their papers con- cerns the biliary ducts. Weber distinctly asserts that these do not terminate in blind ends, but anastomose with one another, so as to form a similar capillary network to that of the blood- vessels with whose meshes they are interwoven. Strange to say, they neither of them make mention of the proper cells of the liver, which their mode of examination, namely, by injection, had probably hidden from them. They both agree in stating that there are no such things as distinct acini in the liver, separated from one another by cellular tissue, a statement in which they are again in agreement with Mr. Bowman, but M'hich INIiiller endeavom-s to controvert in some critical remarks appended to theii' papers. On other parts of anatomy there is nothing that need further detain us from the more important labours which concern the nervous system, and the other subjects to which the remainder of this Report will be given. Various motives still continue to render the nervous system and the great function of reproduction, the favoui'ite subjects of inves- tigation with physiologists. The brilliant light already shed by the microscope on the most obscure parts of the physiology of reproduction, with its rich promise of further illumination, might well give to this subject more than common attractions for the