4 BY WILLIAM BTDD, M.D. 27 an animal be suddenly killed during digestion, and the stomach examined, its walls will be found closely applied to the alimentary mass, in which it is impossible to discover any gaseous mixture." M. Blondlot has been unable to detect sulpho-cyanogen in saliva, and is of opinion that the substance named ptyaline* is not peculiar to saliva, but common to all mucous fluids. In considering the uses of the bile, he discusses, one after another, the principal hypotheses which have been made touching the part it plays in chylification. He deals, first, with the office ascribed to it of neutrahsing the acid of the chyme, and inquires how the very small quantity of alkali this fluid contains can suffice for the purpose, since M. Thenard has proved that a few drops of vinegar are enough to neutralise all the bile foimd in the gall- bladder of an ox. He adds that the matters povu'ed from the stomach into the duodenum retain their acidity after their mixtui'e with the bile, to nearly the same degree as before, and only lose it as they travel along the intestine; and finally remarks, that if the bile were meant to neutralise the acid of the gastric juice, how should it happen that in some animals it is poured directly into the stomach, in such manner as must, under this supposition, destroy the chemical properties of the special fluid this viscus secretes, before chymification is completed. That the alkali of the bile assists in dissolving the fatty matters of the food, he considers as still less tenable, since what little this fluid contains must be already neutralised by the acid of the chyme. Nor does the author concede any office of the kind to the biliary matter itself, which has been thought to render fat more fit for absorption by forming an emulsion with it. To establish these opinions on sure grounds, he placed Hgatui-es on the common biliary duct in several dogs. The intestines being now cleared out by a dose of croton oil, various aliments, such as bread and milk, flesh, and cheese, w^ere eaten by the dog in each experiment with some eagerness. At the end of five or six hours, the animal being killed and immediately opened, M. Blondlot invariably found, in direct opposition to the observations of Brodie, and Tiedemann and Gmelin, a white and * These two last statements throw some little discredit over the chemical part of M. Blondlot's investigations. Saliva certainly does contain suljiho-cyanogcn; and the fact that this fluid has the jiower of converting starch into sugar, while otlicr mucous fluids have not, is strong presumptive evidence in favour of ptyaluie beinR, to some extent, a peculiar principle.—See Dr. ^Vright's ))Hpprs on " Saliva," in the Lancpl, jianxim.