84 RETROSPECT OP ANATOMY AND PIIVSIOI.OOV, " One of the most remarkable peculiarities in the lancelet is the absence of the brain. Retzius, indeed, describes the spinal marrow as terminating considerably behind the anterior extremity of the chorda dorsalis, in a brain which exhibits scarcely any dilatation; but careful examination of the dissection of my own specimen, which I have also submitted to the inspection of Dr. J. Reid, and of other competent judges, has convinced me that the spinal cord, which may be traced with the greatest ease to within -J^th of an inch of the extremity of the chorda dorsalis, does not dilate into a brain at all. It may be urged that we ought to consider the anterior half of the middle third of the spinal marrow, where it is most developed, to be the brain, and all that portion of the chorda dorsalis which is in connection with the branchial cavity, as the cranium. That this does not express the true relation of the parts, is evident from the fact, that this portion of the cord, to its very extremity, gives oS nerves which are too numerous to be considered as cerebral, but more especially from the mode of distribution of the first and second pairs, which in my opinion, proves the anterior pointed extremity to be the representative of the brain of the more highly developed vertebrata. A brain of such simplicity necessarily precludes, on anatomical groimds alone, the existence of organs of vision and hearing. These special organs, which are developed in the vertebrata, at least, in a direct relation with the cephalic integuments and the brain, could not exist, even in the form of appreciable germs, in the lancelet. " The peculiarities in the structure of the spinal cord are not less remarkable than those of its configurations. It is difficult to understand, according to the received opinions on the subject, how a spinal cord destitute of primitive fibres and tubes, and composed altogether of isolated cells arranged in a linear direction, only, towards the middle of the cord, can transmit influences in any given direction; and, more especially, how the tract of black or grey matter, if it exercises any peculiar (excito-motory?) function, communicates with the origin of the nerves. The nerves also are remarkable, originating in single roots, and containing in their composition only one kind (cylindrical) of primitive fibres." There can be no doubt that as om* knowledge of this subject enlarges, and our inquiries begin to sha]oe themselves out into definite questions, we shall find in this singular creature, in which