RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 18 From the great amount of heat evolved in the seat of inflam- mation, and other equally significant circumstances, it might already be inferred, that increased oxidation is an important element of the morbid changes. All this was veiy clearly and explicitly developed by Liebig, in his chapter entitled "Theory of Disease."* Mulder's observations on the buffy coat are chiefly of value in substantiating this view, by precise and authentic evidence. To state, however, as Midder does, that the formation of a larger proportion of oxidised proteine in blood constitutes the only difference between the inflammatory and the normal condi- tions, is, I need scarcely remark, a very one-sided and limited view of the subject. The next paper that falls under oui- notice is one by MM. Dumas, Boussingault, and Payen, on " The Fattening of Cattle and the Formation of Milk." The investigation, of which it communicates the results, was undertaken with, a view to determine the source of the fatty matters which animals store away in their bodies, or fornish in the shape of butter. The authors give, at the outset, a very full and fail* statement of the grounds of the commonly received opinion, that animals form a part of their fat, at least, out of other principles. These gentle- men were, however, early led to believe that animals have no such power, but that they find then' fatty, as well as then* azotized materials, ready made for their use in plants. I need not give in detail the various considerations which fii'st inclined them to this opinion, in spite of the gi-eat difiiculties that stand in its way, and the numerous analogies in favour of the opposite doctrine. These considerations were principally founded on M. Payen's discovery of the great abundance, and almost universal diffusion of oleaginous principles in plants; on the fact, that certain oils taken in the food reappear unchanged in the milk; and, lastly, on Magendie's observa- tions on the formation of chyle. This physiologist, in obser^'ing the phenomena of digestion in dogs, soon found that this fluid varies greatly in constitution, in accordance with variations in the qualities of the food. The chyle formed under the use of a vegetable diet rich in * Chemistry in its Applications to Physiology and Pathology.