46 RETROSPECT 01*' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, greater approach to exactness, the loss of weight suffered by many of the elements here specified; such as the blood, for example, the muscular portion of the stomach, and so on. The next series of observations given, was made in order to ascertain the effect of starvation on the temperature of the body. Knowing, as we do, that the food is ultimately the source of animal heat, it was natural to expect that one of the first effects of starva- tion would be a fall of temperature in the animal. Observation has already taught us, as Liebig has well remarked, that a starving man is soon frozen to death; and that in gratifying our appetite for appropriate food, we obtain the best protection against cold. In the animals starved to death by M. Chossat, the fall in temperature was uniform, but slow, up to the day before death; the total fall in the thermometer during this period being about 2°.5 centigr.; the daily fall about 0°.3 only; but on the last day, the thermometer fell rapidly from hour to hour, untd the animal died, the temperature having sunk on an average 14° in the course of this day, and being at the moment of death, only 24°.9. As animals plunged in freezing mixtures generally die when cooled to this point, and as M. Chossat's victims perished with all the symptoms of death fi-om cold, he was led to infer that the imme- diate cause of death in starvation is the failm-e of animal heat. The truth of this inference was fully established by the following experiment:—Several turtle-doves, at the very point of death, were placed in a vessel made for the purpose, and warmed by artificial heat. Before the heat was applied they were in a state of insensi- bility, with their bodies abandoned to the force of gravity, and without power to move; but as their temperature rose their senses and vigOTU" returned; they began to flap their wings, then perched themselves on the edge of their stove, and next flew about the room and took what food was offered them. If they were kept warm for some time longer, most of them recovered, when well fed; but it is important to remark, that if the artificial heat was withdrawn too early, the food was not digested, and they soon died. Such are the principal results of M. Chossat's investigations; the only ones, indeed, for which any importance can be claimed. Some of them are, without doubt, more or less interesting; but we must here repeat the question—Was it justifiable to subject hundreds of animals, endowed with great capacities of pain, to