87 BY WILLIAM BUDDj M.D. Tliat such a transition should not be felt to be abrupt, but, on the contrary, should be almost expected, bespeaks, perhaps, better than anything that coidd be said, the high interest of the subject. A very elaborate work upon it has recently been published by M. Matteuci, whose numerous detached observations on these phenomena, which have, from time to time, appeared in the Reports of the French Academy, are, probably, already known to the members of this Association. The present work contains these observations in a collected form, together vpith many new experiments, and the author's matured views on the theory of the phenomena. The fii'st part of the work is taken up with proving:—First; the existence of electric currents in all living muscles in their passive state. Secondly; that of a cvu'rent of constant course and direction peculiar to the body of the fi'og. And, lastly; the occurrence of an electric discharge in all muscles at the moment of contraction. All these points are well made out, clear from all fallacy arising from chemical change, difference of temperature, or other sources of electric distm-bance at the point of contact between the apparatus and the subject of expeiiment. The dependence of the phenomena on the living .state, and their relation to certain organic conditions, are also clearly established. But the difficulty runs through them all, as to how far they have any essential jjhysioloc/ical connection with the function of the living part, or be not rather mere epiphenomena of secondary importance. Nevertheless, all these interesting relations are well worthy of being kept in view, in the present state of speculation in this part of physiologJ^ In regard to the exact source and nature of the phenomenon which occurs in muscles at the moment of contraction, the Ruckenmarkes, by Schultz. (Tliis work contains an account of " Purkinje's " Observations on the Dura Mater of the Spinal Cord.")—On the Physiology of the Nerves and Spinal Cord, a Monograph, by W. F. Arnold.—On "The Nervus Accessorius," by Morganti, Schmidfs JahrMlcher, No. vi. 1844.—For Observations on the same Nerve, by Vrolik and Spence, see Paget'n Report.—" Recherches Experunentales sur les fonctions du Nerf Spinal," by CI. Bernard, Archives Generates de Medicine, Avril et Mars, 1844.—" Revision of some of the Doctrines contained in former contributions to the Physiology of the Eye," by Volkmann, Schmidt's Jahrbucher, No. v., 1844.