ttHTHOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 98 generally of mud or gravel, in which numerous bivalve mollusca live, intervenes between the laminarian zone, (in which the flora of the sea appears to have its maximum,) and the region of corallines, which, ranging from a depth of from twenty to forty fathoms, abounds in beautiful flexible zoophytes, and in numerous sjiecies of Crustacea and mollusca, to be procured only by means of the dredge. The great banks of monomyarious mollusca, which occur in many districts of the northern sea, are, for the most part, included in this region, and aff"ord the geologist his richest treasures. Deeper still is a region, as yet but little explored, fi-om which we draw up the more massy corals found on our shores, accompanied by shell-fish of the class brachiopoda. Vegetables become fewer and fewer as we descend, and, at the end of one hundi'ed fathoms, are reduced to a single species,—a nullipora. A small space below this, and no plant is found by the present means of search." But, strange to relate, through a vast region below,—a region which, in the Mediterranean, exceeds all the others together,—Professor Forbes finds the depths still inhabited by animals. These are, indeed, few in number; but even at the depth of 230 fathoms, as many as eight species of testacea are found. If it be true that animals ultimately derive all their materials from plants, where do these testacea,—creatures, for the most part, fixed to the bottom,— find their vegetable food ? Doubtless, it will in the end be found that, even here, some kind of vegetation still survives; plants floating, perhaps, in shapeless and imperfect forms, that elude oui' present means of search, and that catch a feeble spark of life, fi-om the last few rays that find their way to these regions of perennial gloom. Perchance, too, we may discover some clue to the solution of this enigma, in the presence of some of those singular species of infusoria, which, by virtue of theii* green parts, share with plants in the power of decomposing carbonic acid, and organising dead matter; while, in all their other functions, they resemble other animals,—curious creatures of bi-fold life, which recent researches tend to show, are employed on a vast scale in the living economy of the globe. However this may be, when we reflect that light is the very life of plants, and its agency the first condition of their existence, this discovery of animals in regions, in which we know eternal darkness reigns, must, at least, be regarded as one of