BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 69 fibres take place,—the whole forming the anterior and posterior cross commissures. Under this view, the nerves may be regarded as great circles or loops, of which a very small segment is brought in contact with the longitudinal fibres proper to the cord. The anatomy of the medulla oblongata is more complicated. The elements already described are interwoven in a more intricate manner, and new elements are added. The description of these last would be unintelligible without plates. The most interesting point in the account of this structm-e is the statement that the vagus, glossopharyngeus, and, in part, the accessorius, bear the same relation to the hypoglossus, as the posterior to the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The remaining roots of the accessorius have a similar origin to that of the anterior spinal roots. It must be understood that here, as below, the roots of the nerves are continuous, and form in the same way the transverse commissures. If we now review this brief summary of Dr. Stilling^s obsei'va- tions, the facts that most strike us are those which concern the natui'e of the grey matter, the continuity of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, and, lastly, the relation of the fibres composing these, to the longitudinal fibres of the cord. Without adopting his anatomy of the two last-mentioned structures, which is, moreover, at variance in many essential points wdth Hannover's account of the same parts, I may remark that it derives support, as far as analogy can give it, from some recent researches by Mr. Newport, who has described exactly similar relations in the nervous system of the myriapoda. The "spinal bodies" to which the author attaches so much importance will, probably, be considered by most anatomists as nothing more than a variety of the nucleated cells which are so abundant in most parts of the nervou.s system, of which grey matter is a constituent. For, although the greater number of such cells are round, yet many of them are furnished with processes exactly like thosfe of the " spinal bodies," so that every gradation, in fact, may be found between the two. Not the less important, however, would be the fact, if true, of their being found exclusively among the fibres of the anterior grey tract. I must remark that it rather damps our faith in Dr. Stilling's competence as a microscopic observer, to find that these bodies were described, in his first scries of papers, as dilated or varicose cajnihu-ies. F