94- IIETIIOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, theless of the same kind, as that which exists between heat, light, and electricity; a conclusion, we may remark, to which many other philosophers have come, and to which the present course of inquii-y in all these subjects naturally tends.* To complete my task, little more remains beyond a brief notice of the contributions made, during the past year, to the physiology of reproduction. There must be few who have not been made aware, through the public prints, of the recent revival, with a feeling of very general interest, of the old theory of the analogy between the phenomena of rutting and menstruation, and of the essential relation of both, to the ripening and shedding of ova. For the first promulgation of this theory in a complete form, we are, it seems, indebted to oiu' countiyman. Dr. Power. Unworthy attempts have been made, in various quarters, to rob him of his just merit in this matter. Although he brought forward no dii-ect and undeniable proof of his theoi-y, there can be little doubt that it was founded on a large induction, fi-om analogy of various kinds; and it is not to be wondered at that he was satisfied with this, in a case in which all must admit that the force of analogy is unusually great. Since the first publication of his views. Dr. R. Lee, Dr. Martin Barry, Dr. Pater son, M. Gendi'in, M. Negrier, M. Pouchet, and others, have made investigations, which have conti-ibuted in no small degree to their final establishment. This seems to be now completely accomplished by the recent labovu's of Bischofi" and Rokitansky. The former in discovering, at the period of rutting or heat, in the Fallopian tubes of various animals to which the male had never had access, the ova that had evidently just been cast off" from the ovary, and the latter in proving, by an immense mass of evidence, the complete analogy between this function and that of menstruation, have fui-nished the only links that were wanting in the whole chain of evidence. It would be unjust, however, to the labours of former observers, not to state, that they had left but little room for doubt as to the last mentioned point.t * I rejoice to leai-n that the Royal Society have awarded the Copley medal to M. Matteuci, for these most interestiiig researches. f See, in particular, Pouchet's work, entitled Theorie Positive de la Fecondation dcs Mammiferes, basec mr I'Observation de toutc la Seric Animate. Paris, 1812.