73 BY WILLIAM BVDD, U.D. physiologist that I remember, was this demonstration so complete and satisfactory, that doubts on the point might not still be legitimately held, especially by those acquainted with M. Plourens' investigations. Dr. John Reid had, indeed, come very near it. But, with these new researches of Marshall Hall, this great truth is finally made a part of science. As its acquisition will, probably, in the end, be considered one of the greatest achieve- ments of modern physiology, I shall transfer to these pages the author's account of the principal experiments on which the demonstration rests, " If in a kitten, within the fii'st nine or ten days after birth, we remove the cerebrum, divide the pneumo-gastric nerves, and open the trachea, the respirations gradually fall in number, until they become repeated but three or four times in a minute. If now, during the intervals between the respirations, we direct a stream of air forcibly upon the animal, or irritate the nostril, the anus, the tail, the foot, or, in a word, any part of the surface, or jar the table, an act of inspiration is immediately excited out of the usual course of these acts. This phenomenon is constant. It is the more marked, the younger the animal. In a kitten within ten days from birth, it continues for an hour or two. It is still obsei-ved in kittens of three, four, and five weeks old; but at a later period the experiment is apt to fail: much, too, depends on the degree of loss of blood which has been sustained dming the removal of the cerebrum. In favourable circumstances, the slightest breath of air, the slightest motion, &c., induces an immediate inspiration. " Such are the proofs of the influence of the tri-facial and spinal nerves in exciting acts of inspiration. The proof of the influence of the pneumo-gastric in exciting the same acts, is afforded by removing the cerebrum, and then dividing first one, and then the second of these nerves: the number of the acts of inspiration, before and afte?- eac]i of these steps in the experiments, gives us the measure of the influence of each organ, as they are successively removed. In one experiment the respirations were very frequent before the removal of the cerebrum; about forty after its removal; about ten after the division of one pneumo- gastric; and three after the division of the second. Acts of inspiration were still excited in the nmnnor already described, by