BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 23 anew, under a method of investigation in which this, and all the other conditions of the problem, should be accurately determined by the balance. The inquiry was entrusted to MM. Dumas and Milne Edwards, so pre-emiaently qualified by their respective pm'suits to join in the task. The method of investigation adopted was the following:—A given niunber of bees were secluded in a glass hive and fed exclusively on honey. Before the experiment was begun, a large number of working bees fi'om the same hive Avere analysed, in order to ascertain the amount of fat the body of each contained. The honey on which they were fed was accui'ately weighed, and its content in wax exactly determined. Finally, at the end of the experiment, which lasted from the 7th of July to the 8th of August, a certain number of the bees were again analysed for their fat, and the wax produced was accm'ately weighed. The results obtained are expressed in the following figures:— Grammes. The fatty matter pre-existing in the body of each bee was estimated at .. 0.0018 That furnished to each bee in the course of the experiment did not exceed .. 0.0004 Fatty matter, which could be ultimately traced to aliments, did not amount, "I therefore, in each bee, to J 0.0022 Whereas, in the course of the experiment, each produced in wax 0.0064 And after having furnished this abundant secretion, each contained in its "I body, whether in wax or in common fat J ^-^^"^^ Making a total of 0.0106 So that the wax produced alone nearly tripled the amount of fatty matter pre-existing in the bodies of the bees, and that contained in their food, together; thus showing that a vast proportion of this wax must have been formed at the expense of the saccharine matter of the honey, and confirming in the most complete way Ruber's original and beautiful observation. This admirable investigation is deeply interesting in many points of view, but in none more, pei-haps, than in the beautiful evidence it gives of the competence of chemistry, in all that concerns the movement of matter through the living economy, to deal with the highest questions of physiology, and in the exemplification it affords of the unimpeachable authority the balance gives to observations in this science.