BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 79 properties of this power, and its relations to other agents, the most philosophical course to take, and that which has been followed with greatest success in other branches of science, is to determine the laws of the phenomena effected by it. To whatever this may lead us, whether—as Dr. Holland puts the question—" to infer the identity of the nervous agency with any of the powers sur- rounding us in nature, or to admit that it has no type elsewhere in creation," the result must be, in either case, of vast importance. To determine, therefore, in their most general expression, the laws of the phenomena now styled reflex, and to ascertain, in theii" simplest and ultimate form, the essential anatomical conditions of the manifestation of these phenomena, would, in itself, be a discovery of the highest order. Besides the vast addition that would thus accrue to oiu" knowledge of the properties and natui-e of the nervous power, it is impossible to foresee what light it might not throw on the phenomena of sensation and will. It is evident that these two principles of action, also, re-act on the world without by help of this same agency. The singular and varied adaptation of means to ends observed in numerous piu-ely spinal and automatic phenomena, has already led physiologists to remark with what curious accuracy these phenomena " mimic the motion excited by the will and guided by the understanding."* Indeed, it was the very perfection of this mimicry that so long misled Legallois and other physiologists, and veiled from them the true character of the phenomena they observed. And even in regard to other sensorial functions not resulting in muscular contraction, and which to us, in our present knowledge, seem of an essentially different character, in so far as these ai-e the work of physical instruments, and are by that much subject to physical conditions, who can tell what elucidation may not come from this line of investigation ? Relations of the most interesting kind may thus be unfolded, of which we can at present form no adequate or distinct conception. Of the possible extent of such elucidation, we may form the best estimate in considering the immense variety of phenomena, scarcely less different in outward character than are these varied actions of the nervous system, which, in optics and, still more, in electricity, the discovery of a * See a very able article on " Tlie Researches of Stilling, Hannover," &c., in the British and Foreign Medical Review, July, 1844.