HKTHOSPKCT 01' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOl.OC Y, 40 whose Studies do not enable them to appreciate other evidence, what reliance may be placed on the interpretations of chemistry in their application to the phenomena of animal life. The very low point which the exhalation of carbonic acid reaches in sleep, is the combined result of the diminished activity of respiration and circulation during that state. In sleep, as is well known, the pulse falls, and the breathing becomes limited both in rate and amjilitude; need must be, therefore, that the exhalation of carbonic acid diminishes in proportion. The knowledge of this fact fiu'uishes us with an important rule of life for persons exposed to the various disorders that result from repletion; namely, never to indulge in sleep soon after a meal. To limit the action of respiration at the very moment when the materials that feed this process are being poured into the blood in large quantity, must, by protecting excrementitious matters from oxidation, inevitably tend to an accumulation of bile and lithic acid in the system. This explains the pecuhar dangers of suppers in disorders of the class now alkided to, and shows how a single excess of this kind may, as practitioners have often an opportunity of observing, bring on a fit of gout or a bilious attack in persons predisposed Of researches on the urine, by far the most important are those published in the Lancet by Professor Liebig. As these researches are not only the latest, but also supersede our former knowledge by new discoveries, they are the only ones of which I shall give an account. To discover anything new in the constitution of a fluid, the investigation of which has so long exercised the ingenuity' of a host of eminent chemists, is in itself a proof of no small sagacity and practical skill. Now, in his paper in the Lancet, Liebig announces a twofold discovery of great physiological importance:— first, that lactic acid, which all other chemists have supposed to be an essential constituent of mine, does not exist in it; and, secondly, that hippuric acid, which was formerly considered to be peculiar to the urine of herbivora, is a constant and essential ingredient of that of man, and probably of other animals that subsist on a mixed diet. " All the urine," he says, " taken from individuals living upon a mixed animal and vegetable diet, contains hippuric acid, besides uric acid, and about the same proportion of both acids." I must refer my readers to the pa])er itself for the