17 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. These investigations are undoubtedly very interesting, but, on the whole, perhaps the author attaches too much importance to them. Without the evidence they afford, it must have been clear to every one who had ever thought on the subject, that the proteine compounds undergo ready oxidation at the temperature of the living body, from the waste which these compounds suffer when the animal is deprived of food. Still more plainly does this appear in the carnivora, animals that subsist on food identical with the chief constitu.ents of their own body; which last must, therefore, be incessantly furnishing fuel for the combustion by which their animal heat is maintained. Still, most physiologists will find it difficult to admit, vdthout further investigation, that the fibrine of the blood is the chief bearer of oxygen to the tissues. The observation that oxidised proteine is present in much larger quantity in inflamed than in healthy blood, is of value, were it only for its use in calling the attention of pathologists to the chemical phenomena of inflammation. Seeing the vast amount of chemical change that goes on in inflamed parts, the great destruc- tion of old matter, and the formation of new products chemically different, it is siu-prising that these phenomena have so long been overlooked in the investigation. As the disturbance of the normal conditions of nutrition, by the introduction of a chemical agent, is the most frequent cause of inflammation, and the first step in the process, so an enlightened pathology mil eventually show, that chemical agency plays, throughout, a fundamental part in the changes of which this process consists.* is due to the red blood corpuscles adhering together, (in the manner already described,) and to the walls of the vessels till stagnation occurs; and he has shown that the same arrest of the blood takes place when capillai-ies rn-e touched with a solution of salt, or when a stream of carbonic acid is directed against those of the fi-og's lung. From these last facts he suggests, with much probability, that the stoppage of the circulation in the capillaries when certain salts are added to the blood, and that which takes place in asphyxia, depend on a similar adliesion of the corpuscles. With regard to asphy.xia, his observations agree in their tendency with those of Dr. John Reid on the stagnation Ot the blood, independent of any apparent mechanical hindrance, when nitrogen is inhaled; and the action of carbonic acid in making the coqjuscles cohere in rolls and assume the most favourable condition for the formation of a bufFy coat, gives additional probability to the observations already quoted from Dr. PoUi." * Scheerer has recently made some very valuable investigations in this direction, and has given the results in his Mikrnscopische und Chcmische UntevitiicJmngen,— a very valuable work.