BY WILLIAM BUDDj M.l). 11 evidence on which these statements are founded, contenting myself here with remarkingj that it seems perfectly conclusive on both points. The author gives a simple process^ by which hijjpuric acid may be obtained even from very small quantities of urine. He was led to the discovery of this acid in human urine, by tinding, as Proust had done before, that in putrid urine of this kind benzoic acid is a constant product. He argued that the latter acid could not be an ingredient in fresh urine, since Ure and Keller have proved that crystallised benzoic acid becomes converted in the living organism into hippuric acid, and appears in the urine as hippurate of soda. Now, it being already ascertained that in the urine of the herbivora benzoic acid is developed by the putrefaction of hippm-ic acid, he inferred that in putrid human urine it must have the same origin, and that this mine also, in its fresh state, nmst contain hippuric acid. Direct investigation established the truth of this inference, as already stated. Concerning the source of this acid he offers the following considerations:— " As far as our investigations into the composition of the aliments of man will allow us to judge, they contain no benzoic acid fi'om which hippvu'ic acid might have been formed; and as the m-ine of cows is invariably rich in hippuric acid, no matter whether the cows have been fed upon hay or upon beet-roots,—of which latter plant we know positively, from the results of several examinations, and from the experience derived from the manufac- tm-e of beet-root sugar, that they contain no benzoic acid,—we can come to no other conclusion concerning the presence of hippiu'ic acid in the urine of persons living upon a mixed vegetable and animal diet, than that it is a product formed in the organism, to the formation of which their non-nitrogenous aliments give birth." These several points being ascertained, the author was enabled at once to point out the true cause of the acidity of urine, about which there has been so much debate. He first lays it down in ])rinciple that the inorganic bases ])resent in urine, such as potass, soda, lime, &c., have entered the organism through the medium of the aliments; a proposition which is, in fact, self-evident. Now, in the ashes of meat, and of the flour of cereals and leguminous plants, these elements are found in combination with phos])horic acid, in the form of bi-basic and tri-basic i)hos])hatos,— salts which have an alkaline reaction. In aninnds fed on these