13 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.l). lie between these two doctrines; and, indeed, the researches of Mulder, to be presently mentioned, show that the proteine com- pounds of the blood are incessantly being oxidised in the act of respiration. In the memoir before us M. Dumas follows these matters to their final destination, in the following terms:— "As the nitrogen they contain is foimd again, entire, in the m-ine, imdcr the form of urea, it only remains to inquire in what urea difiers from the neutral azotised matters, from which it is derived. Now, the beautiful researches of M. Wohler have taught us, that urea may be produced by a modification of cyanate of ammonia, which, itself, consists of an oxide of cyanogen and an oxide of ammonium. Thus, there pass out of the animal four oxides, namely, carbonic acid, water, cyanic acid, and oxide of ammonium, the two latter, in their modified combination, con- stituting urea; so that it is by a true process of combustion that the azotised matter of the food is converted into tu-ea." This deduction, which the admirable researches of Liebig* and Wohler, on the transformations of m-ic acid, first enabled us to draw, and which is developed with great clearness by Liebig, in his work on' Organic Chemistry in its Applications to Physiology, is one of vast practical importance. For it is well known, and especially in regard to urinary ingredients, though equally triie of the other excretions, that the exact chemical form in which these excrementitious principles shall appear, is liable to wide variation, and that their extrication in the blood in forms difficult of elimination, or otherwise noxious, is the source of a class of diseases which, from the present habits of society, is necessarily one of the most numerous we are called * Who is there that does not enter into the feelings of these eminent men, in reading the following fervid words, in which Liebig gives an account of then- discoveries ?—" For my own part," he says, " I confess that I felt my whole nervous system thrilling, as if pervaded by an electric current, when Wohler and myself discovered that uric acid and all its products, by a simple supply of oxygen, became resolved into carbonic add and vroa, thus showing that there existed a connection between urea and uric acnd, such as had never before been dreamed of in its mfinite simplicity; when our calculation proved that allantoin, the nitrogenous constituent of the urine of the foetus of the cow, contains the elements of uric acid and urea; and when we succeeded in producing allantoin, with all its jiropertics, from uric acid. Though few words passed between us in these investigations, how often have I seen the eyes of my friend glisten with deliglit."