20 I5Y WILLIAM BUBI), M.D. In this condition it passes into M. Blondlot^s second category, which includes all substances that dissolve in gastric juice, exactly as in pure water. To this group belong liquid albumen, pectine, sugar, gum, and starch, in the form just spoken of; so that, for these substances, chymification is in reality nothing more than simple solution, in the utmost rigour of the term. This statement is, however, in several important points, at variance with the opinions of many eminent chemists. Thus, M. Dumas, reasoning probably from the extreme readiness with which sugar passes into lactic acid under the influence of animal membranes, and from the inevitable conversion of this acid, in common with organic acids in general, into carbonic acid by the action of respiration, should it find admission into the blood, was led to believe that all saccharine aliments undergo lactic fermentation in the stomach,* in order to become better fitted for the purposes of combustion. One does not see, however, what shoidd prevent sugar from sharing what would appear to be the necessaiy fate of all soluble matters, in being absorbed vnthout change; and it will be seen from the researches of Dr. Percy, that under certain conditions, and perhaps generally, it does enter the blood unaltered. As far as the production of lactic acid is concerned, M. Blondlot's statements are decided and unequivocal:—" I can affirm," he says, " that having frequently analysed the liquid pressed out of aliments that had been some time in the stomach, I have never fou.nd in it the slightest trace of lactic acida statement which derives additional weight from its entire accordance with the experience" of Dr. Prout on the same point. In regard to the question of the conversion of starch into sugar during digestion, however, these two observers are in direct opposi- tion. Dr. Prout holds that the reduction, as he terms it, of all the forms of the saccharine principle, (meaning starch and its equivalents,) is accompanied by the development of a low sugar; and the great frequency of such a transformation, in a variety of circumstances, under the influence of agencies nearly related in their character to those which play an important part in digestion, is a strong a jrriori argument in favour of the view. M. Dumas also was, until recently, of the same opinion. * Tljis notion hus since met its final nvcrtln ow iit tlic himds of Professor Liebig.