BY WILLIAM aVDD, M.D, 95 The two works under review, and especially that of liischoff,* are full of collateral matter of much interest. The impregnated ova which he found in the Fallopian tubes, had not acquired new envelopes, but were all naked, and in none was there any intima- tion of that peculiar division of the yolk, which marks the first stage of development of the impregnated ovum. He again brings foi-ward numerous observations to prove, in opposition to Dr. Martin Barry, that the vitelline membrane of this physiologist has no real existence. As an infalUble sign that the ovum is becoming ripe and ready for discharge, he mentions the di-awing out of the cells of the discusproligerus into forms approaching that of fibres; and, lastly, he states, that in animals, at least, there is no difference whatever between the corpus luteum of an unimpregnated, and that of an impregnated ovum. With this account of the recent progress of science in relation to the preparations for the development of the new being, I might, not inappropriately, close this Report. But the physiologist is no longer confined to the consideration of the phenomena that occm* within the narrow limits of Hving bodies. With the recent dis- coveries in chemistry he has extended the field of his speculation into realms that have the globe, with its atmosphere, for their narrowest boundary, and has recognised in one of the most universal powers of creation,—namely light,—the fii-st cause of all organisation. This sketch would, therefore, be very imperfect, were I to pass over without notice the speculations of the past year, touching that great interchange of matter ever going forward, in which the plant, by help of Hght, redeems back into organisation and life, for the futm-e use of the animal, the matter which the latter is constantly reducing into dead chemical forms, and casting loose into air and earth. Of these speculations, those of Professor Liebig on the sup- posed gradual defertilisation of the soil of England, claim our fii-st attention, as they concern us all so nearly. His argument may be thus briefly stated:— * Dewei.1 der von der Degattnng unabhiingiyen periodhcAen Reifimg und Loslbstwg der Eier der Sdugelhierc und dcs Mmschen.