BY WILLIAM BUUDj M.D. G5 nucleus,—iu the great radiating layers of the hemisphere, and, finally, in the processes furnished by the convex surface of these radiating layers,—^penetrate the cortical layer by their extremities at the summit of the convolutions. They represent a sort of sheaf, whose ears, only, belong to the cortical layer. The sheaf itself may be divided into a considerable number of layers placed side by side, holding by one end to the summit of the convolutions, and passing in the other direction, by a course more or less oblique, to the great radiating fibres of the internal face of the hemisphere." In addition to the details by which these cardinal relations are sought to be established, the work contains an elaborate description of the more minute and intricate fibrous connections between various parts of the brain and cerebellum; a minute account of the relations, external and internal, of the ventricles; and a very interesting study of the convolutions, in which, although there is a good deal attempted to be laid down, that seems forced and artificial, yet there is also much that is both novel and instructive. M. Foville's researches into the origin of the cerebral nerves, also, although, for reasons already assigned, they can find no place here, are made with praiseworthy care and minuteness. They deserve the greater consideration, because, from the greater sim- plicity of the inquiry, it is less open to sources of error from defect in the methods and instruments of investigation. This and other reasons inchne me to believe, that these researches will eventually be found to be the most important of M. Foville's labours. This is a branch of anatomical inquiry which has not hitherto been followed up with that constancy and perseverance which might have been expected from the rich promise it holds out to the physiologist; for, from the perfect knowledge we now possess of the functions of nerves, it is evident that in tracing them back to the particular regions from which they emanate in the central organs, we have one of the most trustworthy clues within our reach, to guide us in our inquiry into the attributes of the latter. Among the more isolated observations scattered through the work, these few remarks on the pituitary body arc worth quoting:— "That which most strikes the observer in the pituitary body, is its situation in the central part of the base of the skull, in a case lined by the dura mater, and protected by marginal folds of the same membrane.