70 IIETIIOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PUySIOLOGY, But what casts still greater doubt over the results of his observations, is the fact of their having been made, exclusively, on specimens hardened by immersion in spirit. For, in spite of the statement that he has ascertained by comparison with fresh specimens, that the ultimate anatomical elements do not suffer much change from this treatment, the contrary is known to be the case,—at least, to a sufficient extent, to render microscopic examination confused and obscm-e. The increased hardness of the tissue, to obtain which the spii-it is used, is the best of all proofs of a material chemical change. It is to be hoped, however, that the evidence of obseiTations, the greater part of which are at once so novel, and of such great physiological interest, will soon be examined anew by other ana- tomists, and under more varied modes of investigation. Hannover's researches ai'e, as far as the brain and spinal cord are concerned, of a more elementary kind. Like other observers, he finds that these structures are made vxp of two ultimate ana- tomical elements,—nucleated cells and fibres. Cells are present in both wherever the substance of these structures is not white, but in the purely white matter not one can be found. They vary much in size in different parts, are generally round, often oval, sometimes triangular, or with one end drawn out into a point, while the other is rounded. He does not describe any differences between the cells of the brain and those of the spinal cord. In both, they are often seen, giving origin to fibres. He speaks very positively as to this fact; gives nximerous di-awings of it, and, indeed, seems to be of opinion that aU the fibres of the brain, at least, originate from cells. In the layer of white matter that has already been mentioned in another page, as forming the outermost layer of the convolutions, the fibres run parallel to the sui-face; but in the interior of the brain they pass from the convolutions to the base, and have, therefore, for the most part, a perpendicular direction. Nimibers diverge into the cerebral nerves, while others proceed downwards, to form the cord. In direct contradiction to Dr. Stilling, Hannover states that the longitudinal fibres of the cord emerge in bundles to form the roots of the nerves, which are, in fact, according to him, continuations of them. In thus becoming nerve-fibres they offer no appreciable change of appearance.