RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 64 that of the vessels. Thus, according to this view, four layers of white and three of grey matter constitute, by their assemblage, the cortical membrane of the convolutions of the brain and of the lamellae of the cerebellum." This account would seem to agree pretty well with Hannover's statement, that in the layer of white substance immediately below the grey, the fibres run parallel to the surface; unless, however, this should be found to apply to other fibres from the central mesh already described, which, in certain regions, also follow a horizontal coiu'se. In the cerebellum, the analogue of the white membrane here described as lining the convolutions of the brain on the inside, is formed, according to M. Foville, by a membranous expansion, chiefly and jointly furnished by the roots of the seventh, or auditory, and fifth pau's of nerves. This expansion, he says, spreads itself out fi'om the very sulbstance of these nerves, in the same way as the retina from the optic nerve, and it lines the whole extent of the cortical layer of the cerebellum, in the same way as the retina lines the globe of the eye. This, again, is one of the most remarkable results of M. Foville's labours, and, if found to be true, cannot fail to prove one of the highest possible interest in the physiology of these structures. In concluding his account of the anatomy of the brain, he thus sums up the principal relations here passed in review:— " By its circumference, therefore, the cortical layer is attached to the cerebral nerves and to the posterior column of the cord, and the elements it receives from these nerves and fi-om this column, are continued over its whole extent. " In its central parts this same cortical layer is penetrated from within outwards by fibres, which are continuous with the anterior column of the cord. The manner in which these latter fibres are combined with the cortical layer, is difierent from the mode of combination between this same layer and the fibrous elements it derives from the posterior column. " These last spread themselves out into membranes of extreme tenuity over the whole extent of the cortical layer. Of this layer they are constituent elements. " The parts derived from the fasciculated region of the peduncle, after having undergone all their transformations in the central