RETKOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 30 M. Blondlot, on the other hand, denies the fact in the most unequivocal terms; and after remarking that MM. Sandras and Bouchardat have positively ascertained, by means of M. Biot's delicate instrument, that sugar is never formed in the stomach in the healthy state, he adds for himself, that he has sought, in vain, for this principle in starch that had been submitted for many hours to the action of gastric juice, whether within the stomach or at an artificial temperatm-e without. The author, however, actually records but one experiment of the kind, and that one cannot be considered decisive, as it appears to have been made on fecula, or raw starch, a form in which, as we have already seen, the true starch is, in a great measure, protected from change by the capsiile in which it is inclosed. This is not the state in which it is generally present in the stomach of man and animals; for here it is, for the most part, found liberated in a soluble form, whether by trituration or previous cooking. I do not know whether or not the same objection apphes to the investigations of MM. Sandras and Bouchardat, but it is much to be regretted that M. Blondlot did not avail himself of his unhmited opportunities to make experiments on a larger scale, and on starch in a state of solution. This is a question which it is highly desirable to have finally settled, since, besides involving a cardinal point in the theory of digestion, it derives additional and pecuhar interest from its intimate connection with the pathology of diabetes. I now pass on to M. Blondlot^s third and last category. This comprises those substances, on which the solvent action of the gastric juice is as nothing, or nearly so, but which, under its influence, lose their cohesion, and are broken down into a molecular pulp. On some of these this effect appears to be produced merely by the acid of the gastric juice, and has nothing special in it. Such are the fleshy parts of fruits and succulent roots. For the others the change is of a special kind, and consists, in a pecuhar disintegration of the aliment, by the gastric juice acting in its specific capacity. Among these substances he numbers fibrine, animal and vegetable albumen in the concrete state, caseine hardened by heat, matters that furnish gelatine, and, finally, gelatine itself—in short, putting out the last, the great group of proteine comjiounds, out of which tlic blood and tissues arc made.