55 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. and oxygen, which alike have the property of communicating an arterial colour to venous blood, have this cflPect in common: that both, namely, impress a very marked bi-concave form ou the blood- corpuscle; whereas, water and carbonic acid, which give a dark hue to blood, cause the corpuscle to swell out and become bi-convex. That the colom- of arterial blood is not the effect of mere chemical change in the colom-ing matter in consequence of its uniting with oxygen, would appear from the fact, that if a stream of oxygen be passed through venous blood previously diluted with water, no change of colour ensues, but the fluid remains dark as before. The same is the case if, instead of oxygen, salts be added to the diluted fluidj the reason being, according to the author, that the blood-corpuscles retain the globular form in consequence of their having imbibed water by endosmosis. In conclusion, he points out some other conditions, which probably have a share in causing the change of colour which the blood undergoes in its passage through the lungs. The next observations that claim our attention are taken from a monograph by E. Horn, and relate chiefly to the genesis of the blood, and especially to the relationship which its various corpuscles bear to one another.* The lymph-corpuscles he regards as the true development-ceUs of this fluid; he finds them extremely abundant in blood taken about an hour after a meal, as also in the blood of pregnant women. The coloured corpuscles are, according to the author, the immediate offspring of these. In the course of development each lymph-corpuscle becomes a parent cell, containing a progeny of several smaller ones, these last being the embryo state of the colom'ed corpuscle. These observations agree, in the main, with some formerly published by Dr. Martin Barry, and, according to Valentin, they have also been confirmed by Remak. Besides these two kinds of corpuscle, Horn describes, under the name of nucleated cells, other bodies of round or oval shape, and from two to four times smaller than the developed blood-corpuscle. These bodies are exceedingly numerous in the blood of birds, amphibia, and fish, but less so in that of mammals. * Das Leben des Blutesund die Gesetze des Kreislavfes, nac/i neuen Untersi(rhvngcn bearheitet, Wurzburg. See also Valentin's Repertot *ium for 1844, from which tho account in the text ia taken.