BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 99 peculiar interest at the present time. The fact naturally leads us to the last subiect to be treated of here, namely, the influence of light on vegetation. Among the many important investigations lately made in this matter, those by Dr. Draper have the most interest, in relation to the point under consideration. This distin- guished observer justly remarks, that the investigation of the decomposition of carbonic acid by leaves has, by its connection with modern chemistry and physiology, acquired extraordinary interest. For, if we bear in mind, that this decomposition is the stai'ting point of the organisation of dead matter; that, with this agency of leaves, the series of organic atoms begins, which becoming more and more complicated as they pass through the plant, finally end in flesh, blood, and nervous matter; it is evident that correct views on this first conversion must be of no common importance. Now, Dr. Draper has shown by accm'ate experiments, and in opposition to what might have been sm'mised, that the elements of the spectrum concerned in this agency, are not the heating, nor the chemical, or, as he calls them, the "tithonic," rays,—for the help which these give is quite insignificant,—but the rays of highest illuminating power. That it is light, itself, in fact, in the common acceptation of the term, that is the great creative power. It would lead me too far from the scope and objects of this Report, to pass in review the kindred researches of Herschel, Melloni, Talbot, Hunt, and others. Sufiice it to remark, that at this point physiology connects itself with the most beautiful investigations of our time,—investigations from which will date a new era in physics, and which, in the discovery, in the sunbeam, of agencies so widely differing in their sensible qualities, and in the natiu-e of their efi'ects, but yet identified by common pro])ertics of refraction and polarisation, already seem to point to that great consummation, which the most eminent philosophers of modern times have ever anticipated as the ultimate and highest general- isation of science—namely, the blending all the imponderable agencies of the universe into one essence. Wliat sublime views here open before us! Already a beautiful truth broke upon our minds, in the discovery, by Dr. Draper, that the same agent which brings in its beams the witness, at once.