BY Wri.LlAM KUDU, M.D. 49 which the limbs themselves exhibit in their extremes of develop- ment and leanness; a practised eye cannot be deceived in it. " These variations in form and volume do not, however, suffice to prove that the cerebro-spinal system contains more or less fat, according to similar variations in the general plumpness; but we may easily obtain direct proof of this, by suspending in a vessel filled with spirit, the brain and spinal cord of a robust and fat man, killed by accident; and in a similar vessel, likewise tilled with spirit, the same organs of a man dead of emaciation. " In the course of two or three days, the whole siu-face of the former will be found covered with fat in crystalline needles, which become so abundant as entirely to hide the structure beneath. In the other vessel, nothing of the kind occurs, as water is the only principle the nervous mass it contains yields to the spirit." After making the interesting remark, that the brain of the cetacea so aboimds in fat as to float in water, M. Foville adds— " That very often the peculiar aspect of the brain of aged men is due to emaciation; but that this must not, however, be confounded with the senile or morbid atrophy of this organ, and w^hich has its own characters."* But by far the most interesting i-esult of M. Chossat's investi- gations—to which I now return—is that which show^s that the immediate cause of death from starvation, is the failure of animal heat. This is a fact which has many important practical applica- tions in the treatment of febrile diseases of long duration; but even in this fact there is nothing that might not have been strictly deduced as a logical inference, from the known chemical relations of food to respiration; nothing indeed that had not already been clearly laid down in principle, and almost in so many words, in various chemical works in which these questions are considered. In support of this statement I may confidently appeal, more especially to Liebig's work already quoted, and to various parts of M. Dumas' paper on " Neutral Azotised Matters," of which an analysis has already been given in these pages.f After these remarks, I need scarcely add that I am at a loss to know on what scientific grounds the French Academy thought fit * Traite complet du Syst^e Nerveiix Cerebro-sjihwl, p)). 120 ct seq.; M. Foville, 1844. t " Menioiies de Chiinic," see particularly pp. .'Mn-H.