66 RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, " The pituitary body is by its situation, and by the structm-e of the walls of its case, more protected from injury than any other part of the brain. An organ which nature has placed in such conditions ought, by the fact, to be an organ of great importance/' The author adds in a note, that having made numerous observations on the state of this body, it has often appeared to him diseased. The leading impression left on the mind by an attentive study of M. Foville's work is, that in relation to the more minute and .intricate parts of this anatomy, his methods are gross and coarse when viewed in connection with the known minuteness of the objects, and the extreme softness and delicacy of the tissue under investigation. These methods are not of a character to satisfy the requirements of anatomists of the present day, with their recent acquirement in the microscope in its present perfect state, of what may almost be called a new sense, and with their more enlarged basis of inquiry. What we have already learnt of the anatomy of nervous tissue by these means, is sufficient to show, not only that such, procedures as those employed by M. Foville must, in a vast number of cases, be quite inadequate to lay open the true elementary relations of structui'e, but that they must often do violence to connections of perhaps the first importance, and thus lead us into serious error. This is a conclusion which may be dra-mi mth absolute certainty from our present knowledge. I trust, however, that in the observations I am here making, I shall not be misunderstood. It must not be lost sight of, that we here have the fruit of twenty years' labour, bestowed upon a favourite subject, and with a degree of constancy and devotion but too rare in these days;—by an observer, too, of remarkable talent, a practical and skilful anatomist, and having unlimited opportu- nities at command. We can scarcely estimate too highly the claims on our favour and attention which these circumstances bespeak for them. Whatever may be the ultimate fate of these researches,—whether to take a permanent place in the science, or to give way to the results of more intimate and searching methods,— no one can refuse to admit that they form a large and valuable contribution to our knowledge. But highly as we may estimate these researches as a whole, it is requisite, for the interests of science, to add, that, for reasons already assigned, we cannot show too much caution in admitting any demonstrations of the more