llETKOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 33 comprise fat and proteine compounds, enter the system through the lacteals, while those held in solution, such as sugar and its equivalents, are taken up by the veins. As far as the general doctrine is concerned, he is probably right in this, since these are, undoubtedly, the channels through which the dissolved and the undissolved products of digestion severally enter the economy. But the most startling statement in M. Blondlot's book is the assertion, in direct contradiction to Prout, Liebig, Gmelin, and a host of other eminent observers, that the gastric juice contains no muriatic acid. The experiments on which this assertion is founded, if exactly performed and rightly intei-preted, would cer- tainly be conclusive as to the fact; but there, sui-ely, must be some fallacy here. It is difficult to admit on the faith of the observations of a single individual, however precise these observa- tions may seem to be, that so many eminent chemists have been mistaken as to a fact so easy of determination. If it were really true that the gastric juice contains no muriatic acid, what a tissue of fine theories on the uses of common salt in the economy— giving, by decomposition, muriatic acid to the stomach, and soda to the bile, &c.—would at once vanish into an". According to M. Blondlot, the true acid of the gastric juice is phosphoric acid; not free, however, but in combination, as an acid phosphate of lime. His inquiries as to the precise part which the different constituents of the gastric juice severally play in the digestive process, offer nothing sufficiently novel to requii-e quota- tion or comment. As far as they go they confirm, in all fundamental points, the results arrived at by other physiologists. The following observations on agents that promote the secretion of gastric juice are of more interest, and may not be without practical value. After speaking of the effect of mechanical irritation, he says:— " Chemical agents applied to the surface of the stomach, when its internal tunic has become turgid under the influence of food, have still more marked effects. Thus it has often ha]Dpened to me, to render the flow of gastric juice much more rapid and abundant, in rolling the morsels of flesh I gave to my dogs in powdered pepper, in sugar, salt, magnesia, (usta,) carbonate of potash, &c. Daily observation shows that these substances favoiu' digestion, and everything inclines us to believe that they do so in increasing the secretion of gastric juice, just as they do that of the saliva, j)an-