RliTUOSPKCT OF AXATO.UY AXD PHYSIOI.OGT, 44. OH to the consideration of the vaiious proportions in which theae materials contribute to it, and of the phenomena which occur wlien this waste is no longer repaired by supplies of food. M. Chossat, a French physiologist, has lately undertaken to elucidate this subject by experiments, on a large scale. His plan was simply to starve a great number of animals to death, by partial or total privation of food, and to make accurate record, from day to day, of the principal phenomena that occurred in the course of the process. The results thus obtained are given in a work entitled, Recherches Experimentales sur I'Inanition; a work which appears to have gained great credit for the author in France, the Institute having conferred upon it the very high distinction of a Monthyon prize. To us, however, it appears at first sight as nothing less than wanton cruelty of the worst kind, to starve animals to death merely to have an opportunity of observing the phenomena of inanition, when these phenomena are, unfortunately', daily exhibited to us on a large scale, in the effects of a variety of wasting diseases, and, though more rarely, yet in all the simplicity of experiment, by the accidents of famine, shipwreck, and other forms of human calamity. Let us see whether or not there is anything in M. Chossat's results to lead us to abate the rigour of this first impression; whether the importance of the end be such as to justify the means. The phenomena which engaged M. Chossat^s chief attention were those which have reference to weight and temperatm-e. As his victims were weighed every day, once at least, and at the same houi', he was enabled to ascertain very exactly the rate of dim-nal upon the presence of alkaline phosphates or not. We shall be able to determine whether weak solutions of alkaline phosphates are not tlie best solvents for uric acid deposited in the bladder, and likewise, what is the influence wliich aliments rich in sulphur, such as mustard, for instance, exercise ujiou the separation of uric acid in the bladder, in consequence of the formation of sulphuric acid. At any rate we may, by a judiciously selected diet, alter, with positive certainty and at pleasure, the nature of the urine; we may, without causing any injm-y to health, keep it alkaline for a long time by adopting a vegetable diet, and this is, certainly, the first condition necessary to insure the entire prevention of the formation of uric acid, as is the case with the herbivorous animals. By its combination with an alkaline base, uric acid must, in the organism, resolve itself into its ultimate oxygen com])ounds, with the same facility as other organic acids, if the physician jirohibit all substances to be taken as food, which, like wine or fat, take possession of the oxygen necessary for the transformation of uric acid into carbonic acid anil urea.''