RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 14 upon to treat. But, if it be true that these principles are products of oxidation, and the fact admits of no doubt, it is easy to determine, with sufficient exactness, the conditions on which these variations depend. Where the weight of the body remains nearly constant, they must essentially consist in the amount and quality of nutritive materials absorbed, on the one hand, and on the volume of oxygen inspired on the other—conditions which, in the shape of diet, air, and exercise, the practitioner has largely under his control The great efficacy of a judicious regulation of tbese is practically known to us all, and sucb regulation forms a large part of all rational medicine. But it may still fui*ther enhance the value of these means in our eyes, to form a clear idea of the direct and certain power they give us, in availing ourselves of the natui'al resources of the living economy, of cutting at the root of numerous grave disorders, by altering the very form of the material cause on which they depend. We look in vain for such a power in the action of drugs, which, therefore, provide no substitute for it. These considerations naturally lead us to the researches of Mulder,* on the oxidation of proteine. The pith of these researches lies in a very small compass. This chemist fijids that fibrine, on being boiled in water in the open air, gi-adually absorbs oxygen. The result of this is the formation of two new products, one of which is freely soluble in water, the other insoluble. These products differ from proteine, in the former containing three, and the latter two more equivalents of oxygen than this body. It was simply to express this relation, and without Tvdshing to attach any other significance to the terms, that Mulder named these products, respectively, tri-oxy, and bi-oxy-proteine,—names, however, which seem very ill-chosen. Bi-oxy-proteine on being further boiled, with exposure to air, becomes, in the end, wholly converted into tri-oxy-proteine by the absorption of another equivalent of oxygen. By treating albumen in the same way as fibrine, the tri-oxy- proteine is formed at once, without passing through the inter- mediate stage. Mulder also finds these products in minute quantity in normal * Journal fur Praklkche C/icmie; Erdmann and Marclwud, IMarz 18, 1844.