BV WlLl.lAM BUDD, M.U. 61 The decussation which M. Foville describes as taking place between the anterior cohmnis of the eord^ through the whole length of this structure, has already been spoken of. In addition to this, it is only necessary to state that, with most other anatomists, he divides the cord into three principal fasciculi,—the anterior, lateral, and posterioi",—each giving origin to its own particu^lar class of nerves; those from the posterior being exclusively sensory, those from the anterior exclusively motor. It is right, however, to add, that those who will take the trouble to consult the work itself, will find in it a most accurate description of the cord in its external form and relations, and, as far as the methods of the author carry him, a most minute and elaborate investigation into the connections of its white and grey elements; into the form and direction of its commissm*es, and the ultimate relations of the roots of the nerves to these several parts. It is evident from the details into which the author enters, that he must have spent a vast deal of time and labom- on this investigation, and must have subjected a countless number of specimens to careful and various examination. Touching the general idea to be formed of the brain and cerebellum, the most prominent view put forward by M. Foville,— and it is evidently one to which he attaches great importance, as it is brought up again and again in the course of the work,—is, that these sti-uctures are to be considered as the ganglia of the nerves of special sense. He describes himself as originally indebted for this idea to M. de Blainville, who has long taught that the brain and cerebellum are to be looked upon as ganglia; differing from ganglia in general, however, in being without external apparatus. {Sans appareil exterieur.) But, in this particular, M. Foville regards M. de Blainville as fundamentally wrong; and he labours to show that the anatomical relations of these ganglia to the nerves of special sense are, in all essential conditions, perfectly analogous to those of the ganglia of the sensitive roots to the spinal nerves; that, like these, the nerves of special sense, also, arise from the central nervous axis by two roots, and that it is on one of these roots only that these ganglionic enlargements are developed. I must refer to the work itself for the anatomical evidence on which this view is sought to be established. As to the originality of the idea, it is one that, in slightly