72 RETROSPECT OI' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOOY, time yet, continue to be a move searching and intimate exponent of structure, than any to be found in our present methods of direct examination. In the new memoir on the Nervous System, by the author just named, there is not much to justify the title. With a good deal of old matter in a new dress, there are to be found a few novel remarks and suggestions of great interest; while through the whole we have continual occasion to admire that clearness and originality of thought, and that matchless ingenuity, which communicate a never-failing interest to all the productions of this distinguished physiologist, and may well give us cause to pardon occasional repetitions. The following remarks on the functions of the medulla oblongata, although not strictly original, have much interest at the present time:— " I have mentioned that the cerebral system is the seat of the emotions, passions, and sensations. This part of the nervous system seems, indeed, to be the precise point where the psychical and physical functions are combined; the cerebrum being otherwise the exclusive organ of the former, the true spinal marrow of the latter. When the cerebrum and cerebellum are removed, and with these all perception, volition, &c., there is still the unequivocal expression of pain, when any part naturally endowed with great sensibility is forcibly seized with the forceps."* After quoting the well-known experiments of M. Flom-ens, on this jiai't of the nei-vous system, he adds:— " The medulla oblongata seems, therefore, to be the central organ both of psychical and excito-motor phenomena, and to differ from the cerebrum in possessing the latter faculty, and from the spinal marrow in possessing the former. It is like certain nerves, mixed in its functions, and the common boundary of the cerebral and true spinal systems inclusive. It is probably by irritating the medulla oblongata that tumours in the median lobe of the cere- bellum excite the sexual faculty and organs."t But the chief interest of the memoir consists in the beautiful and complete demonstration it gives of the pm-ely reflex character of the respiratory acts. In none of the former productions of this, or any other * Op. cif., pp. .33, 3<, 35. t Op. cii., p. 51.