BY WILLIAM BUDD^ M.D. r That this combustion should be the source of animal heat, is simple enough J that it should bear a direct and essential relation to the creation of mechanical force, in such sort, that the latter may be—to use the word in its mathematical sense—a function of the former, is what, from the numerous analogies in nature, we may well conceive, though the intermediate mechanism be as yet concealed from us; but that this mere chemical change should be equally, and as incessantly essential to the manifestation of the functions of mind, is a fact which must ever remain a mystery to us. But what fact so strikingly asserts the claims of organic chemistry upon oui* attention, and the deep and intimate relations it bears to the most subtle phenomena of life. But if its claims on our attention be thus great, not less are those on our confidence, which its methods of investigation warrant. For all its problems are, in the last resort, resolved by the balance;—^tbat severe and impartial instrument, whose introduction into chemical investigation by Lavoisier has changed the whole face of science, and which, appealing as it does to the most unalterable attribute of matter, deserves on that account a degree of confidence in its indications which few other methods of investigation justify.* I have premised these few considerations, partly, because they appear to me, in some measure, called for by the present unsettled state of opinion on these subjects among professional men; but still more, because they put in a clear view the motives that have guided me in the division of my subject, and furnish my best justification for having given more space and detail to one branch of it than many might think required by its importance. This division, I need scarcely add, is that already suggested by the passage I have quoted from Cuvier, and has reference to the great movement of * " It was not lightly," says Dumas, in his admirable Lectures on ihe Philosopht/ of Chemistrij, " that Lavoisier made choice of this instrument. In this choice he ■was guided by a new and profound thought. For him all the phenomena of chemisti'y were due to displacements of matter, to the union and separation of different bodies. Nothing is lost, nothing is created: this was his motto, this his thought; and in the very first application of it he did away, for ever, with a great error." It was the absence of this thought which limited the discoveries of Priestley, brilliant as they were, in their influence on chemical philosophy. " Without doubt," says the same eloquent teacher, " Priestley was ill prepared to work a revolution in natural philosophy; but with his singular penetration, and with his felicitous art of taking advantage of every chance observation, he would probably have done so, had he only had the idea to endow himself with one instrument more."