BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 21 1. That hay contains more fatty matter than the milk it serves to form; and that the same is the case with tlie other kinds of food on which cows and asses are kept. 2. That oil-cake increases the production of butter, but some- times renders it more fluid, and may also give to it the taste of oil of grains, when this article enters too largely into the daily ration. 3. That the very fattening quality of maize is a result of the large quantity of oil it contains. 4. That there exists the most complete analogy between the production of milk and the fattening of cattle, as graziers had already surmised. 5. That the grazing ox, however, appropriates for man's use less, both of fatty and azotized matter, than the milch cow; and that the latter, therefore, in an economical point of vieM', is greatly to be preferred, if the object be to convert a pasture into produgts useful to man. 6. That the potato, beet, and carrot fatten only when associated with other products containing fatty matters, as straw, to wit, or bran and oil-cake. 7. That, for equal weights, gluten mixed mth starch, and flesh rich in fat, have, for the pig, a fattening power which difi"ers in the ratio of 1:2. In conclusion, the authors argue that these results fully bear out theii- doctrine, that animals derive their fatty matters, ready made, from plants; and that the old opinion, that they form these matters anew out of other principles, remains a gratuitous supposition without foundation in facts.* It will at once be seen, however, that these results do not suffi- ciently warrant such a conclusion, and that they by no means definitively settle the great question touching the origin of fat in * I regret that I have not space for the many important obsei-vations with which this memoir is interspersed. I cannot forbear, however, from quoting one wliich I am sure will interest those country practitioners who avail themselves of the delightful privilege their position gives them, of finding relief from the cares and anxieties of their profession in the more serene occupations of farming. Ilie fact to which I allude is this, that it appears, as the result of unimjieachable experiments, that the milch cow appropriates, for man's profit, a quantity of alimentary matter, which may more than double that withdrawn by the grazing ox from the same pasture; whence it follows, as the authors well remark, that whatever may tend to place the milk market on a footing entitled to public confidence is, in the highest degree, worthy of an intelligent administration. C