BY WII.IJAM BUDU, M.D. 0 no small labour. lu that of anatomy and physiology, indeed, it may be questioned how far still further division might not be of advantage; for the character of the investigations now made into the phenomena of life is so various and minute, and the record of them is made public in so many different languages, that to give a critical view of the whole—and such alone is of any great value— demands a combination of acquirements rarely to be met with in a single indi\ddual. For my own part, I have painfully felt, in many particulars, my own want of the necessary qualifications for the task. To be consistent, too, this, the pure science of our profession, should have been placed in the hands of a professed physiologist, and not in those of a practitioner; and this for many reasons. To enter with confidence on a subject of such scope and difficulty; to fathom the various and profound questions which the record of even one year's progress raises for discussion, had required much sustained thought in calm and retu-ement. How utterly impossible it is to realise this, amid the incessant interruptions to which those engaged in the active duties of our profession are so peculiarly liable, is, practically, kno^vn to you all. Highly as I estimate the honour of being appointed to this office of being yom* annalist for the year in this most important branch of om- studies, it would have been unpardonable in me to undertake it, had I not knovra that, perhaps, the majority of the members of this Association might plead these same obstructions; and many, probably, with still greater force. I trust, however, that they will not the less be admitted as a claim for your kind indulgence for the many imperfections of my work. But, it is time to enter on my subject. Cuvier, in a fine passage in the Regne Animal, thus attempts to defme it:— " Life," he says, " is a vortex, more or less rapid, more or less complex, whose direction is constant, and which ever bears along molecules of the same kind; but in which individual molecules are ever entering in and passing out, in such sort, that the form of the living body is more essential to it than its matter" This passage sums up, in lucid statement, the two fundamental conditions of animal life that lie open to observation;—to wit, chemical change, and a specific form. These two conditions, under the heads of animal chemistry, and structural anatomy, are now B