niiTllOSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 96 The tissues of all animals are, it is well known, ultimately derived from plants. Plants must, therefore, contain, as essential constituents, the inorganic elements, as they are called, which are necessary to animal bodies. These elements are, again, derived from the soilj but analysis has shown that, here, their supply is limited. To maintain the fertility of the soil, therefore, and restore the balance, need must be, that the animal returns to the earth the whole amount of these elements which the plant has taken fi'om it. The elements thus limited in their supply are, it is scarcely necessary to remark, the phosphates. Now, Professor Liebig argues, and the fact cannot be gainsaid, that in effect of their domestic arrangements, the English annually waste into the sea a vast amount of these phosphates. In this he foresees, unless remedy be applied, the gradual defertilisation of our land, already to be discerned, he says, in the barrenness of numerous large tracts, that were once kuovra to reward the toil of the husbandman with an abundant harvest. Of course, these remarks do not apply to the great extent of waste land, which has never yet been brought into sufficient cultivation to yield food for cattle. In these, he admits, we still have a large som-ce in reserve. In regard to these views, the first thing that strikes one is, that they seem very like an impeachment of the wisdom, of Providence. That the fertility of a whole country, and the welfare of a vast people, should be made contingent on the practices which this people might adopt to ensm-e cleanliness, does not look like that self-acting compensation—those beneficent provisions for the maintenance of life, which om- investigations have, hitherto, everywhere disclosed to us in the great scheme of animated natm-e. And although arguments from final causes are unsafe guides, and are inadmissible as substitutes for direct evidence, in dealing with scientific questions, they at least requii-e that the evidence of conclusions that stand in striking opposition to them, should be well sifted. In the present case, it will be found, on further examination, that Liebig has over-rated our danger, and, in particular, that he has not taken into account the various channels through which the ocean is made to give back her tribute. Nothing is said of the enormous weight of fish eaten every year by the inhabitants