91 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. templating it as a vital endowiueut, common to the whole animal kingdom indeed, but peculiar to it. But in the electric fish we have a case, in which the purely physical nature of the agent declares itself to sense, and has been made the object of experi- mental proof. Sui-ely this is an instance of contact between the immaterial and the material—of submission of physical agency to psychical power, wonderful to contemplate. May it not be viewed, without profaneness, as a symbol, humble, indeed, but distinct and, for that reason, valuable, of that entire submission to an Infinite Will, which reason and revelation alike teach us, is the condition of the powers of the universe. The chief physiological interest of the subject consists, precisely, in the limitation of this extraordinary power to so few creatures. Here, for the fii'st time in the animal kingdom, the physiologist meets with an anomaly, where no true anomalies are known; with the introduction of a new element, where all elements are in common; with a break in a chain whose every link is perfect. Without fui-ther inquiry, his mind revolts at the conclusion, and refuses the fact. And presently, and more and more as he dwells upon it, the conviction becomes pressing, that this must be only some other mode of manifestation of a power possessed by animals in common, and of whose nature it may thus become the exponent. And he is not slow to mark the numerous and deep-seated analogies which point to such a power in muscular contraction. In both, we find the same contact with the will, established by nerves, and subject to interruption by injury to, or division of, these; and, what is of deeper significance still, by nei-ves from the self-same anatomical tract. In both, the function is exalted bij strychnia and like agents, and depressed by agents of opposite efi"ect. In both, the exercise of function is followed by the same general exhaustion of nervous power, and, to each function, of its own force, requiring for the joint exercise of these rest and a supply of food; and, lastly, to the maintenance and full exercise of both, free respiration is, alike, essential. Surely, these numerous and deeply significant relations bespeak something more than a superficial analogy. In particular, who can reflect on the intimate and perfectly equivalent relations of these two agencies to the nervous system, and fail to see that we are here upon the verge of discovery.