15 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. blood, but in much larger proportion in the bufFy coat, and in recent false membranes. He even asserts that the buffy coat contains no true fibrine, but is entirely made up of a compound of these two bodies. Does it not seem from this extremely probable, that the colourless corpuscles which so abound in inflammatory blood, and about which Dr. Cai-penter and Mr. "V^Hiarton Jones are now waging war, may be nothing more than this so-called bi-oxy-proteine. According to Mulder, the substance which Bouchardat obtained from the bufFy coat, and which that chemist mistook for gelatine, is, in fact, tri-oxy-proteine. In accordance with this view, it will be remembered that Bouchardat obtained this substance, in large proportion from the buffy coat, but only in very minute quantity from healthy blood. But Mulder has also ascertained, by ultimate analysis, that it is perfectly identical in composition with the tri-oxy-proteine, obtained by boiling fibrine in water in the open air. From this series of facts the author considers himself entitled to di'aw the following conclusions:— 1. "That, on exposure to air, proteine suffers oxidation at the temperature of the living body.* 2. " That this action is constantly going on in the lungs, at the expense of the fibrine of the blood. 3. "That the proteine thus oxidised is the principal, if not the only bearer of oxygen to the rest of the economy; and in support of this he argues, that the hsematosine of the blood, from its small mass, cannot possibly suffice to absorb the large volume of oxygen taken into the body. 4. "That inflamed blood contains a much larger amount of oxidised proteine than normal blood, and, in fact, that the normal and inflammatory conditions differ chiefly in this circumstance; from which the author infers, that every cause which accelerates the breathing and the circulation, tends to bring on an inflammatory condition; and hence the readiness with which inflammation is set up in various febrile disorders, &c." This last statement, as to the existence of a larger quantity of * Scheerer has shown, that at common temperatures moist fibrine absorbs oxygen largely.—Annalen der Pharmacic, Bd. xi., S. 13. See also his Mikroscopische und Cheinische Untersuchungm.