93 BY WILLIAM BVDD, M.D. fish require rest and abundant nourishment, in order to produce or accumulate a large quantity of electricity."* M. Matteuci appears to have felt the force of the various relations sought to be unfolded in the preceding pages; and they are presented in a condensed form in his book^ in a, table drawn up by M. de Blainville. The work, or rather M. Matteuci's part of it, closes with a philosophical discussion on the relations of electricity to the nervous force. In this discussion, so far from showing any imdue bias to physical views,—which we might naturally have expected from the nature of his pursuits, and for which this might well excuse him,—he goes so far as to declare, that not only can no evidence of an electric ciuTent be detected in nerves, but that with a knowledge of the properties at present assigned to electricity, and of its established laws of propagation, it is impossible to conceive such a current to be confined within the limits of a nerve. Having stated thus much, however, he adds, as the final result of all his meditations on the subject, that there does exist between electricity and the unknown force of the nervous system, an analogy, which, if not of the same degree of evidence, is never- * All facts that put broadly and prominently fonvard the great and fundamental relation between the consumption of material, and the various forms of force, which animals have at their command, are of uncommon interest in the present state of speculation. The passage quoted in the text always struck me as being peculiarly interesting in that point of view. The foUowing principles, laid down with such admirable clearness by Faraday, in his discussion of the contact theory of galvanic force, apply with the same strictness to these relations:— " The contact theory," he says, " assumes, in fact, that a force which is able to overcome powerful resistance, as, for instance, that of the conductors, good or bad, through which the current passes, and that, again, of the electrolytic action where bodies are decomposed by it, can arise out of nothing. T/tat, wii/iotci any change in the acting matter, or the consumption of any generating force, a current can be produced, which shall go on for ever against a constant resistance, or only be stopped, as in the voltaic trough, by the ruins which its exertion has heaped up in its own course. This would indeed be a creation of power, and is like no other force in nature. We have many processes by which the form of the power may be so changed, that an apjiarent conversion of one into the other takes place. So we can change chemical force mto the electric current, or the current into chemical force. The beautiful experiments of Seebeck and Peltier show the convertibility of heat and electricity ; and others, by Oersted and myself, show the convertibility of electricity and magnetism. But in no cases, not even those of the gymnotus and torpedo, is there a pure creation of force, a production of ]iower, without a corresponding exhaustion of something to supply it."