8 RETROSPECT 01" ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, matter through the living body, on the one hand, and to the organised forms and the actions of this matter in the sense of vital functions, on the other; in other vi^ords, it is the now familiar division into organic chemistry and structural anatomy, looking upon function as the result of their mutual relations. I shall begin with recording the progress of the former. Although the past year has not been so prolific in new and comprehensive principles as the years immediately preceding, its contributions are by no means few nor unimportant. Numerous original investigations, of great value in particular departments, have been made public; and the novel views with which Liebig, Dumas, and other eminent chemists, have lately startled and so deeply interested the public mind, have received much interesting illustration and development, together, also, with some con-ection. The first in rank and importance, in both points of view, stands the admirable series of papers on "Aliments and their Transforma- tions," by Dumas and his fellow labourers. Two of these had appeared in the previous year, in the Records of the Academy of Sciences; but their recent publication, in a separate volume, (the admirable Memoires de Chimie of Dumas,) and the circumstance of their not having been noticed in any of our former reports, give me the opportunity of passing them in review. In the paper on the " Neutral Azotised Matters of Organised Bodies," by MM. Dumas and Cahom-s, the aiithors set out by stating that in an Essay on Physiological Chemistry, published eighteen months before, by the former and M. Boussingault,* it was laid down in principle,—that albumen, caseine, and fibrine, exist as such in plants; that they pass, ready formed, into the bodies of herbivora, and through these into those of the carnivora; but that plants alone have the power to fabricate these three products, which animals afterwards appropriate, whether to assimilate or consume, according to the needs of their life; and, fiu'ther, in the same essay it was held, that these same principles might be extended to fatty bodies, which, according to this doctrine, originate wholly in plants, and come to play in animals the part of matter for com- bustion, or to be temporarily laid up in the tissues. * Chimie SIniiqve des E/ret Orffonixpit.