26 RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, accident, has already been fruitful of valuable results. Taking the hint from the now celebrated case of St. Martin, M. Blondlot con- ceived the idea of forming, by operation, fistulous openings in the stomachs of dogs. After many fruitless attempts he completely succeeded in two young dogs, and made the opening permanent in each, by fixing a silver canula in it. One of these dogs is still alive and in his possession, and although for two years past M. Blondlot has continued to make use of the fistula for procuring gastric juice and chyme, and for introducing thermometers, tubes, and sounds into the stomach, the dog does not the less remain in perfect health. Not only has it completed its growth, but it has grovra fat, Uvely and alert, and enjoys an excellent appetite. With these opportunities, alike favourable for observation and experiment, M. Blondlot continued his researches on the pheno- mena of digestion, for a long period. It will greatly simplify my task of giving an abstract of them, if I state at once that one of the chief conclusions to which they have led him is, that neither the saliva nor the bile take any essential part, whether in the process of digestion or in that of chylification. The chief ofiice of the saliva is, he asserts, mechanical, and intended merely to facilitate the acts of mastication and swallowing. He has found, by repeated experiment, that in the digestion of whatever kind of food, in gastric juice out of the body, the addition of saliva never accelerates the process in the slightest degree. These statements are in entire accordance with the observations of Berzelius and Dr. Beaumont; and although so widely at variance with the more recent and elaborate researches of Dr. Wright, there are many and weighty reasons for believing that they come veiy near the truth. At least, they derive veiy powerful support from comparative anatomy; for, in the gradual simplification of the digestive apparatus in the scale of animals, the salivary glands are the first to disappear, and that, too, in animals in which the digestive function is singularly active. I cannot but think that this fact alone offers a strong reason for believing that the last-named physiologist has erred in attributing to saliva such a very essential part in digestion. M. Blondlot further denies Liebig's assertion, that the chief office of this fluid is, (in virtue of its tendency to inclose air in the shape of froth,) to introduce air into the stomacli; " for," he remarks, " if