52 KETROSPKCT 01' ANATOMY A.N'D PHYSIOLOGY, yk in store for men of genius, in the bright career which these iUustrious chemists have opened to us.* I may here be allowed, in particular, to express a hope, that in the changes now in contemplation in the education of members of our profession, the teaching of chemistry on a grand scale, both in theory and practice, may be made a chief object. In the education of the physiologist, chemistry should be put on a le\'el with anatomy, since chemical change is, at least, co-ordinate with struc- tural form as a condition of life. Of the two, I am not sure whether a knowledge of the former does not give us greater insight into the most remarkable of these phenomena, seeing the intimate and material relationship which the consumption of matter bears to the various forms of force which the animal has at its com- mand. I am deeply convinced, that until these truths are clearly seen and acted upon, it will be vain to hope for any gi'eat advance in medical science. Before I pass on to the next division of my subject, I must refer to some recent observations on the physical phenomena of the circulation and of absorption. Those to which I chiefly desire to draw attention will be found in a paper by Dr. Marshall Hall,t on "The Circulation in the Acardiac Foetus;" in another, by * It is deeply to be deplored that this science, and the sciences generally, receive so little encouragement in this country at the hands of the State. It surely would be both wisdom and economy in a great nation like ours, which has taken to itself the high task of subduing every power, and appropriating eveiy product of the earth to man's use, to set aside and endow a great body of eminent men for inquiry into Nature. A vast step will be gained in civilisation when our legislators shall come to see in all the clearness in which this trath must ultimately appear, that in this direc- tion lies all future extension of our power. It is surprising that such a truth should still be but vaguely and obscurely apprehended, when the intimate connection between the most abstract discoveries in science and the greatness of nations, is daily set before us in such a striking point of view in the connection of astronomy with navigation. National astronomical observatories are kept up, because without them commerce must cease, and the ocean become what it once was—a trackless waste. But because the arts and agriculture still go on, and even advance on their present purblind methods and by the help which science already gives them, would it answer the less to institute great chemical observatories also? The works of the laboratory of Giessen are a sudicicnt answer. Already, on the faith of discoveries made there, a fleet of British merchantmen are floating their freight of guano to our shores; a frciijlit which, before another year is over, will bring its return in com and oxen. t Loinlmi and Jithnhvrqh Moiithli) Journal nf Medical Scicnre, .Tune, 1H4.T.