86 llETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 1. That although the fibres of the sympathetic be, on the whole, smaller than those of the cerebro-spinal, yet there is a gradual transition from one series to the other. That no such gap as that mentioned by Bidder and Volkmann, as dividing these fibres into two distinct groups, really exists, since the space it fills in linear measui-ement is so small, as to fall within the common and necessary errors of observation. That, moreover, the fibres of all nerves vary much in size, and that many single fibres do so, in difierent parts of their course, so that the fact does not justify any physiological inference. 2. That the fibres which originate in the ganglia are not true nerve-fibres, but the pseudo-nerve-fibres described by Remak, and that these last make up the whole excess of efierent over afferent fibres. According to Valentin's description, these pseudo-nerve-fibres are merely empty sheaths, thrown off from the ganglionic cor- puscles, of the same kind as the exactly similar sheaths, which this anatomist describes as passing off from the same coi-puscles to invest the true nerve-fibres. These objections have drawn a rejoinder from Volkmann in defence of the original paper, and a very acrimonious discussion is now being carried on between these anatomists, into which it would be improper to enter here. It may be remarked, however, that this appears to be a question which cannot be finally settled on purely anatomical evidence; for the only absolute proof, on whichever side it may be, must rest on dynamic, or physiological grounds. Terminating here this rapid sketch of the recent progress of the anatomy and physiology of the nervous system, we may pass at once to the electric phenomena of animals.* * I regret being obliged to pass over a great number of original communications on points of minor importance. For the convenience of those who may desire further information, I subjoin a list of references to a few of the more interesting among them:—On "The Weight of the Brain and Cerebellum," see a paper by Dr. J. Reid, Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, April, 1843; also in Paget's Rejmrt.—On "The Direct Influence of the Nervous Centres," by Volkmann, Pagct's Report^ and Miiller's Archiv, 1842, heft. v.—On "The Structure of Ganglia and Origins of Nerves in Invertebrata," by Dr. F. Will, Miiller's Archiv, 1844, heft, i. and ii.—Observations on the Nervous System geitei-ally, by Heine and Klencke. (An abstract of this work is given in Valentin's Report.)—Physiologic des