82 RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND PHVSIOLOGY, of deeper significance than any hitherto developed by those who have only looked at the subject from other points of view. But the defect of the chemists has been, in confining themselves to the consideration of thi^ force in complete abstraction from organisation and structure, so that when we come to apply their views to the actual physiology of the structures through which this power is exerted, we find om-selves as far back as ever. This gap the physiologist alone can fill up, and it is to his investigation of the laws of spinal or automatic nervous action that we must look as the most likely path to discovery. Here, then, he may find objects of sufiicient scope and elevation to satisfy the cravings of the most lofty ambition. But he cannot expect to attain results commensm-ate vnth the most elementary of the objects here pro- posed, unless by keeping these objects in view, clear and well defined, and by following them out by a large scheme of inves- tigation. Nothing less will avail than the systematic study of the agency which we have been considering, under all the various anatomical conditions in which it may be observed through the animal kingdom, or to which it may be reduced by experiment. It is only thus that we can hope to arrive at the essential conditions of its manifestation, and through these to gain some insight into its relation vdth other powers in natm-e, whose laws are better known. A scheme of such scope and purpose has never yet been acted upon. In the anatomical part of the investigation, more systematic reference than is apparent in any of the works passed in review, should be made to embryology, where adult anatomy is so intricate and involved. It was an ingenious and fertile thought, to imravel the mazes of finished texture by observing the tissue in its laying down; to watch the shuttle of the weaver and mark the pattern of his woof. More, still, as indeed may already be gathered fi-om Mr. Newport's instructive investigations, is to be expected fi-om comparative anatomy, with its yet more simple analysis of structure, and with all its chances of pregnant instances. Already one such—and, as it appears to me, one of no mean import—has come to light from this quarter, in the shape of a small fish, named the lancelet. {Amphioxus lanceolatus.) The anatomy of the nervous system of this fish, of which the absence of all outward distinction between