23 RETROSPECT OF ANATOMY AND I'HYSIOLOOV, animals generally. In the first place, they do not prove directly that fat is never formed anew by animals, but merely that such a supposition is, in the case of certain species, unnecessary for the explanation of the facts; and although even this, taken in connection with Magendie's observations, gives some plausibility to the doctrine as far as the herbivora which inhabit the land are concerned, yet this is a very limited field of inquiry; and in order to establish the general proposition, other cases have to be consi- dered. The inhabitants of the ocean, also, accumulate oil and fat in enormous masses. Do these, too, find these matters ready formed in their food? I need only instance the cetacea, to show the extent of the difficulty which this question offers; for although, as Dumas remarks in reply to Liebig, these are not herbivorous, but carnivorous animals, this is only shifting the difficulty, and not removing it. The question in this case can only be solved by an investigation of the same purport as that of which an analysis has just been given. For obvious reasons, the conditions of the problem can never here be determined with the same exactness, but approximate results of much interest might be obtained by ascertaining the amount of fatty matter which those marine plants contain which furnish food to fish.* Other instances of great difficulty were not slow to occm* to the minds of the authors themselves, to shake their faith in the conclusions they had di-a-roi from their first investigations. One of a very special kind, but bearing closely on the general question, is the formation of wax by bees. Huber having ascertained that bees fed on sugar still continue to make wax, was natm-ally led to infer that these insects have the faculty of forming the latter at the expense of the former. Our authors felt, nevertheless, that this conclusion was not unimpeachable, since in Huberts experiment no account was taken of the fat pre-existing in the bodies of the bees, and which evidently might have been the source of the wax they continued to make. They therefore resolved to examine the question * Probably, after all, as already surmised by M. Dumas, the solution of the difficulty will be found in the remarkable property, first discovered by Coimt Rumford, and since more accurately investigated by M. Morren, and more lately still byWcihler and Pfankuch, which certain infusoria possess of decomposing carbonic acid, after the manner of plants under the influence of light; a property which many considerations render probable will eventually be found of the greatest importance in the economy of the ocean.