KETllOSPECT Ol' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 54 for the object I proposed to myself in this Report, from the outset, was, not to give a complete and detailed analysis of the labom-s of the year in the form of dry catalogue, but rather a connected, and, in so far as in me lay, a critical view of such among them as touched on great questions in physiology, or seemed striking from their novelty and individual importance; venturing here and there, while surveying the past, to point out in what direction lie our hopes for the future. In my choice of subjects I have also uniformly given a preference to those which illustrate the principles of investigation which should guide us in physiological inquiry. By the adoption of these restric- tions, a large mass of matter M^as at once excluded from this Report. In the subjects belonging to this division of it, almost the only labours of the past year that answer the conditions just named, are two or three works on " The Anatomy and Physiology of the Nervous System," Matteuei^s striking discoveries on "The Electric Phenomena of Animals," and some recent investigations into the natm-e of certain functions connected with reproduction. The chief part of what space remains to me will be given to the consideration of these subjects. In order to enter upon them the sooner, I shall, therefore, pass very rapidly over some other objects of minor importance, beginning with the blood, as being the fii'st step in the passage of the food from the state of raw material into that of organised forms. In the Zeitschrift fur Rationelle Medicin, Bd. i., s. 238,* there is a very interesting paper, by Scheerer, on the cause of the difference between the colour of arterial, and that of venous blood. This paper contains a great number of observations, all tending to confii-m the opinion already advanced by Dr. John Da^^, as also by Henle and Nasse, that this difference of colour depends rather on physical than on chemical conditions. Scheerer is of opinion that it is related to differences in the form of the blood-corpuscles, affecting the manner in which light is reflected by these bodies. His researches seem to render it probable, that the bright colour of arterial blood is connected with a bi-concave, the dark colour of venous blood, with a more globular form of the corpuscle. In support of this, he has ascertained by the microscope, that salts * See also Schmidt's Jahrbuchcr, No. ii., 1844, from which the account in the text i.-i taken.