68 RKTKOSl'ECT OF ANATOMY AND I'llYSIOLOOV, The longitudinal fibres are of two kinds, white and grey, which, except in colour, only differ from one another in that the grey are softer than the white. According to the author, these two kinds of fibres form respectively the white and grey columns of the cord; for, in contradiction to former observers, he afl&rms that the grey matter of the cord, as well as the white, is entirely made up of fibres. This is rather a startling announcement for physiologists, since a great deal of present speculation is founded on the opposite opinion. Still more so is Dr. Stilling's statement, that these fibres hold an uninterrupted course from the pons to the cauda equina, without making any contributions to the roots of the nerves. In what way they terminate in the cauda equina he is unable to determine, but states that in their intermediate com-se they are nowhere seen to form anastomoses with one another. The "spinal bodies" are minute corpuscles of iiTegular form, three, foui', or five cornered, provided with a nucleus, and with long radiate processes, resembling on a larger scale those of the bone-corpuscles. Dr. Stilling is of opinion that, by means of these processes, they form a connected system, but cannot speak positively as to the point. Their exact relation to the fibres is not determined. The most important point in their history is, that they are only found among the fibres of the anterior grey matter. Here they are distributed with some regularity through the whole length of the cord, being much more abundant, however, at those points from which the nerves pass off to the extremities. From this, and other relations which they have with the anterior roots of the nerves. Dr. Stilling infers that their office is dynamic, and is connected with the motor power of the roots. For similar reasons he supposes that the substantia gelatinosa bears an analogous relation to the functions of the posterior roots. The transverse fibres of the cord are, according to the author, nothing more than the immediate prolongations of the roots of the nerves. The course he assigns to these is very remarkable, since, if his accounts be true, the anterior and posterior roots are continuous. The afferent fibres which enter the cord on one side pass out as efferent fibres on the other, a great part of them crossing to the opposite half of the cord. Some of these pass in front, and others behind the spinal canal; and, in consequence, a double crossing and manifold intermingling of afferent and efferent