6 RETROSPECT OP ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, being investigated, in all their manifestations, with an activity nnparalleled in the history of our science, and under all the advantages which improved methods and more perfect instruments offer. It was not, perhaps, sui-prising that Cuvier should have attached the greater importance to the form,—to the anatomy than to the chemical change. For although the discovery of the nature of respiration,—the complement of that of cii'culation, and the most important in the whole history of physiology,—had already been made, and might alone, and above all others, one would have thought, have awakened men's minds to the fundamental importance of chemical change in the phenomena of life, yet was this by no means its immediate result. Scarcely, at fii'st, were the simplest and most obvious of its profound and manifold relations to these phenomena clearly perceived; so often have the most striking facts to be impressed on oui* minds before we come to feel their full force and significance. And even now that organic chemistry has grown to a vast body of science, and that relations of the most interesting kind have been unfolded by its means, there are few among us, I believe, who yet fully apprehend its true scope and importance. Some there are who still refuse its help in our science, and who put no faith in its interpretations. Such persons would do well to con- sider, for a moment, the great fact of respiration, and its incessant necessity to the maintenance of the higher functions of hfe. "WTiy must the animal take in oxygen every moment or immediately die, or, at least, pass into a state of vegetative life, in which all the higher faculties are dormant? Why, again, when more motor power is expended, is there commensurate provision for increase of respira- tion, for more rapid chemical change? We have lost sight of the deep significance of these facts through oiu" familiarity with them; and their true relations have been further obscm'ed to us by oiu* involuntary habit of contemplating this ftinction in the character of a want, as known to us by our own consciousness, and as expressed in the struggles of the breathing animal, when the access of air is limited or prevented. Seldom in our habitual view of the act of breathing do our thoughts carry us beyond this. But, to the chemist, it ever appears, in ultimate analysis, simply as the provision for the introduction of oxygen into the economy, for the purposes of chemical change,—of combustion of so much matter.