BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 3'.) soda, as it is supposed to exist in bile itself. This, if confirmed, would be, I need scarcely remark, a result of considerable import- ance, since it would authenticate the views of Liebig, Demarjay, and Kemp, on the constitution of bile, by exactly that kind of evidence of which they now stand in need; and would for ever do away with the old notions as to the very composite character of this secretion. Dr. Platner gives in detail the processes by which he obtains these products. Before, however, his results can be finally admitted, it wiU be necessary for him to prove, by ultimate analysis, the identity of his crystalline body wdth the electro-negative body of M. Demar9ay. This he has not hitherto done. Having now gone through the history of the raw material by which animal life is fed, as also that of the process by which it is prepared for use, I pass at once to consider the dead chemical forms in which it is again thrown off", after having played its part in the living economy. Two principal organs, the lungs and the kidney, are charged with throwing off" the effete material: by the former it is cast off" in the shape of carbonic acid and water; by the latter in that of urea and other oxidised products. Within the past year Scharling* has published an extensive series of researches on the eHmination of carbonic acid. He found, as might have been anticipated, that the amount evolved in a given time is liable to wide variations in the same individual; that it increases rapidly immediately after taking food, so as to reach its highest point soon after the principal meal of the day; that it sinks very low in the state of hunger; but that in sleep it reaches a lower peint still. In one case, for example, the quantities evolved in the same space of time,—fii'st, about an hour and a half after dinner; next, when the individual was very hungry, immediately before breakfast; and, lastly, when sleeping,—were represented by the figm-es 165, 130, 100. These results are scarcely worth the pains they cost, since our present precise knowledge of the chemical relations of food to respiration, would have allowed us to predict them with the utmost certainty. To the chemist they offer no new fact; and the only use they can have is in showing those * Valentin's Reperlorium, Jalirgang, 1843, p. 345.