83 BY WILLIAM I5UDD, M.D, the brain and spinal cord is, in itself, a very singular feature, is so remarkable throughout, that I shall quote, entire, Mr. Goodsir's account of it as given in the last number of Dr. Todd's Cyclopcedia, referring the reader for further details to the original paper by the former, by whom it was first accurately described :*— " "VNTien a portion of the spinal cord is examined under a sufficient magnifying power, it is seen to be composed entirely of nucleated cells, very loosely attached to one another, but inclosed in an excessively delicate covering of pia mater. The cells are not arranged in any definite direction, except in the middle third of the cord, where they assume a longitudinal linear direction, but without altering their spherical form. The black pigment formerly mentioned as existing, more particularly on the upper sui'face and groove, is observed to be more abundant opposite the origin of the nerves; and as it is regularly arranged in this manner in dark masses along the anterior and posterior thirds of the cord, the organ, in these places, resembles much the abdominal ganglionic cord of an annulose animal. Along the middle third the pigment is not so regular, but appears in spots at short intervals. When any portion of the cord, however, is slightly compressed, and microscopically examined, it becomes evident that there is, along the groove and mesial line of its upper surface, a band consisting of cells of a larger size than those composing the rest of the organ. Some of these cells, only, are filled with black pigment, but all of them contain a fluid of a brown tint, which renders the tract of large cells distinctly visible. When the compression is increased the cells burst, and the fluid which flows from the central tract is seen to contain jet black granules, which may be detected as they escape from the cells. The nerves consist of primitive fibres, of a cylindrical shape, with faint longitudinal strise. " The primitive fibres of a trunk pass off into a branch, in the usual way, vdthout dividing; and where the trunks join the spinal cord, the primitive fibres are seen to approach close to it, hit without passing into it. The greater part of the slightly protuberant origin consisted of the nucleated cells of the cord, with a few pigment cells interspersed; the exact mode of termination of the central extremities of the primitive nervous fibres could not be detected. * TravHactiom of the Royal Society of Edinhurgh, vol. xv., Part 1.