51 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. state of change play in these processes. He well remarks, in objection to those who ascribe an essential part in them to microscopic beings, " If the fungus be the cause of the destruction of the oak, and the microscopic animal the cause of the dissolution of the dead elephant, to what cause then are we to ascribe the putrefaction of the fungus and the microscopic animal after their death ? They also ferment, putrefy, decay, and disappear gradually, fii'st in the same manner as the oak and the elephant, and in the end furnish the same products." This single objection decides the question, and is quite unan- swerable. But although Liebig thus shows the absm-dity of the notion that animalcules play any essential part in putrefaction, he nevertheless admits that they gi-eatly accelerate the resolution of dead matter into more simple chemical elements, and thus hasten the process. This is clear enough, since all animals are ever actively reducing, by the function of respiration, the complex atoms on which they feed into carbonic acid and water, which are two of the last products of decay. These observations are so conclusive that I may dispense with giving an account of the otherwise interesting experiments of Helmholtz, who succeeded in infecting organic mixtm'es with an active state of putrefaction, by introducing into them other putrid fluids by a process of endosmosis, whereby all living organisms were effectually shut out.* I cannot close this part of my Report without expressing my regret and humiliation at having, through its whole course, scarcely once had occasion to speak the name of an Enghshman. It is true that in this province we have one or two individual names, of which we may well be proud; but we shall look in vain for any thing worthy to be called a school of organic chemistry in this country, and still more, for anything Avorthy to emulate the noble schools of which Dumas and Liebig are the heads in France and Germany. I earnestly hope that we shall not long allow ourselves to be thus outstripped in this noble rivalry of nations, but that our own countrymen will strive to share in the glories that are * See Erdmann and Marchand's Journal fur Praktische Chemie, No. vii., \%Ai. p. 429: " Ueber das Wesen der Faillniss und Gahrung," Von Dr. Helmholtz. In many respects an interesting paper.