77 BY WILLIAM 13UDD, M.D. again emerge, without any break or any junction with other fibres, to supply corresponding parts to those, from which they were traced inwards. Other fibres of the same class pass directly across the cord from one limb to its fellow on the other side. In their passage through the cord all these fibres lie imbedded in grey matter, which is made up of nucleated cells. It need scarcely be remarked, how forcibly these details recal to mind the very analogous relations described by Dr. Stilling in the spinal cord of man. Besides those already described, there are two other principal elements in the central nervous axis of these animals,—a ganglionic and an aganglionic tract,—which, as they may be traced directly downwards from the analogue of the brain, Mr. Newport regards as ministering to sensation and vohtion. Moreover, as, after the removal of the cerebral ganglion, the motions of these animals, although still active, cease to give evidence of volition and sensation, (the entire absence of the latter, however, not being always perfectly clear,) Mr. NcAvport considers himself entitled to infer that these motions are purely reflex, and are executed through the fibres that take the peculiar course already described. It is highly desirable that these observations should be repeated by other anatomists, especially as Helmholtz* regards the analogous relations, formerly described by Mr. Newport in the nervous system of the crab, as, in great part, the artificial result of the mode of examination. However this may be, the present memoir is full of interesting matter of various kinds, and will well repay an attentive study. The physiologist cannot, in particular, be too strongly recom- mended to the study of the motor powers of animals, in their involuntary exercise, under every variety of anatomical condition in connection with which they may be exhibited. There is, indeed,. already much to hope from the continued and active investigation of this branch of physiology by so many able inquirers, and under such various modes of investigation. Tor it is not difficult to see that among the so-called reflex phe- nomena of the s])inal cord, and the equivalent phenomena of the * I have been unable to obtain this author's work on the microseojiic anatomy of the nervous system of invertebrata—De Fabrica Systcmntis Nei-imsi Imierte.bralorum.