BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. 31 The most startling part of this statement is, that, according to the author, and in direct contradiction to the inference to which MM. Sandi-as and Bouchardat have been led by their recent researches, as well as to the opinion of chemists in general, these substances are not dissolved by the gastric juice, but merely converted into a pulp of extreme fineness. On this head his statements are so clear and explicit that I vrill ventm'e to give them in nearly his own words. " Another point," he says, " which it is important to establish well is, that the gastric juice does not really dissolve any of these substances, or at least that the solvent action it exerts upon them is all but insignificant. In fact I have ascertained, by numerous experiments, that fibrine, coagulated albumen and caseine, hardened by heat, are not dissolved by gastric juice in greater quantity than in water acidulated to the same degree by phosphoric or any other acid; and we all know that, diluted to this point, acids, of whatever kind, scarcely attack these matters at all. We have seen also that, after prolonged contact with these matters, at a temperature of 40° centigr., the gastric juice gives with nitric acid and with bi-chloride of mercm-y, a precipitate so scanty in comparison with what remains undissolved, as to be not worthy of any considera- tion. When its action is complete the larger undissolved portion appears broken up into paiiicles of extreme minuteness, which occupy the bottom of the vessel, and which, when shaken up, give to the liquid the look of an emulsion. If, in this state, a drop be put on a slip of glass and examined under the microscope, an immense number of irregular particles of various sizes are seen. The smallest are scarcely as large as blood-globules, the largest much larger than these." M. Blondlot elsewhere remarks that the whole has the closest resemblance to what Mr. Gulliver has named the molecular base of the chyle, as, in fact, these are, according to the author's view, identical matters. This doctrine, that the proteine compounds are not dissolved in digestion, is however one that m'C must be cautious of adopting, and the more so as, according to M. Bouchardat's observations, even dilute muriatic acid, of the same degree of acidity as gastric juice, does, after a time, completely dissolve muscular fibre. Touching the absorption of alimentary matters, M. Blondlot is of opinion that the undissolved matters, which, according to him,