RETllOSPIiCT Ol' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, 56 Finally, he recognises other bodies again, of still smaller size, and of yellow or reddish colour, swimming free in the liquor sanguinis. The author looks upon these last as the first solid forms arising out of the liquor sanguinis, and has named them " primordial nuclei." The work also contains a great number of observations on the formation of the blood-corpuscle in the adult, on the seat of the colouring matter of blood, and on the chemical and physical characters of this fluid. In Mailer's Archiv, Meyer has described some singular varieties of form in blood-corpuscles, found in the blood of various reptiles,— varieties which have some interest in their bearing on the mode of development of these bodies. Thus, scattered among the normal corpuscles, were some provided with tails, others spindle-shaped, and others, again, contracted in the middle and swelling out at each end in a vesicular form, so as to offer some resemblance to dumb bells. This last form, in particular, acquires interest from the fact, that from the observation of similar, but more definite appearances in cells of various kinds; in the blood-corpuscle, namely, in the transitory cells of the yolk, and in those of which the simplest infusoria are made up. Dr. Martin Barry has been led to the theory, that by far the most general, if not the only mode in which cells multiply, is by fissiparous division. According to Dr. Barry, the process begins in the nucleus of the cell, or, as he calls it, the hyaline body, and is afterwards extended to the whole cell.* The minute structure of the spleen still continues to baffle the skill of anatomists. Among others less distinguished, MM. Flourens and Bourgery have made a very laborious examination into the anatomy of this organ, but without any result of much novelty or importance. M. Bardeleven has endeavoured to gain some insight into the natui-e of its function, by watching the con- sequences of its extirpation in dogs. He found, as others had done before him, that those animals that survive the operation, retain their health and are, to all appearance, exactly as before. He even obtained the same negative result in animals from which he removed the thyroid body also. In neither case did any function * Jameson's Journal, 1843.