19 BY WILLIAM BUDD, M.D. starch or in sugar, (principles out of which it is commonly sup- posed animals form a great part of their fat,) as well as that which results from the digestion of lean flesh, is very poor in globules. Such chyle is translucent, serous, and gives up to ether a very small amount of fatty matter. These facts certainly furnish, as far as they go, a strong pre- sumption in favour of the view taken by our authors. But they lay still greater stress on certain facts touching the conditions which affect the formation and nature of butter. " If one-half of a cow's allowance of hay be replaced by an equivalent of tm'nip cake, still rich in oil, the beast keeps up its condition, but the milk fui-nishes a more fluid butter, and this butter possesses, to an intolerable degree, the savour peculiar to the oil of turnip." " What," the authors ask, " can be opposed to this direct observation, and how not conclude from it, that the fatty matters of the food pass into the milk, often little or not at all altered, in order to form butter!"* To determine between these rival opinions, as to the source of fat in animals, was a matter of no mean importance. The question involves a cardinal point in animal chemistry:—nothing less, in fact, than to ascertain in what degree animals also have * I need not point out the great value of the practical ajiplication of tliese obsei-va- tions to the quality of woman's milk, which is, undoubtedly, liable to equal variation under the influence of similar conditions. The judicious regulation of these, by proper modifications in the food of the nurse, furnishes us with the only means we have in our power, (but, fortunately, they ai'e direct £ind powerful,) of making changes in the natural food of the infant at the breast. All good practitioners are, more or less, in the habit of availing themselves of them; but there can be no doubt that many disorders of the sucking child are still treated by nauseous and ii-ritating drugs, which should find their natural and appropriate remedy in the judicious regulation of the diet of the mother. To what an extent this may be brought to bear on the nature of the milk, will appear from the fact cited by the authors of this memoir— that the butter of the cows of a single locality may vary to such a point, according as they are fed on green forage, or on diy fodder, as to contain, as in the case of the butter of the Vosges, for instance, from 66 of margarine to 100 of oleine in summer, up to 186 of margarine to 100 of oleine in winter. In the first case the cows graze on the mountain side; in the second, they feed in the stable on dry fodder; for the rest, every one must have remarked the more solid state of butter in winter, and that quite independently of the lower temperature of the season. Another interesting observation to be foimd in this memoir is, that the milk of cows fed chiefly on carrots ajiproaches very nearly in quality to that of women, a fact whicii, it appeai-s, is taken advantage of in France, for the nourishment of infants deprived of their mothers' breast.