SUB-ARACHNOID SPACE AND FLUID. 565 in the cranium, the pia mater becomes continuous with the neurilemma. It is supplied with nerves from the sympathetic. Towards the upper part of the cord, the pia mater presents a greyish mottled appearance, which is owing to pigment particles deposited within its tissue. THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. The arachnoid is a very fine delicate serous membrane, which, like other membranes of that class, forms the lining boundary of a shut sac. The walls of this sac consist of two portions, one of which, a distinct membrane on the surface of the pia mater, is the visceral or cerebral layer of the arachnoid, while the other, giving the smooth surface presented by the dura mater on its interior, is described by some anatomists as the parietal layer of the arachnoid, while, according to the view taken by others, it is merely the serous surface of the dura mater. The parietal wall of the arachnoid space is invested with a layer of polygonal epithelial cells, which are flattened and nucleated. Besides this, it presents in the greater part of its extent no tissue distinct from the dura mater ; and hence it is that KoUiker and others object to the term parietal layer of the arachnoid membrane as applied to the structure of this surface. It may be mentioned, however, that in certain recesses, as for example at the sides of the crista galli, and between the trabeculse into which the deep fibres of the dura mater are thrown in the neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal sinus, a small amount of delicate connective tissue beneath the epithelium may be distinguished from the dense fibres of the dura mater. The visceral layer of the arachnoid is a distinct transparent membrane which passes over the various eminences and depressions on the cerebrum and cerebellum, without dipping into the sulci and smaller fissures ; nor is it uniformly and closely adherent to the pia mater. The interval left between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater is named generally the subarachnoid space. This subarachnoid space is wider and more evident in some positions than in others. Thus, in the longitudinal fissure, the arachnoid does not descend to the bottom, but passes across, immediately below the edge of the falx, at a little distance above the corpus callosum. In the interval thus left, the arteries of the corpus callosum run backwards along that body. At the base of the brain and in the spinal canal there is a wide interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater. In the base of the brain, this subarachnoid space extends in front over the pons and the interpeduncular recess as far forwards as the optic nerves, and behind it forms a considerable interval bstween the cerebellum and the back of the medulla oblongata. In the spinal canal it surrounds the cord, forming a space of considerable extent. A certain quantity of fluid is contained between the arachnoid membrane and the dura mater ; but it has been shown by Magendie that the chief part of the cerebro-spinal fluid is lodged under the arachnoid, in the subarachnoid space. Magendie also pointed out the existence of a sort of septum dividing the spinal subarachnoid space at the back of the cord. This is a thin mem- branous partition, which passes in the median plane from the pia mater covering the posterior median fissure of the cord to the opposite part of the loose portion of the arachnoid membrane. It is incomplete and cribriform; and consists of bundles of white fibres interlaced more or less with one another. Fibrous bands of the same texture pass across the subarachnoid