1018 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HERNT/E. tion, the surgeon, instructed by the case alluded to, arid by other examples of the same arrangement of the arteries which have since been observed, might at once, under the guidance of the pulsation, or of the effect of pressure in controlling the circulation through the aneurism, divide the covering of areolar tissue over the second part of the artery, and tie it likewise. II. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PARTS CONCERNED IN CERTAIN ABDOMINAL HERNIA. Besides the surgical anatomy of the principal arteries, cei^;ain parts of the walls of the abdomen and pelvis are to be now considered with refer- ence to surgical operations in which the viscera of those cavities are from time to time concerned. The walls of the abdomen, when in a healthy state, unaffected by injury, disease, or malformation, retain the viscera within the cavity under all circumstances ; but where certain natural openings exist for the passage of blood-vessels, protrusions of the viscera, constituting the disease named *'hernia" or rupture," are liable to occur under the influence of the com- pression to which the organs are subjected during the production of efforts. For the replacement of the viscus so protruded, an accurate acquaintance with the structure of the part through which the protrusion takes place is required by the surgeon ; and, on this account, an examination of the seat of the hernia as a surgical region becomes necessary. Two of the openings by w^hich hernise escape from the abdomen are situate close together at the groin. One is the canal in the lower part of the broad abdominal muscles, which gives passage in the male to the duct and vessels of the testis (spermatic cord), and in the female to the round ligament of the womb. The second opening exists at the inner side of the large femoral blood-vessels. Hernial protrusions are likewise found to escape at the umbilicus, in the course of the blood-vessels which occupy that openirig in the foetus, or in the immediate neighbourhood of the opening; and at the thyroid foramen where the obturator vessels and nerve pass downwards to the adductor muscles of the thigh. According to the situation they occupy, these herniae are named respectively inguinal, femoral, umbilical, and obturator. They will now be separately noticed ; but, inasmuch as the structure of the parts connected with the umbilical and obturator herniae is by no means intricate, and as, moreover, it is noticed with sufficient detail in text books of prac- tical surgery, it will be unnecessary to refer farther in this work to those forms of hernia. OF THE PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. The inguinal hernia, it has been stated above, follows the course of the spermatic cord from the cavity of the abdomen. We shall therefore, before adverting to the hernial protrusions, examine the structure of the abdominal walls in the neighbourhood of the canal in which the cord is placed ; and for this purpose it will be supposed that the constituents of those walls are successively laid bare and everted to such an extent as would be permitted by two incisions made through them, and reaching, one along the linea alba for the length of three or four inches from the pubes, the other, from the upper end of the vertical incision outwards to the superior spine of the hip-bone. The superficial fascia (p. 257) is connected along the fold of the groin