769 DEVELOPMENT OF TPIE EAR. vesicle by bending in of its walls under it, and tlius the elevation is converted into a tube open at each end, -which subsequently becomes elongated and presents an ampullar dilatation. The cartilage which forms the osseous labyrinth is continuous with that of the rest of the primordial cranium. The cartilaginous walls of the cavity are united by connective tissue to the vesicle : this connective tissue, according to Kolliker, becomes divided into three layers, of which the outer forms the lining periosteum ; the inner forms the external walls of the membranous labyrinth, while the intervening layer swells up into gelatinous tissue, the meshes of which become wider and wider, till at last the space is left which ultimately is found containing perilymph. Fig. 525.—Labyrinth of the Human Fcetus of Four ^^S- Weeks, magnified (from Kolliker). A, from behind ; B, from before; v, the vestibule ; rv, recessus vestibuli, giving rise later to the aqueduct; c s, commencement of the semicircular canals; a, upper dilatation, belonging perhaps to another semi- circular canal; c, cochlea. The cochlea appears at first as a prolongation downwards from the auditory vesicle, but afterwards becomes tilted forwards. This prolongation of the auditory vesicle is the rudimentary canalis mem- branacea. Close to it is placed the cochlear nerve, with a gangliform extremity. The canal becomes elongated in a spiral direction, and the ganglion, which is elongated with it, becomes the ganglion spirale. Between the canal and the cartilaginous wall which afterwards surrounds it a large amount of con- nective tissue intervenes, and in this the cavities of the scala vestibuli and scala tym- pani appear at a later period, precisely as does the space for the perilymph in the Fig. 526.—Transverse Section op THE Cochlea in a Fcetal Calf, MAGNIFIED (from Kolliker). C, the wall of the cochlea, still carti- laginous ; c c, canalis cochlese ; I s, placed in the tissue occupying the place of the scala vestibuli indicates the lamina spiralis ; n, the central cochlear nerve ; g, the place of the spiral ganglion ; S, the body of the sphenoid ; c h, chorda dorsalis. vestibule. The modiolus and spiral lamina, according to Kolliker, are ossified without intervention of car- tilage. Within the canalis mem- branacea Kolliker finds in the em- bryo a continuous epithelial lining, thin on the membrane of Reissner and on the outer wall, but forming a thick eleva tion in the position of the rods of Corti, and a larger elevation more internally, filling up the sulcus spiralis. On the surface of this latter elevation he observes a transpa- rent body, the membrane of Corti. With regard to the middle and external ear, it has been already explained at pages 65 and 66 that the external aperture, the tympanic cavity and the Eustachian tube are formed in the posterior or upper part of the first branchial cleft, which remains open except at the place where the passage is interrupted by the formation of the membrana tympani; and also that the incus and malleus are formed in the first branchial lappet from the proximal part of Meckel's cartilage, and the stapes and stapedius muscle and the styloid process in the second lappet. It is pointed out by 3 E