740 THE EAR. THE EAR. The organ of hearing is divisible into tiiree parts : the external ear, the tympanum or middle ear, and the labyrinth or internal ear. The first two of these are to be considered as accessories or appendages to the third, which is the sentient portion of the organ. Fig. 495. Fig. 495.—Diagrammatic View prom before op the Parts composing the Organ op Hearing of the Left Side (after Arnold). The temporal bone of the left side, with the accompanying soft parts, has been detached from the head, and a section has been carried through it transversely so as to remove the front of the meatus externus, half the tympanic membrane, the upper and anterior wall of the tympanum and Eustachian tube. The meatus internus has also been opened, and the bony labyrinth exposed by the removal of the surrounding parts of the petrous bone. 1, the pinna and lobe ; 2, 2', meatus externus ; 2', membrana tympani ; 3, cavity of the tympanum ; 3', its opening backwards into the mastoid cells ; between 3 and 3', the chain of small bones ; 4, Eustachian tube ; 5, meatus internus containing the facial (uppermost) and the auditory nerves ; 6, placed on the vestibule of the laby- rinth above the fenestra ovalis ; a, apex of the petrous bone ; h, internal carotid artery ; c, styloid process ; c?, facial nerve issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen ; e, mastoid process ; /, squamous part of the bone covered by integument, &c. THE EXTERNAL EAR. In the external ear are included the pinna,—the part of the outer ear which projects from the side of the head; together with the meatus or passage which leads thence to the tympanum, and is closed at its inner extremity by a membrane (membrana tympani) interposed between it and the middle ear. THE PINNA.. Superficial confi^guration.—The general form of the pinna or auricle is concave, as seen from the outside, to fit it for collecting and concentrating the undulations of sound ; it is thrown into various elevations and hollows, to which distinct names have been given. The largest and deepest con- cavity, a little below the centre of the organ, is called the concha ; it