678 IfEKVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. posterior tibial nerve, it is directed forwards tinder cover of the first part of the abductor of the great toe, and, passing between that muscle and the short flexor of the toes, it gives off the internal cutaneous branch for the great toe, and divides opposite the iniddle of the foot into three digital branches. The outermost of these branches communicates with the external plantar nerve. Branches.—a. Small muscular branches are supplied to the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum. h. Small plantar cutaneous branches perforate the plantar fascia to ramify in the integument of the sole of the foot. c. The digital h^anches are named numerically from within outwards: the three outer pass from under cover of the plantar fascia near the clefts between the toes. The first or innermost branch continues single, but the other three bifurcate to supply the adjacent sides of two toes. These branches require separate notice. I'he first digital branch is that destined for the inner side of the great toe; it becomes subcutaneous farther back than the others, and sends ofi" a branch to the flexor brevis pollicis. Fig. 418. Fig. 448.—Superficial and Deep Distribution op THE Plantar Nerves (from Hirschfeld and Le- veille, slightly modified). ^ The flexor communis brevis, the abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, a part of the tendons of the flexor communis longus, together with the lumbricales muscles, have been removed so as to bring into view the transversus and interossei in the middle of the foot. a, upon the posterior extremity of the flexor com- munis brevis, near which, descending over the heel, are seen ramifications of the calcaneal branch of the posterior tibial nerve; b, abductor pollicis ; c, tendon of the flexor communis longus divided close to the place where it is joined by the flexor accessorius ; d, abductor minimi digiti; e, tendon of the flexor longus pollicis between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis ; 1, internal plantar nerve giving some twigs to the abductor pollicis, and 1', a branch to the flexor communis brevis, cut as it lies on the acces- sorius ; 2, inner branch of the internal plantar nerve giving branches to the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, and forming, 2', the internal cutaneous of the great toe ; 3, continuation of the internal plantar nerve, dividing subsequently into three branches, which form, 3', 3', 3', the collateral plantar cutaneous nerves of the first and second, second and third, and third and fourth toes ; 4, the external plantar nerve ; 4', its branch to the abductor minimi digiti; 5, twig of union between the plantar nerves ; 6, superficial branch of the external plantar nerve ; subsequently dividing into 6', 6', the collateral cutaneous nerves of the fourth and fifth toes and the external nerve of the fifth ; 7, deep branch of the external plantar nerve giving twigs to the adductor pollicis, the interossei, the trans- versalis, and to the third and fourth lumbricales muscles. The second branch having reached the interval between the first and second meta- tarsal bones^ furnishes a small twig to the first lumbricalis muscle, and bifurcates behind the cleft between the great toe and the second to supply their contiguous sides. The third digital branch, corresponding with the second interosseous space, gives a slender filament to the second lumbricalis muscle, and divides in a manner similar