717 THE CHOROID COAT. authors), and by vessels and nerves. The inner surface, which is smooth, is lined by a continuous layer of pigmentary cells. The ciliary lyrocesses, about eighty-five in number, are arranged radiately in a circle. They consist of larger and smaller folds, without regular alter- nation, and the small folds number about one-third of the large. Each of the larger folds, measuring about y q*^^ inch, in length and ^^'^th in depth, forms a rounded projection at its inner end, which is free from the Fig. 463.—Ciliary Processes as seex PROM BEHIND. \ 1, posterior surface of the iris, with the sphincter muscle of the pupil; 2, anterior part of the choroid coat; 3, one of the ciliary processes, of which about seventy are represented. pigment which invests the rest of the structure ; but externally they become gradually narrower, and disappear in the choroid coat: the smaller pro- cesses are only half as deep as the others. At and near their internal or anterior extremities the processes are connected by lateral loop-like projec- tions, and are separated from the iris by pigment. The plications of the ciliary processes fit into corresponding plications of the suspensory ligament of the lens. Strctcture.—From a difference in the fineness of its constituent blood- vessels, the choroidal coat resolves itself into two strata, inner and outer ;— the latter containing the larger branches, and the former the capillary ramifications. In the outer part of the coat are situated the branches of the vessels. The arteries are large, and are directed forwards before they bend down- wards to end on the inner surface ; whilst the veins (vasa vorticosa) are disposed in curves as they converge to four of five principal trunks issuing from the eyeball. In the intervals between those vessels are lodged elongated and star-shaped pigment cells with very fine offsets, which intercommunicate and form a network or stroma. Towards the inner part of the tunic, this network passes gradually into a web without pigment : it resembles elastic tissue in its chemical and physical properties. The inner imrt of the choroid coat (tunica Ruyschiana s. chorio-capillaris) is formed by the capillaries of the choroidal vessels. From the ends of the large arteries the capillaries radiate in a star-like manner, and form meshes which are more delicate and smaller than in any other texture, and are finer at the back than the front of the ball. This fine network reaches as far forwards as about -|^th of an inch from the cornea, or opposite to the ending of the expansion of the optic nerve, where its meshes become larger, and join those of the ciliary processes. On the inner surface of the tunica Ruyschiana may be detected, according to various authors, a structureless transparent membrane, the membrane of Bruch, underlying the pigmentary layer. The ciliary processes have the same structure as the choroid, of which they are a part ; but the capillary plexus of the vessels, less fine, has meshes