MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 962 and muscular tissue, and it has been supposed that this eminence when dis- tended with blood, may offer an obstacle to the passage of the semen back- wards into the bladder. (E. H. Weber, Zusatze zur Lehre vom Baue und Verrichtungen der Geschlechts-Organe, 1846 ; Buschke in Soemmerring's Anatomic, vol. v. ; Leuckart, " Vesicula Prostatica," in Cyclop, of Anat. & Phys.) 2. The membranous portion of the urethra comprises the part between the apex of the prostate, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It mea- sures three-quarters of an inch along its anterior, but only about half an inch on its posterior surface, in consequence of the projection upwards on it of the bulb. This is the narrowest division of the urethra. In the middle its circumference is 0*6 of an inch ; at the end 0*5. (H. Thompson.) It is placed beneath the pubic arch, the anterior concave surface being distant nearly an inch from the bone, leaving an interval, occupied by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, by areolar tissue, and some muscular fibres. Its lower convex surface is turned towards the perineum, opposite to the point of meeting of the transverse muscles : it is separated by an interval from the last part of the rectum. About a line in front of the prostate, it emerges from between the anterior borders of the levatores ani, and passes through the deep layer of the subpubic fascia (p. 260) ; it is then placed between that and the anterior layer or triangular ligament through which it passes some way farther forwards, but both of these fibrous membranes are prolonged upon the canal, the one backwards and the other forwards. Between these two layers the urethra is surrounded by a little erectile tissue, by some veins, and also by the fibres of the compressor urethroe muscle ; beneath it, on each side, are Cowper's glands. The proper or plain muscular fibres of this portion of the urethra are continued over the outer and inner surfaces of the prostate into the muscular coat of the bladder posteriorly, and into those of the spongy portion of the urethra anteriorly. (Hancock.) 3. The spongy portion of the urethra, by far the longest and most vari- able in length and direction, includes the remainder of the canal, or that part which is surrounded by the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Its length is about six inches. The part contained within the bulb, some- times distinguished as the bulbous portion, is somewhat dilated ; its circum- ference being equal to seven-tenths of an inch (Thompson). The succeeding portion, as far as the glans, is of uniform size, being intermediate in this respect between the bulbous and membranous portions. The cross section of its canal appears like a transverse slit. The canal of the urethra situated in the glans has, on the contrary, when seen in a cross section, the form of a vertical slit : in this part the canal is again considerably dilated, forming what is named the fossa navicularis, which is from four to six lines in length, and is most evident in the form of a depression on the floor of the urethra. Lastly, at its orifice, which is a vertical fissure 'from two and a half to three lines in extent, and bounded by two small lips, the urethra is again contracted and reaches its narrowest dimensions. In consequence of its form, and also of the resistant nature of the tissues at its margin, this open- ing does not admit so large an instrument as even the membranous portion of the canal. The Mucous Membrane of the urethra possesses a lining of stratified epithelium, of which the superficial cells are columnar, except for a shorb distance from the orifice, where they are squamous, and where the subjacent membrane exhibits papillae. The whole lining membrane of the urethra is beset with small mucous