VENTRICLES OF THE LARYNX. 913 wider in tlie centre ; when moderately open, as in easy respiration, its shape is that of a long triangle, the pointed extremity being directed for- wards, and the base being placed behind between the arytenoid cartilages ; and in its fully-dilated condition it has the figure of an elongated lozenge, the posterior sides of which are formed by the inner sides of the bases of the arytenoid cartilages, while the posterior angle is truncated. This aper- ture is the narrowest part of the interior of the larynx ; in the adult male it measures about eleven lines or nearly an inch in an antero-posterior direction, and three or four lines across at its widest part, which may be dilated to nearly half an inch. In the female, and in males before the age of puberty, its dimensions are less, its antero-posterior diameter being about eight lines, and its transverse diameter about two. The vocal ligaments measure about seven lines in the adult male, and five in the female. The ventricles, or sinuses of the larynx, situated between the superior and inferior vocal cords on each side, are narrower at their orifice than in their interior. The upper margin of each is crescentic, and the lower straight : the outer surface is covered by the upper fibres of the corresponding Fig. 638. thyro-arytenoid muscle. Fig. G3S.—Anterior Half of a Trans- verse Vertical Section through the Larynx near its middle. n In order to bring the deepest part of one of the sacculi into view, the section is car- ft ried somewhat farther forward on the right -j^-^ side : the space between the horizontal dotted lines marked 1, comprises the upper division of the laryngeal cavity; that marked 2, corresponds to the middle cavity or that of the ventricles ; that marked 3, indicates the lower division of the laryngeal cavity, continued into 4, a part of the trachea ; e, the free part of the epiglottis ; €, its cushion ; h, the divided great cornua of the hyoid bone; ht, thyro-hyoid mem- brane ; t, cut surface of the divided thyroid cartilage; c, that of the cricoid cartilage ; r, first ring of the trachea ; ta, superior and inferior parts of the thyro-arytenoid muscle; vl, thyro-arytenoid ligament in the true vocal cord covered by mucous membrane at the rima glottidis ; s, the ventricle ; above this, the superior or false cords or margin of the folds above the ven- tricles ; s', the sacculus or pouch opened on the right side. The small culs-de-sac named the laryngeal pouches lead from the anterior part of the ventricles upwards, for the space of half an inch, between the superior vocal cords on the inner side, and the thyroid cartilai^e on the outer side, reaching as high as the upper border of that cartilage at the sides of the epiglottis. The pouch is conical in shape, and curved slightly backwards. Its opening into the ventricle is narrow, and is generally limited by two folds of the liDing mucous membrane. Numerous small glands, sixty or seventy in number, open into its interior, and it is surrounded by a quan- tity of fat. Externally to the fat, this little pouch receives a fibrous investment, which is continuous below with the superior vocal cord. Over 3 0