566 CEREBKO-SPINAL MEMBRANES. space in various situations both within the spinal canal and at the base of the brain, stretching thus from the arachnoid membrane to the pia mater. Fig. 385. Fig. 385. Transverse Section op the Spinal Cord and its Envelopes (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveill^). 1, dura mater or theea ; 2, parietal layer of the arachnoid membrane ; 3, internal or loose arachnoid ; 4 and 7, subarachnoid cavity or space ; 5, hinder part of the antero-lateral column ; 6, space between the arachnoid and the dura mater, or between the inner and outer folds of the arachnoid membrane ; 8, reflection of the one fold into the other ; 9, sheath furnished to the spinal nerve by the dura mater ; 10, posterior ganglionic root ; 11, smaller anterior root ; 12, section of the ligamentum denticulatum. This figure does not show the septum which posteriorly divides the subarachnoid space into right and left parts: this would be placed between the arachnoid at 3, and the pia mater covering the posterior surface of the cord. As the cerebral and spinal nerves proceed to their foramina of exit from within the dura mater, they are loosely surrounded by tubular sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, which extend along each nerve from the visceral to the parietal layer. Structure.—When examined under the microscope, the visceral or true arach- noid is found to consist of very distinctly separated riband-like bundles of fibrous tissue interlaced with one another, and a simple layer of scaly epithelium on the surface. Yolkmann has described a rich plexus of nerves in the arachnoid mem- brane of certain ruminants. Kolliker has failed to detect their presence ; but they have been again described by Bochdalek, who traces them to the portio minor of the fifth, the facial, and accessorius nerves; and they have likewise been followed by Luschka. Cerebrospinal Jiuid.—This is a very limpid serous fluid, which occupies the sub- arachnoid space. When collected immediately after death, its quantity was found by Magendie in the human subject to vary from two drachms to two ounces. It is slightly alkaline, and consists, according to an analysis by Lassaigne, of 98*5 parts of water, the remaining 1*5 per cent, being solid matter, animal and saline. In experiments made on the dog, it was found by Magendie to be reproduced in thirty- six hours, after it had been drawn off by puncturing the membranes at the lower part of the cord. When pressure is made upon the brain, the quantity of fluid in the spinal subarachnoid space is increased, and conversely, it may be forced from the spinal cavity upwards into the cranium. Ligamentum denticulatum.—This is a narrow fibrous band which runs along each side of the spinal cord in the subarachnoid space, between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, commencing above at the foramen mag- num, and reaching down to the lower pointed end of the cord. By its inner edge this band is connected with the pia mater of the cord, while its outer margin is widely denticulated ; and its denticulations, traversing the arachnoid space, with the arachnoid membrane reflected over them, are attached by their points to the inner surface of the dura mater, and thus serve to support the cord along the sides and to maintain it in the middle of the cavity. The first or highest denticulation is fixed opposite the margin of the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; and the others follow in order, alternating with the successive pairs of spinal nerves. In all, there are about twenty-two of these points of insertion. At the lower end, the ligamentum denticulatum