906 THE LARYNX. the larynx, whilst the epiglottis is situated in front, and the cuneiform cartilages on each side of the upper opening. The thijroid cartilage is the largest of the pieces composing the frame- work of the larynx. It is formed by two flat lamellse, united in front, at an acute angle along the middle line, where they form a projection at the upper part. This angular projection is subcutaneous, and is much more prominent in the male than in the female, being named in the former the pomum. Adami. The two symmetrical halves or lamellae, named the alee, are some- what quadrilateral in form : the anterior border where they are joined is the shortest, the pomum Adami being surmounted by a deep notch ; the posterior free border of each, thickened and vertical, is prolonged upwards and downwards into two processes or cornua, and gives attachment to the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles ; the superior and inferior borders are both of them concave immediately in front of the cornua, while the superior is convex in its anterior half, and the inferior is nearly straight. The external flattened surface of each ala is marked by an indistinct oblique line or ridge, which, commencing at a tubercle situated at the back loart of the upper border of the cartilage, passes downwards and forwards, so as to mark off the anterior three-fourths of the surface from the remaining pos- terior portion. This line gives attachment below to the steruo-thyroid, and above to the thyro-hyoid muscle, whilst the small smooth surface behind it gives origin to part of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and affords attachment, by means of areolar tissue, to the thyroid body. On their internal surfaces, the two alsd are smooth and slightly concave, and by their Fig. 634. Fig. G34.—Cartilages of the Larynx seen from BEFORE. # 1 to 4, thyroid cartilage; 1, vertical ridge or pomum Adami; 2, right ala ; 3, superior, and 4, inferior cornu of the right side ; 5, 6, cricoid carti- lage ; 5, inside of the posterior part; 6, anterior narrow part of the ring ; 7, arytenoid cartilages. union in front, form a narrow angle within. Of the four cornua, all of which bend in- wards, the two superior or great cornua, pass backwards, upwards, and inwards, and ter- minate each by a blunt extremity, which is connected, by means of the lateral thyro- hyoid ligament, to the tip of the corresponding great cornu of the os hyoides. The iyiferior or smaller cornua, which are somewhat thicker but shorter, are directed forwards and inwards, and present each, on the inner aspect of the tip, a smooth surface, for articulation with a prominence on the side of the cricoid carti- lage. The cricoid cartilage, so named from being shaped like a ring, is thicker in substa,nce and stronger than the thyroid cartilage. It is deep behind, where the thyroid cartilage is deficient, measuring in the male about an inch from above downwards ; but in front its vertical measurement is dimi- nished to a fourth or a fifth of an inch. This diminution is caused by the direction of the superior border, which rises in convex elevation behind, and