601 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. the malar bone, where it is frequently divided into two filaments. In the prominent part of the cheek this nerve communicates with the facial nerve. Fig. 406. Fig. 406.—Superior Maxillary Nerve and some op tbe Orbital Nerves (from Sappey after Hirsclifeld and Leveill^). f. 1, the Gasserian ganglion ; 2, lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; 3, trunk of the superior maxillary nerve; 4, its orbital branch, joining at 5, the palpebral twig of the lachrymal ; 6, origin of its malar twig ; 7, its temporal twig ; 8, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 9, Vidian nerve ; 10, its upper branch or great superficial petrosal nerve proceeding to join the facial nerve (11) ; 12, union of the lower branch of the Vidian nerve with the carotid branch of the sympathetic ; 13, 14, posterior dental nerves ; 15, terminal branches of the infraorbital nerves ramifying on the side of the nose and upper lip ; 16, a branch of the facial uniting with some of the twigs of the infraorbital. POSTERIOIl DENTAL BKANCHES. The posterior dental branches, two in number, are directed downwards and outwards over the back part and tuberosity of the maxillary bone. One of the branches enters a canal in the bone by which it is conducted to the teeth, and gives forwards a communicating filament to the anterior dental nerve. It ends in filaments to the molar teeth and the lining mem- brane of the maxillary sinus, and near the teeth joins a second time with the anterior dental nerve. The anterior of the two branches, lying on the surface of the bone, is distributed to the gums of the upper jaw and to the buccinator muscle. ANTERIOR DENTAL BRANCH. The anterior dental branch, leaving the trunk of the nerve at a varying distance behind its exit from the infra-orbital foramen, enters a special canal in front of the antrum of Highmore. In this canal it receives the com- municating filament from the posterior dental nerve, and divides into two branches, which furnish offsets for the front teeth. (a) The inner branch supplies the incisor and canine teeth. Filaments from this nerve enter the lower meatus of the nose, and end in the membrane covering the lower spongy bone. Also above the root of the canine tooth, it unites with a branch of the posterior nasal nerve from Meckel's ganglion, and forms with it a small thickening,