787 THE DEXTAL TUBULES. far correspond, that the tubes are on the whole nearly parallel, being only slightly divergent as they pass towards the surface ; and as they divide several times dichotomously, and at first without being much diminished in size, they continue to occupy the substance of the dentine with nearly equi- distant tubes, and thus produce, when seen in fine sections of the tooth made parallel to their course, a striated appearance, as if the dentine were made up of fine parallel fibres. The concurrence of many of these parallel curvatures of the dental tubuli produces, by the manner in which they reflect the light, an appearance of concentric undulations in the dentine, which may be well seen with a low magnifying power. This, however, is not to be confounded with another set of curved marks called contour lines, which depend on conditions of the matrix, and will be afterwards described. The average diameter of each tubule near its inner and larger end is -^-^-^th. of an inch, and the distance between adjacent tubules is about two or three times their width. (Retzius.) From their sides numerous immeasurably fine branches are given off, which penetrate the hard intertubular substance, where they either anastomose or terminate blindly. These lateral ramusclea are said to be more abundant in the fang. Near the periphery of the ivory they are very numerous, and, together with the main tubules themselves, which there, by rapid division and subdivision, also become very fine, ter- minate by joining together in loops, or end in little dilatations, or in the cells of the granular layer to be described. The dental tubules, when highly magnified, appear like dark lines against transmitted light, but are white when seen upon a black ground. Their tubular character is proved by the fact that ink, or other coloured fluids, together with minute bells of air, can be made to pass along them, in sections of dry teeth. Their walls, in transverse sections, may often appear thicker than they are in reality, owing to a certain length of the tubes being seen in the section : but if the orifice of the canal is brought exactly into focus, the wall appears as only a very thin, yel- lowish border ; and, indeed, KoUiker denies the existence of any wall distinct from the matrix. From the researches of Nasmyth, Tomes and Kolliker, it appears that in the recent state the tubules are filled with substance (dental fibres), continuous with the pulp of the tooth : and it is suggested by Tomes that this is not only subservient to the nutrition of the dentine, but probably also confers on it a certain degree of sensibility. It has been noticed, indeed, that the dentine is more sensitive near the surface than deeper in its substance,—a fact not easily intelligible on the supposition that the sentient tissue is confined to the pulp cavity. In the temporary, and sometimes even in the permanent teeth, the tubules are constricted at short intervals, so as to present a moniliform character. The terminal branches of tubules are occasionally seen to pass on into the cement which covers the fang, and to communicate with the small ramified canals of the characteristic lacunse found in that osseous layer. Tubules have likewise been observed by Tomes passing on into the enamel, more especially in the teeth of marsupial animals, but in a less marked degree in human teeth. The intertubular substance is translucent. The animal matter which remains in it, after the earthy matter has been removed by an acid, exhibits a tendency to tear in the direction of the tubules, but is in reality a homogenous substance, deposited in a laminated manner. This was shown by Sharpey, who observed that in the softened teeth of the cachalot or sperm whale the animal substance was readily torn into fine lamellse, disposed parallelly with the internal surface of the pulp cavity, and there- 3 F 2