849 Sheep (from Frey), 122 SOLTTAT^Y GLAISTDS. --BKUNNER'S GLAKDS. Fig. 594,—Lymphoid or Retiform Tissue op Fig. 594 Still smaller irregularly-shaped clusters of these capsules are found scat- tered throughout the intestine, and may be regarded as transitions to the next form of glands named solitary. THE Intestinal Mucous Membrane of the The figure represents a cross section of a small fragment of the mucous meiubrane, in- cluding one entire crypt of Lieberklihn and parts of several others: a, cavity of the tubular glands or crypts ; h, one of the lining epithelial cells; c, the lymphoid or retiform spaces, of which some are empty, and others occupied by lymph cells, as at d. The solitary glands (glandulse soli- tarise) are soft, white, rounded, and slightly prominent bodies, about the size of a millet-seed, which are found scattered over the mucous membrane in every part of the small intestine. They are found on the mesenteric as well as on the free border, between and upon the valvulse conniventes, and are rather more numerous in the lower portion of the bowel. These small glands have no orifice, but consist of closed vesicles or capsules, exactly resembling those forming the clusters of Peyer's glands, having rather thick but easily destructible walls, and usually Fig. 595.—Solitary Vesicular Gland op the Small Intes- Fig. 595. TINE (from Boehm). i2 The lighter part of the figure represents the elevation pro- duced by the gland ; on this a few villi are seen, and on the surrounding surface of the mucous membrane numerous villi and crypts of Lieberkiihn. containing in their interior an opaque, semifluid sub- stance, which abounds in cells and fine granules. The free surface of the capsules, which is slightly elevated when they are full, is beset with the intestinal villi ; and, placed around them very irregularly, are seen the open mouths of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. Brunnerh glands are small rounded compound glands, first pointed out by Brunner, which exist in the duodenum, where they are most numerous at the upper end, in general occupying thickly a space of some inches in extent from the pylorus. According to Huschke, a few of them are also found quite at the commencement of the jejunum. They are imbedded in the areolar tunic, and may be exposed by dissecting off the muscular coat from the outside of the intestine. They are true compound racemose glands, consisting of minute lobules, and containing branched ducts, which open upon the inner surface of the intestine. Their secretion is an alkaline mucus, in which there are no formed elements ; and it has no digestive action upon coagulated albumen. (KoUiker.) Vessels and Nerves.—The branches of the mesenteric artery, having reached the attached border of the intestine, pass round its sides, dividing into numerous rami- fications and frequently anastomosing at its free border. Most of the larger branches 3 K