1030 SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF HERNI/E. size, the obliquity of the inguinal canal no longer remains,—the internal ring being enlarged and brought inwards opposite the external one,—while at the same time the epigastric artery, borne inwards by the hernia, curves along the inner side of the sac. Under this change, the oblique hernia assumes the appearance of one primarily direct. Operations for the relief of incjuinal hernia.—This account of the dispo- sition of the parts connected with the different forms of inguinal hernia may be concluded by a brief statement of the application of the anatomical facts in practical surgery, either in simply replacing the hernial protrusion, or in the operation required to attain that object when the hernia is other- wise irreducible. In the efforts to effect the replacement of the protruded parts (the ta"xis), it is to be borne in mind that the abdominal muscles, which, in most cases, are the sole obstacle to the attainment of that end, become relaxed to some extent by flexing the thigh and inclining the trunk forwards. The direction, too, which the protruded part follows through the abdominal walls, ought to influence the direction given to the pressure required in restoring it. When the operation required to set free the constriction which prevents the restoration of the protruded viscus to the abdomen is undertaken, the parts covering the hernia or a portion of it at the upper end, are to be divided, so as to allow the introduction of a knife beneath the " stricture" ; and this (the stricture) will be found at the external ring, or, more fre- quently, at the internal one. To accomplish the object, the tendon of the external oblique is to be laid bare by an incision beginning somewhat above the upper end of the hernia, and extending downwards below the external ring. If, on examination, the stricture should be ascertained to be at the last-named opening, the division of a few fibres of its circumference will allow a suflicient dilatation for the replacement of the hernia ; but if, as generally happens, the seat of the stricture should prove to be higher up,— in the inguinal canal or at the internal ring,—the aponeurosis of the external oblique is to be cut through over the canal, and the lower edge of the in- ternal muscles, one of which commonly constitutes the stricture, is then to be divided on a director insinuated beneath them. In the operation indicated in the last paragraph, the sac of the hernia is supposed to be left unopened,—the course which it is best to adopt when the stricture is external to that membrane. Occasionally, however, it happens that the sac itself is the cause of the constriction. When this is the case, or when from some other reason the surgeon is unable, after such an operation as that above noticed, to replace the hernia, it becomes necessary to lay the sac open, in order to divide the constriction at its neck. When the incision required in the last-mentioned step of the operation is being made, the epigastric artery is not to be overlooked. From the position that vessel holds with respect to the oblique and direct forms of hernia respectively, it necessarily follows that an incision outwards through the neck of the sac, in the former variety of the disease, and inwards in the latter, would be free from risk on account of the artery ; but, inasmuch as the oblique hernia is liable, in time, to assume the appearance of one pri- marily direct, and a want of certainty as to the diagnosis must, on this account, exist in certain cases,—as, moreover, it is advantageous to pursue one course which will be applicable in every case,—the rule generally adopted by surgeons in all operations for inguinal hernise, is to carry the incision through the neck of the sac directly upwards from its middle.