STRUCTURE OF THE CORPUS SPONGIOSUM. 959 less distinctly, a subdivision into two lateral portions or lobes, separated by a slight furrow on the surface, and by a slender fibrous partition within, which extends for a short distance forwards ; in early infancy this is more marked. It is above this part that the urethra, having pierced the tri- angular ligament, enters the bulb, surrounded obliquely by a portion of the spongy tissue, named by Kobelt the colliculus bulbi, from which a layer of venous erectile tissue passes back upon the membranous portion of the urethra, and also upon the prostatic part, to the neck of the bladder, lying closely beneath the mucous membrane. At first the urethra is nearer the upper than the lower part of the corpus spongiosum, but it soon gains and continues to occupy the middle of that body. Structure.—This is essentially the same as that of the corpora caver- nosa, oTily more delicate, or with a much less quantity of the fibrous trabecular structure. Like the corpora cavernosa, it is distended with blood during erection ; but never acquires the same hardness. The outer fibrous tunic is much thinner, is less white in colour, and contains more elastic tissue ; the areolae are smaller, and directed for the most part with their long diameter corresponding to that of the penis ; the trabeculjje are finer and more equal in size ; and the veins form a nearly uniform plexus between them ; in the glans the meshes of this plexus are smallest and most uniform. Immediately surrounding the canal of the urethra, and, again, forming part of the external coat of the spongy substance, there are plain muscular fibres, which are continuous posteriorly with those of the bladder. The helicine arteries are found in the spongy body, except- ing in the part which forms the glans penis. A considerable artery derived from the internal pudic enters the bnlb on each side, and supplies the greater part of the spongy body, sending branches as far as the glans penis, which, however, is chiefly supplied by the arteria dorsalis. Besides these, Kobelt describes, as constantly present, another but much smaller branch of the pudic artery, which, he says, enters the bulb on the upper surface, about an inch from its posterior extremity, and runs forwards in the corpus spongi- osum to the glans. Veins issue from the glans and adjoining part of the spongy body, to end in the vena dorsalis penis ; those of the rest of the spongy body for the most part pass out backwards through the bulb, and end in the prostatic and pudic venous plexuses : some emerge from beneath the corpora cavernosa, anastomose with their vein^, and end partly in the cutaneous venous system of the penis and scrotum, and partly in the pudic and obturator veins. The lymphatics of the penis form a dense network on the skin of the glans and prepuce, and also underneath the mucous lining of the urethra. They terminate chiefly in the inguinal glands. Deep-seated lymphatics are also described as issuing from the cavernous and spongy bodies, and passing under the pubic arch with the deep veins, to join the lymphatic plexuses in the pelvis. The nerves of the penis are derived from the pudic nerve and from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic (pp. 671 and 703). They terminate by frequent division, and present indistinct traces of the so-called corpuscula tactus ; on the glans and bulb of the urethra, some fibres of the cutaneous nerves end in Pacinian bodies. URETHRA OF THE MALE. The male urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis. Its total length is about eight inches and a-half, but varies