THE THYROID BODY. 920 ossification; this commences first in the thyroid cartilage, then appears in the cricoid, and lastly in the arytenoid cartilages. In the thyroid cartilage the ossification nsually begins at the cornua and posterior borders; it then gradually extends along the whole inferior border, and subsequently spreads upwards through the cartilage. The cricoid cartilage first becomes ossified at its tipper border upon each side, near the two pos- terior articular eminences, and the ossification invades the lateral parts of the cartilage before encroaching on it either in front or behind. The arytenoid cartilages become ossified from below upwards. Ductless glands on the Larynx and Trachea. 1. the thyroid body. The thyroid body or gland is a soft reddish and highly vascular organ, situated in the lower part of the neck, embracing the front and sides of the upper part of the trachea, and reaching up to the sides of the larynx. It belongs, like the spleen, to the series of structures known as ductless glands ; and although its precise function is unascertained, there is reason to believe that it is in some way connected with the elaboration of the blood. The thyroid body is of an irregular, semilunar form, consisting of two lateral lohes, united together towards their lower ends by a transverse por- tion named the isthmus. Viewed as a whole, it is convex on the sides and in front, forming a rounded projection upon the trachea and larynx. It is covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles, and behind them it comes into contact with the sheath of the great vessels of the neck. Its deep surface is concave where it rests against the trachea Fig. 614. Fig. 644.—Sketch showing the Form and Position OF THE ThYIvOID BoDY. 1 The larynx and surrounding parts are viewed from before ; on the right side the muscles covering the thyroid body are retained, on the left side they are removed : h, hyoid bone ; th, right thyro-hyoid mus- cle ; oh, omo-hyoid; sh, sterno-hyoid; st, sterno- thyroid ; c, on the crico-thyroid membrane above the cricoid cartilage, points by a dotted line to the right crico-thyroid muscle; tr, the trachea; oe, the oeso- phagus appearing behind and slightly to the left of the trachea ; t, the right lobe of the thyroid body partially seen between the muscles ; t', the left lobe entirely exposed ; i, the isthmus ; If, the fibrous or muscular band termed levator thyroidese, which is occasionally found in the middle line or to the left side, and which existed in the case from which the figure was taken. and larynx. It usually extends so far back as to touch the lower portion of the pharynx, and on the left side the oesophagus also. Each lateral lobe measures usually two inches or upwards in length, an inch and a quarter in breadth, and three-quarters of an inch in thickness at its largest part, which is below its middle : the right lobe is usually a few lines longer and wider than the left. The general direction of each lobe is, from below, obliquely upwards and backwards, reaching from the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea to the pos- terior border of the thyroid cartilage, of which it covers the inferior cornu and adjoining part of the ala. The upper end of the lobe, which is thinner,