611 FACIAL NERVE. panum it is turned suddenly backwards above the fenestra ovalis towards the pyramid. At the place where it bends, the nerve presents a reddish gangli- form enlargement, sometimes called the geniculate ganglion, which marks the place of junction of several nerves. Opposite the pyramid it is arched down- wards behind the tympanum to the stylo-mastoid foramen, by which it leaves the osseous canal. It is then continued forwards through the substance of the parotid gland, and separates in the gland, behind the ramus of the lower maxilla, into two primary divisions, the temporo-facial and the cervico- facial, from which numerous branches spread out over the side of the head, the face, and the upper part of the neck, forming what is known as the " pes an serin us." Within the temporal bone the facial is connected with several other nerves by separate branches ; and immediately after issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it gives off three small branches, viz., the posterior auricular, digastric, and stylo-hyoid. Fig. 411.—The Facial Nerve Fig. 411. EXPOSED IN ITS CanAL, WITH ITS Connecting Branches, &c. (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). f The mastoid and a part of the petrous bone have been divided nearly vertically, and the canal of the facial nerve opened in its whole extent from the meatus internus to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The Vidian canal has also been opened from the outside, 1, facial nerve in the horizontal part of the com- mencement of the canal ; 2, its second part turning backwards ; 3, its vertical portion ; A, the nerve at its exit from the stylo- mastoid foramen ; 5, geniculate ganglion ; 6, large superficial pe- trosal nerve passing from this ganglion to the spheno-palatine ganglion, and joined by the small internal petrosal branch ; 7, spheno palatine ganglion ; 8, small superficial petrosal nerve; 9, chorda tympani; 10, posterior auricular branch cut short at its origin ; 11, branch for the digastric muscle ; 12, branch for the stylo-hyoid muscle ; 13, twig to the stylo-glossus muscle uniting with muscular bi'anches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (14 and 15). CONNECTING BRANCHES. Filaments of union with the auditory nerve.—In the meatus auditorius one or two minute filaments pass between the facial and the trunk of the auditory nerve. Nerves connected with the gangliform enlargement.—About two lines from the beginning of the aqueduct of Fallopius, where the facial nerve swells into the gangli- form enlargement, it is joined by the large superficial petrosal branch from the Vidian nerve. This ganglion likewise receives a small branch from the small superficial petrosal nerve which unites the otic ganglion with the tympanic nerve of Jacobson. The nerve beyond the ganglion receives the external superficial petrosal nerve (Bidder), which is furnished by the sympathetic accompanying the middle meningeal artery, and enters the temporal bone by a canal external to that traversed by the small superficial petrosal. CHORDA TYMPANI AND NERVE TO THE STAPEDIUS. The nerve named chorda tympani leaves the trunk of the facial while within its canal, and crosses the tympanum to join the gustatory nerve, along which it is con-