1022 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HERNL^. the margin of the muscle with its tendon has a semicircular direction with respect to the aperture. The tendinous fibres in which the fleshy parts of the two preceding muscles end, are connected together so as to form one layer, which is named the "conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transverse muscles." This tendon is fixed to the crest of the pubes in front of the rectus muscle, and likewise to the pectineal ridge. It is thus behind the external abdo- minal ring, and serves to strengthen the wall of the abdomen where it is weakened by the presence of that opening. A band of tendinous fibres, directed upwards and inwards over the conjoined tendon in a triangular form gives additional strength to the abdominal wall in the same situation, but the fibres of this structure are often very indistinct. Where the spermatic cord is in apposition with the preceding muscle, the cremaster muscle of the testis descends over it. The fibres which com- pose this muscle are, from their colour, more easily distinguished than the other investments of the cord ; and this is especially the case in robust persons ; or when they are hypertrophied, as sometimes happens in cases of long-standing hernia. The outer part of the cremaster is much larger than the portion connected with the pubes ; and the latter is sometimes absent (p. 253). When observed in different bodies the lower parts of the internal oblique and transverse muscles present some differences in their i)hysical characters as well as in the manner in which they are disposed with respect to the spermatic cord. Thus :— a. The transversalis, in some cases, is attached to but a small part of Pouparfc's ligament, and leaves, therefore, a larger part of the abdominal wall without its sup- port. On the other hand, that muscle may be found to extend so low down as to cover the internal abdominal ring together with the spermatic cord, for a short space. Not infrequently the fleshy fibres of the two muscles are blended together as well as their tendons. 6. Cases occasionally occur in which the spermatic cord, instead of escaping beneath the margin of the internal oblique, is found to pass through the muscle, so that some muscular fibres are below as well as above it. And examples of the transversalis being penetrated by that structure in the same manner are recorded.* c. In his latest account of the structure of these parts Sir A. Cooper described the lower edge of the transversalis as curved all round the internal ring and the spermatic cord. " But the lower edge of the transversalis has a very peculiar insertion, which I have hinted at in my work on hernia. It begins to be fixed in Poupart's ligament, almost immediately below the commencement of the internal ring, and it continues to be in- serted behind the spermatic cord into Poupart's ligament as far as the attachment of the rectus."+ With this disposition of its fibres, the muscles would, in the opinion of the last-cited authority, have the effect of a sphincter, in closing the internal ring, and would thus tend to prevent the occurrence of hernia. But the principal object with which the attention of surgeons has been fixed on the muscles in this situation, is in order to account for the active strangulation of hernial protrusions at the internal abdominal ring, and in the inguinal canal. Fascia transversalis.—This membrane is described as part of the general lining of the abdominal walls (p. 258). Closely connected with the trans- versalis muscle by means of the areolar tissue interposed between the fleshy fibres of the muscle, it is united below to the posterior edge of Poupart's * Recherches Anatomiques sur Ics Hernias, &c., par J. Cloquet, p. 18 and 23. Paris, 1817. Inguinal and Femoral Heriiise, by Gr. J. Guthrie, plate I. London, 1833. t Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, second edition, p. 36. Ed. by Bransby B. Cooper, F.R.S. London, 1841.