623 BEANCHES OF PNEUMO-GASTPJC NERYE. CARDIAC BRANCHES. Branches to the heart are given ofif by the pneumo-gastric nerve both in the neck and in the thorax. The cervical cardiac branches arise at both the upper and the lower part of the neck. The upper branches are small, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. The lower, a single branch, arises as the pneumo-gastric nerve is about to enter the chest. On the right side this branch lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins one of the cardiac nerves destined for the deep cardiac plexus ; it gives some filaments to the coats of the aorta. The branch of the left side crosses the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. The thoracic cardiac branches of the right side leave the trunk of the pneumo-gastric as this nerve lies by the side of the trachea, and some are aLso derived from the first part of the recurrent branch : they pass inwards on the air-tube, and end in the deep cardiac plexus. The corresponding branches of the left side come from the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. PULMONARY BRANCHES. Two sets of pulmonary branches are distributed from the pneumo-gastric nerve to the lung ; and they reach the root of the lung, one on its fore part, the other on its posterior aspect. The anterior pulmonary nerves, two or three in number, are of small size. They join with filaments of the sympathetic ramified on the pulmonary artery, and with these nerves constitute the anterior pulmonary plexus. Behind the root of the lung the pneumo-gastric nerve becomes flattened, and gives several branches of much larger size than the anterior branches, which, with filaments derived from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, form the posterior pulmonary plexus. Offsets from this plexus extend along the rami- fications of the air-tube through the substance of the lung. (ESOPHAGEAL BRANCHES. The oesophagus within the thorax receives branches from the pneumo- gastric nerves, both above and below the pulmonary branches. The lower branches are the larger, and are derived from the oesophageal plexus, formed by connecting cords between the nerves of the right and left sides, while they lie in contact with the oesophagus. GASTRIC BRANCHES. The branches distributed to the stomach (gastric nerves) are the terminal branches of both pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerve of the left side, on arriving in front of the oesophagus, opposite the cardiac orifice of the stomach, divides into many branches : the largest of these extend over the fore part of the stomach ; others lie along its small curvature, and unite with branches of the right nerve and the sympathetic ; and some filaments are continued between the layers of the small omentum to the hepatic plexus. The right pneumo-gastric nerve descends to the stomach on the back of the gullet and distributes branches to the posterior surface of the organ : a part of this nerve is continued from the stomach to the left side of the coeliac plexus^and to the splenic plexus of the sympathetic. Summary.—The pneumo-gastric nerves supply branches to the upper part of the alimentary canal, viz., the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach with the liver and spleen ; and to the respiratory passages, namely, the larynx,