660 THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. ilio-inguinal nerves, and part of the genito-crural ; and to the latter belong the remaining part of the genito-crural nerve, the external cutaneous, the obturators and the anterior crural nerves. ILIO-HYPOGASmiC AND ILIO-INGUINAL NERVES. These nerves are the upper two branches from the lumbar plexus ; they are both derived from the first lumbar nerve, and have a nearly similar distribution. They become subcutaneous by passing between the broad muscles of the abdomen, and through the outer one, and end in the integu- ment of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female, as well as in the integument covering the gluteal muscles. The extent of distribution of the one is inversely proportional to that of the other. The ilio-hypogastric nerve, emerging from the upper part of the psoas muscle at the outer border, runs obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and there perforating the transverse muscle of the abdomen, gets between that muscle and the internal oblique, and divides into an iliac and a hypogastric branch. (a) The iliac branch pierces the attachment of both oblique muscles, immediately above the iliac crest, and is lost in the integument over the gluteal muscles, behind the distribution of the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve. (6) The hypogastric or abdominal branch passes on between the transverse and internal oblique muscles, and is connected with the ilio-inguinal nerve near the iliac crest. It then perforates the internal oblique muscle, and piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique, a little above the superficial inguinal opening, is distributed to the skin of the abdomen above the pubes. The size of the iliac branch of this nerve varies inversely with that of the lateral cutaneous branch of the twelfth dorsal. The hypogastric branch is not unfrequently joined with the last dorsal nerve between the muscles, near the crest of the innominate bone. The ilio-inguinal nerve, smaller than the preceding, supplies the integu- ment of the groin. Descending obliquely outwards over the quadratus lumborum, it crosses the fibres of the iliacus muscle, being placed lower down than the ilio-hypogastric : it then perforates the transverse muscle further forwards than the ilio-hypogastric ; communicating with that nerve between the abdominal muscles. Then piercing the internal oblique muscle, it descends in the inguinal canal, and emerging at the superficial inguinal ring, is distributed to the skin upon the groin, as well as to that upon the scrotum and penis in the male, or the labium pudendi in the female, com- municating with the inferior pudendal nerve. In its progress this nerve furnishes branches to the internal oblique muscle. The ilio-inguinal nerve occasionally arises from the loop connecting the first and second lumbar nerves. It is sometimes small, and ends near the iliac crest by joining the ilio-hypogastric nerve; in that case the last nerve gives ofi" an inguinal branch having a similar course and distribution to the ilio-inguinal nerve, the place of which it supplies. GENITO-CRURAL NERVE. The genito-crural nerve belongs partly to the external genital organs and partly to the thigh. It is derived chiefly from the second lumbar nerve, but receives also a few fibres from the connecting cord between that and the first nerve. The nerve descends obliquely through the psoas muscle, and afterwards on its fore part, towards Poupart's ligament, dividing at a variable height into an internal or genital, and an external or crural branch.