MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 964 it lies in front of the coujoined tendon of these muscles, tlie fibres of which have arched inwards over it, and its cremasteric covering is in contact anteriorly with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The inguinal canal is therefore said to be bounded posteriorly by the fascia transversalis above and the conjoined tendon below, and anteriorly by fibres of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles above, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle below ; while its floor is formed by the curving backwards of Poupart's ligament, and its roof by the apposition of the layers of the abdominal wall. As it enters the inguinal canal, the cord receives a covering from the infundibuliform fascia, a thin layer continuous with the fascia transversalis, and prolonged down from the margins of the dei'p abdominal ring ; within the canal it receives a covering from the cremaster muscle and fascia con- nected with it; and as it emerges from the canal there is added, superficially to this, the intercolumnar fascia prolonged from the pillars of the superficial abdominal ring. The scrotum.—The scrotum forms a purse-like investment for the testes and part of the spermatic cords. Its condition is liable to certain variations according to the state of the health and other circumstances : thus, it is short and corrugated in robust persons and under the effects of cold, but becomes loose and pendulous in persons of weak constitution, and under the relaxing influence of heat. Its surface is marked ofi" into two lateral halves by a slight median ridge, named the raphe, extending forwards to the under side of the penis, and backwards along the perineum to the margin of the anus. Within the scrotum, the coverings of the cord and testis, as enumerated from without inwards, are the sMn^ superficial fascia and dartos tissue of the scrotum, the inter-columnar fascia, the cremaster muscle and cremasteric fascia, and the infundibuliform fascia, which is united to the cord by a layer of loose areolar tissue ; lastly, the testicle has a special serous tunic, named the tunica vaginalis, which forms a closed sac, and covers the tunica albuginea or proper ^6ro«s coat of the gland. 1. The skin in this situation is very thin, and is of a darker colour than elsewhere ; it is generally thrown into rugae or folds, which are more or less distinct according to the circumstances already mentioned. It is furnished with sebaceous follicles, the secretion from which has a peculiar odour, and it is covered over with thinly-scattered crisp and flattened hairs, the bulbs of which may be seen or felt through the skin when the scrotum is extended. The superficial blood-vessels are also readily distinguished through this thin integument. 2. Immediately beneath the skin of the scrotum there is found a thin layer of a peculiar loose reddish-brown tissue,* end owed with contractility, and named the dartos tunic. This subcutaneous layer is continuous with the super- ficial fascia of the groin, perineum, and inner side of the thighs, but acquires a difierent structure, and is perfectly free from fat. The dartoid tissue is more abundant on the fore part of the scrotum than behind, and, moreover, it forms two distinct sacs, which contain the corresponding testes, and are united together along the middle line so as to establish a median partition between the two glands, named the septum scroti, which is adherent below to the deep surface of the raphe and reaches upwards to the root of the penis. The dartos is very vascular, and owes its contractile properties to the presence of a considerable amount of unstriped muscular tissue. Its con- tractility is slow in its action ; it is excited by the application of cold and of