608 THE CRANIAL NERVES. where the nerve is in contact with the submaxillary gland. Others form a plexus with branches of the hypoglossal nerve at the inner border of the hyoglossus muscle. (b) Branches to the mucous membrane of the mouth are given from the nerve at the side of the tongue, and supply also the gums. Some delicate filaments are like- wise distributed to the substance of the sublingual gland, (c) The lingual or terminal branches perforate the muscular structure of the tongue, and divide into filaments, which are continued almost vertically upwards to the coni- cal and fungiform papillae. Near the tip of the tongue the branches of the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves are united. INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. The inferior dental nerve is the largest of the three branches of the lower maxillary nerve. It descends under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, behind and to the outer side of the gustatory nerve, and passing between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, enters the inferior dental canal. In com- pany with the dental artery, it proceeds along this canal, and supplies branches to the teeth. At the mental foramen it bifurcates ; one part, the incisor branch, being continued onwards within the bone to the middle line, while the other, the much larger labial branch, escapes by the foramen to the face. When about to enter the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, the inferior dental nerve gives off the slender mylo-hyoid branch. (a) The mylo-hyoid branch is lodged in a groove on the inner surface of the ramus of the maxillary bone, in which it is confined by fibrous membrane, and is distributed to the lower or cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoideus and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. This nerve may be traced back within the sheath of the inferior dental to the motor portion of the inferior maxillary nerve. (b) The dental branches supplied to the molar and bicuspid teeth correspond to the number of the fangs of those teeth. Each branch enters the minute foramen in the extremity of a fang, and terminates in the pulp of the tooth. Not unfrequently a collateral branch supplies twigs to several teeth. (c) The incisor branch has the same direction as the trunk of the nerve : it extends to the middle line from the point of origin of the labial branch, and supplies nerves to the canine and incisor teeth. {d) The labial or mental branch emerging from the bone by the foramen on the outer surface, divides beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth into two parts:— One of these, the outer division, communicating with the facial nerve, supplies the depressor anguli oris and orbicularis oris muscles, and the integument of the chin. The inner portion, the larger of the two, ascends to the lower lip beneath the de- pressor labii inferioris muscle, to which it gives filaments : the greater number of the branches end on the inner and outer surfaces of the lip. These inner branches assist only slightly in forming the plexus of union with the facial nerve. OTIC GANGLION. The otic ganglion, or ganglion of Arnold, of a reddish grey colour, is situated on the deep surface of the lower maxillary trunk, nearly at the point of junction of the motor fasciculus with that nerve, and around the origin of the internal pterygoid branch. Its inner surface is close to the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube and the circumflexus palati muscle ; and behind it is the middle meningeal artery. Connection vith nerves—roots.—The ganglion is connected with the lower maxillary nerve, especially with the branch furnished to the internal pterygoid muscle, and with the auriculo-temporal nerve, and thus obtains motor and sensory roots ; it is brought into connection with the sympa-