706 THE EYE. of glandular folliclef?, and named the caruncula lachrymalis. The plica semilunaris is the rudiment of the third eyelid (membraua nictitans) found in some animals. Structure of the lids.—The skin covering the eyelids is thin and delicate ; and at the line of the eyelashes, altered in its character, it joins the con- junctival mucous membrane which lines the inner surface of the lids. Be- neath the skin, and between it and the conjunctiva, the following structures are successively met with, viz.:—The fibres of the orbicularis muscle ; loose connective tissue ; the tarsal cartilages, together with a thin fibrous mem- brane, the palpebral ligament, which attaches them to the margin of the orbit ; and, finally, the Meibomian glands. In the upper eyelid there is, in addition, the insertion of the levator palpebrae superioris, in the form of a fibrous expansion fixed to the anterior surface of the tarsal cartilage. Fig. 456. Fig. 456.—Vertical Section or the Left Orbit and its Contents. Tbe section has been carried through the middle of the optic foramen and optic nerve ohliquely as far as the back of the eyeball, and thence forward through the eyeball, eyelids, &c., in an antero-posterior direction, a, the frontal bone ; b, the superior maxillary bone ; e, the eyebrow with the orbicularis palpebrarum, integument, &c., divided ; d, the upper, and d', the lower eyelid, partially open, showing the section of the tarsal cartilages and other component parts, the eyelashes, &c. ; e, e, the reflection of the conjunctiva from the upper and lower eyelids to the surface of the eyeball ; /, the levator palpebrse superioris muscle ; g, the upper, g', the lower rectus muscle ; h, the inferior oblique muscle divided ; 1, 1, the optic nerve divided in its sheath ; '2, the cornea ; 2', the sclerotic ; 3, the aqueous chamber; 4, the crystalline lens; 5, the centre of the vitreous humour. The fibres of the orhicidaris muscle are closely adherent to the skin by fine connective tissue, entirely devoid of fat. A marginal fasciculus of its fibres has been found within the line of the eyelashes, separated by the bulbs of the lashes from the other fibres, and constituting the ciliary muscle of Riolan. The fibres of the orbicular muscle, while adherent to the skin, glide loosely on the tarsal cartilages. The tarsal cartilages (tarsi) are two thin elongated plates of cartilage of the yellow kind placed one in each lid, and serving to give shape and firm- ness to those parts. The upper cartilage, the larger, is half oval in form.