PARTS WITHIN THE PELVIS. 1077 the white band stretching from the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, which marks the level at which the pelvic fascia splits into the recto-vesical and obturator fascise ; while in the upper part of the obturator foramen the obturator vessels and nerve will be seen issuing from the interior. If the ischio-rectal fossa be now thoroughly cleaned, a complete view of the layers of fascia will be obtained, and of their relation to the levator ani muscle (p. 260). The brim of the pelvis is next to be sawn through near the symphysis pubis, on the side on which the dissection has been made, and is to be removed. By this means, if the subject be a male, the relations of the fascia to the prostate gland will be better seen. The ureters and the vasa deferentia are to be followed as far as the bladder; the sympathetic nerves of the hypogastric plexus are to be traced in their dis- tribution to the pelvic viscera (p. 702) ; and the branches of the internal iliac vessels are to be dissected. The internal iliac artery will be found to give off to the walls of the pelvis and to the external parts, the gluteal, ilio- lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries, constituting the branches of its posterior division ; the obturator, internal pudic, and sciatic arteries in connection with its anterior division : while to the viscera it supplies the superior vesical with the obliterated hypogastric artery, the inferior vesical giving the middle hfemorrhoidal, and, in the female, the uterine and vaginal arteries (p. 420), The first group may perhaps be best seen on the entire side, and the second and third group on the dissected side of the pelvis. On the former side the sacral nerves are to be displayed (p. 268), and the origin of the pyriformis muscle examined. The junction of the lumbo- sacral cord with the anterior divisions of the three first sacral nerves and a branch of the fourth, to form the sacral plexus, will now be brought into view (p. 669). The gluteal nerve will be found arising from the lumbo- sacral cord (p. 667) ; and arising from the sacral plexus will be found the great and small sciatic nerves, the pudic nerve, the nerve to the obturator internus muscle, and other muscular branches (p. 670). The remaining branches of the fourth sacral nerve will be found to aid the hypogastric plexus in the supply of nerves to the viscera : at the same time the small fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves may also be dissected (p. 668). The coccygeus and levator ani muscles are to be cleaned on their upper aspects, when they will be seen to form a continuous muscular floor to the pelvic cavity (p. 262). The chains of sympathetic ganglia are then to be dissected in front of the sacrum, and, if possible, the lowest parts traced to their junction in front of the coccyx (p. 696). 9. Pelvic Viscera.—It may be proper to examine the muscular walls of the bladder in the inflated condition of the organ, before its removal from the pelvis (p. 944); after which the viscera are to be separated from their attachments to the walls of the pelvis, and removed in one mass. The rectum may then be carefully dissected away from the rest of the viscera, the extent of its connection with them being at the same time observed (p. 866). Its muscular coats having been sufficiently examined, it is to be slit open and washed, in order that the general appearance and folds of its mucous membrane may be seen. In the male subject the prostate gland enveloped in its fibrous covering, the vesiculse seminales, and the vasa deferentia are to be carefully dissected (pp. 952 and 971) ; the bladder is to be opened from before, the neck being left in the first instance entire ; and the openings of the ureters and urethra, with the trigone between them, are to be examined (p. 948). The prostatic, membranous, and bulbous parts of the urethra are then to be slit open from above, the varying dia-