THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. 543 Although it presents a few longitudinal white fibres on its surface, the corpus cal- losum consists almost entirely of fibres having a transverse course towards each side, and spreading in a radiating manner into the substance of the two hemispheres. As the transverse fibres from the anterior and posterior lobes of the cerebrum are necessarily aggregated in large numbers near the corresponding ends of the corpus callosum, its greater thickness at those points, in comparison with the rest of its extent, is accounted for; and since the posterior lobe reaches further beyond the corpus callo- sum than the anterior, the greater thickness behind is also explained. Lateral Ventricles, or, ventriculi tricornes.—By dividing the fibres of the corpus callosum in a longitudinal direction at a short distance on eack side of the middle line, and about midway between the two ends of the hemispheres, an opening is made into the right and left lateral ventricles of the brain. These ventricles form part of the general ventricular space within the cerebrum ; they are serous cavities, and are lined by a delicate epitheliated structure, the ejpendyma ventriculorum, which at certain parts in the adult, and probably throughout its whole extent in the foetus, is pro- vided with cilia. In the natural state, the walls of the ventricles are moist- ened internally with a serous fluid, which sometimes exists in considerable quantity, even in a healthy brain. It was formerly a subject of dispute whether the lining of the ventricles consisted of epithelium only, or also of a membrane. The progress of the histology of the brain has soh^ed the problem in a manner which leaves the disputants on both sides partially in the right. It is now recognised, that a peculiar form of connective tissue is found throughout the substance of the brain, similar to that which has been described in the spinal cord. A layer of this substance, unmixed with nerve tissues, but in direct continuity with the interstitial web, and not a distinct membrane, supports the epithelium. It is of the same nature as the substance immediately surrounding the central canal of the spinal cord, and is named by Yirchow neuroglia (Virchow's Cellular Pathology," by Chance, p. 273). The form of the epithelial cells appears to vary in difierent parts, these cells being, according to Kolliker, of the flat pavement kind in the third ventricle, and more spherical in the lateral ventricles; and, according to Gerlach, cylindrical in the aqueductus Sylvii. From the central part or body of each lateral ventricle the cavity is extended into each of the three lobes of the hemisphere, thus forming an anterior J a posterior, and a middle or descending cornu. The body of each lateral ventricle is roofed in by the corpus callosum, and is separated from its fellow by a vertical partition, the septum lucidum., which descends from the corpus callosum to the fornix. In the floor of the ventricle there is seen most posteriorly one half of the fornix, which is a thin layer of white brain-substance, broad behind and narrow in front : external and anterior to this is the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, a red vascular fringe, forming the border of the velum interpositum, a fold of pia mater extending inwards, on which the fornix rests : external and anterior to the choroid plexus is the anterior and outer part of the optic thalamus, appearing from beneath it : outside and in front of the thalamus is the corpus striatum ; and between those two bodies is a narrow flat band, the taenia semicircularis. The anterior cornu is the blind anterior extremity of the ventricle, pro- jecting a little way into the anterior lobe. It is covered by the corpus callosum, and turns forwards and outwards round the anterior free extremity of the corpus striatum, descending as it proceeds, and bounded behind by that body, and in front by the reflected part of the corpus callosum. The middle or descending cornu turns round the back part of the optic