THE UEETERS. 942 ganglia upontlicm before entering the organ. The nerves arc especially numerous in the lower half, and inner border. Accessory snprarenal ccq^sules are occasionally met -with, attached by connective tissue to the main bodies; and varying from a small size up to that of a pea. According to Duckworth, they possess no medullary part. On the subject of the suprarenal capsules may be consulted,—Ecker, Der feinerc Bau der Kebennieren, Braunschweig, 184G ; Simon on the Thymus Gland; Frey, article " Suprarenal Capsules," in Cyclop, of Anat, and Phys.; Harley, in the Lancet, June, 1853; Duckworth, in St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Eeports, 1865; Moers, in Yirchow's Archiv, 18G4, vol. xxix. p. 33G ; J. Arnold, Yirchow's Archiv, 1866, vol. xxxv. p. 64; Leidig, KiiUiker, Luschka, and Henle, in their Handbooks. Function.—li^othing is known positively with regard to the functions of the supra- renal capsules. The opinion which has met with most acceptance among physiologists is that these bodies belong to the class of blood-vascular glands, and exert some influence upon the elaboration or disintegration of nutritive material, Bergmann, however, who was the first to point out the richness of their nervous suppl}', suggested that they were parts of the sympathetic nervous system, and in this opinion he has been followed by Leidig and Luschka; while Kolliker states that, upon anatom/ical grounds, he is inclined to consider the cortical and medullary portions as functionally different ; the former belonging to the group of vascular or ductless glands, the latter appearing to be an apparatus appertaining to the nervous system. Brown-Scquard found that injuries to the spinal cord in its dorsal region produced congestion and subsequent hypertrophy of the suprarenal bodies. Addison has shown that a bronzed tint of skin, together with progressive emaciation and loss of strength, is to be found in con- junction with various forms of disease more or less involving and altering the structure of these bodies. THE URETERS. The weters are two tubes which conduct the urine from the kidneys into the bladder. The upper, dilated, funnel-shaped commencement of each in the pelvis of the kidney, into which the calyces pour their contents, has already been described. Towards the lower part of the hilus of the kidney the pelvis becomes gradually contracted, and opposite the lower end of the gland, assuming the cylindrical form, receives the name of ureter. These tubes extend downwards to the posterior and under part or base of the bladder, into which they open, after passing obliquely through its coats. The ureters measure from fourteen to sixteen inches in length, and their ordinary width is about that of a goose-quill. They are frequently, how- ever, dilated at intervals, especially near their lower end. The narrowest part of the tube, excepting its orifice, is that contained in the walls of the bladder. Each ureter passes, at first, obliquely downwards and inwards, to enter the cavity of the true pelvis, and then curves forwards, and inwards, to reach the side and base of the bladder. In its whole course, it lies close behind the peritoneum, and is connected to neighbouring parts by loose areolar tissue. Superiorly, it rests upon the psoas muscle, and is crossed, very obliquely from within outwards, below the middle of the psoas, by the spermatic vessels, which descend in front of it. The right ureter is close to the inferior vena cava. Lower down, the ureter passes over the common iliac, or the external iliac vessels, behind the termination of the ileum on the right side and the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. Descending into the pelvis, it enters the fold of peritoneum forming the corresponding posterior false ligament of the bladder, and reaching the side of the bladder near the base, runs downwards and forwards in contact with it, below the obliterated hypogastric artery, and is crossed upon its inner side, in the male.