848 THE INTESTINE. open glands, there is not sufficient evidence to show whether their contents pass into the intestinal tube or into the lacteals, from which they are as completely sepa- rated by intervening texture. The facts which have been ascertained as to their minute structure, and the nature of their contents, seem to bring them rather under the description of vascular glands. It may farther be stated as a point of analogy between them and those structures, that the glands of Peyer belong chiefly to youth. After middle life they become more or less flaccid and empty, and have generally completely disappeared in advanced age. Fig. 593. Fig. 593.—Yertical Section op a portion of a Patch op Peter's Glands, with THE Lacteal Vessels injected (from Frey). 2? The specimen from which the drawing was made was obtained from the body of a man of twenty years of age who died suddenly fi-om an injury, and is from the lower part of the ileum ; the epithelium, not represented in tbe original, is introduced diagrammatically in one part : a, villi, with their lacteals left white ; 6, some of the tubular glands ; c, the muscular layer of the mucous membrane ; d, the cupola or projecting part of Peyer's vesicles; e, their central cavities or substance ; /, the reticulated lacteal vessels occupying the "lymphoid" tissue between the vesicles, joined above by the lacteals from the villi and mucous surface, and passing below into g, the reticulated lacteals under the vesicles of Peyer, which pass into (/', the larger lacteals of the submucous layer i. The observ^ations of Frey and His have further shown that in the intervals between the glands of Peyer and those of Lieberklihn, and also in the substance of the villi, the interstices of the retiform tissue (see Histology, p. Ixxix.) are everywhere occupied by granular cells of the size and appearance of lymph-cells, and very similar to those contained in the capsules of Peyer's glands. In all, from twenty to thirty of these oblong patches may in general be found ; but in young persons dying in health, as many as forty-five have been observed. They are larger and placed at shorter distances from each other, in the lovv^er part of the ileum ; but in the iipper portion of that intestine and in the lower end of the jejunum, the patches occur less and less frequently, become smaller, and are of a nearly circular form ; they may, however, be discovered occasionally in the lower portion of the duo- denum.