THE CEREBELLUM. 526 truncated at its upper part. Below, it is bounded by the diverging posterior pyramids and restiform bodies surmounted by the ligula. It lias already been sufl&ciently described in connection with the medulla oblongata. The lining membrane of the ventricle is continuous with that of the ventricles in the interior of the cerebrum, through the aqueduct of Sylvius, in which situation it is marked by delicate rugse, oblique or longitudinal in direction. At the sides it is reflected from the medulla to the cerebellum, and extends for a considerable distance outwards between the flocculus and the seventh and eighth nerves. At the lower end of the ventricle, there is, as was ascertained by Magendie, a narrow orifice in the membrane by which the cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space. Projecting into the fourth ventricle at each side, and passing from the point of the inferior vermiform process outwards and upwards to the outer border of the restiform bodies, are two small vascular processes, which have been named the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Fig. 35'^. Fig. 358. —Outline Sketch of a Ver- tical Section op the Cerebellum to SHOW THE Corpus Dbntatum in its Medullary Stem. | The section has been carried through the left lateral part of the pons so as to divide the superior peduncle and pass nearly through the middle of the left cerebellar hemisphere. The olivary body has also been divided longitudinally so as to expose in section its corpus dentatum. cr, crus cerebri ; /, fillet; g, corpora quadrigemina; sp, superior peduncle of the cerebellum divided ; mp, middle peduncle or lateral part of the pons Varolii, with fibres passing from it into the white stem ; av, continuation of the white stem radiating towards the arbor vitse of the folia ; cd, corpus dentatum ; o, olivary body with its corpus dentatum ; anterior pyramid. Internal structure of the cerebellum.—The central part is composed of white matter which sends out spreading and gradually thinning layers into the interior of all the laminae, larger and smaller, of the grey substance which form a continuous covering on the surface. In consequence of this arrangement of the white and grey substances, sections of the cerebellum crossing the laminae, and dividing the grey and white substance together, present a beautifully foliated or arborescent appearance, named arbor vitce. This appearance is seen in any vertical section, but it is most perfect in that which passes through the median plane, where the relative quantity of the central white matter is small. The foliations are arranged somewhat pin- nately, the section of each primary lamina having those of secondary laminse clustered round it like leaflets on a stalk. In the lateral hemispheres, where the peduncles enter, the white matter is more abundant ; and if a section be made through either hemisphere half way between its centre and the middle of the vermiform process, it will display a nucleus of grey matter, which is named the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum. This structure, very similar to that already described in the olivary body of the medulla oblongata, presents the appearance of a waved line of compact yellowish brown matter, surrounded by white sub- stance and containing whitish matter within. This line is interrupted at