1021 ANATOMY OF THE GROIN. Internal oblique muscle (p. 250).—After removing the aponeurosis of the external oblique, this muscle is laid bare. The lower fibres are thin and often of a pale colour. Immediately above Poupart's ligament the outer part is muscular, the inner part tendinous. The spermatic cord, when about to escape at the external abdomimvl rin;^, passes bjneath the fleshy part of the muscle. The fibres in this situation varying considerably in direction from those of the rest of the muscle, pass inwards from Toupart's ligament at first nearly parallel with that structure ; and, becoming tendinous, they join with the tendon of the traQSver»alis. Fig. 70(3. Fig. 706. —The Inguin-.vl Canal and Femoral Siieatii fully exposkd. After the removal of the lower part of the external oblique (with the exception of a small slip including Poupart's ligament), the lower portion of the internal oblique has been raised, and thereby the transversalis muscle and fascia have been brought into view. The femoral artery and vein are seen to a small extent, the fascia lata having been turned aside and the sheath of the blood-vessels laid open. 1, external oblique muscle ; '2, internal oblique ; 2', part of same turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle. Upon the last- named muscle is seen a branch of the circumflex iliac artery, with its companion veins ; and some ascending tendinous fibres are seen over the conjoined tendon of the two last- named muscles ; 4, transversalis fascia; 5, spermatic cord covered with the iufundibuli- fonn fascia from the preceding. 6, upper angle of the iliac part of fascia lata; 7, the sheath of the femoral vessels ; 8, femoral artery ; 9, femoral vein ; 10, saphenous vein ; ] 1, a vein joining it. Transversalis muscle.—This muscle (p. 253) does not, in general, extend down as far as the internal oblique ; so that the latter being removed, an interval is observable between the edge of the transversalis and Poupart's ligament, in which the transversalis fascia comes into view ; and in which the spermatic cord is seen after having pen^ trated that fascia. The lower edge of the muscle is commonly close above the opening for the cord in the subjacent membrane, while its tendon curves to the inter side ; so that