INGUINAL HERXIA. ANATOMY OF THE GROIX. 1019 with Poiipart's ligament and the upper end of the fascia lata ; and, after descending over the spermatic cord into the scrotum, it becomes continuous with the membrane of the same kind which covers the perinceum. Its thickness varies much in different persons, on account of the ditiercnt quan- tity of fat contained within its meshes ; but in the scrotum the fascia is devoid of fat ; as it also is elsewhere towards the internal surface, where its density is at the same time augmented. From the varying thickness of this structure on the abdomen and the scrotum, as well as in different persons, it will be inferred that the depth of incision required to divide it in an operation must vary considerably. The superficial vessels of the groin are encased by the fascia, and are held to separate it into two layers. The vessels which ramify over the inguinal canal and the scrotum are the external pudic and epigastric arteries and veins (p. 437 and 475). The veins, especially the epigastric, are consider- ably larger than the arteries they accompany. Some of these vessels are wounded in operations performed for the relief of strangulated hernia ; but the bleeding from them is small in quantity and rarely requires the applica- tion of a ligature or other means to arrest it. The lymphatic glands of the groin (p. 489) admit of being arranged in two sets—one being placed over Poupart's ligament and parallel with that structure ; while the other series is upon the upper part of the thigh at its middle, about the saphenous opening in the fascia lata. When the superficial fascia is removed, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle (p. 249) is in view, together with, in the male body, the spermatic cord, in the female body the round ligament of the uterus, which emerge from an opening close to the outer side of the pubic spine. The lowest fibres of the aponeurosis, as they approach the pubes, become sepa- rated into two bundles which leave an interval between them for the passage of the cord or round ligament. One of the bands, the upper one and the smaller of the two, is fixed in front of the symphysis of the pubes ; and the lower band, which forms the lower margin of the aponeurosis, being stretched between the anterior superior iliac spine and the pubes, is named Poupart's ligament, or the femoral arch. This latter tendinous band has considerable breadth. It is fixed at the inner end to the spine of the pubes, and, for some space outside that process of the bone, to the pectineal ridge. In consequence of the position of the pectineal ridge at the back part of the bone, the ligament is tucked backwards ; and its upper surface afi"ords space for the attachment of the other broad muscles, at the same time that it supports the spermatic cord. Poupart's ligament does not lie in a straight line between its two fixed points ; it curves downwards, and with the curved border the fascia lata is connected. It is owing to the last-mentioned fact that the so-named ligament, together with the rest of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, is influenced by the position of the thigh, being relaxed when the limb is bent, and the converse. Moreover, the change of the position of the limb exercises a corresponding influence on the state of the other structures connected with Poupart's ligament. The interval left by the separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis above referred to, is named the external abdominal ring, and the two bands by which it is bounded are known as its pillars or columns. The space is triangular in shape, its base being the crest of the pubes, while the apex is at the point of separation of the two columns. The size of the ring varies considerably in different bodies ;—in one case its sides will be found closely applied to the spermatic cord ; while, in another, on the contrary, the space