941 MINUTE STRUCTURE OF SUPRARENAL BODIES. According to Simon the columns consist of distinct tubes with a limiting membrane ; Ecker and others affirm that no continuous tubular cavities exist, but that rows of closed vesicles, many of them oval in shape, and over-lapping each other, are placed in such manner as to resemble tubes ; while Grray believes that the walls of adjoining vesicles are sometimes removed by absorption, so that tubular cavities are formed by the coalescence of neighbouriug vesicles. Kolliker, however, and other observers, maintain with more correctness, that the so-called vesicles are merely loculi or cavities in the stroma of the organ, possessing no distinct limitary membrane, and producing the appearance of a tubular structure by their apposition in linear series. The small arteries, entering from the surface, run parallel to these columns, frequently anastomose together between them, and surround each row of vesicles with a fine capillary network. Small bundles of nerves pass inwards in the sej^ta between the columns to reach the medullary part of the organ, and their fibres begin to spread out in the zona reticularis, but do not appear to be distributed to the cortical substance. The medullary part of the suprarenal capsule is separated from the cortical part by a layer of connective tissue, the fibres of which are parallel to the two parts, and allow them to be easily separated one from the other in sections prepared for the microscope. In the thinner parts of the adult organ there is no medullary part, or it has shrunk away, and the layer of connective tissue referred to is found separating the deep surfaces of two opposed portions of the cortical part; but in the young state the dis- tinction of cortical and medullary probably extends throughout the whole. The medullary part is traversed in the centre by venous trunks, which receive the whole of the blood which has passed through the organ. The stroma is delicate, arranged in a reticular manner ; the pulpy substance which lies in it is difficult of examination, but consists of cells, differing from those of the cortex in being destitute of oil globules, and some of them branched. The bundles of nerves which pass through the cortical substance run between it and the medullary substance, and then form a copious interlace- ment which extends through the whole of the medullary stroma. According to Leidig and Laschka, the celh of the medullary substancs are ganglionic ; and Luschka states that he has found them both connected one with another and with nerve fibras ; but this view still requires confirmation. Moers, while he denies that the cells of the medullary parenchyma are nervous, describes ganglia on the nerves where their bundles begin to break up. The medullary substance receives its blooi by the continuation inwards of the capillary network of the cortex, the blood from which is collected by venous radicles which open into the stems in the centra of the organ. Vessels.—The suprarenal bodies receive arteries from three sources, viz., from the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal arteries. The distribution of their capillary vessels has already been mentioned. The veins, which pass out from the centre, are usually united into one for each organ. The right vein enters the vena cava inferior immediately, whilst the left, after a longer course, terminates in the left renal vein. The lijmphatics are imperfectly known. Kolliker has seen a few small trunks upon the surface; and Luschka has, in addition, observed others emerging from the interior in company with the vein. Nerves.—The nerves are exceedingly numerous. They are derived from the solar plexus of the sympathetic, and from the renal plexuses. According to Bergmann, some filaments come from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. They are made up mainly of dark-bordered white fibres, of different sizes, and they have many small