MINUTE STRUCTUEE OF THE CORD. 509 in fishes, reptiles and birds than in mammals. In the young human subject it is always present, but, according to the observation of Lockhart Clarke and KoUiker, it sometimes disappears in the adult. Minute structure of the Spinal Cord.—The substance of the spinal cord consists of a large proportion of nervous substance, supported in a delicate framework of connective tissue and numerous minute blood-vessels. The white matter presents nerve-fibres, but is destitute of nerve-cells; the grey matter contains both elements. The fibres of the white substance are in greatest part longitudinal; the principal exceptions being those contained in the commissure, and in the roots of the nerves. The longi- tudinal fibres are finer in the posterior columns and posterior parts of the lateral columns than in other parts, and the deepest fibres are smaller than those placed more superficially. (Kolliker.) The fibres of the grey substance are for the most part not more than one half the diameter of their continuations in the white substance, and in the nerve-roots, but among them there are a few of larger size. They are very various in their direction, and, in great part at least, are connected with the roots of the nerves. Fi^. 345.—Transverse Fig. 345. Section op half the Spinal Marrow in THE Lumbar En- largement, f This is a semidia- grammatic representa- tion taken from a pre- pared specimen, and founded in part on the statements of Lockhart Clarke, and of Kolliker. 1, anterior median fissure; 2, posterior median fissure ; 3, cen- tral canal lined with epithelium; 4, posterior commissure ; 5, anterior commissure; 6, posterior column; 7, lateral co- lumn ; 8, anterior co- lumn ; (at each of these places and throughout the white substance the trabecular prolongations of the pia mater are shown;) 9, posterior roots of the spinal nerve entering in one principal bundle; 10, anterior roots entering in four spreading bundles of fibres ; a, a, caput cornu posterioris with large and small cells, and above them the gelatinous substance ; 5, in the cervix cornu, decus- sating fibres from the nerve roots and posterior commissure ; c, posterior vesicular columns (of Clarke) ; d, fibres running transversely from the posterior commissure into the lateral columns : near d, the lateral group of cells; e, e, fibres of the anterior roots entering the anterior cornu, and passing through among the radiating cells, but not joining their processes ; e', fibres from the anterior roots which decussate in the anterior column ; e", external fibres from the roots running round the outside of the anterior grey cornu towards the lateral columns ; /, fibres from the posterior commissure and from the posterior cornu running towards the anterior. Three groups of cells are seen in the anterior column ; of these the anterior are external and internal, the posterior are chiefly external or lateral.