1065 THE FOEE-AEM AND HAND. them, and proceeding successively to the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus (which, however, is often absent), flexor sublimis digifcorum and flexor carpi uluaris (p. 215) ; displaying the branches of the median nerve to the first four muscles, and that of the ulnar nerve to the last-mentioned muscle and to the flexor profundus digitorum (pp. 651 and 659). The course of the radial and ulnar arteries and nerves in the fore-arm is also to be studied. From the radial artery (p. 394) will be seen given off the radial recurrent, the muscular branches, the anterior carpal branch and the superficial volar ; while arising from the ulnar artery (p. 388) will be seen the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent, and the interosseous, dividing into anterior and posterior interosseous, and giving ofl" the branch to accompany the median nerve. This last branch, the comes nervi mediani, derives importance from being not unfrequently developed as a third principal trunk of the fore-arm, v. hich passes down into the superficial palmar arch. The muscular branches of the ulnar artery, and its anterior and posterior carpal branches, are also to be exposed. The deep layer of muscles, consisting of the flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum and pronator quadratiis, are next to be dissected (p. 219) ; and along with them, lying on the interosseous mem- brane, and giving twigs to the muscles, the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and accompanying it, the anterior interosseous artery (p. 390). 8. The Hand in front.—For the dissection of the front of the hand, let an incision be made down the middle of the palm, a second transversely through the skin above the division of the fingers, and others down the middle of each finger. Let the palmar aponeurosis be exposed (p. 231), preservii}g the palmaris brevis muscle which is attached to its inner margin (p. 225) ; and let the skin be reflected from the front of the fingers and thumb, so as to exhibit the sheaths for the tendons, and the two digital branches of the artery and nerve on each (p. 218). The palmar aponeu- rosis is then to be removed, and the trunks of the ulnar and median nerves will be brought into view (pp. 649 and 651), as also the ulnar artery, the superficial volar branch of the radial artery, and the superficial palmar arch (p. 393). The short muscles of the thumb, viz., the abductor, opponens, flexor brevis, and adductor pollicis, are to be dissected, with the twigs of the median nerve supplying the three first, and the insertion of the flexor longus pollicis ; then the abductor, opponens, and flexor minimi digiti, with the twigs of the ulnar nerve supplying them, and its deep branch pierciug them (p. 225). The annular ligament is to be cleaned and the synovial sheath behind it examined ; the tendons of the superficial and deep flexors are to be followed to their insertions, and the lumbricales muscles dissected. The deep branch of the ulnar artery may now be traced to the deep palmar arch, and that of the ulnar nerve to its distribution in all the interossei, two of the lumbricales, the adductor pollicis and the inner part of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. The deep palmar arch and its branches are also to be fully examined (p. 400). 9. The Fore-arm and Hand Posteriorly.—For the dissection of the back of the fore-arm and hand let the remainder of the integument and apo- neurosis be carefully reflected, and let the distribution of the ulnar and radial nerves to the dorsal aspects of the fingers be traced (p. 653). The muscles are then to be dissected in the following order, viz., the supinator longus, extensores carpi radiales longior and brevior, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor communis digitorum and extensor minimi digiti, the extensor indicis, the three extensores pollicis, and, lastly, the anconeus and supinator brevis muscles (p. 220). There will be found passing through the fibres