THE EAR. 770 Kollikev that during the whole period of foetal life the tympanic cavity is occupied by connective tissue, in which the ossicles are imbedded; and that only after the breathing process is commenced this tissue recedes before an expansion of the mucous membrane. The pinna is gradually developed on the posterior margin of the first branchial cleft. It is deserving of notice that congenital malformation of the external ear, with occlusion of the meatus and greater or less imperfection of the tympanic Fig. 527. Fig. 527.—Views of the Cartilage op Meckel AND PARTS connected WITH THE First and Second Branchial Plates. A. (after Kolliker), head of a fcetus of about eigh- teen weeks, showing the cartilage of Meckel in con- nection with the malleus, &c. M, the cartilage of Meckel of the right side. B (from nature). An enlarged sketch explana- tory of the above view ; z, the zygomatic arch ; ma, the mastoid process ; ml, portions of the lower jaw of which the parts near the angle and the sym- physis have been removed; M, the cartilage of Meckel of the right side ; M', a small part of that of the left side, joining the left car- tilage at s, the symphysis ; T, the tympanic ring ; w, the malleus; i, the incus; s, the stapes; sta, the stapedius muscle ; st, the styloid process; jp, h, g, the stylo - pharyngeus, stylo- hyoid and stylo-glossus muscles, stl, stylo-hyoid ligament attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone ; hy, the hyoid bone ; th, thyroid cartilage. In A, the head being turned somewhat upwards, the same parts are shown, to- gether with the surround- ing muscles, the carotid artery, jugular vein, &c. apparatus, are observed in connection with abnormal development of the deeper parts of the first and second branchial lappets and the intermediate cleft; while cases have been observed of the persistence in the neck of the adult of one or more of the branchial clefts situated behind the first. (Allen Thomson, Proceed. Eoy. Soc. of Edin. 1844, and Edin. Journ. of Med. Sc. 1847.)