THE CERVICAL NERVES AND PLEXUS. 638 I. Superficial Ascending Branches. SUPERFICIAL cervical NERVE. This nerve takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves, turns forward over the sterno-mastoid about the middle, and, after perforating the cervical fascia, divides beneath the platysma myoides into two branches, which are distributed to the anterior and lateral parts of the neck. a. The upper branch giyea an ascending twig which accompanies the external jugular vein, and communicates freely with the facial nerve (cervico-facial division); it is then transmitted through the platysma to the surface, supplying that muscle, and ramifies in the integument of the upper half of the neck on the fore part, filaments reaching as high as the lower maxilla. b. The lower branch likewise pierces the platysma, and is distributed below the preceding, its filaments extending in front as low as the sternum. The superficial cervical nerve may arise from the plexus in the form of two or more distinct branches. Thus Valentin describes three superficial cervical nerves, which he names superior, middle, and inferior, {" Sommerring v. Bau," &c.) "While the superficial cervical nerve ramifies over the platysma myoides, the facial nerve is beneath the muscle. According to Valentin many anastomotic arches are formed on the side of the neck between those two nerves, as well as between the branches of the former, one with another. GREAT auricular NERVE. This nerve winds round the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and is directed obliquely upwards beneath the platysma myoides, between the muscle and the deep fascia of the neck, to the lobe of the ear. Here the nerve gives a few small branches to the face, and ends in the auricular and mastoid branches. a. The auricular branches are directed to the back of the external ear, on which they ramify, and are connected with twigs derived from the facial nerve. One of these branches reaches the outer surface of the ear by a fissure between the antihelix and the concha. A few filaments are supplied likewise to the outer part of the lobule. b. The mastoid branch is united to the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve, and ascends over the mastoid process to the integument behind the ear. c. The facial branches of the great auricular nerve, which extend to the integu- ments of the face, are distributed over the parotid gland. Some slender filaments penetrate deeply through the substance of the gland, and communicate with the facial nerve. SMALL occipital NERVE. The smaller occipital nerve varies in size, and is sometimes double. It springs from the second cervical nerve, and is directed almost vertically to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Having perforated the deep fascia near the cranium, the small occipital nerve is continued upwards between the ear and the great occipital nerve, and ends in cutaneous filaments which extend upwards in the scalp ; it communicates with branches from the larger occipital nerve, as well as with the posterior auricular branch of the facial. It appears to supply sometimes the occipito- frontalis muscle. The auricular branch (ram. auriculai'is superior posterior) is distributed to the upper part of the ear on the posterior aspect, and to the elevator muscle of the auricle. This auricular branch is an offset from the great occipital nerve, when the small occipital is of less size than usual.