THE SPINAL CORD. 510 The nerve cells of the grey matter are of two kinds. Firstly, there are very large branched cells, from jj^ig to of an inch in size, containing nuclei and pigment; secondly, there are smaller cells, ranging from gig to of an inch, but the majority are from j^^^ to gig of an inch in size. The smaller cells occur scattered throughout the whole of the grey matter; the larger cells, on the contrary, are collected into groups. In the posterior cornua the large cells are almost entirely collected into a compact group, the posterior vesicular column of Clarke (the core of Stilling), which occupies the inner half of the cervix of the posterior cornu. This vesicular column is in intimate connection with the posterior roots of the nerves; it may be traced continuously from near the lower extremity of the spinal cord to the middle of the cervical enlargement, where it terminates; and it increases in size in both the lumbar and cervical enlargements. In the anterior cornu the large cells occur in greater number than in the posterior cornu, and are of somewhat greater size ; and they are principally placed at its forepart, and arranged in an inner and an outer group. There is likewise described by Clarke a small group of cells, collected in a tractus irdermedio-lateralis, and forming a projection of the grey matter opposite the junction of the anterior and posterior cornua. This lateral vesicular column extends from the upper part of the lumbar to i^the lower part of the cervical enlargement; and it may be said to reappear at the upper extremity of the cord, where it is traversed by the roots of the spinal accessory nerve, and is continued up into the medulla oblongata. Fig. 346. Fig. 346.—A Small Portion op a Tkansversb Section of thr Human Spinal Cobi) NEAR THE SORFACE AT THE ENTRANCE OF A BUNDLE OP THE ANTERIOR RoOTS. 222 1 This figure, which is somewhat diagrammatic, is intended to show the relation to the nervous substance of the pia-matral sheath of the cord and the processes of connective tissue prolonged from it between the longitudinal and other nerve fibres, a, a, the primitive filaments of a bundle of the anterior roots, the medullary sheaths not repre- sented ; b, b, transverse sections of part of the anterior columns of the cord, in which the dark points are the primitive filaments, and the circles represent the neurilemmal tube enclosing the medullary substance : in these parts the connective tissue is not represented, and many of the smallest nerve fibres have also, for the sake of clearness, been omitted ; c, the pia-matral covering of the cord ; d, one of the compartments of the anterior column enclosed by septa of connective tissue prolonged from the pia-mater, and exhibit- ing the fine frame-work of connective tissue extending through among the nerve fibres, which last have been omitted : there are also indicated among the trabeculse minute nuclei of connective tissue. Connective tissue takes part in the structure of the cord to a very considerable extent. It forms a complete covering surrounding the white substance. In the inner margin also of the posterior columns, one on each side of the posterior fissure, two wedge-shaped bands (the bands of Goll) have been distinguished, in which the