891 STRUCTUEE OF THE TKACHEA. The first or highest cartilage, which is connected by the fibrous membrane with the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, is broader than the rest, and is often divided at one end. Sometimes it coalesces in a greater or less extent with the cricoid or with the succeeding cartilage. The lowest cartilage, placed at the bifurcation of the trachea into the bronchi, is peculiar in shape ; its lower border being prolonged downwards, and at the same time bent backwards so as to form a curved projection between the two bronchi. The cartilage next above this is slightly widened in the middle line. Some- times the extremities of two adjacent cartilages are united together, and not unfrequently a cartilage is divided at one end into two short branches, the ojiposite end of that next it being likewise bifurcated so as to maintain the parallelism of the entire series. The use of these cartilaginous hoops is to keep the trachea open, a condition essential for the free passage of air into the lungs. Muscular fibres.—Between the fibrous and the mucous membrane at the posterior flattened part of the trachea, there is found a continuous pale reddish layer, consisting of unstriped muscular fibres which pass across, not only between the posterior extremities of the cartilages, but opposite the intervals between the rings also, and have the power of diminishing the area of the tube by approximating the ends of the cartilages. Those which are placed opposite the cartilages are attached to the ends of the rings, and encroach also for a short distance upon the adjacent part of their inner surface. Outside the transverse fibres are some small fasciculi having a longitudinal direction. These arise, by minute tendons of elastic tissue, in part from the inner surface of the end of the tracheal rings, and in part from the external fibrous membrane. Fig. 625—Ciliated Epithelium OF THE Respiratory Mucous Membrane. A, vertical section of the epithe- lial lining of the human windpipe (from Kolliker). ^ a, h, sub- jacent membrane; c, lowest or spheroidal cells ; d, middle or oval cells ; e, superficial elongated and ciliated cells. B, separate columnar and ciliated epithelial cells from the human nasal membrane. ^ Mastic fibres.—Situated im- mediately beneath the tracheal mucous membrane, and ad- hering intimately to it, are numerous longitudinal fibres of yellow elastic tissue. They are found all round the tube, internal to the cartilages and the muscular layer, but are much more abundant along the posterior membranous part, where they are principally collected into distinct longitudinal bundles, which produce visible elevations or flutings of the mucous membrane. These bundles are par- Fig. 625.