579 PINEAL GLAND.—OPTIC THALAML extremity, as had been previously supposed by Baer, but is an expansion of the vesicle downwards, in similar fashion as there is an expansion of it upwards in the region of the pineal body. The pituitar-y body was asserted by Eathke to be derived from a prolongation upwards of the mucous membrane of the Fig. 393. pharynx into the base of the skull between the trabeculae. It appears, however, from the researches of Keichert and Bidder, that the base of the skull is never imperfect in this region. Eeichert suggested that the pituitary body might be derived from the extremity of the chorda dorsalis, but is now rather inclined to think that it is a development of the pia mater. Fig. 393.—Bkain and Spinal Cord op a Fcetits op four MONTHS, SEEN PROM BEHIND (from Kolllker). Ji, hemispheres of the cerebrum ; m, corpora quadrigemina or mesencephalon ; c, cerebellum ; m o, medulla oblongata, the fourth ventricle being overlapped by the cerebellum; s, s, the spinal cord with its brachial and crural enlargements. The pineal gland, according to Baer, is developed from the back part of the thalami, where those bodies continue joined together; but it is suggested by BischolF that its development may be rather connected with the pia mater. It was not seen by Tiedemann until the fourth month : sub- sequently its growth is very slow; and it at first contains no gritty deposit: this, however, was found by Sommerring at birth. The two optic thalami, formed from the posterior part of the anterior vesicle, consist at first of a single hollow sac of nervous matter, the cavity of which communicates in front with the interior of the commencing cerebral hemispheres, and behind with that of the middle cephalic vesicle (corpora quadrigemina). Soon, however, by means of a deposit taking place in their interior Fig. 394. Fig. 394.—Semidiagrammatic Views of the Inner Surface op the Right Cerebral Hemisphere op the F(etal Brain at various stages op development (from Schmidt). 1, 2, and 3, are from foetuses of the respective ages of eight, ten, and sixteen weeks ; 4, from a foetus of six months, a, lamina terminalis or part of the first primary vesicle which adheres to the sella turcica ; b, section of the cerebral peduncle as it passes into the thalamus and corpus striatum ; the arched line which surrounds this bounds the great cerebral fissure ; c, anterior part of the fornix and the septum lucidum ; cZ, inner part of the arch of the cerebrum, afterwards the hippocampus major and posterior part of the fornix ; e, corpus callosum, vei-y short iu 3, elongated backwards in 4 ; in 4, /, the superior marginal convolution; /', fronto-parietal fissure; g, gyrus fornicatus ; p', the internal vertical fissure descending to meet the fissure of the hippocampus; I, olfactory bulb; F, P, 0, T, frontal, parietal, occipital and temporal lobes.