972 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. rather tortuous, but afterwards becoming straight, it ascends upon the inner side of the epididymis, and along the back of the testicle, separated from both, however, by the blood-vessels passing to and from the gland. Continu- ing, then, to ascend in the spermatic cord, the vas deferens accompanies the spermatic artery, veins and nerves, as far as the internal abdominal ring. Between the testicle and the external ring its course is vertical : it lies behind the spermatic vessels, and is readily distinguished by its hard cord-like feel. Having passed obliquely upwards and outwards along the inguinal canal, and reached the inner border of the internal abdominal ring, it leaves the spermatic vessels (which extend to the lumbar region), and turns suddenly downwards and inwards into the pelvis, crossing over the external iliac vessels, and turning round the outer or iliac side of the epigastric artery. Running beneath the peritoneum, it reaches the side of the bladder, curves backwards and downwards to the under surface of that viscus, and then runs forwards to the base of the prostate gland. In its course within the pelvis, it crosses over the cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery, and to the inner side of the ureter. Beyond this point, where it ceases to be covered by the peritoneum, it is found attached to the coats of the bladder, in contact with the rectum, and gradually approaches its fellow of the oppo- site side. Upon the base of the bladder, the two vasa deferentia are situated between two elongated receptacles, named the seminal vesicles; and close to the base of the prostate, each vas deferens ends by joining with the duct from the corresponding seminal vesicle, which is placed on its outer side to form one of the two common seminal or ejaculatory ducts. The vas deferens measures nearly two feet in length. In the greater part of its extent it is cylindrical or slightly compressed, and has an average diameter of about one line and a quarter ; but towards its termination, beneath the bladder, it becomes enlarged and sacculated, approaching thus in character to the seminal vesicle. Previous to its junction with the duct of that vesicle, it again becomes narrowed to a fine cylindrical canal. The walls of the vas deferens are very dense and strong, measuring one-third of a line in thickness ; whilst, on the other hand, the canal is comparatively fine, its diameter being only from one-fourth to one-half a line. In the sacculated portion the passage is much wider, and the walls are thinner in proportion. Besides an external areolar investment, and an internal lining mucous membrane, the vas deferens is provided with an intermediate thick tunic, which is dense in structure, somewhat elastic, and of a deep yellowish colour. This coat consists principally of longitudinal muscular fibres, mixed with some circular ones. Buschke describes two longitudinal layers with in- termediate circular fibres. The external and middle layers are thick and strong ; but the internal longitudinal stratum is extremely thin, constituting not more than ^th of the muscular coat. The vasa deferentia of the dog, cat, and rabbit were found by E. Weber to exhibit lively peristaltic contractions when stimulated by means of electricity. The surface of the mucous membrane is pale ; it is thrown into three or four fine longitudinal ridges, and, besides this, in the sacculated portion of the duct, is marked by numerous finer rugse which enclose irregular poly- hedral spaces, resembling in this the lining membrane of the vesiculse semi- nales. The epithelium is of the columnar kind, not ciliated. Vas aberrans.—This name was applied by Haller to a long narrow tube, or diverticulum, discovered by him, and almost invariably met with, which leads off from the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or from the commencement of the vas deferens, and extends upwards in a tortuous