GLUTEAL REGION. 1079 cutaneous nerves in tins region. Of these he will find, descending over the crest of the ilium, in order from before backwards, the lateral branches of the last dorsal and ilio-hypogastric nerves (pp. 658 and 660), with several branches of the lumbar nerves (p. 6-34) ; and, piercing the gluteus maximus muscle near its posterior attachment, some small cutaneous twigs from the posterior divisions of the upper sacral nerves (p. 635) ; lastly, turning round its inferior border, branches from the small sciatic nerve (p. 675). It will be observed that the fascia lata, which is strongly developed over that part of the gluteus medius which lies in front of the gluteus maximus muscle, on reaching the upper border of the gluteus maximus, divides into two laminae, of which one is continued on the superficial, and the other on the deep aspect of that muscle (p. 292). Care is to be taken to lay bare the inferior border of the gluteus maximus in its whole extent; and a synovial bursa over the tuberosity of the ischium is to be sought for. The muscle is then to be divided close to its iliac and sacral attachment, and in turning it forward, the sciatic artery and the superficial branch of the gluteal artery will come into view. The branches of these arteries and of the small sciatic nerve which enter the muscle are to be followed out to some extent, and they may then be divided to permit the complete reflec- tion of the muscle. While this is being done a large synovial bursa will be found between the trochanter major and the insertion of the gluteus maxi- mus into the fascia lata. The fascia lata is to be removed from the upper part of the gluteus medius muscle, and the parts exposed by the removal of the gluteus maxi- mus are to be cleaned in their order from above downwards, viz. : the back part of the gluteus medius muscle, the gluteal vessels (p. 429), the pyriformis muscle, the sciatic vessels and the great and small sciatic nerves (p. 674), the gemelli muscles, superior and inferior, with the tendon of the obturator inter- nus muscle between them (p. 268). The tendon of this muscle may now be dissected from between the gemelli, divided and turned back, to show the synovial cavity in which it plays upon the smooth trochlear surface of the ischium. The quadratus femoris, the tendon of the obturator externus muscle situated more deeply, the upper part of the adductor magnus muscle, and the origin of the hamstring muscles are then to be exposed. From the small sciatic nerve the inferior pudendal branches will be seen given ofi", in addition to those already mentioned, and from the sciatic artery, besides muscular branches, the coccygeal branch, the branch to the great sciatic nerve, and that by which it anastomoses with the internal circumflex artery may be traced. On the spine of the ischium also will be seen the pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle (pp. 425 and 670) ; and descending under cover of the tendon of the obturator internus and the gemelli is the small nerve to the quadratus femoris. The gluteus maximus muscle having been entirely removed from its upper attachment, and the tendon of insertion being left, the gluteus medius is to be raised from the ilium in three-fourths of its extent; its anterior border and that of the gluteus minimus muscle being left for dissection from the front. The attachments of the gluteus medius muscle are to be observed, as also the superior and inferior deep branches of the gluteal artery, and the distribution of the gluteal nerve (pp. 429 and 667). The posterior part of the gluteus minimus may then be raised from the ilium to show the extent of its att^hment to that bone, and its relation to the capsule of the hip- joint. 2. The Popliteal Space.—It is advisable to dissect this space before the