507 INTERNAL STEUCTUEE OF THE COED. matter, which runs along the surface of the lateral column, and is separated from it by a streak of greyish substance. According to the same authority, this narrow tract enlarges above, and may be traced upwards along the side of the medulla oblongata into the cerebellum. (Op. cit. p. 285.) roots passingthe ganglion; 5', in A, the anterior root divided; 6, the posterior roots, the fibres of which pass into the ganglion, 6' ; 7, the united or compound nerve ; 7', the posterior primary branch seen in A and D, to be derived in part from the anterior and in part from the posterior root. Internal structure of the spinal cord.—The spinal cord consists of white and grey nervous substance. The white matter, forming by far the larger portion of the cord, is situated externally, whilst the grey matter is dis- posed in the interior. The grey matter, as seen in a transverse section of any part of the cord, presents two crescent-shaped masses, placed one in each lateral half, with their convexities towards one another, and joined across the middle by a transverse portion, the grey or posterior commissure of the cord. Each of these grey crescents has an anterior and a posterior cornu or horn. The posterior, generally longer and narrower, approaches the posterior lateral fissure : the anterior, shorter and thicker, extends towards the place of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves. In front of it a layer of white substance separates it from the bottom of the anterior median fissure, this is named the anterior white commissure. Another white layer, very thin and indistinct, was formerly described as lying behind the grey commissure ; but in the present state of our knowledge it seems sufficient to describe one white commissure, and one grey commissure behind it. At the back part or tip of the posterior horn, which is somewhat en- larged, the grey matter has a peculiar semi-transparent aspect, whence it was named by Rolando substantia cinerea gelatimosa : the remaining and Fig. 343.—Different Views of a Portion of THE Spinal Cork from THE Cervical Region WITH the Boots of THE Nerves. Slightly enlarged. Fig. 34P. In A, the anterior sur- face of the specimen is shown, the anterior nerve- root of the right side being divided ; in B, a view of the right side is given ; in C, the upper surface is shown ; in D, the nerve roots and gan- glion are shown from below. 1, the anterior median fissure; 2, pos- terior median fissure; 3, anterior lateral depres- sion, over which the ante- rior nerve-roots are seen to spread ; 4, posterior lateral groove, into which the posterior roots are seen to sink; 5, anterior 7i L L 2