THE TEETH. 792 retraction of the gum. By its connection with the surrounding mem- branous structures it contributes to fix the tooth in the socket. It is the seat of the bony growths or exostoses sometimes found upon the teeth. D. Osteodentine (Owen), secondary detdine (Tomes), or the horny suhdance of Blumenbach, is a hard substance which begins to be deposited on the inner surface of the dentine after the age of twenty years or later, so that the central cavity of a tooth becomes gradually diminished in size, whilst :the pulp slowly shrinks or disappears. This additional substance, formerly regarded as an extension of the cement into the interior of the tooth, has been shown to have a distinct structure, in part resembling dentine, and in part bone. It is traversed by canals, which contain blood-vessels, and are surrounded by concentric lamellae, like the Haversian canals of bone. From these canals, numerous tubules radiate in all directions, larger than the canaliculi of bone, resembling, in this respect, and also in their mode of ramification, the tubes of the dentine. This newly added structure may or may not coalesce with the previously formed dentine ; it appears to be pro- duced by a slow conversion of the dental pulp. Among special works on the teeth may be noticed, Retzius, in Mliller's Archiv, 1837; Nasmyth, Researches on the Teeth, 1839 ; Owen, Odontography, 1840-45 ; Tomes, Lectures on Dental Physiology and Surgery, 1848, also in the Phil. Transactions, 1849 and 1850, and in Quart, Journ. of Micr. Science, 1856 ; Salter, in Quarterly Journal of Microscopic Science, 1853, in Guy's Hospital Reports, third series, vol. i.; and in Trans. Path. Soc, 1854 and 1855; Czermak in Zeitschrift fiir wissensch. Zoologie, 1850 ; Huxley in Quarterly Journal of Microscopic Science, 1853. DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. Although the general phenomena of the growth and succession of the teeth had received considerable attention from a variety of anatomists, the observations of Arnold and Goodsir, made independently of each other, more especially the latter, were the first to give precision to our knowledge concerning their origin and the earlier stages of their formation. More recent researches have, it is true, shown that their account of the primor- dial condition of the dental germs may require some modification ; but nevertheless these authors were the first to establish the primordial con- nection of the teeth with the mucous membrane covering the edges of the maxillary arches, and Goodsir was the first to give a consistent view of the earlier steps of the formative process in the temporary and permanent series of teeth. (Arnold in Salzbilrger Med. Zeitung, 1831; Goodsir in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1839.) The changes which take place in the bones of the jaws relate only to the formation of the sockets of the teeth. In their earliest condition these bones present no appearance of alveoli, but, concurrently with certain changes in the mucous membrane, to be immediately described, a wide groove is developed along the edge of the jaw, which gradually becomes deeper, and is at length divided across by thin bony partitions, so as to form a series of four-sided cells. These bony septa are not distinctly formed until near the fifth month of foetal life. By the subsequent growth of the bone, these cavities or loculi are gradually closed round, except where they remain open at the edge of the jaw. By the end of the sixth month they are distinctly formed, but continue afterwards, in proportion to the growth of the teeth, to increase in size and depth, by the addition of new matter which widens and deepens the jaw. The first stages in the development of the teeth, as observed by Arnold and Goodsir, consist of certain changes in the mucous membrane cover-