846 THE INTESTINE. which they open by small orifices. They appear to be analogous to the tubuli of the stomach, but they are placed farther apart from each other, and are sometimes bulged inferiorly, but are hardly ever divided. Similar tubules also occupy the whole mucous membrane of the large intestine. The crypts of Lieberkiihn vary in length from the -^Qth. to the -yq^^ of a line, and their diameter is about ^'o^h of a line. The walls of the tubes are thin, and lined with a columnar epithelium : their contents are fluid and transparent, with granules interspersed, and they never contain fat. These crypts are sometimes filled with a whitish substance, which most probably consists chiefly of desquamated epithelium and mucus. The agminated glands, or glands of Peyer (who discovered and described them in 1677), are found in groups or patches, having an oblong figure, and Fig. 591 A. Fig. 591 A.—Patch of Peter's Glands in the Ileum. This figure represents, some- what diagrammatically, and of the natural size, a patch of Peyer's glands from near the middle of the ileum of a young subject : in thelowerhalf of the figure the mucous membrane and the glands have been removed by dissection, showing the impres- sion left by the patch of glands by the condensation of the sub- mucous tissue : the piece of intestine having been opened along its mesenteric border, the blood-vessels are seen ad- vancing from the separated margins towards the centre. varying from half an inch to two or even four inches in length, and being about half an inch, or rather more, in width. These patches are placed length- ways in the intestine at that part of the tube most distant from the mesen- tery ; and hence, to obtain the best view of them, the bowel should be opened by an incision along its attached border. The patches of Peyer's glands consist of groups of small, round, flattened vesicles or capsules composed of a tolerably thick and firm wall of connective tissue, usually filled with a whitish or rather greyish semi-fluid matter, con- sisting of round nucleated cells and free nuclei, and situated beneath the mucous membrane, the surface of which is depressed into little shallow pits, at or rather under the bottom of which the capsules are placed. The inter- mediate surface of the membrane is beset with villi and Lieberkiihn's crypts : the villi are also sometimes found even over the capsules, and the crypts are collected in circles around the capsules, but do not communicate with them. Opposite to the patches of Peyer's glands, the mucous and areolar coats of the intestine adhere more closely together than elsewhere, so that in those situations it is impossible to inflate the areolar coat. Fine blood-vessels are distributed abundantly on the walls of the capsules, and give ofi" still finer capillary branches, which, supported by a delicate network of connective