GLANDULAR SUBSTANCE OF THE TESTLS. 969 by Astley Cooper mediastinum testis. Projecting inwards from the back of the testis, it extends from the upper nearly to the lovver end of the gland, and it is wider above than below. The firm tissue of which it is composed is traversed by a network of seminal ducts, and by the larger blood-vessels of the gland, which are lodged in channels formed in the fibrous tissue. From the front and sides of the corpus Highmorianum numerous slender fibrous cords and imperfect septa of connective tissue are given off in radiating directions, and are attached by their outer ends to the internal surface of the tunic% albugiuea ab different points, so as to assist in maintaining the general shape of the testicle, and enclose the several lobes into which the substance of the testis is divided. The whole internal surface of the tunica albuginea is covered by a multitude of fine blood-vessels, which are branches of the spermatic artery and veins, and are held together by a delicate areolar web. Similar delicate ramifications of vessels are seen on the various fibrous offsets of the mediastinum, upon which the blood-vessels are thus supported in the interior of the gland. This vascular network, together with its connecting areolar tissue, constitutes the tunica vasculosa of Astley Cooper. The proper gla7idular substance of the testicle is a soft but consistent mass of a reddish-yellow colour, which is divided into numerous small lobes of conical form, with the larger ends turned towards the surface of the testicle, and the smaller towards the mediastinum. The number of these lobes (lobuli testis) has been estimated at 250 by Berres, and at upwards of 400 by Krause. They difi"er in size according to their position, those which occupy the middle of the gland and reach its anterior border being longer and larger than the rest. They consist almost entirely of small convoluted tubes, named tubuli seminiferi, vascula serpentina, in the interior of which the seminal fluid is secreted. Each lobe contains one, two, three, or even more of these con- Fig. 677.—Plan of a Vertical Section of the Testicle, SHOWING THE ARRANGEMENT OV THE DUGTS. The true length and diameter of the ducts have beea dis- regarded, a, a, tubuU seminiferi coiled up in the separate lobes ; b, vasa recta; c, rete vasfculosum ; d, vasa efferentia ending in the coni vasculosi; I, e, g, convoluted canal of the epididymis; /i, vas deferens ; /, section of the back part of the tunica albuginea ; i, i, fibrous processes running between the lobes ; s, mediastinum. voluted tubules, the coils of which, being but loosely held together, may be more or less successfully un- ravelled by careful dissection under water. Lauth estimates their mean number to be 840, and the average length two feet and a quarter. Their dia- meter, which is uniform throughout their whole course, is from g-u^o*^ tIo*^ They present two kinds of convolutions, each tube having a tine and regular undulation, which gives a granular appearance to the whole mass, and this undulating tube, being again thrown into com- plicated folds, which are compressed so as to be elongated in the direction of the lobule. The lobules are never quite distinct, for here and there tubules are always to be found passing from each to those around ; and it sometimes happens that tubules which are divided by a straight plane of