932 THE KIDNEYS. laterally, in mammals tliey are always termioal, communicating with one tubule only. The interior of the capsule is lined by a transparent delicate squamous epithelium ; but there is still much difference of opiuion as to the exact relation of the glomerulus to the epithelium within the capsule. Bow- man has described the glomerulus as hanging naked in the interior of the capsule, and presenting thus the greatest possible facility for the filtration of water from its vessels into the tubule : a view which has been supported by Ecker, Henle, and others. Kolliker, on the other hand, has observed epithe- lium on the free extremity of the glomerulus, looking towards the com- mencing tubule, while at the sides he can find only a single layer, which he Fig. 651. Fig. 651.—Three Malpighian Capsules in connection with the Bloodvessels AND Uriniperotjs Tubes OP THE HuMAN KiDNEY (from Kollikei" after Bowman), a, termination of an interlobular artery; b, afferent arteries; c, a denuded vascular glomerulus; d, efferent vessel ; e, two of the glomeruli enclosed by the Malpighian capsules ; /, uriniferous tubes connected with them. Fig. 652.—Semidiagrammatic representation op a Malpighian Body in its RELATION TO THE UrINIPEROUS TuBE (from Kolliker). SOQ 1. a, capsule of the Malpighian body continuous with b, the membrana propria of the coiled uriniferous tube ; c, epithelium of the Malpighian body ; d, epithelium of the uriniferous tube; e, detached epithelium; /, afferent vessel; g, efferent vessel; h, convoluted vessels of the glomerulus. represents as adherent on one side to the glomerulus, and on the other to the capsular wall. Lastly, Isaacs, Moleschott, and Chrzonszczewsky maintain that the glomerulus and the capsule have each a separate coating of epithelium, and they agree in stating that the cells of the layer covering the glomerulus are considerably larger than those lining the capsule : Chrzonszczewsky re- commends sections of frozen kidneys as showing very perfectly the two layers in sitvj.