996 DEVELOPMENT OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. placed on the inner border of the Wolffian bodies. At first, they are placed near to one another, and parallel; the Wolffian bodies being at that time large, and occu- pying the whole posterior part of the abdomen. Bat as the kidneys grow, above and internal to the Wolffian bodies, the latter are displaced outwards, and with them the reproductive organs. At this time the sex becomes distinguishable ; for in the female the ovary becomes elongated and flattened, and it assumes at first an obli([ue and then a nearly transverse direction; whereas, in the male, the testis becomes Fig. 692. Fig. 692.—Diagram op the Primitive Urinary and Sex- ual Organs in the Embryo previous to Sexual Dis- tinction. The parts are shown chiefly in profile ; the kidney and supra- renal body of the right side are omitted, and the Miillerian and Wolffian ducts are shown from the front. 1, left kidney; 2 supra-reaal body ; 3, ureter ; 4, urinary bladder; 5, urachus 01, the mass of blastema from which ovary or testicle is after- wards formed ; W, left Wolffian body ; x , part at the apex from which the coni vasculosi are afterwards developed in new blastema ; iv, w, right and left Wolffian ducts ; w, m, right and left Miillerian ducts uniting toge- ther and with the Wolffian ducts in<7c, the genital cord ; ug, sinus uro-genitalis ; i, lower part of the intestine ; c I, common open- ing of the intestine and uro- genital sinus ; c, elevation which becomes clitoris or penis ; I s, ridge from which the labia majora or scrotum is formed. 00""'^^^%' / rounder and thick, and, to- ^ gether with the Wolffian body, — retains its vertical position, although displaced downwards and outwards. Subsequently the tubuli seminiferi are developed within the testis, and ova in the superficial strata of the ovary. Uterus and Failopian Tubes: Epididymis and Vasa Deferentia.—The excretory duct of each Wolffian body lies from the first along its outer border, and in the succeeding part of its course is continued down from the extremity of the Wolffian body to the sinus urogenitalis. As the Wolffian body begins to change its position, and at the same time decrease in size, a white thread of blastema appears on the front of that body, and runs along the inner side of the Wolffian duct in its whole course ; this forms the MiUlerian duct. At the upper extremity of the Wolffian body, and close to the white thread, there is likewise developed a pyramidal mass of blas- tenia, occupying the position originally held by the upper tubules of that gland, which seem to be absorbed to give place to it. The Miillerian duct, commencing by a slightly dilated extremity, descends in front of the excretory duct, to the lower end of the Wolffian body, where it dips down in front of that body, then turns over that duct so as to get behind it, and on arriving at the middle line comes in contact with its fellow of the opposite side, with which, and with the lower parts of the Wolffian ducts, it is united into a single cord, named the genital cord. The MUllerian ducts become as it were fused together, first at the upper and lower parts of the genital