THE CRANIAL NERVES. 584 agrees closely in structure witli the cerebral substance. It swells into an oval enlargement, the olfactory hulb, in front, wMch also contains much grey matter, and from this part small soft nerves descend through the cribriform plate into the nose. When traced backwards, it is found to be spread out and attached behind to the under surface of the anterior lobe by means of three roots, named external, middle, and internal, which pass in different directions. The bulbous part is therefore rather to be regarded as an olfactory lobe of the cerebrum than as a part of a true nerve, while the white part prolonged backwards into the brain, together with its so-called roots, may be termed the olfactory tract. The external or long root consists of a band of medullary fibres, which passes, in the form of a white streak, outwards and backwards along the anterior margin of the perforated space, towards the posterior border of the Sylvian fissure, where it may be followed into the substance of the cere- brum. Its further connections are doubtful, but it has been stated that its fibres have been traced to the following parts, viz., the convolutions of the island of Reil, the anterior commissure, and the superficial layer of the optic thalamus (Valentin). The middle or grey root is of a pyramidal shape, and consists of grey matter on the surface, which is prolonged from the adjacent part of the anterior lobe and perforated space. Within it there are white fibres, which have been traced to the corpus striatum. The internal root (short root, Scarpa), which cannot always be demon- strated, is composed of white fibres which may be traced from the inner and posterior part of the anterior lobe, where they are said by Foville to be connected with the longitudinal fibres of the gyrus fornicatus. The question whether the olfactory bulbs ought to be considered as nerves or as cerebral lobes is, if tested by reference to the history of development, not so simple as might at first appear. It is in favour of their being regarded as lobes, that in the lower vertebrate animals the olfactory bulbs are generally recognised by com- parative anatomists as additional encephalic lobes, and that in most mammals they are much larger proportionally than in man, and frequently contain a cavity or ventricle in their interior, and further that in their minute structure they nearly agree with the cerebrum; but as it is known that in the first development of the eye the peripheral part or retina, as well as the rest of the optic nerve, is originally formed by the extension of a hollow vesicle from the first foetal encephalic compart- ment, so in the case of the olfactory nerve, although the peripheral or distributed part is of separate origin from the olfactory bulb, the latter part is comparable in its origin with the optic vesicle. 2. The second pair or optic nerves of the 1,wo sides meet each other at the optic commissure (chiasma), where they partially decussate. From this point they may be traced backwards round the crura cerebri, under the name of the optic tracts. Each optic tract arises from the optic thalamus, the corpora quadri- gemina, and the corpora geniculata. As it leaves the under part of the thalamus, it makes a sudden bend forwards and then runs obliquely across the under surface of the cerebral peduncle, in the form of a flattened band, which is attached by its anterior surface to the peduncle ; after this, becoming more nearly cylindrical, it adheres to the tuber cinereum, from which and, as stated by Yicq-d'Azyr, from the lamina cinerea it is said to receive an accession of fibres, and thus reaches the optic commissure. In the commissure the nerve-fibres of the two sides undergo a partial de- cussation. The outer fibres of each tract continue onwards to the eye of the