809 LINGUAL PAPILLiE AND GLANDS. nerve filaments in the human tongue. It is still a matter of doubt whether they enter the secondary papillae surmounting the filiform set, the density of the tissue rendering the investigation peculiarly difficult in these. In the frog's tongue, Billroth and Axel Key believe that they have traced con- tinuity of nerve filaments with structures in the epithelium; and according to Axel Key, the arrangement is very similar to that of the olfactory cells —viz., rodlike bodies placed between the epithelial cells and continuous by their deep extremities with varicose fibres. (Billroth in Miiller's Archiv, 1858, p. 159; Axel Key in Reichert's Archiv, 1861, p. 329.) Glands.—The mucous mem- brane of the tongue is provided with numerous follicles and glands. The follicles, simple and compound, are scattered over the surface; but the rounded con- glomerate glands, called lingual glands, are collected about the posterior part of the dorsum of Fig. 567.—Racemose Mucous Gland, FROM THE Floor of the Mouth (from KoUiker). A, the entire gland as seen in sec- tion ; Y ^) covering of connective tissue; b, excretory duct; c, glandular vesicles ; cZ, duct of one of the lo- bules. B, diagram of one of the lobules, more highly magnified ; a, excretory duct of the lobule ; b, secondary branch ; c, the glandular vesicles as they lie together in the gland; d, the same separated, showing their con- nection as a glandular tube. the tongue, near the B. papillae vallatse and foramen csecum, into which last the ducts of several of these glands open. Other small glands are found also beneath the mucous mem- brane of the borders of the tongue. There is, in particular, a small group of these glands on the under surface of the tongue near the apex. They are there aggregated into a small oblong mass, out of which several ducts proceed and open separately on the mucous membrane. (Blandin, in Archives gen. de Medecine, 1823; Nuhn, Ueber eine noch nicht naher beschriebene Zungendriise, Mannheim, 1845.) B.—Muscular Substance.—The substance of the tongue is chiefly com- posed of muscular fibres, running in different but determinate directions;— hence the variety and regularity of its movements, and its numerous changes of form. Many of the contractile fibres of the tongue belong to muscles