685 SYNOPSIS OF MUSCULAR NERVES. The rectus capitis anticus major and minor are supplied by twigs from the upper cervical nerves ; the longus colli and scaleni muscles by twigs from the lower cervical nerves. The muscles of the chest, viz., the intercostals, subcostals, levatores cos- tarum, and triangularis sterni, are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The oUiqui, transversus, and rectus of the abdomen are supplied by the lower intercostal nerves ; and the oblique and transverse muscles also get branches from the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric nerves. The cremaster muscle is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. The quadratus lumhorum (like the psoas) receives small branches from the lumbar nerves before they form the plexus. The diaphragm receives the phrenic nerves from the fourth and fifth cer- vical nerves, and likewise sympathetic filaments from the plexuses round the phrenic arteries. The muscles of the urethra and penis are supplied by the pudic nerve ; the levator and sphincter ani by the pudic and by the fourth and fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves; and the coccygeals muscle by the three last named nerves. MUSCLES ATTACHING THE UPPER, LIMB TO THE TRUNK. The trapezius and the sterno-cleido-mastoid receive the distribution of the spinal accessory nerve, and, in union with it, filaments from the cervical plexus. The latissimus dorsi receives the long subscapular nerve. The rhomhoidei are supplied by a special branch from the anterior division of the fifth cervical nerve. The levator anguli scapulce is supplied by branches from the anterior division of the third cervical nerve, and sometimes partly also by the branch to the rhomboid muscles. The serratus magnus has a special nerve, the posterior thoracic, derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The suhclavius receives a special branch from the place of union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The pectorales are supplied by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus, the larger muscle receiving filaments from both these nerves, and the smaller from the inner only. MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Muscles of the shoulder.—The supraspinatus and infraspinatus are sup- plied by the supra scapular nerve ; the subscapularis by the two smaller subscapular nerves; the teres major by the second subscapular, and the deltoid and teres minor by the circumflex nerve. Posterior muscles of the arm and forearm.—The triceps, anconeus, supi- nator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by direct branches of the musculo-spiral nerve ; while the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the other extensor muscles in the forearm receive their branches from the pos- terior interosseous division of that nerve. Anterior muscles of the arm and forearm.—The coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve : the brachialis anticus likewise generally receives a twig from the musculo- spiral nerve. The muscles in front of the forearm are supplied by the median nerve, with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum, which are supplied by the