784 OEGANS OF DIGESTION, behind. While there is a slight diminution in the height of the exposed parts of the teeth from the incisors backwards to the wisdom-teeth, there is in man a general uniformity in the amount of projection of the crowns throughout the whole series. In consequence of the large proportionate breadth of the upper central incisors, the other teeth of the upper jaw are thrown somewhat outwards, so that in closure of the jaws the canine and bicuspid teeth come into contact partly with the corresponding lower teeth and partly with those next following ; and in the case of the molar teeth each cusp of the upper lies behind the corresponding cusp of the lower teeth. Since, however, the upper wisdom-teeth are smaller than those below, the dental ranges terminate behind nearly at the same point in both jaws. The Milk-teeth. — The temporary incisor and canine teeth resemble those of the permanent set in their general form ; but they are of smaller dimen- sions. The temporary molar teeth present some peculiarities. The hinder of the two is much the larger ; it is the largest of all the milk-teeth, and is larger even than the second permanent bicuspid, by which it is afterwards replaced. The crown of the first upper milk molar has only three cusps. Fig. 542. Fig. 542.—Milk Teeth of the Right Side op the Upper and Lower Jaws. a, the incisors; h, the canines ; c, the molar teeth. two external and one internal; that of the second has four distinct cusps. The first lower temporary molar has four cusps, and the second five, of which in the latter case three are external. The fangs of the temporary molars resemble those of the permanent set, but they are smaller, and are more divergent from the neck of the tooth. Structure.—On making a section of a tooth, the hard substance of which it is composed is found to be hollow in the centre. The form of the cavity bears a general resemblance to that of the tooth itself: it occupies the interior of the crown, is widest opposite to or a little above the neck, and ex- tends down each fang, at the point of which it opens by a small orifice. In the crown of the incisor teeth the cavity is prolonged into two fine linear canals, which proceed one to each corner of the crown ; in the bicuspid and molar teeth it advances a short distance into each cusp. In the case of a root formed by the blending of two or more fangs, as occurs occasionally in the wisdom-teeth, each division has a separate canal prolonged down to its apex.