676 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. b. The muscular branches are given off under cover of the biceps muscle; they supply the flexors of the leg, viz., the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. A branch is likewise given to the adductor magnus. INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The internal popliteal nerve, the larger of the two divisions of the great sciatic nerve, following the same direction as the parent trunk, continues along the middle of the popliteal space to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, beneath which point the continuation of the trunk receives the name of xjosterior tibial. The internal popliteal nerve lies at first at a considerable distance from the popliteal artery, Fig. 447. at the outer side and nearer to the surface; but, from the knee-joint downwards, the nerve, continuing a straight course, is close behind the artery, and then crosses it rather to the inner side. Fig. 447.—Posterior Cotaneous Nerves op the Leg (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveill^). s 1, internal popliteal division of the great sciatic nerve; 2, branch to the internal part of the gastrocnemius muscle ; 3, 4, branches to the external part and plan- taris ; 5, communicating branch to the external saphe- nous nerve; 6, external popliteal nerve ; 7, cutaneous branch ; 8, communicating branch descending to unite with that from the internal popliteal in, 9, the external saphenous nerve ; 10, calcaneal branch from this nerve ; 11, calcaneal and plantar cutaneous branches from the posterior tibial nerve ; 12, internal saphenous nerve; 13, posterior branches of this nerve. The inner division of the sciatic nerve, from its commencement to its partition at the foot, is often described in anatomical works under the same appel- lation throughout; the name varying, however, with different writers, as for example, " cruralis internus," or "popliteus internus,"—Winslow : "tibialis pos- terior,"—Haller : " tibialis vel tibieus,"—Fischer, &c. Branches.—The internal popliteal nerve sup- plies branches to the knee-joint and to the muscles of the calf of the leg, and also part of a cutaneous branch, the external or short sa- phenous nerve. Articular Nerves.—The articular branches are generally three in number; two of these accompany the upper and lower articular arteries of the inner side of the knee-joint, the third follows the middle or azygos artery. These nerves pierce the ligamentous tissue of the joint.—The upper one is often wanting. MuscDLAB, Branches.—The muscular branches of the internal popliteal nerve arise behind the knee-joint, while the nerve is between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle :— a. The nerves to the gastrocnemius consist of two branches, which separate one to supply each part of the muscle.