ANTEEIOK PRIMARY DIVISIONS. 635 fleshy part of the ilio-costalis, and the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi; they cross the iliac crest near the edge of the erector spinse, and terminate in the integument of the gluteal region. One or more of the filaments may be traced as far as the great trochanter of the femur. The internal hranches wind backwards in grooves close to the articular processes of the vertebrse, and sink into the multifidus spinse muscle. Sacral Nerves.—The posterior divisions of these nerves, except the last, issue from the sacrum through its posterior foramina. The first three are covered at their exit from the bone by the multifidus spinse muscle, and bifurcate like the posterior trunks of the other spinal nerves ; but the remaining two, which continue below that muscle, have a peculiar arrangement, and require separate examination. The internal hranches of the first three sacral nerves are small, and are lost in the multifidus spinse muscle. The external tranches of the same nerves are united with one another, and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral nerves, so as to form a series of anastomotic loops on the upper part of the sacrum. These branches are then directed outwards to the cutaneous or posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where, covered by the gluteus maximus muscle, they form a second series of loops, and end in cutaneous nerves. These pierce the great gluteus muscle in the direction of a line from the posterior iliac spine to the tip of the coccyx. They are commonly three in number—one is near the innominate bone, another opposite the extremity of the sacrum, and the third about midway between the other two. All are directed out- wards over the great gluteal muscle. In six dissections by Ellis this arrangement was found to be the most frequent. The variations to which it is liable are these :—the first nerve may not take part in the second series of loops, and the fourth may be associated with them. The posterior divisions of the last two sacral nerves are smaller than those above them, and are not divided into external and internal branches. They are connected with each other by a loop on the back of the sacrum, and the lowest is joined in a similar manner with the coccygeal nerve ; one or two small filaments from these sacral nerves are distributed behind the coccyx. Coccygeal Nerve.—The posterior division of the coccygeal nerve is very small, and separates from the anterior primary portion of the nerve in the sacral canal. It is joined by a communicating filament from the last sacral nerve, and ends in the fibrous structure covering the posterior surface of the coccyx. ANTERIOE PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are distributed to the parts of the body situated in front of the vertebral column, including the limbs. They are, for the most part, considerably larger than the posterior divisions. The anterior division of each spinal nerve is connected by one or two slender filaments with the sympathetic. Those of the cervical, lumbar, and sacral nerves form plexuses of various forms ; but those of the dorsal nerves remain for the most part separate one from another. T 1 2