870 THE LIVER. with the delicate areolar tissue which lies between the small lobules of the gland. At the transverse fissure it becomes continuous with the capsule of Glisson, by which name is designated a, sheath of areolar tissue which sur- rounds the branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, as they ramify in the substance of the liver, and which becomes more delicate as the vascular branches become smaller. Lobules.—The proper substance of the liver, which has a reddish brown colour and a mottled aspect, is compact, but not very firm. It is easily cut or lacerated, and is not unfrequently ruptured during life from accidents in which other parts of the body have escaped injury. When the substance of the liver is torn, the broken surface is not smooth but coarsely granular, the liver being composed of a multitude of small lobules, which vary from half a line to a line in diameter. These lobules are closely packed polyhedral masses, and in some animals, as in the pig, are completely isolated one from another by areolar tissue con- tinuous with the fibrous coat of the liver and with the capsule of Glisson ; but in the human subject, and in most animals, although they are very distinguishable on account of the disposition both of vessels and parenchyma, they are not distinctly separated, but exhibit continuity through their capillary networks and cellular constituents. Notwithstanding this, how- ever, we may consider the lobules of the human liver as being marked out by slight interlobular intervals. Fig. 607. Fig. 607.—Longitudinal Section OF A Portal Canal, containing A Portal Vein, Hepatic Artery, and Hepatic Duct, FROM THE Pig (after Kiernan). f p, branch of vena portae, situated in c, c, a portal canal, formed amongst the lobules of the liver {I, I) ; p, p, vaginal branches of portal vein, giving off smaller ones (^, i), named interlobular veins; there are also seen within the large portal vein numerous orifices of the smallest interlobular veins arising directly from it; a, hepatic artery; d, hepatic duct. The lobules of the liver have throughout its substance in general the polyhedral form of irregularly compressed sphe- roids ; but on the surface they are flattened and angular. d a They are all compactly ar- ranged round the sides of branches of the hepatic veins, each lobule resting by a smooth surface or 6ase, upon the vein, and being connected with it by a small venous trunk, which arises in the centre of the lobule, and passes out from the middle of its base to end in the larger subjacent vessel. The small veins pro- ceeding from the centre of the lobules are named the intralobular veins, and those on which the lobules rest, the sublobular veins. If one of these sublobular veins be opened, the bases of the lobules may be seen through