924 THE THYMUS GLAND. the left innommate vein, some areolar tissue being interposed between it and these parts. In the neck, it lies upon the front and corresponding side of the trachea. Its external border is in contact with the corresponding layer of the mediastinal pleura^ near the internal mammary artery, and higher up (in the neck), with the carotid artery, or its sheath. The internal border is in close contact with that of the opposite lateral lobe. The dimensions of the thymus vary according to its stage of development. At birth it measures above two inches in length, an inch and a half in width at its lower part, and about three or four lines in thickness. Its weight at that period is about half an ounce. Its specific gravity, which is at first about 1 '050, diminishes as the gland continues to waste. Chemical Composition.—The substance and fluid of the thymus contain nearly eighty per cent, of water. Its solid animal constituents are com- posed essentially of albumen and fibrin in large quantities, mixed with gelatine and other animal matter. The salts are principally alkaline and earthy phosphates, with chloride of potassium. Structure.—The lateral halves or lobes of the thymus gland are each surrounded by a proper investment of thin areolar tissue, which encloses in a common envelope the smaller masses composing it. This tissue being removed, the substance of the gland is found to consist of numerous com- pressed lobules, the most of them from two to five lines in diameter, con- nected by a more delicate intervening areolar tissue. These primary lobules, as they may be called, are each made up externally of smaller or secondary lobules, of a compressed pyriform shape, placed close together with their bases outwardly, and are arranged round an elongated central stem (reservoir of the thymus, Cooper), running through each lateral half of the gland, and more or less spirally twisted. On making a section of the thymus, there is obtained a milky substance consisting of fluid rich in nuclei and small nucleated cells. The walls both of the lobules and the larger stems are limited by a fine homogeneous membrane (Simon) ; the substance in the interior of this appears at first sight to be entirely composed of corpuscles of the kind just mentioned, varying in diameter from -g^ s^iyW"^^ inch, and having the appearance of free nuclei ; but, on closer examination, according to Kolli- ker and His, seen to be mostly contained within delicate cells. The sub- stance contained within the limiting membrane is not, however, a mere fluid with corpuscles, but possesses a delicate reticulum of connective tissue, and, as was first pointed out by Kolliker, likewise capillary blood vessels, resembling in this respect the substance which occupies the interior of Payer's glands. According to Astley Cooper the central stem of the thj'^mus presents a continuous cavity, the ramifications of which pass into both primary and secondary lobules. The existence of a central cavity has been since doubted by some and affirmed by others ; the difficulty, however, may now be re- garded as cleared up, since the discovery of connective tissue and blood-vessels within the lobulated structure ; for it is admitted that in the centres of the lobules, sub-lobules and central stem, the capillaries and reticulum of con- nective tissue are deficient and the corpuscles most abundant, while on the other hand it is equally certain that there is no cavity bounded by epithelial lining. Considered in relation to development. Cooper's view is correct ; for it has been shown by Simon that the primitive form of the thymus gland is a linear tube, from which, as it grows, lateral branched diverticula subse- quently bud out, but that in the mature thymus this tube becomes obscure.