839 Fig. 586.—View of the Duodenum from Fig. 586. THE DUODENUM. are no distinct lines of denaarcation between these three parts, but, there are certain peculiarities of connection and certnin differences of internal structure to be observed in comparing the upper and lower ends of the entire tube, which will be pointed out after it has been described as a whole. Duodenum.—This is the shortest and widest part of the small intes- tine. In length it measures 10 or 12 inches, or nearly the breadth of twelve fingers ; hence its name. It is the widest part of the small intestine, varying in diameter between an inch and a half and two inches. In its course it describes a single large curve somewhat resembling a horse-shoe, the convexity of which is turned towards the right, whilst the concavity embraces the head of the pancreas. It has no mesentery, and is covered only partially by the peritoneum. Its muscular coat is comparatively thick, and its mucous membrane towards BEFORE (slightly altered from Luschka). \ 12, the twelfth dorsal vertebra and rib ; 1, 3, 4, 5, transverse processes of the first, third, fourth, and fifth left lumbar vertebrae ; 2, that of the second on the right side ; a, a, the abdominal aorta above the cceliac axis and near the bifurcation ; m, superior mesenteric artery ; v, v, the vena cava above the renal veins and near the bifurcation ; p, placed on the first part of the duodenum, points to the pyloric valve seen from the side next the stomach, of which a small part is left con- nected with the intestine ; d, on the descend- ing or second part of the duodenum, indicates the termination of the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct ; d', the third or oblique part of the duodenum ; j, the commencement of the jejunum. the pylorus is the seat of the com- pound glands of Brunner, to be sub- sequently described. The common bile duct and the pancreatic duct open into this part of the intestinal canah Three portions of the duodenum, differing from each other in their course and connections, are separately described by anatomists ; viz. the superior, descending, and transverse portions. The first, or superior portion, which is between two and three inches long, commences at the pylorus, and passing upwards, backwards, and to the right side, reaches as far as beneath the neck of the gall-bladder, where the intestine bends suddenly downwards. This first portion of the duodenum is for the most part free, and invested both in front and behind by the peri- toneum. Above, and in front of it, are the liver and gall-bladder, and it is commonly found stained by the exudation of bile from the latter a few hours after death. Behind it is the hepatic duct, with the blood-vessels passing up to the liver. The second, or descending portion, commencing at the bend below the neck of the gall-bladder passes vertically downwards in front of the right kidney, as low as the second or third lumbar vertebra, where the bowel turns across to the left to form the third portion. This part of the