THE BEAIK—OEIGIN OF NEEVES. 1C51 araclinoid membrace and pia mater are stripped off, except from the angle be- tween tlie cerebellum and medulla oblongata, the principal parts of the brain visible from the base are to be examined. These are :—the fissure of Sylvius separating the anterior from the middle lobe, and contained in it the hidden convolutions or island of Reil; at the entrance of the fissure the locus perforatus auticus, and terminating in it the inferior part of the trans- verse fissure of the cerebrum ; also, the crura cerebri emerging from before the pons Varolii, the anterior extremity of the corpus caliosum lying in the bottom of the great longitudinal fissure, and below it, proceediDg backwards in the middle line, the lamina cinerea, the optic commissure, the tuber cinereum, the infundibulum, the corpora albicantia, and the locus per- foratus posticus (p. 636). The principal objects to be noted on the medulla oblongata are the anterior pyramids with their decussation and the olivary bodies on the front, and the restiform bodies on its lateral aspect ; pos- teriorly are the posterior pyramids, and the calamus scriptorius, and its prolongation downwards into the minute remains of the central canal of the spinal cord (p. 514). The fourth ventricle, situated between the medulla oblongata and cerebellum, is now brought into view, and at its sides will be observed the fringes of pia mater called choroid plexus of the fourth ven- tricle, the two small lobules of the cerebellum at the sides of the medulla oblongata named the flocculi or sub-peduncular lobes, and behind them the amygdalae ; while above the medulla are the parts belonging to the middle lobe of the cerebellum, afterwards more fully noticed (p. 521). The origins of the cranial nerves may next be examined. The first pair or olfactory tracts and bulbs are seen on the anterior lobes, and should be traced back to the white strise by which they arise at the inside of the fissure of Sylvius ; the second and fourth nerves are seen passing round the crura cerebri, the optic tracts from the corpora quadrigemina, optic thaiami and corpora geniculata, the fourth nerve from the valve of Vieussens ; the third pair lying close together on the inner aspects of the crura cerebri; the fifth pair emerging by two roots from the front of the pons Varolii; the sixth in front of the anterior pyramids ; the seventh nerve in two parts, the portio dura and portio mollis, in the angle between the medulla ob- longata, pons Varolii and cerebellum ; the eighth pair in three parts, the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus or pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory, in front of the restiform body ; the ninth pair in front of the olivary body ; and the suboccipital (or first cervical nerve of some authors) close below the ninth (p. 583). The cerebellum is to be separated from the structures to which it is attached by division of its superior, middle and inferior crura. The general disposition of its convolutions and the superior vermiform process will be noted, as also the parts entering into the formation of the inferior vermiform process lying in the vallecula beneath, viz., the pyramid, uvula, and laminated tubercle, together with the posterior velum. Sections of the cerebellum are to be made to exhibit the arbor vitse and the grey centre known as the corpus dentatum or rhomboideum. In conclusion, sections may be made of the pons Varolii to show its transverse and longitudinal fibres, of the medulla oblongata to show the olivary nucleus or corpus den- tatum, and of the crura cerebri to show the locus niger. The venous sinuses, arteries, and nerves in the base of the skull, ought now to be examined, if there is time, before the subject is turned on its back. The superior longitudinal sinus, the inferior longitudinal and the straight sinus (with the veins of Galen entering it), and the poste- rior occipital sinus are to be traced to the torcular Herophili; and the