EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. 743 The muscle of the tragus (m. tragicus) is a flat bundle of short fibres covering the outer surface of the tragus : its direction is nearly vertical. The muscle of the antitragus (m. antitragicus) is placed obliquely over the antitragus and behind the lower part of the antihelix. It is fixed at one end to the antitragus, from which point its fibres ascend to be inserted into the tail-like extremity of the helix, above and behind the lobule. The transverse muscle (m. transversus auriculae) lies on the inner or cranial surface of the pinna, and consists of radiating fibres which extend from the back of the concha to the prominence which corresponds with the groove of the helix. The oblique muscle (Tod) consists of a few fibres stretching from the back of the concha to the convexity directly above it, across the back of the inferior branch of the antihelix, and near the fibres of the transverse muscle. Arteries of the pinna.—l}\xe posterior auricular a,riery, a branch from the external carotid, is distributed chiefly on the posterior or inner surface, but sends small branches round and through the cartilage to ramify on the outer surface of the pinna. Besides this artery, the auricle receives others, the anterior auricular from the temporal in front, and a small artery from the occipital behind. The vems correspond much in their course with the arteries. They join the tem- poral vein, and their blood is returned therefore through the external jugular. Nerves of the pinna.—The great auricular nerve (p. 638), from the cervical plexus, sup- plies the greater part of the back of the auricle, and sends small filaments with the pos- terior auricular artery to the outer surface of the lobule and the part of the ear above it. V^)xQ posterior auricular nerve, derived from the facial (p. 612), after communicating with the auricular branch of thepneumogastric, ramifies on the back of the ear and supplies the retrahent muscle. The upper muscles of the auricle receive their supply from the temporal branches of the same nerve. The auriculo-tempo7'al branch of the third division of the fifth nerve (p. 606) gives filaments chiefly to the outer and anterior surface of the pinna. THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. The external auditory canal (meatus auditorius externus) extends from the bottom of the concha to the membrane of the tympanum, and serves to convey to the middle chamber of the ear the vibrations of sound collected by the auricle. The canal is about one inch and a quarter in length. In Fig. 499. downwards to borne in mind its termination, by the surgeon i Fig. 499.—View of the Lower Halu* op the Auricle and Meatus in the Left Ear DIVIDED BY A HoRI&ONTAL SECTION (after Sommerring). 1 and 2, cut surfaces of the bony part of the meatus ; 3, cut surface of the cartilage of the pinna ; 4, external meatus with the openings of numerous ceruminous glands indicated ; 5, lobule; 6, membrane of the tympanum ; 7, dura mater lining the skull. its inward course it is inclined somewhat forwards ; and it presents likewise a dis- tinct vertical curve, being directed at first somewhat upwards, and afterwards turning somewhat abruptly over a convexity of the osseous part of its floor, and dipping —a change of direction which must be 1 introducing specula into the ear. The