DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. 803 During the general adhesion of the dental groove occurring at the fifteenth week, the part posterior to the last temporary molar follicle continues unob- literated, and thus forms a cavity of reserve, in the fundus of which a papilla ultimately appears, and forms the rudiment of the first permanent molar tooth : this takes place very early, viz., at the sixteenth week. The deepest part of this cavity is next converted by adhesion into a sac, which encloses the papilla, whilst its upper portion elongates backwards so as to form another cavity of reserve, in which, at the seventh month after birth, the papilla for the second molar tooth appears. After a long interval, during which the sac of the first permanent molar and its contained tooth have acquired great size, and that of the second molar has also advanced con- siderably in development, the same changes once more occur, and give rise to the sac and papilla of the wisdom tooth, the rudiments of which are visible at the sixth year. The subsequent development of the permanent molar teeth takes place from these sacs just like that of the other teeth. Calcification begins first in the anterior permanent molar teeth. Its order and periods may be thus stated for the upper jaw, the lower being a little earlier. First molar, five or six months after birth ; central incisor, a little later; lateral incisor and canine, eight or nine months ; two bicuspids, two years or more ; second molar, five or six years ; third molar, or wisdom tooth, about twelve years. Fig. 561.—Part of the Lower Jaw of a Child of Three or Four Years Old, SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF THE TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT TeETH. The specimen contains all the milk teeth of the right side, together with the incisors of the left; the inner plate of the jaw has been removed, so as to expose the sacs of all the permanent teeth of the right side, except the eighth or wisdom tooth, which is not yet formed. The large sac near the ramus of the jaw is that of the first permanent molar, and above and behind it is the commencing rudimeut of the second molar. Eruption of the permanent teeth.—The time at which this occurs in regard to each pair of teeth in the lower jaw is exhibited in the subjoined table. The corresponding teeth of the upper jaw appear somewhat later. Molar, first , . 6 years. Incisors, central . . . . . . . . . 7 ,, lateral . Bicuspids, anterior ,, posterior ,, puHuei Canines Molars, second . 8 9 10 third (or wisdom) 11 to 12 12 to 13 17 to 25 > >