916 THE LARYNX. and the interior of the laryux, being lined within by the mucous membrane of the larynx. Its anterior part is covered by the upper part of the crico- thyroid muscle. The upper part is in close contact and indeed is sometimes blended with the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The thy ro-arytenoid is a broad flat muscle situated above the lateral crico- arytenoid. It is thick below and in front, and becomes thinner above and behind. It consists of several muscular fasciculi, which arise in froiit from the internal surface of the thyroid cartilage, adjacent to the lower two-thirds of the angle formed by the junction of the two alse. They extend almost horizontally backwards and outwards to reach the ba^e of the arytenoid cartilage. The lower portion of the muscle, which forms a thick fasciculus, receives a few additional fibres from the posterior surface of the crico- thyroid membrane, and is inserted into the anterior projection on the base of the arytenoid cartilage and to the adjacent part of the surface close to the insertion of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle. The thinner portion of the thyro-arytenoid muscle is inserted higher up on the anterior surface and Fig. 642. Fig. 642.—View of the Interior OP THE Left Half of the La- KYNX (after Hilton). a, left arytenoid cartilage ; c, c, divided surfaces of the cricoid car- tilage ; t, thyroid cartilage; e, epiglottis ; v, left ventricle of the larynx ; r, left inferior or true vocal cord ; s, placed on the inner wall of the laryngeal pouch ; b, aryteno-epiglottidean muscle; /, interior of the trachea. outer border of the arytenoid cartilage. The lower portion of the muscle assists in the formation, or at least contri- butes to the support, of the true vocal cord, lying parallel with the rima glottidis, im- mediately on the outer side of the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, with which it is in- timately connected, and into the outer surface of which some of its fibres are inserted. The upper thin portion, ex- ternal to the lower, lies upon the laryngeal pouch and ventricle, close beneath the mucous membrane. The entire muscle may be dissected indeed from the interior of the larynx by raising the mucous membrane of the sinus and vocal cord. Fibres from this muscle pass round the border of the arytenoid cartilage, and become continuous with some of the oblique fibres of the arytenoid muscle, to be presently described. Santorini described three thyro-arytenoid muscles, an inferior and middle, which are constant, and a superior, which is sometimes present. The fibres of the superior fasciculus, when present, arise nearest to the notch of the thyroid cartilage, and are