DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMBS. 1062 within this circle the lactiferous ducts and sacculi will be brought into view. Let the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major muscle now be divided near the clavicle for the examination of the subclavicular space, preserving the external anterior thoracic nerve as it passes to that muscle (p. 645) ; and let the costo-coracoid membrane and sheath of the axillary vessels be examined (p. 229). Then let the sheath be removed, and let the termi- nation of the cephalic vein and the parts of the axillary artery and vein brought into view be studied, and also the superior or short thoracic, acromio-thoracic and thoracico-humeral branches (pp. 377 and 468). For the dissection of the axillary space, the skin and the fascia are to be separately raised from its surface (p. 230), and in the first place the great vessels and nerves of the limb should be carefully exposed as they pass from the axilla into the brachial region, but without much disturbing their position. The axillary artery and vein are then to be followed upwards, and the fat removed from within the space, when the long thoracic vessels will be found chiefly along the anterior border, the sub- scapular vessels piincipally along the posterior border, and the alar twigs more in the middle. At this stage there will also be seen on the inner wall of the axilla the intercosto-humeral with other lateral cutaneous branches of intercostal nerves pierciug the serratus magnus muscle (p. 657), the posterior thoracic nerve descending on the surface of that muscle to supply it (p. 644), and on the posterior wall the three subscapular nerves (p. 645). When the axilla has been sufficiently studied, the remainder of the pectoralis major muscle is to be divided ; the pectoralis minor muscle also is to be dissected and divided, and the internal anterior thoracic nerve, which supplies it, is to be found. By this proceeding the axillary vessels will be exposed in their whole course, and the origins of the braDches of the axillary artery may be more fully examined, viz., the acromio-thoracic, the alar thoracic, short and long thoracic, and subscapular arteries, and the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries. Three cords of the brachial plexus will also be seen ; the outer one giving off the musculo-cutaneons, the external anterior thoracic, and the outer head of the median nerve ; the inner giving off the inner head of the median nerve, the internal cutaneous nerve, the nerve of Wrisberg and the ulnar ; the posterior giving off the three subscapular nerves, the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral nerve. At this time, affcer removing the costo-coracoid fascia, the sub- clavius muscle should be cleaned and examined (p. 206). On the fourth day after the subject has been placed upon its back, the clavicle is to be sawn through the middle, or disarticulated at its sternal end, if this should be recommended by the Demonstrator. The dissector of the arm may then, in company with the dissector of the head and neck, on the same side, obtain a continuous view of the upper part of the brachial plexus, and trace the origins of the suprascapular and posterior thoracic nerves (p. 641). The axillary vessels and the main trunks of the brachial plexus of nerves are afterwards to be securely tied together opposite the outer border of the first rib, and divided above the ligature ; the lower parts may subsequently be retained in position, by tyiog them to the portion of the clavicle left with the arm. The serratus magnus muscle may now be put upon the stretch, and should be fuUy studied before the removal of the arm (p. 207). 3. Scapular Musclesj Vessels, and Nerves.—After the arm has been removed, the first duty of the dissector is to clean the parts which have