1061 DORSAL REGION.—PECTOEAL REGION. semispinalis dorsi and colli muscles may then be examined. Lastly, the deepest muscles, multifidus spinge, rotatores spinje, inter-spinales, and inter- transversales are to be dissected (p. 238). At this stage of the dissection a good view may be obtained of the posterior margins of the obliqiius externus and obliquus iuternus muscles of the abdomen, and of the posterior and middle layers of the lumbar aponeu- rosis, which are continuous behind with the transversalis muscle : the dissection of these muscles, however, belongs to the abdomen, and they must not be injured (p. 199). The next proceeding for a senior dissector is to lay bare the spinal cord ; for this purpose he will straighten as much as possible the lumbar vertebrae, by placing blocks underneath the abdomen, and will let the neck hang slightly downwards. He will then saw through the laminae of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae on each side, keeping the edge of the saw directed slightly inwards, and will continue the saw-cuts below on the back of the sacrum, so as to meet each other where the sacral canal becomes incomplete. The part so isolated may easily be raided with the chisel, and with the bone- nippers the whole laminae of the vertebrae may be removed, attached to one another by their elastic ligaments. In several spaces of the lower dorsal region the articular processes of the vertebrae may be removed, so as to expose one or more of the spinal nerves issuing from the canal, and these, being dissected for a little distance beyond their ganglia, may be afterwards taken out along with the cord. The theca of dura mater ought now to be made as clean as p»ossible by removing the fat from its surface, and, after being examined, should be slit open, that the other membranes and the relations of the cord may be examined in situ ; more particularly, the ligamentum denticulatum, the position of the lower extremity of the cord, the Cauda equina, and the filum terminale will be observed (pp. 602 and 565). The spinal cord and its membranes are then to be removed from the body and stretched out upon a table, when the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves and some of the ganglia in connexion with the latter may be observed ; also the external form and structure of the cord, with the anterior, middle, and posterior columns, the anterior and posterior iissure, &c.; and, lastly, several sections of the cord, in different places, may be made to exhibit the relations of the grey and white matter within. 2. Pectoral Region and Axilla.—Within four days after the subject has been laid upon its back, the pectoral region and the axilla are to be dis- sected. Let a median incision be made in front of the sternum, and from its upper end let another be carried along the clavicle to the acromion, and thence downwards to the inside of the middle line of the arm, a little below the fold of the axilla, and a third horizontally outwards from the lower end of the sternum. Then let the skin be reflected from the pectoralis major muscle (p. 203), and let the senior student in doing this 2jreserve the fibres of the platysma myoides and the suprasternal and supra- clavicular branches of the cervical plexus of nerves descending over the clavicle (pp. 170 and 639), the anterior cutaneous branches of the inter- costal nerves, with the accompanying twigs from the internal mammary artery near the middle line, and two or three small anterior twigs of the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves appearing round the lower border of the muscle (pp. 656 and 375). If the subject be a female, let him also dissect the mammary gland, and in raising the general integument leave the skin of the nipple, by carrying a circular incision round it of about two inches in diameter (p. 1002). By raising the skin