827 INFLECTIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. If the examination of the peritoneal folds be commenced on the under surface of the diaphragm, it will be found that on the left side it can be traced back to the posterior wall of the abdomen, and down in front of the upper part of the kidney to the commencement of the descending colon. Further to the right, it is reflected from the diaphragm over the front of the stomach, and from the left of the stomach passes across a very short interval to the spleen, which it completely invests ; and it is continued back from the spleen to the abdominal wall. Still further to the right, the peritoneum is reflected from the diaphragm to the liver, invests the whole superior surface of that organ, and passes round its anterior and lateral margins to invest the whole of its inferior surface, with the exception only of so much as lies behind the portal fissure, viz., the lobule of Spigelius. On the upper surface of the liver the peritoneum is thrown into a right and a left fossa by a vertical antero-posterior fold attaching it to the diaphragm, which is named the falciform or suspensory ligament of the liver. In the lower margin of this ligament a fibrous cord, consisting of the obliterated remains of the umbilical vein, and named the round ligament of the liver, extends upwards from the umbilicus to the longitudinal fissure which divides inferiorly the right lobe of the liver from the left; and it is the reflection of the peritoneum from this cord which forms the falciform ligament. The thick posterior border of the liver, uninvested with peritoneum, is in contact with the diaphragm ; and the reflexions of peritoneum from the upper and under surfaces of the organ to the parietes above and below this border con- stitute the coronary ligament. Towards the right and left extremities of the liver the superior and inferior layers of the coronary ligament come into contact for a little way, and form the rigid and left triangular ligaments of the liver. The portion of peritoneum reflected from the under surface of the liver, opposite the portal fissure, passes down over the vena portse, hepatic artery, and biliary ducts, to the pyloric extremity of the stomach aud first part of the duodenum ; while that which invests the part of the liver to the right of the portal fissure is conducted back to the posterior wall of the abdomen. If now, the disposition of the peritoneum be examined in the spot where those two modes of arrangement meet, an aperture sufficiently large to admit a finger, and formed by invagination of the peritoneum, will be found leading, from right to left, behind the hepatic vessels and duct : this aper- ture is the foramen of Winslow ; and the fold of peritoneum in front of it, containing the portal vein, hepatic artery, and biliary ducts, is termed the small or gastro-hepatic omentum. The foramen of Winslow has above it a portion of the liver ; behind it the vena cava inferior ; below it the duodenum; and in front the small omentum. The invagination of peritoneum which takes place at the foramen of Winslow is of great extent, expanding to form a large pouch, which lies behind the stomach, and stretches downwards to a variable degree in front of the transverse colon. This is the sac of the omentum or smaller cavity of the peritoneum, which will be presently described. On tracing downwards the peritoneum investing the anterior surface of the stomach, it is seen to be prolonged from the inferior border of that viscus to form a pendulous fold of omentum lying loosely in front of the colon and small intestines, and having a free margin inferiorly. Folding backwards on itself at this margin, the peritoneum passes upwards to the transverse colon and becomes adherent to its surface, whence it is continued back to the abdominal wall.