961 PROSTATIC PORTION—SINUS POCULARIS. brane, supported by an outer layer of submucous tissue connecting it with the several parts through which it passes. In the submucous tissue there are, throughout the whole extent of the urethra, two layers of plain mus- cular fibres, the innermost disposed longitudinally, and the other in a circular direction. In accordance with the name or character of those parts through which it passes, three divisions of the urethra are separately described as the prostatic, membranous, and spongy portions. 1. The first, or prostatic portion, is the part which passes through the prostate gland. It is from 12 to 15 lines in length, is the widest part of the canal, and is larger in the middle than at either end : at the neck of the bladder its diameter is nearly 4 lines, then it widens a little, so as to be rather more than 4 lines, and in old persons 5 or 6, after which it diminishes like a funnel, until, at its anterior extremity, it is smaller than at its commencement. It passes through the upper part of the pros- tate, above the middle lobe, so that there is more of the gland below it than above. Though enclosed in the firm glandular substance, it is more dilatable than any other part of the urethra ; but immediately at the neck of the bladder, it is, as elsewhere stated, much more resistant. The trans- verse section of the urethra, as it lies in the prostate, is widened from side to side and somewhat folded upwards in the middle, the upper and under surface being in contact. The lining membrane of the prostatic portion of the urethra is thrown into longitudinal folds, when no fluid is passing along it ; it forms no proper valve at the neck of the bladder, unless the elevation named the uvula vesicfe is to be regarded as such. Somewhat in advance of this, and con- tinued from it along the floor of the passage, projects a narrow median ridge, about 8 or 9 lines in length, and 1^ line in its greatest height ; this ridge gradually rises into a peak, and sinks down again at its anterior or lower end, and is formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and subjacent tissue. This is the crest of the urethra (crista urethrse), more generally called caput galli^iaginis and verumontanum. On each side of this ridge the surface is slightly depressed, so as to form a longitudinal groove, named the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is pierced by numerous fora- mina, the orifices of the prostatic ducts. Through these a viscid fluid oozes out on pressure ; the ducts of the middle lobe open behind the urethral crest, and some others open before it. Sinus pocularis.—At the fore part of the most elevated portion of the crest, and exactly in the middle line, is a recess, upon or within the margins of which are placed the slit-like openings of the common seminal, or ejacu- latory ducts, one at each side. This median depression, named sinus pocularis, vesica prostatica, or utricle, was first described by Morgagni, and has more lately attracted renewed attention, as corresponding with the structure which in the female is developed into the uterus. The utricle forms a cul-de-sac running upwards or backwards, from three to five lines deep, and usually about one line wide at its entrance and for some distance up, but acquiring a width of at least two lines at its upper end or fundus. The prominent walls of the narrow portion form the urethral crest, and its fundus appears to lie behind and beneath the middle lobe, and between the two lateral lobes of the prostate. Its parietes, which are dis- tinct, and tolerably thick, are composed of fibrous tissue and mucous mem- brane, together with a few muscular fibres, and enclose on each side the ejacu- latory duct ; numerous small glands open on its iuner surface. According to Kobelt and others, the caput gallinaginis contains some well-marked erectile 3 R