630 THE SPINAL NEKVES. THE ROOTS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. Each spinal nerve springs from the spinal cord by two roots which approach one another, and, as they quit the spinal canal, join in the corresponding intervertebral foramen into a single cord ; and each cord so formed separates immediately into two divisions one of which is destined for parts in front of the spine, the other for parts behind it. The posterior roots of the nerves are distinguished from the anterior roots by their greater size, as well as by the greater thickness of the fasciculi of which they are composed. Each spinal nerve is furnished with a ganglion ; but the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve is in some cases without one. The size of the ganglia is in proportion to that of the nerves on which they are formed. The ganglia are in general placed in the intervertebral foramina, imme- diately beyond the points at which the roots perforate the dura mater lining the spinal canal. The first and second cervical nerves, however, which leave the spinal canal over the laminae of the vertebrae, have their ganglia opposite those parts. The ganglia of the sacral nerves are contained in the spinal canal, that of the last nerve being occasionally at some distance from the point at which the nerve issues. The ganglion of the coccygeal nerve is placed within the canal in the sac of dura mater, and at a variable dis- tance from the origin of the nerve. Fig. 421. Fig. 421.—Different Views of a Portion op THE Spinal Cord from THE Cervical Region WITH THE Roots of THE Nerves. Slightly- enlarged. In A, the anterior sur- face of the specimen is shown, the anterior nerve- root of the right side being divided ; in B, a view of the right side is given ; in C, the upper surface is shown ; in D, the nerve-roots and gan- glion are shown from below. 1, the anterior median fissure; 2, pos- terior median fissure; 3, anterior lateral depres- sion, over which the ante- rior nerve-roots are seen to spread ; 4, posterior lateral groove, into which the posterior roots are seen to sink; 5, anterior roots passing the ganglion ; 5', in A, the anterior root divided ; 6, the posterior roots, the fibres of which enter the ganglion, 6' ; 7, the united or compound nerve ; 7', the posterior primary branch seen in A and D, to be derived in part from the anterior and in part from the posterior root. The fibres of the posterior root of the nerve divide into two bundles as they approach the ganglion, and the inner extremity of the oval-shaped ganglion is sometimes bilobate, the lobes corresponding to the two bundles of fibres.