524 THE CEREBELLUM. larger fissures, many of the folia are seen to lie concealed within them, and do not reach the surface of the cerebellum. Certain fissures, which are deeper than the rest, and constant in their position, have been described as separating the cerebellum into lobes, which are named as follows :— The central lohe, situated on the upper surface, consists of about eight folia, immediately adjoining the anterior concave border. The superior and anterior lobe, sometimes called quadrate, and the superior and posterior lobe, are placed between the central lobe and the great horizontal fissure. On the under surface are seen successively the inferior posterior lobe, the slender lobe, the biventral lobe, the amygdala, and the suhpeduncidar lohe or flocculus. This last-named lobule, lohule of the pneumo-gastric nerve (Vicq-d'Azyr), suhpeduncular lobe (Gordon), or flocculus, projects behind and below the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. It is connected by a slender pedicle of white fibres to the rest of the hemisphere ; but its exposed surface is grey, and is subdivided into five or six small laminae. Fig. 356. Fig. 356.—Inferior Surface of the Cerebellum with the Posterior Medullary Velum (after Reil and Reichert and from nature). | The medulla oblongata has been in great part removed by a cut passing through it near the pons Varolii ; the two amygdaloid lobules have also heen removed, and the medulla and pons Varolii pulled downwards in order to bring into view the posterior medullary velum. ps, posterior superior lobe of the cerebellum ; fh, horizontal fissure ; pi, posterior inferior lobe; g, lobulus gracilis; bi, biventral lobe; c, placed on the folia which pass across between the hemispheres of opposite sides ; p, pyramid ; u, uvula ; n, placed in the fourth ventricle immediately below the nodule ; pv, on each side, placed on the cut eurface where the amygdalae have been removed, points by a line to the posterior medullary velum ; v, v, cavity of the fourth ventricle within the borders of the velum and behind the inferior cerebellar peduncles ; the cavity extends on each side into the pedicle of the flocculus, // m, section of the medulla oblongata, in which the open condition of the olivary capsules of grey matter is shown ; VI, sixth nerves ; V, fifth nerve-roots, and above them, the facial and auditory roots. Within the vallecula, or on its borders, the following parts are seen :— Commencing from behind, a conical and laminated projection, named the pyramid, is first met with. In front of that is another smaller projection, called the uvula, which is placed between the two rounded lobes at the sides of the vallecula, named the amygdalm ; these terms having been suggested by a comparison with the parts so named in the throat. Between the uvula and amygdalae on each side, but concealed from view, is extended a ridge