THE PHARYNX. 820 to the sides of the tongue, to the hyoid bone, and stylo-hyoid ligament ; and, still lower down, to the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The pharynx is about four inches and a half in length, and is considerably •wider across than it is deep from before backwards. Its width above is moderate ; its widest part is opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone, and below this it rapidly contracts towards its termination, opposite the cricoid cartilage, where it is narrowest. Structure.—The muscles of the pharynx are the superior, middle and inferior constrictors, the stylo-pharyngeus, and the palato-pharyngeus. They are described at page 187. The mucous membrane lining the inner surface of the pharynx is con- tinuous at the several apertures with that of the adjacent cavities. It^ varies somewhat in its character in different parts. Its upper portion is Fig. 575. Fig. 575.—Antero-Posterior Vertical Section through the Head a little to the LEFT OF THE MiDDLE LiNE, SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF THE NaSAL AND BuCCAL Cavities, the Pharynx, Larynx, ko. a, nasal septum, and below it the section of the hard palate; h, the tongue ; c, soft palate ; d, the lips ; u, the uvula ; r, anterior pillar of the fauces ; i, posterior pillar; t, the tonsil placed between the pillars ; p, upper part of the pharynx ; A, body of the hyoid bone; h, thyroid cartilage ; n, cricoid cartilage ; f, on the upper vocal cords above the glottis ; s, epiglottis ; 1, posterior opening of the nares ; 3, behind the isthmus faucium ; 4, opposite the superior opening of the larynx : 5, passage into the oesophagus ; 6, opening of the right Eustachian tube. thick where it adheres to the periosteum of the basilar process, but is much thinner near the entrance of the Eustachian tube and the posterior nares : in this situation numerous glands are found collected in a layer beneath the mucous membrane. The glands are of two kinds, viz., racemose, which are especially numerous in the upper portion ; and simple or compound follicular, which exist throughout the whole of the pharynx. A chain of glands, forming a glandular mass, exactly similar to that of the tonsils, stretches across the