SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ARTERIES.- 1008 hands of different surgeons, and even in the hands of the same surgeon in different cases. * The principal facts bearing on the actual performance of an operation on the third part of the subclavian artery, will now be briefly recalled. The most prominent or convex part of the clavicle, the part of the bone opposite which the vessel lies, will serve as a guide for the middle of the first incision, which is to be made a little above the clavicle, and parallel with it. If (after noting with the eye, or marking on the surface the line at which it is desired to make the incision,) the integument be drawn downwards over the clavicle, the parts covering the bone may be divided with freedom. With the integument, the platysma and several nerves are divided in this incision, but no vessel is endangered, except in those rare cases in which the cephalic vein or the external jugular crosses over the clavicle [plate 25, figs. 4, 5]. It will, in most cases, be an advantage to add a short vertical incision, directed downwards to the middle of the horizontal one. Should the sterno-mastoid muscle be broad at its lower end, or should the interval between that muscle and the trapezius be insufl&cient for the farther steps of the operation, a portion of the former muscle, or even of both muscles, must be divided [plate 25, fig. 7]. The external jugular vein next presents itself with the veins joining it from the shoulder, and, as this vein is usually over the artery, it must be held aside, or it may be necessary to divide it. If divided, the lower end of the vessel requires the application of a ligature as well as the upper one, in consequence of the reflux of blood from the subclavian vein. The omo-hyoid muscle will be turned aside if necessary ; and now must be determined the exact position at which the artery is to be sought by division of the deeper fascia. If the clavicle has its usual horizontal direction, the first rib is the best guide to the vessel. The brachial nerves are here, it is to be remem- bered, close to the vessel,—so much so, that the ligature has in several cases been passed in the first instance round one of them instead of the artery. But if, in consequence of the disease rendering the operation neces- sary, the outer end of the clavicle is much raised, then it will, in many cases, be more easy to place the ligature on the artery above the insertion of the scalenus muscle, or even behind that muscle. Above the first rib, the situation of the vessel may be ascertained by means of the brachial nerves and the scalenus muscle ; and, before the membrane covering them is divided, the position of these structures may be ascertained by the difference they offer to the touch. The cord-like nerves and the smooth flat muscle may thus be readily distinguished. At the same time the influence of pressure at a particular point in controlling the pulsation in the aneurism, will in this, as in other operations on the arteries, assist the surgeon. * This statement will be illustrated by reference to two cases winch occurred at nearly the same time in the practice of the same surgeon. In March, 1819, M. Dupuytren tied the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism, and the result was in all respects favourable. —See "Legons orales," &c., t, iv.; and M. Marx in "Repert. general d'anatomic," &c. 1826. Two or three weeks afterwards the same surgeon, being engaged in performing an operation of the same kind, was compelled to discontinue it for a time in consequence of the sufferings of the patient, and an hour and forty-eight minutes elapsed before the operation was concluded. The patient died of hfemorrhage in four days ; and, on exami- nation after death, it was found that -the artery had been perforated with the aneurism needle. One of the large nerves and half the artery had been included in the ligature. This case is reported by Dr. Rutherford, R.N., who was present at the operation, in "Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal," vol. xvi. 1820.