Fig. 516. Fig. 617. 760 THE EAR. from the observations of Reich, the successive papers of M. and F. E. Schultze, and the corroborating observations of Kolliker, that the nerve fibres break up in the transparent layer into minute ramifications, which enter the epithehum and form between the epithelial cells spindle-shaped nucleated bodies with elongated extremities. There have also been ob- served long hair-like processes, jila acusticay projecting into the cavity, beyond the epithelial surface of the ridge of the ampuUse, and likewise in the sacs ; and the actual continuity of these hairs with the nerve terminations has been in one instance observed by F. E, Schultze. According to Lang the hairs are only the altered remains of a delicate cap of tissue on the surface of the epithelium.—(Kolliker's Gewebelehre, 4th ed., p. 694.) Fig. 616.—Left Cochlea op a Child some Weeks Old, opened (from Reichert). f The drawing was taken from a specimen which had been preserved in alcohol, and was afterwards dried : the section is made so as to show tlie lamina spii-alis, scalaa, and cochlear canal in each of the three coils : the membranous spiral lamina is preserved, but the appearances connected with the organ of Corti, &c., have been lost from drying, /r, fenestra rotunda with its membrane; st, scala tympani ; sv, scala vestibuli; Is, lamina spiralis; A, hamulus; cc, canalis cochleae; d, opening of the aqueductus cochleae. Fig, 517.—Vertical Section of the Cochlea of a F(etal Calf (from Kolliker). f In this specimen the external wall was ossified, but the modiolus and spiral lamina were still cartilaginous ; the section shows in each part of the cochlear tube the two scalae with the intermediate canalis cochlese and lamina spiralis ; the radiating lines in the modiolus indicate the passage of the auditory nerves towards the spiral lamina. Cochlea. — The memhranous cochlea has the form of a three-sided tube, the canalis membranacea, interposed between the scala vestibuli and the scala tympani. The peripheral wall of this canal is formed by part of the osseous cochlea, and on its other sides it is bounded by the basilar membrane and membrane of Reissner respectively, while at its inner angle is a structure named limbus laminse spiralis, and in its interior, resting on the basilar membrane, is the organ of Corti with the membrana tectoria covering it. Each of these parts requires description. The memhrana hasilaris, or lamina spiralis membranacea, is stretched across from the free margin (labium tympanicum) of the osseous lamina to the outer part of the spiral canal, lying in the same plane as the osseous lamina, and attached peripherally through the medium of a thick structure.