867 VESSELS, ISTERVES, AJTD DUCTS OF THE LIVER. extremity and anterior surface of the stomach, on which it moves freely. When the stomach is quite empty, the left part of this surface of the liver may overlap the cardiac end of that viscus. To the right of the longitu- dinal fissure the liver rests and moves freely upon the first part of the duo- denum, and upon the hepatic flexure of the colon, at the juuction of the ascendiug and transverse portions of that intestine. Farther back it is in contact with the fore part of the right kidney and supra-renal capsule. Vessels.—The two vessels by which the liver is supplied with blood are the hepatic artery and the vena portse. The hepatic artery (p. 408), a branch of the coeliac axis, is intermediate in size between the other two branches of that trunk, being larger than the coronary artery of the stomach, but not so large as the splenic artery. Its size is, therefore, small in comparison with the organ to which it is distributed. It enters the transverse fissure, and there divides into a right and left branch, for the two principal lobes of the liver. By far the greater parb of the blood which passes through the liver,—and in this respect it differs from all other organs of the body,—is conveyed to it by a large vein, the vena porta (p. 479). This vein is formed by the union of nearly all the veins of the chylopoietic viscera, viz., those from the stomach and intestines, the pancreas and spleen, the omentum and mesen- tery, and also those from the gall-bladder. It enters the porta, or trans- verse fissure, where, like the hepatic artery, it divides into two principal branches. The hepatic artery and portal vein, lying in company with the bile duct, ascend to the liver between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, above the foramen of Winslow, and thus reach the transverse fissure together. The relative position of the three structures is as follows :—The bile-duct is to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the large portal vein is behind the other two. They are accompanied by numerous lymphatic vessels and nerves. The branches of these three vessels accompany one another in their course through the liver nearly to their termination ; and in this course are surrounded for some distance by a common investment (Glisson's capsule), which is prolonged into the interior of the organ. The hepatic veins, which convey the blood away from the liver, pursue through its substance an entirely different course from the other vessels, and pass out at its posterior border, where, at the bottom of the fossa already described, they end by two or three principal branches, besides other smaller ones, in the vena cava inferior. The lymphatics of the liver, large and numerous, form a deep and a superficial set, already described (p. 493). Nerves. —The nerves of the liver are derived partly from the coeliac plexus, and partly from the pneumogastric nerves, especially from the left pneumo- gastric. They enter the liver supported by the hepatic artery and its branches ; along with which they may be traced a considerable way in the portal canals, but their ultimate distribution is not known. ExcKETORY Apparatus.—The excretory apparatus of the liver consists of the hepatic duct, the cystic duct, the gall-bladder, and the common bile- duct. The hepatic duct, formed by the union of a right and left branch, which issue from the bottom of the transverse fissure and unite at a very obtuse angle, descends to the right, within the gastro-hepatic omentum, in front of the vena portse, and having the hepatic artery to its left side. Its diameter is about two lines, and its length nearly two inches. At its lower end it 3 L 2