976 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The seminal granules are rounded colourless corpuscles, having a granular aspect. They average about- -^qq^^ of an inch in diameter, and may be allied to mucous corpuscles. Fi- 681. Fig. 681 A.—Spermatic Filaments from the Human Vas Deferens (from Kblliker). 1, magnified 350 diameters ; 2, magnified 800 diameters; a, from the side ; 6, from above. Fig. 681 B.—Spermatic Cells and Sperma- tozoa OF THE Bull undergoing development (from Kolliker). 1, spermatic cells with one or two nuclei, one of them clear ; 2, 3, free nuclei with spermatic filaments forming ; 4, the filaments elongated and the body widened ; 6, filaments nearly fully developed. Fig. 681 C.—Escape of the Spermatozoa from THEIR Cells in the same Animal. 1, spermatic cell containing the spermatozoon coiled up within it ; 2, the cells elongated by the partial uncoiling of the spermatic filament; 3, a cell from which the filament has in part become free ; 4, the same with the body also partially free; 5, spermatozoon from the epididymis with vestiges of the cell adherent ; 6, spei-matozoon from the vas deferens, showing the small enlarge- ment, 6, on the filament. The spermaiozoa are peculiar particles, which, during life and for some hours after being removed from the testicle, perform rapid vibratory or lashing movements. Each consists of a flattened oval part or so-called body, and of a long slender filiform tail. The body is about ggog^h of an inch in width, and the entire spermatozoon is from gigth to ^th of an inch in length. The body often contains a minute spot, and, at its junction with the narrow filament or tail, there is frequently a slight projecting fringe or collar. The spermatozoa are developed like nuclei in the interior of the spermatic cells, the cells subsequently beconung enlarged into transparent vesicular bodies of considerable size, in which one or several spermatozoa may be seen. Some- times a group of cells, each containing a single spermatozoon, is seen enclosed within a parent cell. The spermatozoa are not normally found free until they reach the rete testis. (Wagner and Leuckart, Article Semen " in Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.; Kolliker in Handbuch.)