958 MALE ORGANS OF GENEKATION. Fig. 673. Fig. 673.—One op the Tufts containing a Helicine Artery nerves. The muscular tissue is much more abundant in the penis of some animals than in man. The inter-tiabecular spaces form a labyrinth of intercommunicating venous areolae divided by the trabecular tissue. The spaces of the two sides communicate freely through the septum, especially in front. They return their blood partly by a series of branches which escape between the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum, and which, accompanied by veins from the latter, mount on the sides of the penis to the vena dorsalis, partly by short veins issuing at the upper surface, and imme- diately joining the dorsal vein, but principally by veins passing out near the root of the penis and joiniug the prostatic plexus and pudendal veins. According to Kobelt, there are also communications with the cutaneous veins on the abdomen. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are branches of the pudic artery. The proper cavernous arteries (profundte penis), right and left, supply them chiefly ; but the dorsal artery of the penis also sends twigs tlirough the fibrous sheath, along the upper surface, especially in the fore part of the penis. Within the cavernous tissue, the numerous branches of arteries are supported by the trabeculce, in the middle of which they run, and terminate in two modes ; some of them subdividing into branches of capillary minute- ness which open into the intertrabecular spaces ; while others form tendril- like twigs which project into the spaces, and end in curling dilated extre- mities—the helicine arteries of J. Miiller, sometimes singly and sometimes in tufts. The extremity of each curled dilatation would appear to be bound down by a small fibrous band, which according to Henle is usually solid, but is said by Kolliker to contain a capillary continuation of the blood- MOKE highly magnified (from J. Miiller). The tuft is represented as projecting into the cavity of a vein. vessel. The helicine arteries are most abundant in the posterior part of the corpora cavernosa, and are found in the corresponding part of the corpus spongiosum also ; but they have not been seen in the glans penis. They are most distinct in man, but are not constant in animals, so that, ■whatever may be their use, they do not appear to be essential to the process of erection. CORPUS SPONGIOSUM. The corpus spongiosum urethrce, commences in front of the triangular ligament of the perineum, between the diverging crura of the corpora cavernosa, and somewhat behind their point of junction, by an enlarged and rounded extremity named the bulb. It extends forwards as a cylindrical, or slightly tapering body, lodged in the groove on the under side of the united cavernous bodies, as far as their blunt anterior extremity, over which it expands so as to form the glans penis already described. The posterior bulbous extremity, or bulb of the urethra, varies in size in diflFerent subjects. It receives an investment from the triangular ligament in which it rests, and is embraced by the accelerator urince, or bulbo- cavernosus muscle. The posterior extremity of the bulb exhibits, more or