550 THE CEREBRUM. the cerebellum, are seen the pineal body, the corpora quadrigemina, the valve of Yieussens, and the processus a cerebello ad cerebrum. The third ventricle is a narrow longitudinal cleft placed between the optic thalami, which bound it on its two sides. It is covered above by the velum interpositum and the fornix. Beneath, its floor is formed by the following parts, which have been already described as seen on the base of the cerebrum, viz., commencing from behind, the posterior perforated space, the corpora albicantia, the tuber cinereura and infundibulum, and the lamina cinerea, the last of which also serves to close it in front, as high as the anterior commissure. Behind, is the anterior opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The cavity is crossed by three commissures, named from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The middle or soft commissure is composed almost entirely of grey matter, and connects the two thalami. It is variable in size, and some- times wanting ; it is frequently torn across in examining the brain. The anterior commissure is a round bundle of white fibres, placed imme- diately in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix, and crossing between the corpora striata. It marks the anterior boundary of the ventricle ; its fibres extend laterally through the corpora striata, a long way into the substance of the cerebral hemispheres. The posterior commissure, also white but of smaller size, is placed across the back part of the ventricle, immediately before and below the pineal body, with which and with the corpora quadrigemina it is intimately connected. The corpora striata, situated in front and to the outer side of the optic thalami, are two large ovoid masses of grey matter, the greater part of each of which is embedded in the middle of the white substance of the hemisphere of the brain, whilst a part comes to the surface in the body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. This intraventricular portion of the corpus striatum is of a pyriform shape, its larger end being turned forwards, and its narrow end being directed outwards and backwards, so that the optic thalami of the two sides are received between the diverging corpora striata. On cutting into it, there may be seen at some depth from the surface white fibres, which are prolonged from the corresponding cerebral peduncle, and give it the streaked appearance from which it has received its name. • The extraventricular portion of the corpora striata will be afterwards described. Along the inner border of each corpus striatum, and in a depression between it and the optic thalamus, is seen a narrow whitish semitrans- parent band, named tcEnia semicircularis, which continues backwards into the descending cornu of the ventricle, where its connections have not been determined with precision. In front it reaches the corresponding anterior pillar of the fornix, and descends in connection with that cord of white substance. It is more transparent and firm on the surface, especially at its fore part: and this superficial stratum has been named stria cornea. The teenia consists of longi- tudinal white fibres, the deepest of which running between the corpus striatum and the thalamus, were named by Vieussens centrum geminum semicirculare. Beneath it are one or two large veins, which receive those from the surface of the corpus striatum and end in the veins of the choroid plexuses. The thalami optici (posterior ganglia of the brain) are of an oval shape,