ALLANTOIS AND URINARY BLADDER. 995 The Allantois, Urinary Bladder, and Uraclius.—Tlie name of Allantois was originally given to a membranous sac wliich is appended to the umbilicus of various quadrupeds in the foetal state, and which communicates with the urinary bladder by means of a canal passing through the umbilical aperture, and named the urachus. 'J'hese several parts are formed out of one original saccular process, which passes out from the cloacal termination of the intestine, and which subsequently becomes distinguished into the bladder, the urachus, and the allantois strictly so called; but modern embryologists employ the term allantois also to signify the original common representative of the several parts referred to. In this sense, an allan- tois may be said to exist not only in mammalia, but also in birds and reptiles, subject, however, to great differences in its subsequent development and relative im- portance. Thus in Batrachians it never extends beyond the abdominal cavity ; in scaly reptiles, on the other hand, as well as in birds and in some quadrupeds, it ulti- mately surrounds the body of the foetus, and spreads itself over the inner surface of the chorion or outer covering of the ovum, whilst in other quadrupeds its extra- abdominal portion is of small extent. In man, the allantois proper is not only very insignificant in point of size, but also extremely limited in duration, for it vanishes at a very early period in the life of the embryo : and whilst in many animals it serves both as a receptacle for the secretion of the foetal urinary organs, and as a vehicle to conduct the umbilical vessels from the body of the embryo to the chorion to form the placenta (or some equivalent vascular structure), it seems in the human species to serve merely for the latter purpose. The allantoid process communicates below with the intestinal canal, and receives the wide excretory ducts of the Wolffian bodies, the ureters, and the Fallopian tubes or vasa deferentia. By Baer, Rathke, and others, the allantois has been regarded as formed from the intestinal tube, and by Reichert as developed upon the excretory ducts of the Wolffian bodies. BischofF states that, in the embryos of the rabbit and dog, it commences before the appearance of either the AVolffian bodies or the intestine, as a .solid mass projecting forwards from the posterior extremity of the body. This mass soon becomes hollowed into a vesicle, which is covered with blood-vessels, and communicates with the intestine. Continuing rapidly to enlarge, it protrudes between the visceral plates, and, when these close together, through the opening of the umbilicus, forming in the rabbit a pear-shaped sac, which conveys blood-vessels (soon recognised as the umbilical vessels) to the chorion, to form the foetal part of the placenta. In the human embryo, the allantois ceases, at a very early period, to be found beyond the umbilicus, and in the lower part of its extent, within the abdomen, it becomes widened to form the bladder, whilst the upper part, or urachus, becomes constricted, and is at length completely closed, and remains only in the form of a ligament, with minute traces of its original hollow structure already described along with the urinary bladder. The lower part of the allantois, or rudimentary bladder, receiving, as already men- tioned, the efferent canals of the Wolffian bodies, as well as those of the kidneys and of the ovaries or testes, at first communicates freely with the lower end of the intestinal tube, and when this becomes opened to the exterior, there is formed a sort of cloaca, as in adult birds and reptiles. Soon, however, a separation takes place, so as to produce for the genito-urinary organs a distinct passage to the exterior : this is named the sinus uro-genitalis^ and is situated in front of the termination of the intestine. DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The development of the parts concerned in the reproductive function docs not begin until after the rudiments of the principal organs of the body have appeared. The internal organs of generation first make their appearance, and for a brief period no sexual difference is perceptible in them. The external organs, which subsequently begin to be formed, are also identical in appearance in the two sexes, as late as the fourtcjotli week. Th/: Iidarao.l Organs of Omeraiion.—The Ovaries and Testes.—The rudiments of the ovaries or testes, for it cannot at first be determined which are ultimately to be produced, appear after the formation of the allantois and Wolffian bodies, but a little .sooner than the kidneys. They consist of two small whitish oval masses of blastema 3 T 2