MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE COCHLEA. 763 recently been generally misconceived. The history of the discovery and subsequent appreciation of the nature of the canalis membranacea is fully given by Reichert. (Abhandl. d. Konigl. Akad. d. Wissensch., Berlin, 1864.) Cochlear division of the auditory nerve.—The nerve of the cochlea is shorter, flatter, and broader than any of the other nerves of the internal ear, and perforates the bone by a number of foramina at the bottom of the internal meatus, below the opening of the Fallopian aqueduct. These foramina are arranged in a shallow spiral groove (tractus spiralis fora- minulentus) in the centre of the base of the cochlea ; and they lead into small bony canals, which follow first the direction of the axis of the cochlea, through the modiolus, and then radiate outwards, between the plates of the bony lamina spiralis. In the centre of the spiral groove is a larger foramen, which leads to the canalis centralis modioli. Through the central foramen and straight canal the filaments for the last half-turn of the lamina spiralis are conducted ; whilst the first two turns are supplied by filaments which occupy the smaller foramina and bent canals. In the bone the nerves have dark outlines, and near the edge of the spiral lamina they form a plexus which contains ganglion cells, and may be considered as a spiral ganglion contained in an osseous canal, canalis spiralis modioli^ already mentioned. From the outer side of this ganglion the fibres, still possessing the dark outline, pass onwards with a plexiform arrangement, and, emerging from the bone beneath the labium tympanicum of the limbus, are collected into bundles, which, opposite a line of perforations situated at the junction with the membrana basilaris and named habenula perforata, present the appearance of conical extremities entering those perforations. Beyond this they have not yet been traced with certainty, although it seems probable, as suggested by Kolliker, that the nerves are in continuity with spindle-shaped cells in the organ of Corti. Microscopic structure.'—The limbus lamincB spiralis is a thick structure continuous with the periosteum of the vestibular surface of the osseous lamina. Its free surface is thrown into a number of fungiform elevations narrower at the base than at their extremities. Towards the inner part of the limbus these elevations are short and vertical, but those which are placed further out are more and more oblique and longer, and the labium vestibulare is formed by the outermost of them, which are lengthened into rib-like processes with flat extremities placed edge to edge, overhanging the sulcus spiralis like teeth. In the spaces between the elevations numer- ous small bodies like nuclei are disposed. In the floor of the sulcus spiralis where the labium tympanicum is continued into the membrana basilaris a series of elevations (apparent teeth of Corti) are directed into the membrane, and between their outer extremities are the oblique perfora- tions occupied by the conical extremities of the nerve-bundles. This part is the habenula perforata of Kolliker : it is described by him along with the membrana basilaris, and by Henle along with the limbus. Henle considers the appearance of elevations as caused merely by the nerve-bundles grooving the under surface and leaving thicker structure between. The membrana basilaris is divisible into an inner and an outer zone. The inner zone (habenula tecta vel arcuata) is covered over by the rods of Corti; the outer zone (zona pectin ata) is attached peripherally to the walls of the canal through the medium of the cochlear ligament. The inner zone, together with the apparatus on its surface, continues, according to Henle, of a uniform breadth of about TrJ-o^h of an inch, both in the dif- ferent parts of the same cochlea, and likewise in diflerent animals : so that