DISSECTION OF TFIE HEAD AND NF/'K. 1054 tebral and internal mammary arteries, the thyroid axi^, from which arise the inferior thyroid giving off the ascending cervical artery, the supra- scapular artery, and most frequently the transverse cervical dividing into the superficial cervical and posterior scapular ; lastly, there are the deep cervical and superior intercostal arteries coming off either as a single trunk or separately (p. 3GG). The frequent origin of the posterior scapular artery from the third part of the subclavian artery and other varieties will here re- quire to be attended to (p. 372). The trunk of the sympathetic nerve is to be dissected, with its three cardiac and its other branches, as high as the first cervical nerve (p. 688) ; and the recurrent laryngeal branch of the vagus nerve is to be found between the gullet and trachea, and traced up to the larynx (p. G22). 5. Superficial Dissection of the Face.—In proceeding with this region, the dissectors ought to expose in concert the superficial muscles of the face on one side, keeping only the principal blood-vessels and nerves. They ought likewise to make a more detailed exposure and dissection of these vessels and nerves on the other side, for which purpose the superficial muscles must be in some measure sacrificed. If this method cannot be followed in concert, each dissector must display as much as possible all the parts on his own side, in which case he will do best to begin with the superficial muscles. To exhibit the superficial muscles of the face, the skin is to be reflected from the middle line, from which one or two such transverse incisions as shall seem necessary are to be directed outwards. It is most convenient to begin with the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, removing the skin from the circumference to the margin of the eyelids, and dividing it along these margins (p. 171). The muscles between the rye, nose and upper lip may then be exposed, the principal of which are these :—the compressor naris, the levator labii superioris aheque nasi, the levator proprius labii superioris, and the zygomatici, more deeply the corrugator supercilii, the levator anguli oris, the pyramidalis nasi continued from the frontalis, the dilatator naris, (fee. Below the mouth the depressor anguli oris and depressor labii inferioris will be seen. A more complete view of the orbicularis oris may be obtained by dissecting it from the inner aspect of the lips ; and the levator menti is best displayed by making au incision down to the bone in the middle line, and dissecting outwards. To expose the nerves and blood-vessels of the face, the skin may bo reflected as stated above from the middle lino outwards. The surface of the parotid gland is to be cleaned, and search made for the branches of the facial nerve as they emerge from underneath its upper and anterior margins (p. G14). The duct of the parotid gland, and the tiaasverse fiicial artery are also to be dissected (p. 354). The branches of the facial nerve are to be followed for- ward, and, as far as possible, their cpnnectious with the infraorbital, buccal and inferior labial branches of the fifth nerve are to be traced. Let the dissector cut the superior attachment of the levator proprius labii supe- rioris muscle, and dissecting down upon the infraorbital foramen, follow out the distribution of the infraorbital nerve and artery emerging from it (pp. 602 and 357). Let him also cut carefully down upon the mental foramen, and follow out the inferior labial nerve and artery emerging thence (p. 608). The facial artery and vein with their branches are to be dissected out from the point to which they have been previously traced at the border of the jaw. The principal branches of the artery, such as the inferior labial,