THE CEREBRUM. 556 peduncular fibres, which pass up from the medulla oblongata to the hemispheres, and constitute the peduncles of the cerebrum. These fibres increase in number as they ascend through the pons, and still further in passing through the optic thalami and striated bodies, beyond which they spread in all directions into the hemi- spheres. 2. Transverse or commissural fibres, which connect the two hemispheres together. 3, Longitudinal or collateral fibres, which, keeping on the same side of the middle line, connect more or less distant parts of the same hemisphere. 1. In each hemisphere the peduncular fibres consist of a main body and of certain accessory bundles of fibres. The main body is derived from the anterior pyramid, from the fasciculi teretes, and from the posterior pyramid. After it has passed through the pons, and be- come increased in amount, it is separated into two parts in the crus cerebri by a layer of dark cineritious matter, named locus niger. The lower or superficial part, which is derived from the pyramid, consists almost entirely of white fibres, col- lected into coarse fasciculi, and is named the crust or basis, or the fasciculated por- tion of the peduncle (Foville). The upper part, composed principally of the fasci- culus teres and posterior pyramid, is named the tegmentum. It is softer and finer in texture, and is mixed with much grey matter. Still increasing in number within the peduncle, these two sets of fibres ascend to the thalamus and corpus striatum, A much larger number of fibres diverging Fig. 379.—Posterior View OP THE PedTTNOLBS OP THE Cerebrum and Cerebel- lum (after Arnold). 4 The lower and fore part of the cerebral hemispheres is preserved, the cerebellum is completely detached from its peduncles, and on the right side the corpora quadrigemina and thalamus opticus have been dissected, a, fasciculus teres of the left side ; h, fibres of the tegmentum ascending through the right thalamus; c, left corpora quadrigemina ; d, lateral column of the cord ; e, restiform body; /, superior peduncles of the cerebellum ; g, fibres of the crust ; i, i, the fillets; Jc, Jc, corpora striata ; ^, the left thalamus ; m, m, sections of the middle peduncles of the cerebellum ; n, section of the left inferior peduncle ; p, left posterior pyramid; q, section of the corpus callosum ; s, under surface of the same, and below it the cavity of the fifth ventricle ; t, left anterior pillar of the fornix ; y, decussation of the radiating fibres with the crossing fibres of the corpus callosum. from these bodies appear to pass to the medullary substance of the hemispheres ; but the actual continuity of the individual fibres spreading out in the hemisphere with those ascending to the thalamus and corpus striatum is doubted by many authors, and among them, by Kolliker. The assemblage of radiating fibres in each hemisphere might be compared to a fan, bent into the form of an incomplete hollow cone, having its concave surface turned downwards and outwards; hence the name corona radiata applied to them by Reil, and fibrous cone by Mayo. Fig. 379.