SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINJ^UM. 1046 of the accelerator urinoe, and the transversus perinsei with the transverse artery. Then the deep perineal fascia with the muscular fibres between its layers, the membranous part of the urethra, the prostatic part of the canal, and, to a small extent, the prostate itself are successively incised. The Blood-vessels : their relation to the incisions.—The transverse artery of the perinseum with, it may be, the superficial artery of the perinseum, is the only artery necessarily cut through when the vessels have their accustomed arrangement ; for in such circumstances the artery of the bulb is not endan- gered if the knife be passed into the staflf in a direction obliquely upwards, the artery being anterior to the groove of that instrument ; neither is there a risk of wounding the pudic artery, unless the incisions through the deep parts (the prostate for instance) should be carried too far outwards.* But in some cases the arteries undergo certain deviations from their accustomed arrangement, whereby they are rendered liable to be wounded in the operation. Thus, the artery of the bulb when it arises, as occasionally happens, from the pudic near the tuber ischii, crosses the line of incision made in the operation, f The arterial branches ramifying on the prostate are in some instances enlarged, and become a source of h8emorrhage,J and the veins, too, on the surface of that gland, when augmented in size, may give rise to troublesome bleeding. § Lastly, it should be added that the occa- sional artery (accessory pudic), which takes the place of the pudic when defective, inasmuch as it lies on the posterior edge of the prostate, might be divided if the gland were cut through to its base, and only in this event II * For reference to some cases in w-bicli the pudic artery was divided in lithotomy, see Crosse's " Treatise on Urinary Calculus," p. 21. London, 1835. + "The Anatomy of the Arteries," &c., by R. Quain, p. 442, and plate 64f, figs. 1 and 2. A case in which death resulted from division of the artery of the bulb is recorded by Dr. Kerr, in the "Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal," July, 1847, p. 155. t See an essay, entitled "Remarlison the Sources of Haemorrhage after Lithotomy," by James Spence, in the "Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science," vol. i, p. 166; 1841. And "The Arteries," &c., by R. Quain, p. 445. § "The Arteries," &c., by R. Quain, p. 446, and plate 65, fig 3. II Ibid. p. 444, and plate 63. An instance in which fatal consequences resulted from the division of such an artery has been placed on record. See "Case of Lithotomy attended with Hsemorrhage," by J. Shaw, in "The London Medical and Physical Journal," vol. Iv. p. 3, with a figure. 1826.