583 ORIGIN" OF THE CRAT^IAL NERVES. CONNECTIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES WITH THE ENCEPHALON. The roots of the cranial nerves may be traced for some depth into the substance of the encephalon, a circumstance which has led to the distinction of the deep or real origin, and the superficial or apparent origin, by which latter is understood the place at which the nerve appears to be attached to the surface of the encephalon. The superficial origin of these nerves is quite obvious, but their deeper connection is, in most cases, still a matter of some uncertainty. Fig. 397—View from BELOW OF THE CONNEC- TION OF THE Principal Nerves with the Brain. The fall description of this figure will be found at p. 538. The following references apply to the roots of the nerves : V, the right olfactory tract divided near its middle ; II, the left optic nerve springing from the com- missure which is con- cealed by the pituitary body ; IV, the right optic tract; the left tract is seen passing back into i and e, the internal and external corpora genicu- lata ; III, the left oculo- motor ner^e ; IV, the trochlear; V, V, the large roots of the tri- facial nerves ; + + , the lesser roots, the + of the right side is placed on the Gasserian ganglion ; 1, the opthalmic ; 2, the superior maxillary, and 3, the inferior maxillary nerves ; VI, the left ab- ducent nerve ; VII, a, b, the facial and auditory nerves; a, VIII, b, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneu- mo-gastric, and spinal ac- cessory nerves ; IX, the right hypoglossal nerve ; at 0, on the left side, the rootlets are seen cut short ; CI, the left sub- occipital or first cervical nerve. Fig. 397. cL ca 1. The first or olfactory nerve, as it is usually described, small in man in comparison with animals, lies on the under surface of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum to the outer side of the longitudinal median fissure, lodged in a sulcus between two straight convolutions. Unlike other nerves, it consists of a large proportion of grey matter mixed with white fibres, and indeed