ORIGIN AND COURSE OF THE-TUBES. 935 have already heen noticed in its application to the liver. For the kiduey Chrzonszczewsky made use of the carminate of ammonia, which is freely eliminated with the urine. In order to obtain a full colouring of the bloodvessels, first the renal veins, and afterwards the arteries, are tied soon after a certain portion of the coloured fluid has been iutroduced into the jugular vein of the living animal. To obtain a coloured injection of the uriuiferous tubes, the animal is allowed to live for about an hour after the introduction of the carmine liquid, and then the ureters are tied, while the renal bloodvessels are carefully washed out with a weak solution of common salt ; and to preserve the specimens from after infiltra- tion of the colour, they are immersed in absolute alcohol acidulated with glacial acetic acid. Fig. 656. Fig. 657. Fig. 656.—Transvkrse Section of tiik Medullary Substance of the Pig's Kidney (from Clirzonszczewsky). 2QQ The drawing represents a small portion of the kidney of an animal into which colouring matter had been infused during life so as to fill the bloodvessels, by which means the distinction between them and the uriniferous tubes both larger and smaller is established, as well as by the different character of the lining epithelium; the section is made near the papilla; tb, the larger uriuiferous tubes or tubes of Bellini; tf, the smaller uriniferous tubes or looped tubes of Henle, named by Chrzonszczewsky tubes of Ferrein ; vk, the vasa recta or larger bloodvessels ; c, the small vessels and capillaries; s, the stroma. Fig. 657.—Larger and Smaller Uriniferous Tubes from the Medullary Substance of the Pig's Kidney (from. Chrzonszczewsky). 1, 1, two of the larger tubes, connected by a transverse tube at 2, and presenting a looped arrangement at 3 ; from this place two smaller uriniferous tubes, 4, 4, are seen taking their origin, as well as at the other places, 5, 5. Bloodvessels.—The kidneys are highly vascular, and receive their blood from the right and left renal arteries (p. 414), which are very large in pro- portion to the size of the organs they supply. Each renal arfcery divides into four or five branches, which, passing in at the hilus, between the vein