FIBROUS STRUCTURE. —FOVILLE'S VIEWS. 559 they then turn inwards, and, joining with those of the opposite side, form the trans- verse fibres of the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum is therefore regarded as a commissure of the cerebral peduncles only—none of its cross fibres spreading into the convolutions, as is generally believed. h. The second set of fibres of the tegmentum, corresponding with the fasciculi teretes and part of the posterior pyramids, run forwards near the middle line, along the under side of the third ventricle and corpus striatum, through the grey matter in front of the pons, to the anterior perforated space. The remaining part of the posterior pyramid forms the tsenia semicircularis, which, passing down in front of the anterior pillar of the fornix, also reaches the perforated space. From this space more fibres are reflected upwards on the sides of the corpus striatum to join the corpus callosum. 3. As dependencies of the posterior peduncular fibres, and connected with them at the borders of the anterior perforated space, are :— a. Several sets of longitudinal arched fibres, which embrace, in a series of rings, the radiating peduncular system. These are—the deep fibres of the tsenia semicircu- laris—a somewhat similar band beneath the outer part of the corpus striatum—the half of the fornix with the corpus fimbriatum—the longitudinal fibres placed on the upper and under surface of the corpus callosum, and those of the septum lucidum; and, lastly, two remarkable systems of longitudinal fibres—one constituting the entire white substance of the gyrus fornicatus (from end to end), also of its accessory convolutions, and of the inner half of the marginal convolution of the longitudinal fissure ; and the other, forming the white substance of the convolutions of the island of Reil, and the adjoining half of the convolution of the Sylvian fissure. None of the parts just named receive fibres from the radiating peduncular set. h. In connection with this system is a thin stratum of white fibres, found upon the internal surface of the ventricles, and prolonged through the transverse fissure into the reticulated white substance covering the lower end of the gyrus fornicatus ; whence, according to Foville, it extends, as an exceedingly thin layer of medullary matter, all over the cortical substance of the hemisphere. c. The anterior commissure does not reach the convolutions, but radiates upon the outer sides of the corpora striata and thalami. II. The grey matter on the convoluted surface of the cerebrum is divided into two and in some regions into three strata, by interposed thin layers of white substance. In examining it from without inwards, we meet with—1. A thin coating of white matter situated on the surface, which on a section appears as a faint white line, bounding the grey substance externally. This superficial white layer is not equally Fig. 382.—Section op THE Cortical Sub- stance OF A Cerebral Convolution (from Remak). In A, the parts are nearly of the natural size. To the right of the figure, a and e are two white, and 6 and / two grey strata ; to the left of the figure, an addi- tional white layer, c, di- vides the first grey into two, 6 and d. In B, a small part of the cortical substance of a convolution is represented, magnified to show more clearly the relative position of the strata Fig. 382. superficial white layer ; &, reddish grey layer ; c, intermediate white layer; d, inner part of the outer grey layer ; c, thin white layer ; /, inner grey layer ; g, radiating white fibres from the medullary substance of the convolu- tion passing into the layers of the cortical substance.