610 THE CRANIAL NERVES. of the submaxillary gland. Others from the fore part of the ganglion, longer and larger than the preceding, end in the mucous membrane of the mouth, and in Wharton's duct. According to Meckel (" De quinto pare," &c.), a branch occasionally descends in front of the hyo-g-lossus muscle, and after joining with one from the hypoglossal nerve, ends in the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. It may be noticed that while the branches from the otic ganglion pass exclusively to muscles, the submaxillary ganglion gives no muscular oflFsets. Summary.—Cutaneous filaments of the inferior maxillary nerve ramify on the side of the head, and the external ear, in the auditory passage, the lower lip, and the lower part of the face ; sensory branches are supplied by it to the greater part of the tongue ; and branches are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth, the lower teeth and gums, the salivary glands, and the articulation of the lower jaw. This nerve supplies the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, tem- poral, and two pterygoid ; also the buccinator, the mylo-hyoid, and the anterior belly of the digastric ; and from the otic ganglion proceed the branches to the circumflexus palati and tensor tympani muscles. SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES. The sixth cranial nerve (nerv. abducens) enters the dura mater behind the dorsum sellse, and passing forwards in the floor of the cavernous sinus, close to the outer side of the carotid artery, enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and is entirely distributed to that muscle, piercing it on the ocular surface. In entering the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle, it is beneath the other nerves, but above the ophthalmic vein. While passing along the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus, it is joined by several filaments of the sympathetic from the carotid plexus. According to Bock, it is joined in the orbit by a filament from Meckel's ganglion.— (" Beschreibung des Ftinften Nervenpaares." 1817.) SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. In the seventh cranial nerve of Willis are comprised two nerves having a distinct origin, distribution, and function. One of these, the facial, is the motor nerve of the face ; the other, the auditory, is the special nerve of the organ of hearing. Both enter the internal auditory meatus in the tem- poral bone, but they are soon separated from each other. FACIAL NERVE. The facial nerve, or portio dura of the seventh pair, is inclined outwards with the auditory nerve, from its place of origin, to the internal auditory meatus. The facial lies in a groove on the auditory nerve, and the two are united in the auditory meatus by one or two small filaments. At the bot- tom of the meatus the facial nerve enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, and follows the windings of that canal to the lower surface of the skull. The nerve passes through the temporal bone at first almost horizontally outwards, between the cochlea and vestibule; on reaching the inner wall of the tym-