FORM OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 953 or by two grooves, which meet in front, and correspond with the course of the seminal ducts, as well as mark the limits of the lateral lobes in this situation : it is in close apposition with the rectum, immediately in front of the bend from the middle to the lower or anal part of that viscus, where the surface and posterior border of the gland can be felt by the finger introduced into the intestine. The sides are convex and prominent, and are covered by the anterior portions of the levatores ani muscles, which pass back on either side, from the symphysis pubis and anterior ligament of the bladder, and embrace the sides of the prostate. This part of each levator ani is occasionally separated from the rest of the muscle by areolar tissue, ani has been named leva^r prostatce. The base of the gland is of considerable thickness, and is notched in the middle : its apex is turned towards the triangular ligament. As already stated, the prostate encloses the commencement of the urethra. The canal runs nearer to the upper than to the under surface of the gland, so that in general it is about three lines distant from the former and four or five from the latter ; but it frequently varies greatly in this respect. The prostatic portion of the urethra is about an inch and a quarter long, and is dilated in the middle ; it contains the verumontanum and the openings of the seminal and prostatic ducts, and will be afterwards more particularly described. The common seminal ducts, which pass forwards from the vesiculse seminales, also traverse the lower part of the prostate, enclosed in a special canal, and open into the urethra. Fig. 669, Fig. 669.—Longitudinal Median Section of the lower part of the Bladder AND Prostate Gland (after E. H. Weber). Vy inner surface of the urinary bladder ; u r, opening of the right ureter, from which a slight elevation runs down to the neck of the bladder ; p, upper part of the prostate j y, the so-called middle lobe ; p", the right lateral lobe ; u, the utricle or sinus pocularis ; d, the right ejaculatory duct; vd, vas deferens ; v s, vesicula seminalis. This gland is usually described as consisting of three lobes, two of whichj placed laterally and separated behind by the posterior notch, are of equal