THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 860 Fig. 602. A. Fig. 602, A.—Diagrammatic Section showing the Eelation in a Mammal and in Man between the Primitive Alimentary Canal and the Membranes op the Ovum. The stage represented in this diagram corresponds to that of the fifteenth or seven- teenth day in the human embryo, previous to the expansion of the allantois : c, the villous chorion ; a, the amnion ; a', the place of convergence of the amnion and reflection of the false amnion a" a", or outer or corneous layer ; e, the head and trunk of the embryo, comprising the primitive vertebrjB and cerebro-spinal axis ; i, i, the simple alimentary canal in its upper and lower portions ; v, the yolk-sac or umbilical vesicle ; V i, the vitello-intestinal opening ; u, the allantois connected by a pedicle with the anal portion of the alimentary canal. Fig. 602, B.—Transverse Section of the Body of an Embryo, with a Part of the adjacent Membranes, showing the Relation of the Alimentary Cavity to the Layers of the Germinal Membrane (from Remak and Kolliker). 15 1, chorda dorsalis ; 2, 3, spinal marrow ; 4, cnticular layer, and within it the prim- ordial vertebral segments ; 5, the ventral or visceral plates, consisting of the cuticular layer and the outer lamina of the middle germinal layer, passing at 4 x 5 from the umbilicus into the amnion ; 5', within the embryo, is placed in the peritoneal cavity, below one of the Wolffian bodies and close to the musculo-intestinal lamina ; 6, cavity of the intestine lined by the epithelial or epithelio-glandular layer, which, along with the musculo-intestinal, is continued by the ductus vitello-intestinalis into the yolk-sac, 5' 6. mesentery. Soon, however, the intestine, growing in length, advances from the spine, and forms a simple loop in the middle of the body, with a straight portion at its upper and lower end, and at the same time becomes slightly dilated in the part destined to form the stomach. The middle of the loop is connected with the umbilical vesicle by the pedicle, and also by the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. The upper extremity of the primitive alimentary tube reaches to the base of the skull and forms the oesophagus and pharynx; but the mouth is developed by depression of the outer surface of the embryo, above the first branchial arch, and together with the tongue is at first sepa- rated from the throat by a partition, which soon gives way. In like manner, the anal orifice does not exist at first, but is formed by invagination of the outer surface, and the opening of a communication between it and the intestine.