THE LIVER. 868 meets with the cystic duct, descending from the gall-bladder ; and the two ducts uniting together at an acute angle, form the common bile-duct. The gall-hladder is a receptacle or reservoir for such bile as is not imme- diately required in digestion. It is a pear-shaped membranous sac, three or four inches long, about an inch and a half across at its widest part, and capable of containing from eight to twelve fluid-drachms. It is lodged obliquely in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, with its large end ov fundus, which projects beyond the anterior border of the gland, directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, whilst its neck is inclined in the opposite direction. The upper surface of the gall-bladder is attached to the liver by areolar tissue and vessels, along the fossa formed between the quadrate lobe and the remainder of the right lobe. Its under surface is free and covered by the peritoneum, which is here reflected from the liver, so as to include and support the gall-bladder. Sometimes, however, the peritoneum com- pletely surrounds the gall-bladder, which is then suspended by a kind of mesentery at a little distance from the under surface of the liver. The fundus of the gall-bladder, which is free, projecting, and always covered with peritoneum, touches the abdominal parietes immediately beneath the margin of the thorax, opposite the tip of the tenth costal cartilage. Below, it rests on the commencement of the transverse colon ; and, farther back, it is in contact with the duodenum, and sometimes with the pyloric ex- tremity of the stomach. The neck of the gall-bladder, gradually narrowing, forms two curves upon itself like the letter S, and then, becoming much con- stricted, and changing its general direction altogether, it bends downwards and terminates in the cystic duct. The gall-bladder is supplied with blood by the cystic branch of the right division of the hepatic artery, along which vessel it also receives nerves from the coeliac plexus. The cystic veins empty themselves into the vena portps. Beale states that two large veins always accompany one artery. The cystic duct is about an inch and a half in length. It runs downwards and to the left, thus forming an angle with the direction of the gall-bladder, and unites with the hepatic duct to form the common duct. The common bile duct, ductus communis choledochus, the largest of the ducts, being from two to three lines in width, and nearly three inches in length, conveys the bile both from the liver and the gall-bladder into the duodenum. It continues downwards and backwards in the course of the hepatic duct, between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, in front of the vena p6rt8e, and to the right of the hepatic artery. Having reached the descending portion of the duodenum, it continues downwards on the inner and posterior aspect of that part of the intestine, covered by or in- cluded in the head of the pancreas, and, for a short distance, in contact with the right side of the pancreatic duct. Together with that duct, it then perforates the muscular wall of the intestine, and after running obliquely for three quarters of an inch between its several coats, and forming an elevation beneath the mucous membrane, it becomes somewhat constricted, and opens by a common orifice with the pancreatic duct on the inner surface of the duodenum, at the junction of the second and third portions of that intestine, and three or four inches below the pylorus. Varieties.—The liver is not subject to great or frequent deviation from its ordinary form and relations. Sometimes it retains the thick rounded form which it presents in the foetus; and it has occasionally been found without any division into lobes. On the contrary, Soemmerring has recorded a case in which the adult liver was