ORGANS OF EESriRATIOIT. 892 ticularly strong and nimierous opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. The elastic longitudinal fibres serve to restore the windpipe to its ordinary size after it has been stretched in the direction of its length. The glands.—The trachea is provided with very numerous mucous glands, the constant secretion from which serves to lubricate its internal surface. The largest of these glands are small roundish lenticular bodies, situated at the back part of the tube, lying close upon the outer surface of the fibrous layer, or occupying little recesses formed between its meshes : these are compound glands ; their excretory ducts pass forwards between the muscular fibres and open on the mucous membrane, where multitudes of minute orifices are perceptible. Other similar but smaller glands are found upon and within the fibrous membrane between the cartilaginous rings. Lastly, there appear to be still smaller glands lying close beneath the mucous coat. The mvcous membrane.—This is smooth and of a pale pinkish white colour in health, though when congested or inflamed, it becomes in- tensely purple or crimson. It is covered with a ciliated columnar epithelium, the vibratile movements of which, as may be best seen at the back of the trachea of an animal, tend to drive the mucous secretion upwards towards the larynx. The epithelium is stratified, oval nucleated cells being disposed several rows deep, beneath the columnar cells which bear the cilia. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the trachea are principally derived from the inferior thyroid. The larger branches run for some distance longi- tudinally, and then form a superficial plexus with rounded meshes. The veins enter the adjacent plexuses of the thyroid veins. The nerves come from the trunk and recurrent branches of the pneumo-gastric, and from the sympathetic system. ^ Structure of the Bronchi. The general structure of the bronchi corresponds with that of the trachea in every particular. Their cartilaginous rings, which resemble those of the trachea in being imperfect behind, are, however, shorter and narrower. The number of rings in the right bronchus, varies from six to eight, whilst in the left the number is from nine to twelve. The bronchi are supplied by the bronchial arteries and veins, and the nerves are from the same source as those of the trachea. THE LUNGS AND PLEUE,^. The lungs, placed one on the right and the other on the left of the heart and large vessels, occupy by far the larger part of the cavity of the chest, and during life are always in accurate contact with the internal surface of its wall. Each lung is attached at a comparatively small part of its inner or median surface by a part named the root, and by a thin membranous fold which is continued downwards from it. In other directions the lung is free and its surface is closely covered by a serous membrane, belonging to itself and to the corresponding side of the thorax, and named accordingly, the right or left pleura. THE PLEUH^. The pleurcB are two independent serous membranes forming two shut sacs, quite distinct from each other, which line the right and left sides of the thoracic cavity, form by their approximation in the middle line the medias-