862 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. quently tlie first part of the large intestine, together with the meso-colon, crosses over the upper part of the small intestine, at the junction of the duodenum and jejunum. The caecum and transverse colon are then found just below the liver; finally, the csecum descends to the right iliac fossa, and at the fourth or fifth month the parts are in the same position as in the adult. At first, villous processes or folds of various lengths are formed throughout the whole canal. After a time these disappear in the stomach and large intestine, but i-emain persistent in the inter- mediate portions of the tube. According to JSIeckel, the villous processes are formed from larger folds, which become serrated at the edge and divided into separate villi. The mode of development of the alimentary canal accounts, in some measure, for the principal complication in the folds of the peritoneum. The stomach being origi- nally straight in form and mesial in position, the small omentum and gastro-phrenic ligament must be regarded as an originally mesial fold with the free edge directed forwards, which afterwards forms the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Thus the anterior wall of the sac of the omentum, as far as the great curvature of the stomach, may be considered as formed by the right side of a mesial fold, while the peritoneum in front of the stomach belongs to the left side of the same, and a sac of the omentum is a natural consequence of the version and disproportionate growth of the tube between the duodenum and the cardiac orifice of the stomach. It is obvious that the view of the omental sac, according to which its posterior layers are held to return to the duodenum and posterior wall of the body before proceeding to form the transverse meso-colon (p. 829) is more consistent with the phenomena of deve- lopment now described, than that which would make them directly enclose the colon. On the other hand, the further elongation of the omental sac and the whole disposition of the peritoneum, with respect to the colon, must be regarded as having taken place after the assumption by the great intestine of its permanent position. Fig. 603*. Fig. 603*.—Sketch op the Human Embryo op the Eighth or Ninth Week, showing the Coil op Intestine IN the Umbilical Cord. The amnion and villous chorion have been opened and the embryo drawn aside from them ; v, the umbilical vesicle or yolk-sac placed between the amnion and chorion, and connected with the coil of intestine, i', by a small or almost linear tube; the figure at the side repre- sents the first part of the umbilical cord magnified ; i, coil of intestine ; v i, vitello- intestinal duct, alongside of which are seen omphalo-mesenterie blood-vessels. The occurrence of umbilical hernia in its various degrees may be referred to the persistence of one or other of the foetal conditions in which a greater or less portion of the intestinal canal is contained in the umbilical cord; and it has been shown that the most common diverticulum of the small intestine is connected with the original opening of the ductus vitello-intes- tinalis into the ileum (p. 841). THE LIYEPv. The liver is an important glandular organ, very constant in the animal series, being found in all vertebrate, and, in a more or less developed con- dition, in most invertebrate tribes. It elaborates and secretes the bile, and otherwise acts, in a manner as yet imperfectly understood, as an elaborator and purifier of the blood. In the exercise of this latter function, there is formed in its texture an amyloid substance, very easily converted into sugar. The liver is the largest gland in the body, and by far the most bulky of the abdominal viscera. It measures about ten or twelve inches transversely