STRUCTURE OF THE THYMUS GLAND. 925 He is of opinion that the central cavity described and figured by Cooper is preternaturally enlarged, owing to over-distension ; but that, neverthless, all the parts of each lateral mass of the thymus are connected with a single Fig. 648. Fig. 648.—Transverse Section of a Lobulk OF AN InjectKD Infantile Thymus Gland (from Kolliker). ^ a, capsule of comiective tissue surrounding tlie lobule; b, membrane of the glandular vesicles ; c, cavity of the lobule, from which the lai-ger bloodvessels are seen to extend to- wards and ramify in the spheroidal masses of the lobule. common cavity. (Astley Cooper, Ana- tomy of the Thymus Gland, Lond., 1832 ; Simon, Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland, Lond., 1845 ; His, on the Lymphatics of the Thymus, in Zeitsch. f. wissensch. Zoologie, X. and XI.; Kolliker and Henle in their respec- tive Handbooks.) Vessels.—The arteries of the thymus are derived from various sources, viz., from the internal mammary arteries, the inferior and superior thyroid, the subclavian and carotid arteries. They terminate in capillary vessels, which form a vascular envelope around and within each vesicle. The veins pursue a different course from the arteries, and, for the most part, open into the left innominate vein. The lymphatics are large. According to the observations of His on the calf, the larger blood-vessels passing to the central canal are each accompanied by two or more lymphatic stems. He finds that these arise from an interlobular plexus of lymphatic spaces destitute of walls, and that this plexus receives its roots from the interior of the lobules; and he advances the opinion that they communicate directly with the central spaces of the lobules; he has not, however, actually observed such a connection. The nerves are very minute. Haller thought they were partly derived from the phrenic nerves, but according to Coopei", no filaments from these nerves go into the gland, though they reach the investing capsule, as does also a branch from the descendens noni. Small filaments, derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, descend on the thyroid body, to the upper part of the thymus. Sympathetic nerves also reach the gland along its various arteries. Development.—The early development of the thymus has been carefully studied by Simon, whose researches were chiefly conducted in the embryos of swine and oxen. In embryos about half an inch in length, it may be seen with the aid of a high magnifying power; and in those of one and a half inch, with the aid of a simple lens. When first distinguishable, it consists of a simple tube closed in all directions, lying along the carotid vessels. The contents of this tube are granular, but do not show regular corpuscles; its Avails are delicate and homogeneous. The tube has no con- nection with the respiratory mucous membrane, as was supposed by Arnold ; and so soon as it is discoverable, it is found to be perfectly distinct from the thyroid body. At intervals along the sides of this tube small vesicles bud out, so as to form lateral diverticula, which contain nucleated corpuscles, and which go on subsequently branching out in groups of two or four,—the formation of the permanent vesicles being merely the last repetition of this process. In the human foetus at the seventh week, Kolliker has seen the thymus lobate at its lower end, and single above; at about the ninth week the thymus consists of two minute elongated parallel parts,