850 THE INTESTmE. run immediately beneath the serous tunic; many pierce the muscular coat, sup- plying it with vessels as they pass, and having entered the submucous areolar Fig. 596. Fig. 596.—Enlarged View OF ONE OP BrUNNEr's Glands from the human Duodenum (from Frey). The main duct is seen superiorly; its branches are elsewhere hidden by the bunches of opaque glandular vesicles. layer, ramify in it, so as to form a close network, from which still smaller vessels pass on into the mucous coat, and terminate in the capillary network of the folds, villi, and glands of that membrane, which is the most vascular of all the intestinal tissues. The fine capillaries of the mus- cular coat are arranged in two layers of oblong meshes, which accompany and cor- respond in direction with the longitudinal and circular muscular fibres. The veins accompany the arteries. The absorbents of the intestine may be conveniently distinguished as those of the mucous membrane and those of the muscular walls. Those of the mucous mem- brane form a copious plexus which pervades both the mucous and submucous layers, the largest vessels being those which are in the latter layer; but there is not, in the human subject at least, the same distinct division into two strata which has been found in the stomach (Teichmann). With regard to the absorbents of the muscular walls, it has been stated in a former part of this work (p. 491) that according to the concurrent accounts of the various investigators of this subject, the absorbents of the intestine are in two strata, viz. those of the submucous layer already mentioned, and a subserous set, following principally a longitudinal direction beneath the peri- toneum, and having only an interrupted communication with the other through intervening trunks; but more recently, a paper by Auerbach has appeared, in which it is stated as the result of transparent injections, that the only truly subperitoneal plexus which exists is confined to a strip in the immediate neighbourhood of the mesentery; that the longitudinal plexus seen by previous observers is really situated between the circular and longitudinal muscular coats; and that besides this, there are likewise copious and close minute capillary plexuses, threading the whole thick- ness of the muscular walls, in complete continuity with the mucous absorbents, and throwing their contents into those larger vessels the position of which had been mis- understood. To the whole of this series of absorbents Auerbach gives the name of " interlaminar plexus." (Yirchow's Archiv., vol. xxxiii., p. 340.) The nerves of the small intestine are chiefly derived from the superior mesenteric plexus (see p. 702). This plexus is formed superiorly by nervous branches, of which those in the middle come from the coeliac plexus, and the lateral ones proceed directly from the semilunar ganglion. The plexus and plexiform branches into which it divides cling at first very closely to the larger divisions of the superior mesenteric artery, especially on their anterior surface, and, dividing similarly with the ramifi- cations of the arteries, the branches of the nerves, retaining still a wide plexiform arrangement, pass onwards to the different parts of the intestine between the two folds of the mesentery, and finally, separating somewhat from the blood-vessels, reach the intestine in very numerous branches. In regard to the nervous distribution in the coats of the intestine, two recent dis- coveries of considerable interest have been made. One of them, for which we are indebted to Auerbach, consists in the observation of a peculiar nervous plexus^ rich