558 THE CEEEBRUM. they bend downwai'ds within the gyrus to which they belong, and are connected with the anterior perforated space, being joined by certain longitudinal fibres which run along the under surface of the corpus callosum near the middle line, passing near and upon the upper edge of the septum lucidura. Behind, they turn round the back of the corpus callosum and thence descend to the point of the middle lobe, where, according to Foville, they again reach the perforated space. Offsets from these fibres pass upwards and backwards into the secondary convolutions derived from the gyrus fornicatus in the longitudinal fissure. h. Fasciculus uncinatus.—Under this name is described a white bundle, seen on the lower aspect of the hemisphere, passing across the bottom of the Sylvian fis- sure, and connecting the anterior with the middle and posterior lobes. The fibres of this bundle expand at each extremity, and the more superficial of them are curved or hooked sharply between the contiguous parts of the anterior and middle lobes,—whence it has received its name. c. The convolutions of the cerebrum are connected with each other by white fibres, which lie immediately beneath the cortical substance. Some of them pass across the bottom of the sulcus between adjacent convolutions ; whilst others, which are longer and run deeper, connect convolutions situated at a greater distance from one another. Fig. 381. Fig. 381.—View op a Dissection of the Fibres of the Gyrus Fornicatus and Fornix IN the Right Hemisphere (slightly altered from Foville). ■§ A, the anterior lobe ; B, the posterior lobe ; a, a', a!\ fibres of the gyrus fornicatus ; c, c', oblique bands of fibres of some of its accessory gyri; 6, tegmentum, and g, crust of the crus cerebri, separated by the locus niger ; I, thalamus ; m, fissure of Sylvius ; n, corpus albicans ; q, median section of the corpus callosum ; s, septum lucidum; t, the fornix, its anterior pillar descending into the corpus albicans, and then emerging from that at its termination (*) in the thalamus ; 1, the olfactory bulb ; 2, the optic commissure. The researches of Foville have led him to differ considerably from other anatomists as to the course of the fibres of the cerebrum, as will be seen from the following statement of his views :— 1, The crust or fasciculated portion of each cerebral peduncle, derived from the anterior pyramid, forms by itself the peduncular fibrous cone, and is thence con- tinued on into the radiating fibres of the cerebrum, which are destined only for the convolutions on the convex surface of the hemisphere, including the outer half of the marginal convolution of the longitudinal fissure, and the inner half of the con- volution of the Sylvian fissure. 2. The fibres of the tegmentum, having entered the thalamus, pass on in two ways no part of them, however, joining the radiating peduncular fibres. a. One set pass upwards through the thalamus and corpus striatum, above which