841 STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. ner and paler ; the valvulse conniveutes are small, and gradually dis- appear towards its lower end ; the villi are shorter ; and the groups of Peyer's glands are larger and more numerous. The diameter of the je- junum is about one inch and a half, that of the ileum about one inch and a quarter. A given length of the jejunum weighs more than the same of the ileum. At a point in the lower part of the ileum it is not very uncommon to find a cul-de- sac or diverticulum given off from the main tube. The origin of these diverticula is explained by reference to the history of development, from which it appears that they arise in connection with the ductus vitello-intestinalis, uniting the intestine with the umbilical vesicle. They are not to be confounded with hernial protrusions of the mucous membrane, which may occur at any point. (See Meckel's Handbook of Anatomy, French edition, vol. ii. p. 431.) Structure of the Small Intestine. Structure.—The walls of the small intestine, like those of the stomach, are composed of four coats, viz., the serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The external or serous coat, derived from the peritoneum, almost en- tirely surrounds the intestinal tube in the whole extent of the jejunum and ileum, leaving only a narrow interval along one border of the intes- tine, where it is reflected from it and becomes continuous with the two layers of the peritoneal duplicature named the mesentery. The line at which this reflexion takes place is named the attached or mesenteric harder of the intestine. The opposite border and sides of the tube, which are covered by the peritoneum, are quite free and movable upon the adjacent parts. The upper part, however, of the small intestine, named the duode- num, is but partially covered by the peritoneum, as has been already more particularly described. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres ; an outer longitudinal, and an inner or circular set. The longitudinal fibres constitute an entire but comparatively thin layer, and are most obvious along the free border of the intestine. The circular layer is much thicker and more distinct ; its fibres are placed closely together, and run in a circular direction around the bowel, but it does not appear that they individually form perfect rings. This muscular tunic becomes gradually thinner towards the lower part of the small intestine. It is pale in colour, and is composed of plain mus- cular fibres. The progressive contraction of these fibres, commencing in any part of the intestine, and advancing in a downward direction, produces the peculiar vermicular or peristaltic movement by which the digestive mass is forced onwards through the canal. In this movement the circular fibres are mainly concerned ; but the longitudinal fibres also aid in it ; and those found along the free border of the intestine may have the efiect of straightening or unfolding, as it were, its successive convolutions. The areolar or submucous coat of the small intestine is a tolerably dis- tinct and whitish layer, of a loose texture, which is connected more firmly with the mucous than with the muscular coat, between which two it is placed. By turning a portion of the intestine inside out, and then blowing forcibly into the cavity, the areolar tunic may be inflated, the air being driven into its areolar tissue, through the part at which the peri- toneal investment is wanting. It supports the mucous membrane, and forms a layer of loose substance in which the vessels divide and subdivide into smaller branches, preparatory to entering the mucous tissue. It con- sists of filamentous areolar tissue, mixed with fine elastic fibres.