DISSECTION OF THE AHDOMEX AXD PELVIS. 1072 this time to be dissected. On removal of the skin, the dorsal arteries, vein, and nerves, together with the aiispiinsory ligament, will be brought into view (pp. 428, 479, and 071). The corpora cavernosa, corpus spongiosum, and glans are then to be dissected ; and the glans may, with care, ba sepa- rated from the corpora cavernosa (p. 950). The pendulous portion of thu penis is to be cut across, the section examined, and the urethra slit open. The testicles and spermatic cord will next be dissected. The fascia cremastcrica is to be laid open, and the cremasteric brancli of the epigastric artery and genital branch of the genit>cniral nerve found (p. 904). The fascia propria is to be remove], and the elements of the cord examine;!, viz., the vas deferens and the spermatic artery, veins, and nerves. The testicle may then be removed, the tunica vaginalis opened, and the appear- ance and relations of the epididymis and vas deferens noticed (p. 907). The caput epididymis, in front of which will be seen the hydatid of Morgagui, is to be raised from the tunica albuginea, and the epididymis and coni vasculosi are to be dissected out. The tunica albuginea must then be divided, and the arrangement of the tubuli seminiferi in the lobules made apparent under water, and the mediastinum exhibited. 4. A bdominal Ccuibj ; Peritoneum ; Small Intestines^ and Colon.—The cavity of the abdomen is to be opeued by a vertical and a transverse incision crossing one another on the left side of the umbilicus ; but the vertical incision is, in the first instance, to be arrested at the umbilicus, in order that the urachus and the fossa3 into which tlic peritoneum is thrown by the obliterated hypogastric arteries mav be examined. The peritoneal cavity, especially the pelvic part, is to b3 carefully sponged out and all grumous fluid removed from it, and a piece of cotton soaked with spirit is to be laid in the recto-vesical fossa ; on the adoption of these precautions the practicability and comfort of the later parts of the dissection materially depend. The general arrangement of the viscera is first to be examined, including the jjosition and relations of the stomach, spleen, liver, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, coecum and other parts of the colon, the rectum, and the kidneys (p. 823). The folds of the peritoneum are next to be studied (p. 820). This membrane should be followed trans- versely and vertically tliroughout the abdominal cavity, and the line of attachment of the mesentery to the wall of the abdomen should be dis- played. The disposition of the foramen of Winslow and the great omentum should then be investigated, and, in order that the interior of the sac of the great omentum may be seen, a transverse cut should be made into it below the arch of vessels which lies along the great curvature of the stomach, and by this means the posterior surface of the stomach and the anterior surface of the pancreas will also be brought into view. When the disposition of the great omentum has been observed, the small or gastro-hepatic omentum, the gastro-splenic omentum, the meso-colou, and the relations of the duo- denum to the peritoneum will be easily followed. After the study of the peritoneum has been completed, the transverse colon is to be lifted upwards, and the small intestines turned over to the left side, in such a manner as to display the whole of the upper or right side of the mesentery ; and the distribution of the superior mesenteric artery, from the lower border of the pancreas downwards, with the accom- panying vein and plexus of nerves, is then to be brought out by dissection (pp. 410 and 702). From its right side the artery will be seen to give oflF the middle colic, right colic, and ileo-colic branches, and from its left side about a dozen