MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE CORD. 511 connective tissue is remarkably abundant, and the nerve fibres particularly small. The connective tissue forms also a reticulum (processus reticularis), in which the longitudinal nerve fibres are imbedded. In the grey matter the connective tissue is still more abundant, more especially in the immediate neighbourhood of the central canal. Much discussion has taken place as to whether the smallest cells already described are really nervous or belong to the connective tissue. In the present imperfect state of knowledge of the development of nervous elements, it might be rash to express a decided opinion on this point; but it may be stated that, independent of these, nuclei are figured by Kolliker in the reticulum, and also cells containing numerous and dividing nuclei in the neighbourhood of the central canal. Origin of the spinal nerves.—The anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves are attached along the sides of the cord in or near the anterior and posterior lateral grooves, and opposite to the corresponding cornua of the grey matter; the posterior roots in a straight line, and the anterior roots scattered somewhat irregularly upon the surface (Fig. 345). The fibres of the anterior roots may be traced into and through the anterior cornua. They then diverge in different directions. The innermost fibres, after passing through among the cells in the inner group of the anterior cornu, cross in the white commissure to the anterior column of the opposite side. Many fibres pass backwards in the substance of the anterior cornu where some of them would appear to form connection with fibres proceeding from other parts of the cord, and others to spread obliquely upwards and downwards; while those which are most external, passing through the outer group of cells, reach the lateral column. Fig. 347.—A Small Por- Fig. 347. TioN OF A Transverse Section of the Spinal Cord at the place where two bundles op THE Fibres of the Anterior Roots pass INTO the grey sub- stance. 1 This figure may be looked upon as representing the inner ends of the anterior roots of the nerves, of which the outer part is shown in fig, 348. a, a, the two bundles of fibres of tie anterior root passing between the compartments of longitudinal fibres of the cord; 6, h, these fibres running backwards through the grey substance towards the posterior cornua ; c, c', those spreading in the anterior cornua on the one side towards the anterior commissure, and on the other round the outer side of the anterior cornu ; d, cl, portions of three com- partments of the anterior columns in which the longitudinal fibres of the cord are shown in transverse section ; e, e, large radiated and nucleated cells in the grey substance of the anterior cornu—some with three, others with a greater number of processes emanating from them : no direct communication is shown between these processes and the nerve fibres of the roots. The fibres of the posterior roots on reaching the posterior cornu diverge from each other in a curved manner, so as to form in great part the substantia gelatinosa. In front of this there may be seen, cut across in transverse sections, a group of these fibres which turn longitudinally upwards and downwards, and afterwards pass forwards, in part at least, to the anterior cornu, and in part to reach by the posterior commissure the posterior and lateral columns of the opposite side. Other fibres of the posterior roots pass forwards at once through the grey substance to the anterior