884 THE SPLEEN. slightly notched, especially towards the lower part. The lower end is pointed, and is in contact with the left end of the arch of the colon, or with the transverse meso-colon. The position of the liilus corresponds with the line of attachment of the gastro-splenic omentum. Along the bottom of this fissure are large openings or depressions, which transmit blood-vessels, with lymphatics and nerves, to and from the interior of the organ. In some cases there is no distinct fissure, but merely a row of openings for the vessels ; and in others the situation of the hilus is occupied by a longitu- dinal ridge, interrupted by the vascular orifices. The peritoneal connec- tions of the spleen have been already described (pp. 827 and 830). A portion of variable extent behind the hilus, and towards its lower end, will usually be observed deriving its peritoneal covering from the sac of the omentum. The spleen varies in magnitude more than any other organ in the body; and this not only in different subjects, but in the same individual, under different conditions, sometimes appearing shrunk, and at others being much distended. On this account it is difficult or impossible to state what are its ordinary weight and dimensions : in the adult it measures generally about 5 or 54 inches from the upper to the lower end, 3 or 4 inches from the anterior to the posterior border, and 1 or 1^ inch from its external to its internal surface ; and its usual volume, according to Krause, is from 9| to 15 cubic inches. In the greater number of a series of cases examined by Reid, its weight ranged from 5 to 7 oz. in the male, and was somewhat less in the female; but even when perfectly free from disease, it may fluctuate between 4 and 10 ounces. Gray states that the proportion of the spleen to the weight of the adult body varies from 1: 320 to 1 : 400. In the foetus the proportion is as 1: 350. After the age of forty the average weight gradually diminishes, so that in old age the weight of the spleen is to that of the body as 1 : 700 (H. Gray). The specific gravity of this organ, according to Haller, Soemmerring, and Krause, is about 1*060. In intermittent and some other fevers the spleen is much distended and enlarged, reaching below the ribs, and often w^eighing as much as 18 or 20 lbs. In enlargement and solidification it has been known to weigh upwards of 40 lbs.; and it has been found reduced by atrophy to the weight of two drachms. Small detached roundish nodules are occasionally found in the neighbourhood of the spleen, similar to it in substance. These are commonly named accessory or supplementary spleens (splenculi; lienculi). Of these one or two most commonly occur, but a greater number, and even up to twenty-three, have been met with. They are small rounded masses, varying from the size of a pea to that of a walnut. They are usually situated near the lower end of the spleen, either in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in the great omentum. These separate splenculi in the human subject bring to mind the multiple condition of the spleen in some animals, and also the deeper notching of the anterior margin of the organ which sometimes occurs in man. Structure.—The spleen has two membranous investments—a serous coat derived from the peritoneum, and a special albugineous fibro-elastic tunic. The substance of the organ, which is very soft and easily lacerated, is of a dark reddish-brown colour, but acquires a bright red hue on exposure to the air. Sometimes, however, the substance of the spleen is paler, and has a greyish aspect. It also varies in density, being occasionally rather solid, though friable. The substance of the organ consists of a reticular frame- work of whitish elastic bands or trabecule, of an immense proportion of blood-vessels, the larger of which run in elastic canals, and of a peculiar intervening pulpy substance, besides lymphatic vessels and nerves. The peritoneal coat is thin, smooth, and firmly adherent to the elastic tunic beneath, but it may be detached by careful dissection, commencing at the borders of the hilus. It closely invests the surface of the organ, except at the places of its reflection to the stomach and diaphragm, and at the hilus. The proper tunic, much thicker and stronger than the serous, is whitish in