1073 EXAMINATION OF THE mTESTINES. branches to the small intestines ; and of these intestinal branches the dissector may trace the primary, secondary and tertiary arches of anasto- mosis. If the left branch of bifurcation of the middle colic artery be followed, it will lead the dissector to the left colic, and so to the trunk of the inferior mesenteric artery, with its accompanying vein and nerves, situated to .the left of the mesentery ; and to study these the intestines must now be turned over to the right side. In addition to the left colic, the sigmoid branch of the inferior mesenteric artery will then also be seen, and the first part of the superior hsemorrhoidal vessels before they descend into the pelvis upon the meso-rectum (p. 412). ,The dissector will now tie the intestine, a little below the termination of the duodenum, with two ligatures about an inch and a half distant, and will divide it between the ligatures ; in like manner he will secure and divide the great intestine at the lower extremity of the sigmoid flexure : he will then remove from the body the whole length of intestine between the upper and lower ligatures. To do this properly, he must begin from above, and pulling the ligatured extremity upwards with his left hand, with his right apply the scalpel lightly to the edge of the mesentery, close to the bowel. By this means the whole small intestines may with ease be re- moved, and the mesentery left in the abdomen. The large intestine may now also be removed as far as the rectum. The intestines are to be taken to the trough, and there they are to be thoroughly cleaned, by having water run through them from the jejunal end. They may then be spread out on a table and inflated, in order that the relative length and diameter of the different parts may be observed, the arrangement of muscular bands on the colon, and other facts as to their structure (pp. 840 and 854). The small intestine is to be separated from the great, several inches above the csBcum. A portion near the upper end may be cut separate, inflated and dried, in order to show the valvulse conniventes which are thus put upon the stretch. The remainder is to be slit open in its whole extent, which may be best done wilh a pair of scissors, one of the points of which has been blunted with a small piece of cork ; the appearance of the mucous membrane in the different parts is then to be studied, attention being parti- cularly directed to the distribution of the villi and valvulse conniventes (p. 842), and to the patches of Peyer's glands (p. 84G). The great intes- tine is next to be divided some inches beyond the csecal valve, and the remainder is to be slit up and its mucous membrane examined. Lastly, the csecum is to be very carefully washed, and the structure and action of the csecal valve studied, by filling the portion of colon with water (p. 852). The water will be retained although the portion of ileum be left untied, and the position of the valve when closed may thus be seen. The caecum may then be slit open on the side opposite the valve, and the vermiform appen- dage may also be opened to observe its glandular structure. 5. Stomach and Duodenum, Pancreas, Spleen, and Liver.—The duo- denum and stomach are to be slightly inflated, and the arteries arising from the coeiiac axis are to be dissected (p. 406). The student may begin by dissecting the splenic artery, following its course to the spleen, and observing its branches to the pancreas, to the stomach, the vasa brevia, and the left gastro-epiploic artery. Let him next trace the coronary artery of the stomach along the small curvature of that organ. Then, in following out the hepatic artery to its division into right and left branches, he will find the pyloric branch anastomosing with the coronary artery ; the cystic branch going to the gall bladder ; and the gastro-duodenal branch dividing 4 A