852 THE mTESTINE. which greatly exceeds that of the small intestine, varies at different points from two inches and a half to about one inch and a half. It diminishes gradually from its commencement at the caecum to its termination at the anus ; excepting that there is a well-marked dilatation of the rectum just above its lower end. In outward form, the greater part of the large intestine differs remarkably from the small intestine ; for, instead of constituting an even cylindrical tube, its surface is thrown into numerous sacculi, marked off from each other by intervening constrictions, and arranged in three longitudinal rows, separated by three strong flat bands of longitudinal muscular fibres. This sacculated structure is not found in the rectum. For the sake of convenience the description of the rectum will be reserved till that of the rest of the great intestine is completed. The C^.cum. The intestinum csecum, or caput caecum coli, is that part of the large intestine which is situated below the entrance of the ileum. Its length is about two inches and a half, and its diameter nearly the same : it is the widest part of the large intestine. The cajcum is situated in the right iliac fossa, immediately behind the an- terior wall of the abdomen. It is covered by the peritoneum in front, below, and at the sides : but behind it is usually destitute of peritoneal covering, and is attached by areolar tissue to the fascia covering the right iliacus muscle. In this case the csecum is comparatively fixed ; but in other instances the peritoneum surrounds it almost entirely, and forms a duplicature behind it, called meso-cmcum. Proceeding from the inner and back part of the csecum, at its lower end, is a narrow, round, and tapering portion of the intestine, named the appendix cceci, or appendix vermiformis. The width of this process is usually about that of a large quill or rather more, and its length varies from three to six inches, these dimensions differing much in different cases. Its general direction is upwards and inwards behind the csecum ; and after describing a few slight turns it ends in a blunt point. It is retained in its position by a small fold of peritoneum, which forms its mesentery. The csecal appendix is hollow as far as its extremity : and its cavity commu- nicates with that of the csecum by a small orifice, sometimes guarded by a valvular fold of mucous membrane. This appendix is peculiar, as far as is known, to man and certain of the higher apes, and to the wombat ; but in some animals, as in the rabbit and hare, the distal part of the csecum, being diminished in diameter and highly glandular, may represent a condition of the appendix. Heo-ccecal or ileo-colic valve.—The lower part of the small intestine, ascending from left to right, and from before backwards, enters the com- mencement of the large intestine, with a considerable degree of obliquity, about two inches and a half from the bottom of the csecum, and opposite the junction of the latter with the ascending colon. The opening leading from the ileum into the large intestine is guarded by a valve composed of two segments or folds. This is the ileo-coical or ileo-colic valve: it is also called the valve of Bauhin and the valve of Tulpius, though Fallopius had described it before either of those anatomists. The entrance between the two segments of the valve is a narrow elongated aperture, lying nearly transverse to the direction of the great intestine. The anterior end of this aperture, which is turned forwards and slightly to the left, is rounded, hut the posterior end is narrow and pointed. It is bounded above and below by two prominent semilunar folds, which project