THE INTESTINE. 858 muscles, by wliicli it is supported. Lastl}^, at its termination it is sur- rounded by the external sphincter ani muscle. In the female, the lower portion of the rectum is firmly connected with the back of the vagina. Structure.—The rectum differs in some respects from the rest of the large intestine, in the structure of both its muscular and its mucous coats. The muscular coat is very thick : the external or longitudinal fibres form a uniform layer round it, and cease near the lower end of the intes- tine ; the internal or circular fibres, on the contrary, become more numerous in that situation, where they form what is named the internal sphincter muscle. Tlie longitudinal fibres are paler than the circular fibres, but both layers become darker and redder towards the termination of the bowel. The mucous membrane of the rectum is tliicker, redder, and more vas- cular than that of the colon ; and it moves freely upon the muscular coats ; —in that respect resembling the lining membrane of the oesophagus. It presents numerous folds of different sizes, aiid running in various directions, nearly all of which are effaced by the distension of the bowel. Near the anus these folds are principally longitudinal, and seem to depend on the contraction of the sj)hincter muscles outside the loosely connected mucous membrane. The larger of these folds were named by Morgagni the columns of the rectum {columncB recti). Treitz states that these columns consist of longitudinal muscular fibres, which terminate both superiorly and inferiorly in elastic tissue. Higher up in the intestine, the chief folds are transverse or oblique. Three prominent folds, larger than the rest, being half an inch or more in depth, and having an oblique direction in the interior of the rectum, have been pointed out specially by Houston. One of these projects backwards from the upper and fore part of the rectum, opposite the prostate gland ; another is placed higher up, at the side of the bowel ; and the tliird still higher. From the position and projection of these folds, they may more or less impede the introduction of instruments. (Houston, Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v.) Vessels and Nerves.—The aHeries of the rectum spring from three sources, viz. the superior heemorrhoidal branches from the inferior mesenteric; the middle hse- morrhoidal branches from the internal iliac directly or indirectly; and, lastly, the external or inferior hsemorrhoidal branch from the pudic artery. The arrangement of the vessels is not the same throughout the rectum. Over the greater part the arteries penetrate the muscular coat at short intervals, and, at once dividing into small branches, form a network by their communication. Towards the lower end, for four or five inches, the aiTangement differs. Here the vessels, having penetrated the muscular coat at difierent heights, assume a longitudinal direction, passing in parallel fines towards the end of the bowel. In their progress downwards they communicate with one another at intervals, and they are very freely connected near the orifice, where all the arteries join by transverse branches of considerable size. (Quain, Dis- eases of the Eectum). The veins are very numerous, and form a complex interlacement resembling that of the arteries just described, and named the hsemorrhoidal plexus. After following a longitudinal course upwards similar to that of the arteries which they accompany, they end partly in the internal iliac vein by branches which accompany the middle hsemorrhoidal artery, and partly in the inferior mesenteric vein. Hence, the blood from the rectum is returned in part into the vena cava, and in part into the portal system. (See Fig. 325.) The lymphatics enter some glands placed in the hollow of the sacrum, or those of the lumbar series. The nerves are very numerous, and are derived from both the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic systems. The former consist of branches derived from the sacral plexus; and the latter, of offsets from the inferior mesenteric and hypogastric plexuse?.