THE EYE. 738 Fig. 492.—Transverse Vertical Section op the Fig. 492. projection from below upwards between the lens and the optic vesicle, ih such a manner as to invaginate the superficial and lower walls of the vesicle, pressing them upwards and inwards on the superior and deep walls, and giving them the form of a cup imperfect below, the secondary optic vesicle. The involution gives rise to the Fig. 491.—Diagrammatic Sketch of a Vertical Longitudinal Section THROUGH THE EyEBALL OP A HuMA.N Fcetus op Four Weeks (after Kolli- ker). ii« 1 The section is a little to the side so as to avoid passing through the ocular cleft, c, the cuticle, where it becomes later the cornea ; I, the lens; op, optic nerve formed by the pedicle of the primary optic vesicle ; vp, primary medullary cavity or optic vesicle ; p, the pigment layer of the choroid coat of the outer wall ; r, the inner wall forming the retina; vs, secon- dary optic vesicle containing the rudiment of the vitreous humour. cavity in which the vitreous humour is formed; and, the forepart of the optic nerve participating in the invagination, it is by this means that the central artery of the retina is introduced into the nerve and the eyeball, being, as it were, folded within them. The deficiency in the wall of the cup of the secondary vesicle inferiorly is Eyeball op a Human Embryo of Four Weeks (from Kolliker). i2? The anterior half of the section is represented. pr, the remains of the cavity of the primary optic vesicle ; p, the inner part of the outer layer, form- ing the choroidal pigment ; r, the thickened inner part giving rise to the columnar and other struc- tures of the retina ; v, the commencing viti-eous humour within the secondai'y optic vesicle ; v', the ocular cleft through which the loop of the central bloodvessel, a, projects from below; Z, the lens with a central cavity. gradually filled up by the growing downwards of the edges, until only a cleft is left, which is discernible for a considerable time, and has been named the ocular cleft. The history of this cleft is of interest in connection with congenital fissure of the iris (coloboma iridis) and the accompanying condition of the choroid membrane. Some difference of opinion exists with regard to the subsequent history of the walls of the secondary vesicle, but the opinion of Kolliker appears to be well founded, that the invaginated layer forms the retina, and the outer part the pigmentary epithelium of the choroid. Thus the elements of Jacob's membrane and the hexagonal cells of the choroid may be regarded as originally continuous, forming together the epithelial lining of the cavity of the primary vesicle; and the development of nervous tissue underneath Jacob's membrane, while none exists beneath the choroidal layer, is a circumstance which may be looked upon as analogous to the absence of nervous tissue from various parts of the walls of the cerebral vesicles. The sclerotic coat and cornea are formed from the surrounding tissue external to the parts of the eye which they enclose; and, according to Kolliker, the vascular part of the choroid is of later formation. Still later, in the second month of foetal life, the iris begins to be formed Fig. 491.