919 DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH OF THE LARYNX. be seeu almost everywhere, excepting upon and near the true vocal cords. They abound particularly upon the epiglottis, in the substance of which are found upwards of fifty small compound glands, some of them perforating the cartilage. Between the anterior surface of the epiglottis, the hyoid bone, and the root of the tongue, is a mass of yellowish fat, erroneously named the epiglottidean gland, in or upon which some real glands may exist. Another collection of glands, named arytenoid, is placed within the fold of mucous membrane in front of each arytenoid cartilage, from which a series may be traced forwards, along the corresponding superior vocal cord. The glands of the laryngeal pouches have already been described. Vessels and Nerves of the Larynx. The arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior thyroid (p. 343), a branch of the external carotid, and fi'om the inferior thyroid (p. 371), a branch of the subclavian. The veins join the superior, middle and inferior thyroid veins. The lyinphalics are numerous, and pass through the cervical glands. The nerves are supplied from the superior laryngeal and inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric nerves, joined by branches of the sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerves supply the mucous membrane, and also the crico-thyroid muscles, and in part the arytenoid muscle. The inferior laryngeal nerves supply, in part, the arytenoid muscle, and all the other muscles, excepting the crico-thyroid. The superior and inferior laryngeal nerves of each side communicate with each other in two places, viz., at the back of the larynx, beneath the pharyngeal mucous mem- brane, and on the side of the larynx, under the ala of the thyroid cartilage (p. 622). DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH OF THE LARYNX. Development.—The rudimentary larynx consists, according to Valentin, of two slight enlargements having a fissure between them, and embracing the entrance from the pharynx into the trachea. According to Reichert, the rudiments of the arytenoid cartilages are the first to appear, Rathke, however, states that all the true cartilages are formed at the same time, and are recognisable together as the larynx enlarges, the epiglottis only appearing later. In the human embryo, Fleischmann could not detect the cartilages at the seventh week, though the larynx was half a line in length, but at the eighth week there were visible the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, consisting at that period of two lateral halves, which are afterwards united together in the sixth month. Kolliker, however, states that Fleischmann had been deceived by the presence of a deep groove, and that by making transverse sections he ascertained that those cartilages are single from the first. Growth.—During childhood the growth of the larynx is very slow. Richerand found that there was scarcely any difference between the dimensions of this organ in a child of three and in one of twelve years of age. Up to the age of puberty the larynx is similar in the male and female, the chief characteristics at that period being the small size and comparative slightness of the organ, and the smooth rounded form of the thyroid cartilage in front. In the female these conditions are permanent, excepting that a slight increase in size takes place. In the male, on the contrary, at the time of puberty, remarkable changes rapidly occur, and the larynx becomes more prominent and more perceptible at the upper part of the neck. Its cartilages become larger, thicker, and stronger, and the alaa of the thyroid cartilage project forwards in front so as to form at their union with one another, with an acute angle, the prominent ridge of thepomum Adami. At the same time the median notch on its upper border is consider- ably deepened. In consequence of these changes in the thyroid cartilage, the distance between its angle in front and the arytenoid cartilages behind becomes greater, and the chordae vocales are necessarily lengthened. Hence the dimensions of the glottis, which, at the time of puberty, are increased by about one-third only in the female, are nearly doubled in the male, and the adult male larynx becomes altogether one-third larger than that of the female. Tow3,rds the middle of life the cartilages of the larynx first show a tendency to