MmUTE STRUCTUrvE OF THE SPLEEN. 885 colour and highly elastic. It cannot be raised from the spleen, because it is bound down by the trabecules of the substance, with the superficial bands of which it is continuous. Along the hilus this coat is reflected into the interior of the spleen, in the form of elastic sheaths or canals, which sur- round or include the large blood-vessels and nerves, and their principal branches. These sheaths ramify with the vessels which they include, and their finer subdivisions are continuous with the trabecular structure. The arrangement of the elastic sheaths and trabeculse may be easily displayed by pressing and washing out the pulp from a section of the spleen ; and then they are seen to form a close reticulation through the substance. Thus, Fig. 619.—Vertical Sec- tion OF A Small Super- ficial Portion of the Human Spleen (from Kolliker). 1. 38 A, peritoneal and fibrous covering ; h, trabeculfie ; cc, Malpighian corpuscles, in one of which an artery is seen cut transversely, in the other longitudinally ; d, injected arterial twigs; e, spleen-pulp, with the venous spaces and the finest spleen tissue, the venous spaces all com- pletely full of blood and somewhat wider than na- tural. Fig. 619. the proper coat, the sheaths of the ves- sels, and the trabeculse, all of a highly elastic nature, constitute a distensible framework, which contains in its inter- stices or areolae the vessels and the red pulpy substance of the spleen. Fig. 620.—Section of Hardened Spleen-Substance (from Kol- liker after a preparation by Billroth). JL The spleen had been hardened in chromic acid and abohol. a, Malpighian bodies, one of them having an artery dividing into three twigs within, the other with two arteries cut through ; h, tra- beculee; c, artery ; in the re- maining parts the clear spaces are the capillary veins of Billroth, the darker ones are the smallest trabeculse of the spleen-substance. These fibrous structures are all composed of interlaced bundles of areolar tissue mixed with a large amount of tine elastic tissue. In addition to these elements, in the spleen of the pig, the dog, and the