894 THE LUNGS. At the root of eacli lung which is enclosed by its own pleura, the visceral and parietal portions of this membrane are continuous with each other ; and commencing immediately at the lower border of the root, there is found a triangular fold or duplicature of the serous membrane, extending vertically between the inner surface of the lung and the posterior mediastinum, and reaching down to the diaphragm, to which it is attached by its extremity ; this fold, which serves to attach the lower part of the lung, is named liga^ mentum lakmi pulmoviis. The upper part of each pleura, which receives the apex of the correspond- ing lung, projects in the form of a cul-de-sac through the superior aperture of the thorax into the neck, reaching an inch or even an inch and a half above the margin of the first rib, and passing up under cover of the scaleni muscles,—a small slip of which, arising from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, is described by Sibson as expanding into a dome-like aponeurosis or fascia, which covers or strengthens the pleural cul-de-sac, and is attached to the whole of the inner edge of the first rib. The right pleura is generally stated to reach higher in the neck than the left, but in twenty observations recorded by Hutchinson, the right lung was higher in ten cases, and the left in eight, whilst in two the height was equal on the two sides. Anteriorly the pleural sacs of opposite sides come nearly or altogether into contact behind the second piece of the sternum, and continue so for some distance ; but opposite the lower end of the sternum the right pleura passes beyond the middle line or remains close to it, while the left recedes to a variable distance from the sternum. Inferiorly the pleurae do not pass quite down to the attachments of the diaphragm, but leave a portion of its circum- ference in contact with the costal parietes. Owing to the height of the diaphragm on the right side (corresponding with the greater convexity of the liver), the right pleural sac is shorter than the left ; it is at the same time wider. According to Luschka the right pleura, opposite a line descend- ing from the axilla, reaches down to the lower border of the ninth rib, while the left pleura in the same transverse vertical plane reaches to the lower border of the tenth rib. Structure.—The pleura possesses the usual characters of serous membrane. The costal part of the membrane is the thickest, and may be easily raised from the ribs and intercostal spaces. It is strengthened in these situations by a layer of subserous areolar tissue of considerable thickness. On the pericardium and diaphragm the pleura is thinner and more firmly adherent; but it is thinnest and least easily detached upon the surface of the lungs, Luschka has described nerves in this membrane, with fine and coarse fibres, which are traceable to the phrenic and sympathetic. KoUiker states that in the pleura pulmonalis of man, branches of nerves may be seen accompanying the ramifications of the bronchial arteries. THE LUNGS. Form.—Each lung is shaped somewhat like a cone, having its base turned downwards, and its inner side much flattened. The base is broad, concave, and of a semilunar form, and rests upon the arch of the diaphragm. It is bounded by a thin margin, which is received in the angle between the ribs and the diaphragm ; and it reaches much lower down behind and at the outer side than in front and towards the middle line. The apex forms a blunted point, and, as already mentioned, reaches into the root of the neck, above the margin of the first rib, where it is separated from the first portion of the subclavian artery by the pleural membrane.