902 THE LUNGS. The following writers, among others, maintain the existence of epithelium in the air-cells : Addison, in Phil. Trans., 1842 ; llossignol, Recherches sur la Structure intime du Poumon, 1846 ; Kolliker, in his Gewebelehre ; Eberth, in Virchow's Archiv., xxiv. p. 503; and Julius Arnold, in Virchow's Archiv. xxviii. p. 433 ; Hirschmann, in the same, xxxvi. with addition and drawings by Chrzonszczewsky. The following are among those who deny the existence of epithelium :—Eainey, in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxviii., 1845 ; and in Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review, 1855; Radclyffe Hall, in Med.-Chir. Review, July, 1857 ; "Waters, Anatomy of the Human Lung, 1860 ; Luschka and Henle, in their works on Human Anatomy ; Badoky, in Virchow's Archiv., xxxiii. p. 264. Fig. 631.—Capillary Net- work OF THE Pulmonary Bloodvessels in the Hu- man Lung (from Kolli- ker). 22 The capillary network of the pulmonary vessels is spread beneath the thin transparent mucous mem- brane of both the ter- minal and lateral air-cells, and is found wherever the fiuet-t air tubes have lost their cylindrical character, and become beset with cells. Around the ex- terior of each cell there ii' an arterial circle, which communicates freely with similar neighbouring circles, the capillary systems of ten or twelve cells being thus connected together, as may be seen upon the surface of the lung. From Fig. 632.—Capillary Network on the Pul- monary Vesicles of the Horse (from Frey after a preparation by Grerlach). ^ a, the capillary network; h, the terminal branches of the pulmonary artery passing towards and surrounding in part each pul- monary vesicle. these circular vessels, which vary in dia- meter from -j2To*^ "sie^^ inch, the capillary network arises, covering the bottom of each cell, ascending also between the duplicature of mucous membrane in the intercellular septa, and surrounding the opeoiugs of the cells. As was pointed out by Rainey, the capillary network, where it rises into the intercellular parti- tions, although it forms a double layer in the lungs of reptiles, is bujgle in the lungs of man and mammalia. The capillaries are very fine, the smallest measuring, in injected specimens, from 2 5^4 0^^ 5^Vo*^ i^ch; the network is so close that the meshes Fig. 631. Fig. 632.