752 THE EAR. tube, however, this membrane becomes gradually thinner. In the tympa- num and the mastoid cells it is paler, thinner and less vascular, and secretes a less viscid, but yellowish fluid. The epithelium in the tympanic cavity is also ciliated. The cilia, however, are usually absent from the part which lines the membrana tympani (KoUiker, Haudbuch, p. 691). THE VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TYMPANUM. The arteries of the tympanum, though very small, are numerous, and are derived from several branches of the external, and from the internal carotid. The fore part of the cavity is supplied chiefly by the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary (p. 356), which enters by the fissure of Glasser. The back part of the cavity including the mastoid cells, receives its arteries from the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery (p. 353), which is conducted to the tympanum by the aqueduct of Fallopius. These two arteries form by their anastomosis a vascular circle round the margin of the membrana tympani. The smaller arteries of the tympanum are, the pet7-osal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the Malm Fallopii; branches through the bone from the internal carotid artery, furnished from that vessel whilst in the carotid canal; and occasionally a twig along the Eustachian tube from the ascending pharyngeal artery. The veins of the tympanum pour their contents through the middle meningeal and pharyngeal veins, and through a plexus near the articulation of the lower jaw, into the internal jugular vein. Nerves.—The tympanum contains numerous nerves ; for, besides those which supply the parts of the middle ear, there are several which serve merely to connect nerves of difierent origin. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied by filaments from the plexus (tympanic jdexus), which occupies the shallow grooves on the inner wall of the cavity, particularly on the surface of the promontory. The tympanic plexus is formed by the communications between, 1st, the tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson) from the petrous ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal; 2nd, Si filament from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic; 3rd, a branch which joins the great superficial petrosal nerve, from the Vidian ; 4th and lastly, the small superficial petrosal nerve, from the otic ganglion. Fig. 506. Fig. 506.—View of the Tympanic Plexus op Nerves (after Hirschfeld and Leveille). 6, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve; 8, great superficial petrosal nerve ; 9, carotid branch of the Vidian nerve ; 10, part of the sixth nerve con- nected b}"^ twigs with the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; 12, carotid branch ; 13, facial nerve ; 14, glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 15, nerve of Jacobson; 16, its twig to the sympathetic ; 17, filament to the fenestra rotunda ; 18, filament to the Eustachian tube ; 19, filament to the fenestra ovalis ; 20, union of external deep petrosal nerve with the lesser superficial petrosal; 21, internal deep petrosal twig uniting with the great superficial petrosal. The nerve of Jacobson enters the tympanum by a small foramen near its floor, which forms the upper end of a short canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, beginning at the base of the skull between the carotid foramen and the jugular