819 THE PHAEYNX. Development.— In mammalia, according to MUller and Weber, the salivary glands as shown in the case of the parotid gland in the embryo of the sheep, first appear in the form of a simple canal with bud-like processes lying in a blastema, and communi- cating with the cavity of the mouth. This canal becomes more and more ramified to form the. ducts, whilst the blastema soon acquires a lobulated form, corresponding with that of the future gland, and at last wholly disappears, leaving the branched ducts, with their blood-vessels and connecting tissues. The submaxillary gland is said to be the first formed ; then the sublingual and the parotid. THE PHARYNX. The pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal which unites the cavi- ties of the mouth and nose to the oesophagus. It extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, and forms a sac open at the lower end, and imperfect in front, where it presents apertures leading into the nose, mouth, and larynx. The velum pendulum palati projects backwards into the pharynx, and during the passage of the food completely separates an upper from a lower part by means of the contraction of the muscles connected with it which are placed in the posterior pillars of the fauces. Seven openings lead into the cavity of the pharynx ; viz., above the velum, the two posterior openings of the nares and, at the sides, the apertures of the Eustachian tubes ; while below the velum, there is first the passage leading from the mouth, then the superior opening of the larynx, and lastly the passage into the oesophagus. The walls of the pharynx consist of a fascia or layer of fibrous tissues, named the pharyngeal aponeurosis, dense at its upper part but lax and weak below, surrounded by muscles, and lined by a mucous membrane. At its upper end this fibrous wall is attached to the posterior margin of the body of the sphenoid bone, and passes outwards to the petrous portion of the temporal. It is strengthened in the middle line by a strong band de- scending between the recti antici muscles from a part of the basilar process which often presents a marked tubercle. The pharynx is usually described as attached superiorly to the basilar process of the occipital bone; it is certain, however, from dissections in both young and old subjects, that the recti capitis antici muscles come quite forward to the anterior ex- tremity of the basilar process; that the posterior wall of the pharynx at its upper end forms a cul-de-sac on each side opposite the tip of the petrous bone, and lies in a curve, with its convexity forwards, in front of the recti muscles; and that the only connection of the pharynx with the occipital bone is by means of the mesial band, which has been described, and which forms a cranio-pharyngeal ligament. The tubercle from which this band principally springs is sometimes named tuberculum pharyngeum. Behind, the wall of the pharynx is loosely connected by areolar tissue to the prevertebral fascia covering the bodies of the cervical vertebrae and the muscles which rest upon them. At the sides, the walls have similar connections, by loose areolar tissue, with the styloid process and its muscles, and with the large vessels and nerves of the neck. In front, they are attached in succession to the sides of the posterior nares, the mouth, and the larynx. Thus, commencing above by a tendinous structure only, at the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the Eustachian tube, the walls are connected by means of muscle and fibrous membrane, first, with the inter- nal pterygoid plate, then with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and next with the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw ; below this, they are attached 3 H 2