1017 FEMORAL AETERY. LIGATURE. tion may be perfornaeil by tDroing the mn^cle either towards the outer or the iimor side of the limb; and the incision would be made, according to the plan adopted, at the inner or the outer margin of the muscle. The Fig. 703. Fig. 703.—Deep View of the Femo- ral Artery and its Branches on the Left Side (from R. Quain). | The sartorius muscle has been re- moved in part, so as to expose the artery inthe midJle third of the thigh ; a, the anterior superior iliac spine ; b, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle near the outer abdominal rin,^, from which the spermatic cord is seen descending towards the scrotnm ; c, the upper part of the rectus femoris muscle ; d, adductor longus ; e, fibrous sheath of Hunter's canal covering the artery ; 1, femoral artery ; 1', femoral vein divided and tied close below Pou- part's ligament; 2, profunda femoris artery ; 3, anterior crural nerves ; 4, internal circumflex branch ; 5, super- ficial pudic branches ; 6, external cir- cumflex branch, w^ith its ascending transverse and descending branches separating from it; 6', twigs to the rectus muscle ; 7, branches to the vastus internus muscle ; 8, and 9, some of the muscular branches of the femoral. preferable moJe appears to be, to divide the integument on or over the muscle, near its inner margin, so as to arrive directly upon the muscle and draw it outwards, after cutting freely through the investing fascia The fibrous structure stretched over the vessels from the adduc- tors to the vastus internus muscle being divided, the position of the femoral vein and saphenous nerve are to be kept in view in com- pleting the operation. In the first steps of the operation in this part of the thigh, injury to the long saphenous vein is to be guarded against. Before concluding the observations on the femoral artery, a very small class of cases claims a word of notice. It has happened (in Sir Charles Bell's case) that the application of a ligature to a femoral artery has not been fol- lowed by the usual consequence of cessation of the pulsation in the aneurism ; and the uninterrupted continuance of the circulation was found, on exami- nation after death, to bj attributable to the circumstance of the artery b.-ing double where the ligature was applied, while the two parts becanie re-united above the tumour. If such a case should again be met with in an opera-