DISSEOTIOX OF THE LOWKK LIMBS. 1080 posterior femoral region. In order to open it tlie integument may be divided by a longitudinal incision of considerable length, which may be crossed if necessary by a transverse one in the middle of tlic space, sufficient to allow the integument to be thrown freely back. On removal of the superficial fat, the fascia lata, which is strong in this region, will come into view, and, in the lower part of the space, the terminal twigs of the small sciatic nerve (p. 675), and the upper part of the short saphenous vein (p. 476). The fascia lata is to be divided, and the fat carefully removed from the space, its boundaries cleaned, and the vessels and nerves with their branches traced. Superiorly the biceps muscle on the outside, and the semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles on the inside, and iuferiorly the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle with the small belly of the jjlantaris will thus be exposed. Lying in the space the dissector will find the external and internal pop- liteal nerves giving off their articular and sural branches (pp. 676 and 679), and more deeply the popliteal vessels in a common sheath (p. 441). He will follow out the branches of the popliteal artery, viz., its five articular branches, the superior, azygos, and inferior, and its sural branches. On the surface of the popliteal artery, where it enters the space, may be found a twig of the obturator nerve (p. 663). When the dissection of the popliteal space has been completed, it is to be united to that of the gluteal region by an incision along the posterior part of the thigh. The course of the small and great sciitic nerves will thus be laid bare, together with the biceps, semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles, the twigs of the great sciatic nerve supplied to these muscles, and to the adductor magnus, and the four perforating branches of the deep femoral artery (p. 439) ; the posterior aspect of the adductor magnus muscle will also be exposed. 3. The Front of the Thigh.—On the day on which the subject is laid upon its back, the student should begin the dissection of the front of the thigh, by studying the fasciae connected with the descent of femoral hernia. For this purpose an incision is to be made from the neighbourhood of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium inwards, in the line of the groin, and carried half away down the insiile of the thigh. The large flap of integument thus marked out is to be raised and turned outwards. The subcutaneous fascia is then to be laid bare by the removal of any fat, ani it will be advantageous if this can be done in concert with the dissector of the abdomen (p. 292). Various small superficial arteries and veins will be seen, viz. : the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and superior and inferior superficial pudic (p. 437). The fascia lata will be laid bare, and the cribriform fascia overlying tha saphenous opening. On the surface of the fascia lata will be brought into view the internal or long saphenous vein passing into the saphenous opening, frequently presenting two branches (p. 475) ; nearly in front of the femoral artery, the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve ; and in front of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the external cutaneous nerve (p. 660). A twig of the ilio-inguinal nerve may also be seen distributed to the skin of a small part of the thigh close to the pubes. The border of the saphenous opening is to be made distinct by removing the cribriform fascia, and in doing this the attachment of the superior cornu or falciform process to the pubic portion of the fascia lata is to be shown (p. 293). This falciform process is then to be separated from the fascia lata and turned to the outside sufficiently to expose the infundi- buliform or crural sheath, investing the femoral vessels, and the dissector