664 THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. This nerve is sometimes smaller than usual, and ends in filaments which perforate the capsule of the hip-joint. When it is altogether wanting, the hip-joint receives branches from the obturator nerve. Summary.—The obturator nerve and accessory obturator give branches to the hip and knee joints, also to the adductor muscles of the thigh, and, in some cases, to the pectineus. Occasionally a cutaneous branch descends to the inner side of the thigh, and to the inner and upper part of the leg. ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. This nerve is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus, and is derived principally from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, but in part also from the second. Emerging from the outer Fig. 489. border of the psoas muscle, near its lower part, it descends into the thigh in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus, and, therefore, to the outside of the femoral blood-vessels. It now becomes flattened out and divides into two parts, one of which is cutaneous, while the other is dis- tributed to muscles. Fig. 439.—Deep Nerves of the Anteeior and Inner part op the Thigh (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). ^ 1, anterior crural nerve; 2, branches given to the iliacus muscle ; 3, branch to the lower part of the psoas ; 4, large musculo-cutaneous branches divided to show the deeper nerves ; 6 and 6, mus- cular filaments from the small musculo-cutaneous ; 7, origin of the cutaneous branches; 8, communi- cating filament of the internal cutaneous nerves ; 9, branches to the rectus; 10, branches to the vastus externus ; 11, branches to the vastus inter- nus ; 12, internal saphenous nerve ; 13, its patellar branch; 14, its continuation down the leg: 15, obturator nerve ; 16, branch from the obturator nerve to the adductor longus; 17, branch to the adductor brevis ; 18, branch to the gracilis ; from this a filament is prolonged downwards, to unite with the plexus formed by the union of branches from the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves ; 19, deep branch of the obturator nerve to the adductor magnus ; 20, lumbo-sacral trunk ; 21, its union with the first sacral nerve ; 22, 22, lum- bar and sacral part of the sympathetic nerve ; 23, external cutaneous nerve from the lumbar plexus. Branches of the trunk.—The branches given from the anterior crural nerve within the abdomen are few and of small size. (a) The iliacus receives three or four small branches, which are directed outwards from the nerve to the fore part of the muscle. (6) The nerve of the femoral artery is a small branch which divides into numerous filaments upon the upper part of that vessel. It sometimes arises lower down than usual in the thigh. It may, on the other hand, be found to take origin above the ordinary position; and in this case it proceeds from the middle cutaneous nerve,