BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE IRIS. 723 the whole length of each ciliary process, and communicates through inter- vening vessels with a long venous trunk which runs a similar course on the attached surface. Fig. 469. Fig. 469.—Injected Vasa Vokticosa of the Choroid Coat (from Sappey). 1° 1, one of the larger veins ; 2, small communicating vessels ; 3, branches dividing into the smallest vorticose vessels. Arteries of the iris.—The special arteries of the iris are the long ciliary and the anterior ciliary. The long (posterior) ciliary arteries, two in number, and derived from the ophthal- mic, pierce the sclerotic a little before, and one on each side of the optic nerve. Having gained the interval between the sclerotic and choroid coats, they extend horizontally forwards through the loose connective tissue {memhrana fusca) to the ciliary muscle. In this course they lie nearly in the horizontal plane of the axis of the eye-ball, the outer vessel being however a little above, and the inner one a little below the level of that line. A short space behind the fixed margin of the iris each vessel divides into an upper and a lower branch, and these anastomosing Avith the corre- sponding vessels of the opposite side and with the anterior ciliary, form a vascular ring {circulus major) in the ciliary muscle. From this circle smaller branches arise to supply the muscle; whilst others converge towards the pupil, and there, freely com- municating by transverse offsets from one to another, form a second circle of anasto- mosis {circulus minor), and end in small veins. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, but smaller than the vessels just described, are supplied from the muscular and lachrymal branches of the ophthal- mic artery, and pierce the sclerotic about a line behind the margin of the cornea; finally, they divide into branches which supply the ciliary processes, and join the circulus major. Besides these special arteries, numerous minute vessels enter the iris from the ciliary processes. The veins of the iris follow closely the arrangement of the arteries just described. The circular sinus communicates with this system of vessels. 3 B 2