MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE NOSE. 775 and sphenoidal sinuses, and in the ethmoidal cells, the mucous lining mem- brane, being very thin and pale, contrasts strongly with that which occupies the nasal fossse. Fig. 533. Fig. 533.—Outer Wall of the Left Nasal Fossa, covered by the Pituitary Membrane (from Arnold). | 1, frontal bone ; 2, left nasal bone ; 3, superior maxillary ; 4, body of the sphenoid with the sphenoidal sinus ; 5, projection of the membrane covering the upper spongy bone ; 6, that of the middle ; 7, that of the lower ; the upper, middle, and lower meatuses are seen below the corresponding spongy bones ; 8, opening of the Eustachian tube; 9, depression of the lining membrane of the nose in the anterior palatine canal. In respect of the characters of the mucous membrane, three regions ot the nasal fossse may be distinguished. Thus, the region of the nostrils, including all the part which is roofed by the nasal cartilages, is lined with stratified squamous epithelium ; the remainder of the fossse is divisible into two parts, viz., the olfactory region in which the epithelium is nonci- Fig. 534.—Vertical Section op a small portion of Fig. 534. THE Membrane op the Nose from the Olfactory Region (from Ecker). i2 a, coloured part of the epithelium ; a', nuclei ; 5, deeper part containing the olfactory cells and fila- ments ; c, connective tissue of the mucous membrane; d, one of the mucous glands ; d', its duct ; e, twig of the olfactory nerve; e', small twig passing to the surface. liated and columnar, and the respiratory region in which it is ciliated and columnar. The membrane in the respiratory part, con- sisting of the inferior turbinated and all the lower portions of the fossse, is studded with nu- merous mucous glands, which are of branched aciuated appearance, and open by apparent orifices on the surface. These are most numerous about the middle and hinder parts of the nasal fosspe, and are largest at the back of the septum near the floor of the nasal cavity. They are much smaller and