Fig. 416. PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. THE Nerves op the Eighth Pair 619 Fig. 416.—Diagram of the Roots by the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, and afterwards, similarly between that vein and the common carotid artery, being enclosed along with them in the sheath of the vessels. As they enter the thorax the nerves of the right and left side present some points of difference. AND Anastomosing Branches op AND Neighbouring Nerves (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Le- veillej. 1, facial nerve ; 2, glosso-pharyn- geal with the petrous ganglion repre- sented ; 2', connection of the digastric branch of the facial nerve with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 3, pneu- mo-gastric, with both its ganglia re- presented ; 4, spinal accessory; 5, hypoglossal ; 6, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; 7, loop of union between the two first cervical nerves; 8, carotid branch of the sym- pathetic ; 9, nerve of Jacobson (tym- panic), given off from the petrous ganglion ; 10, its filaments to the sympathetic; 11, twig to the Eusta- chian tube; 12, twig to the fenestra ovalis ; 13, twig to the fenestra ro- tunda ; 14, twig of union with the small superficial petrosal; 15, twig of union with the large superficial petro- sal ; 16, otic ganglion ; 17, branch of the jugular fossa, giving a filament to the petrous ganglion ; 18, union of the spinal accessory with the pneu- mo-gastric ; 19, union of the hypo- glossal with the first cervical nerve; 20, union between the sterno-mastoid branch of the spinal accessory and that of the second cervical nerve; 21, pharyngeal plexus ; 22, superior laryngeal nerve; 23, external laryngeal; 24, middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. On the right side the nerve crosses over the first part of the right sub- clavian artery, at the root of the neck, and its recurrent laryngeal branch turns backwards and upwards round that vessel. The nerve then enters the thorax behind the right innominate vein, and descends on the side of the trachea to the back of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in the pos- terior pulmonary plexus. It emerges from this plexus in the form of two cords, which are directed to the oesophagus, and uniting and subdividing form, with similar branches of the nerve of the left side, the oesophageal plexus. Near the lower part of the oesophagus the branches, which have thus interchanged fibres with the nerve of the left side, are gathered again into a single trunk, which, descending on the back of the oesophagus, is spread out on the posterior or inferior surface of the stomach. On the left side the pneumo-gastric nerve, entering the thorax between the left carotid and subclavian arteries and behind the left innominate vein, lies further forwards than the right nerve, and crosses over the arch of the aorta, while its recurrent laryngeal branch turns up behind the arch. It s s 2