592 THE CKANIAL NERVES. OLFACTORY NERVE. The olfactory or first cranial nerve, the special nerve of the sense of smell, is distributed exclusively to the nasal fossfe. From the under surface of the olfactory bulb about twenty branches proceed through the holes in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, each invested by tubular prolongations of the membranes of the brain. These tubes of membrane vary in the extent to which they are continued on the branches : the offsets of the dura mater sheathe the filaments, and join the periosteum lining the nose ; those of the pia mater become blended with the neurilemma of the nerves ; and those of the arachnoid re-ascend to the serous lining of the skull. Fig. 401. Fig. 401.—Distribution of the Olfactory Nerves on the Septum of the Nose (from Sappey after Hii'schfeld and Leveille). | The septum is exposed and the anterior palatine canal opened on the right side. I, placed above, points to the olfactory bulb, and the remaining roman numbers to the roots of the several cranial nerves ; 1, the small olfactory nerves as they pass through the cribriform plate ; 2, internal or septal twig of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; 3, naso-palatine nerves. (See Fig. 409 for a view of the distribution of the olfactory nerves on the outer wall of the nasal fossa.) The branches are arranged in three sets. Those of the inner set, lodged for some distance in grooves on the surface of the bone, ramify in the pituitary membrane of the septum ; the outer set extend to the upper two spongy bones, and the plane surface of the ethmoid bone in front of these ; and the middle set, which are very short, are confined to the roof of the nose. The distri- bution of the olfactory nerve is confined to the upper part of the nasal fossa ; none of the branches reach the lower spongy bone.—(See Anatomy of the JSbse.) OPTIC NERVE. The optic or second cranial nerve, the nerve of vision, extending from . the optic commissure, becomes more cylindrical and firm as it diverges from its fellow and enters the orbit by the optic foramen. Within the orbit it forms a cylindrical trunk, thick and strong, with a uniform surface. On dis-