FORM OF THE LTVET? 863 from right to left, between six and seven inches from its posterior to its anterior border, and about three and a half inches from above downwards at its thickest part, which is towards the right and posterior portion of the Fig. 604.—Sketch op the Under Surface of the Liver. ~ The anterior border is turned upwards, and the blood-vessels and ducts have been removed : 1, the right lobe ; 2, the left lobe ; 3, 4, the longitudinal fissure ; 3, its umbilical part; 4, part con- taining the ductus venosus ; 5, transverse or portal fissure ; 6, lobulus quadratus ; 7, lobulus Spigelii ; 8, lobulus caudatus ; 9, fissure or fossa of the vena cava ; 10, the gall bladder in its Fis. 604. gland. The average bulk, according to Krause, is eighty-eight cubic inches ; according to Beale, one hundred. The ordinary weight in the adult is stated to be between three and four pounds, or more precisely from fifty to sixty ounces avoirdupois. According to the facts recorded by Eeid, the liver weighed, in 43 cases out of 82, between 48 and 58 ounces in the adult male; and in 17 cases out of 36, its weight in the adult female ranged between 40 and 50 ounces. It is generally estimated to be equal to about l-36th of the weight of the whole body; but in the foetus, and in early life, its proportionate weight is greater. (Reid, in Lond. and Edin. Monthly Journal of Med. Science, April, 1843.) The specific gravity of the liver, according to Krause and others, is between 1'0.5 and I'OS : in fatty degeneration this is reduced to 1"03, or even less. The parenchyma of the liver has an acid reaction (Kolliker). Beale gives the following results of his analysis of the liver of a healthy man, wh) was killed by a fall. Water 68-58 Solid matters 31-42 Fatty matters .3-82 Albumen ........ 4-67 Extractive matters 5-40 Alkaline salts 1-17 Vessels, &c. insoluble in water .... 16-03 Earthy salts -33 100 00 The liver is a solid organ, of a dull reddish-brown colour, with fre- quently a dark-purplish tinge along the margin. It has an upper smooth and convex surface, and an under surface which is uneven and concave ; the circumference is thick and rounded posteriorly and towards the right extremity, but becomes gradually thinner towards the left and in front, where it forms the sharp anterior and lefd lateral margins. The upper surface is convex, smooth, and covered with peritoneum. It is marked oflf into a right portion, large and convex, and a left portion.