Fig. 467. Fig. 467.—Lateral View of THE EYE. 722 of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve, and pour their contents ophtlialmic artery pierce tlie sclerotic close to the optic nerve, and divide into branches which pass forward in meridional directions in. the choroid membrane. Communicating freely they diminish in size, and entering the choroid form a close net-work of fine capillaries {tunica Buyscliiana) already described. THE ArTERIKS of THE CHO- ROID AND Iris (from Ar- nold), f a, optic nerve; 6, part of the sclerotic left behind, the greater part and the cornea having been removed ante- riorly ; c, ciliary muscle ; c?, iris ; 1, posterior ciliary ar- teries piercing the sclerotic and passing along the cboroid ; 2, one of the long posterior ciliary arteries; B, several of the short or anterior ciliary arteries. The veins of the choroid coat constitute an outer layer, partially separable from the arterial net-work, and easily recognised by the direction of the larger vessels. These converge to four nearly equidistant trunks, which pass through the sclerotic about half way between the margin Fig. 468.—Lateral View of THE Veins of the Choroid (from Arnold). The preparation is similar to that repi-esented in the pre- vious figure. 1, 1, two trunks of the vense vorticosae at the place where they leave the choroid and pierce the sclerotic coat. into the ophthalmic vein. From their whorl-like arrangement they are known as the vasa vorticosa. The blood-vessels of the ciliary processes are very numerous, and are derived from the anterior ciliary, and from those of the fore part of the choroidal membrane. Several small arterial branches enter the outer part of each ciliary process, at first running parallel to each other and communicating sparingly. As they enter the promiuent folded portion, the vessels become tortuous, sub- divide minutely, and inosculate frequently by cross branches. Finally they form short arches or loops, and turn backwards to pour their contents into the radicles of the veins. On the free border of the fold, one artery, larger than the rest, extends