776 THE NOSE. less numerous in the membrane lining the several cavities which communi- cate with the nasal fossse. The olfactory region or that in which the olfactory nerve is distributed, includes the upper and middle turbinated parts, and the upper portion of the septum. Its mucous membrane is thicker and more delicate in consistence than that of the ciliated region, being soft and pulpy. The columnar cells on its surface are prolonged at their deep extremities into threads which have been observed to communicate with stellate cells of the connective tissue. Beneath the columnar cells is a considerable thick- ness of densely nucleated tissue, compared by Henle to the cortical brain substance. The glands of this region are numerous ; but are of a more simple structure than those in the lower part of the fossse. Fig. 535. Fig. 535.^—Cells and Terminal Nerve-fibees OF the Olfactory Region (from Frey after Schultze). 1, from tlie frog; 2, from man; a, epithelial cell, extending deeply into a ramified process ; b, olfactory cells ; c, their peripheral rods; e, their extremities, seen in 1 to be prolonged into ciliary hairs ; d, their central filaments; 3, olfactory nerve-fibres from the dog; a, the division into fine fibrillse. Olfactory Cells.—Intermixed with the columnar epithelial cells of the olfactory region, and so numerous as to surround each of them, are certain peculiar bodies, each consisting of a spindle-shaped nucleated cell, from which proceed a superficial and a deep process. The superficial process is a cylindrical or slightly tapering thread passing directly to the surface, and terminating abruptly at the same level as the epithelial cells between which it lies : the deep process is more slender, and passes vertically inwards. Both processes frequently pre- sent a beaded appearance similar to that observed in fine nerve-filaments, and considered to be of a similar accidental origin. It was suggested by Max Schultze, the discoverer of the olfactory cells, and is highly probable, that the deep processes are directly continuous with the filaments of the olfactory nerve, but the continuity does not appear to have been actually observed. The superficial process of the olfactory cell was observed by Schultze to be sur- mounted by a short stiff hair-like process, and has been so described by others; but both the discoverer and others are now agreed that this appearance results from the coagulation of albumen escaped from the interior of the process. Long and fine hair- like processes do, however, exist on the olfactory membranes of amphibia, reptiles, and birds, and had been previously pointed out by Schultze. Olfactory Nerve.—The filaments of this nerve, lodged at first in grooves on the surface of the bone, enter obliquely the substance of the Schneiderian membrane, and pass to their distribution between its mucous and fibrous layers. The nerves of the septum are rather larger than those of the outer wall of the nasal fossse ; they, extend over the upper third of the septum,