711 THE EYEBALL. THE SCLEROTIC COAT. The eyeball, when viewed in profile, is fouud to be composed of segments of two spheres, of which the anterior is the smaller and more prominent : the segment of the larger posterior opaque sphere corresponds with the limit of the sclerotic coat, and the translucent portion of the smaller sphere with that of the cornea. From before backwards the ball measures about nine-tenths of an inch, and its transverse diameter exceeds this measurement by about a line. Except when directed towards near objects, the axes of the eyes are nearly parallel ; the optic nerves, on the contrary, diverge considerably from one another, and each nerve enters the corresponding eye about a tenth of an inch to the inner or nasal side of the axis of the globe. The eyeball is composed of several investing membranes, concentrically arranged, and of certain fluid and solid parts contained within them. The membranes are three in number, with the following designations and general structure :—An external fibrous covering, named sclerotic and cornea ; a middle vascular, pigmentary, and in part also muscular membrane, the choroid and the iris ; and an internal nervous stratum, the retina. The enclosed refracting media, three in number, are the aqueous humour, the vitreous body, and the lens with its capside. Around the eye-ball there is an adventitious tunic of fascia, tunica vaginalis oculi, or capsule of Tenon, which is perforated by the tendons of the recti and obliqui muscles, and connected with the sclerotic by merely the ^ most delicate connective tissue. This capsule separates the eye-ball from the orbital fat, and enables it to glide freely in its movements. (See, for details, Richet, Traite d'Anatomie Medico-Chirurgicale ; and O'Feriall, in Dublin Quart. Jo urn. Med. Science, July, 1841.) EXTERNAL COAT OF THE EYEBALL. The external investing membrane, which forms a complete covering for the ball, consists of two parts of different appearance and structure. Of theise the hinder part, much the largest, is opaque and densely fibrous, and is named the sclerotic coat, while the anterior smaller segment is transparent, and is named the cornea. THE SCLEROTIC COAT. The sclerotic (cornea opaea), the tunic of the eye on which the mainte- nance of the form of the greater part of the organ chiefly depends, is a strong, opaque, unyielding, fibrous structure. The membrane covers abaut five-sixths of the eye-ball, and is pierced behind by the optic nerve. The outer surface is white and smooth, except where the tendons of the recti and obliqui muscles are inserted into it. The inner surface is * of a light brown colour, and rough from the presence of a delicate connective tissue {memhrana fasca), through which branches of the ciliary vessels and nerves cross obliquely. The sclerotic is thickest at the back part of the eye, and thinnest at about a quarter of an inch from the cornea : at the junction with the cornea, it is again somewhat thickened. The optic nerve pierces this coat about one-tenth of an inch internal to the axis of the ball, and the opening is somewhat smaller at the inner than at the outer surface of the coat. The fibrous sheath of the nerve, together with the membranous processes which separate the funiculi of its fibres, blend with the sclerotic at the margin of the aperture : in consequence of this arrangement, when the nerve is cut off