THE CEREBELLUM. 528 Microscopic Structure.—'The cortical grey matter which covers the foliated surface of the cerebellum is made up of the following elements, viz. : 1. Pellucid cells of considerable size. 2. Cells, for the most part of large size, and caudate, having the usual granular contents. These cells are imbedded in a finely granular matrix ; the greater number of those of the caudate kind have a pyriform shape, and are prolonged Fig. 360.—The Columns op the Fig. 360. Medulla Oblongata teaced UPWABDS into the CeREBELLUM AND Cerebrum (from Arnold). | a, part of the anterior column which ascends in the olivary column ; 6, decussating portion of the lateral column forming the pyramid and turned down ; c, olivary fasciculus ascending deeply through the pons ; d, olivary body ; e, restiform body; /, g, corpora quadrigemina ; c, h, i, the fillet ; h, the part which ascends to the cerebral peduncle; i, the part passing up to the corpora quadrigemina ; m, m', the trans- verse fibres of the pons divided : w, inferior peduncle of the cerebellum ; 0, septal fibres of the medulla oblongata ; q, fibres of the inferior peduncle continued into the laminse of the cerebellum; r, r, superior peduncle ; t, fasciculus teres ; w, thalamus ; corpus albicans. Fig. 361.—Minute Struc- ture OP THE Substance OP THE Cerebellum (from Kolliker). A, large \ cells from the grey cortical substance of the human cerebellum. 22? a, three large cells exhibit- ing granular contents and a nucleus ; 5, the internal pro- cesses seen in two of the cells ; c, d, two external pro- cesses running towards the surface from two of the cells, in the third cell one large process only is seen ; c', d\ ramified finer parts of these processes. B, course of the nerve- tubes at the surface of the cerebellum, magnified with a low power. a, nerve of the medullary substance ; &, nervous plexus of the substantia ferruginea ; c, border of that substance ; c?, fine fibres running out from the dark-bordered tubes into the superficial grey sub- stance. at their small end into a simple or branched appendage, and this process, as first remarked by Purkinje, is in most of them directed towards the surface of the cerebellum. 3. Small bodies like cell-nuclei densely aggregated without any inter- vening substance. These lie at some depth from the surface; according to Todd, Fig. 361.