FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 090 The developed vesicle has two coats, viz., an external vascular tunic, and an internal tunic named the ovi-capsule, which is lined with a cellular or epithelial layer, the menihrana granulosa. At first the ovum appears near the centre of the vesicle, while the latter is still very small, but, in the mature condition, it lies towards the internal surface of the ovi-capsule, im- bedded in the discus 'proligcrus, a small flattened heap of granular cells, continuous with the membrana granulosa. The ovum itself, first discovered in mammals by Baer, is a spherical body, very constant in size, being about —^-o-th of an inch in diameter ; it consists of a thick, colourless, and transparent envelope (zona pellucida), which surrounds the substance of the yelk. Within the yelk, v/hich is miade up of granular matter, is situated a still smaller vesicular body, named the (jerminal vesicle, which is about y^oth of an inch in diameter ; and in this again is an opaque spot, having a diameter only of ^^jjjoth to o-d^Q^ih. of an inch, and named the germinal spot (macula germinativa). The ova make their appearance in the ovary at so early a period that even at the time of birth it has been found too late to observe their mode of origin. It has been ascertained that the ovum makes its appearance before the ovisac, and that the germinal vesicle is the first part of the ovum to be formed, the granular substance of the yelk being gradually deposited round it. Around the ovum a circle of cells becomes visible, grows thicker, and divides into two layers, the outer of which becomes the membrana granulosa, while the inner adheres to the ovum, forming the discus proli- gerus. The precise nature and mode of origin of the inner tunic of the Graafian vesicle is matter of dispute, and indeed Henle denies that there is any homogeneous membrane distinct from the outer cells of the membrana granulosa. According to Schron's observations on the cat, the ova make their first appearance near the surface of the ovary, and the vesicles become deeper placed as they grow larger: it is only in the later stages of growth, when the great expansion of the vesicles presses aside the surrounding tissues, that they are again brought into con- tact Avith the surface. From observations by Grijhe it appears that the process is similar in the human ovary. A beaded arrangement of the ova, as if developed in anastomosing primitive gland tubes, has been observed by Valentin in the ovaries of young animals, and more recently by Pfluger in the adult cat. Spiegelberg finds similar appearances in the human foetus. But the existence of such tubular glandular structure and its relation to the commencing ova is still under discussion, and requires farther observation for its determination. Fig. 689. Fig- 689.—Ovcjm op the Sow removed prom the Graafian Vesicle, with its cellular covEiiiNa (from M. Barry), i'-f 1, germinal spot or nucleus : 2, germinal vesicle ; 3, the yelk ; 4, the zona pellucida or external covering of the ovum ; 5, part of the tunica granulosa or proligerous disc ; ti, some adherent granules or cells. The Graafian vesicle, as it becomes more fully dilated, approaches the surface of the ovary. By rupture of the vesicle the ovum, covered by the cells of its proligerous disc, escapes into the Fallopian tube, and is thus conveyed into the womb, while the ruptured vesicle becomes converted, by hypertrophy of its walls, into a yellow mass named corpus luteum, which after persisting for a time, dwindles down into a small fibrous cicatrix.