THE LARYNX. M2 inferior, and are arched in form. Bounded by the superior and inferior vocal cords are two deep oval depressions, one on each side of the glottis, named the sinuses, or ventricles, of the larynx ; and leading upwards from the anterior parts of these depressions, external to the superior vocal cords, are two small culs-de sac, named the laryngeal pouches or sacculi. Fig. 637.—Perspi^ctive View of the Pharyngeal Opening into the La- rynx FROM above and BEHIND. The superior aperture has been much dilated ; the glottis is in a moderately dilated condition ; the wall of the pha- rynx is opened from behind and turned to the two sides. 1, body of the hyoid bone ; 2, small cornua ; 3, great cornua ; 4, upper and lower cornua of the thyroid cartilage ; 5, membrane of the pharynx covering the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage ; 6, upper part of the gullet ; 7, membranous part of the trachea ; 8, projection caused by the cartilage of Santoi-ini; 9, the same be- longing to the cartilage of Wrisberg ; 10, aryteno-epiglottidean fold ; 11, cut mar- gin of the wall of the pharynx ; a, free part of the epiglottis; a', its lower pointed part; a", the cushion; b, eminence on each side over the sacculus or pouch of the larynx ; 6', the ventricles ; c, the glottis : the lines on each side point to the margins or vocal cords. The superior vocal cords, also called the false vocal cords, because they are not immediately concerned in the production of the voice, are two folds of mucous membrane, each of which forms a free cres- centic margin, bounding the cor- responding ventricle of the larynx, the hollow of which is seen on looking down into the laryngeal cavity, from the superior vocal cords being separated farther from each other than the inferior cords. The inferior or true vocal cords, the structures by the vibration of which the sounds of the voice are produced, occupy the two anterior thirds of the aperture of the glottis. These cords are not mere folds of mucous mem- brane, but are strengthened near their free margins by the elastic thyro- arytenoid ligaments, and further out by the thyro-arytenoid muscles. The mucous membrane covering them is so thin and closely adherent as to show the light colour of the ligaments through it. Their free edges, which are sharp and straight, and directed upwards, form the lower boundaries of the ventricles, and are the parts thrown i nto vibration during the pro- duction of the voice. Their inner surfaces are flattened, and look towards each other. The rima gloUidis, an elongated aperture, situated, anteriorly, between the inferior or true vocal cords, and, posteriorly, between the bases of the arytenoid cartilages, forms when nearly closed a long narrow slit, slightly