THE THALAMI OPTICT. 551 and rest on the corresponding cerebral crui-a, which they in a manner embrace. On the outer side each thalamus is bounded by the corpus striatum and taenia semicircularis. The upper surface, which is white, is free and prominent, and is partly seen in the lateral ventricle, and partly covered by the fornix. The part which is seen in the lateral ventricle is more elevated than the rest, and is named the anterior tubercle. The posterior surface, which is also white and free, projects into the descending Fig. 376. Fig. 376.—Right half op the Encephalic Peduncle and Cerebellum as seen from THE INSIDE IN A MEDIAN Seotion (after Roichert). TI, right optic nerve ; 11', optic commissure divided ; III, right third nerve ; VI, sixth nerve; V3, third ventricle; Th, back part of the thalamus opticus; H, section of the pituitary body ; A, corpus albicans ; P, pineal gland ; c a, points by a lower line to the anterior commissure divided, and by an upper liae to the divided anterior pillar of the fornix ; Ic, lamina cinerea ; i, infandibulum (cavity); tc, tuber cinereum ; /, mark of the anterior pillar of the foraix descending in the wall of the third ventricle ; cm, commissara mollis; sp, stria pinealis ; cp, posterior commissure, above it the peduncle of the pineal gland, and below it the upper end of the passage to the fourth ventricle ; Q, corpora quadrigemina (section) ; as, aqueduct of Sylvius near the fourth ventricle; PV, pons Varolii divided in the middle; M, medulla oblongata; p a, right anterior pyramid ; p d, decussating bands cut across ; pp, posterior pyramids ; c, central canal with grey substance surrounding it divided. In the cerebellum, a v, stem, of white substance in the centre of the middle lobe of the cerebellum, ramifying towards the arbor vit^ ; s v, superior vermiform process or vertical portion of the middle lobe ; s c, single folium, which passes across between the posterior superior lobes ; c', the folia, which unite the posterior inferior lobes ; p, pyramid; u, uvula; n, nodule ; 1, part of the laminae of the square lobe; 2, posterior superior lobe ; 3, posterior inferior lobe ; 4, lobulus gracilis ; 5, biventral lobe ; 6, amygdaloid lobe. cornu of the lateral ventricle. The inner sides of the two thalami are in contact one with the other. They present the grey substance of the inte- rior of the thalami uncovered with white, and are generally partially united together by a transverse portion, which forms the middle or soft commissure of the third ventricle.