THE LUXGS. 904 from the pneumogastric nerves, joined by others from the sympathetic system. The fine nervous cords enter at the root of the Inng, and follow the air-tubes. Their final distribution requires further examination. Accord- ing to Eemak, whitish filaments from the par vagum follow the bronchia as far nearly as the surface of the lung, and greyish filaments, proceeding from the sympathetic, and having very minute ganglia upon them in their course, pass both to the bronchia and pleura. Julius Arnold has discovered remarkable bell-shaped ganglionic corpuscles terminating the pulmonary nerves of the frog. (Yirchow's Archiv., vol sxviii. p. 453.) DEVELOPMENT OF THE LU>'GS AXD TKACHEA. The lungs first appear as two small protrusions upon the front of the oesophageal portion of the alimentary canal, completely hid by the rudimentary heart and liver. These primitive protrusions or tubercles are visible in the chick on the third day of incubation, and in the embryos of mammalia and of man at a corresponding stage of advancement. Their internal cavities communicate with the oesophagus, and are lined by a prolongation of its inner layer. At a later period they are connected with the oesophagus by means of a long pedicle, which ultimately forms the trachea, whilst the bronchia and air-cells are developed by the progressive ramification of the internal cavity in the form of cascal tubes, after the manner of the ducts of glands. Ac- cording to Kolliker, the human lung in the latter half of the second month, presents a granular appearance on the surface, produced by the primitive air-cells placed at the extremities of ramified tubes, which occupy the whole of the interior of the organ ; the ramification of the bronchial twigs and multiplication of air-cells goes on in- creasing, and this to such an extent that the air-cells in the fifth month are only hah the size of those which are found in the fourth month. Fig. 633. Fig. 633.—Sketch iLLrsiRATixG the Deve- lopment OF THE KeSPIKATORY OrGAKS (from Rathke.) A, oesophagus of a chick, on the fourth day of incubation, with the rudimentary lung of the left side, seen laterally ; 1, the front, and 2, the back of the oesophagus ; 3, rudimentary lung protruding from that tube; 4, stomach. B, the same seen in front, so as to show both lungs. C, tongue and respiratory organs of embryo of the horse; 1, tongue; 2, larynx; 3, trachea; 4, lungs seen from behind. For a long time the lungs are veiy small, and occupy only a limited space at the back part of the chest. In an embryo, 16 lines in length, their proportionate weight to the body was found by Meckel to be 1 to 25; in another, 29 lines long, it was 1 to 2" ; in another 4 inches in length, 1 to 41; and at the full period, 1 to 70. Huschke found that the lungs of still-born male children were heavier in proportion to the weight of the body than those of female children; the ratio being, amongst females, 1 to 76, and in males, 1 to 55. Chaxges after birth.—The lungs undergo very rapid and remarkable changes after birth, in consequence of the commencement of respiration : these afiect their size, position, form, consistence, texture, colour, and weight, and should be carefully studied, as furnishing the only means of distinguishing between a still-born child and one that has respired. 1. Position, size, and form.—In a foetus at the full period, or in a still-born child, the lungs, comparatively small, lie packed at the back of the thorax, and do not entirely cover the sides of the pericardium; subsequently to respiration, they expand, and com- pletely cover the plem-al portions of that sac, and are also in contact with almost the