ANTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE DORSAL NERVES. 655 Tlie branches of the interosseous nerve enter the surrounding muscles, viz., the extensor carpi radialis brevior and supinator brevis, the superficial layer of the extensor muscles except the anconeus, and the deep layer of the same muscles :—that is to say, the nerve supplies the supinators, and the extensors of the carpus and fingers, with the exception of the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior. Summary of the Musculo-spiral Nerve. The trunk of the nerve distributes its branches to the extensor muscles of the elbow-joint exclusively, with the exception of a filament to the brachialis anticus, which however receives its principal nerves from another source. Before separating into its two large divisions, the nerve gives branches to two muscles of the forearm, viz., the long supinator, and the long radial extensor of the carpus. The posterior interosseous division distri- butes nerves to the remaining muscles on the outer and back part of the forearm, except the anconeus (previously supplied), viz., to the short supinator and the extensors. Cutaneous nerves are distributed, from the trunk of the nerve and its radial division, to the lower part of the upper arm, to the forearm, and to the hand—on the posterior and outer aspect of each. ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE DORSAL NERVES. These nerves are twelve in number, and, with the exception of the larger part of the first of them, which joins the brachial plexus, they are dis- tributed to the walls of the thorax and abdomen. Eleven of the nerves so distributed are termed intercostal, and the twelfth is situated below the last rib. The cords connecting them with the sympathetic nerve, placed close to the vertebrae, are very short. The anterior divisions of these nerves pass separately to their destination, without forming any plexus by the connection or interlacement of their fibres, and in this respect they differ from those of the other spinal nerves. From the intervertebral foramina they are directed transversely across the trunk, and nearly parallel one to another. The upper six nerves, with the exception of the first, are confined to the parietes of the thorax ; while the lower six nerves are continued from the intercostal spaces to the muscles and integument of the anterior wall of the abdomen. FIRST DORSAL NERVE. The greater part of the anterior division of this nerve ascends over the neck of the first rib and the first intercostal artery to enter into the brachial plexus. The remaining portion of the nerve is continued as the Jirst inter- costal, a small branch which courses along the first intercostal space, in the manner of the other intercostal nerves, but has usually no lateral cutaneous branch, and may also want the anterior cutaneous. UPPER OR PECTORAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. In their course to the fore part of the chest, these nerves accompany the intercostal blood-vessels. After a short space they pass between the internal and external intercostal muscles, supplying them with twigs, and, about midway between the vertebrae and the sternum, give ofi' the lateral cutaneous branches. The nerves, greatly diminished, are now continued forwards amid the fibres of the internal intercostal muscles as far as the costal cartilages, where they come into contact with the pleura. In approaching