THE (ESOPHAGUS. 821 back of the fauces between the orifices of the two Eustachian tubes (KoUi- ker). In the part opposite the fauces, the mucous membrane exactly re- sembles that of the mouth. Lower down it becomes paler, and at the back of the larynx it forms several longitudinal folds or plic^. According to Henle, the epithelium upon the upper portion of the pharynx, as low down as a horizontal line level with the floor of the nares, is columnar and cili- ated ; but, below that point, it is squamous and destitute of cilia. THE (ESOPHAGUS. The cesophagm or gullet, the passage leading from the pharynx to the stomach, commences at the cricoid cartilage opposite the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra, and, descending along the front of the spine, passes through the diaphragm opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra, and there ends by opening into the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The length of the oesophagus is about nine or ten inches. It is of smaller diameter than any other division of the alimentary canal, its narrow- est part being at the commencement behind the cricoid cartilage ; it is also slightly constricted in passing through the diaphragm, but, below that, gradually widens into the stomach. The oesophagus is not quite straight in its direction, but presents three slight curvatures. One of these is an antero- posterior flexure, corresponding with that of the vertebral column in the neck and thorax. The other two are slight lateral curves ; for the oesophagus, commencing in the median line, inclines to the left side as it descends to the root of the neck ; thence to the fifth dorsal vertebra it gradually resumes the mesial position ; and finally, it deviates again to the left, at the same time coming forward towards the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm. In the lower cervical and upper dorsal region the oesophagus is applied to the anterior surface of the spine, being connected with it and with the longus colli muscle by loose areolar tissue ; but between it and the bodies of the upper dorsal vertebrae the thoracic duct ascends obliquely from right to left: its i'ower third is placed in front of the aorta. In the neck, the oesophagus I'es close behind the trachea, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves ascend in the angles between them ; on each side is the common carotid artery, and also a part of the thyroid body, but, as the oesophagus inclines to the left side, it is in more immediate connection with the left carotid. In the thorax, the oesophagus is successively covered in front by the lower part of the trachea, by the commencement of the left bronchus, and by the back of the pericardium. The aorta, except near the diaphragm, where the oesophagus is in front of the vessel, lies rather to the left, and the vena azygos to the right; the pneumogastric nerves descend in close contact with its sides, and form a plexus around it, the left nerve proceeding gradually to the front, and the right nerve retiring behind it. Lastly, the oesophagus, which is here placed in the interval between the two pleurae, comes partially in contact with both of those membranes. Structure.—The walls of the oesophagus are composed of three coats ; viz., an external or muscular, a middle or areolar, and an internal or mucous coat. Outside the muscular strata, there is a layer of fibrous tissue, with well marked elastic fibres, which is sometimes spoken of as a distinct coat. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal layer, and an internal circular layer. This twofold arrangement of th© muscular fibres