708 THE EYE. Structure of the conjunctiva.—The conjunctiva consists of the palpebral part, along with which may be grouped the plica semilunaris and caruncula lachrymalis, and of the ocular part or conjunctiva bulbi, in which may be distinguished the sclerotic and corneal portions : each of these several parts presents peculiar and distinctive characters. The epithelium is stratified and thick ; the cells of the superficial strata scaly, delicate, and each with a distinct nucleus. The palpebral portion of the conjunctiva is opaque and red, is thicker and more vascular than any other part of the membrane, and presents numerous fine papillae freely supplied with nerves. At the margins of the lids the palpebral conjunctiva enters the ducts of the Meibomian glands ; through the puncta lachrymalia it passes into the canaliculi, and is con- tinuous with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac ; and it is prolonged into the orifices of the ducts of the lachrymal gland. The sclerotic p>ortio7i of the conjunctiva, changing its character at the line of reflection from the eyelids, becomes thinner, and loses its papillary structure : it is loosely connected to the eyeball by submucous tissue. It is also transparent and nearly colourless, but a few scattered branches of blood- vessels are generally visible on it in the healthy condition, and under the influence of inflammatory congestion a copious network of vessels very irre- gularly disposed comes into view. This network is derived from the palpebral and lachrymal arteries. It may be easily made to glide loosely on the sur- face of the eyeball by pressing the eyelid against it. But another set of vessels likewise exists on the surface of the sclerotic, and may be brought into view by congestion. The position of this set is entirely sub-conjunc- tival, adherent to the sclerotic coat; they are less tortuous than the conjunc- tival set, and are derived from the muscular and anterior ciliary branches of the ophthalmic artery : they remain immoveable on pressure of the eyelid. They dip into the sclerotic near the cornea, and appear to unite with a more deeply connected minute network disposed in closely set straight lines, radiating from the margin of the cornea, and the gorged condition of which is well known to ophthalmic surgeons as characteristic of sclerotitis. The corneal conjunctiva consists almost entirely of epithelium, any under- lying membrane being extremely thin, transparent, and adherent to the anterior elastic layer of the cornea, in connection with which it will be again referred to. Vessels lie between it and the cornea, and form a circle of anastomotic capillary loops around the circumference. This plexus of vessels extends farther inwards in the foetus. A well developed network of lymphatics exists throughout the sclerotic and palpebral portions of the conjunctiva; but at the margin of the cornea a sudden diminution takes place in the size of the meshes and diameter of the vessels. Of the network referred to, only a narrow circle ith of an inch in diameter exists on the corneal conjunctiva, and this circle has a well defined inner margin within which no lym- phatics exist (Teichmann). The nerves in the membrane, as far as the cornea, seem to have the same arrange- ment as in the skin in general. In the submucous tissue of the eyelids there are small follicular glands spread over the whole surface of the conjunctiva palpebrarum, and in the vicinity of the reflection of the conjunctiva upon the eyeball a set of larger more complex glands of a racemose structure, somewhat similar to that of the lachrymal gland (Sappey, C. and W. Krause). Closed follicles have also been observed in the conjunctiva by Bruch, and, after him, by other observers.