791 STRUCTURE OF THE CEMENT. It is also found, on treatment with acid, that a very thin membrane called by KoUiker " cuticle of the enamel,"—and by Busk and Huxley *'Nasmyth's membrane" (atter its discoverer), entirely covers the enamel upon its outer surface. This membrane, which is calcified in the natural state, forms a protective covering to the enamel. Berzelius and Retzius say that a similar membrane also exists between the enamel and the dentine, but KoUiker has been unable to find any in that situation. c. The crusta petrosa or cement is the third substance which enters into the formation of the teeth. This is a layer of true bone, slightly modified in structure, and investing that part of the dentine which is not protected by the enamel. It covers the whole fang, towards the lower end of which it becomes gradually thicker, and is especially developed at the apex, and along the grooves of the compound fangs. Besides this, the calcified mem- brane or cuticle on the surface of the enamel has been regarded by various writers as a coating of cement in that situation, the representative of the coronal cement on the compound teeth of many herbivorous animals. As life advances, the cement generally becomes thicker, especially near the apex of the fang, where it sometimes blocks up the orifice leading into the pulp cavity. The crusta petrosa contains cells and canaliculi resembling those of bone ; they are placed lengthwise around the fang, and give ofl" minute radiated ramifications, which are often found to proceed from one side only of a cell, towards the periodontal surface (Tomes). In the deeper layers of the cement the fine canaliculi sometimes anastomose with some of the terminal tubules of the subjacent dentine. Where the cement is very thick it may contain vascular canals, analogous to the Haversian canals of bone. On the deciduous teeth the cement is thinner and contains fewer cells. It has been shown by Sharpey that perforating fibres, similar to those of ordinary bone, run abundantly through the cement. In chemical composition it resembles bone, and contains 30 per cent, of animal matter. The cement is, according to some, extremely sensitive at the neck of the tooth, if it be exposed by Fig. 550. Fig. 550.—Section of a Portion of the Dentine and Cement from the Middle of THE Root of an Incisor Tooth (from KoUiker). a, dental tubuli ramifying and terminating, some of them in tte interglobular spaces (b and c), which resemble somewhat bone lacunse ; d, inner layer of the cement with numerous closely set canaliculi; e, outer layer of cement; /, lacunse ; g, canaliculi.