883 FORM AND RELATIONS OF THE SPLEEN. the junction of tlie descending and horizontal portions of the duodenum, between three and four inches below the pylorus. The pancreatic duct, with its branches, is readily distinguished from the glandular substance, by the very white appearance of its thin fibrous walls. Its widest part, near the duodenum, is from 1 line to 1 ^ line in diameter, or nearly the size of an ordinary quill ; but it may be easily distended beyond that size. It is lined by a remarkably thin and smooth mucous membrane, which near the termination of the duct occasionally presents a few scattered follicles. Varieties.—Sometimes the pancreatic duct is double up to its point of entrance into the duodenum ; and a still farther deviation from the ordinary condition is not unfrequently observed, in which there is a supplementary duct, derived from the lesser pancreas or some part of the head of the gland, opening into the duodenum by a distinct orifice, at a distance of even one inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. It sometimes occurs that the pancreatic duct and the common bile duct open separately into the duodenum. Vessels and J^erves.—Like the salivary glands, the pancreas receives its blood- vessels at numerous points. Its arteries are derived from the splenic and from the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic and superior mesenteric. Its blood is returned by the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its lymphatics terminate in the lumbar vessels and glands. The nerves of the pancreas are derived from the solar plexus. Development.—In its origin and development, the pancreas altogether resembles the salivary glands. It appears a little earlier than these glands, in the form of a small bud from the left side of the intestinal tube, close to the commencing spleen. Secretion.—Like the saliva, the pancreatic juice is a clear colourless fluid, whicli has diffused in it a few microscopic corpuscles; it has an alkaline reaction, and coagulates in white flakes when heated. The coagulum is caused by the presence of an albuminoid s,uhsta,nce—pancreatin—which, like salivin, has the property of con- verting starch into sugar. The pancreatic juice contains likewise chlorides of sodium and potassium, and phosphates of lime, soda, and magnesia. It readily undergoes decomposition on exposure. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is a soft, highly vascular, and easily distensible organ, of a dark bluish or purplish grey colour. It is situated in the left hypochon- drium, at the cardiac end of the stomach, between that viscus and the dia- phragm, and is protected by the cartilages of the ribs. It is the largest of the structures termed ductless glands, and it is now generally admitted to be intimately connected with the process of sanguification, and is most pro- bably the seat of the formation of blood corpuscles. The shape of the spleen is irregular and somewhat variable : it forms a compressed oval mass, placed nearly vertically in the body, and having two faces, one external, convex, and free, which is turned to the left, the other internal and concave, which is directed to the right, and is applied to the cardiac end or great cul-de-sac of the stomach : it also presents an anterior sharper and a posterior blunter margin. The convex face of the spleen, smooth and covered by the peritoneum, is in contact with the under surface of the left side of the diaphragm, and corresponds with the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. The internal concave face is divided by a vertical fissure, named the liikis, into an anterior and posterior portion, both covered with peritoneum, continued round the bor- ders from, the convex surface. The anterior of these two portions is the larger, and is closely applied to the stomach ; the posterior is in apposition with the left pillar of the diaphragm and left suprarenal capsule. The anterior border of the spleen is thinner than the posterior, and is often 3 M 2