MALE OEGANS OF GENERATION 966 In other instances, the peritoneal process remains altogether pervious, and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is continuous with that of the peritoneum. In such a case of congenital defect, a portion of intestine or omentum may descend from the abdomen into the inguinal canal and scrotum, and constitute Avhat is named a congenital hernia. Lastly, one or both testes may remain permanently within the abdomen, or their descent may be delayed till after puberty, Avhen it may occasion serious disturbance, detention of the testes in the abdomen (cryptorchismus) is, in many instances, the accompaniment of arrested development of the glandular structure; it is, however, a peculiarity which is often present without impotence. In a few mammals, as the elephant, the testes remain permanently within the abdomen ; in a much larger number, as the rodentia, they only descend at each period of rut. The complete closure of the tunica vaginalis is peculiar to man, and may be considered as connected with his adaptation to the erect posture. 6. The tunica vaginalis.—This tunic forms a shut sac, the opposite walls of which, are in contact with each other. Like the serous membranes in general, of which it affords one of the simplest examples, it may be described as consisting of a visceral and a parietal portion. The visceral portion closely invests the greater part of the body of the testis, as well as the epididymis, between which parts it recedes in the form of a pouch (digital fossa), and lines their contiguous surfaces, and it adheres intimately to the Fig. 675.—The Left Tunica Vaginalis openkd, show- ing THE Testis, Epididy- mis, &c. p, p, the cut edges of the parietal tunica vaginalis drawn aside laterally, as well as above and below ; t, the body of the testicle ; e, the globus major of the epididymis; e', the globus minor, near which, /, a fold of the tunica vaginalis (or ligament) passes from the body of the testis to the side ; in the upper part of the figure the tunica vaginalis has been slightly dissected off at the place of its reflection on the cord to show v the vas deferens, and g, the organ of G-iraldes ; G-, the three small nodules of this organ enlarged about ten times, and showing the remains of tubular struc- ture within them. proper fibrous tunic of the gland. Along the pos- terior border of the gland, where the vessels and ducts enter or pass out, the serous coat, having been reflected, is wanting. The parietal or scrotal portion of the tunica vaginalis is more extensive than that which covers the body of the testis ; it reaches upwards, some- times for a considerable distance, upon the spermatic cord, extending some- what higher on the inner than on the outer side. It also reaches downwards Fig. 675.