THE CRANIAL NERVES. 616 portion of the temporal bone, and presents, successively, two ganglionic enlargements,—the jugular ganglion, and the petrous ganglion. After leaving the skull, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve appears between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein, and is directed downwards over the carotid artery and beneath the styloid process and the muscles con- nected with it, to the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Here, changing its direction, the nerve curves inwards to the tongue, on the stylo-pharyngeus and the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx, above the upper laryngeal nerve ; and, passing beneath the hyo glossus muscle, ends in branches for the pharynx, the tonsil, and the tongue. pliaryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric; 14, superior laryngeal branch; 15, twigs connected with the sympathetic ; 16, fasciculus of the spinal accessory prolonged with the pneumo-gastric. The jugular ganglion, the smaller of the two ganglia of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, is situated at the upper part of the osseous groove in which the nerve is laid during its passage through the jugular foramen. Its length is from half a line to a line, and the breadth from half to three fourths of a line. It is placed on the outer side of the trunk of the nerve, and involves only a part of the fibres,—a small fasciculus passing over the ganglion, and joining the nerve below it. The petrous ganglion is contained in a hollow in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone (receptaculum ganglioli petrosi), and measures about three lines in length. This ganglion includes all the fila- ments of the nerve, and resembles the gangliform enlargement of the facial nerve. From it arise the small branches by which the glosso-pharyngeal is connected with other nerves at the base of the skull : these are the tympanic nerve, and the branches which join the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic. CONNECTING BRANCHES, AND TYMPANIC BRANCH. From the petrous ganglion spring three small connecting filaments. One passes to the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, one to the upper ganglion of the sym- Fig. 414. Fig. 414.—Diagrammatic Sketch from behind of the koots of the Nerves op the Eighth Pair, with THEIR Ganglia and Communica- tions (from Bendz). A, part of the cerebellum above the fourth ventiicle; B, medulla oblon- gata ; C, posterior columns of the spinal cord ; 1, root of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 2, roots of the pneumo-gastric ; 3, 3, 3, roots of the spinal accessory, the uppermost number indicating the filaments intermediate between the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastric ; 4, jugular ganglion of the glosso-pha- ryngeal ; 5, petrous ganglion ; 6, tympanic branch ; 7, ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric; 8, auricu- lar branch ; 9, long ganglion on the trunk of the pneumo-gastric; 10, branch from the upper ganglion to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyn- geal ; 11, inner portion of the spinal accessory ; 12, outer portion; 13,