587 EOOTS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Kolliker concurs, state that the fibres may be traced more deeply to the floor of the fourth ventricle. 7. The seventh pair of nerves appear on each side at the posterior margin of the pons, between the middle and inferior peduncles of the cerebellum, and nearly in a line with the place of attachment of the fifth nerve. Deep origins.—The portio dura or facial nerve, placed a little nearer to the middle line than the portio mollis, may be traced to the medulla oblongata between the resti- form and olivary fasciculi, with both of which it is said to be connected. Some of its fibres are derived from the pons, Phillipeaux and Yulpian affirm that the fibres arise from the outer wall of the fourth ventricle, and that many of them decussate in its floor. Connected with the portio dura, and intermediate between it and the portio mollis, is a smaller white funiculus, first described by Wrisberg (portio inter duram et mollem). The roots of this accessory or intermediate portion are connected deeply with the lateral column of the cord. The portio rtiollis, or auditory nerve, rises from the floor of the fourth ventricle, at the back of the medulla oblongata, in which situation, as already described, trans- verse white striae are seen, which form the commencement of the nerve. These roots are connected with the grey matter, and some appear to come out of the median fissure. The nerve then turns round the restiform body, and becomes applied to the lower border of the pons, receiving accessions from the former of those parts, and according to some authors from the latter also. Foville says that the roots of the portio mollis are also connected by a thin layer on the under surface of the middle peduncle with the cortical substance of the cere- bellum ; also, with the small lobule named the flocculus; and with the grey matter at the borders of the calamus scriptorius. 8. The eighth nerve consists of three distinct portions. The uppermost portion is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; next to this, and lower down, is the par vagum or pneumo-gastric nerve consisting of a larger number of cords. The roots of both these nerves are attached superficially to the fore part of the restiform body. Still lower, is the spinal accessory nerve, which, ascending from the side of the spinal cord, enters the skull by the foramen magnum, and is associated with the pneumo-gastric nerve as it passes out through the foramen lacerum. The accessory nerve arises within the spinal canal from the lateral column of the cord, behind its middle, by a series of slender roots, which commence as low down as the fifth or sixth cervical nerve. The nerve passes upwards between the posterior roots of the cervical nerves and the ligamentum denticulatum,—the several funiculi of origin successively joining it as it ascends. On entering the skull, it receives faniculi from the side of the medulla oblongata. These three portions of the eighth pair are connected deeply with grey nuclei within the cord and medulla oblongata, as already described (see p. 521). 9. The ninth nerve (hypoglossal) arises, in a line continuous with that of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, by scattered funiculi from the furrow between the olivary body and the anterior pyramid. The roots of the ninth nerve are traced by Stilling to one of the grey nuclei already described in the medulla oblongata, and they are said by Kolliker to undergo partial decussation in the floor of the fourth ventricle. DISTRIBUTION OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Mode of exit from the cranium.—Each of the cranial nerves issues at first from the cranial cavity through a foramen or tubular prolongation of the dura mater : some of these nerves or their main divisions are contained Q Q 2