THE THYROID BODY. some oxide of iron. Matter (from Kolliker). £2 922 Fig. 646. a yeliow fluid, with corpuscles resembling cell-nuclei and sometimes nu- cleated cells floating in it. These vesicles are surrounded by capillary ves- sels, and are held together in groups or imperfect lobules by areolar tissue. Their size varies from ■83-x5*^i of an inch to that of a millet-seed, so as to be visible to the naked eye,—the size varying, however, in difierent individuals, more than in the same thyroid body. The vesicles are spherical, oblong, or flattened, and are perfectly distinct from each other ; the corpuscles withia them are in the foetus and young subject disposed in close apposition and like a single epithelial layer on the inner side of the vesicles, but for the most part detach themselves in the progress of growth. The fluid coagulates by the action of heat or of alcohol, preserving, however, its transparency. According to recent analyses, the substance of the thyroid body consists principally of albumen with traces of gelatine, stearine, oleine, and extractive matter, besides alkaline and earthy salts and water. The salts are chloride of sodium, a little alkaline sulphate, phosphates of potash, lime and magnesia, with Fig. 646.—Vesicles of the Thyroid Gland enlarged and containing colloid One of the most fre- quent pathological changes to which the thyroid body is subject consists in the accumulation within its ve- sicles of colloid substance: this may occur without giving rise to very great enlargement of these vesi- cles, but in certain forms of goitre it distends them to an enormous degree. Vessels.—The arteries of the thj-roid body (pp. 346 and 371) are the superior and inferior thyroids of each side, to which is sometimes added a fifth vessel named the lowest thyroid of Neubauer and Erdmann (p. 340). The arteries are remarkable for their large relative size, and for their frequent and large anastomoses; they terminate in a capillary network, upon the outside of the closed vesicles. The veins, which are equally large, ultimately form plexuses on the surface, from which a superior, middle, and inferior thyroid vein (pp. 453 and 460) are formed on each side. The superior and middle thyroid veins open into the internal jugular; the inferior veins emanate from a plexus formed in front of the trachea, and open on the right side into the superior cava, and on the left into the brachio-cephalic vein. The lymphatics of the thyroid body are extremely numerous and large, and are supposed to convey into the blood the products formed within the organ. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric, and from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Development.—Eemak states that the thyroid body is developed from the anterior wall of the pharynx. In a human embryo at the third month, Kolliker found the thyroid body consisting of isolated vesicles, Avith rounded cells in their interior. The multiplication of these vesicles takes place, according to Kolliker, either by constric- tion and subsequent division of one vesicle into two; or by a process of gemmation. The transverse part of the gland is said to be developed subsequently to the two lateral