THE CEREBRUM. 554 anterior tubercles are much larger than the posterior, as may be seen in the sheep, horse, and rabbit ; and hence the name nates, formerly applied to the anterior and testes to the posterior tubercles. In the brains of carnivora, the posterior tubercles are rather the larger. In the foetus of man and mammals these eminences are at first single on each side, and have an internal cavity communicating with the ventricles. They are constant in the brains of all vertebrate animals ; but in fishes, reptiles, and birds, in which animals they receive the name of optic lobes, they are only two in number, and hollow: in marsupialia and monotremata, they are also two in number, but are solid. Optic tracts and corpora geniculata.—The optic tracts, which have already been referred to in connection with the base of the cerebrum, are attached to and embrace the under side of the corresponding peduncles, and may be traced back to the thalami. Each tract, somewhat cylindrical towards the optic commissure, becomes flattened and broader as it approaches the thalamus, and makes a bend as it turns round the peduncle to reach the back part of that body. Near this bend, which is named the knee (genu), and to the outer side of the corpora quadrigemina, are placed two small oblong and flattened eminences connected with the posterior extremity of the optic tract. They are two little masses of grey matter about the size and shape of coffee beans, placed one on the outer and one on the inner side of the genu of the optic tract, and hence are named respectively corpus geniciilatum externum and internum. They send fibres into the optic tract and also into the thalamus of the same side. The fibres of the optic tracts are therefore derived from three sources, viz., the thalamus, the tubercula quadrigemina, and the corpora geniculata. The processus a cerebello ad cerebrum are two large white cords extending downwards and somewhat outwards from the corpora quadrigemina to the fore part of the cerebellum, and connecting the latter with the cerebrum. They rest upon the crura cerebri, to which they are united, and between them is the valve of Vieussens. The valve of Vieusseris (velum medullare anterius), stretched between the processus a cerebello ad cerebrum, is a thin layer of nervous matter, which lies over the passage from the third to the fourth ventricle, and, lower down, covers in a part of the fourth ventricle itself. It is narrow above, where it is connected with the quadrigeminal bodies, and broader below, where it is continuous with the median portion of the cerebellum. The upper portion of the valve is composed of white substance, but a few transverse ridges of grey matter extend upon its lower half, as if they were prolonged from the grey lamellae of the cerebellum with which the valve is there continuous. From between the posterior quadrigeminal tubercles a slight median ridge, named fr(Enulum, descends a little way upon the valve ; and on the sides of this the commencing fibres of the fourth pair of nerves pass transversely outwards. The back part of the valve is over- lapped and concealed by the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum. INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM. The cerebrum, like the rest of the encephalon, is composed of white and grey substance, the white pervading nearly the whole of its extent, though more exclu- sively composing its deeper parts; the grey forming a covering of some thickness over