807 papilltE of the tongue. circular furrow or trench, around wliicli again is an annular elevation of the mucous membrane, covered with the smaller papillae. The exposed surface of the papilljB vallatse is beset with numerous smaller papillae or filaments ; Fig. 564.—Vertical Section Fig. 56: OP THE CiRCUMVALLATE Papilla (from Kolliker). ^2 A, the papilla ; B, the sur- rounding wall; a, the epi- thelial covering; b, the nerves of the papilla and wall spread- ing towards the surface ; c, the secondary papilla. and in some of them there is found a central depres- sion, into which mucous follicles open. The middle-sized or fungiform papillae, more numerous than the last, are small rounded eminences scattered over the middle and fore part of the dorsum of the tongue; but they are found in great numbers and closer Fig. 565. Fig. 565.—Surface and Section of the Fungi- form Papillj3 (from KoUiker after Todd and Bowman). A, the surface of a fungiform papilla partially denuded of its epithelium, 2^; p, secondary papillse; g, epithelium. ^ B, section of a fungiform papilla with the bloodvessels injected. a, artery ; v, vein; c, capillary loops of simple papillse in the neigh- bouring structure of the tongue ; d, capillary loops of the secondary papillas ; e, epithelium. together at the apex and upon the bor- ders. They are easily distinguished in the living tongue by their deeper red colour. They are narrow at their point of attachment, but are gradually enlarged towards their free extremities, which are blunt and rounded, and are covered with smaller filamentous appendages or papillae. The smallest papillae, conical and fili- form, are the most numerous of all. They are minute, conical, tapering, or cylin- drical processes, which are densely packed over the greater part of the dorsum of the tongue, but towards the base gradually disappear. They are arranged in lines, which correspond at first with the oblique direction of the two ridges of the papillae vallatse, but gradually be- come transverse towards the tip of the tongue. At the sides they are longer and more filiform, and arranged in parallel rows, perpendicular to the border of the tongue. Considerable variety occurs in the appearance of the papillae on the tongues of different persons. Thus occasionally instances occur in which the tongue has a quite smooth appearance, and others are seen in which numbers of the filiform papillae are elongated into the appearance of short brown hairs, as shown in Fig. 566.