729 MULLERIAN FIBEES.—BLOOD-VESSELS OF EETINA. the Miillerian fibres is still incomplete. Indeed, the minuteness and delicacy of their structure renders their investigation one of the most difficult sub- jects of anatomical inquiry. Heinrich Miiller, to whom science chiefly owes the advance which has of late years been made towards the elucidation of the minute structure of the retina, described radiating fibres extending verti- cally from the rods and cones to the membrana limitans, interrupted in their course by the corpuscles of the outer and inner nuclear layers, and connected with the nerve cells. He subsequently recognised the vertical fibres in the internal layers as connective tissue,—a view now universally adopted. It appears to be clearly established, that from the pyriform cori)UScle at the base of each cone a thread passes inwards to a corpuscle of the internal nuclear layer. It is also stated that more slender threads unite the rods with the deep layers ; and Kolliker represents a thread passing out from a corpuscle of the internal nuclear layer as afterwards dividing into branches, on which are placed corpuscles of the external nuclear layer, and which terminate in rods. This account of the structure seems best to accord with the physio- logical view now very generally held, that the columnar layer is the more immediate seat of the formation of a distinct image in vision, and of the reception of visual impressions from rays of light impinging upon the retina. It is right to state, however, that a different view is taken by Henle, who believes that the rods are free, and that the fibres observed by H. Miiller and Kolliker are artificial products, the result of coagulation by re-agents. Henle regards the retina as composed of an outer part, which he terms the mosaic layer, and which comprises the columnar structures of Jacob's mem- brane, and the external nuclear layer, and is destitute of blood-vessels ; and an inner nervous part comparable to the structure found in the cerebral con- volutions, and consisting of a stratum of nerve fibres and of two strata of nerve cells alternating with granular strata ; the corpuscles of the internal nuclear layer being considered by him as nerve cells of a smaller order than those of the cellular layer. 6. Vessels of the retina.—An artery enters and a vein leaves the retina between the bundles of fibres of the optic nerve. The artery (arteria centralis retinse) is an offset of the ophthalmic, and divides into four or five primary branches as soon as it enters the eye-ball. These larger oflsets are situated at first on the inner surface of the nerve fibres, but they soon pass between these into the stratum of nerve-cells, where they form a network of very fine capillaries with rather wide meshes, which reaches in front to the ora serrata. The vein corresponding to this artery has a similar distribution: it termi- nates in the ophthalmic vein. In animals there is a circular vessel (circulus venosus retinse) following the line of the ora serrata. Constituents of the retina in the yellow spot.—In this part of the retind, the several layers above described undergo some modification : the following are the alterations in the strata from without inwards, viz. :—In the columnar layer, only the cones are present, but they are set close together and are smaller than elsewhere. The granular layer is absent opposite the fovea centralis. The nervous layer is thus modified : the nerve cells cover the whole spot, like laminated epithelium, and rest internally on the membrana limitans ; but the molecular substance outside them is absent over the fovea centralis ; the nerve fibres extend only into the circumference of the spot amongst the cells, without forming a layer over it. The fibres of Miiller are found at the circumference but not over the fovea centralis; they have an oblique, almost horizontal direction, and present a specially nerve-