THE IXTESTIXE. 556 to be marked all over by the orifices of numerous tubuli, resembling those of the stomach and the crypts of the small intestine. These follicles are arranged perpendicularly to the surface of the membrane ; they are longer and more numerous, and are placed more closely together and at more regular intervals than those of the small intestine. Their orifices are cir- cular, and, -when widened by the loss of their epithelial lining, they give the mucous membrane a cribriform aspect. Besides these, there are scattered over the surface of the whole large intestine numerous dosed follicles, similar to the solitary glands of the small intestine, but marked by a depression passing down, to them between the surrounding tubules (Kolliker). They are most abundant in the ceecum and in its vermiform appendix ; being placed closely all over the latter. The epithelium, which covers the general surface of the mucous mem- brane, and lines the tubuli and follicles, is of the columnar kind. Vessels and Nerves.—In the great intestine of the rabbit, Frey figures the same arrangement of capillary plexuses and venous radicles as has been described in the stomach. He finds also in the rabbit clavate lacteals in rudimentary villi. (Zeitsch. £ Wissensch. Zoologie, vol. xii.); but Teichmann's injections in the human subject show no absorbents more superficial than the bases of the tubular follicles. Is'ervous plexuses similar to those of the small intestine have also been found in the walls of the large intestine. THE RECXril. The lowest portion of the large intestine, named the rectum, extends from the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the anus, and is situated entirely within the true pelvis, in its back part. Commencing opposite to the left sacro-iliac articulation, it is directed at first obliquely downwards, and from left to right, to gain the middle line of the sacrum. It then changes its direction, and curves forwards in front of the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx, and behind the bladder, vesiculse seminales and prostate in the male, and at the back of the cervix uteri and vagina in the female. Opposite to the prostate it makes another turn, and inclines downwards and backwards to reach the anus. The iritestimim rectum, therefore, so called from its original description being derived from animals, is far from being straight in the human subject. Seen from the front, the upper part of the rectum presents a lateral inclination from the left to the median line of the pelvis, sometimes passing beyond the middle to the right; and when viewed from the side it ofiPers two curves, one corresponding with the hollow front of the sacrum and coccyx, and the other at the lower end of the bowel, forming a shorter turn in the opposite direction. Unlike the rest of the large intestine, the rectum is not sacculated, but is smooth and cylindrical ; and it has no separate longitudinal bands upon it. It is about six or eight inches in length ; and is rather narrower than the sigmoid flexure at its upper end, but becomes dilated into a large ampulla or reservoir, immediately above the anus. The upper part of the rectum is in contact in front with the back of the bladder (or uterus in the female), unless some convolutions of the small intestine happen to descend into the interval between them. This part is surrounded by peritoneum, which attaches it behind to the sacrum by a duplicature named the meso-rectura. Lower down, the peritoneum covers the intestine in front and at the sides, and at last its anterior surface only ;