J)EVELOPMENT OF URINAKY ORGANS. 994 dark oval masses, situated behind tlie upper part of the Wolffian bodies, which are Ktill large and completely hide the kidneys. Though at first smooth and oval, the kidneys soon assume their characteristic general outline, and about the tenth week are distinctly lobulated. The separate lobules, generally about fifteen in number, gradually coalesce in the manner already described; but at birth, indications of the original lobulated condition of the kidney are still visible on the surface, and the entire organ is more globular in its general figure than in the adult. The kidneys are then also situated lower down than in after-life. The formative blastema of the kidney, as observed by Rathke in the foetal calf, soon contains a series of club-shaped bodies which have their larger ends free and turned outwards, and their smaller ends or pedicles directed inwards towards the future hilus, where they are blended together. As the organ grows these bodies increase in number, and finally, becoming hollow, form the uriniferous tabes. At first, short, wide, and dilated at their extremities, the tubuli soon become elongated, narrow, and flexuous, occupying the whole mass of the kidney, which then appears to consist of cortical substance only. At a subsequent period, the tubuli nearest the hilus become straighter, and thus form the medullary substance. The tubuli, as shown by Valentin, are absolutely, as well as relatively, wider in the early stages of formation of the kidney. The Malpighian corpuscles have been seen by Kathke in a sheep's embryo, the kidneys of which measured only two and a half lines in length. With regard to the mode of the first appearance of the pelvis and ureter, the state- ments of embryologists are very conflicting. The ureters, it is stated by Rathke, commence after the kidneys, and then become connected with the hilus of each organ, und with the narrow ends of the club-shaped bodies in its interior. At first, according to him, the growing tubuli do not seem to communicate with the cavity of the ureter; but, subsequently, when the wide upper portion of this canal or pelvis of the kidney has become divided to form the future cal//ees, the pencil-like bundles of the tubuli open into each subdivision of the ureter, and give rise at a later period to the appearance of the pripillce and their numerous orifices. The lower ends of the ureters soon come to open into that part of the sac of the allantois which afterwards becomes converted into the bladder. The researches of MUller and BischofF are in general confirmatory of Rathke's account. Valentin believes that the ureter (which he has seen at the earliest periods), the pelvis of the kidney, and the uriniferous tubules are formed in a general blastema, independently of one another; and that, each part first becoming separately hollowed out, their cavities afterwards communicate with each other. BischofF states that the ureters appear at the same time as the kidneys, and are formed in continuity with the uriniferous tubules, and moreover that all these parts, which are at fir.st solid, are excavated, not separately, but in common, in the farther progress of development. Lastly, according to Remak's observations on the chick, the kidneys of that animal commence as two hollow projections from the cloaca, internal to the ducts of the Wolffian bodies, which afterwards elongate and ramify so as to form both the ureters and kidneys. In the advanced foetus and in the new-born infant, the kidneys are relatively larger than in the adult, the weight of both glands, compared with that of the body, being, according to Meckel, about one to eighty at birth. The Supra-renal Bodies.—These organs have their origin from blastema, inde- pendent both of the kidneys and the Wolfiian bodies. Valentin describes them as originating in a single mass, placed in front of the kidneys, and afterwards becoming divided. Meckel has also seen them partially blended together. JNl iiller has found the supra-renal bodies in contact, but not united. BischofF has always seen them separate, and in early conditions closely applied to the upper end of the Wolffian bodies, Kolliker has also observed them united by a bridge of substance, in which the splanchnic nerves were lost. From all this it is plain that the solar plexus and supra-renal capsules are closely united in the early foetal state; but it by no means follows that they have a common origin. In quadrupeds the supra-renal bodies are at all times smaller than the kidneys; but in the human embryo they are for a time larger than those organs, and quite conceal them. At about the tenth or twelfth week, the supra-renal bodies are smaller than the kidneys; at birth the proportion between them is 1 to 3, whilst in the adult it is about 1 to 22. They diminish in aged persons.