790 THE TEETH. clusters of the fibres down to the surface of the dentine ; and other much larger and more evident fissures are often observed leading down from the depressions or crevices between the cusps of the molar and premolar teeth. The surface of the enamel, especially in the milk-teeth, is marked by transverse ridges, which may be distinguished with a common magnifying glass. Fig. 549.—Enamel Fibres (from Kolliker). §p A, fragments and single fibres of the enamel, isolated by the action of hydrochloric acid. B, surface of a small fragment of enamel, showing the hexagonal ends of the fibres. The enamel fibres have the form of solid hexagonal prisms. Their dia- meter varies slightly, and is ordinarily about -j-^q o^'^ inch. They are marked at small intervals by dark transverse lines. According to Tomes, the fibre is not in all cases solid, but has occasionally an extremely minute cavity in part or in the whole of its length, which is best seen in newly- developed enamel, but is also visible in adult teeth. The inner ends of the prisms are implanted, as it were, into the minute hexagonal depressions found on the surface of the dentine, whilst the outer ends, somewhat larger in diameter, are free, and present, when examined with a high magnifying power, a tesselated appearance. When submitted to the action of dilute acids, the enamel is almost entirely dissolved, and leaves scarcely any discernible traces of animal matter. Near the deep surface this is rather more abundant, according to the observations of Retzius, who conceived that it there aided in fixing the enamel fibres. By the action of an acid, the enamel of newly-formed or still growing teeth may be broken up, and its structural elements more easily distinguished. The prisms are then found to have interposed between them a delicate membranous structure, forming sheaths in which the cal- careous matter is deposited. As this latter accumulates, the membranous structure becomes almost or entirely obliterated, and the now earthy prisms are inseparably consolidated. Each membranous sheath, according to Tomes, contains a line of granular cells or masses, arranged in single series like the sarcous elements in muscular fibres, and thus occasioning the transverse markings. Fig. 549. A