921 FORM AND STEUCTURE OF THE THYROID BODY. and sometimes called the corntt, is usually connected to the side of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages by areolar tissue. The transverse part, or isthmus, which connects the two lateral lobes to- gether a little above their lower ends, measures nearly half an inch in breadth, and from a quarter to three quarters of an inch in depth ; it com- monly lies across the third and fourth rings of the trachea, but is very inconstant in size, shape, and position, so that the portion of trachea which is covered by it is subject to corresponding variation. From the upj)er part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent portion of either lobe, but most frequently the left, a conical portion of the thyroid body, named, from its shape and position, the 'pyramid, or middle lobe, often proceeds upwards to the middle of the hyoid bone, to which its apex is attached by loose fibrous tissue. Commonly this process lies somewhat to the left ; occasionally it is thicker above than below, or is completely detached, or is split into two parts : sometimes it appears to consist of fibrous tissue only. In many cases, mus- cular fasciculi, most frequently derived from the thyro-hyoid muscle, but occasionally independent, descend from the hyoid bone to the thyroid gland or its pyramidal process. They are known as the levator glandulm thy- roideoB. It sometimes, though rarely, happens that the isthmus is alto- gether wanting, the lateral lobes being then connected by areolar or fibrous tissue only. The weight of the thyroid body varies ordinarily from one to two ounces. It is always larger in the female than in the male, and appears in many of the former to undergo a periodical increase about the time of menstruation. The thyroid body, moreover, is subject to much variation of size, and is, occasionally, the seat of enormous enlargement, constituting the disease called goitre. The colour of the thyroid body is usually of a dusky brownish red, but sometimes it presents a yellowish hue. Fig. 645.—Magnified View of Fig. 645. SEVfORAL Vesicles from the Thyroid Gland of a Child (from Kollilcer). m a, connective tissue between the vesicles ; b, capsule of the vesicles ; c, their epithelial lining. Structure.—The texture of this organ is firm, and to the naked eye appears coarsely granular. It is invested with a thin transparent layer of dense areolar tissue, which con- nects it with the adjacent parts, surrounds and supports the vessels as they enter it, and imperfectly separates its sub- stance into small masses of irregular form and size. The interstitial areolar tissue is free from fat, and contains elastic fibres. When the thyroid body is cut into, a yellow glairy fluid escapes from the divided substance, which is itself found to contain multitudes of closed vesicles, composed of a simple external capsular membrane, and containing