782 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. tooth the angh^s of which have been removed, so as to leave a single central point or cusp, whence the name cuspidate applied to these teeth. Fig. 539.—Canine Tooth op the Upper Jaw. a, front view ; 6, lateral view, showing the long fang grooved on the side. The point always becomes worn down by use. The fang of the canine teeth is single, conical, and com- pressed at the sides : it is longer than the fangs of any of the other teeth, and is so thick as to cause a corresponding prominence of the alveolar arch : on the sides it is marked by a groove, an indication, as it were, of the cleft or division which appears in the teeth next following. The upper canines, popularly called the eye-teeth^ are larger than the lower, and in consequence of this, as well as of the greater width of the upper range of incisors, they are thrown a little farther outwards than the lower canine teeth. In the dog- Fig, 540. Fig. 541. Fig. 540.—First Bicuspid Tooth of THE Upper and Lower Jaws. ct, front view ; b, lateral view, showing the lateral groove of the fang, and the tendency in the upjoer to division. Fig. 541.—First Molar Tooth of the Upper and Lower Jaws. They are viewed from the outer aspect. tribe, and in the carnivora gene- rally, these teeth acquire a great size, and are fitted for seizing and killing prey, and for gnawing and tearing it when used as food. The bicuspids (bicuspidati), also called premolars, are four in each jaw ; they are shorter and smaller than the canines, next to which they are placed, two on each side. The crown is compressed before and behind, its greater diameter being across the jaw. It is convex, not only on its outer or labial surface, like the preceding teeth, but on its inner surface also, which rises vertically from the gum : its free extremity is broader than that of an incisor or canine tooth, and is surmounted by two pointed tubercles or cusps, of which the external one is larger and higher than the other. The/an^ is also flattened, and is deeply grooved in all cases, showing a tendency to become double. The apex of the fang is generally bifid, and in the first upper bicuspid the root is often cleft for a considerable distance ; but the bicuspid teeth are very variable in this respect, and may be, all four, free from any trace of bifidity of the root. The upper bicuspids are larger than the lower ones, and their cups are more deeply divided. Sometimes the first lower bicuspid has only Fig. 539. h a