ANTERIOK THOEACIC—SUBSCAPULAR NEEVES. 645 Some differences will be found in the statements of anatomists who have investigated the subject—for instance, Scarpa Annotationes Anatom.") and Kronen- berg (" Plex. nervor. Structura et Virtutes")—with respect to the nerves to which the branches are assigned. This difference is mainly owing to the variation which actually exists in different cases. ANTERIOR THORACIC NERVES. * The anterior thoracic nerves, two in number, supply the pectoral muscles. The external, or more superficial branch, arising from the outer cord, crosses inwards over the axillary artery, and terminates in the great pectoral muscle. The internaly or deeper branch, springing from the inner cord, comes forwards between the axillary artery and vein to the small pectoral muscle, and is joined by a branch from the external. This nerve presents a plexi- form division beneath the small pectoral muscle, and supplies branches to it and the larger pectoral muscle. The two nerves are connected by a fila- ment which forms a loop over the artery at the inner side. SUBSCAPULAR NERVES. These nerves, three in number, take origin from the posterior cord of the plexus. The upper nerve, the smallest of the sub- scapular nerves, penetrates the upper part of the subscapular muscle. The lower nerve gives a branch to the subscapularis at its axillary border, and ends in the teres major muscle. There is sometimes a distinct nerve for the last-named muscle. The long subscapular nerve, the largest of the three, runs along the lower border of the sub- scapular muscle to the latissimus dorsi, to which it is distributed. Fig. 427.—Distribution op the Posterior Cutaneous Nerves of the Shoulder ani> Arm (from Hirschfeld and Leveill^). | 1, supra-acromial branches of the cervical nerves de- scending on the deltoid muscle ; 2, ascending or reflected, and 2', descending cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve ; 3, inferior external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 4, external and posterior cutaueous branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve to the forearm; 5, internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral; 6, intercosto-humeral branches ; 7, twigs of the nerve of Wrisberg; 8, upper posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve; 9, lower branch of the same. CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. The circumflex or axillary nerve gives both muscular and cutaneous nerves to the shoulder. Springing from the posterior cord, this nerve is at first placed behind the axillary artery, but at the lower border of the subscapular muscle it is inclined backwards with the posterior circumflex artery, in the space between the scapula and teres Fig. 427.