530 THE CEREBRUM. and prominent, and occupies the middle fossa of the skull—the edge of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone corresponding with the Sylvian fissure. Fig. 362. Fig. 862.—Upper Sur- face OP THE Brain SHOWING THE CONVO- LUTIONS (from R. Wag- ner). 1 This view was taken from the brain of a famous mathematician, Professor C. F. Grauss, who died in 1854, aged 78. It is selected as an example of a well- formed braia of the usual size with fully developed convolutions. a, superior or first frontal convolution ; a', second or middle frontal; a", third or inferior frontal; A, A, anterior ascending parietal con- volution ; B, B, pos- terior ascending parietal convolution ; h, first or upper parietal convolu- tion ; h\ second or mid- dle ; h", third or in- ferior ; c, first or upper temporal convolution ; d, first or upper occipi- tal convolution ; d', second or middle ; d'\ third or lower; /, the superior longitudinal fis- sure ; r, the fissure of Rolando ; p, the external perpendicular fissure. The posterior lobe is smooth and slightly concave on its under surface, where it rests on the arch of the tentorium. It is right to remark that some anatomical writers have admitted only two lobes, reckoning the middle and posterior lobes as one, under the name of the posterior lobe; while others more recently have divided the middle lobe into two, an upper and lower, and have added that of the island of Reil, so as to make five principal lobes in all. These have been named respectively the frontal, parietal, temporal, occipital, and central lobes. The great longitudinal fissure, seen upon the upper surface of the brain, extends from before backwards throughout its whole length in the median plane, and thus separates the cerebrum, as already stated, into a right and left hemisphere. On opening this fissure, it is seen, both before and behind, to pass quite through to the base of the cerebrum : but in the middle it is interrupted by a large transverse mass of white substance, named the corpus callosum, which connects the two hemispheres together. While the brain is in its natural situation, this fissure is occupied by a vertical process of the dura mater—the falx cerebri,—which dips down between the two hemispheres, not quite reaching to the corpus callosum. The Sylvian fissure, which separates the anterior and middle lobes, passes at first upwards and backwards in the outer part of the hemisphere, and