DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN AND TELVIS. 1070 enough of fat ought to be left in tho ischio-rectal fossa to protect the levator ani and obturator fascia ; the inferior liajniorrhoiihil vessels ami nerve may- be dissected towards the border of the sphincter (pp. 420 and 072), an I the htemorrhoidal branch of the 4th sacral nerve may be seen emerging from be- tween the levator ani and coccygeus muscles (p. 008). The two layers of the superficial fascia in the part of the perinasum anterior to the anus are to be distinguished, the most superficial corresponding to what may most correctly be termed the subcutaiieous adipose tissue, and being continued over the ischio-rectal fossa, while the deeper layer terminates behind by- dipping deeply in front of that fossa. The most superficial layer having been removed, the blowpipe may be introduced beneath the deep layer in the anterior half of the perinreum, so that by inflating tlie connective tissue underneath it, its external limits, its septum in the middle line, and its continuity forwards may be demonstrated. It may then be slit open, and will be found to be attached to the arch of the pubes externally, to be continuous with the daitos in front, and to be reflected backwards to the triangular ligament behind (p. 259). Underneath it will be found the three long scrotal nerves, viz., the two superficial perineal branches of the pudic and the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve, which are to be traced backwards (pp. 070 and 075) : also the superficial and transverse perineal arteries are to be dissected out (p. 420). The muscles on which these structures lie are then to be cleaned, viz., the accelerator urincE embracing the urethra, the erector penis lying \ipon the crus penis, and the transversalis periunei (p. 204). In the area between these muscles, subjacent to them, will be observed the triangular ligament or anterior layer of the sub-pubic fascia, and its relations, especially to the uretlira, are to be studied (p. 200). It is then to be divided near the bone, and on its deep aspect the deep transversalis muscle, the constrictor urethras, and the artery of the bulb are to be dissected. The deep transversalis muscle is to be divided, and Cowper's glands are to be sought for in the middle line beneath (p. 903). On the left side are to be traced out the pudic artery and nerve ; in doing which the branches of the artery to the bulb and the corpus cavernosum should be observed (pp. 425 and 070). Lastly, a good view of the inferior aspect of the prostate gland may be obtained by dividing the sphincter ani from the accelerator uriuse muscles at the central point of the perinoeum (p. 204). In the dissection of the perinaium constant reference should be made to the bearing of its an;itomy on the operations of lithotomy (p. 1039). At this period the dissectors may remove one of the testicles for the sake of dissecting it while fresh, 2. Abdominal wall anteriorly.—The dissection of the abdominal parietes, in either sex, is to be commenced on the day on which the subject is laid on its back, with a careful examination of the fascia of the inguinal region, on each side, as far as Poupart's ligament. This should, if possible, be under- taken in association with the dissector of the lower limb. An incision is to be made in the middle line from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, avoiding the umbilicus, and a transverse one meeting the first, inwards from the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Let the dissector raise the lower of the two flaps of skin thus marked out, remove the subcutaneous layer of fat and fascia, and reflect the deeper layer, usually called superficial fascia, in the same direction as the skin, so as to see the manner in which it is bound down in the line of Poupart's ligament. Let him at the same time observe the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries and veins, and the con- tinuation of the superficial fascia over the region of the spermatic cord