977 FEMALE OEGANS OF GENERATION"—THE VULVA. ORGANS OF GENERATION IN THE FEMALE. The generative organs in the female consist of the ovaries, uterus, and Fallopian tubes, which are named the internal, and the vagina and vulva, named the external organs of generation. THE VULVA. The vulva, or 2^udendum, is a general term, which includes all the parts perceptible externally, viz., the mons Veneris, the labia, the hymen or carunculse, the clitoris, and the nymphoe. The urethra also m.ay be described in connection with these parts. The integument on the fore part of the pubic symphysis, elevated by a quantity of areolar and adipose substance deposited beneath it, and covered with hair, is termed the mons Veneris. The labia pudendi (labia externa V. majora) extend downwards and backwards from the mons, gradually be- coming thinner as they descend. They form two rounded folds of integu- ment so placed as to leave an elliptic interval {rima) between them, the outer surface of each being continuous with the skin, and covered with scattered hairs, whilst the inner is lined by the commencement of the genito-urinary mucous membrane. Between the skin and mucous mem- brane there is found, besides fat, vessels, nerves, and glands, some tissue resembling that of the dartos in the scrotum of the male. The labia majora unite beneath the mons and also in front of the perineum, the two points of union being called commissures. The posterior or inferior commissure is about an inch distant from the margin of the anus, and this interval is named the perineum. Immediately within the posterior commissure, the labia are connected by a slight transverse fold (frcenulum pudendi), which has also received the name of fourchette, and is frequently torn in the first parturition. The space between it and the commissure has been called fossa 7iaviculafis. Beneath the anterior commissure, and concealed between the labia, is the clitoris, a small elongated body corresponding in conformation and structure to a diminutive penis, but difiering in having no corpus spongiosum nor urethra connected with it below. It consists of two corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura to the rami of the ischium and pubes, and are united together by their flattened inner surfaces which form an incomplete pectini- form septum. The body of the clitoris, which is about an inch and a half long, but is hidden beneath the mucous membrane, is surmounted by a small glans, consisting of spongy erectile tissue. The glans is imperforate, but highly sensitive, and covered with a membranous fold, analogous to the prepuce. There is a small suspensory ligament, like that of the penis ; and the two ischio-cavernous muscles, named in the female erectores clitoridis, have the same connections as in the male, being inserted into the crura of the corpora cavernosa. From the glans and preputial covering of the clitoris two narrow pendu- lous folds of mucous membrane pass backwards for about an inch and a half, one on each side of the entrance to the vagina. These are the nymphce (labia interna v. minora). Their inner surface is continuous with that of the vagina ; the external insensibly passes into that of the labia majora. They contain vessels between the laminee of tegumentary membrane, but, according to Kobelt, no erectile plexus ; indeed they would seem to corre- spond to the cutaneous covering of the male urethra (supposed to be split 3 s