788 THE TEETH. fore across the direction of tlie tubules. In these lamellae the sections of the tubules appeared as round or oval apertures, the lamellse having the same relation to the tubules as those of true bone to the canaliculi. The same tendency to lamination may be exhibited by boiling a longitudinal section of tooth with caustic potash, after which it presents closely set, short, and regular fissures, lying at right angles to the tubules, throughout the extent of the dentine. (Cleland). Fig. 646. Fig. 547. h Fig. 516,—Vertical Section of the IJpPEa Part of an Incisor Tooth (from Kol- liker). { a, the pulp-cavity ; 6, dentine or tubular substance ; c, arciied contour lines with inter- globular spaces ; d, ceraeut; g, enamel with an indication of the direction of the columns ; /, coloured lines of the enamel. Fig, 547.—A Small Portion of the Dentine WITH Interglobular Spaces (from Kol- liker). ^so &, the tubules ; c, the interglobular spaces filled with air. A laminated structure of a more distinct description has been observed in the dentine of the crown, giving rise to the appearances in longitudinal sections termed contour lines. Czermak states that transverse sections of the tooth present concentric lines resembling the year-rings of wood : and Salter has shown that decalcified specimens readily break up in these lines; the crowns of the teeth consisting of a series of superimposed hollow cones : the intervals between their strata, in longitudinal sections, appearing as contour markings, in transverse sections as annular lines ; in both cases corresponding with the surface of the pulp, as it existed during the forma- tion of the tooth. The contour markings, when examined with the micro- scope, are seen to be caused by irregularities of the intertubular tissue, which, opposite these marks, presents the appearance of spaces or clefts bounded by globular masses of the ordinary tubular and dense substance. These globules vary in size from 2^3^-oth to jq^o0*^ inch. ; the largest being in the crown, the smallest in the fang. The tubuli pass through these globules, and appear to be continuous in direction across the interspaces from one globule to another.