728 THE EYE. as are also some, at least, of tliose of the outer layer, namely, the pyriform bodies supporting the cones. But, according to recent investigations of Henle, whose statements have been corroborated by Ritter as holding good in the mammals generally, the bodies which constitute the bulk of the outer nuclear layer, are elliptical corpuscles, which, when perfectly fresh, exhibit transverse striation similar to muscular fibre, to the extent of three dark lines alternating with clear substance in each, but which soon break up into globules. Fig. 478. Fig. 478.—Striped Elliptical Corpuscles of the External Nuclear Layer op the Retina (from Henle). ^ The internuclear layer, which lies between the layers now referred to, is a clear space of unequal depth, vertically striated, and having likewise a molecular appearance. The molecular basis is more marked in a thin stratum which intervenes be- tween the internal nuclear layer and the nerve cells, and which, therefore, has been distinguished as the molecular layer. 3. Nervous layer.—a. The cellular layer consists of nerve cells with a fine molecular material interspersed among them. At the bottom of the eye over the yellow spot they are thickest (from 8 to 10 cells deep), and decrease in quantity in front ; so that at a fifth of an inch from the ora serrata they are only scattered in clusters. Around the entrance of the optic nerve there is only a single stratum of these elements. The cells when fresh are transparent and nucleated, being roundish or pear-shaped in out- line, and are furnished with from two to six ramified ofi'sets. By their internal offsets the cells are continuous with the nerve fibres beneath ; by horizontal ofi'sets they are united one with another ; and by those which pass outwards they are connected with the corpuscles of the internal nuclear layer. 6. The nerve-fibre layer consists of nerve fibres directed forwards from the optic nerve, and collected into small bundles, which, compressed laterally, intercommunicate and form a delicate web with narrow elongated meshes. This stratum diminishes in thickness forwards, and ends at the ora serrata : it forms a continuous membrane, except at the yellow spot, where the nerve fibres are wanting. According to Bowman, the fibres, which lose their dark outline on reaching the retina, consist there of an axis-cylinder only. It is now well established that they terminate in the nerve cells on which they lie, and this is the only mode of their termination which has been fully ascertained. c. Memhrana limitans and connective tissue.—The limiting membrane lines the inner surface of the retina, separating it from the vitreous body. It is an extremely thin and delicate membrane, which can be detached in shreds ; and it agrees with the other glassy membranes of the eye-ball in not being affected by alkahes, maceration, or boiling. On its retinal surface it is studded with the broadened insertions of vertical threads of connective tissue, which separate the nerve fibres into bundles, and form the inner parts of the Miillerian fibres. Nuclei apparently exist both in these and in the mem- brana limitans itself. DeUcate homogeneous connective tissue, likewise, enters into the composition of the layers of the retina as far outwards as the bases of the rods aiid cones, and gives there the appearance of a horizontal line", the external limitary membrane of Schultze. 4. Radiating fibres of Miiller, and connections of the different elements of the retina,—From the foregoing description it will be gathered that the history of