THE SACEAL PLEXUS. 670 unite into one broad flat cord. To the place of union the nerves proceed in different directions, that of the upper ones being obliquely downwards, while that of the lower is nearly horizontal; and, as a consequence of this difference, they diminish in length from the first to the last. The sacral plexus rests on the anterior surface of the pyriform muscle, opposite the side of the sacrum, and escaping through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, ends in the great sciatic nerve. Branches,—The sacral plexus gives rise to the great sciatic nerve, and to various smaller branches ; viz., the pudic nerve, the small sciatic nerve, and branches to the obturator internus, pyriformis, gemelli, and quadratus femoris muscles. MUSCULAR BBANCHES. a. To the pyriformis muscle, one or more branches are given, either from the plexus or from the upper sacral nerves before they reach the plexus. b. The nei^ve of the internal obturator muscle arises from the part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral and the first sacral nerves. It turns over the ischial spine of the hip-bone with the pudic vessels, and is then directed forwards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen to reach the inner surface of the obturator muscle. c. To the levator ani one or more twigs proceed from the lower part of the plexus. d. The superior gemellus receives a small branch, which arises from the lower part of the plexus. e. The small nerve which supplies the lower gemellus and quadratus femoris muscles springs from the lower part of the plexus. Concealed at first by the great sciatic nerve, it passes beneath the gemelli and the tendon of the internal obturator, —between those muscles and the capsule of the hip-joint,—and reaches the deep (anterior) surface of the quadratus. It furnishes a small articular filament to the back part of the hip-joint. THE PUDIC NERVE. This nerve, arising from the lower part of the sacral plexus, turns over the spine of the ischium, and then passes forwards through the small sacro- sciatic foramen, where it usually gives off the inferior hsRmorrhoidal branch. It is next directed along the outer part of the ischio-rectal fossa, in a sheath of the obturator fascia, along with the pudic vessels, and divides into two terminal branches, the perinseal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the penis. A.—The perinceal nerve, the lower and much the larger of the two divisions of the pudic nerve, lies below the pudic artery, and is expended in superficial and muscular branches. a. The superficial perinceod branches are two in number, anterior and posterior. The posterior branch, which first separates from the perinaeal nerve, reaching the back part of the ischio-rectal fossa, gives filaments inwards to the skin in front of the anus, and turns forwards in company with the anterior branch to reach the scrotum. The anterior branch descends to the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa; and, passing forwards with the superficial perinaeal artery, ramifies in the skin on the fore part of the scrotum and on the penis. This branch sends small twigs to the levator ani muscle. The superficial perinaeal nerves are accompanied to the scrotum by the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve. The three branches are some- times named long scrotal nerves. In the female, both the superficial perinseal branches terminate in the external labium pudendi. b. The muscular branches generally arise by a single trunk, which is directed inwards under cover of the transversalis perinaei muscle, and divides into offisets which