933 -THE URINIFEROUS TUBES, Origin^ course,, and connections of the uriniferous tubules.—When the tubuli uriniferi are followed in their apparent course, the straight tubes are Fig. 658.—Portion of the Uriniferous Tubes, Fig. 653. MAGNIFIED (from Baly). A, portion of a convoluted tube from the cortical sub- stance ; B, epithelial cells from the interior of the tube, magnified 700 diameters. easily traceable from the Malpighian pyramids into the pyramids of Ferrein, and from these into the tubuli contorti. Thus, after the obser- vations of Bowman had demonstrated the con- nection of the Malpighian corpuscles with the tubuli contorti, it appeared natural to believe that the tubuli contorti at one extremity com- menced in capsules of Malpighian corpuscles, and at the other were continued into straight tubules, which opened at the summits of the papillse. It appears, however, from the con- current testimony of recent writers that con- siderable complexity of arrangement intervenes between the terminations of the straight tubes and the commencements of the tubuli contorti, with which the Malpighian corpuscles are connected. It may be considered as certain from the researches of Ludwig and Fig. 654. Fig. 654.—Transverse Sec- tion OP A Renal Papilla (from Kolliker). a, larger tubes or papillary- ducts ; 6, smaller tubes of Henle ; c, bloodvessels, dis- tinguished by their flatter epi- thelium ; d, nuclei of the stroma. Zuwarykin conducted by means of injections, and from those of Schweigger- Seidel by means of isola- tion of the tubules in small animals, that the tubuli contorti which commence in the Malpighian cor- puscles are continued into the looped tubes of Henle, and that these open into the straight tubules or ducts of Bellini, either directly or through the intervention of convoluted tubes of junction of larger size, said by Schweigger-Seidel to be always present. According to Henle the straight tubules turn rather sharply round near the surface of the kidney, and again course inwards ; and this appearance, which has been corroborated by other observers, he believes to result from anastomoses of the tubules in arches, two and two. It must be regarded as a question still