761 Fig. 518.—Section through one MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE COCHLEA. Fig. 518. the spiral ligame^it. It increases in breadth from the base to the apex of the cochlea, while the osseous spiral lamina diminishes in breadth. Thus in the first turn of the cochlea this membrane forms about half of the breadth of the septum made by it and the osseous lamina ; but towards the apex of the cochlea the proportion between the two parts is gradually- reversed, until, near the helicotrema, the membranous part is left almost unsupported by any plate of bone. OP THE Coils op the Cochlea (altered from Henle). £f? A, the section is made in a specimen softened by immersion in hydrochloric acid ; ST, scala tym- pani ; SV, scala vestibuli; CG, canalis cochlese ; R, membrane of Eeissner forming its vestibular wall; I so, lamina spiralis ossea ; Us to Isp, lamina spiralis mem- branacea; Us, limbus laminae spiralis ; s s, sulcus spiralis ; n c, twigs of cochlear nerve ; gs, gang- lion spirale ; t, membrana tectoria; 6, membrana basilaris ; Co, organ of Corti; Isp, ligamentum spirale. The limbus laminae, spiralis (denticulate lamina of Todd and Bowman) is a thick periosteal development near the edge of the osseous spiral lamina on the side which looks towards the vestibular scala. It makes a some- what convex elevation, presenting externally a sharp margin which over- hangs that to which the basilar membrane is attached, being separated from it by a groove. The groove is termed sulcus spiralis^ and the margins labium vestibulare and labium tympanicum respectively. The membrane of Beissner (membrana vestibularis) arises from the inner part of the limbus, and extends outwards at a considerable angle with the osseous spiral lamina. The membrana tectoria (Claudius), or membrane of Corti (Kolliker), has been variously described, but, according to the most recent researches, is an elastic membrane attached on its one border close to the membrane of Reissner, and on the other by an extremely delicate portion to the peri- pheral wall of the cochlea, a little above the membrana basilaris (Claudius and Henle). It thus divides the canalis membranacea into two parts : the large part placed between it and the membrane of Reissner, and con- taining eiidolymph ; the other, a narrow interval dividing it from the membrana basilaris, and occupied by various cellular and rod-like structures of a highly complicated description, which together are designated as the organ of Corti. The canalis membranacea, or ductus cochlearis, bounded in the manner already described, presents a blind pointed extremity at the apex and another at the base. That at the apex extends beyond the hamulus, fixed to the wall of the cupola, and partly bounding the helicotrema ; that at the base fits into the angle at the commencement of the osseous spiral lamina in front of the floor of the vestibule. Near to this blind extremity the canalis membranacea receives a small duct, canalis reuniens (Hensen), which is continued downwards from the saccule of the vestibule like the