746 THE EAE. which is from before backwards, with a slight inclination downwards in front, is occupied in the recent state by the base of the stapes, and the annular ligament connected with that process of bone. Above the fenestra ovalis, and between it and the roof of the tympanum, a ridge indicates the position of the aqueduct of Fallopias, as it passes backwards, contain- ing the portio dura of the seventh nerve. Below it is a larger and more rounded elevation, caused by the projection outwards of the first turn of the cochlea, and named the 'promontory, or tuber cochleae ; it is marked by grooves, in which lie the nerves of the tympanic plexus. Fig. 501. Fig. 501.—Inner Wall of thb Osseotjs Tympanum as exposed by a Longitudinal Section ojf the Petrocs and Mastoid Bone (from Grordon). 1, opening of the tympanum into the mastoid cells ; 2, fenestra ovalis ; 3, fenestra rotunda ; 4, promontory ; 5, aqueduct of Fallopius, or canal of the facial nerve ; 6, junction of the canal for the chorda tympani with the aqueduct; 7, processus cochleari- formis ; 8, groove above it for the tensor tympani muscle ; 9, Eustachian tube ; 10, anterior orifice of the carotid canal. Below and behind the promontory, and somewhat hidden by it, is a slightly oval aperture named fenestra rotunda, which lies within a funnel- shaped depression. In the macerated and dried bone the fenestra rotunda opens into the scala tympani of the cochlea ; but, in the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane. The membrane closing the fenestra rotunda—the secondary membrane of the tympanum (Scarpa)—is rather concave towards the tympanic cavity, and is composed of three strata like the membrana tympani; the middle layer being fibrous, and the outer and inner derived from the membranes lining the cavities between which it is interposed, viz., the tympanum and the cochlea. The posterior wall of the tympanum presents at its upper part one larger, and several smaller openings, which lead into irregular cavities, the mastoid cells, in the substance of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. These cells communicate freely with one another, and are lined by mucous mem- brane continuous with that which clothes the tympanum. Behind the fenestra ovalis, and directed forwards, is a small conical eminence, called the pyramid, or eminentia papillaris. Its apex is pierced by a foramen, through which the tendon of the stapedius muscle emerges from a canal which turns downwards in the posterior wall of the tympanum, and joins obliquely the descending part of the aqueduct of Fallopius.