527 Fig. 359.—View of a Dissection OF THE Fibres of the Medulla INTERN"AL STEUCTtJRE OF CEEEBELLUM. Fig. 359. its upper and inner part. In whatever direction the section is carried through the corpus dentatum, this waved line is seen, so that the dentate body may be described as consisting of a plicated pouch or capsule of grey substance open at one part and inclosing white matter in its interior, like the corpus dentatum of the olivary body. White fibres may be traced from it to the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and to the valve of Vieussens. Oblongata and Pons Varolii (from Arnold). | 5, the anterior pyramid ; 6', its fibres traced upwards through the pons Varolii; c, olivary column ; d, olivary body ; m, superficial trans- verse fibres of the pons on its left side ; m', the deeper transverse fibres of the right side ; m", the prolongation of these fibres as mid- dle peduncle of the cei'ebellum ; p, q, their continuation into the laminae and folia of the cerebellum; n, inferior peduncle ; x, the decus- sating part of the left lateral column crossing to the right ante- rior pyramid. The fibres in the primary lamellae can be traced continuously from the peduncles of the cerebellum. Upon these central plates are laid other collateral lamellce, which are not connected with the fibres proceeding from the middle of the cerebellum, but merely pass from one folium to another. The grey matter is not uniform throughout its whole thickness, but is composed of two or more layers diflfering in colour and other characters;—resembling, in this respect, the cortical substance of the posterior convolutions of the cerebrum. The fibres composing the peduncles of the cerebellum are arranged in its interior in the following manner. The middle peduncles, which are the most superficial, enter the lateral parts of the cerebellum ; they may be traced into the folia of those parts, and form a large share of each hemisphere. The inferior peduncles pass upwards into the middle part of the cerebellum, in the folia of which they are distributed, especially in those of the upper surface. The superior peduncles, which are placed nearest to the middle line, are principally connected with the folia of the inferior vermiform process; but a considerable number of them pass into or issue from the grey capsule of the corpus dentatum which has been already described. A very diflferent account from that which has generally been received of the course and relations of the tracts of nervous substance of the cerebellum has recently been put forward by Luys, and deserves mention in this place. According to the statement of this author, all the fibres of the cerebellar peduncles arise from the interior of the corpora dentata ; the cells of those centres receive externally fibres from the laminated periphery of the cerebellum, and internally give origin to the peduncular fibres; the fibres of the inferior peduncles of opposite sides cross the middle line and terminate in the interior of the olivary nuclei; and the fibres of the superior peduncles, likewise decussating in the mesial plane before quitting the cerebellum, terminate in a grey centre in the interior of the tegmentum of the crus cerebri, named by Luys the superior olivary body. He further alleges that diflferent fibres pass in all directions from the superior and inferior olivary bodies, and that thus the fibres of the cerebellum form a separate system indirectly connected with the fibres of the rest of the cerebro- spinal axis. Only a short notice, however, of these views having as yet been published, it will be necessary that the observations on which they are founded be made known and fully corroborated, before statements of so startling a nature can be generally accepted. (Luys, in Journ. de I'Anat. et de Physiol,, 1864, p. 225.)