1000 DEVELOPMENT OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. ture attached inferiorly to the lower part of the scrotum, and surrounding the peri- toneal pouch above, which may be distinguished as the gubernacuiar cord, both this and the plica gubernatrix being included in the general term cjubernacvlum testis (J. Hunter). The gubernacuiar cord consists of fibres which pass downwards from the sub-peritoneal fascia, others which pass upwards from the superficial fascia and integument, and others again which pass both upwards and downwards from the internal oblique muscle and the aponeurosis of the external oblique; it exhibits, therefore, a fusion of the layers of the abdominal wall. Superiorly, it surrounds the processus vaginalis, without penetrating the plica gubernatrix; and the pro- cessus vaginalis, as it grows, pushes its way down through the gubernacuiar cord and disperses its fibres. By the time that the testis enters the internal abdominal ring, the processus vaginalis has reached a considerable way into the scrotum ; and as the testis follows, the plica gubernatrix becomes shorter, till it at last disappears, but it cannot be said that the shortening of the plica is the cause of the descent of the testicle, and much less (as has been held by some) that the muscular fibres of the gubernacuiar cord are the agents which effect this change of position. The arched fil)res of the creraaster muscle make their appearance on the surface of the processus vaginalis as it descends, while its other fibres are those which descend in the guber- nacuiar cord. (See for a further account of this process, and the various views which have been held with regard to the descent of the testicles, Cleland, " Mechanism of the Gubernaculum Testis." Edinburgh, 1856.) The External Organs of Generation.—In the human subject these have for some time the same form in both sexes; but in animals in which the penis is prolonged to the umbilicus, that circumstance forms one of the very earliest sexual distinctions, inasmuch as the clitoris hangs free. Fig. 695.—Development of the Ex- ternal Sexual Organs in the Male AND Female from the Indifferent Type (from Ecker). A, the external sexual organs in an embryo of about nine weeks, in which sexual distinction is not yet established, and the cloaca still exists : B, the same in an embryo somewhat more advanced, and in which, without marked sexual distinction, the anus is now separated from the uro-genital aperture: C, the same in an embryo of about ten weeks, showing the female type : D, the same in a male embryo somewhat more ad- vanced. Throughout the figures the following indications are employed : pc, common blastema of penis or clitoris ; to the right of these letters in A, the umbilical cord ; p, penis ; c, clitoris ; cl, cloaca ; ug, urogenital opening ; a, anus ; I s, cutaneous elevation which becomes labium or scrotum; I, labium; s, scrotum; c o, coccygeal elevation. Up to the fifth week, according to Tiedemann, there is no separate genito-urinary orifice, and indeed no anus. Previous to this period, or about the beginning of the fourth week, there is a common opening, for the intestine, the generative, and the urinary organs, i. e., a cloacal aperture. In front of this simple opening, there soon appears a small recurved projecting body, which, as it enlarges, becomes grooved along the Avhole of its under surface. This is the rudimentary clitoris, or at the summit of which an enlargement is formed which becomes the glans. The margins of the groove seen on its under surface are continued backwards on either side of the common aperture, which is now elliptical, and is bounded laterally by two large cutaneous folds. Towards the tenth or eleventh week, a transverse band, the commencing perinoeum, divides the anal orifice from that of the genito-urinary passage, which latter now appears as a rounded aperture, placed below the root of