THE TONSILS, 814 between the palatine arches, presents from twelve to jBfteen orifices, which give it a perforated appearance. These orifices lead into recesses in the substance of the tonsil, from which other and smaller orifices conduct still papillary mucous membrane of the throat, and have thick walls formed by a layer of closed capsules imbedded in the submucous tissue. The cap- sules, which may be compared to those of Peyer's glands of the intestine, besides having a mesh-work of capillary blood vessels and delicate trabecular tissue within them, are filled with consistent greyish substance, containing cells and free nuclei, but without the characters of mucus. A substance having the same microscopic elements is found in the cavity of the follicle, but here it is liable to be mixed with mucus supplied by true mucous glands, the ducts of which pass into the follicle. The function of the tonsils is as little known as that of the other glands formed of closed capsules which are found in the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. Follicular recesses, surrounded by closed capsules, like the recesses and capsules of the tonsils, are also found at the root of the tongue, where they form a layer extending from the papillae vallatae to the epiglottis, and from one tonsil to the other, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane and above the mucous glands, many of whose ducts they receive. The tonsils receive a very large supply of blood from various sources, viz. from the tonsillar and palatine branches of the facial artery, and from the descending palatine, the ascending pharyngeal and the dorsalis linguae. From these arteries, fine branches and capillaries are distributed abundantly to the walls of the capsules and to the papillae of the mucous membrane lining the follicles. The veins are numerous, and enter the tonsillar plexus on its outer side. The nerves come from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, and from the fifth pair. The saliva, which is poured into the mouth, and there mixed with the food during mastication, is secreted by three pairs of glands, named from their respective situations, 'parotid, suhmaxillaryf and sublingual. Agreeing in their general physical characters and minute structure, these glands difier in their size, form, and position. The Parotid Gland. The parotid is the largest of the three salivary glands. It lies on the side of the face, in front of the ear, and extends deeply into the space behind the ramus of the lower jaw. Its weight varies from five to eight drachms. Fig. 571. Fig. 571.—Section of a Fol- licular Gland pkom the Root of the Tongue (from Kolliker). 2? a, epithelial lining ; h, papil- lae of the mucous membrane; c, outer surface of the capsule, formed of connective tissue ; d, outlet, and e, cavity of the capsule; g, follicles iu the substance of the capsular wall. deeper into numerous fol- licles. These follicles are lined by the epithelium and THE SALIVARY GLANDS.