822 Fig. 576. THE (ESOPHAGUS. Fig. 576.—Section op the Coats of the prevails throughout the whole length of the alimentary canal ; but the two layers are here much thicker, more uniformly disposed, and more evident than in any other part except quite at the lower end of the rectum. The external or longitudijial fibres are disposed at the commencement of the tube in three fasciculi, one in front, and one on each side of the oeso- phagus. The lateral fasciculi are blended above with the inferior constrictor of the pharynx ; the anterior fasciculus arises from the back of the cricoid cartilage at the prominent ridge between the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, and its fibres spreading out obliquely on each side of the gullet as they descend, soon blend with those of the lateral bundles to form a con- tinuous layer around the tube. The internal or circular fibres are separated Human CEsophagus (from Kolliker). ^ The section is transverse, and from near the middle of the gullet, a, fibrous covering ; h, divided fibres of the longitudinal mus- cular coat ; c, transverse muscular fibres ; d, submucous or areolar layer ; e, mucous membrane ; /, its papillae ; g, laminated epithelial lining ; A, opening of a mucous gland, of which the cellular part is seen embedded deeply in the mucous membrane ; i, fat vesicles. above by the fibres of the longi- tudinal fasciculi from those of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The rings which they form around the tube have a horizontal direction at the upper and lower part of the oesophagus, but in the intervening space are slightly oblique. At the lower end of the oesophagus, both layers of fibres become continuous with those of the stomach. The muscular coat of the upper end of the oesophagus is of a well- marked red colour, and consists of striped muscular fibres ; but lower down it becomes somewhat paler, and is principally composed of the plain muscular fibres. A few striped fibres, however, are found mixed with the others, and have been traced throughout its whole length, and even, it is said, upon the cardiac end of the stomach. (Ficinus.) The longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus are observed by Hyrtl to be sometimes joined by a broad band of smooth muscle, passing upwards from the left pleura, and sometimes also by another from the left bronchus. The areolar coat is placed between the muscular and mucous coats, and connects them loosely together. The mucous membrane is of firm texture, and is paler in colour than that of the pharynx or stomach. From its loose connections its outer surface is freely movable on the muscular tunic ; and when the latter is contracted, as happens when the oesophagus is not giving passage to food, the mucous lining is thrown into longitudinal folds, the inner surfaces of which are in mutual contact. These folds again disappear on distension of the canal.