595 FOURTH PAIR. In the orbit, the fourth nerve inclines inwards above the muscles, and enters finally the upper oblique muscle at its orbital surface. While in its fibrous? canal in the outer wall of the sinus, the fourth nerve is joined by filaments of the sympathetic, and not unfrequently is blended with the ophthalmic Fig. 403.—View from above of the Motor Nerves Fig. 403. OF THE Eyeball and its Muscles (after Hirsch- feld and Leveill^, altered). The ophthalmic division of the fifth pair has been cut short; the attachment of the muscles round the optic nerve has been opened up, and the three upper muscles turned towards the inner side, their anterior parts being removed ; a part of the optic nerve is cut away to show the inferior rectus ; and a part of the sclerotic coat and cornea is dissected off showing the iris, zona ciliaris, and choroid coat, with the ciliary nerves. a, the upper part of the internal carotid artery emerging from the cavernous sinus ; b, the superior oblique muscle ; b', its anterior part passing through the pulley ; c, the levator palpebrse superioris ; d, the superior rectus ; e, the internal rectus ; /, the external rectus; /', its upper tendon turned down ; g, the inferior rectus; A, insertion of the inferior oblique muscle. II, the commissure of the optic nerve ; II', part of the optic nerve entering the eyeball; III, the common oculo-motor; IV, the fourth or trochlear nerve ; V, the greater root of the trigeminus ; V, the smaller or motor root; VI, the abducent nerve; 1, the upper division of the third nerve separating from the lower and giving twigs to the levator palpe- bras and superior rectus ; 2, the branches of the lower division supplying the internal and inferior recti muscles ; 3, the long branch of the same nerve proceeding forward to the inferior oblique muscle, and close to the number 3, the short thick branch to the ciliary ganglion : this ganglion is also shown, receiving from behind the slender twig from the nasal nerve, which has baen cut short, and giving forwards some of its ciliary nerves, which pierce the sclerotic coat; 3', marks the termination of some of these nerves in the ciliary muscle and iris after having passed between the sclerotic and choroid coats ; 4, the distribution of the trochlear nerve to the upper surface of the superior oblique muscle ; 6, the abducent nerve passing into the external rectus. division of the fifth. Bidder states that three or more small filaments of this nerve extend in the tentorium as far as the lateral sinus; and has figured one as joining the sympathetic on the carotid artery. (Neurologische Beobachtungen, Von F. H. Bidder. Dorpat, 1836.) FIFTH PAIR OF NERVES. The fifth, or trifacial nerve (nerv. trigeminus), the largest cranial nerve, is analogous to the spinal nerves, in respect that it consists of a motor and a sensory part, and that the sensory fibres pass through a ganglion while the motor do not. Its sensory division, which is much the larger, imparts common sensibility to the face and the fore part of the head, as well as to the eye, the nose, the ear, and the moath ; and endows the fore part of the tongue with the powers of both touch and taste. The motor root supplies chiefly the muscles of mastication.