572 WEIGHT OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. From this it appears tliat the proportionate weight of the cerebellum to that of the cerebrum is, in the male, as 1 to 8|, and in the female as 1 to 85. The cerebellum attains its maximum weight from the twenty-fifth to the fortieth year; but the increase in weight after the fourteenth year is shown to be relatively greater in the female than in the male. The whole cerebellum apart from the pons and medulla is heavier in the male; the lateral lobes of the cerebellum are also heavier in the male. In the male the vermiform process increases gradually from the twentieth to the fiftieth year; in the female it remains stationary during that period, and after the fiftieth year diminishes rapidly. In the new-born infant the ratio of the weight of the cerebellum to that of the whole brain is strikingly different from that observed in the adult, being, according to Chaussier, between 1 to 13 and 1 to 26 ; by Cruvelhier it was found to be 1 to 20, Huschke found the weight of the cerebellum, medulla oblongata and pons together in the newborn infant, as compared with that of the brain, to be in the proportion of 1 to 15, and 1 to 13. In the adult, the proportions were 1 to 7, and 1 to 6. In most mammalia, the cerebellum is found to be heavier in proportion to the cerebrum, than it is in the human subject; in other words, the cerebrum in man is larger in proportion to the cerebellum. Soemmerring pointed out the fact that the brain is larger in proportion to the nerves connected with it in man than in the lower animals. A comparison of the width of the cerebrum with that of the medulla oblongata shows that the proportionate diameter of the brain to that of the medulla oblongata is greater in man than in any animal, except the dolphin, in which creature, however, it must be remembered that the cerebral lobes exhibit a disproportionate lateral development. The width of the cerebrum in man, as compared with that of the medulla oblongata at its base or broadest part, is about 7 to 1, while in many quadru- peds it is as 3 to 1 or even as 2 to 1. WEIGHT OF THE SPINAL CORD. Divested of its membranes and nerves, the spinal cord in the human subject weighs from 1 oz. to If oz., and therefore its proportion to the encephalon is about 1 to 33, Meckel states it as 1 to 40. The disproportion between the brain and the spinal cord becomes less and less in the descending scale of vertebrata, until at length, in cold-blooded animals, the spinal cord becomes heavier than the brain. Thus, in the mouse, the weight of the brain, in proportion to that of the spinal cord, is as 4 to 1; in the pigeon, as 3^ to 1; in the newt, only as | to 1 ; and in the lamprey, as i to 1. In comparison with the size of the body, the spinal cord in man may be stated in general terms to be much smaller than it is in animals. In regard to the cold- blooded animals, to birds, and to small mammalia, this has been actually demonstrated, but not in reference to the larger mammalia. R. Wagner states, as follows, the proportion of the weight of the spinal marrow taken as 1 to the encephalon and its parts— a, to the nerve roots :: 1 : 0'53 6, to the medulla and pons : : 1 : 1" c, to the cerebellum : : 1 : 5-18 d, to the cerebrum :: 1 : 42-78 e, to the encephalon : : 1 : 48'96 SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF THE ENCEPHALON. The specific gravity of different parts of the encephalon has of late attracted some attention from its having been observed that it varies to some extent in different kinds of disease. From the researches of Bucknill, Sankey, Aitken, and Peacock it appears that the average specific gravity of the whole encephalon is about 1036, that of the grey matter 1034, and that of the white 1040. There are also considerable differences in the specific gravity of some of the internal parts. (William Aitken, "The Science and Practice of Medicine," 1865, vol. 2, p. 265 : J, C. Bucknill in " The Lancet," 1852 : Sankey, in the "Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Review," 1853 : Thos. B. Peacock, in the Trans, of the Pathol. Soc. of London, 1861-2.)