THE CEREBRUM. 532 of study by various anatomists in earlier and recent times, but still re- quires farther elucidation. An attempt to describe minutely all the indi- vidual gyri would be difiBcult and useless, owing to their irregularity in different cases, and their want of symmetry in the same brain. Nevertheless, there are some sufficiently constant in presence, and characteristic in situa- tion and form, to admit of being specially described ; and it seems probable that by a sufficiently careful comparison of the convolutions in different animals, and the observation of their development in the foetus, certain general facts may be ascertained regarding them, tending to throw light upon their disposition in man. Fig. 364. Fig. 364.—Outline of the Cerebrum as seen prom the left side, showing the Convolutions as distinguished by Gtratiolet. ^ F, frontal lobe ; P, parietal lobe; T, temporal lobe ; 0, occipital lobe ; R, R, fissure of Rolando ; s, s, fissure of Sylvius, posterior division ; s', s', its anterior division ; C, at the junction of the two, marks the place of the central lobe or convolutions of the island of Reil ; p, the place of the vertical or occipital fissure ; a, a', a", superior, middle and inferior frontal convolutions ; a*, supra-orbital convolutions ; A, anterior transverse or ascending parietal convolution ; B, posterior transverse or ascending parietal convolution ; b, b', b," upper, middle and lower parietal convolutions ; c, c', c", upper, middle and lower temporal convolutions ; d, d', d", upper, middle and lower occipital convolutions ; between b, b', b", and d, d', d'\ are seen the connecting convolutions; between c and c', the parallel fissure. The Island of Eeil constitutes the set of convolutions {gyri operti) which appear earliest both in the foetus and in the animal series. It is a triangular eminence, broken externally into short radiating convolutions, which forms a delta between the anterior and posterior division of the fissure of Sylvius, and is limited externally by a deep sulcus. This mass, constituting the central lobe of recent authors, derives additional interest from being the centre round which the principal convolutions of the cere- brum are arranged. It is only brought into view by laying open the fissure of Sylvius. (See Figs. 365, 369, and 379.) The convolution of the Sylvian fissure is a very large convolution, which is also early in its appearance in animals. Commencing in front of the inner end of the Sylvian fissure, it takes a tortuous and much folded course all round that fissure, giving off numerous secondary gyri, and terminates behind the fissure opposite the point where it began. The gyrus fornicatus, convolution of the corpus callosum, or internal con-