927 FORM AND POSITION OF THE KIDNEYS. weight, the left being almost always heavier than the right. The difference, according to Eayer, is equal to about one-sixth of an ounce. The actual average difference was found by Eeid in ninety-three cases (male and female), to be rather more than one- fourth of an ounce. The proportionate weight of the two kidneys to the body is about 1 to 240. The specific gravity of the renal substance is, on an average, 1*052. The surface of the kidney is smooth and has a deep red colour. Its/orm is peculiar : it is compressed before and behind, convex on its outer and concave on its inuer border, and somewhat enlarged at its upper and lower ends. The anterior surface, more convex than the posterior, is directed some- what outwards, and is partially covered at its upper end by the peritoneum, which is separated from it lower down by loose areolar tissue. The duo- denum and ascending colon, both destitute of peritoneum behind, are in contact with the anterior surface of the right kidney, and the descending colon with that of the left. The front of the right kidney, moreover, touches the under surface of the liver, and that of the left the lower ex- tremity of the spleen. The posterior surface, flatter than the anterior, and imbedded in areolar tissue, rests partly upon the corresponding pillar of the diaphragm, in front of the eleventh and twelfth ribs, partly on the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia, covering the quadratus lumborum muscle ; and, lastly, on the psoas muscle. The external border^ convex in its general outline, is directed outwards and backwards towards the wall of the abdo- men. The internal border, concave and deeply excavated towards the middle, is directed a little downwards and forwards. It presents in its middle a longitudinal j^ssure bounded by an anterior and posterior lip, and named the hilus of Lhe kidney, at which the vessels, the excretory duct, and the nerves enter or pass out. In this hilus, the renal vein lies in front, the artery and its branches next, and the expanded excretory duct or ur3ter behind and towards the lower part of the hilus. The upper end of the kidney, which is larger than the lower, is thick and rounded, and supports the suprarenal capsule, which descends a little way upon its anterior sur- face. This end of the kidney reaches, on the left side, to about the upper border of the eleventh rib, and, on the right, half a rib's breadth lower. It is moreover directed slightly inwards, so that the upper ends of the two kidneys are nearer to each other than the lower ends, which are smaller and somewhat flattened, diverge slightly from the spine, and reach nearly as low as the crest of the ilium. It may here be remarked that, by pl icing the larger end of a kidney upwards and its flatter surface backwards, or by noticing the relation of the parts in the hilus, the side of the body to which the organ belongs may be determined. Varieties.—The kidneys present varieties in form, position, absolute and relative size, and number. Thus, they are sometimes found longer and narrower, and some- times shorter and more rounded than usual. Occasionally one kidney is very small, whilst the other is proportionately enlarged. The kidneys may, one or both, be situated lower down than usual, even in the pelvis. Instances are now and then met with in which only one kidney is present, the single organ being sometimes, though not always, formed by the apparent junction of the two kidneys across the front of the great blood-vessels and vertebral column. The united organ has usually the form of a crescent, the concavity of which is directed upwards,—hence the appellation of the horse-shoe kidney. Sometimes two united kidneys are situated on one or other side of the vertebral column, in the lumbar region, or, but much more rarely, in the cavity of the pelvis. In other very rare cases, three distinct