745 CAVITY AND MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM. sideration a roof and a floor, an outer and an inner wall, and an anterior and a posterior boundary. The roof of the tympanum is formed by a thin plate of bone, which may be easily broken through so as to obtain a view of the tympanic cavity from above ; it is situated on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, near the angle of union with the squamous portion, from which in its development it is derived. The floor is narrow, in consequence of the outer and inner boundaries being inclined towards each other. The outer wall is mainly formed by a thin semitranspareut membrane— membrana tympani, which closes the inner end of the external auditory meatus ; and, to a small extent, by bone. Immediately in front of the ring of bone into which the membrana tympani is inserted, is the inner extremity of the fissure of Glasser, which gives passage to the laxator tympani muscle, and attachment to the processus gracilis of the malleus. Close to the back of this fissure is the opening of a small canal (named by Cruveilhier the canal of Huguier), through which the chorda tympani nerve usually escapes from the cavity of the tympanum and the skull. Fi?. 500.—Membrana Tympani Fig. 500. AS SEEN FROM THE OUTER AND INNER SIDE. * * A, the cater surface; B, the -—r—-. ..^^^^^ ^ inner; iu the latter the small tympani ; 2, malleus ; 3, stapes; 4, incus. The membrana tympani is a nescrly circular disc, slightly concave on its outer surface. It is inserted into the groove already noticed at the end of the meatus externus, and so obliquely that the membrane inclines towards the anterior and lower part of the canal at an angle of about 45°. The handle of the malleus, one of the small bones of the tympanum, descends between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani to a little below the centre, where it is firmly fixed ; and as the direction of this process of the bone is slightly inwards, the outer surface of the mem- brane is thereby rendered concave, being held inwards in the shape of a shallow cone. Though very thin, the membrana tympani is composed of three distinct structures. A prolongation of the skin of the external meatus forms the outer layer ; the mucous membrane lining the cavity of the tympanum furnishes an inner layer ; and between those two is the proper substance of the membrane, made up of fine fibrous and elastic tissues with vessels and nerves. The greater number of the fibres radiate from near the centre at the attachment of the handle of the malleus ; but close to the circum- ference are some circular fibres, which form a dense, almost ligamentous ring. The inner wall of the tympanum, which separates it from the internal ear, is very uneven, presenting several elevations and foramina. Near its upper part is an ovoid, or nearly kidney-shaped opening—fenestra ovalis, which leads into the cavity of the vestibule. This opening, the long diameter of bones are seen adherent to the membriiue and adjacent parts of the temporal bone; in A, the shaded part indicates the small bones as partially seen through the membrane ; 1, membrana