MUSCULAR AND MUCOUS COATS OF THE COLOK 855 inch wide, and half a line thick ; they commence upon the extremity of the caecum, at the attachment of the vermiform appendix, and may be traced along the whole length of the colon as far as the commence- ment of the rectum, where they sprccad out, so as to surround that part of the intestinal tube with a continuous layer of longitudinal muscular fibres. One of these bands, named the posterior, is placed along the attached border of the intestine ; another corresponds with its anterior border, and, in the transverse colon, is situated at the attachment of the great omentum ; whilst the third band (lateral) is found along the free side of the intestine, that is, on the inner border of the ascending and descend- iug colon, and on the under border of the transverse colon. It is along the course of this third band that the appendices epiploicse are most of them attached. Measured from end to end, these three bands are shorter than the intervening parts of the tube ; and the latter are thus thrown into the sacculi already mentioned : accordingly, when the bands are removed by dissection, the sacculi are entirely effaced, and the colon, elongating consider- ably, assumes the cylindrical form. The transverse constrictions seen on the exterior of the intestine, between the sacculi, appear on the inside of the intestine as sharp ridges separating the cells, and are composed of all its coats. In the vermiform appendix the longitudinal muscular fibres constitute a uniform layer. The circular muscular fibres form only a thin layer over the general sur- face of the caecum and colon, but are accumulated in larger numbers between the sacculi. In the rectum, especially towards its lower part, the circular fibres form a very thick and powerful muscular layer. Fig. 600. Fig. 600.—Semi-diagrammatic View op a Small Portion of the Mucous Membrane OF THE Colon. 52 A small portion of the mucous membrane cut perpendicularly at the edges is shown in perspective ; on the surface are seen the orifices of the crypts of Lieberkiihn or tubular glands, the most of them lined by their columnar epithelium, a few divested of it and thus appearing larger ; along the sides the tubular glands are seen more or less equally divided by the section ; these are resting on a wider portion of the submucous tissue, from which the blood-vessels are in a part represented as passing into the spaces between the glands. The mucous membrane difiers from the lining membrane of the small intestine in having no folds, like the valvules coiiniventes, as also in being quite smooth and destitute of villi. Viewed with a lens, its surface is seen