THE NOSE. 774 dimension of parts, which depend on the arrangement of the lining mem- brane, viz.— Throughout the whole of the nasal fossEe it is to be observed that— First, owing to the thickness of the membi-ane in question, (which not only lines the walls of the foss^, but covers the spongy bones on both sides,) the nasal cavity is much narrower in the recent state. Second, in consequence of the prolongations of membrane on their free margins, the turbinate bones, and more particularly the lower pair, appear in the recent state to be both more prominent, and longer in the direction from before backwards, than in the dried skull. Third, by the arrange- ment of the mucous membrane round and over the orifices which open into the nasal fossae, some of the foramina in the bones are narrowed, and others com- pletely closed. In the individual parts of the nasal fossse the following particulars are to be noticed:— In the upper meatus, the small orifice which leads into the posterior ethmoidal cells is lined by a prolongation of the thin mucous membrane which continues into those cavities; but the spheno-palatine foramen is covered over by the Schneiderian membrane, so that no such opening exists in the recent nasal fossa. In the middle meatus the aperture of the infundibulum is nearly hidden by an overhanging fold of membrane; it leads directly into the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through them into the frontal sinus. Below and behind this, the passage into the antrum of Highmore is surrounded by a circular fold of the pituitary membrane, (sometimes prominent and even slightly valvular,) which leaves a circular aperture much smaller than the foramen in the bony meatus. In the lower meatus, the inferior orifice of the nasal duct is defended by one or two folds of membrane; and when there are two, the folds are often adapted so accurately together as to prevent even air passing back from the cavity of the nose to the lachrymal sac. In the roof the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone are closed by the membrane, but the openings into the sphenoidal sinuses receive a prolonga- tion from it. In the floor the incisor foramen is in the recent state generally closed. Some- times, however, a narrow funnel-shaped tube of the mucous membrane descends f or a short distance into the canal, but is closed before it reaches the roof of the palate. Vesalius, Stenson and Santorini believed that this tube of membrane opened generally into the roof of the mouth by a small aperture close behind the interval between the central incisor teeth. Haller, Scarpa, and, more recently, Jacob- son, find that in man it is usually closed, and often difficult of detection. (See Cuvier's Keport on a paper by Jacobson, " Annales du Museum d'Hist. Naturelle;" Paris, 1811 ; vol. xviii. p. 412.) MUCOUS MEMBRANE. The pituitary or Schneiderian membrane, which lines the cavities of the nose, is a highly vascular mucous membrane, inseparably united, like that investing the cavity of the tympanum, with the periosteum and peri- chondrium over which it lies. It is continuous with the skin through the nostrils ; with the mucous membrane of the pharynx through the pos- terior apertures of the nasal fossae ; with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct and lachrymal canaliculi ; and with the lining membrane of the several sinuses which communicate with the nasal fossse. The pituitary membrane, however, varies much in thickness, vascularity, and general appearance in these different parts. It is thickest and most vascular over the turbinate l)ones (particularly the inferior), from the most dependent parts of which it forms projections in front and behind, thereby increasing the surface to some extent. On the septum nasi the pituitary membrane is still very thick and spongy ; but in the intervals between the turbinate bones, and over the floor of the nasal fossse, it is considerably thinner. In the maxillary, frontal.