859 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. THE ANUS AND ITS MUSCLES. Tlie aims, or lower openiug of tlie alimentary canal, is a dilatable orifice, surrounded internally by the mucous membrane, and externally by the skin, which two structures here become continuous with and pass into each other. The skin around the borders of the anus, which is thrown into wrinkles or folds during the closed state of the orifice, is covered with numerous sensi- tive papillae, and is provided with hairs and sebaceous follicles. The lower end of the rectum and the margin of the anus are, moreover, embraced by certain muscles, which serve to support the bowel, and to close its anal orifice. These muscles, proceeding from within outwards, are, the internal sphincter, the levatores ani, the coccygei, and the external sphincter. The three last muscles have already been described (pp. 262, 263). The internal sphincter muscle (sphincter ani internus) is a muscular ring or rather belt, surrounding the lower part of the rectum, an inch above the anus, and extending over about half an inch of the intestine. It is two lines thick, and is paler than the external sphincter. Its fibres are con- tinuous above with the circular muscular fibres of the rectum, and, indeed, it consists merely of those fibres more numerously developed than elsewhere, and prolonged farther down than the external longitudinal fibres. Kohlrausch describes a thin stratum of fibres between the mucous membrane and the internal sphincter, these fibres having a longitudinal direction. Henle thinks this is nothing more than the stratum of fibres belonging to the proper mucous coat; but Kohlrausch gives it a distinct name, the sustentator tunicas mucosae. (Kohl- rausch, Anat. und Phys. d. Beckenorgane, Leipzig. 1854.) DEVELOPMENT OP THE ALIMENTARY CANAL AND PERITONEAL CAVITY. It has been already casually stated (p. 15) that the epithelial lining of the alimen- tary canal is derived from the deepest of the three layers into which the germinal membrane divides, while the rest of its walls are derived from a part of the middle layer. To make this clear, it is necessary to state that while those parts of the middle layer of the embryo which lie next to the chorda dorsalis, form the dorsal plates from which the bones, nerves, and muscles of the trunk are derived, the lateral parts lying beyond form, as described by Remak, the visceral ■plates, which on each side divide into a deep and a superficial part, and, at the same time growing inwards, unite together on the ventral aspect of the chorda dorsalis, forming by their union the mesial plate. The superficial divisions of the two visceral plates, remaining in contact with the outer epithelial layer of the embryo, form the cutis; the deep division is the mus- culo-intestinal layer, which forms the walls of the alimentary canal, with the exception of its epithelial lining; and the space between the superficial and deep divisions is the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity, from which the pleural and peritoneal cavities become separated in a subsequent stage of development. The alimentary canal commences in the form of a groove which opens towards the yelk-cavity of the ovum; and the internal epithelial and musculo-intestinal layers in Avhich this groove is formed, are continued round the yelk, constituting the walls of the vitelline sac. The open groove is soon changed into a tube at each end, but is left open in the middle upon the ventral aspect, and communicates at first by a wide aperture, but later by means of a tube, named the omphalo-enteric canal or vitelline duct, with the vitelline sac. This duct is soon obliterated, and the vitelline sac becomes the umbilical vesicle, which is thereafter connected for a time with the embryo only by a slender elongated pedicle, which enters at the umbilicus and is accompanied by the omphalo-mesenteric vessels; this pedicle is finally atrophied and disappears. The alimentary canal, Avhen it first assumes the tubular form, constitutes a simple straight cylinder closed at each end, and placed along the front of the vertebral column, to which it is closely attached at each extremity, whilst in the middle of its course it is connected to the rest of the embryo by a median membranous fold, or rudimcntal