918 THE LAKYNX. cords; the upper parts of these muscles^ being attached higher up on the arytenoid cartilages, depress them. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscles, by pulling forwards the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages, approximate the vocal cords to the middle line. The posterior- crico-arytenoid muscles pull backwards the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages, and thus draw asunder the posterior extremities of the vocal cords, and dilate the glottis to its greatest extent; they are likewise the elevators of the arytenoid cartilages, being inserted above the articulation. The arytenoid muscle draws the arytenoid cartilages together, and from the struc- ture of the crico-arytenoid joints, this approximation when complete is necessarily accompanied with depression. The aryteno-epiglottidean muscles at once depress and approximate the arytenoid cartilages, which they include in their embrace, and draw down the epiglottis, so as to contract the whole superior aperture of the larynx. With the aid of the laryngoscope it may be seen that in ordinary breathing the rima glottidis is widely open, and that in vocalization the vocal cords come closely together ; which is effected principally, no doubt, by the action of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles, assisted by the arytenoid and perhaps by the thyro-arytenoid, and accom- panied Avitli a varying amount of contraction of the crico thyroid muscles. The regulation of the tension of the vocal cords and of the width of the aperture of the glottis, in the production of high and low pitched notes, is probably accomplished by the crico-tliyroid and thyro-arytenoid muscles. The movement of the thyroid on the cricoid cartilage, effected by these muscles during the passage of the voice from one extreme of the scale to the other, may be detected by placing the tip of a finger over the crico-thyroid ligament. The arytenoid and aryteno-epiglottidean muscles come into action in spasmodic closure of the upper aperture of the larynx; the complete descent of the epiglottis, however, can only take place when the tongue is retracted as in the act of swallowing. The manner in which the larynx is aflfected by the extrinsic muscles, in the acts of deglutition and vocalization, has been mentioned at pages 191 and 193. It is remarked by Henle that, with the exception of the crico-thyroid and posterior crico arytenoid, the muscles of the larynx, namely, those " which lie in the space enclosed by the laminae of the thyroid cartilage, and above the cricoid, the fibres of which are substantially horizontal, may be regarded in their totality as a kind of sphincter. Such a sphincter is found in its simple form embracing the entrance of the larynx in reptiles; and the complication which it attains in the higher vertebrates arises, like the complication of the muscles generally, from the fibres finding various points of attachment in their course, by which means they are broken up and divided." The mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx.—The laryngeal mucous membrane is thin and of a pale pink colour. In some situations it adheres intimately to the subjacent parts, especially on the epiglottis, and still more in passing over the true vocal cords, on which it is extremely thin and most closely adherent. About the upper part of the larynx, above the glottis, it is extremely sensitive. In or near the aryteno-epiglottidean folds it covers a quantity of loose areolar tissue, which is liable in disease to in- filtration, constituting oedema of the glottis. Like the mucous membrane in the rest of the air passages, that of the larynx is covered in the greater part of its extent with a columnar ciliated epithelium, by the vibratory action of which the mucus is urged upwards. The cilia are found higher up in front than on each side and behind, reaching in the former direction as high as the widest portion of the epiglottis, and in the other directions to a line or two above the border of the superior vocal cords : above these points the epithelium loses its cilia, and gradually assumes a squamous form, like that of the pharynx and mouth. Upon the vocal cords also the epithelium is squamous, although both above and below them it is ciliated. Glands.—The lining membrane of the larjmx is provided with numerous glands^ which secrete an abundant mucus ; and the orifices of which may