672 THE SACKAL PLEXUS. the penis, this nerve is joined by branches of the sympathetic system, and it sends outwards numerous oflFsets to the integument on the upper surface and sides of the organ, including the prepuce. One large branch penetrates the corpus cavernosum penis. In the female, the dorsal nerve of the clitoris is much smaller than the corresponding branch in the male ; it is similarly distributed. C.—The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve arises from the pudic nerve at the back of the pelvis, or it may come directly from the sacral plexus, and be transmitted through the small sacro-sciatic foramen to its distribution in the lower end of the rectum. Fig. 443. Fig. 443.—Dissection op the Perineum op the Male to show the Distribution op THE Pudic and other Nerves (from Hirschfeld and Leveille). I On the right side a part of the gluteus maximus muscle and the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment have been removed to show the descent of the nerves from the great sacro-sciatic foramen. 1, great sciatic nerve of the right side ; 2, lesser sciatic nerve ; 2', its muscular branches to the gluteus maximus (right side); 2", cutaneous branches to the buttock (left side); 3, continuation of the nerve as posterior middle cutaneous of the thigh ; 3', internal and external cutaneous branches; 4, 4, inferior pudendal branch ; 4', network of this and the perineal nerves on the scrotum ; 5, right pudic nerve; 6, superior branch or nerve to the penis ; 7, the external superficial perineal branch ; 7', the internal superficial perineal branch ; 8, musculo-bulbal branches ; 9, hemorrhoidal or cutaneous anal branches ; 10, cutaneous branch of the fourth sacral nerve. Some of the branches of this nerve end in the external sphincter and in the adjacent skin of the anus; others reach the skin in front of that part, and communicate with the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve, and with the superficial perineal nerves. Summary.—The pudic nerve supplies the perinseum, the penis, and part of the scrotum, also the urethral and anal muscles in the male ; and the