NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 680 articular arteries of that side. They sometimes arise together, and the upper one occasionally springs from the great sciatic nerve before the bifur- cation. From the place of division of the external popliteal nerve, a recurrent articular nerve ascends through the tibialis anticus muscle with the recur- rent artery to reach the fore part of the knee-joint. Fig. 449.—Cutaneous Nerves op the Outer Side op the Leg and Foot (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). ^ 1, external popliteal nerve; 2, its external cutaneous branch ; 3, communi- cating branch which unites with 4, that from the internal popliteal in 5, the ex- ternal saphenous nerve; 6, calcaneal branch of the external saphenous; 7, external dorsal digital branch to the fifth toe; 8, collateral dorsal digital branch of the fourth and fifth toes ; 9, musculo- cutaneous nerve ; 10, its cutaneous branches ; 11, loop of union with the external saphenous; 12, union between its outer and inner branches ; 13, an- terior tibial nerve, shown by the removal of a part of the muscles, and giving muscular branches superiorly ; 14, its terminal branch emerging in the space between the first and second toes, where it gives the collateral dorsal digital branches to their adjacent sides. Cutaneous Nerves.—The cuta- neous branches, two or three in number, supply the skin on the back part and outer side of the leg. The peroneal communicating branch (r. communicans fibularis), which joins the short saphenous nerve below the middle of the back of the leg, is the largest of these nerves. In some instances, it continues a separate branch and its cutaneous jfilaments reach down to the heel or on to the outside of the foot. Another cutaneous branch extends along the outer side of the leg to the middle or lower part, sending offsets both backwards and forwards. MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE. The musculo-cutaneous (peroneal) nerve descends between the peronei muscles and the long extensor of the toes, and reaches the surface by per- forating the fascia in the lower part of the leg on the anterior aspect. It then divides into two branches, distinguished as external and internal, which proceed to the toes. The two branches sometimes perforate the fascia at a different height. Fig. 449.