600 THE CEANIAL NEKVES. from the branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle, and is connected with the lower part of the ganglion. The third root is a very small nerve which emanates from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and reaches the ganglion with the long upper root : these two nerves are sometimes conjoined before reaching the ganglion. Other roots have been assigned to the ganglion. (Valentin, in Miiller's Archiv. for 1840.) Branches of the ganglion.—From the fore part of the ganglion arise ten or twelve delicate filaments—the sho7't ciliary nerves. These nerves are disposed in two fasciculi, arising from the upper and lower angles of the ganglion, and they run forwards, one set above, the other below the optic nerve, the latter being the more numerous. They are accompanied by fila- ments from the nasal nerve (long ciliary), with which some are joined. Having entered the eyeball by apertures in the back part of the sclerotic coat, the nerves are lodged in grooves on its inner surface ; and at the ciliary muscle, which they pierce (some filaments supplying it and the cornea), they turn inwards and ramify in the iris. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The superior maxillary nerve, or second division of the fifth cranial nerve, is intermediate in size between the ophthalmic and the inferior maxillary trunks. It commences at the middle of the Gasserian ganglion, and, passing hori- zontally forwards, soon leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum of the sphenoid bone. The nerve then crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the infra-orbital canal of the upper maxilla, by which it is conducted to the face. After emerging from the infra-orbital foramen, it terminates beneath the elevator of the upper lip in branches which spread out to the side of the nose, the eyelid, and the upper lip. Branches.—In the spheno-maxillary fossa a temporo-malar branch ascends from the superior maxillary nerve to the orbit, and two spheno- palatine branches descend to join Meckel's ganglion. Whilst the nerve is in contact with the upper maxilla, it furnishes two posterior dental branches on the tuberosity of the bone, and an anterior dental branch at the fore part. On the face are the terminal branches already indicated. ORBITAL BRANCH. The orbital or temporo-malar branch, a small cutaneous nerve, enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches (temporal and malar), which pierce the malar bone, and are distributed to the temple and the prominent part of the cheek. a. The temporal branch is contained in an osseous groove or canal in the outer wall of the orbit, and leaves this cavity by a foramen in the malar bone. When about to traverse the bone, it is joined by a communicating filament (in some cases, two filaments) from the lachrymal nerve. The nerve is then inclined upwards in the temporal fossa between the bone and the temporal muscle, perforates the aponeurosis over the muscle an inch above the zygoma, and ends in cutaneous filaments over the temple. The cutaneous ramifications are united with the facial nerve, and sometimes with the superficial temporal nerve of the third division of the fifth. h. The malar branch lies at first in the loose fat in the lower angle of the orbit, and is continued to the face through a foramen in the fore part of