THE URINARY 15LADJ3ER 948 Interior of the Bladder.—On opening the bladder, its internal surfjice is found to bo lined by a smooth membrane, which is so loosely attached to the other coats, that in the flaccid condition of the organ it is nearly every- where thrown into small wrinkles or folds, which disappear as soon as the » bladder is distended. Besides these, the interior of the bladder is often marked by reticular elevations or ridges, correspojidiug with the fasciculi of the muscular coat. At the lower and anterior part of the bladder is seen the orifice leading into the urethra, round which the mucous membrane is corrugated longi- tudinally. Immediately behind the urethral opening, at the anterior part of the fundus, is a small smooth triangular surface, having its apex turned forwards, which, owing to the firmer adhesion of the mucous membrane to the subjacent tissues, never presents any rugaj, even when the bladder is empty. This surface is named the trigone (trigonum vesicae, Lieutaud) ; at its posterior angles are the orifices of the two ureters, situated about an inch and a half from each other, and nearly the same distance from the anterior angle, where the bladder opens into the urethra (tig. G73). The orifices of the ureters, presenting the appearance of oval slits, are directed obliquely forwards and inwards : they are united by a curved elevation which extends generally outwards and backwards beyond them, and which corresponds in position with a muscular band which joins them together and to the neck of the bladder. Proceeding forwards from opposite the middle of this, is another slight elevation of the mucous surface, named the uvula vesicce (luette vesicale), which projects from below into the ure- thral orifice. In the female, the trigone is small, and the uvula indis- tinct. In the male, the uvula lies a little in advance of the middle lobe of the prostate, and is sometimes prolonged on the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. It is formed by a thickening of the submucous tissue. In its natural state this may contribute to the more perfect closure or apposition of the sides of the orifice of the bladder, and when enlarged by dise&se it frequently produces serious obstruction at the commencement of the urethra. Structure,—The bladder is composed of a serous, a muscular, and a mucous coat, united together by areolar tissue, and supplied with numerous blood-vessels and nerves. The serous or peritonecd coat is a partial covering, investing only the posterior and upper half of the bladder, and reflected from it upon the sur- rounding parts in the manner already described in detail. The muscular coat consists of pa]e unstriped involuntary muscular fibres, so arranged as to warrant the usual description of them as forming layers, the outer of which consists of fibres more or less longitudinal, and the next, of fibres more circular in disposition ; while, beneath this, is another delicate longitudinal layer more recently recognised. The external or hmgitudincd fibres are most distinctly marked on the anterior and 'posterior surfaces of the bladder. Commencing in front at the neck of the organ, from the pubes in both sexes (musculi pubo-vesicales, p. 265), and, in the male, from the adjoining part of the prostate gland, they may be traced upwards along the anterior surface to the summit of the bladder ; and they may likewise be followed down over the posterior surface and base to the under part of the neck of the bladder, where they become attached to the prostate in the male, and to the front of the vagina in the female. Upon the sides of the bladder the superficial fasciculi run more or less obliquely, and often intersect one another : in the male they