ORGANS OF DIGESTION. THE MOUTH. 779 Section VI.—SPLANCHNOLOGY. Under the division Splanclmology will be described those organs of the body which have not found a place in any of the foregoing parts of the work. These consist of the organs of digestion, the organs of respiration, the urinary organs, and the organs of generation. ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The digestive apparatus includes that portion of the organs of assimilation within which the food is received and partially converted into chyle, and from which, after the chyle has been absorbed, the residue or excrement is expelled. It consists mainly of a tubular part,—the alimentary canals to- gether with various glands of which it receives the secretions. The alimentary canal is a long membranous tube commencing at the mouth and terminating at the anus, composed of certain tunics or coats, and lined by a continuous mucous membrane from one end to the other. Its average length is about thirty feet, being about five or six times the length of the body. Its upper extremity is placed beneath the base of the skull, the succeeding portion traverses the thorax, and by far the greater part is contained within the cavities of the abdomen and pelvis. The part situated above the diaphragm consists of the organs of mastica- tion, insalivation and deglutition, and comprises the mouthy with the teeth and salivary glands, the pharynx, and the oesophagus or gullet. The remainder includes that part of the canal which is more immediately en- gaged in the digestive process, in absorption and in defecation, as the stomach and the small and large intestine. The glands which are most intimately connected with digestion consist of those very numerous smaller glandular organs which are situated in the mucous membrane of the alimen- tary canal, and the larger glands, such as the pancreas and liver, whose ducts open within the canal. THE MOUTH. The mouth, or, more definitely, the buccal cavity^ is the space included between the lips and the throat. Bounded by the lips, cheeks, tongue, and the hard and soft palate, it communicates behind with the pharynx through an opening called the fauces (isthmus faucium). The cavity of the mouth is lined throughout by a mucous membrane, which is of a pink rosy hue during life, but pale grey after death, and which presents peculiarities of surface and structure to be noticed hereafter. The lips and cheeks are composed of an external layer of skin, and of an internal layer of mucous membrane, together with muscles, vessels, and nerves already fully described in other parts of this work, some areolar tissue, fat, and numerous small glands. The free border of the lips is pro- tected by a dry mucous membrane, which becomes continuous with the skin, is covered with numerous minute papilli?e, and is highly sensitive. On the inner surface of each lip, the mucous membrane forms a fold in the middle line, connecting the lip with the gums of the corresponding jaw. These are the frcena or frcenula of the lips : that of the upper lip is much the larger. Numerous small glands, called labial glands, are found beneath the