MALE OKGANS OF GENEEATIOK 952 Fig. 668. Fig. 668.—Transverse Section op the Pros- THE URETHRA. The urethra is a membranous tube directed in the median line, first verti- cally and then from behind forwards, beneath the arch of the pubes, in which situation it opens in the female into the vulva, while in the male it is enclosed in the spongy substance and prolonged beneath the corpora caver- nosa penis. In the female, it serves simply as the excretory passage for the urine ; in the male, it conducts also the seminal fluid. The detailed anatomy of the male and female urethra will be given with that of the organs of generation of the respective sexes. OKGANS OF GENERATION. THE MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The male organs of generation include, together with the testes and their proper excretory apparatus, a series of structures which for convenience may be considered first, as they are closely connected with the urethra. Thus, at its commencement the urethra passes through the prostate glayicl, and there it receives the excretory ducts of the testes and vesiculse semi- nales ; emerging from the prostate, it traverses the layers of the subpubic fascia supported by muscles, and, becoming copiously surrounded with the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum, is pierced by the ducts of Cowper^s glands, and afterwards, in conjunction with the corpora cavernosa, enters into the formation of the penis. THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland is a firm glandular body, somewhat resembling a chestnut in shape and size, which supports the neck of the bladder and encloses the commencement of the urethra : it is placed in the pelvic cavity, on the deep aspect of the subpubic fascia, and rests upon the rectum. It has the form of a flattened cone with its base in contact with the bladder, and cut obliquely, so that its posterior or rectal surface is much larger than its anterior or pubic surface. It usually measures about an inch and a half across at its widest part, an inch and a quarter from its base to its apex, and nearly an inch in depth or thickness. Its ordinary weight is about six drachms. The anterior or pubic surface of. the prostate is flattened and marked with a slight longitudinal furrow ; it is about half an inch or rather more from the pubic symphysis, and there, as well as the sides of the gland, is con- tate Gland through the Middle. u, the urethra, into which the eminence of the caput gallinaginis rises from helow; s,the sinus po- cuiaris, cut through ; d e, the ejaculatory ducts ; m, superiorly, the deep sphincter muscular fibres ; m, lower down, intersecting muscular bands in the lateral lobes of the prostate ; p, p, glandular sub- stance. nected to the pubic arch by the reflexion of the pelvic fascia, which forms the pubo-prostatic ligaments or anterior ligaments of the bladder. The pos- terior or rectal surface is smooth, and is marked by a slight depression,