SURGICAL ANATOMY OF IIERNLT^.. 1034 Cloquet to possess in some cases considerable density ; and, from being the only barrier in this situation between the abdomen and the top of the thigh, it was named by that observer the crural septum (septum crurale). But this structure is no more than areolar tissue with enclosed fat, and it forms oftentimes but a very slight partition. On clearing it away, the ring is displayed (fig. 34G). It is a narrow opening, usually of sufficient size to admit the end of the fore finger ; the size, however, varies in different cases, and it may be said to increase as the breadth of Gimbernat's ligament diminishes, and the converse. It is larger in the female than in the male body. On three sides the ring is bounded by very unyielding structures. In front are the femoral arches ; behind is the hip-bone covered by the pectineus muscle and the pubic layer of the fascia lata ; on the outer side lies the external iliac vein, but covered with its sheath ; and on the inner side are several layers of fibrous structure connected with the pectineal line—namely, Gimbernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon of the two deeper abdominal muscles, and the fascia transversalis, with the deep femoral arch. The last-mentioned structures—those bounding the riug at the inner side—present respectively a more or less sharp margin towards the opening. Femoral canal.—From the femoral ring, which is its orifice, the canal continues downwards behind the iliac part of the fascia lata (its falciform process), in front of the pubic portion of the same membrane, and ends at the saphenous opening. It is rather less than half an inch in length ; but in its length the caual varies a little in diflferent cases. Blood-vessels.—Besides the femoral vein, the position of which has been already stated, the epigastric artery is closely connected with the ring, lying above its outer side. It not unfrequently happens that the obturator artery descends into the pelvis at the outer side of the same opening, or imme- diately behind it; and in some rare cases that vessel turns over the ring to its inner side. Moreover, an obturator vein has occasionally the same course ; and small branches of the epigastric artery will be generally found ramifying on the posterior aspect of Gimbernat's ligament. In the male body, the spermatic vessels are separated from the canal only by the femoral arch. To the foregoing account of the anatomical arrangement of the parts con- cerned in femoral hernia, may be added certain measurements, showing the distances of some of the most important from a given point. They are copied from the work of Sir A. Cooper : — MALE. FEMALE. From the symphysis pubis to the anterior spine of the ilium ....... From same point to the middle of the iliac vein 1 o| inches. . . 6 inches. • S ? ' -4 .. 3i J5 1 3| „ . .. 2| . 2i „ . •• 2i J5 ,, to the middle of the lunated edge of the fascia lata ..... to the middle of the femoral ring . Descent of the Jiernia.—When a femoral hernia is being formed, the protruded part is at first vertical in its course ; but at the lower end of the canal, after the passage of about half an inch, it undergoes a change of direction, bending forward at the saphenous opening; and, as it increases in size, it ascends over the iliac part of the fascia lata and the femoral arch. The hernia thus turns round those structures, passing from * On Crural Hernia, p. 5.