ACTION OF THE MUSCLES.—LmilvrG MEMBEANE. 751 stantly in the horse, the ox, and other animals. This circumstance is the more inte- resting when it is remembered that cartilage occupies the position of the stapedius before the muscle is developed. (P. 66 and fig. 528.) Actio7is.—The malleus and incus move together round an axis extending backwards from the attachment of the processus gracilis of the malleus in the Glasserian fissure to the attachment of the short process of the incus posteriorly. The tendon of the tensor tympani muscle passing from within to be inserted below that line, pulls the handle of the malleus inwards, while the laxator tympani inserted above that line, by pulling the head of the bone inwards, moves the handle outwards. The incus, moving along with the malleus, pushes the stapes inwards towards the internal ear when the membrana tympani is made tight, and withdraws that bone from the fenestra ovalis, when the membrana tympani is relaxed. But the cavity of the inner ear is full of Fig. 505.—Odtline of the Thrke Small Bones of Fig. 505. THE Left Ea.r as seen from before. | This figure is designed to illustrate the efi'eet of the action of the tensor and laxator muscles of the tympauic membrane in connection with their relation to the axis of rotation of the malleus, a, a', the malleus ; b, the incus seen behind it; c, the stapes ; m, m, the inner part of the meatus externus closed by the tympanic membrane, of which the posterior half is represented ; the axis of rotation of the malleus being supposed to pass through a point at the root ©f the processus gracilis, g ; the line t, indi- cates the direction and position of the tendon of the tensor tympani pulling the lower part of the malleus inwards, the line I, that of the laxator tympani pulling inwards the upper half of the malleus. liquid; and its walls are unyielding, except at the fenestra rotunda; when, there- fore, the stapes is pushed inwards the secondary membrane of the tympanum, which blocks up the fenestra rotunda, must be made tense by pressure from within. The attachment of the handle of the malleus, however, to the membrana tympani allows greater freedom of movement to that process than is allowed to the stapes by the ligament of its base, and when the movement of the stapes ceases, it is plain that the malleus in any movement must rotate on the head of the incus; and hence, probably, the necessity of a moveable articulation between those bones. The action of the stapedius muscle is obviously to draw the head of the stapes backwards, in doing which the hinder end of the base of that bone will be pressed against the margin of the fenestra ovalis, while the forepart will be withdrawn from the fenestra. The object gained by this movement of the stapes is not suflaciently ascertained ; but it is at least evident that if the stapes be pressed inwards by the incus in the action of the tensor tympani, the stapedius muscle, if then contracted, will modify the pressure on the internal ear. It is conceivable that the stapedius may thus protect the sensitive part of the ear to a certain extent from excessive stimulation of the auditory nerve. THE LINING MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous -with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is further prolonged from the tympanum backwards into the mastoid cells. Two folds which cross the breadth of the cavity descend from the part of the membrane which lines the roof. The anterior fold descends to turn round the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle ; the posterior fold passes round the stapes. The malleus and incus are invested by the lining of the outer wall of the cavity. The mucous membrane which lines the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube resembles much the membrane of the pharynx, with which it is immediately continuous ; it is thick and vascular, and is covered by several layers of laminar epithelium with vibratile cilia, and is provided with many simple mucous glands which pour out a thick secretion : in the osseous part of the