THE LEG AND FOOT. 1083 find another cutaneous brancli of tlie external popliteal nerve ramifying on the other side of the leg. The gastrocnemius muscle is then to be cleaned, and the nerves and vessels entering it are to be more particularly dissected (p. 283). Its thin and flat tendon is then to be carefully divided at its lower part from that of the soleus, and the muscle is to be turned upwards. The soleus muscle will thus be brought into view, and, resting upon it the plantaris (which however is sometimes absent). Between the soleus muscle and the knee-joint the popliteus muscle will be seen protected by the pop- liteal aponeurosis, and, crossing it, the lower part of the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve giving off branches to these muscles (pp. 442 and 676). The popliteus muscle is to be preserved to be dissected more particularly with the knee-joint. The plantaris and soleus muscles are to be separated from their superior attachments, and the nature and connexions of the tendo Achillis examined (p. 285) ; after which the latter may be divided near its insertion. The deep fascia is then to be divided, and the flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus pollicis muscles, lying in this order from within outwards, are to be dissected (pp. 286 and 288). The anterior tibial artery will be seen perforating the inter- osseous membrane to arrive at the front of the leg, and the posterior tibial artery, vense comites, and nerve are to be studied, and the branches of the nerve to the popliteus and other three deep muscles followed ; while the peroneal artery is to be traced downwards in the fibres of the flexor longus pollicis muscle, and will be observed to give off the anterior peroneal and a communicating branch to the posterior tibial artery (pp. 444 and 677). The relations of the tendons, artery and nerve behind and below the inner ankle are to be particularly noted. 6. The Sole of the Foot.—The skin is to be reflected by means of an incision along the middle line of the heel and sole, and a transverse one across the balls of the toes. The plantar cutaneous branch of the posterior tibial nerve is to be traced to its distribution ; and on removing the fat from the plantar aponeurosis, an outer and inner set of small nerves and vessels will also be found perforating the latter (p. 296). Below the inner ankle the internal annular ligament is to bo cleaned, and the tibialis posticus muscle is to be dissected to its insertion (pp. 288 and 295). The skin is to be divided up the middle of the toes ; the sheaths for the flexor tendons are to be exhibited, and the digital arteries and nerves on both sides of each of them are to be traced. The plantar aponeurosis is then to be removed by dissection from the muscle? which it covers as much as possible, so as to expose the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti muscles (p. 289). The insertions of the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum are to be followed by dividing the sheaths on the toes ; its posterior attachment is to be divided, and the branch of the internal plantar nerve which supplies it sought. This will bring into view the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, the union of which will be noted ; the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales muscles will now also be dissected (p. 287). Crossing the flexor accessorius muscle are the external plantar artery and nerve ; the artery is to be followed to the deeper part of its course where it forms the plantar arch. The branches of the nerve to the flexor accessorius and abductor minimi digiti are to be found, its distribution to the two outer toes is to be traced, as also-the origin of its deep branch (p. 679). The flexor accessorius muscle is to be removed from its broad origin, and the tendons of the flexor longus pollicis and flexor longus digitorum are then to be divided. The internal