1042 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERIN^^UM. accordiog as the erectile tissue is more or les^ diatencled. The parb of the rectum now under consideration narrows to its end under the influence of the sphincters. It is supported by the levatores ani, which are fixed to iU sides, and by the pelvic fascia on the inner surface of those muscles. From this, its shortest and narrowest part, the intestine sweeps into the hollow of the sacrum, widening considerably at the same time so as to form a large pouch. This part, which is known as the second division of the rectum, has before it the prostate and the urinary bladder with the semin il vesicles, and above these the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. The Fig. 717. Fig. 717.—The Prostate Gland and Base of the Bladder exposed in the Perineum. Besides the superficial fascia and the perineal muscles, by the removal of which the spongy erectile tissue and the crura penis were uncovered, the anterior layer of the deep perineal ftiscia was cut away in the preparation for this sketch, and thus the pudic arteries with their branches for the bulb, and Cowper's glands, have been laid bare. The rectum, too, having been dissected from its connc:;tions and drawn back, the prostate gland, the seminal vesicles, and part of the urinary bladder have been brought into view. 1, fascia lata covering the adductor muscles of the thigh ; 2, gluteus maximus ; 3, rectum ; 4, crus penis of left side ; 5, corpus spongiosum urethrge ; 6, prostate ; 7, vesicula serainalis and vas deferens of left side ; 8, a small part of the uriuai*y bladder ; 9, right dorsal artery, with the artery of the bulb and Cowpers gland resting against the inner layer of the deep perineal fascia. The last-named parts are at considerable depth, but the size within which it was necessary to restrict the drawing, did not admit of the appearance of depth being sufficiently represented. rectum and the bladder are in contact with each other only iu the small triangular space intercepted bet sveen the seminal vessels and the peritoneum ; and in this space the bladder may be punctured, in order to evacuate its contents. In performing the operation, the chief guide to the surgeon is the prostate. The instrument is to be passed forwards iato the bladder behind this gland ; but care must be taken to regulate the distance from its margin, so as to avoid wounding on the one hand the vasa deferentia which come into apposition one with another immediately behind it ; and, on the other hand, the peritoneum where this membrane turns from one of the organs to the other. At the same time it is to be remembered, that by the inclination of the trocar to either side the seminal vesicles would be