THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 692 The superficial cardiac nerve of tlie left side has, while in the neck, the same course and connections as that of the right ride. But within the chest it follows the left carotid artery to the arch of the aorta, and ends in some instances in the superficial cardiac plexus, while in others it joins the deep plexus ; and accordingly it passes either in front of or behind the arch of the aorta. 4. BRANCHES TO BLOOD-VESSELS. The nerves which ramify on the arteries (nervi molles) spring from the front of the ganglion, and twine round the trunk of the carotid artery. They are prolonged on each branch of the external carotid, and form slender plexuses upon them. Communications with other nerves.—From the plexus on the facial artery is derived the filament which joins the submaxillary ganglion; and, from that on the middle meningeal artery, twigs have been described as extending to the otic ganglion, as well as to the gangliform enlargement of the facial nerve. Lastly, a communication is established between the plexus on the carotid artery and the digastric branch of the facial nerve. Small ganglia are occasionally found on some of the vascular plexuses, close to the origin of the vessels with which they are associated. Thus lingual, temporal, and pharyngeal ganglia have been described ; and besides these there is a larger body, the ganglion intercaroticum, placed on the inner side of the angle of division of the common carotid artery. This body, long known to anatomists as a ganglion, has been stated by Luschka to have a structure very different from the nervous ganglia in general, and has been named by him the " glandula intercarotica." The ganglion intercaroticum was described by Luschka as presenting principally a follicular structure, and regarded by him as being of a nature similar to the glan- dula coccygea, which he had previously discovered. It appears, however, from the researches of Julius Arnold, that the follicular appearances observed by Luschka, both in this instance and in the coccygeal gland, were produced by arterial glomeruli seen in section; and that the ganglion intercaroticum consists of numbers of those glome- ruli gathered into several larger masses, and of dense plexuses of nerves surrounding respectively the glomeruli, the masses, and the whole structure. Within those plex- uses nerve-cells are scattered, but not in very great number. The ganglion is usually about one-fourth of an inch long; but, according to Luschka, may be divided into small separate masses, and thus escape attention, or be supposed to be absent.— (Luschka, Anat. d. Menschen, vol. i. 1862; and Julius Arnold, in Yirchow's Archiv., June, 1865.) MIDDLE CEE,VICAL GANGLION. The middle ganglion (ganglion thyroideum), much the smallest of the cervical ganglia, is placed on or near the inferior thyroid artery. It is usually connected with the fifth and sixth spinal nerves, but in a somewhat variable manner. It gives off thyroid branches and the middle cardiac nerve. Thyroid branches.—From the inner side of the ganglion some twigs proceed along the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid body, where they join the recurrent laryngeal and the external laryngeal nerves. Whilst on the artery these branches communicate with the upper cardiac nerve. The middle cardiac nerve (nervus cardiacus profundus v. magnus) of the right side is prolonged to the chest behind the sheath of the common carotid artery, and either in front of or behind the subclavian artery. In the