MALPIGHIAN CORrUSCLES OF THE SPLEEN. 887 Mal2nghian corpuscles.—On closely inspecting the surface of a section of the spleen, a number of light-coloured spots of variable size are generally seen. For the most part these are evidently the ends of divided trabeculie or blood-vessels ; but in the ox, pig, sheep, and some other animals, and also in the human subject, there are found distinct whitish vesicular-looking bodies, attached to the trabeculte which support the small arteries, and imbedded, in groups of six or eight together, in the dark red substance of the spleen. These small vesicular bodies, the Malpigliian corpuscles of the spleen, are capsules, varying in diameter from -^-^th. to g^'^yth of an inch, and consisting of two coats, the external of which is apparently continuous with the trabecular tissue supporting the arteries. They are filled with a soft, whitish, semi-fluid matter, which contains microscopic globules, resembling, except in colour, those composing the red pulp of the spleen. It may be remarked, that both these kinds of globules are very like the chyle corpuscles. The vesicular bodies are attached in groups to minute arterial branches; in some of the lower animals they are sessile, but in the human spleen they are pedunculated. In all cases it is established that they are expansions of the sheaths of the arteries ; those which are sessile are placed usually in the angle of division of two arteries, and are formed by expansion on one side Fig. 622.—Malpighian Corpuscles op Fig. 622. THE Dog's Spleen (from Kolliker). J. 10 The figure shows a portion of a small artery, to one of the twigs of which the Malpighian corpuscles are attached. only of the vessels on which they are placed ; those which are pe- dunculated are pierced by the artery on which they are placed, the expanded sheath having been difi'used, as it were, in the cap- sule, round the vessel (Stieda and Henle). Their walls pass gra- dually into the pulp on the out- side, and on the inside into the contents of the follicle (Busk and Huxley). Capillaries likewise are found within them. The lymphatic vessels of the spleen, according to Cruikshank and Mascagni, form a superficial and a deep set. The superficial set appear as a network beneath the serous coat, receive occasional branches from the substance of the spleen, and run towards the hilus. The deep lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels, and emerge with them at the hilus, whence, communicating with the superficial set, they proceed along the gastro-splenic omentum to the neighbouring lymphatic glands : the mode in which they commence in the spleen is unknown. The lymphatics of the human spleen, at least the superficial set, are allowed by all to be very difficult to inject. But even in the domestic animals, in which the process is usually more successful, recent observers have not been so fortunate as Cruikshank and Mascagni. The splenic nerves derived from the solar plexus, surround and accompany the splenic artery and its branches. They have been traced by Eemak deeply into the interior of the organ.