THE TONGUE. 805 anterior permanent teeth very nearly corresponds with that which had been occupied by the ten milk-teeth ; the difference in width between the incisors of the two sets being compensated for by the smallness of the bicuspids in comparison with the milk molars to which they succeed. Lastly, the angle formed by the ramus and body of the lower jaw differs at different ages ; thus it is obtuse in the infant, approaches nearer to a right angle in the adult, and again becomes somewhat obtuse in old age. (See p. 52.) Relation of the blood-vessels and nerves to the tooth.—There is no evidence that the blood-vessels send branches into the hard substance. The red stain sometimes observed in the teeth, after death by asphyxia, and the red spots occasionally found in the dentine, are due to the imbibition of blood effused on the surface of the pulp. The dentine formed in young animals fed upon madder is tinged with that colouring matter, but this does not appear to take place when the growth of the tooth is com- pleted. Nevertheless the tubules of the dentine may serve to convey through its substance nutrient fluid poured out by the blood-vessels of the pulp. The teeth are sometimes stained yellow in jaundice. According to Czermak the primitive nerve tubules run into the tooth-pulp in bundles, which are large towards the centre, and small at the periphery. They lose themselves in a plexus at the surface of the pulp. Czermak states that the fibres often divide, but that he has not seen loops frequently, and he is doubtful as to the precise mode of their termination. THE TONGUE. The tongue is a muscular organ covered with mucous membrane. By its muscular structure it takes part in the processes of mastication and deglu- tition, and in the articulation of speech, while its mucous membrane is endowed with common sensibility and is the seat of the sense of taste. The tongue occupies the concavity of the arch of the lower jaw : posteriorly it is connected with the hyoid bone, and the back part of its dorsum forms the floor of the arch of the fauces; inferiorly it receives from base to apex the fibres of the genio-glossus muscle, and through the medium of that muscle is attached to the lower jaw. A.—Mucous Membrane.—On the under surface of the tongue the mucous membrane is smooth and thin. It forms a fold in the middle line, called the froenum linguce, placed in front of the anterior border of the genio-glossi muscles. On each side below, as the mucous membrane passes from the tongue to the inner surface of the gums, it is reflected over the sublingual gland. Not far from the line continued forwards from the frsenum, the ranine vein may be distinctly seen through the mucous membrane, and close to it lies the ranine artery. Further outwards is an elevated line with a fimbriated margin directed outwards, which extends to the tip. The ducts of the right and left submaxillary glands end by papillary orifices placed close together, one on each side of the frsenum; and further back, in the groove between the sides of the tongue and the lower jaw, are found the orifices of the several ducts belonging to the sublingual glands. The upper surface or dorsum of the tongue is convex in its general out- line, and is marked along the middle in its whole length by a slight furrow called the raphe, which indicates its bilateral symmetry. About half an inch from the base of the tongue, the raphe often terminates in a depres- sion, closed at the bottom, which is called the foramen caecum (Morgagni), and in which several mucous glands and follicles open. Three folds, named the glosso-epiglottic folds or frsenula, of which the middle one is the largest (frsenum epiglottidis), pass backwards from the base of the tongue to the epiglottis. The upper surface of the tongue is completely covered with