609 canal of the facial nerve. OTIC AND SUBMAXILLARY GANGLIA. thetic by a filament from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery. It likewise receives the small superjicial petrosal nerve, which emerges from the petrous bone by the small foramen internal to the canal of the tensor tympani muscle, and reaches the exterior of the skull by piercing the sphenoid bone close to the foramen spinosum. By this nerve the ganglion forms a communication with the glosso-pharyngeal and facial nerves. Fig. 410, — Otic Ganglion AND ITS Connections FROM THE INSIDE (frOm Sappey after Arnold). | This figure exhibits a view of the lateral portion of the skull with a part of the nasal fossa and lower jaw of the right side ; the petrous bone has been re- moved so as to show the inner surface of the mem- brana tympani and the 1, smaller motor root of the fifth nerve passing down on the inside of the Gasserian ganglion to unite with the inferior maxillary division ; 2, infei'ior dental nerve entering the canal of the lower jaw; 3, mylo- hyoid branch, seen also farther down emerging in front of the internal ptery- goid muscle; 4, lingual or gustatory nerve; 5, chorda tympani ; 6, facial nerve in its canal; 7, auriculo-temporal nerve, enclosing in its loop of origin the middle meningeal artery; 8, otic ganglion; 9, small superficial petrosal nerve joining the ganglion; 10, branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; 11, twig connecting the ganglion with the teniporo- auricular nerve; 12, twig to the ganglion from the sympathetic nerves on the meningeal artery; 13, branch to the internal pterygoid muscle; 14, branch to the tensor palati muscle. Branches.—Two small nerves are distributed to muscles—one to the tensor of the membrane of the tympanum, the other to the circumflexus or tensor palati. SUBMAXILLARY GANGLIOTST, The submaxillary ganglion is placed above the deep portion of the sub- maxillary gland, and is connected by filaments with the gustatory nerve. It is about the size of the ophthalmic ganglion. By the upper part or base it receives branches from nerves which may be regarded as its roots, whilst from the lower part proceed the filaments which are distributed from the ganglion. Connection with nerves—roots.—This ganglion receives filaments from the gustatory nerve, and likewise, at its back part, a root which appa- rently comes from the gustatory nerve, but is in reality derived from the chorda tympani, which is prolonged downwards in the sheath of the gustatory nerve. It receives also small twigs from the sympathetic filaments on the facial artery. Branches.—Some nerves, five or six in number, radiate to the substance Fig. 410.