DIVISION III. DISSECTIONS. The object of tlie following Directions is to serve as a short and simple guide for the display of the structure of the body by students in dissecting- rooms, the various organs and their parts being mentioned in the order in which they may best be exposed, and such methods being indicated as may enable each student to obtain the greatest amount of information from his dissection, and at the same time to prevent interference among the neigh- bouring dissectors as much as possible. I. GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF THE DISSECTIONS. 1. In different schools various plans are pursued in the allotment of portions of the body to different dissectors. According to the method here recommended, the subject is divided into ten parts, five on each side of the body, which are left in connection with one another until the dissection is sufficiently advanced to admit of their being conveniently sepa- rated. The boundaries of the parts are so adjusted, that by their due observance interference between the different dissectors may be as much as possible avoided. 2. In the case of a male subject, a day is recommended to be set apart at the commencement for the dissection of the perinseum. Thereafter, and in the case of a female subject, immediately on its being brought into the rooms, the subject is to be placed with the face downwards for four days, during which time the posterior regions are to be dissected, in so far as within reach, in the order afterwards mentioned for each part. It is then to be turned and laid upon its back, when a dissection of the various parts in front is to be made. The whole dissection is supposed to be completed within six weeks,—the time fixed by the Anatomy Act. 3. The dissection of the head and neck and of the limbs should be begun at once when the subject is laid upon its face ; that of the abdomen as soon as it is turned on the back, and the thorax must not be opened until the upper limbs are removed. The limbs ought not to be removed until the parts which connect them with the trunk have been fully dissected, and an opportunity has been given for the examination of the surgical anatomy of the subclavian artery and the parts concerned in hernia, by the dissectors of the head and the abdomen ; all of which may be accomplished before the tenth day. The further dissection of the several parts may then proceed in accordance with the methods suggested in the special directions.