SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HERNIA. 1024 with the two layers of fascia (the iiifuudibuliform and spermatic fascite) between which those fibres are placed, are very thin in their natural state ; but they may be readily distinguished in a surgical operation from the investing superficial fascia, by their comparative density and the absence of fat. In order to examine the peritoneum at the groin, it will be best to divide that membrane with the abdominal muscles by two incisions drawn from the umbilicus—one to the hip-bone, the other to the pubes. The flap thus formed being held somewhat outwards, and kept tense, a favourable view will be obtained of the two fosste {inguinal fossoe or pouches) with the intervening crescentic fold. This fold is formed by the cord remaining from the obliterated umbilical artery, which, being shorter than the outer surface of the serous sac, causes this to project inwards ; and as the length of the cord differs in diff"erent cases, so likewise do the size and prominence of the peritoneal fold vary accordingly. The lowest part of the outer fossa will be generally found opposite to the entrance into the internal abdominal ring and ihe femoral ring, while the inner one corresponds with the situation of the external abdominal ring. But the cord representing the umbilical artery, which, it has been stated, causes the projection of the serous membrane into a fold, does not uniformly occupy the same position in all cases. Most frequently it is separated by an interval from the epigastric artery, while in some cases it is immediately behind that vessel. There is necessarily a corresponding variation in the extent of the external peritoneal fossa. This fact will find its practical application when the internal form of inguinal hernia is under consideration. Between the peritoneum and the fascia lining the abdominal muscles is a connecting layer of areolar structure, named the subserous areolar mem- brane. A considerable quantity of fat is in some cases found in this membrane. The relative position of some of the parts above referred to may be here conveniently stated, by means of measurements, made by Su- A. Cooper, and adopted after examination by J. Cloquet. But as the distance between given parts varies in different cases, the following measurements must be regarded only as a general average :— MALE. FEMALE. From the symphysis of the pubes to the anterior 1 i^^ches. 6 inches. superior spine of the ilium . . • J " From the same point to the spine of the pubes . .Ig ,, •••If ,, to the inner part of the external] 2 abdominal ring . . . . . J ^ " ■" " to the inner edge of the internal 1 g gi abdominal ring . . . . . J " ' • • 4 > > ,, ta the epigastric aitery on the! 21 2- inner side of the internal abdominal ring ■ j * '' " ^ " From the preceding account of the structure of the abdominal wall at the groin, it will be inferred that the defence against the protrusion of the viscera from the cavity is here weaker than at other parts. The external oblique muscle and the fascia transversalis are perforated, while the two intervening muscles are thinner than elsewhere, and more or less defec- tive. To this it must be added that the viscera are impelled towards the same part of the abdomen by the contraction of the diaphragm and the other abdominal muscles in the production of efforts to overcome