1060 DISSECTION OF THE UPrER LIMBS. outer and lower borders of the latissimus dorsi, the serratus magaus, and the pectoralis major muscles. 1. Muscles of the Back; Spinal Cord:—Duriug the first four days, while the subject is lying on its face, the dissection of the back and spinal cord below the level of the third cervical vertebra is to be completed. Let an incision be made in the middle line from the level of the third cervical vertebra to the sacrum, a second from the acromion to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, and a third from the point where the fold of the axilla meets the arm to the acromion. If the student be a beginner, let him at once dissect out the trapezius muscle in the direction of its fibres (except the part of it which falls withiu the boundary of the dissection of the head and neck), and afterwards the latissimus dorsi, following up its fibres as close as possible to the tendon of insertion ; but let him not reflect the skin further than is necessary to exhibit the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi (p. 200). If the student be a senior, he will, previous to the dissection of these muscles, also display the cutaneous branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves, which lie upon their surface (p. 633). The trapezius muscle is to be divided by a vertical incision at the dis- tance of two inches from its vertebral attachment, and on its deep aspect the spinal accessory nerve and the superficial cervical artery are to be dis- played (pp. 625 and 373). The rhomboid and levator anguli scapulae muscles may then be dissected (pp. 202 and 643), and the nerve to the rhomboids, reaching their deep surfcice from above. The latissimus dorsi muscle is to be divided by means of an incision carried along its attachment to the lumbar fascia from its superior border, at about three inches from its vertebral attachment, downwards and outwards towards the external border, leaving uncut the slips attached to the lower ribs and crest of the ilium. The rhomboid muscles are also to be divided, and the posterior scapular artery dissected (p. 373). The serrati postici superior and inferior muscles may then be dissected, and the vertebral aponeurosis seen (pp. 233 and 240) ; after which a view may be obtained of the serratus magnus muscle from its internal aspect (p. 207). The posterior serrati muscles and the vertebral aponeurosis may now hi divided, and the dissection of the muscles composing the erector spinte may be proceeded with (p. 234). Beginning with the ilio-costalis or sacro lumbalis muscle, the student will dissect first its six or seven slips of direct insertion into the lower ribs, then the slips attached to the upper ribs, constituting the musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem : he will afterwards turn the muscle outwards and trace the separate heads of origin of the musculus accessorius from the lower ribs into their insertions above ; and also the similar origins of the ascendens cervicis muscle from the upper ribs. He will next treat the longissimus dorsi muscle in the same manner, dissecting first the costal insertions on its outer side, and then, having separated it from the spinalis dorsi muscle (which always requires the division of a tendon running between the two muscles), make out the insertions into the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The issue of posterior branches of spinal nerves, and of intercostal and lumbar vessels, will guide the dissector to the separation of the masses of muscle (pp. 633 and 404). The con- tinuation of the long muscles into the ascendens cervicis and transversalis cervicis, and the origins of the trachelo-mastoid, are then to be traced upwards in the neck. To see the last-named muscle, however, the splenius muscle must be dissected and vertically divided ; and the complexus and