825 SITUATION OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. lower tliree-fiftlis, is disposed in moveable convolutions, and is attached posteriorly by a broad mesentery to the abdominal wall. It occupies the umbilical and hypogastric regions, from the back part of which the mesen- tery takes origin, and it extends likewise into the lumbar and iliac regions, besides gravitating into the pelvis. The ileum terminates abruptly in the right iliac region in the caput cmcum, a cul-de-sac in which the great intestine commences. The caecum is continued into the ascending colon, which lies against the posterior wall of the abdomen, as it passes up through the right lumbar to the right hypochondriac region. The ascending colon is succeeded by the transverse colon which passes transversely, or with a pendulous curve, across the abdomen from right to left, resting on the small intestines. Below Fig. 578. —Diagram of the abdo- -^'S- MINAL PART OP THE AlIMENTART Canal. 1, the stomacli; 2, the lower part of the gullet ; 3, the left cul-de- sac, and, 4, the pyloric end of the stomach ; 5, 6 the duodenum ; 7, 8, convolutions of the small intes- tine ; 9, caecum; 10, the vermi- form process; 11, ascending, 12, transverse, and, 13, descending colon ; 14, commencement of the sigmoid flexure ; 15, rectum. the spleen, the transverse colon is continued into the descending colon which extends down through the left lumbar to the left iliac region, where it is continued into the more loosely-bound sigmoid flexure^ which occupies that fossa and falls into the rectum. Within the pelvis, the ex- tension downwards of the peritoneal cavity is termed the recto-vesical fossa: pos- teriorly the rectum is ob- served, and anteriorly the sloping upper wall of the urinary bladder; while, in the female, the uterus projects upwards between the rectum and bladder, so that a recto- uterine pouch is formed, and the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are pendant at its sides. The bladder when fall, and the uterus in its gravid state, project upwards into the abdomen, and displace more or less of intestine. Subjoined is an enumeration of the organs situated in the regions of the abdomen. the small different