869 LOBULES OF THE HEPATIC SUBSTANCE. divided into twelve lobes; and similar cases of subdivided liver (resembling that of some animals) have been now and then observed by others. A detached portion, forming a sort of accessory liver, is occasionally found appended to the left extremity of the gland by a fold of peritoneum containing blood-vessels. The gall-bladder is occasionally Avanting; in which case the hepatic duct is much dilated within the liver, or in some part of its course. Sometimes the gall-bladder is irregular in form, or is constricted across its middle, or, but much more rarely, it is partially divided in a longitudinal direction. Direct communications by means of small ducts (named hepato-cystic), passing from the liver to the gall-bladder, exist regularly in various animals; and they are sometimes found, as an unusual formation, in the human subject. The right and left divisions of the hepatic duct sometimes continue separate for some distance within the gastro-hepatic omentum. Lastly, the common bile duct not unfrequently opens into the duodenum, apart from the pancreatic duct. STRUCTUEE OF THE LIVER, Coats.—The liver has tvs^o coverings, viz. a serous or peritoneal invest- ment, already sufficiently referred to, and a proper areolar coat. The areolar or fibrous coat invests the whole gland. Opposite to the parts covered by the serous coat, it is thin and difficult to demonstrate ; but vi^here the peritoneal coat is absent, as at the posterior border of the liver, and in the portal fissure, it is denser and more evident. Its inner surface is attached to the hepatic glandular substance, being there continuous Fig. 606. Fig. 606.—Section of a Poktion op Liver passing Longitubinallt through a con- siderable Hepatic Vein, from tee Pig (after Kiernan). f H, hepatic venous trunk, against which the sides of the lobules (Z) are applied ; A, h, A, sublobular hepatic veins, on which the bases of the lobules rest, and through the coats of which they are seen as polygonal figures ; i, mouth of the intralobular veins, opening into the sublobular veins ; i\ intralobular veins shown passing up the centre of some divided lobules ; I, Z, cut surface of the liver; c, c, walls of the hepatic venous canal, formed by the polygonal bases of the lobules.