SYNOPSIS OF MUSCULAR NERVES. 684 The sole of the foot is supplied by the plantar nerves. The internal plantar nerve gives branches to three toes and a half; the external to the remaining one toe and a half. SYNOPSIS OF THE MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION OF THE CEREBRO SPINAL NERVES. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FORE PART OF THE NECK. The muscles of the orbit are mostly supplied by the third cranial nerve^— the superior division of that nerve being distributed to the levator palpebrse and the superior rectus muscles ; and the inferior division to the inferior and internal recti and the inferior oblique. The superior oblique muscle is supplied by the fourth nerve, the external rectus by the sixth ; while the tensor tarsi has no special nerve apart from those of the orbicularis palpebrarum, which are derived from the facial. The superficial muscles of the face and scalp^ which are associated in their action as a group of muscles of expression, are supplied by the portio dura of the seventh cranial nerve; the retrahens auriculam and occipitalis muscles being supplied by the posterior auricular branch. The deep muscles of the facCy employed in mastication, viz., the temporal, masseter, buccinator and two pterygoid muscles, are supplied by the inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve. Muscles above the hyoid bone.—The mylo-hyoid muscle and anterior belly of the digastric are supplied by a special branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve ; the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and the stylo-hyoid, are supplied by branches of the portio dura. The genio-hyoid and the muscles of the tongue receive their nervous supply from the hypoglossal nerve. The muscles ascending to the hyoid bone and larynx, viz., the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, are supplied from the ramus descendens noni and its loop with the cervical plexus, while the thyro-hyoid muscle receives a separate twig from the ninth nerve. The larynx, pharynx, and soft palate.—The crico-thyroid muscle is sup- plied by the external laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the other intrinsic muscles of the larynx by the recurrent laryngeal. The muscles of the pharynx are supplied principally by the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric; the stylo-pharyngeus, however, is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Of the muscles of the soft palate unconnected with the tongue or pharynx, the tensor palati receives its nerve from the otic ganglion (which also supplies the tensor tympani) ; the levator palati gets a twig (Meckel) from the posterior palatine branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion, and the azygos uvulse is probably supplied from the same source. MUSCLES BELONGING EXCLUSIVELY TO THE TRUNK, AND MUSCLES ASCENDING TO THE SKULL. All those muscles of the bach which are unconnected with the upper limb, viz., the posterior serrati, the splenius, complexus, erector spinas, and the muscles more deeply placed, receive their supply from the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. The sterno-mastoid is supplied by the spinal accessory nerve and a twig of the cervical plexus coming from the seconc^ cervical nerve.