984 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. from its vaginal attachment, is lower in position, and, when the tube is closed, rests on the posterior wall of the vagina. These borders or lips are generally smooth, but, after parturition, they frequently become irregular, and are sometimes fissured or cleft. Fig. 6S5. Fig. 685.—Posterior View op the Uterus and its Appendages. The cavity of the uterus has been opened by the removal of the posterior wall, and the upper part of the vagina has been laid open; a, fundus ; b, body ; c, cervix ; d, on the anterior lip of tlie os uteri externum ; e, the interior of the vagina ; /, section of the walls of the uterus ; i, opening of the Fallopian tube ; o> ovary ; ligament of the ovary ; r, broad ligament; s, Fallopian tube ; t, its fimbriated extremity. Owing to the great thickness of its walls, the cavity of the uterus is very small in proportion to the size of the organ. The part within the body of the organ is triangular, and flattened from before backwards, so that its anterior and posterior walls touch each other. The base of the triangle is directed upwards, and is curvilinear, the convexity being turned towards the interior of the uterus. This form is owing to the prolongation of the cavity through the substance of the organ towards its two superior angles, where two minute foramina lead into the Fallopian tubes. At the point where the body is continuous below with the neck, the cavity is slightly constricted, and thus forms what is sometimes named the internal orifice (os uteri inter' num, isthmus vel ostium uteri) ; it is often smaller than the os externum, and is a circular opening. That portion of the cavity which is within the neck, resembles a tube slightly flattened before and behind ; it is some- what dilated in the middle, and opens inferiorly into the vagina by the os tincse. Its inner surface is marked by two longitudinal ridges or columns, which run, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior wall, and from both of which rugee are directed obliquely upwards on each side, so as to present an appearance which has been named arbor vitoe uterinus, also palmce jplicatm : this structure is most strongly marked anteriorly. Structure. —The walls of the uterus consist of an external serous cover- ing, an internal mucous membrane, and an intermediate proper tissue. The peritoneal layer covers the fundus and body, except at the sides and for about half an inch of the lower part of the body in front, which is attached to the base of the bladder. The proper tissue of the uterus constitutes much the greater part of its walls, which are thickest opposite the middle of the body and fundus,