THE EAE. 762 neck of a flask, and enters the membranous canal abruptly nearly at a right angle to it. Thus the cavity of the canalis membranacea is rendered con- tinuous with that of the saccule. and posterior canals; u, utriculus ; of the membranous canal of the cochlea sacculus ; c, cochlea. Fig. 519.—The Left Labyrinth op A Child at Birth, partially OPENED ON ITS OUTER SIDE TO SHOW THE COMMENCEMENT OP THE MEM- BRANOUS Canal op the Cochlea (slightly altered after Reichert). f The external or horizontal canal has been removed ; c s, superior canal; cp, posterior canal; as, membranous am- pulla and tube of the superior canal cut short ; ah, that of the external or horizontal canal; h, undilated end of the horizontal canal in front of the common opening of the superior and posterior canals; ps, united superior sacculus ; c c, vestibular part or commencement CI', canalis reuniens connecting it with the It is necessary to explain that although the canalis membranacea was described by Eeissner so long ago as in 1851, yet, owing to some confusion having arisen between the membrane of Eeissner and the membrana tectoria described by Corti, whose work appeared at the same time, the nature of this canal has until comparatively Fig. 520. running spirally along the gangliform swelling (Henle) ; 3, of nerve fibres as in A. Fig, 520.—Distribution OP THE Cochlear Nerves in the Lamina Spiralis (after Henle). A, part of the modiolus and spiral lamina showing the cochlear nerves form- ing a network, viewed from the base ; 1, the twigs of the nerve issuing from the tractus spiralis foramino- sus ; 2, the branches of the nerve entering by the central canal of the modi- olus ; 3, wide plexus in the bony lamina spiralis ; 4, close plexus at its border ; 11, labium tym- panicum ; zi, zona interna ; ze, zona externa ; Isp, ligamentum spirale. B, part of the nerves ex- tracted and more highly magnified ; 2, twigs of the nerve from the modiolus close to the lamina spiralis ossea ; gs, spiral gangli- form enlargement of the nerve (habenaria gang- lionaris) ; fs, nerve fibres wide plexus ; 4, close plexus