THE LUNGS. Fig. 628. m Fig. 628. SEMIDIAGRAiniATIC REPRESENTA- also upon portions? of foetal or adult lung injected with mercury. In the luugs of some animals, as of the lion, cat, and dog, they are very large, and are distinctly visible on the surface of the organ. In the adult human lung their most common diameter is about ^^oth of an inch, but it varies from -x^-o'^^^ To*^ '^^ ' '''^^y larger on the surface than in the interior, and largest towards the thin edges of the organ : they are also said to be very large at the apex of the lung. Their dimensions go on increasing from birth to old age, and they are larger in men than in women. In the infant their diameter is usually under -o^oth of an inch. The small bronchial tube entering each lobule divides and subdivides from four to nine times, according to the size of the lobule ; its branches, which diverge at less and less acute angles, at first diminish at each subdi- vision, but afterwards continue stationary in size, being from -^\ih. to -joth of an inch in diameter. They lose at last their cylindrical form, and are converted into irregular lobular jpassages, beset, at first sparingly, but after- wards closely and on all sides, with numerous little recesses or dilat itions, and ultimately terminate near the surface of the lobule in a group of similar recesses. These small recesses, whether seated along the course or at the TION OP Two Small Lobuli from near thk Surface of the Lung of a NE^y-BoRN Child (from Kolliker). 'il a, exterior of the two lobuli or infundibula ; 6, pulmonary vesicles or alveoli on these and on c, the smallest bronchial ramifications. extremity of an air passage, are the air- cells or alveoli; and each group of alveoli with the comparatively large passage between them constitutes an infundi- hulum, so called from the manner in which it dilates from the extremity of the bronchia] tube. The arrangement of these finest air passages and air cells closely resembles, though on a smaller scale, the reticulated structure of the tortoise's lung, in which large open passages lead in all directions to clusters of wide alveoli, separated from each other by intervening septa of various depths. At the point where the small bronchial tubes lose their cylindrical character, and become covered on all sides with the cells, their structural elements also undergo a change. The muscular layer disappears, the longi- tudinal elastic bundles are broken up into an interlacement of areolar and elastic tissue, which surrounds the tubes and forms the basis of their walls. The mucous membrane becomes exceedingly delicate, consisting merely of a thin transparent membrane, covered by a stratum of squamous instead of ciliated cylindrical epithelium. The walls of the alveoli, their orifices, and the margins of the septa, are supported and strengthened by scattered and coiled elastic fibres, in addition to which, according to Moleschott, Gerlach, and Hirschmanu, there is like- wise an intermixture of muscular fibres. It was stated by Rainey, and corroborated by Todd and Bowman, and it is still maintained by Henle, Luschka, and others, that the alveoli are destitute of all epithelium. The