FORM AND SITUATION OF THE LUNGS. 895 The outer surface of the lung, which moves upou the thoracic parietes, is smooth, convex, and of great extent, corresponding with the arches of the ribs and costal cartilages. It is of greater depth behind than in front. The posterior border is obtuse or rounded, and is received into the deep groove formed by the ribs at the side of the vertebral column ; measured from above downwards, it is the deepest part of the lung. The anterior border is thin and overlaps the pericardium, forming a sharp margin, which touches the sides of the anterior mediastinum, and, opposite the middle of the sternum, is separated during inspiration from the corresponding margin of the opposite lung only by the two thin and adherent layers of the mediastinal septum. The iuner surface is concave, and in part adapted to the convex pericardium. Upon this surface, somewhat above the middle of the lung, and considerably nearer to the posterior than the anterior border, is the root^ where the bronchi and great vessels join the lung. Each lung is traversed by a long and deep fissure, which is directed from above and behind, downwards and forwards. It commences upon the posterior border of the lung, about three inches from the apex, and extends obliquely downwards to the anterior and inferior angle, penetrating from the outer surface to within some inches of the root of the organ. The upper lohe, the portion of lung which is situated above this fissure, is smaller than the portion below, and is shaped like a cone with an oblique base, whilst the lower and larger lobe is more or less quadrilateral. In the right lung there is a second and shorter fissure, which runs forwards and upwards from the principal fissure to the anterior margin, thus marking olf a third small portion, or middle lohe^ which appears like an angular piece separated from the anterior and lower part of the upper lobe. The left lung, which has no such middle lobe, presents a deep notch in its anterior border, into which the apex of the heart (enclosed in the pericardium) is received. This notch is formed by the rapid retreat of the anterior margin of the upper lobe from the middle line, opposite the lower half of the sternum ; while in- feriorly a tongue-like process of the lower lobe usually projects slightly inwards towards the middle line. Besides these difi"erences in form which distinguish the lungs, it is to be noted that the right lung is shorter, but at the same time wider, than the left, the perpendicular measurement of the former being less, owing to the diaphragm rising higher on the right side to accommodate the liver, whilst the breadth of the left lung is narrowed, owing to the heart and pericardium encroaching on the left half of the thorax. On the whole, however, as is seen on a comparison of their weights, the right is the larger of the two lungs. At the apices and posterior borders the extent of the lungs accurately cor- responds with that of the pleural sacs which contain them, but at the anterior and inferior margins it is not so : the anterior margins pass forwards most completely between the mediastinal and costal pleura during inspiration, and retire to a variable degree from between them in expiration ; and in like manner the inferior margins descend, during inspiration, between the costal and diaphragmatic pleurae, while probably at no time do they ever descend completely to the line of reflection between those membranes. Weight, Dimensions, and Capacity.—The lungs vary much in size and weight according to the quantity of blood, mucus, or serous fluid they may happen to contain, which is greatly influenced by the circumstances im- mediately preceding death, as well as by other causes. The weight of both lungs together, as generally stated, ranges from thirty to forty-eight ounces, the more prevalent weights being found between thirty-six and forty-two ounces. The proportion borne by the right lung to the left is nearly that of