DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 1068 being cleared away from the trunks of vessels entering and emerging from the heart. The arch of the aorta may now be fully studied, and the cord of the ductus arteriosus displayed passing between the commencement of the left pulmonary artery and the arch of the aorta (pp. 3131 and 382). The students will then proceed to the dissection of the heart, examining first its external form (p. 302), and afterwards dissecting the right and left coronary arteries and the coronary vein (pp. 338 and 482), They will then make an opening into the right auricle, by means of one incision from the point of entrance of the vena cava superior to near the entrance of the vena cava inferior, and another from the auricular appendage to the middle of the first incision. They will remove and wash out the blood from the right side of the heart, and will particularly observe in the auricle the arrangement of the musculi pectinati, the annulus ovalis, the Eustachian valve guarding the vena cava inferior, the orifice of the coronary vein guarded by the valve of Thebesius, and the foramina Thebesii (p. 308). When the examination of the right auricle has been completed, the dis- sector will pass the forefinger of the left hand through the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and open the right ventricle by two incisions, one along the anterior border, close to the septum of the heart, prolonged upwards to the com- mencement of the pulmonary artery, and the other passing from the first, along the superior border of the vtiitricle, immediately below the auriculo- ventricular sulcus, care being taken not to injure the anterior segment of the tricuspid valve. The principal objects to be noted in this ventricle are the tricuspid valve with the chordae tendinese and musculi papillares which act upon it, the other arrangements of columnse carnese, the infundibulum, and the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery on their cardiac aspect. In exposing the latter, the incision into the ventricle should be carried into the pulmonary artery between two of the segments of the valve (p. 310). To examirie the left side of the heait, let the inferior vena cava be dissected a little out of its aperture in the diaphragm, and let it be divided, and the heart thrown upwards. The left auricle is then to be opened by a transverse incision near its ventricular margin, and by two short incisions at right angles to the first ; and after being carefully sponged cut, its cavity and auricular appendage, the remains of the valve of the foramen ovale, and the entrance of the pulmonary veins on each side will be examined (p. 311). The left ventricle is to be opened by a process similar to that employed for opening the right ; and after it is carefully cleaned, the mitral valve and its relation to the aortic orifice, and the cardiac aspect of the semilunar valves which guard the latter are to be studied (p. 312). 4. Leep Cardiac Nerves, BroncJii, cCc.— The aorta is to be divided within an inch above its origin, and the first part of the vessel is to be opened to examine the semilunar valves and the sinuses of Valsalva (p. 307). At this stage of the dissection a fuller examination may be made of the cardiac neives as they enter the superficial and deep cardiac plexus : the cardiac ganglion will also be found, and the coronary plexus traced a short way along the coronary vessels (p. 698). The dissectors may then divide the trachea an inch or two above its bifurcation, remove the heart and lungs, and examine more in detail the disposition and struc- ture of the bronchi (p. 888). 5. Farts in the posterior mediastinum, dx,—Heturning to the thoracic cavity, the dissectors will examine the oesophagus (p. 821), the descending aorta with its intercostal branches (p. 401), the main vena azygos, and its left branch (p. 469) and, lying between the vena azygos and aorta, the thoracic