THE CEREBELLUM. 522 prolonged throughout the whole height of the - pons in its back part, but becomes indistinct in approaching the front or basilar surface, except towards its upper and lower edge, where the superficial fibres of the pons are mani- festly continuous in the median line with these septal fibres. Bundles of white fibres, belonging to the same system, encircle the crura cerebri at their emergence from the upper border of the pons. According to Foville, a few fibres from each of the three principal longitudinal elements of the medulla turn forwards and become continuous with the transverse fibres of the pons ; and, in like manner, one or more small bundles from each of the crura cerebri take a similar transverse course. (Foville, op. cit., pi. II., figs. 2 and 3 ; pi. Ill,, figs. 5 and 6). The Cerebellum, hinder or after brain, consists of a body and of three pairs of crura or peduncles, by which it is connected with the rest of the encephalon. These crura are named superior, middle, and inferior. Fig. 354. Fig, 354,—Outline of the Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. 4 At the upper part of the figure, the crura cerebri and parts behind them have been cut through and left in con- nection with the cerebellum, III, the third pair of nerves lying upon the crura cerebri ; cr, white matter or crust of the crura cerebri; In, locus niger ; t, tegmentum contain- ing grey matter in the upper part of the crura; as, aqueduct of Sylvius ; q, corpora quadrigemina, the upper elevations divided; sv, superior vei*- miform process or central folia of the middle lobe of the cerebellum; Iq, lobulus quadratus; p s, posterior supe- rior lobe ; fh, horizontal fissure ; pi, posterior inferior lobe ; n, the notch between the hemispheres. The superior peduncles, crura ad cerebrum or processus ad testes, together with the valve of Vieussens, a lamina stretched between them, connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum. The inferior peduncles, crura ad meduUam, are the upper extremities of the restiform bodies. The middle peduncles, or crura ad pontem, much the largest, are the lateral extremities of the transverse fibres of the pons Yarolii. They connect together the two halves of the cerebellum inferiorly. All these peduncles consist of white fibres only ; and they pass into the interior of the cerebellum at its fore part. The cerebellum is covered with grey cortical substance, rather darker than that of the cerebrum. Its greatest diameter is transverse, and extends to about three and a half or four inches : its width from before backwards is about two or two and a half inches ; and its greatest depth is about two inches, but it is much thinner round its outer border. It consists of two lateral hemispheres joined together by a median portion calted the vermiform process, which in the human subject is distinguishable only as a small though well-marked part below, named the inferior vermiform process, and a mere elevation above, called the superior vermiform process. In birds, and in animals lower in the scale, this middle part of the cerebellum