710 THE EYE. The lachrymal sac, the upper dilated portion of the passage, is situated at the side of the nose, near the inner canthus of the eye, and lies embedded in a deep groove in the ungual and upper maxillary bones. It is of an oval form ; the upper end closed and rounded, and the lower end gradually narrowing somewhat into the nasal duct. On the outer side, and a little in front, it receives the lachrymal canals ; and here it is covered by the tendo palpebrarum, and by some of the inner fibres of the orbicular muscle of the lids ; while on its inner or posterior surface the tensor tarsi muscle is placed. The sac is composed of fibrous and elastic tissues, adhering closely to the bones above mentioned, and strengthened by fibrous processes sent from the tendo palpebrarum, which crosses a little above its middle. The inner sur- face is lined by a reddish mucous membrane, which is continuous through the canaliculi with the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the mucous membrane of the nose. The nasal duct (ductus ad nasum), about six or seven lines in length, grooving the upper maxillary bone, descends to the fore part of the lower meatus of the nose, the osseous canal being completed by the ungual and lower turbinated bones. A tube of fibrous membrane, continuous with the lachrymal sac, adheres to the parietes of this canal, and is lined by mucous membrane, which, at the opening into the nose, is often arranged in the form of an imperfect valve. The nasal duct is rather narrower in the middle than at either end ; its direction is not quite vertical, but inclined slightly outwards and backwards. The mucous membrane in the canaliculi possesses a laminar epithelium, but in the nasal sac and duct a ciliated epithelium as in the nose. Various valves have been described in connection with the lachrymal sac and canals. One, the valve of Hasner, is formed by the mucous membrane of the nose overhanging the inferior orifice of the nasal duct, and has had imputed to it the function of pre- venting entrance of foreign matters in violent expiratory movements; but the disposition of the mucous membrane at this orifice appears to be subject to some variation. Another fold, the valve of Huschke, placed at the deep orifice of the canali- culi, is supposed by some to prevent tlie return of the tears from the sac into those tubes, but by others, it is declared to be inconstant, and insufficient, even when found, to close the orifice. A third fold, the valve of Foltz, is described as forming a projection inwards on one side of the vertical part of each canaliculus, near the punctum lachrymale, and as being suflicient to close the tube when it is flattened by the pressure of the fibres of the orbicularis and tensor tarsi muscles as in winking. The experiments of Foltz on rabbits go to prove that the punctum lachrymale having been turned backwards towards the eye in winkiag, and the canaliculus being compressed by the muscles, as soon as the pressure is removed the canaliculus resumes its open form, and so sucks in tears which by the next compression in winking are forced onwards into the lachrymal sac; and also, that when the muscles are paralysed, the canaliculi cease to carry away the tears. See review of Foltzs paper in Dublin Quarterly Journal, Feby. 1863; also, Hyrtl, Topogr. Anatomic. THE GLOBE OF THE EYE. The globe or ball of the eye is a composite structure of an irregularly spheroidal form, placed in the fore part of the orbital cavity, and receiving the thick stem of the optic nerve behind. The recti and obliqui muscles closely surround the greater part of the eyeball, and are capable of changing its position within certain limits : the lids, with the plica semilunaris and caruncle, are in contact with its covering of conjunctiva in front ; and behind it is supported by a quantity of loose fat and connective tissue.