COLUMN'S OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 515 The anterior pijramids are two bundles of white substance, placed one on either side of the anterior fissure, and marked off from the olivary body externally by a slight depression. They become broader and more pro- minent as they ascend towards the pons Varolii. At their upper end they are constricted, and thus enter the substance of the pons, through which their fibres may be traced into the peduncles of the brain. Fig. 349.—View op the Anterior Surface Fig. 3i9. OP THE Pons Varolii and Medulla Oblongata. a, a, anterior pyramids ; h, their decussation ; c, c, olivary bodies ; d, d, restiform bodies ; e, arciform fibres; /, fibres described by Solly as passing from the anterior column of the cord to the cerebellum; g, anterior column of the spinal cord ; h, lateral column ; p, pons Varolii; i, its upper fibres ; 5, 5, roots of the fifth pair of nerves. In the lower part, a portion of each pyramid, arranged in several bundles, which interlace with the corresponding bundles of the other pyramid, passes downwards across the fissure to the oppo- site side. This decussation of the pyra- mids is not complete, but affects much the greater part of the innermost fibres. When traced from below, it is found that the whole or a great part of the decussating fibres come forward from the deep portion of the lateral columns of the cord, and advance to the surface between the diverging anterior columns, which are thus thrown aside. (Rosenthal, " Beitrag zur Encephalotomie," 1815.) The outer smaller portion of each pyramid does not decussate ; it consists of fibres, derived from the anterior column of the cord : these ascend, and are joined by the decussating portion from the opposite side. Together they form a prismatic bundle or column of white fibres, which extends deeply into the substance of the medulla, and is triangular in a cross section. The anterior pyramids contain no grey matter. The olivary bodies are two prominent oval masses placed to the outer side of the pyramids, and sunk to a considerable depth in the substance of the medulla oblongata, appearing on its surface like two smooth oval eminences. They do not reach the pons Varolii above, being separated from it by a deep depression ; nor do they extend so far in a downward direction as the pyramids, being considerably shorter than those bodies. The olivary bodies consist externally of white substance, of which the fibres chiefly run longitudinally ; and internally of a grey nucleus, named corpus dentatum or ciliare, or olivary nucleus. The olivary nucleus appears, on making a section, whether horizontal or vertical, through the middle, to present the form of a zig-zag line of a light yellowish colour, circumscribing a whitish substance within, and interrupted towards the centre of the medulla. Tt is arranged in the form of a capsule, which is open at its upper and inner part and has its sides corrugated or