930 THE KIDI^EYS. foveola found near the summit of the prrpilla, l)ut most commonly the surface pitted over with about a score of raiuute depressions of this sort. On tracing these minute openings into the substance of the pyramids, they are discovered to be the mouths of small tubes or ducts, called the nrini- ferous tubes (tubuli uriniferi), which thus open iipou the surface of the several papillae into the interior of the calyces. As these tubuli pass up into the pyramidal substance, they bifurcate again and again at very acute angles, their successive branches running close to- gether in straight and slightly diverging lines, and continuing thus to divide and subdivide until they reach the sides and bases of the pyramids, from whence they pass, greatly augmented in number, into the cortical sub- stance, where they enter the pyramids of Ferrein. These straight tubules continued up from the orifices in the papillae are sometimes called ducts of Bellini : they are largest near their orifices, at a short distance from which, within the papillae, their diameter varies, according to Buschke, from ^,th. to rj-^th of an inch. Farther on in the pyramid they become smaller, measuring about —th. of an inch in diameter, and then do not diminish as they continue to bifurcate, but remain nearly of the same uniform average diameter. The convoluted tubes, tubuli contorti, which form the greater part of the cortical substance, and, together with vessels and connecting stroma, the whole of its outermost portion, vary considerably in diameter, but they maintain commonly the same average width as the straight tubes, namely ^th of an inch. The epithelium in the convoluted tubules may be termed cubical ; it does not present any marked contrasts in thickness, but in some of the smaller tubules it is clear, while in the majority it is turbid, and with its cells ill-defined. Besides these tubes, long well known to anatomists, attention has more recently been called by Henle to the presence in the Malpighian pyramids of a number of tubes, which may be roughly estimated as having only a third or a fourth of the diameter of the others, and which, after descending between the larger tubes a variable distance towards the papillae, then turn abruptly and reascend. The tubes in question have been designated looped tubes of Henle. According to this author, the small differ from the large tubes not only in size but in the greater thickness of their walls. By the action of dilute hydrochloric acid the epithelium of the large tubes is destroyed and that of the looped tubes brought into view. The epithelium of the looped tubes, Henle also states, is clear and squamous towards the papillae, but towards the bases of the pyramids it becomes turbid, like that of the convoluted tubules. Chrzonszczewsky, while he bath figures and describes looped uriniferous tubes, considers that the merit of having discovered them rests with Ferrein, and that those described by Henle as having squamous epithelium are really bloodvessels. Although, however, it is admitted that loops are formed by bloodvessels very similar to the looped tubes of Henle, it must be regarded as certain that loops of the uriniferous tubules are much more numerous than Chrzonszczewsky is willing to admit, and for a knowledge of them as constant and regularly disposed elements of the renal struc- ture science is indebted to Henle. Imbedded among the convoluted tubules are the Malpighian corpuscles, the structure and connections of which must be taken into consideration, before the disputed course of the uriniferous tubes can be discussed. The Malpighian corpuscles are small bodies of a rounded or slightly ob- long shape, which have an average diameter of -fi^th of an inch, but