744 THE EAE. calibre of tlie passage is smallest about tlie middle. Tlie outer opening is largest from above do'vniwards, but the tympanic end of the tube is slightly widest in the transverse direction. At the rimer extremity the tube is terminated by the membrana tympani, ^vhich is placed obliquely, ■with the inferior margin inclined towards the mesial plane, and thus the floor of the meatus is longer than its roof. The meatus is composed of a tube partly cartilaginous and partly osseous, and is lined by a prolongation of the skin of the pinna. The cai-tilaginous part of the meatus forms somewhat less than half the length of the passage. It is formed by the deep part of the cartilage of the pinna, which has been already described. The osseous poHion of the meatus is a little longer and rather narrower than the cartilaginous part. At its inner end it presents a narrow groove, which extends round the sides and floor of the meatus, but is deficient above ; into this the margin of the membrana tympani is inserted. The sl-:iii of the meatus is continuous with that covering the pinna, but is very thin, and becomes gradually thinner towards the bottom of the pas- sage. In the osseous part of the canal it adheres very closely to the periosteum ; and at the bottom of the tube this lining is stretched over the smface of the membrana tympani, forming the outer layer of that struc- ture. After maceration in water, or when decomposition is advanced, the epidermic lining of the passage may be separated and drawn otit entire, and then it appears as a small tube closed at one end somewhat like the finger of a glove. Towards the outer part the skin possesses fine haire and seba- ceous glands ; and in the thick subdermic tissue over the cartilage are many smaU oval glands of a brownish-yellow colour, agreeing in form and struc- ture with the sweat glands. The cerumen or ear-wax is secreted by these glands, glandidcp ceruminosa, and their numerous openings may be seen to perforate the skin of the meatus. These accessory parts are absent over the bony part of the tube. Vessels and nerve-s.—The external auditory meatus is supplied with arteries from the posterior auricular, internal maxillars' and temporal arteries; and with nerves chiefly from the temporo-am-icular branch of the fifth nerve. State ill the imanf.—The auditors- passage is in a very rudimentary state in the infant, for the osseous part begins to grow out of the tympanic bone only at the period of birth (p. 6Sj, and thus the internal and middle parts of the ear are brought much closer to the surface than in the adult. THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPAXU:M. The t}mipanum or drum, the middle chamber of the ear, is a narrow irregular cavity in the substance of the temporal bone, placed between the inner end of the external auditory canal and the labpdnth. It receives the atmospheric air from the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and con- tains a chain of small bones, by means of wliich the vibrations commimicated from without to the membrana tympani are in part conveyed across the cavity to the sentient part of the internal ear, and by which also pressure is maintained on the contents of the internal ear, varying in amount accord- ing to the tension of the membrana tympani. The tympanum contains likewise minute muscles and ligaments, which belong to the bones referred to, as well as some nerves which end within this cavity, or pass through it to other parts. The cavity of the tympanum may be considered as presenting for con-