907 ARYTENOID CARTILAGES. descends with a deep concavity in front below the thyroid cartilage ; while the inferior border is horizontal, and connected by membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The posterior elevated part of the upper border is slightly notched in the middle line ; and on the sides of this notch are two convex oval articular facets, directed upwards and outwards, with which the arytenoid cartilages are articulated. The external surface of the cartilage is convex and smooth in front and at the sides, where it affords attachment to the crico-thyroid muscles, and behind these to the inferior constrictor muscle on each side : posteriorly it presents in the middle line a slight ver- tical ridge, to which some of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus are attached. On each side of this ridge is a broad depression occupied by the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, and externally and anteriorly to that a small rounded and slightly raised surface for articulation on either side with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The internal surface is in contact throughout with the mucous membrane of the larynx. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage is circular, but higher up it is somewhat compressed laterally, so that the passage through it is elliptical. The arytenoid cartilages are two in number, and are of a symmetrical form. They may be compared to three-sided pyramids recurved at the summit, resting by their bases on the posterior and highest part of the cricoid cartilage, and approaching near to one another. Each measures from five to six lines in heighb, about three lines in width, and, in the middle of its inner surface, more than a line from before backwards. Of the three faces, the posterior is broad, triangular, and excavated from above downwards, lodging part of the arytenoid muscle. The anterior Fig. 635.—Outline showing the Fig. 635. Position and Form op the Ary- tenoid Cartilages from behind. \ h, hyoid bone ; t, the superior, and t', the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage; c, i)laced on the median ridge of the back of the cricoid carti- lage ; a, placed between the two ary- tenoid cartilages, to which the letter points by two dotted lines ; the carti- lages of Santorini or cornicula are shown above the upper angles ; tr, the trachea. surface, convex in its general outline, and somewhat rough, gives attachment to the thyro- arytenoid muscle, and, by a small tubercle, to the corresponding superior or false vocal cord. The internal surface, which is the narrowest of the three, and slightly convex, is nearly parallel with that of the opposite cartilage, being covered by the laryngeal mucous membrane. The anterior and posterior borders, which limit the internal face, ascend nearly in the same vertical plane, whilst the external border, which separates the anterior from the posterior surface, is directed obliquely upwards and inwards.