Fig. 581.—Diagrammatic View in Perspective 834 THE STOMACH. OF A Portion op the Coats of the Stomach Fig. 581. anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach, where they spread out from one another, and most of them gradually disappear ; some, however, reach as far as the pylorus. A similar set of fibres, noticed by Henle, and more fully described by Pettigrew, proceed from the right side of the cardia and spread over the front and back of the groat cul-de-sac : these are in part continuous with the circular layer. The oblique fibres ar^ best seen from the inside of the stomach, after removing the mucous membrane. In this, as in the circular layer of fibres, Pettigrew believes the figure of 8 arrange- ment to prevail. (From unpublished Notes of Pesearches on the Muscular Fibres of the Stomach, by James Pettigrew, M.D.) AND Duodenum, including the Pylorus. | g, the alveolar surface of the stomachal mu- cous membrane ; g', section of the mucous mem- brane with the pyloric gastric glands ; the villous surface of the mucous membrane of the duodenum ; i, section of the same with the in- testinal glands or crypts of Lieberkiihn ; pp, the ridge of the pyloric valve, with a section of its component parts ; mi, deep or circular layer of muscular fibres : these are seen in the section to form a part of the pyloric valve ; me, external or longitudinal layer of muscular fibres ; ^, the serous covering. The areolar or submucous coat of the stomach is a distinct layer placed between the muscular and mucous coats, and connected with both : it consists essentially of a dense filamentous areolar tissue, in which occasional fat-cells may be found ; and it is the seat of division and passage of the larger branches of the blood-vessels. The internal or mucous coat is a smooth, soft, rather thick and pulpy membrane, which has generally a somewhat pink hue owing to the blood in its capillary vessels, but which, after it has been well vv^ashed, is of a greyish white or pale straw colour. In some cases, however, it presents this pale aspect without any previous washing. In infancy the vascular redness is more marked, the surface having then a rosy hue, but it becomes paler in childhood, and in aged persons is often of an ash-grey colour. During digestion its vessels become congested, and when examined in that condition it is always of a much brighter pink than at other times. After death a few hours often suffice to change its colour to a dirty brown tint, mottled and streaked in some cases with dull red lines, corresponding with the course of the veins. This alteration is owing to the exudation of the colouring matter of the blood, and is especially met with in old subjects, in whom the mucous membrane is always thin. In acute inflammation, or after the introduction of irritating sub- stances or of strong acrid poisons, it becomes of a bright red, either all over or in spots, patches or streaks of variable sizes. Corrosive poisons, the gastric juice, and sometimes regurgitating bile, may stain it variously, black, brown, yellow, or green ; and the effect of chronic inflammation is to leave the membrane of a slate-grey colour. Independently of all these modifying circumstances connected with the stomach itself, as was pointed out by Yelloly and others, the colour of the gastric mucous surface is liable to be influenced by causes of a more general nature. Thus, it has been found that in cases of obstructed venous circulation, as when death occurs from hanging or from drowning, and also in certain diseases of the heart, the internal surface of the stomach is reddened to a greater or less extent; but the amount of vascularity may vary from circumstances which are not well understood, and may be found greatly increased in cases in which none of those now named exist. Trans, of Med. Chir. Soc„ vol. iv. p. 371.