THE LARYNX. 914 its laryngeal side and upper end is a thin layer of muscular fibres (com- pressor sacculi laryngis, arytseno-epiglottideus inferior, Hilton) connected above with those found in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The upper fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscles pass over the outer side of the pouch, a few being attached to its lower part. The laryngeal pouch is supplied abundantly with nerves, derived from the superior laryngeal. Muscles of the Larynx. Besides certain extrinsic muscles already described—viz., the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, together with the muscles of the supra-hyoid region, and the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx, all of which act more or less upon the entire larynx, there are certain intrinsic muscles which move the different cartilages upon one another_, and modify the size of the apertures and the state of tension of the soft parts of the larynx. These intrinsic muscles are the crico-thyroid, the posterior and lateral crico-arytenoid^ the thyro-arijtenoidj the arytenoid, and the aryteno-epiglottidean, together with certain other slender muscular fasciculi. All these muscles, except the arytenoid, which crosses the middle line, are in pairs. The crico-thyroid muscle is a short thick triangular muscle, seen on the front of the larynx, situated on the fore part and &ide of the cricoid cartilage. It arises by a broad origin from the cricoid cartilage, reaching from the Fig. 639.—Lateral View of the Cartilages OP the Larynx with the Crico-Thyroid Muscle (after Willis). 8, thyroid cartilage ; 9, cricoid ; 10, crico- thyroid muscle ; 11, crico-thyroid ligament or membrane; 12, upper rings of the trachea. median liue backwards upon the lateral surface, and its fibres, passing obliquely iipwards and outwards and diverging slightly, are inserted into the lower bor- der of the thyroid cartilage, and into the anterior border of its inferior comu. The lower portion of the muscle, the fibres of which are nearly horizontal, and are inserted into the inferior cornu, is usually distinct from the rest. Some of the superficial fibres are almost always continuous with the inferior con- strictor of the pharynx. The inner borders of the muscles of the two sides are separated in the middle line by a triangular interval, broader above than below, and occupied by the crico-thyroid membrane. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, situated behind the larynx, beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx, arises from the broad depression on the corres^ponding half of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage. From this broad origin its fibres converge upwards and outwards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, behind the attachment of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle. The upper fibres are short