783 FORM OF PERMANENT TEETH. MOLARS. one tubercle distinctly marked, i. e., the external, and in that case approaches in figure to a canine tooth. The molar teeth, true or large molars, or multicuspid teeth, are twelve in number, and are arranged behind the bicuspid teeth, three on each side, above and below. They are distinguished by the large size of the crown, and by the great width of its grinding surface. The first molar is the largest, and the third is the smallest, in each range, so as to pro- duce a gradation of size in these teeth. The last molar in each range, owing to its late appearance through the gums, is called the ivisdom- tooth, dens sapientise. The crowns of the molar teeth are low and cuboid in their general form. Their outer and inner surfaces are convex, but the crowns are rather flattened before and behind. The grinding surface is nearly square in the lower teeth, and rhomboidal in the upper, the corners being rounded off: it is not smooth, but is provided with four or five trihedral tubercles or cusps (whence the name of multicuspidati), sepa- rated from each other by a crucial depression. The upper molars have four cusps situated at the angles of the masticating surface : of these the internal and anterior cusp is the largest, and is frequently connected with the posterior external cusp by a low oblique ridge. In the upper wisdom- teeth, the two internal tubercles are usually blended together. The crowns of the lower molars, which are larger than those of the upper, have five cusps, the additional one being placed between the two posterior cusps, and rather to the outer side : this is especially evident in the lower wisdom- teeth, in which the crown is smaller and rounder than in the others. The fa7igs of all the molar teeth are multiple. In the two anterior molars of the upper jaw, they are three in number, viz. two placed externally, which are short, divergent, and turned towards the antrum of the superior max- illa ; and a third or internal fang, which is larger and longer, and is directed towards the palate, the posterior border of which extends as far back as that of the posterior external fang. This third fang is often slightly grooved, especially when the two ioternal cusps are very distinct, and sometimes it is divided into two smaller fangs. The two anterior molars of the lower jaw have each two fangs, one anterior, the other posterior, which are broad, compressed, and grooved on the faces that are turned towards each other, as if each consisted of two fangs fused together : they have an inclination or curve backwards in the jaw, and are slightly divergent, or sometimes parallel, or even nearly in contact with each other : more rarely one or both of them is divided into two smaller fangs. In the wisdom-teeth of both jaws the fangs are often collected into a single irregular conical mass, which is either directed backwards in the substance of the jaw, or curved irregu- larly : this composite fang sometimes shows traces of subdivision, and there are occasionally two fangs in the lower tooth and three in the upper. The bicuspid and the molar teeth, from the breadth and uneven form of their crowns, are fitted for bruising, crushing, and grinding the food in mastication. The range of teeth in each jaw forms a nearly uniform curve, which is not broken by any intervals, as is the case in the dental apparatus of many animals, even in the Quadrumana. The upper dental arch is rather wider than the lower one, so that the teeth of the upper jaw slightly overhang those of the lower. This is owing principally to the fact that the lower teeth are placed either vertically, as in front, or are inclined somewhat inwards, as is seen behind and at the sides, while the corresponding teeth of the upper jaw have an inclination forwards in front, and outwards