THE CRANIAL NERVES. 606 muscle, and is directed nearly horizontally outwards through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw to the posterior border of the masseteric muscle, which it enters on the deep surface. It gives a filament or two to the articulation of the jaw, and occasionally furnishes a branch to the tem- poral muscle. The buccal branch pierces the substance of the external pterygoid muscle, and courses downwards and forwards to the face, in close contact with the deep surface of the temporal muscle at its insertion. It furnishes a branch to the external pterygoid muscle as it pierces it, and on emerging gives two or three ascending branches to the temporal muscle. It divides into two principal branches, an iipper and a lower, which communicate with the facial nerve in a plexus round the facial vein, and are distributed to the integument, the buccinator muscle, and the mucous membrane. The external pterygoid branch is most frequently derived from the buccal nerve. It is sometimes a separate offset from the smaller portion of the lower maxillary nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle is closely connected at its origin with the otic ganglion, and enters the inner or deep surface of the muscle. AUEICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE. The auriculo-temporal nerve takes its origin close to the foramen ovale. It often commences by two roots, between which may be placed the middle meningeal artery. It is directed at first backwards, beneath the external pterygoid muscle, to the inner side of the articulation of the jaw ; then changing its course, it turns upwards between the ear and the joint, covered by the parotid gland ; and emerging from this place, it finally divides into two temporal branches which ascend towards the top of the head. (a) Communicating branches.—There are commonly two branches, which pass forward round the external carotid artery, and join the facial nerve. Filaments to the otic ganglion arise near the beginning of the nerve. (b) Parotid branches are given from the nerve while it is covered by the gland. (c) Auricular branches.—These are two in number. The lower of the two, arising behind the articulation of the jaw, distributes branches to the ear below the external meatus; and sends other filaments round the internal maxillary artery to join the sympathetic nerve: the upper branch, leaving the nerve in front of the ear, is dis- tributed in the integument covering the tragus and the pinna above the external auditory meatus. Both are confined to the outer surface of the ear. (d) Branches to the meatus auditorium.—These, two in number, spring from the point of connection of the facial and auriculo-temporal nerves, and enter the interior of the auditory meatus between the osseous and cartilaginous parts. One of them sends a branch to the membrana tympani. (e) Articular branch.—The nerve to the temporo-maxillary articulation comes from one of the preceding branches, or directly from the auriculo-temporal nerve. (/) Temporal branches.—One of these, the smaller and posterior of the two, distributes filaments to the anterior muscle of the auricle, the upper part of the pinna and the integument above it. The anterior temporal branch extends with the superficial temporal artery to the top of the head, and ends in the integument. It is often united with the temporal branch of the upper maxillary nerve. Meckel mentions a communication between this branch and the occipital nerve. GUSTATORY NERVE. The gustatory nerve, or lingual branch of the fifth, descends under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, lying to the inner side and in