TEMPORO-FACIAL DIVISION OF THE FACIAL. 613 frontalis muscle ; it lies close to the bone, and, besides supplying the muscle, gives upwards filaments to the integument. DIGASTRIC AND STYLO-HYOID BRANCHES. The digastric branch arises in common with that for the stylo-hyoid muscle, and is divided into numerous filaments, which enter the digastric muscle : one of these sometimes perforates the digastric, and joins the glosso- pharyngeal nerve near the base of the skull. The stylo-hyoid branch, long and slender, is directed inwards from the digastric branch to the muscle from which it is named. This nerve is connected with the plexus of the sympathetic on the external carotid artery. TEMPORO-FACIAL DIVISION. The temporo-facial, the larger of the two primary divisions into which the main trunk of the facial nerve separates, is directed forwards through the parotid gland. Its ramifications and connections with other nerves form a network over the side of the face, extending as high as the temple and as low as the mouth. Its branches are arranged in temporal, malar, and infraorbital sets. (a) The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma to the side of the head. Some end in the anterior muscle of the auricle and the integument of the temple, and communicate with the temporal branch of the upper maxillary nerve near the ear, as well as with (according to Meckel) the auriculo-temporal branch of the lower maxil- lary nerve. Other branches enter the occipito-frontalis, the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the corrugator supercilii muscles, and join olFsets from the supraorbital branch of the ophthalmic nerve. (6) The malar branches cross the malar bone to reach the outer side of the orbit, and supply the orbicular muscle. Some filaments are distributed to both the upper and lower eyelids: those in the upper eyelid join filaments from the lachrymal and supraorbital nerves ; and those in the lower lid are connected with filaments from the upper maxillary nerve. Filaments from this part of the facial nerve communicate with the malar branch of the upper maxillary nerve. (c) The infraorbital branches, of larger size than the other branches, are almost horizontal in direction, and are distributed between the orbit and mouth. They sup- ply the buccinator and orbicularis oris muscles, the elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth, and likewise the integument. N^uraerous communications take place with the fifth nerve. Beneath the elevator of the upper lip these nerves are united in a plexus with the braaches of the upper maxillary nerve; on the side of the nose they communicate with the nasal, and at the inner angle of the orbit with the infratrochlear nerve. The lower branches of this set are connected with those of the cervico-facial division. Near its commencement the temporo-facial division of the facial is connected with the auriculo-temporal nerve of the fifth, by one or two branches of considerable size which turn round the external carotid artery; and it gives some filaments to the tragus of the outer ear. CERVICO-FACIAL DIVISION. This division of the facial nerve is directed obliquely through the parotid gland towards the angle of the lower jaw, and gives branches to the face, below those of the preceding division, and to the upper part of the neck. The branches are named buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. In the gland, this division of the facial nerve is joined by filaments of the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus, and olfsets from it penetrate the sub- stance of the gland.