MmUTE STRUCTURE OF CEREBELLUM.-THE CEREBRUM. 529 they form a thin light-coloured lamina, intermediate between two darker strata of grey matter which contain the nerve-cells; one of these grey strata being the deepest and next the white matter of the cerebellum, while the other, which is the darker coloured of the two, is in contact with the pia mater. 4. Fibres. Tubular nerve- fibres pass from the white into the grey matter, and extend through it nearly as far as the surface. The mode of their termination, which is difficult to trace, has been investigated by various anatomists. According to "Valentin, they form loops and return upon their course, but this statement has not been confirmed by other observers. Gerlach has recently described a very remarkable arrangement of the fibres of the cerebellum. According to him, these fibres, on approaching the grey matter, split up into extremely fine divisions, which form a network, while the granules, which he considers as small cells with ramifying processes, are placed at the angles of the meshes, and branching processes of the large nerve cells also terminate in the network. According to KoUiker, networks of tubular fibres exist within the grey matter and communicate with the nerve-cells, while the granules belong to the reticulum of connective tissue. Luys, like Gerlach, describes lateral processes as being given off by the nerve-fibres to connect them with the granules, at the same time that they terminate likewise directly, although much attenuated, in the large nerve-cells. (Gerlach, " Microscopische Studien," pi. I., fig. 3; copied in Yirchow's " Cellular Pathology," by Chance, p. 269.) THE CEREBRUM. The cerehrum, or brain proper, constitutes the highest and much the largest portion of the encephalon. It consists of the following parts, viz., the peduncular masses of the crura cerebri and processus a cerebello ad cerebrum ; the series of eminences or cerebral centres or ganglia concealed from view, named corpora quadrigemina, optic thalami and corpora striata; the cerebral hemispheres, which are by far the most bulky part of the cere- brum and of the whole encephalon, and form nearly the whole superficial part ; various commissural structures including the corpus callosum and fornix ; and lastly some smaller structures, viz., the pineal and the pituitary bodies, and the olfactory bulbs. EXTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM, The cerebral hemispheres together form an ovoid mass, flattened on its under side, and placed in the cranium with its smaller end forwards, its greatest width being opposite to the parietal eminences. They are separated in the greater part of their extent by the great longitudinal fissure. Each cerebral hemisphere has an outer or convex surface, which is in contact with the vault of the cranium ; an inner or flat surface, of a crescent shape, which forms one side of the longitudinal fissure ; and an irregular under surface, which rests on the base of the skull, and on the tentorium cerebelli. Three lohes, or large divisions, projecting in three difi'erent directions, have usually been distinguished in each hemisphere, imder the names of anterior, middle, and posterior lobes. The division between the anterior and middle lobes is very clearly defined below and on the sides by a deep cleft, named the Sylvian fissure. There is no similar demarcation between the middle and posterior lobes ; but anatomists have generally considered as the pos- terior lobe that part of the hemisphere which lies over the cerebellum. The under surface of the anterior lobe is triangular and excavated to adapt it to the roof of the orbit on which it rests. The middle lobe is rounded