531 FOEM AND DIVISIONS OF THE CEREBRUM. divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. It lodges the trunk and primary divisions of the middle cerebral artery, and at its commencement presents a spot pierced by numerous small arterial branches, and thence named the locus perforatus anticus. The surface of the hemispheres is composed of grey matter, and is moulded into numerous smooth and tortuous eminences, named convolutions^ or gyri^ which are marked off from each other by deep furrows, called sulci^ or anfractuosities. Fig. 363. Fig. 363.—Lateral View of the Right Cerebral Hemisphere (from Sappey after Foville). 4 1, fissure of Rolando ; 2, anterior ascending parietal convolution ; 3, frontal convolu- tions connected posteriorly with the anterior ascending parietal; 4, union of two frontal convolutions ; 5, posterior ascending parietal convolution ; 6, another parietal convolution similarly connected with those on the inner surface ; 7, 7, anterior part of the convolu- tion of the fissure of Sylvius ; 8, 8, horizontal part of the same convolution ; 9, 9, posterior part; 10, 11, 12, anterior, middle, and posterior principal convolutions of the island of Reil or central lobe : 13, supraorbital convolution; 14, part of the temporal lobe ; 15, occipital lobe. Cerebral Convolutions.—The convolutions are covered closely through- out by the vascular investing membrane, the pia mater, which sends pro- cesses down to the bottom of the sulci between them, while the serous covering, the arachnoid membrane, passes from one convolution to another, over their summits and without dipping between them. The sulci are generally from half an inch to an inch in depth ; but in this respect there is much variety in different brains, and in different parts of the same brain ; those upon the outer convex surface of the hemisphere being the deepest. In general, the depth of a convolution exceeds its thickness ; and its thick- ness, near the summit, is somewhat greater than through its base. Since the external grey or cortical substance is continuous over the whole surface of the cerebral hemispheres, being found alike within the sulci and upon the gyri, a far greater extent of grey matter is thus exposed to the vascular surface of the pia mater with a given size of the brain than could have been the case had the hemispheres been plain and destitute of convolutions. The general arrangement of the convolutions has been made the subject