968 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. testicle, and is principally composed of the convolutions of a long tortuous canal or efferent duct, to be presently described. Its upper extremity, which is enlarged and obtuse, projecting forwards on the upper end of the testis, is named the head of the epididymis, or globus major; the lower, which is more pointed, is termed the tul, or globus minor; whilst the inter- vening and narrower portion is named the body. The outer convex surface of the epididymis and the thin anterior border are free, and covered by the tunica vaginalis. The inner surface, except at the upper and lower ends, is also free, and invested by the same tunic, which here forms the digital pouch between the epididymis and the outer face of the testicle, and nearly surrounds the epididymis, except along its posterior border, which is held to the gland by a duplicature of the serous membrane, containing numerous blood-vessels. At its upper and lower extremity, the inner surface of the epididymis is attached to the testicle,—the lower end, or globus minor, by fibrous tissue and a reflection of the tunica vaginalis, the globus major also by the efferent ducts of the testicle. At the back of the testis and epididymis, beneath the fascia propria, there is found opposite the lower two-thirds of the testis, a considerable amount of unstriped muscular tissue, the inner muscular tunic of Kolliker. Situated on the front of the globus major, somewhat to the outer side, there are found in the majority of cases one or more short processes of the tunica vaginalis, containing fine blood-vessels. They are called corpora Morgagni, or hydatids of Morgagni ; that anatomist having been the first to describe them. One of these, more dilated than the rest, and pyriform in shape, lies closely between the head of the epididymis and the testicle, and appears to be the remains of the foetal structure, termed Miiller's duct : they are without any known physiological importance. The testis proper, exclusive of the epididymis, is enclosed in a strong capsule, the tunica albuginea. This is a dense unyielding fibrous membrane, of a white colour, and about half a liue thick, which immediately invests the soft substance of the testicle, and preserves the form of the gland. It is composed of bundles of fibrous tissue, which interlace in every direc- Fig. 676.—Transverse Section through the Right Testicle and the Tunica Vaginalis (from Kol- liker). a, connective tissue enveloping the parietal layer of tine tunica vaginalis ; b, this layer itself; c, cavity of the tunica vaginalis; d, reflected or visceral layer adhering to e, the tunica albuginea ; /, covering of epididymis (g) on the right or outer side ; A, medias- tinum testis ; i, branches of the spermatic artery ; h, spermatic vein ; I, vas deferens ; m, small artery of the vas deferens ; lobules of the testis ; o, septa or from the mediastinum to the surface. tion. The surface is for the most part covered by the tunica vaginalis, except along the pos- terior border of the testicle, where the sper- matic vessels pass through, and except also at the parts to which the two extremities of the epididymis are attached. Viewed from the interior, the fibrous tissue of the tunica albuginea is seen to be prolonged forwards, at the posterior and upper border of the testis, for a few lines into the substance of the gland, so as to form within it an incomplete vertical septum, known as the corpus Highmorianum, and named