THE CRANIAL NERVES. Fig. 407. 602 the ganglion of Bochdaleh, from which branches are described as descending to the alveolar process and gums of the incisor and canine teeth. (See Hyrtl's Lehrbuch, p. 804.) (6) The outer branch gives filaments to the bicuspid teeth, and is connected with the posterior dental nerve. The infraorbital branches, large and numerous, spring from the end of the superior maxillary nerve beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip, and are divisible into palpebral, nasal, and labial sets. Fig. 407.—Deep View of the Spheno-Palatine Ganglion, and its Connections with OTHER Nerves, &c. (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveill^), | 1, superior maxillary nerve ; 2, posterior superior dental; 3, second posterior dental branch ; 4, anterior dental; 5, union of these nerves ; 6, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve ; 8, its great superficial petrosal branch ; 9, its camtid branch ; 10, a part of the sixth nerve, receiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical sympathetic ganglion ; 12, its carotid branch ; 13, trunlc of the facial nerve near the knee or bend at the hiatus Fallopii ; 14, glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 15, anastomosing branch of Jacobson ; 16, twig uniting it to the synapathetic; 17, filament to the fenestra rotunda; 18, filament to the Eustachian tube ; 19, filament to the fenestra ovalis ; 20, external deep petrosal nerve uniting with the lesser superficial petrosal; 21, internal deep petrosal twig uniting with the great superficial petrosal. a. The palpebral branch (there are sometimes two branches) turns upwards to the lower eyelid in a groove or canal of the bone, and supplies the orbicular muscle; it ends in filaments which are distributed to the eyelid in its entire breadth. At the outer angle of the eyelids this nerve is connected with the facial nerve. b. The nasal branches, directed inwards to the muscles and integument of the side of the nose, communicate with the cutaneous branch of the nasal nerve. c. The labial, the largest of the terminal branches of the upper maxillary nerve, and three or four in number, are continued downwards beneath the proper elevator of the upper lip. Ramifying as they descend, these nerves are distributed to the integument, the mucous membrane of the mouth, the labial glands, and the muscles of the upper lip. Near the orbit the infraorbital branches of the superior maxillary nerve are joined by considerable branches of the facial nerve, the union between the two being named infraorbital plexus. INFRAOEBITAL BRANCHES.