1040 SURGICAL AXATOMY OF THE PEPJX.EUM. The muscles brought into view by the removal of the superficial fascia are, on each side, the accelerator urinse, erector penis, and transversus perinaei. Between these muscles is a depression, in which access may be gained to the membranous part of the urethra, without wounding the erectile tissues of the penis,—viz., the corpus spongiosum urethrae with its bulbous enlarge- ment on the one hand, and the crus of the corpus cavernosum on the other, covered respectively by the accelerator urinjie and the erector penis. Along this depression is placed the superficial artery of the perinaeum, with the accompanying nerve, and the transverse artery crosses behind it ; at the bottom of the depression, after the muscular structure has been turned aside, the deep perineal fascia is met with. The last-named membrane, deep perineal or subpubic fascia (p. 260), fills the upper part of the subpubic arch, and is therefore necessarily triangular in shape. It consists of two laminte of fibrous membrane, the anterior being much the more fibrous of the two. The layers are separated by an interval, in which the constrictor muscle of the urethra (p. 265) is lodged, together with Cowper's glands and the arteries of the bulb, as well as the pudic arteries and nerves for a short space. Where it is perforated by the membranous portion of the urethra, the fore part of the deep perineal fascia is continuous with the fibrous cover of the bulb and corpus spongiosum urethrae, so that the fascia does not present a defined edge to the tube which passes through it. The posterior layer is connected with the capsule of the prostate gland. The anterior of the two layers constituting the deep perineal fascia, is the struc- ture recognised by most anatomical writers as foraiing the trianf/idar ligament of the urethra. (See especially Camper, Demonstrationes Anatomico-PathologicEe.) It is pierced by the urethra, and it alone interferes with the passage of instruments along the canal. The structure next met with in examining the perinaeum is the levator ani (its fore part), and immediately under that muscle is the prostate. Of this gland it is here necessary only to state, as material to the present ob- ject, that placed before the neck of the bladder (when the perinaeum is in the position required for the performance of lithotomy), around the urethra, behind and below the arch of the pubes, and above the rectum, the prostate is supported by the levator ani and the pelvic fascia,—the latter descending from the pubes on its upper surface. It is invested with a fibrous covering, and on this account the outer surface does not readily yield to a cutting instrument, while the proper substance of the gland may be incised with comparative facility. From the increase of its breadth towards the lower surface, it follows that the greatest extent of incision from the urethra, without wholly dividing the gland, would be made in a direction outwards and backwards. The examination of the prostate by the surgeon is made through the rectum. It is only through the gut that it can be felt. V/hen the gland is enlarged, as it commonly is in aged persons, the urethra is raised above its natural level aud elongated. But the augmentation of size may be partial, aflfecting one lateral lobe (a rare occurrence), and then the urethra is inclined to one side ; or the middle and posterior part or middle lobe may be projected upwards at the orifice of the urethra, so as even to ob- struct the escape of urine from the bladder. In this last case the point of the instrument passed along the urethra, must be inclined upwards more than is required in the healthy condition of the parts, in order that it may