808 THE TONGUE. When examined microscopically in sections, all the kinds of papillae noAV described are observed to be bearers of closely-set secondary papillse. The secondary papillfe are the structures which correspond with the papillae of the general integument, and are occupied each by a long loop of capillary bloodvessel. Simple papillae of the same description are likewise inter- spersed between the three large kinds, and are found on the back part of Fig. 566. Fig. 566.—Two Filiform Papillje, ONE WITH Epithelium, the other WITHOUT (from Kolliker, after Todd and Bowman). ^ p, the substance of the papillse di- viding at their upper extremities into secondary papillae ; a, artery, and v, vein, dividing into capillary loops ; e, epithelial covering, laminated be- tween the papillae, but extended into hair-like processes /, from the ex- tremities of the secondary papillae. the tongue, behind the circum- vallate range, as well as covering the under surface of the tongue and the rest of the mucous mem- brane of the mouth. The epi- thelium covering the tongue, like that of the mouth generally, is of the squamous kind. It is of considerable thickness, and the simple papillae, together with the secondary papillae surmount- ing those of the circumvallate and fungiform kinds, are con- cealed beneath it, or nearly so. But the secondary papillae, borne by those of the filiform kind, are peculiar both in contain- ing a number of elastic fibres, which give them greater firmness, and in the character of their epithelial covering, which is dense and imbricated, and which forms a separate process over each, greater in length than the papilla which it covers. Over some of the filiform papillae these processes form a pencil of fine fibres; and on others they approach closely in character and structure to hairs. The papillae are undoubtedly the parts chiefly concerned in the special sense of taste; but they also possess, in a very acute degree, common tactile sensibility; and the filiform papillae, armed with their denser epithelial covering, serve a mechanical use, in the action of the tongue upon the food, as is well illustrated by the more developed form which these papillae attain in many carnivorous animals. The papillary surface of the tongue is supplied abun- dantly with nerves. It is difficult to trace the nerve fibres in the papillae filiformes, owing to the presence of elastic filaments. In the papillae fungi- formes the nerves are larger and more numerous, and form a plexus with brush-like branches: but they are still more abundant, and of greater size in the papillae circumvallatae. Little that is satisfactory is known of the mode of termination of the