MUCOUS COAT OF THE STOMACH. 835 The gastric mucous membrane is tliickest iu the pyloric portion of the stomach, and thinnest in the great cul-de-sac. It always becomes thinner in old age. The outer or adherent surface of the mucous membrane is connected Avith the muscular coat by means of the intervening submucous layer so loosely as to allow of considerable movement or displacement. In consequence of this, and of the great extent and want of elasticity of the mucous membrane as compared with the other coats, the internal surface of the stomach, when that organ is in a contracted state, is thrown into nximerous convoluted ridges, riigce, which are produced by the wrinkliug of the mucous, together with the areolar coat, and are entirely obliterated by distension of the stomach. These folds of the mucous coat are most evident along the great curvature, and have a general longitudinal direction. On examining the gastric mucous membrane closely with the aid of a simple lens, it is seen to be marked throughout, but more plainly towards the pyloric extremity, with small depressions or cells named alveoli, which have a polygonal figure, and vary from about goth to -j-^Qth. of an inch across, being larger and more oblong near the pylorus. Fig. 5S2.—Enlarged View of a small part op the Sur- Fig. 682. PACE OP THE Mucous MeMBRANE OP THE StOMACH (froill Ecker). ^ This specimen shows the shallow alveoli, in each of which the smaller dark spots indicate th.e orifices of a variable num- ber of the gastric glands. Towards the pyloric region of the stomach, where the mucous membrane is thicker than elsewhere, the margins of these alveoli are elevated into pointed processes or fringes, which may be compared to rudimentary villi, the Fig. 583.—Vertical Transverse Section op the Coats op a Pig's Stomach (from Koiliker). - a, gastric glands ; h, muscular layer of the mucous membrane ; c, submucous or areolar coat ; d, circular muscular layer; e, longitudinal mus- cular layer ; /, serous coat. perfect forms of those appendages existing only in the small intestine, and making their appearance in the duodenum, imme- diately beyond the pylorus. At the bottom of the alveoli, and also in the intervals between them, are seen small round apertures, which are the mouths of minute tubes, placed perpendicularly to the surface, closed at their attached or deep extremity, which rests on the submucous areolar tissue, and opening at the other on the inner surface of the stomach. On mak- ing a vertical section of the membrane, and submitting it to microscopic examination, it is seen to consist almost entirely of these small tuhuli, arranged close to and parallel with each other. Their diameter varies from ^-^ Tyth to ^-g^gth of 3 I 2"" Fig. 583.