THE URINARY BLADDER. 950 Fig. 667. Fig. 667.—View of the Muscdlau The third stratum of fibres, still more deeply situated, and which might bo termed internal longitudinal, was first described by Ellis, who distinguished it as submucous." It is very delicate, and its fibres, directed longitu- dinally, are scattered in a regular manner round the cavity of the bladder. The researches of Pettigrew (including an elaborate series of dissections preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England) have led him to the conclusion that, with few exceptions, the muscular fibres of all the strata are arranged in figure-8 loops. These loops are directed towards the apex and base, and he regards them as disposed in four sets ; a>i anterior and a posterior set largely developed, and a right and a left lateral set accessory and less fully developed ; and they are so arranged that at any one spot on the bladder there are to be found decussating groups of fibres, which may be distinguished as longitudinal, horizontal or transverse, and oblique. The extremities of each figure-8 are placed on one aspect of the bladder, and the point of decussation on the opposite aspect ; the arrangement being thus similar to that of a string wound in figure-8 loops round a cylinder. In each set the most superficial loops are com- pressed laterally and elongated from above downwards, but the succeeding loops as they become more deeply placed are more and more drawn out trans- versely until those which are nearly circular are reached ; and on passing more deeply than these, the loops become again gradually more and more elongated until those which have been alluded to as internal longitudinal are arrived at. The figure-8 arrangement, stated by Pettigrew to exist in all the groups, is most distinctly seen in the anterior set, which may here be more particularly alluded to. The most superficial fibres of this set form a narrow band some of which are prolonged on the urachus, while others pass round close behind its insertion ; their decussation takes place about midway between the summit of the bladder and the urethra ; and inferiorly they pass forwards to be inserted into the capsule of the prostate, the posterior surface of the pubes, the inner border of the levator aui, and the fascia covering the constrictor urethrjs muscle. The points of decussation of the deeper fibres Fibres of the Bladder from the LEFT Side (after Pettigrew and from Nature). ^ The anterior and posterior super- ficial fibres are seen in profile running from below upwards, crossing each other by their divergence on the sides of the bladder, and are indicated by the same letters as in the previous figures ; at c, a portion of the anterior longitudinal fibres has been removed so as to expose the deeper circular fibres. as they become more horizontal, are placed lower and lower down. The fibres which cross obliquely are most expanded, and embrace the larger parts of the bladder, taking part, on the posterior wall, in the formation of the so- called circular layer, while the fibres which at their decussation are more nearly horizontal are confined to the regions of the base and neck. The