THE SPINAL COED. 508 greater part of tlie grey matter, which resembles that most generally preva- lent, was named by Rolando the substantia spongiosa. The grey cornua vary in form in diflferent parts of the cord : thus they are long and slender in the cervical portion, still more slender in the dor- sal, and shorter and wider in the lumbar region. The grey matter appears in a series of sections to be, relatively to the white, more abundant in the lumbar region of the cord, less so in the cervical region, and least so in the dorsal. The actual amount, however, of white matter is greatest in the neck. Towards the lower end of the cord, the double crescentic form gradually disappears, and the grey matter is collected into a central mass, which is indented at the sides. At its extreme point, according to Remak and Valentin, the cord consists of grey matter only. Fig. 344. Fig. 344.—Sections op the Spinal CoKD IN Different Parts. These views are taken partly from Stilling's plates and partly from nature. A, is a section through the middle of the cervical enlargement, at the root of the sixth cervical nerve ; B, through the mid- dle of the dorsal cylindrical portion ; C, through the middle of the lumbar enlarge- ment ; D, in the conical diminishing part of the cord ; E, farther down at the origin of the fifth sacral nerve ; F, at that of the coccygeal nerve ; Gr, is a sec- tion of the part where the conus medul- laris begins to pass into the filum termi- nale ; and H, at the lower part of this or in the commencement of the filum terminale. A, B, and C, are fully twice the natural size ; D, E, and F, about three times ; and Gr and H, about six times. In A, and C, a, marks the anterior root-fibres of the nerves ; and p, the posterior root- fibres as they enter the spinal cord. In D, E, and F, the great diminution of the white substance in proportion to the grey is seen; in Gr, the peculiar form of the central canal and medullary substance covering it; and in H, the open con- dition of the central canal posteriorly. In all the figures the position is the same, viz., the anterior part placed down- wards. Central canal—Extending through the whole length of the spinal cord, in the substance of the grey commissure, there is a minute central canal which in prepared transverse sections of the cord is barely visible, as a speck, with the naked eye. Superiorly, it is continued into and opens out at the calamus scriptorius of the fourth ventricle ; and inferiorly, it is prolonged into the filum terminale. It is lined with a layer of cylindrical ciliated cells or epithelium. This canal, though minute, is an object of considerable interest as a typical part of the structure of the cord, it being the permanent remains of the cavity of the cylinder formed by the spinal cord at the earliest period of its development. It is more distinctly seen