COVERINGS OF THE CORD AND TESTIS. 965 mechanical stimuli, but, apparently, not by electricity. By its action the testes are drawn up or sustained, and at the same time the skin of the scrotum is more or less corrugated. 3. The intercolumnar or spermatic fascia, a very thin and transparent but relatively firm layer, derived from the tendon of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, is attached above to the margins of the external ring, and is prolonged downwards upon the cord and testicle. It lies at first beneath the superficial fascia, but lower down beneath the dartos, and it is inti- mately connected with the layer next in order. 4. The cremasteric layer is composed of scattered bundles of muscular tissue, connected together into a continuous covering by intermediate areolar membrane. The red muscular portion, which is continuous with the lower border of the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen, constitutes the cremaster muscle (p. 251), or tunica erythroides, and the entire covering is named the cremasteric fascia. 5. The infundibuliform fascia, continuous above with the fascia transver- salis and the subperitoneal areolar membrane, and situated immediately beneath the cremasteric fascia, invests the cord completely, and is connected below with the posterior part of the testicle and the outer surface of its serous tunic. On forcing air beneath the infundibuliform fascia, a quantity of loose and delicate areolar tissue is seen to connect its internal or deep surface with the vas deferens and spermatic blood-vessels, and to form lamellae between them. This areolar tissue is continuous above with the subserous areolar tissue found beneath the peritoneum on the anterior wall of the abdomen ; below, it is lost upon the back of the testicle. Together with the infundibuliform fascia just described, it forms the fascia propria of A. Cooper. Lying amongst this loose areolar tissue, in front of the upper end of the cord, there is often seen a fibro-areolar band, w^hich is connected above with the pouch of peritoneum found opposite the upper end of the inguinal canal, and which reaches downwards for a longer or shorter distance along the spermatic cord. Occasionally it may be followed as a fine cord, as far as the upper end of the tunica vaginalis ; sometimes no trace of it whatever can be detected. It is the vestige of a tubular process of the peritoneum, which in the foetus connects the tunica vaginalis with the general peritoneal membrane. The testicle is placed in the abdomen during the greater part of foetal life ; but at a period considerably prior to its escape from the abdominal cavity, a pouch of peritoneum already extends down into the scrotum. Into this pouch or i^rocessus vaginalis peritonoei the testicle projects from behind, supported by a duplicature of the serous membrane, named the mesorchium. Sooner or later after the gland has reached the scrotum, the upper part or neck of this pouch becomes contracted and finally obliterated, from the internal abdominal ring down nearly to the testicle, leaving no trace but the indistinct fibrous cord already described, whilst the lower part remains as a closed serous sac, into which the testicle depends, and which is thenceforth named the tunica vaginalis. In the female an analogous pouch of peritoneum descends in the foetus, for a short distance along the round ligament of the uterus, and has received the appellation of the canal of Nuck. Traces of it may almost always be seen in the adult. The neck of the processus vaginalis sometimes becomes closed at intervals only, leaving a series of sacculi along the front of the cord; or a long pouch may continue open at the upper end, leading from the abdominal cavity into the inguinal canal.