537 PARTS m THE INTERPEDUNCULAE SPACE. situated between the peduncles, tlie bottom of which is composed of greyish matter, connecting the diverging crura together, and named pons Tarini. It is perforated by numerous small openings for the passage of blood-vessels; and some horizontal white striae usually pass out of the grey matter and turn round the peduncles immediately above the pons. Fig. 367. Fig, 367.—Base of the Brain ^vith the Origins of the Cerebral Nerves. 4 This figure is taken from an adult male brain which had been hardened in alcohol. 1, superior longitudinal fissure ; 2, fissure of the olfactory tract and lower part of the superior convolution ; 2', orbital convolutions ; 2", external or inferior frontal convolu- tion ; 3, inner part of the fissui-e of Sylvius, near the anterior perforated spot ; 3, 3, outer part; 4, inner convolution of the temporal lobe ; 4', middle convolution ; 4", outer con- volution ; 5, 5', occipital lobe ; 6, on the right pyramidal body of the medulla oblongata above the decussation ; 7, amygdaloid lobe of the cerebellum ; 8, biventral lobe ; 9, lobulus gracilis; 10, posterior inferior lobe; +, the inferior vermifoi-m process; I, olfactory bulb ; T, the tract divided on the left side, showing the three white strise by which it is connected with the brain ; II, in the anterior perforated spot, marks the right optic nerve ; the left has been cut short ; III, on the right crus cerebri, denotes the third pair ; IV, on the inner convolution of the middle lobe, the fourth pair ; V, the trige- minus ; VI, on the pons Varolii, the sixth ; VII, also on the pons Varolii, the seventh ; VIII, on the left lobe of the cerebellum below the horizontal fissure and the flocculus, denotes the eighth pair; IX, on the upper part of the right amygdaloid lobe, d£notes the ninth pair ; X, on the same, the suboccipital nerve. The corpora alhicantia or mammillaria are two round white eminences in front of this fossa, each about the size of a small pea, surrounded by grey matter, and connected together across the middle line. The corpora alhicantia are formed, as will hereafter be explained, by the anterior extremities of the fornix; hence they have also been named bulbs of the fornix. In N N