987 CHAXGES OF THE UTERUS IN GESTATION, &c. substance of the mous Veneris. Besides areolar tissue and vessels, the round ligaments contain plain muscular fibres, like those of the uterus, from which, indeed, they are prolonged. Each ligament also receives a covering from the peritoneum, which, in the young subject, is prolonged under the form of a tubular process for some distance along the inguinal canal : this, which resembles the processus vaginalis originally existing in the same situation in the male, is named the canal of Nuck : it is generally obliterated afterwards, but is sometimes found even in advanced life. Blood-vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the uterus are four in number, viz., the right and leffc ovarian (which correspond to the spermatic of the male) and the two uterine. Their origin, as well as the mode in which they reach the uterus and ovaries, has been already described (pp. 414, 422). They are remarkable for their frequent anastomoses, and also for their singularly tortuous course; within the substance of the uterus they seem to be placed in little channels or canals. The veins correspond with the arteries ; they are very large, and form the uterine plexuses, and their thin walls are in immediate contact with the uterine tissue. The course of the lymphatics is described at p. 495- they are very large and abundant in the gravid uterus. The nerves have been fully described at p. 704. They are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexuses, the spermatic plexuses, and the third and fourth sacral nerves. The changes which take place in the uterus from age, menstruation, and gestation, and the characters presented by this organ after it has once performed the latter func- tion, can only be very generally indicated here. For some time after menstruation first commences, the uterus becomes rounder and slightly enlarged at each period, its os externum becomes more rounded, and its lips swollen ; subsequently these periodical alterations are not so marked. The organ itself, however, always becomes more turgid with blood, and the mucous mem- brane appears darker, softened, and thickened. In gestation more extensive alterations ensue, which necessarily affect the size, shape, and position of the organ, the thickness and amount of substance in its walls, the dimen- sions and form of its cavity, and the character of its cervix and of its os externum and os internum. Its weight increases from about one ounce to one pound and a half or even three pounds. Its colour becomes darker, its tissue less dense, its muscular bundles more evident, and the fibres more developed. The principal increase is in the muscular tissue, and this increase takes place not only by the enlargement of already existing elements, the fibre cells becoming enlarged from seven to eleven times in length, and from two to five times in breadth (Kolliker), but also by new formation. The former process is general; the latter occurs mainly in the innermost layers, and continues until the sixth month of pregnancy, when new formation ceases. The round liga- ments become enlarged, and their muscular structure more marked; the broad liga- ments are encroached upon by the intrusion of the growing uterus between their layers. The mucous membrane and the glands of the body of the uterus become the seat of peculiar changes, which lead to the formation of the decidual membrane ; whilst the membrane of the cervix loses its columns and rugae. The blood-vessels and lymphatics are greatly enlarged, and it is observed that the arteries become exceedingly tortuous as they ramify upon the organ. The condition of the nerves in the gravid uterus has been previously fully referred to (p. 704), After parturition, the uterus again diminishes, its enlarged muscular fibres under- going oleaginous degeneration and becoming subsequently absorbed, while a new set of minute fibre cells are developed. The organ, however, never regains its original virgin character. Its weight usually remains from two to three ounces in those who have had children ; its cavity is larger; the os externum is wider and more rounded, and its margins often puckered or fissured; the arteries continue much more tortuous than they are in the virgin, and its muscular fibres and layers remain more defined. Age.—In the infant the neck of the uterus is larger than the body; and the fundus is not distinguished either by breadth or convexity of outline. These parts afterwards enlarge gradually, until, at puberty, the pyriform figure of the womb is fully established. The arbor vitas is very distinct, and indeed at first reaches up- Avards to the highest part of the cavity.