EXTRACTION OF THE BRAIK 1049 At tlie back of the neck the posterior and upper parts of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles will be laid bare (pp. 200 and 193) ; and, be- tween these, a part of the spleuius muscle, and, when the trapezius is not stroDgly developed, a small angle of the complexus muscle will be brought into view. These muscles are to be left undivided at present. On the posterior part of the cranium the structures to be examined are the occipital artery and vein, and the great occipital nerve, which pierces the complexus and trapezius muscles (pp. 351 and 634) ; the small occipital nerve, which passes upwards along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle (p. 638) ; and, beneath these, the occipital part of the occipito-frontalis muscle (p. 169), which passes upwards from the superior curved line of the occipital bono. Behind the ear are the retrahens auriculam muscle and the posterior auricular artery and nerve (pp. 353 and 612) ; above the ear is the attollens auriculam muscle ; and in front of the ear the attrahens auriculam muscle connected with the attoleus, the temporal artery and vein, the small temporal branch of the third division of the fifth nerve, and the superior branches of the facial nerve (pp. 170, 353, 612, and 606). Passing upwards on the forehead, are the frontal part of the occipito-frontalis muscle, the frontal vein, the supraorbital and frontal arteries, and the supraorbital and supratrochlear nerves (pp. 360 and 597). 2. Interior of the Cranium and Brain.—During the third and fourth days the brain and its membranes are to be removed and studied, and the interior of the base of the skull dissected to show the sinuses, blood-vessels, and nerves ; and, if there is time (as may be the case, should the head have been previously opened), the orbit may be examined from above. To remove the calvarium, the temporal aponeurosis and upper part of the temporal muscle having been dissected, let the scalpel be carried round the cranium from a point a little above the occipital protuberance, so as to pass across the forehead at about an inch above the orbits ; and having cleared a small portion of the bone on the circle so made, let the external table of the skull be sawn through, leaving the inner table undivided. Let the inner table be cracked completely round by a few smart strokes of the chisel and mallet, and the calvarium may then be pulled away from the dura mater which lines it. The superficial aspect of the dura mater having been ob- served, and the superior longitudinal sinus laid open and inspected (p. 462), the dura mater is to be divided on a level with the sawn edge of the skull, excepting where it touches the middle line ; this will permit the arachnoid membrane and pia mater to be examined, as well as the cerebral veins entering the superior longitudinal sinus ; and when these veins are divided the falx cerebri will be seen dipping down between the cerebral hemispheres. The falx cerebri is then to be separated from its attachment to the crista galli and thrown backwards (p. 562). It will now be in the dissector's option to remove the brain at once from the body, or to examine it in situ as far as the ventricles. If the latter plan, which is generally to be preferred, be adopted, the dissectors ought first to examine the convolutions of the upper aspect of the brain, noticing the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries arching respectively backwards and forwards ; they will then slice away the hemispheres to the level of the corpus callosum, and observe the extent of that structure, its transverse markings, the raphe and the longitudinal lines (p. 540). They will proceed by incisions at the sides of the corpus callosum, to open the lateral ventricles separately, so as to expose their cavities with the anterior and posterior cornua and the parts lying on their floor ; they must afterwards cut across