5U THE CEEEBRUM. Fig. 372.—A Deep View of Fig. 372. thalamus, which appears in its cavity and. forms its anterior boundary, while its remaining boundaries are formed by the hemisphere. At its com- mencement it is directed backwards and outwards, then passing downwards with a sweep, it curves forwards, and at its extremity has a marked inclina- tion inwards. The principal object seen upon the floor of this cornu is the hippocampus major (pes hippocampi, or cornu ammonis), a large white eminence extending the whole length of the cornu. The hippocampus major becomes enlarged towards its anterior and lower extremity, and is indented or notched on its edge, so as to present some resemblance to the paw of an animal, whence, no doubt, its name of pes hippocampi. The white fibres of its surface are directed obliquely backwards and outwards across it : they form only a thin smooth layer, and beneath them is cineritious matter continuous with that of the surface of the hemisphere. Along the iimer edge of this eminence is seen a narrow white band, named corpus Jimhriatum or taenia hippocampi, which is prolonged from the fornix ; to the inner side of the tsenia is a part of the choroid plexus, and next to that the back of the optic thalamus. This cornu differs from the others in respect that it is not a mere cul-de-sac, but, by the mere separation of the mem- branes, can be made to communicate in its whole length with the surface of the brain by the fissure through which the choroid plexus enters. THE Lateral Ventricles AND their CoRNUA WITH THE Velum Interpositum. \ The fornix has been divided near its anterior pillars and turned back, c, the anterior part of the corpus callosum divided; e, the lyra on the lower surface of the corpus callosnm and fornix ; /, ante- rior pillars of the fornix divided (these are represented of too large a size) ; anterior, and h, posterior cornu ^ the lateral ventricle ; Tc, k, corpora striata ; pes hippocampi in the lower part of the middle cornu ; r, r, thalami optici; s, s, tsenia se- micircularis; t, t, choroid plexus ; V, velum interpositum ; X, X, posterior pillars of the fornix; eminentia collate- ralis. The posterior cornu pro- jects backwards into the substance of the posterior lobe. At its extremity it is pointed, and directed inwards. On the inner side of its floor is a curved and pointed longitudinal eminence, named hippocampus miuor, ergot, or calcar avis ; and at the junction of the posterior with the descending cornu, between the hippocampus major and minor, is a smooth eminence, named eminentia collateralis, or pes accessorius. The hippocampus minor is only the convex side of the fold which forms the calcarine sulcus, and part of the sulcus of the hippoca mpi ; and in like