THE ENCEPHALON. 513 to be accounted for by the curving of the nerve roots, both toward and away from the brain. By similar experiments, it is made probable that motor impressions likewise travel chiefly in the grey matter of the cord. Section of one lateral half of the cord is followed by loss of sensation in the opposite hind limb, and of motion in the limb of the side operated on: and a prolonged mesial incision produces loss of sensation in both hind limbs, without paralysis of motion. But in the medulla oblongata, before the decussation of the anterior pyramids, section of one side produces loss of both sensation and motion on the opposite side. From these circumstances it appears probable that the sensory fibres, viz., those of the posterior roots, decussate in the commissure of the spinal cord, while the motor fibres, those derived from the anterior roots, cross chiefly at the decussation of the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata. (For further details, see Brown-Sequard, " Central Nervous System," 1860 ; also, for a succinct account of the subject and for bibliography, J. Beclard, " Physiologic Humaine," 4th ed., 1862 ; "Carpenter's Human Physiology, 6th edit., 1865). The encephalon admits of being conveniently divided into the medulla oblongata, the cerebellum with the pons Varolii^ and the cerebrum. Fig. 348.—Plan in outlike op the Encephalon, as seen from the eight side. | The parts are represented as separated from one another somewhat more than natural so as to show their connections. A, cerebrum ; /, g, A, its anterior middle and posterior lobes ; e, fissure of Sylvias ; B, cerebellum ; C, pons Varolii ; D, medulla oblongata; a, peduncles of the cerebrum ; h, c, d, superior, middle, and inferior peduncles of the cerebellum ; the parts marked a, b, c, G, form the isthmus encephali. The medulla oblongata is the part continuous with the spinal cord : it rests on the basilar process of the occipital bone, and on its superior or dorsal surface presents a groove continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord. The cerebellum occupies the posterior fossa of the cranium. By the mesial part of its anterior and inferior surface, it forms the roof of a space, B.—THE EN^CEPHALON. Fig. 348. t