1081 ANTERIOR FEMORAL KEGIOK may examine the three compartments into which this sheath is divided, and which contain respectively the artery, the vein, and a lymphatic gland ; the latter blocking up the. crural aperture betwean the femoral vein and Gimbernat's ligament, through which femoral hernia descends. All the relations of these parts are to be carefully studied with special reference to the operations for strangulated femoral hernia (p. 1036). The incision on the inner side of the thigh is now to be prolonged down- wards towards the middle line beyond the knee, and the dissection of the front of the thigh continued. The two middle and the two internal cutaneous branches of the anterior crural nerve, together with the branch from the internal saphenous nerve to the integument of the knee, and the internal saphenous vein, will be dissected out, and the fascia lata in front of the thigh made clean (p. 664). The fascia is then to be removed, and the communications of the internal cutaneous, internal saphenous, anl obturator nerves sought in the lower part of the inner aspect of the thigh (p. 666). Scarpa's triangle is now to be cleaned, and the dissection of the femoral vessels both in that space and in the after part of their course is to be studied (p. 434). Towards its termination below the middle of the thigh, the femoral artery will be observed to be covered by a tendinous expansion, which conceals it for a part of its course before it pierces the tendon of the adductor magnus muscle : in the passage so formed, known as Hunter's canal, the femoral artery, which is accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve, will be seen to give off the anastomotic branch (p. 293). The deep femoral artery should be dissected as far as the upper border of the adductor longus muscle ; and the origins of its first branches are to be brought into view, viz. : the internal circumflex artery, dividing into ascending, transverse, and descending branches. One or both of the circum- flex arteries often arise from the femoral artery immediately above the origin of the deep femoral (p. 438). The sartorius muscle is to be cleaned, and likewise the gracilis muscle, and the surface of the other adductors ; the relations of the inferior tendons of the sartorius, gracilis^ and semitendinous muscles may also be exposed (pp. 273 and 276). The student will then direct his attention to the outer part of the thigh near the hip. He will there dissect the fascia lata from the remaining part of the gluteus medius muscle, and from the tensor vaginae femoris muscle, leaving at first a strip of the fascia extending down to the knee on the outside of the leg, and he will afterwards expose the deeper band of the fascia which passes inwards to the hip-joint from within the upper part of the muscle (pp. 273 and 292). He will also find the branch of the gluteal nerve to the tensor vaginae femoris by dissecting between it and the gluteus medius muscle (p. 667). Let him divide successively the tensor vaginae femoris and the remains of the gluteus medius and minimus, and dissect the two last muscles down to their inferior attachments, so as to exhibit the bursas between them and the trochanter major, and the connection of the gluteus minimus with the cap- sule of the hip-joint (p. 268). While engaged with this proceeding he will be enabled to dissect more particularly the ascending and transverse branches of the external circumflex artery, and to examine their anastomoses with the gluteal artery (p. 438). Let him then clean the rectus muscle, trace its anterior and posterior heads close to their origins, and observe the positions of the limb in which they are respectively tightened (p. 274). The trunk of the anterior crural nerve is now to be cleaned, its branches to the extensor^nuscles are to be dissected, the internal saphenous nerve laid bare as far as the knee, and the slender twigs to the pectineus muscle seen