THE EAR. 742 gether from the lobule, which contains only fat and tough connective tissue. Behind the antitragus is a deep notch, separating it from the cartilage of the helix, which here forms a tail-like process descending towards the lobule. At the fore part of the pinna, opposite the first bend of the helix, is a small conical projection of the cartilage, called the process of the helix, to which the anterior ligament is attached. Behind tliis process is a short vertical slit in the helix ; and on the surface of the tragus is a similar but somewhat longer fissure. A deep fissure passes back between the com- mencement of the helix and the tube of the ear, and another passing outwards and backwards from the deep end of the longitudinal cleft separates the part forming the tragus from the rest of the tube, so that the tube is continuous with the pinna only by means of a narrow isthmus. One or two other irregular gaps or fissures partially divide the cartilaginous tube transversely, and the whole of these deficiencies are termed fissures of Santorini. The substance of the cartilage is very pliable, and is covered by a firm fibrous perichondrium. Of the ligaments of the pinna, the most important are two, which ass^ist in attaching it to the side of the head. The anterior ligament, broad and strong, extends from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament fixes the back of the auricle (opposite the concha) to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, A few fibres attach the tragus also to the root of the zygoma. Ligamentous fibres are likewise placed across the fissures and intervals left in the cartilage. Of the muscles of the pinna, those which are attached by one end to the side of the head, and move the pinna as a whole, have been already described (p. 170) : there remain to be examined several smaller muscles, composed of thin layers of pale fibres, which extend from one part of the pinna to another, and may be named the special muscles of the organ. Six small muscles are distinguished ; four being placed on the outer and two on the inner or deep surface of the pinna. The smaller muscle of the helix (m. minor helicis) is a small bundle of oblique fibres, lying over, and firmly attached to that portion of the helix which springs from the bottom of the concha. Fig. 497.—Cartilage op the Pinna exposed, with the Muscles on its Outer Sur- face. 1, musculus heh'cis minor ; 2, m, helicis major; 3, tra- gicus ; 4, antitragicus. Fig. 498.—Inner Surface of the Cartilage op the Pinna with the Small Muscles attached. 5, transversus auriculae muscle ; 6, obliquus auriculge muscle. The greater muscle of the helix (m. major helicis) lies vertically along the anterior margin of the pinna. By its lower end it is attached to the process of the helix ; and above, its fibres terminate opposite the point at which the ridge of the helix turns backwards.