ERECTILE TISSUES OF THE VULVA. 979 open on the inner aspect of the nymphse, outside the hymen or carunculte myrtiformes. Erectile tissue—All the parts of the vulva are supplied abundantly with blood-vessels, and in certain situations there are masses composed of venous plexuses, or erectile tissue, corresponding to those found in the male. Besides the corpora cavernosa and glans clitoridis, already referred to, there Fig. 682. Fig. 682.—Front View op the Erectile Structures of the External Organs in THE Female (from Kobelt). -| a, bulbus vestibuli ; 6, sphincter vagina muscle ; e, e, venous plexus or pars inter- media ; /, glans clitoridis; g, connecting veins ; /i, dorsal vein of the clitoris ; k, veins passing beneath the pubes ; the obturator vein. are two large leech-shaped masses, the hulhi vestiMili, about an inch long, consisting of a network of veins, enclosed in a fibrous membrane, and lying one on each side of the vestibule, a little behind the nymphse. They are rather pointed at their upper extremities, and rounded below: they are sus- pended, as it were, to the crura of the clitoris and the rami of the pubes, covered internally by the mucous membrane, and embraced on the outer side by the fibres of the constrictor vaginse muscle. They are together equi- valent to the bulb of the urethra in the male, which it will be remembered presents traces of a median division. In front of the bipartite bulb of the vestibule is a smaller plexus on each side, the vessels of which are directly continuous with those of the bulbus vestibuli behind, and of the glans clitoridis before. This is the pars intermedia of Kobelt, and is regarded by him as corresponding with the part of the male corpus spongiosum iirethrse which is in front of the bulb : it receives large veins coming direct from the nymphre. Vessels.— The outermost parts of the vulva are supplied by the superficial pudendal arteries; the deeper parts and all the erectile tissues receive branches from the internal pudic arteries, as in the male. The veins also in a great measure correspond ; there is a vena dorsalis clitoridis, receiving branches from the glans and other parts as in the male; the veins of the bulbus vestibuli pass backwards into the vaginal plexuses, and are connected also with the obturator veins; above they communicate Avith the 3 s 2