DEEP DISSECTION" OF THE FACE. 1057 of the orbit tlie insertions of these muscles may be more fully displayed. The contents of the orbit may be afterwards divided behind and turned forward, to admit of the tensor tarsi muscle and the lachrymal sac being dissected. Finally, if the subject be favourable, the nasal nerve may be traced through the ethmoid bone to its distribution in the interior of the nares, and its external twig to the tip of the nose examined. 8- Deep viev) of the Fifth Nerve. Spheno-palatine and Otic Ganglia. Internal Ear.—After the dissection of the orbit has been completed, the foramen rotunduin and infraorbital canal are to be laid open, and the supe- rior maxillary nerve and its orbital and dental branches dissected (p. 600). Remove with the saw a further portion of the skull towards the meatus externus, reaching as far as the foramen spinosum, and with the chisel or nippers cut down close to the foramen ovale ; remove also a portion of the bone above the pterygoid processes so as to open up the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the spheno-palatine ganglion will be brought into view. The con- nection of the ganglion with the superior maxillary nerve may then be made out. Trace the nasal and naso-palatine branches of the ganglion through the spheno-palatiue foramen, and the palatine branches passing downwards. Lay open the Vidian canal and dissect the Vidian nerve back to the great superficial petrosal nerve (p. 603). At the same time the infraorbital, spheno-palatine, descending palatine and Vidian branches of the internal maxillary artery will be noted (p. 356). The otic ganglion may also be in part seen by breaking open the foramen ovale, following upwards the nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle, and slightly everting the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve (p. 608). The twigs from this ganglion to the tensor palati and tensor tympani muscles may be found. The otic ganglion, however, can only be seen to advantage in dissections made from the inner side of the internal pterygoid muscle and inferior maxillary nerve. The Eustachian tube may be laid bare in the posterior part of its course, and may be opened, and the attachment of the tensor tympani above it shown (p. 747). By now sawing the wall of the skull down to the margin of the external auditory meatus, and removing with the bone-nippers, cautiously, the ante- rior wall of the meatus externus, the membraua tympani may be exposed ; and by unroofing the tympanic cavity in continuation of the Eustachian tube backwards, the malleus, incus and stapes, as well as the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle will be brought into view (p. 748), The mode of action of the latter on the membrana tympani may be studied ; also the chorda tympani nerve will be seen traversing the cavity. The malleus and incus are to be carefully removed ; then, placing one point of the bone- nippers in the internal auditory meatus, lay open with the other the vesti- bule and cochlea, and let the relation of the portio mollis and portio dura nerves to these cavities be observed (pp. 610 and 615). The manner in which the stapes fits into the fenestra ovalis may now be seen to ad- vantage, the tendon of the stapedius muscle requiring, however, to be cut across before that ossicle can be removed. With the aid of the bone-nippers, the fleshy part of the stapedius may ba laid bare, descending in the mastoid part of the temporal bone, close to the facial nerve ; and, in favourable circumstances, the corda tympani may be traced back to the facial nerve. 9. Submaxillary and Sublingual Regions.—Let the lower jaw be divided in front of the masseter muscle, and let the gustatory and mylo-hyoid nerves be followed from the pterygoid into the submaxillary region. The 3 z