THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 637 and deep ; the superficial consisting of those which ramify over the cervical fascia, supplying the integument and some also the platysma ; the deep comprising branches which are distributed for the most part to the muscles. The superficial nerves may be subdivided into ascending and descending ; the deep nerves into an internal and external series. Fig. 423. Fig. 423. — Diagrammatic Outline op the first PARTS OP THE CeRVICAL AND Upper Dorsal Nerves, showing the Cervical and Brachial Plexuses, J The nerves are separated from the spinal cord at their origin and are sup- posed to be viewed from before. CI, is placed op- posite the roots of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve, and the roman num- bers in succession from II, to VIII, opposite the roots of the corresponding cer- vical nerves ; D1, is placed opposite to the roots of the first dorsal nerve, and II, and III, opposite the second and third nerves; the origin of the posterior primary- branch is shown in all the nerves ; of these p 2, indi- cates the great occipital from the second, and p3, the smallest occipital nerve from the third. In con- nection with the cervical plexus the following indica- tions are given ; 1, anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve and loop of union with the second nerve; 2, lesser occipital nerve proceeding in this case from the second cervi- cal nerve, more frequently from the second and third ; 3, great auricular nerve from the second and third ; 3', superficial cervical nerve from the third ; 3%, communicating branches to the descen- dens noni from the secoud and third ; 3 s, communicating to the spinal-accessory from the second, third, and fourth; 4, supraclavicular and supraacromial descending nerves : the loops or arches of communication between the four upper cervical nerves, and between the fourth and fifth are shown ; 4', the phrenic nerve springing from the fourth and fifth nerves. In connection with the nerves of the brachial plexus and the remaining nerves the following indications are given—V, to VIII', and D', the five roots of the brachial plexus; 5, the rhomboid nerve ; 5', suprascapular ; b", posterior thoracic ; 6, nerve to the subclavins muscle ; 7, 7, inner and outer anterior thoracic nerves ; 8, 8', 8", upper and lower subscapular nerves. In the larger nerves proceeding to the shoulder and arm from the plexus, those of the anterior division are represented of a lighter shade, those belonging to the posterior division darker; ec, external cutaneous or musculo-cutaneous; m, median ; u, ulnar, ic, internal cutaneous ; w, nerve of Wrisberg ; r, musculo-spiral; c, circum- flex; i, intercostal nerves; i', lateral branch of the same; ih, intercosto-humeral nerves.