683 SYNOPSIS OF CUTANEOUS NERVES. and on the buttock the distribution of the lumbar nerves extends to the trochanters. The area supplied by the cervical plexus, besides extending upwards, as already mentioned, on the lateral part of the skull, stretches over the front and sides of the neck, and the upper part of the shoulder and breast. The area of the anterior divisions of the dorsal and first lumbar nerves meets superiorly with that of the cervical plexus, and posteriorly with that of the posterior divisions of dorsal and lumbar nerves. It passes down over the haunch and along by the outer part of Poupart's ligament, and includes part of the scrotum and a small portion of the integument of the thigh internal to the saphenous opening. The perinceum and penis are supplied by the pudic nerve ; the scrotum by branches of the pudic, inferior pudendal, and ilio-inguinal nerves. Upper Limb.—The shoulder, supplied superiorly by the cervical plexus, receives its cutaneous nerves inferiorly as far as the insertion of the deltoid from the circumflex nerve. The arm internally is supplied by the intercosto-humeral nerve and the nerve of Wrisberg. The inner and anterior part is supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve ; and the posterior and outer part by the internal and external branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. The forearm, anteriorly and on the outer side, is supplied by the external cutaneous ; on its outer and posterior aspect, superiorly by the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral, and inferiorly by the radial branch of the same nerve. On the inner side, both in front and behind, is the internal cutaneous nerve, and inferiorly are branches of the ulnar. On the back of the hand are the radial and ulnar nerves, the radial supplying about three fingers and a half or less, and the ulnar one and a half or more. On the front of the hand, the median nerve supplies three fingers and a half, and the ulnar one and a half. In the palm is a branch of the median given off above the wrist. On the ball of the thumb are branches of the musculo-cutaneous, median, and radial nerves. Lower Limb.—The buttock is supplied from above by the cutaneous branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves with the ilio-hypo- gastric and lateral branches of the last dorsal nerves ; internally by the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves ; externally by the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve proceeding from the front; and inferiorly by branches of the small sciatic nerve proceeding from below. The thigh is supplied externally by the external cutaneous nerve ; posteriorly, and in the upper half of its inner aspect, by the small sciatic ; anteriorly, and in the lower half of the inner aspect, by the middle and internal cutaneous. The leg is supplied posteriorly by the small sciatic and short saphenous nerves ; internally by the long saphenous and branches of the internal cutaneous of the thigh ; and outside and in front by cutaneous branches of the external popliteal nerve, and by its musculo-cutaneous branch. On the dorsum of the foot are the branches of the musculo-cutaneous, supplying all the toes with the exception of the adjacent sides of the first and second, which are supplied by the anterior tibial, and the outer side of the little toe, which, with the outer side of the foot, is supplied by the short saphenous nerve. The long saphenous is the cutaneous nerve on the inner side of the foot. Y TT 2