594 THE CRANIAL NERVES. After receivicg one or two delicate filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, the third nerve divides near the orbit into two parts, which are continued into that cavity between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and separated one from the other by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. The upper, the smaller part, is directed inwards over the optic nerve to the superior rectus muscle of the eye and the elevator of the eyelid, to both which muscles it furnishes branches. The lower and larger portion of the nerve separates into three branches ; of these one reaches the inner rectus ; another the lower rectus ; and the third, the longest of the three, runs onwards between the lower and the outer rectus, and terminates below the ball of the eye in the inferior oblique muscle. The last-mentioned branch is connected with the lower part of the lenticular ganglion by a short thick cord, and gives two filaments to the lower rectus muscle. The several branches of the third nerve enter the muscles to which thsy are distributed on the surface which in each looks towards the eyeball. Position of certaust nerves at the cavernous s'mus, and as they enter the orbit.—There are several nerves, besides the third, placed close together at the cavernous sinus, and entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. To avoid repetition hereafter, the relative positions of these nerves may now be described. The nerves thus associated are the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth. At the cavernous sinus.—In the dura mater which bounds the cavernous sinus on the outer side, the third and fourth nerves and the ophthalmic division of the fifth are placed, as regards one another, in their numerical order both from above downwards and from within outwards. The sixth nerve is placed separately from the others close to the carotid artery, on the floor of the sinus and internal to the fifth nerve. Near the sphe- noidal fissure, through which they enter the orbit, the relative position of the nerves is changed, the sixth nerve being here close to the rest, and their number is augmented by the division of the third and the ophthalmic nerves—the former into two, the latter into three parts. In the sphenoidal fissure.—The fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal brandies of the fifth, which are here higher than the rest, lie on the same level, the fourth being the nearest to the inner side, and enter the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves pass between the heads of the outer rectus muscle, in the following relative position to each other : the upper division of the third highest, the nasal branch of the fifth next, the lower division of the third beneath these, and the sixth lowest of all. FOURTH PAm OF NERVES. The fourth (nervus trochlearis, n. patheticus) is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and is distributed entirely to the upper oblique muscle of the orbit. From the remoteness of its place of origin, the part of this nerve within the skull is longer than that of any other cranial nerve. It enters an aperture in the free border of the tentorium, outside that for the third nerve, and near the posterior clinoid process. Continuing onwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, the fourth nerve enters the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, and above the muscles. Its position with reference to other nerves in this part of its course has been already described.