BRACHIAL ARTERY. 1011 the vessel be behind the muscular fibres, and will guide him to the place at which they ought to be divided. Again, as the brachial artery occasionally deviates from its accustomed place in the arm, it is prudent, before beginning an operation on the living body, to be assured of its position by the pulsation. Should the vessel be thus displaced, it has the ordinary coverings of the brachial artery, except at the lower part of the arm, where some fibres of the pronator teres will re- quire to be divided in an operation for securing the vessel. When the brachial artery is double, or when two arteries are present in the arm, both being usually placed close together, they are accessible in the same operation. The circumstance of one being placed over the fascia (should this very unfrequent departure from the usual arrangement exist) will become manifest in the examination which ought to be made in all cases before an operation is begun. And, as regards the occasional position of one of the two arteries beneath a stratum of muscular fibres, or its removal to the inner side of the arm (in a line towards the inner condyle of the hume- rus), it need only be added that a knowledge of these exceptional cases will at once suggest the precautions which are necessary, and the steps which should be taken when they are met with.—The foregoing observations have reference to operations on the brachial artery, above the bend of the elbow ; the surgical anatomy of the vessel opposite that joint requires a separate notice. Fig. 700. Fig. 700.—Superficial Dissection op the Blood-Vessbls at the Bend op the Arm (from R. Quaiu). ^ a, two branches of the internal cutaneous nerve ; a', a', the descending twigs of the same nerve ; b, placed over the biceps near its in- sertion and close to the external cutaneous nerve ; b', anterior twigs of the same nerve accompany- ing the median vein ; 1, placed on the fascia near the bend of the arm, above the place where it has been opened to show the lower part of the brachial artery with its venae comites, of which one is entire, marked 2, and the other has been divided; +, is placed between this and the median nerve ; 3, basilic vein; 3', 3', ulnar veins ; 4, cephalic vein ; 4', radial vein ; 5, 5, median vein ; 3'. 5, median basilic vein ; 4', 5, median cephalic vein. At the lend of the elbow the disposition of the brachial artery is chiefly, or, at least, most commonly, of interest in a surgical point of view, because of its con- nection with the veins from which blood is usually drawn in the treatment of disease. The vein (median basilic) which is generally the most prominent and apparently best suited for venesection is commonly placed over the course of the brachial artery, separated from it only by a thin layer of fibrous structure (the expansion from the tendon of the biceps muscle); and under such circumstances, it ought not, if it can be 3 i: 2