982 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. the vagina and on tlie anterior surface, and gradually become less marked, and disappear towards its upper end. Structure and connections.—The walls of the vagina are thickest in front, in the vicinity of the iirethr.i, which indeed may be said to be imbedded in the anterior wall of the vaginal passage ; in other situations they are thinner. The vagina is firmly connected by areolar tissue to the neck of the bladder, and only loosely to the rectum and levatores ani muscles ; at the upper end, for about a fourth part of its length, it receives a covering behind from the peritoneum, which descends in the form of a cul-de-sac thus far between the vagina and the rectum. Externally the vagina presents a coat of dense areolar tissue, and be- neath this its walls are composed of unstriped muscle, which is not distinctly separable into strata, but is composed chiefly of fibres internally circular and externally longitudinal. Round the tube a layer of loose erectile tissue is found, which is most marked at the lower part. At its lower end, the vagina is embraced by muscular fibres, which con- stitute the sphincter vagince, already described (p. 2G6). The mucous membrane, besides the columns aud rugce, is provided with conical and filiform papillae, numerous muciparous glands and follicles, especially in its upj)er smoother portion and round the cervix uteri. This membrane, which is continuous with that of the uterus, is covered with a S(iuamous ex)ithelium. The vagina is largely supplied with vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from branches of the internal iliac, viz., the vaginal, internal pudic, vesical, and uterine (pp. 422, 428). The veins correspond; but they first surround the vagina with numerous branches, and form at each side a plexus named the vaginal plexus. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, and from the fourth sacral and pudic nerves of the spinal system; the former are traceable to the erectile tissue (p. 704). THE UTERUS. The uteruSf womb, or matrix, is a hollow organ, with very thick walls, which is intended to receive the ovum, retain and support it during the development of the foetus, and expel it at the time of p)arturition. The ova, discharged from the ovaries, reach the uterus by the Fallopian tubes, which open, one at each side, into the upper part of that organ. During pregnancy, the uterus undergoes a great enlargement in size and capacity, as well as other important changes. In the fully-developed virgin condi- tion, which is that to which the following descrij^tion applies, it is a pear- shaped body, flattened from before backwards, situated in the cavity of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, with its lower extremity projecting into the upper end of the vagina. It does not reach above the brim of the pelvis. Its upper end is turned upwards and forwards, whilst the lower is in the opposite direction ; so that its position corresponds with that of the axis of the inlet of the pelvis, and forms an angle or curve with the axis of the vagina, which coiTesponds with that of the outlet of the cavity. The uterus projects, as it were, upwards into a fold of the peritoneum, by which it is covered behind and above, and also in front, except for a short distance towards the lower end, where it is connected with the base of the bladder. Its free surface is in contact with the other pelvic viscera, some convolutions of the small intestine usually lying upon aird behind it. From its two sides the peritoneum is reflected in the form of a broad