THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 518 Course of Jihres from the spinal cord upwards through the medulla oblongata.—Assuming, for convenience of description, the existence of three white columns of the cord, these are disposed as follows. 1. The posterior column, with the exception of the fasciculus gracilis, is distinguished by the name of processus cuneatus and enters into the forma- tion of the restiform body, which ascends to the cerebellum. The fasciculus gracilis ascends to the cerebrum. 2. The lateral column ascends towards the base of the olivary body, and is disposed of in three ways ; (1,) some of its fibres from the surface and deep part join the restiform body and proceed with it to the cerebellum ; (2,) a larger number, passing obliquely inwards, then come forwards between the anterior columns, and crossing the median plane appear as the fibres of decussation, and form the chief part of the opposite anterior pyramid ; (3,) the remaining fibres pass up to the cerebrum, as the fasciculi teretes Fig, 351.—Diagrammatic Eeprbsenta- TION OF THE PASSAGE OP THE COLTJMNS OF THE Medulla Oblongata upwards AND DOWNWARDS. A, the specimen, which is seen from before, includes the medulla oblongata and the pons Varolii, with a small portion of the spinal marrow. The left lateral column (that to the readers right) has been lifted out of its place to the side, and the ante- rior and posterior columns of that side remain undisturbed : the right anterior and posterior columns have been removed, and the lateral column remains in its place. The upper part of the right pyramid is removed. The transverse fibres of the pons Varolii have been divided in circumscribed portions to different depths corresponding with the several places of passage of the columns of the medulla, P, pons Varolii, part of the anterior sur- face, where it has been left entire ; p, the right and left pyramids, the upper part of the right has been cut away ; p', the fibres of the left pyramid as they ascend through the pons exposed by the removal of the superficial transverse fibres ; p", placed on the deeper transverse fibres of the pons on the right side, close below the divided fibres of the pyramid ; a, left anterior column of the cord, passing upwards into the undecus- fated part of the anterior pyramid, and into a', the olivary column ; o, olivary body ; o', the continuation of the olivary column ascending deeply through the pons, and exposed by the removal of a small portion of the deeper transverse fiBres ; o", the same fibres divided by a deeper incision on the right side ; I, the right lateral column, passing upwards into the following parts, viz., x , the deeper part passing by decussation into the left pyramid ; r, the part passing into the I'estiform body ; ft, the part ascending in the back of the fourth ventricle as fasciculus teres ; to the outer side of this are seen the ascending fibres of the posterior pyramid; I', the left lateral column Hrawn aside from its place in the spinal cord ; the fasciculus teres, ft, and the part to the restiform body, r, cut short ; x, the deeper part passing by decussation into the right pyramid ; /, the part of the restiform body derived from the anterior column of the spinal cord ; pc, the posterior column of the left side exposed by the removal of tlie lateral column, and shown ascending to the restiform body as fasciculus cuneatus, fc: on the right side the posterior column being removed, fc, points to this fasciculus cuneatus cut short below. B, explanatory outline of the section of the spinal cord, a, anterior columns ; p, posterior; I, lateral. Fig. 351.