COWPER'S GLANDS—THE SPERMATIC CORD. 963 glands and follicles, commonly named the glands of Littre, the ducts of "which pass obliquely forwards through the membranes. They vary much in size and in the degree of loculation and ramification of their cavity. Besides these there are larger recesses or lacunfe, opening by oblique orifices turned forwards or down the canal. These are most abundant along the floor of the urethra, especially in its bulbous part. One large and conspicuous recess, situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis, is named the lacuna magna. Cowper^s Glands.—In the bulbous portion of the urethra, near its anterior end, are the two openings of the ducts of Cowper^s glands. These little glands themselves are seated farther back than the bulb, beneath the fore part of the membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the subpubic fascia, the anterior layer supporting them against the urethra. The arteries of the bulb pass above, and the transverse fibres of the com- pressor urethrse beneath these glands. They are two small firm rounded bodies, about the size of peas, and of a deep yellow colour. They are com- pound vesicular or racemose glands, composed of several small lobules held together by a firm investment. This latter, as well as the walls of the ducts, contains muscular tissue. The branched ducts, which commence in cellular crypts, unite to form a single excretory duct for each gland, which runs forwards with its fellow for about an inch or an inch and a half beneath the mucous membrane, and the two terminate in the floor of the bulbous part of the urethra by two minute orifices openisig obliquely. These glands secrete a viscid fluid, the use of which is not known ; their existence is said not to be constant, and they appear to diminish in old age : sometimes there is only one. Occasionally there is a third glandular body in front of and between Cowper's glands; this has been named the anterior prostate or anti-prostatic gland. The muscles in connection with the urethra and penis have been already described (p. 263). THE TESTES, AND THEIR EXCRETORY APPARATUS. The testicles or testes, the two glandular organs which secrete the seminal fluid, are situated in the scrotum, each being suspended by a collection of structures termed the spermatic cord. The spermatic cord.—The parts which enter into this cord are the excre- tory duct of the testicle, named the vas deferens, the spermatic artery and veins, lymphatics, nerves, and connecting areolar tissue. Besides this, both the cord and the testis have several coverings. The structures mentioned come together to form the cord at the internal or deep abdominal ring (p. 258), and, extending through the abdominal wall obliquely downwards and towards the middle line, escape at the superficial or external abdominal ring (p. 250), whence the cord descends over the front of the pubes into the scrotum. COVERINGS OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. The inguinal canal.—By the term inguinal canal is understood the space occupied by the spermatic cord as it passes through the abdominal wall. It extends from the deep to the superficial abdominal ring, and is about an inch and a half in length. In the upper part of this course, the cord has placed behind it the fascia transversalis, and is covered in front by the lower fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles ; low.er down, 3 R 2