520 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. nerve is succeeded by a third in the same line, which is connected with the nervus vagus, and is also placed to the outer side of that for the hypoglossus. Further out, a fourth nucleus begins to be observed, belonging to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The last change in the arrangement of these small grey masses consists in the gradual narrowing of the nucleus of the par va- gum, and the approximation of those for the hypoglossal and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, which were previously separated by it. Fig. 352.—Magnified Views op Trans- verse Sections of the Medulla Ob- longata (after Lockhart Clarke, and Keichert). -f These figures are to be looked upon as in part diagrammatic, no attempt having been made to represent the natural diflPerence of colour in the parts. For the most part, however, the grey substance is indicated by the smoother dark shading, and the white substance by distinct lines. A, represents a section made at the lower part of the decussation of the pyra- mids ; B, one immediately below the olivary bodies ; C, one a very short dis- tance below the calamus scriptorius ; and D, a section in the lower part of the fourth ventricle. The references are the following in all the four figures :— anterior pyramids ; p', their decussa- tion ; 0, olivary bodies ; o', the radiating fibres proceeding from their interior ; r, restiform bodies and their nucleus; pp, posterior pyramids ; R, raphe ; c, central canal and substance surrounding it; tr, grey tubercle of Rolando; /, anterior median fissure; fp, posterior median fissure ; a, arciform fibres; I, lateral column ; l\ larger cells and vesicular tract of the lateral column ; CI a, anterior roots of the first cervical nerve ; Glp, posterior roots; XII, hypoglossal nerve roots issuing at the side of the pyramid; XII', its nucleus; XI, XI', spinal accessory nerve and its nucleus; VIII', nucleus of the auditory nerve according to Reichert. In A and B, the decussation of the pyra- mids is represented; in A, the anterior and posterior cornua of the grey matter still exist as in the spinal cord ; in B, the anterior cornua are much diminished in size, the posterior have begun to pass outwards, and to be converted into the grey tubercles, and the intermediate nuclei to make their appearance between them ; in C, the central canal is wider and ap- proaches the posterior aspect, and the olivary body appears between the anterior pyramid and the lateral column ; in D, the canal is opened up in the fourth ventricle, and the various grey nuclei are for the most part in the vicinity of its floor. Langenbeck and Forg maintain that the part regarded by Stilling as the nucleus