DEVELOPMEN"T. WOLFFIAN BODIES. 993 Wolffian Bodies. In the embryos of the higher mammalia these organs are propor- tionally smaller, and disappear earlier than in those of the lower mammalia, birds or reptiles. In the human subject, accordingly, the Wolffian bodies are relatively small, and are found only in an early stage of foetal development. In the mammalian embryo, at a period when the intestinal canal still communicates with the umbilical vesicle by a wide orifice, the Wolffian bodies appear in the form of two slight ridges of blastema, placed one on each side of the line of attachment of the intestine to the vertebral column. On reaching their full size, which in man seems to take place about the fifth week of embryonic life, they have the appearance of two oblong reddish masses placed on the sides of the vertebral column, and extending from the lower end of the abdomen to the vicinity of the heart. Their structure is glandular ; clear pedunculated vesicles may be early discovered in them, opening into an excretory Fig. 691. — Diagram of the Fig. 691. Wolffian Bodies, Mullerian Ducts and Adjacent Parts previous to Sexual Dis- tinction, AS SEEN FROM BEFORE. ot, common blastema of ovaries or testicles; W, WollBan bodies ; w, Wolffian ducts ; m, m, Miil- lerian ducts; g c, genital cord ; UQy sinus uro-genitalis ; i, intes- tine ; cl, cloaca. duct which runs along the outer side of each organ. These vesicles subsequently become lengthened into transverse and somewhat tortuous coecal tubes, which still retain a dilatation, like the capsule of a Malpighian body, at their inner extremity. The Wolffian bodies are highly vascular, their larger blood- vessels running between and parallel with the transverse tubules. In the embryo of the coluber natrix, Rathke first observed vascular tufts, which he compared to the Malpighian corpuscles of the kidneys; and since the time of his discovery, Malpighian tufts have been found in the Wolffian bodies of birds and mammals. The ducts of the two bodies open into the sac of the allantois, to be presently described, A whitish secretion has been seen in the ducts of the Wolffian bodies of birds and serpents resembling the urine of those animals, and as the fluid of the allantois also has been found to contain uric acid, it is reasonable to think that the Wolffian bodies perform the office of kidneys during the early part of foetal life. They are accord ingly sometimes named ihQ primitive or primordial kidneys. As development advances, the Wolffian bodies rapidly become proportionally shorter and thicker : they shrink towards the lower part of the abdominal cavity, and soon become almost entirely wasted. By the middle of the third month only traces of them are visible in the human embryo. They take no part in the formation of the kidneys or supra-renal capsules, nor in that of the ovaries or body of the testes, but are connected with the origin of a part of the seminal passages in the male sex. Ihe Kidneys and Ureteric.—The kidneys commence subsequently to and independ- ently of the Wolffian bodies. They already exist about the sevenih week, as two small 3 T