VILLI OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 843 Their length varies from f th to -|rd of a line, or even more ; and the broad flattened kinds are about Jth or ^th of a line wide, and -^'Qth or 2^*^ of a line thick. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become gradually shorter, smaller, and fewer in number in the ileum. In the upper part of the small intestine Krause has estimated their number at from 50 to 90 in a square line ; and in the lower part at from 40 to 70 in the same space : he calculates their total number to be at least four millions. The structure of the villi is complicated : each consists of a prolongation of the proper mucous layer, covered by epithelium and enclosing blood-ves- Fig. 587.—Mag- nified View of THE Blood-ves- sels OP THE In- testinal Villi. The drawing was taken from a pre- paration injected by Lieberkiihn, and shows in each villus a small artery and vein with the in- termediate capil- lary network, sels, one or more lacteal vessels, and fine muscular fibres, vs^ith a greater or less number of small granular corpuscles and fat globules, of various sizes. Fig. 587. Fig. 58 S. — Injected Lacteal Vessels in the Villi of the Human Intestine. A, two villi in which, the lacteals are represented as filled with white substance and the blood-vessels with dark (from Teichmann) : a, h, the lacteal vessels, single in one villus and double with cross loops in the other ; c, the hori- zontal lacteal vessels with which those of the villi communicate ; d, the blood-vessels, consisting of small arteries and veins with capillary network between. B, injected lacteal in a villus (shaded dark), showing an example not very common of a looped net- work a, which is connected by a single vessel with the horizontal lacteal vessel h : the preparation was made from the intestine of a young man who died suddenly while digestion was going on (from W. Krause). ?? Fig. B. Nerves have not yet been demonstrated in the villi, though they are probably not wanting. Each villus receives one or more small arterial twigs, which