707 Fig. 457. THE EYELIDS AND CONJUNCTIVA. Fig. 457.—Meibomian Glands, being broader near the centre and narrowing towards the angles of the lids. The lower is thinner, much narrower, and more nearly of a uniform breadth throughout. The free or ciliary edge of the cartilages, which is straight, is thicker than any other part. At the inner canthus the cartilages are fixed by the fibrous slips of the tendo palpebrarum (p. 172) ; and at the outer angle they are attached to the malar bone by a fibrous band belonging to the palpebral ligament, and named the external tarsal ligament. The palpebral ligament is a fibrous membrane placed beneath the orbicularis muscle, attached peripherally to the margin of the orbit, and internally to the tarsal cartilages near the inner free edge. The membrane is thickest at the outer part of the orbit. Meibomian glands.—On the ocular surface of each lid are seen from twenty to thirty parallel vertical lines of yellow granules, lying immediately under the conjunctival mucous membrane. They are compound sebaceous follicles, Lachrymal Gland, &c., as seen FROM THE Deep Surface of the Etelids of the Left Side. «, palpebral conjunctiva ; 1, lachrymal gland; 2, openings of seven or eight glandular ducts ; 3, upper and lower puncta lachry- malia; 6, 6, shut ends of the upper and lower Meibomian glands, of which the openings are indicated along the margins of the eyelids, embedded in grooves at the back of the tarsal cartilages ; and they open on the free margin of the lids by minute orifices, generally as many in number as the lines of follicles themselves. These glands consist of nearly straight excretory tubes, each of which is closed at the end, and has numerous small csecal appendages projecting from its sides. The tubes are lined by mucous membrane, on the surface of which is a layer of scaly or pavement epithelium cells. According to Heinrich Miiller there is likewise a layer of unstriped muscular fibre contained in each eyelid ; that of the upper lid arising from the under surftice of the levator palpebrse, that of the lower lid arising from the neighbourhood of the inferior oblique muscle, and each being inserted near the margin of the tarsal cartilage. It may also be mentioned in this place that the same writer describes a layer of unstriped muscle crossing the spheno-maxillary fissure, corresponding to a more largely developed layer found in the extensive aponeurotic part of the orbital wall of various mammalia. This set of fibres has been more particularly described by Turner (H. Miiller, in Zeitschr, f. Wiss, Zool. 1858, p. 541; W. Turner, in Nat. Hist, Rev. 1862, p. 106). The eyelashes (cilia) are strong short curved hairs, arranged in two or more rows along the margin of the lids, at the line of union between the skin and the conjunctival mucous membrane. The lashes of the upper lid, more numerous and longer than the lower, have the convexity of their curve directed downwards and forwards ; whilst those of the lower lid are arched in the opposite direction. Near the inner canthus these hairs are weaker and more scattered. 3 A 2