DISSECTION OF THE PERIXJira. 1069 duct (p. 487). The thoracic duct may be followed, with the concurrence of the dissectors of the head and neck, to its termination in the angle of junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins ; and, with the assistance of the dissectors of the abdomen, it may be also followed down to its commencement uader the crus of the diaphragm. The sympathetic nerve with its chain of ganglia, is now to be traced over the heads of the ribs and the vertebral column : its communications with the intercostal nerves are to be made out, and the splanchnic nerves arising from it dissected (p. 693). The upper surface of the diaphragm having been cleaned with the knife, the dissectors of the thorax will examine along with those of the abdomen the anatomy of this muscle, directing their attention to its various muscular and tendinous parts, and to the apertures for the passage of the aorta, gullet, and vena cava inferior, and observing the distribution of nerves and blood- vessels in its substance (p. 243). 6, Articulations.—When the dissection of the rest of the thorax has been completed, the dissectors will, if the subject be favorable, make an examina- tion of the articulations of the vertebral column and ribs (p. 121). Lst them study, in particular, the anterior and posterior common ligaments, the intervertebral substance, the ligamenta subflava of the arches, the form an I movements of the articular processes, and the various costo-vertebral, cosro- transverse and other ligaments. In doing this, the dissectors should make an attentive examination of the nature and extent of the movements of the different ribs, and the manner in which they are influenced by the move- ments of the vertebral column. IV.—ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. The right and left sides of these regions constitute each a part. Their dissection should not be completed in less than four or five weeks. It com- prehends the examination of the perineeum and genital organs, the abdominal parietes over the whole of the external oblique muscles, extending in front to the linea alba and below to Poupart's ligament, the viscera and deeper parts of the abdomen and pelvis, and the lower surface of the diaphragm. 1. Ferinceum.—If the subject be a male, the first day on which it is in the rooms will be set apart for the dissection of the perinteum ; and of this opportunity the dissectors of the abdomen must be prepared to avail themselves. A lithotomy staff is to be passed into the bladder, and the hands and feet having been tied together, the subject is to be placed in the same position as for the operation of lithotomy, near the edge of the table. A block is then to be placed below the pelvis, and the scrotum is to be tied up to the handle of the staff. The body may, however, be still more con- veniently maintained in the proper position, as is done in some schools, by means of a simple frame with two upright spokes, behind which the limbs are placed while the perinseum is projected forwards between them. A careful incision is to be made in the middle line from the back of the scrotum to the anus, and, being carried round the margin of the anus, is to be prolonged as far as the coccyx ; while a transverse incision is to be directed across the middle line in front of the anus from one ischial tuberosity to the other. Let the dissector reflect the flaps of skin, exposing the external sphincter, and clear out the fat completely from the ischio- /ectal fossa of the left side, taking care not to injure the reflection of fascia which bounds it in front in a line with the central point of the perinseum ; and let him study the walls of the fossa (p. 261). On the right side,