986 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. position, two semilunar folds, which are sometimes called respectively, the anterior and the posterior ligaments of the uterus. The former are also named the vesico-uterine^ and the latter, which are more marked, the recto- uterine folds. Fig. 686. A. B Fig. 686, A.—Section of the Glandular Structure op the Human Utkrus at tue COMMENCEMENT OF PREGNANcr (from E. H. Weber) f a, part of the cavity of the uterus showing the orifices of the glands ; d, a number of the tubular elands, some of which are simple, others slightly convoluted and divided at ihe extremities. Fig. 686, B.—Small Portion op the Uterine Mucous Membrane after Recent Impregnation, seen prom the inner surface (from Sharpey). The specimen is represented as viewed upon a dark ground, and shows the orifices of the uterine glands, in most of which, as at 1, the epithelium remains, and in some, as at 2, it has been lost. The broad ligaments (ligamenta lata) are formed on each side by a fold of the peritoneum, which is directed laterally outwards from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus, to be connected with the sides of the pelvic cavity. Between the two layers of the serous membrane are placed, first, the Fallopian tube, which, as will be more particularly described, runs along the upper margin of the broad ligament ; secondly, the round ligament, which is in front ; thirdly, the ovary and its ligament, which lie in a special oflTshoot of the ligamentum latum, behind ; and, lastly, blood- vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, with some scattered fibres from the super- ficial muscular layer of the uterus. The ligament of the ovary is merely a dense fibro-areolar cord, containing also, according to some authorities, uterine muscular fibres, and measuring about an inch and a half in length, which extends from the inner end of the ovary to the upper angle of the uterus, immediately behind and below the point of attachment of the Fallopian tube ; it causes a slight elevation of the posterior layer of the serous membrane, aud, together with the ovary itself, forms the lower limit of a triangular portion of the broad ligament, which has been named the ala vespertilionis or bat's wing. The round ligaments are two cord-like bundles of fibres, about four or five inches in length, attached to the upper angles of the uterus, one on either side (ligamentum teres uteri), immediately in front of the Fallopian tube. From this po nt each ligament proceeds upwards, outwards, and forwards, to gain the internal inguinal ring ; and after having passed, like the spermatic cord in the male, through the inguinal canal, reaches the fore part of the pubic symphysis, where its fibres expand and become united with the