THE MAMMARY GLANDS. 1002 MAMMARY GLANDS. The mammary glands (mammfe), the organs of lactation in the female, are accessory parts to the reproductive system. They give a name to a large class of animals (Mammalia), which are distinguished by the possession of these organs. When fully developed in the human female, they form, together with the integuments and a considerable quantity of fat, two rounded eminences (the breasts) placed one at each side on the front of the thorax. These extend from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and from the side of the sternum to the axilla. A little below the centre of each breast, on a level with the fourth rib, projects a small conical body named the nipple (mamilla), which points somewhat outwards and upwards. The sur- face of the nipple is dark, and around it there is a coloured circle or areola, within which the skin is also of a darker tinge than elsewhere. In the virgin, these parts are of a rosy pink colonr, but they are always darker in women who have borne children. Even in the second month of pregnancy the areola begins to enlarge and acquire a darker tinge ; these changes go on increasicg as gestation advances, and are regarded as reliable signs in judging of suspected pregnancy. After lactation is over, the dark colour subsides, but not entirely. The skin of the nipple is marked with many wrinkles, and is covered with papilke ; besides this, it is perforated at the tip by numerous foramina, which are the openings of the lactiferous ducts : and near its base, as well as upon the surface of the areola, there are scat- tered rounded elevations, which are caused by the presence of little glands with branched ducts, four or five of which open on each elevation. The tissue of the nipple contains a large number of vessels, together with much plain muscular tissue, and its papillse are highly sensitive ; it is capable of a certain degree of erection from mechanical excitement, which may be partly caused by turgescence of its vessels, but is probably due, in greater part, to contraction of the muscular fibres. The base of the mammary gland, which is nearly circular, is flattened, or slightly concave, and has its longest diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axilla. It rests on the pectoral muscle, and is con- nected to it by a layer of areolar tissue. The thickest part of the gland is near the centre, opposite the nipple, but the full and even form of the breasts depends chiefly on the presence of a large quantity of fat, which lies beneath the skin, covers the substance of the gland, and penetrates the intervals between its lobes and lobules. This fatty tissue, which is of a bright yellow tinge and rather firm, is divided into lobulated masses by numerous laminae of fibrous or very dense areolar tissue, which are con- nected with the skin on the one hand, and on the other with the firm areolar investment of the gland itself, which investment is connected behind by similar laminse with the areolar membrane covering the pectoral muscle : these laminae serve to support the gland. Beneath the areola and the nipple there is no fat, but merely the firm areolar tissue and vessels sur- rounding the lactiferous ducts. Structure.—The mammary gland consists of a number of distinct glandular masses or lobes, each having a separate excretory duct, held together by a very firm intervening fibrous or areolar tissue, and having some adipose tissue penetrating between them. Each of these divisions of the gland is again subdivided into smaller lobes, and these again into smaller and smaller lobules, which are flattened or depressed, and held together by areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and ducts. The substance of the