903 PULMONARY AND BRONCHIAL CAPILLARIES. are scarcely wider than the vessels themselves. Those which lie nearest to the mouths of tlie alveoli are observed arching and coiled over and through the elastic fibres found in the interalveolar septa (Luschka and Badoky). The coats of the capillaries are also exceedingly thin, and thus more readily allow of the free exhalation and absorption of which the pulmonary cells are the seat. ^ The brandies of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchial tubes, but they sub- divide more frequently, and are much smaller, especially in their remote ramifications. They ramify Avithout anastomoses, and at length terminate upon the walls of the air-cells and on those of the bronchia in a fine and dense capillary networh, from which the radicles of the pulmonary veins arise. The smaller branches of these veins, especially near the surface of the lung, frequently do not accompany the bronchia and arterial branches (Addison, Bourgery), but are found to run alone for a short distance through the substance of the organ, and then to join some deeper vein which passes by the side of a bronchial tube, uniting together, and also forming, according to Ros- signol, frequent lateral communications. The veins coalesce into large branches, which at length accompany the arteries, and thus proceed to the root of the lung. In their course through the lung, the artery is usually found above and in front of a bronchial tube, and the vein below. The pulmonary vessels differ from the systemic in regard to their contents, inas- much as the artery conveys dark blood, whilst the veins carry red blood. The pul- monary veins, unlike the other veins of the body, are not more capacious than their corresponding arteries; indeed, according to Winslow, Santorini, Haller, and others, they are somewhat less so. These veins have no valves. Lastly, it may be remarked, that whilst the arteries of ditferent lobules are independent, their veins freely anas- tomose together. The hronchial vessels.—The bronchial arteries and veiiis, which are much smaller than the pulmonary vessels, carry blood for the nutrition of the lung, and are doubtless also the principal source of the mucous secretion found in the interior of the air-tubes, and of the thin albuminous fluid which moistens the pleura pulmonalis. The hronchial arteries, from one to three in number for each lung, arise from the aorta, or from an intercostal artery, and follow the divisions of the air-tubes through the lung. They are ultimately distributed in three ways : (1) many of their branches ramify in the bronchial lymphatic glands, the coats of the large blood-vessels, and in the fibrous and muscular walls of the large and small air-tubes, and give supply to a copious capillary plexus in the bronchial mucous membrane, which in fine bronchial tubes is con- tinuous with that supplied by the pulmonary artery ; (2) others form plexuses in the interlobular areolar tissue ; (3) branches spread out upon the surfaco of the lung beneath the pleura, forming plexuses and a capillary network, which may be distinguished from those of the pulmonary vessels of the superficial air-cells by their tortuous course and open arrangement, and also by their being outside the investing membrane of the lobules, and by ulti- mately ending in the branches of the superficial set of hronchial veins. The hronchial veins have not quite so large a distribution in the lung as the bronchial arteries, since part of the blood carried by the bronchial arteries is returned by the pulmonary veins. The superficial and deep bronchial veins unite at the root of the lung, opening on the right side into the vena azygos, and on the left usually into the superior intercostal vein. The absorbent vessels of the lungs have been already sufficiently described (p. 496). Nerves.—The lungs are supplied with nerves from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses (pp. 623, 693). These are formed chiefly by branches