973 SEMINAL VESICLES AND EJACULATORY DUCTS. manner for one or two inches amongst tlie vessels of the spermatic cord, where it ends by a closed extremity. Its length, when it is unravelled, ranges from one inch and a half to fourteen inches; and its breadth increases towards its blind extremity. Sometimes this diverticulum is branched, and occasionally there are two or more such aberrant ducts. Its structure appears to be similar to that of the vas deferens. Its origin is probably connected with the Wolffian body of the foetus, but the exact mode of its formation and its office are unknown. Luschka states that occasionally it does not communicate with the canal of the epididymis, but appears to be a simple serous cyst. Organ of Giraldes.—This is a minute structure situated in the front of the cord, and in contact with the caput epididymis. It consists usually of several small irregular masses containing convoluted tubules lined with squamous epithelium, and is scarcely to be recognised until the surrounding connective tissue has been rendered transparent by reagents. Its tubules appear to be persistent elements of the Wolffian body. (Giraldes, in Bulletin de la Soc. Anat. de Paris, 1857, and in Journal de la Physiologie, 1861.) THE SEMINAL VESICLES AND EJACULATORY DUCTS. The vesiculce seminales are two membranous receptacles, situated, one on each side, upon the base of the bladder, between it and the rectum. When distended, they form two long-shaped sacculated bodies, somewhat flattened above, where they are firmly attached to the bladder, but convex below ; they are widened behind and narrow in front. Their length is usually about two inches and a half, and their greatest breadth from four to six lines ; but they vary in size in dififerent individuals, and also on opposite sides of the same subject. Their posterior obtuse extremities are separated Fig- 680. widely from each other, but anteriorly they converge so as to approach the two vasa deferentia, which run Fig. 680.—Dissection of the Base op the Bladder and Prostate G-land, showing the Vesioul^ Seminales and Vasa Dbijerentia (from Haller). a', lower surface of the bladder at the place of reflection of the peritoneum ; 6, the part above covered by the peritoneum ; left vas deferens, ending in e, the ejaculatory duct ; s, left vesicula seminalis joining the same duct ; s, s, the right vas deferens and right vesicula semi- nalis, which has been unravelled; p, under side of the prostate gland ; m, part of the urethra ; w, ?t, the ureters, the right o&e turned aside. forwards to the prostate between them. The small triangulai* portion of the base of the bladder, which is marked off by the two vesicula semi-