1035 THE Vessels op the Groin to a Fig. 712. COVERINGS OF A FEMORAL IIERNLE. Fig. 712.—View of the relation of beliiud tliem to their anterior surface. AVithiii the caual the hernia is very small, being constricted by the unyielding structures which form that passage ; but when it has passed beyond the saphenous opening, it enlarges in the loose fiitty layers of the groin ; and, as the tumour increases, it extends outwards in the groin towards the iliac spine of the hip-bone. Hence its greatest diameter is transverse. Femoral Hernia, &c. (from K. Quain). \ In the upper part of tlie figure a portion of the flat muscles of the abdomen has been removed, displaying in part the transversalis fixscia and peritoneal lining of the abdomen ; in the lower the fascia lata of the thigh is in part removed and the sheath of the femoral vessels opened : the sac of the femoral hernial tumour has also been opened. a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; h, aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle above the exter- nal inguinal aperture ; c, the abdomi- nal peritoneum and fascia trans- versalis ', d, the iliac portion of the fiiscia lata near the saphenic opening ; e, sac of a femoral hernia ; 1, points to the femoral artery ; 2, femoral vein at the place where it is joined by the saphenic vein ; 3, epigastric artery and vein passing up towards the back of the rectus muscle ; +, placed upon the upper part of the femoral vein close below the common trunk of the epigastric and an aberrant obturator artery ; the latter artery is seen in this case to pass close to the vein and between it and the neck of the hernial tumour. Coverings of the liernia.—The sac which is pushed before the protruded viscus, is derived from the external fossa of the peritoneum ; except, how- eA^er, when the cord of the obliterated umbilical artery is placed outside its ordinary position, in which case the serous membrane furnishes the sac from its internal fossa. After the sac, the hernia carries before it the sub- serous membrane (septum crurale of Cloquet), which covers the femoral ring, and likewise an elongation from the sheath of the femoral vessels. These two structures combined constitute a single very thin covering, known as the fascia propria of the hernia (Cooper). It sometimes happens that tbe hernia is protruded through an opening in the sheath, which there- fore in that event does not contribute to form the fascia propria. Diagnosis.—Passing over the general symptoms of abdominal hernijB and the means of forming the diagnosis between a hernia and several other dis- eases with which it is liable to be confounded,—subjects which fall within the province of treatises on practical surgery,—the observations to be made in this place may be limited to the anatomical circumstances which charac- terise femoral hernia, and serve to distinguish it from the inguinal form of the complaint. When the inguinal hernia descends to the scrotum or to the labium pudendi, and when the femoral hernia extends some distance