548 THE CEREBRUM. descending cornu on one side, over the constricted part of the cerebrum, to the extremity of the descending cornu of the other side. It is bounded above by the corpus callosum and fornix in the middle, and more externally on each side by a free margin of the hemisphere : inferiorly it is bounded near the middle line by the corpora quadrigemina, and on each side by the crus cerebri and posterior part of the optic thalamus. In the free margin of the hertiisphere brought into view by opening out the part of the transverse fissure which leads into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, there are seen (1st) the ribbon-like ledge formed by the corpus fimbriatum, internal to the hippocampus major ; (2nd) beneath this, a small grey indented ridge, the fascia dentata ; and (3rd) beneath the fascia dentata the gyrus hippocampi. On making a transverse section, it is seen that the corpus fimbriatum is the free margin of the white substance of the hemisphere, and that the fascia dentata is the free margin of the cortical substance, and is continuous with the grey matter of the hippocampus major, and that thus the hippocampus major is the swelling in reverse of the sulcus between the fascia dentata and gyrus hippocampi. The fascia dentata can be traced up to the pad or bourrelet : its upper part is free of dentations, and is sometimes named fasciola cinerea. The dentations cor- respond with blood-vessels passing to and from the choroid plexus. The velum interpositum or tela choroidea, the membrane which connects the choroid plexuses of the two sides together, is a prolongation of the pia mater through the transverse fissure. It corresponds in extent with tlie fornix, which rests upon its upper surface ; and its more highly vascular free borders, projecting into the lateral ventricles, form the choroid plexuses. The choroid plexuses appear like two red knotted fringes, reaching from the foramen of Monro, where they meet together beneath the fornix, to the point of each descending cornu. They consist of a highly vascular villous membrane. The villi with which they are covered are again divided upon their surfaces and at their borders into smaller processes, along which fine vessels are seen to run. Numerous small vessels pass between the plexuses and the surface of the corpora striata, as well as other neighbouring parts, and the epithelium of the ventricles is continued over their surface. Thus it is only at the foramen of Monro that the epithelial lining of the lateral ven- tricles is continuous with that of the third ventricle. The epithelium changes its character where it covers the plexus. It is there composed of large spheroidal corpuscles, in each of which is seen, besides* a distinct nucleus, several yellowish granules, and one or more dark round oil-drops. Accord- ing to Henle each of these cells is provided with short, slender, acuminate, tran- sparent, and colourless processes. On raising the velum interpositum, two slight vascular fringes are seen running along its under surface, and diverging from each other behind. They form the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The choroid artery enters the velum interpositum at the point of the descending cornu ; and other arteries enter from behind, beneath the corpus callosum. The greater number of the veins terminate in two principal vessels named the veins of Galen, which run backwards on the velum inter- positum, and passing out beneath the corpus callosum pour their blood into the straight sinus, having generally first united into a single trunk. Bicliat supposed that the arachnoid membrane entered the third ventricle in the form of a tubular process, which passed beneath the posterior end of the corpus callosum and fornix, through the velum interpositum, and thus opened into the