517 STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The floor of the fourth ventricle, or space between the medulla and cere- bellum, is formed by that portion of the back of the medulla oblongata which is situated above the divergence of the posterior pyramids. Upon it, the central grey matter of the medulla oblongata, is, as it were, opened out to view. It is marked by a median furrow, ending inferiorly in the calamus scriptorius, and at its lower end is a tubular recess, passing down the centre of the medulla for a few lines. This, which has been sometimes named the ventricle of Arantius, is the upper expanded portion of the central canal of the spinal cord. In the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle are two longitudinal eminences, one on each side of the middle furrow, greyish below, but appearing white higher up. These are formed by two bundles of white fibres, mixed with much grey matter, the fasciculi teretes of some authors, les faisceaux innomines of Cruveilhier. They seem to be derived from part of the lateral columns of the cord ; Cruveilhier believes, however, that they arise from the grey matter at the lower end of the medulla oblongata. Surmounting the free inner margin of the restiform body and posterior pyramid is a thin lamina, the ligula (smaller pons of Meckel) occupying the angle between the cerebellum and the restiform body, and stretching towards its fellow of the opposite side. It derives a certain interest from indicating how the cylhider, which is closed in the spinal cord, might be completed in this region of the medulla oblongata by the union of the opposite margins. Crossing the grey matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle several transverse white lines, or striae, are usually observed, passing outwards from the median fissure, and round the sides of the restiform bodies. Some of these white striae form part of the roots of the auditory nerves, a few run slantingly upwards and outwards on the floor of the ventricle, whilst others again embrace the corresponding half of the medulla oblongata. These transverse lines are sometimes wanting, in which case the white fibres on which they depend probably exist at some depth below the surface. Santorini, and subsequently Rolando, described a set of superficial white fibres on the fore part and sides of the medulla oblongata, crossing over it below the olivary bodies, j^&rcE vel processus arciformes. They belong to a system of white fibres which pass transversely or horizontally outwards, and are probably continuous with the septal fibres about to be noticed. Sometimes the greater part of the pyramidal and olivary bodies is covered by a thin stratum of these transverse fibres, which appear to issue from the anterior median fissure; but, most commonly, these superficial fibres are found only at the lower extremity of the olive, as the arciform fibres already mentioned. Besides the superficial transverse fibres now referred to, the medulla oblongata presents other horizontal fibres in its interior, some of them disposed in a mesial raphe or septum, and numerous others proceeding from that septum transversely outwards. Of these last, the majority, passing through the olivary bodies, and in part the pyramids, enter the corpus dentatum and form the whole of its white substance; and these fibres, then passing radiately through the grey capsule, turn backwards to the fasciculus cuneatus and lateralis, those of them which pierce the anterior wall of the capsule arching round it to reach their destination. Other fibres pass behind the olivary into the restiform bodies, and seem to terminate in the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. (See KoUiker's Handbuch der Gewebelehre, 1863, p. 316.) A small band of fibres is represented by Reichert as passing obliquely downwards and backwards from the side of the pons Varolii, descending between the auditory and facial nerves, and crossing over the upper end of the posterior pyramids. He names it the ala pontis. It probably is part of the ligula. (Reichert, Bau des Menschl. Gehirns, part 1st, plate I., 1859).