THE EAR. 758 hollow of tlie fovea hemisplierica, from the bottom of wbicb many brancbes of nerve enter. The sacculus appears to have a cavity distinct from that of the utricle, but is filled with the like thin and clear fluid, endolym^)]}, and contains similar otoconia in its wall. It is prolonged below into a short narrow duct, canalis reuniens, which opens abruptly into the mem- branous canal of the cochlea. Fig. 513. A. B. Fig. 513.—Views uf the Interior of the Right Labyrinth with its Membranous Parts and Nerves (from Brescliet). f A, the outer wall of the osseous labyrinth in part removed so as to display the mem- branous parts within, 1, commencement of the spiral tube of the cochlea ; 2, posterior semicircular canal partially opened, showing its membranous canal and ampulla ; 3, external or horizontal canal entirely opened ; 4, superior canal ; 5, utriculus or common sinus with its group of otoliths ; 6, saccule with its otoliths ; 7, placed on the lamina spiralis in the commencement of the scala vestibuli ; 7', scala tympani; 8, membranous ampulla of the superior semicircular canal; 9, ampulla of the horizontal, and 10, that of the posterior semicircular canal, B, membranous labyrinth and nervous twigs detached; 1, facial nerve in the meatus auditorius internus ; 2, anterior division of the auditory nerve giving branches to 5, 8, and 9, the utricle and the ampuUjB of the superior and external canals ; 3, posterior division of the auditory nerve, giving branches to the saccule; 6, posterior ampulla, 10, and cochlea, 4 ; 7, the united part of the superior and posterior canals; 11, the posterior extremity of the external canal, Semtciecular Cakals,—The membranous semicircular canals are about one third the diameter of the osseous tubes in which they are lodged, and are dilated into ampuUte within the ampullary enlargements of those tubes. At the ampulla? they are thicker and less translucent than in the rest of their extent, and nearly fill their bony cases. That part of each ampulla which is towards the concavity of the semicircle of the canal is free ; whilst the opposite portion is flattened, receives branches of nerves and blood- vessels, and presents on its inner surface a transverse projection, septum transversum, which partly divides the cavity into two. The ampullae like- wise contain otoliths in their epithelial lining. Auditory nerve : vestibular division.—At the bottom of the meatus audi- torius internus the auditory nerve divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, which, broken up into minute filaments, pass through the perforations of the cribriform plate which separates the meatus from the internal ear, and are distributed respectively to the cochlea and vestibule. In both branches, as well as in the trunk, there are numerous nerve-cells, appa- rently both with and without poles. The vestibular nerve divides into five branches, which proceed respectively to the utricle, the saccule, and the three ampullge of the semicircular canals : those for the utricle and the superior and external semicircular canals enter the cavity in a group along the crista vestibuli ; the fibrils for the sacculus enter the vestibule by a