923 FORM AND POSITION OF THE THYMUS GLAND. Fig. 647. Fig. 647.—One Lobe op the Human Thymus lobes. In the foetus, and during early infancy, this organ is relatively larger than in after life; its proportion to the weight of the body in the new-born infant being that of 1 to 240 or 400, whilst at the end of three weeks it becomes only 1 to 1160, and in the adult 1 to 1800 (Krause). In advanced life the thyroid body becomes in- duratedj and frequently contains earthy deposit; its vesicles also attain a very large size. 2. THE THYMUS GLAND. The thymus gland or body (glandula thymus, corpus thymicum) is a tem- porary organ which reaches its greatest size at about the end of the second year, after which period it ceases to grow, and is gradually reduced to a mere vestige. Its function, like that of the thyroid body, is unknown, although it is probable that it is in some way connected with the elaboration of the blood in infancy. When examined in its mature state in an infant under two years of ago, it appears as a narrow elongated glandular-look- ing body, situated partly in the thorax, and partly in the lower region of the neck : below, it lies in the anterior mediastinal space, close behind the ster- num, and in front of the great vessels and pericardium ; above it reaches upwards upon the trachea in the neck. Its colour is greyish, with a pinkish tinge ; its consistence is soft and pulpy, and its surface appears distinctly lobulated. It consists of two lateral iiarts, or lobes, which touch each other along the middle line, and are nearly symmetrical in form, though generally unequal in size, sometimes the left, and at other times the right lobe being the larger of the two. An intermediate lobe often exists between the two lateral ones, and occasionally the whole body forms a single mass. The forms of the smaller lobules also differ on the two sides. Gland (from Kolliker). The lower part presents a large cavity which has been opened, and within it are seen nume- rous apertures leading into the smaller lobes. Each lateral lobe is of an elongated triangular form, its base being directed downwards. The summit, or upper ex- tremity, usually mounts up into the neck, reaching as high as to the lower border of the thyroid body. The base rests on the upper part of the pericar- dium, to which it is connected by areolar tissue. The anterior surface, slightly convex, is covered by the first and the upper part of the second piece of the sternum, reaching, in the infant at birth, as low down as the level of the fourth costal cartilage. It is attached to the sternum by loose areolar tissue, but opposite the upper part of that bone is separated from it by the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, which also cover it in the neck. The posterior surface, some- what concave, rests, in the thorax, upon part of the pericardium, upon the front of the aortic arch and the large arteries arising from it, and also on