878 THE LIVEE. size which are not surrounded with lobules. These aberrant ducts, as they might be called, were described by Ferrein and by Kiernan ; they anastomose together in form of a network, and are accompanied by branches of the vena portse, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. Structure of the gall-bladder.—Besides the peritoneal investment, the walls of the gall-bladder are formed of two distinct layers of tissue constituting its areolar or fibrous and its mucous coats. The areolar coat is strong, and consists of bands of dense shining white fibres, which interlace in all directions. These fibres resemble those of areolar tissue. In quadrupeds recently-killed the gall-bladder contracts on the application of a stimulus ; and in the larger species, as well as in man, muscular fibres of the plain variety have been found mingled with those of the areolar coat. These fibres have principally a longitudinal direction, but some run transversely. Their nuclei are indistinct. The areolar coat forms the framework of the organ, and supports the larger blood-vessels and lymphatics. The mucous coat, which is generally strongly tinged of a yellowish-brown colour with bile, is elevated upon its inner surface into very numerous small ridges, which, uniting together into meshes, leave between them depressions of difi"erent sizes and of various polygonal forms. This structure gives to the interior of the gall-bladder an areolar aspect, which is similar to what is seen on a smaller scale in the vesiculse seminales. These areolar intervals become smaller towards the fundus and neck of the gall-bladder ; and at the bottom of the larger ones, other minute depressions, which may be seen with a magnifying lens, apparently lead into numerous mucous recesses or follicles. The whole of the mucous membrane is covered by columnar epithelium, and it secretes an abundance of viscid mucus. At the places where the neck of the gall-bladder curves on itself, there are strong folds or projections of its mucous and areolar coats into the interior. In the cystic duct, the mucous membrane is elevated internally in a sin- gular manner into a series of crescentic folds, which are arranged in an oblique direction, and succeed closely to each other, so as to present very much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. When distended, the outer surface of the duct appears to be indented in the situation of these folds, and dilated or swollen in the intervals, so as to present an irregularly sacculated or twisted appearance. It is of importance to note the influence of this valve in causing the retention of biliary concretions in the gall- bladder. Among the monographs which give an account of the structure of the liver, the following may be specially mentioned :—Kiernan, in Phil. Trans- actions, 1833 ; Theile, in Wagner's Handworterbuch d. Physiologie, p. 308; Rainey on the Capillaries of the Liver, in Microsc. Journal, I. p. 231 ; Handheld Jones, in Phil. Transactions, 1849 and 1853 ; Budge, in Miiller's Archiv, 1850 ; Beale, Lectures in Medical Times and Gazette, 1856, and "On some points in the Anatomy of the Liver," in Philos. Trans. 1856; Chrzonszczewsky, in Virchow's Archiv, XXXV. p. 153, 1866. ; Frey, in Zeitsch. f. Wissensch. Zoologie, March, 1866. THE BILE. The bile, as it flows from the liver, is a thin greenish yellow fluid; but that which remains in the gall-bladder becomes darker, more viscid, and ropy. It contains as adventitious particles mucus and epithelium corpuscles, but no hepatic cells. The