813 THE PALATE..—THE TONSILS. THE PALATE. The roof of the mouth is formed by the palate, which consists of two por- tions ; the fore part being named the hard palate, and the back part, the soft palate. The osseous framework of the hard palate, already described with the bones of the face, is covered by the periosteum, and by the lining membrane of the mouth, which adhere intimately together. The mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the gums, is thick, dense, rather pale, and much corrugated, especially in front and at the sides ; but is smoother, thinner, and of a deeper colour behind. Along the middle line is a ridge or raphe, ending in front in a small eminence, which corresponds with the lower opening of the anterior palatine canal, and receives the terminal filaments of the naso-palatine and anterior palatine nerves. The membrane of the hard palate is provided with many muciparous glands, which form a continuous layer between the membrane and the bone, and it is covered with a squamous epithelium. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati), is formed of a doubling of mucous membrane inclosing muscular fibres and numerous glands. It constitutes an incomplete and movable partition between the mouth and the pharynx, con- tinued from the posterior border of the hard palate, obliquely downwards and backwards. Its form and its inferior connections, bounding the isthmus of the fauces, have been already described, together with the muscles which enter into its composition, at p. 189. The anterior or under surface of the velum, which is visible in the mouth, is concave. The mucous membrane, continuous with that of the hard palate, is thinner and darker than it, and is covered like it with scaly epithelium. The median ridge or raphe, which is continued backwards from the hard palate to the base of the uvula, indicates the original separation of the velum into two lateral halves. The posterior surface of the soft palate, slightly convex or arched, is con- tinuous above with the floor of the posterior nares. It is slightly elevated along the middle line, opposite to the uvula. The greater portion of its mucous membrane, as well as that of the free margin of the velum, is covered with a squamous epithelium ; but quite at its upper portion, near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, the epithelium is columnar and ciliated. On both surfaces of the velum are found numerous small glands, called the palatine glands. They particularly abound on the upper surface, where they form quite a glandular layer ; they are also very abundant in the uvula. THE TONSILS. The tonsils (tonsillse, amygdalae) are two prominent bodies, which occupy the recesses formed, one on each side of the fauces, between the anterior and posterior palatine arches and the pillars of the fauces. They are usually about six lines in length, and four in width and thick- ness ; but they vary much in size in different individuals. The outer side of the tonsil is connected with the inner surface of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and approaches very near to the internal carotid artery. Considered in relation to the surface of the neck, the tonsil corresponds to the angle of ths lower jaw, where it may be felt beneath the skin when it is enlarged. Its inner surfac3, projecting into the fauces