749 THE SMALL BONES AND THEIR MUSCLES. tlie two processes (crus breve) of the incus projects nearly horizontally backwards from the upper part of the body of the bone, and is connected by ligamentous fibres with the posterior wall of the tympanum near the entrance of the mastoid cells. The long process (crus longum) tapers rather more gradually, and descends nearly vertically behind the handle of the malleus : at its extremity it is bent inwards, and is suddenly narrowed into a short neck ; and upon this is set a flattened rounded tubercle (pro- cessus lenticularis), tipped with cartilage. This tubercle, which articulates with the head of the stapes, was formerly, under the name of os orbiculare sen lenticulare, described as a separate bone, which indeed it originally is in childhood. The stapes, the third and innermost bone of the ear, is in shape remark- ably like a stirrup, and is composed of a head, a base, and two crura. The head is directed outwards, and has on its end a slight depression, covered with cartilage, which articulates with the lenticular process of the incus. The base is a plate of bone placed in the fenestra ovalis, to the margin of which it is fixed by ligamentous fibres. The form of the base is irregularly oval, the upper margin being curved, while the lower is nearly straight. The crura of the stapes diverge from a constricted part (neck) of the bone, situated close to the head, and are attached to the outer surface of the base near its extremities. The anterior crus is the shorter and straighter of the two. The crura, with the base of the stapes, enclose a small triangular or arched space, which in the recent state is occupied by a thin membrane stretched across. A shallow groove runs round the opposed surfaces of the bone, and into this the membrane is received. LIGAMENTS AND MUSCLES OF THE TYMPANUM. Ligaments.—In the articulations of the small bones of the ear with each, other, the connection is strengthened by ligamentous fibres which cover the synovial membranes. The attachment of the bones of the ear to the walls of the tympanum is effected partly by the reflections of the mucous membrane lining that cavity, but chiefly by muscles and by the following ligaments. The suspensory ligameyd of the malleus consists of a small bundle of fibres, which descends perpendicularly from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus. The incus is likewise suspended by a small ligament (the posterior liga- ment of the incus), which extends from near the point of the short crus directly backwards towards the posterior wall of the tympanum, where it is attached near the entrance to the mastoid cells. Arnold describes an upper ligament which attaches the incus, near its articulation with the malleus, to the roof of the tympanum. It lies close behind the suspensory ligament of the malleus. The annular or orbicular ligament of the stapes connects the base of the bone to the margin of the fenestra ovalis, in which it is lodged. Muscles.—There are three well-determined muscles of the tympanum. Sommerring describes four, and some authors a larger number ; but their descriptions are not confirmed by later research. Of the three muscles generally recognised, two are attached to the malleus, and one to the stapes. The tensor tympani (musculus internus mallei) is the largest of these muscles. It consists of a taperiug fleshy part, about half an inch in length, and a slender tendon. The muscular fibres arise from the cartilaginous