929 MEDUI>LAEY AND CORTICAL SUBSTAJ^CES. circular muscle round the papilla where the wall of the calyx is attached to it. The substance of the kidney consists of two parts, the medullary and cortical, differing in colour, consistence, and structure. The internal or medullary substance does not form a continuous struc- ture, but is collected into a series of conical masses called the pyramids of Malpighi, the bases of which, directed towards the surface of the kidney, are imbedded in the cortical substance, whilst their apices are turned to- wards the sinus, and, projecting into the calyces, form the papilla} already mentioned. There are generally more than twelve pyramids, but their number is inconstant, varying from eight to eighteen. The medullary portion of the kidney is more dense than the cortical, and is distinctly striated, owing to its consisting of small diverging uriniferous tubes, and to its bloodvessels being arranged in a similar manner. Towards the papillfe the pyramids are of lighter colour than the cortical substance, but at their base they are usually purplish and darker. The external or cortical substance is situated immediately within the fibrous capsule, and forms the superficial part of the organ, throughout its whole extent to the depth of about two lines, and moreover sends prolonga- tions inwards (septula renum, or columnge Bertini) between the pyramids. It is of a nearly uniform light crimson brown appearance, and is soft and easily lacerated in directions vertical to the surface. When so lacerated, its torn surface exhibits a columnar appearance, coarser than that of torn medullary substance, and more rough and irregular ; the columnar appear- ance arising from the altei-nation of groups of straight and convoluted tubules, and the roughness being caused by the convoluted tubules and the interspersion of small round bodies of a deeper colour, the Malpighian corpuscles. The groups of straight tubules in the cortical substance are con- tinued from those of the medullary substance, and are surrounded by the convoluted tubes into which they pass, not only on their sides but likewise at their outer extremities, so that no straight tubules reach the surface of the organ : they are termed pyramids of Ferrein. The Malpighian cor- puscles are imbedded among the convoluted tubes, and appear disposed in double rows between the pyramids of Ferrein, and likewise more superficially, but nowhere reach quite to the surface. The pyramidal masses found in the adult kidney indicate the original sepa- ration of this gland into lobules in the earlier stages of its growth (fig. 659). Each of these primitive lobules is in fact a pyraniid surrounded by a proper investment of cortical substance, and is analogous to one of the lobules of the divided kidneys, seen in many of the lower animals. As the human kidney continues to be developed, the adjacent surfaces of the lobules coalesce and the gland becomes a single mass, and the contiguous parts of the originally separate cortical investments, being blended together, form the partitions between the pyramids already described. Moreover, upon the surface of the kidney even in the adult, after the removal of the fibrous capsule, faintly-marked furrows may be traced on the cortical substance, opposite the intervals in the interior between the several papilljB with their calyces ; and not unfrequently instances occur in which a deeper separation of the original lobules by grooves remains apparent in the adult kidney. Tubuli uriniferi.—On examining the summit of one of the papillte care- fully, especially with the aid of a lens, a number of small orifices may be seen, varying in diameter from ^th to ^th of an iuch ; they are fre- quently collected in large numbers at the bottom of a slight depression or 3 p