THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. 889 together with the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid masclea ; lower down, by the left innoDiiuate vein, then by the commencement of the innominate artery and left carotid, which pa«is round to its sides ; next by the arch of the aorta and the deep cardiac plexus of nerves, and quite at its bifurcation, by the extremity of the pulmonary artery, where it divides into its right and left branches. Placed between the two pleurje, the trachea is contained in the posterior mediastinum, and has on its right side the pleura and pneumo- gastric nerve, and on the left, the left carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric and its recurrent branch, together with some cardiac nerves. Fig. 623.—Outline showing the Gene- Fig. 623. RAL Form of thk Larynx, Trachea, AND Bronchi, as seen from before. \ h, the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; e, epiglottis ; t, superior, and t', inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage ; c, middle of the cricoid cartilage ; t); the trachea, showing sixteen cartilaginous rings ; b, the right, and b', the left bronchus. The right ^and left bronchi com- mence at the bifurcation of the trachea and diverge to reach the cor- responding lungs. They diflfer from each other in length, wddth, direc- tion, and connection with other parts. The right bronchus, wider but shorter than the left, measuring about an inch in length, passes out- wards almost horizontally into the root of the right lung on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra: it is embraced above by the vena azygos, which hooks forwards over it, to end in the vena cava superior; the right pulmonary artery lies at first below it and then in front of it. The left bronchus, smaller in diameter, but longer than the right, being nearly two inches in length, inclines ob- liquely downwards and outwards beneath the arch of the aorta to reach the root of the left lung, which it enters on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra, that is, about an inch lower than the right bron- chus. The left bronchus crosses in front of the oesophagus and descend- ing aorta : the arch of the aorta turns backwards and to the left over it, and the left pulmonary artery lies first above it and then on its anterior surface. The remaining connections of each bronchus, as it lies within the root of the corresponding lung, and the mode in wliich it sub- divides there into bronchia, will be hereafter described. In form the bronchi exactly resemble the trachea on a smaller scale ;