THE SPmAL CORD. 512 and lateral columns. Another set of fibres slant principally upwards, but some downwards, in the posterior columns, and, interlacing with each other, most probably enter the grey matter at different heights. Some are lost to view in the posterior white columns, and it is uncertain whether or not they immediately ascend through these columns to the brain. Much discussion has taken place as to the course of the fibres in the cord, and their ultimate destination. It is easily understood that by the examination of sections difficult to prepare, limited in extent, liable to undergo changes in the preparation, and giving views confined each to little more than a thin lamina, it is scarcely to be expected that the full history of many tortuous fibres can be accurately ascertained. Thus it remains still undecided whether any of the fibres of the nerve-roots pass up all the way to the brain. Volkmann concluded that none of them reached the brain, arguing from measurements of the size of the cord in different regions, that the cord could not contain in its upper regions all those nerve-fibres which were traceable to it in the lower. KoUiker pointed out the fallacy of this conclusion in so far as Volkmann had not made proper allowance for the diminished size of the fibres as they ascend in the cord; but although Yolkmann's argument was thereby invalidated, it appears impossible to prove by microscopic observations that fibres of nerve-roots traced into the grey matter, and observed to emerge into the white matter, do not again re-enter the grey, and terminate there. (Lockhart Clarke, Phil. Trans., 1851, 1853, 1859; Stilling, Neue Unters. u. d. Bau des Rlickenmarks, 1856, 1857; Lenhossec, Neue Unters. u. d. Bau d. cent. Nervensystems, Yienna, 1855; F. Coll, Beitrage z. feineren Bau d. Euckenmarks, Zurich, 1860. For a full account of the whole subject, see •Kolliker's Handbuch der Gewebelehre des Menschen, 4th ed., 1863). It is also undetermined in what relation the nerve-fibres and branched or multipolar cells of the cord stand to each other. Most are inclined to believe that the radiating prolongations of the cells are in actual continuity with the axial filaments of nerve fibres, whether proceeding from nerve-roots or from different parts of the cord itself; and the direct observation of such continuity has been affirmed by some, as by Schroeder Yan der Kolk. But it is still considered by observers who have given most careful attention to this investigation that, although such continuity may be regarded as of the greatest probability, and although it may be considered as proved in some other parts of the nervous system, especially in the lower animals, the actual passage of nerve-fibres into the processes of nerve-cells has not been proved as the result of actual observation in the spinal cord of man or of mammals. Results of Experiments.—Seeing the imperfect nature of the knowledge of the minute structure of the spinal cord as obtained from microscopic observations, it may be proper to give here a short account of the more important results of physiological experiments as to the course of the transmission of sensory impressions and motor influences through it, although it is at present difficult to reconcile them with the results of anatomical research. For the most important information upon this subject, derived from vivisection, science is indebted to the researches of Brown- Sgquard and Schiff. When the superior or dorsal * half of the cord is divided in animals, sensation still continues in the hind limbs. Sensation likewise continues after division of the inferior half of the cord, and even after the superior and inferior parts of the cord have been divided at different levels in such a manner that the hinder extremity of the cord may be supposed to communicate with the brain by means of the central grey matter only. But sensation is abolished by piercing the interior of the cord with an instrument, and so moving it as to divide as much as possible the grey matter without injuring the white matter. Moreover, section of the cord and irritation of the cut surfaces produce no pain, provided that the plane of section be sufficiently removed from the origins of nerves, as may be accomplished in the cervical region; but in the neighbourhood of nerve roots there is great sensibility. From all these circumstances it appears probable that the sensory fibres, viz., those of the posterior roots, pass quickly into the grey substance, and that the grey substance conducts sensory impressions upwards. Moreover, the circumstance that the posterior as well as the anterior surfaces of transverse sections made near the nerve roots are sensitive seems * The student is reminded that "superior" applied to animals corresponds to "posterior" applied to the human subject.