957 STRUCTURE OF THE CORPORA CAVERNOSA. tissue of tlie two sides. From the direction of these slits, the intermediate white portions of the septum are made to resemble in arrangement the teeth of a comb, and hence it is named septum pectiniforme. The external fibrous investment of the cavernous structure is white and dense, from half a line to a line thick, and very strong and elastic. It is composed for the most part of longitudinal bundles of shining white fibres, with numerous well-developed elastic fibres, enclosing the two corpora cavernosa in a common covering ; but internal to this, in each compartment, is a layer of circular fibres, which enter into the formation of the septum. (J. Wilson and Ellis.) From the interior of the fibrous envelope, and from the sides of the septum, numerous lamellae, bands, and cords, composed of an extensible fibrous tissue, and named traheculce, pass inwards, and run through and across the cavity in all directions, thus sub- dividing it into a multitude of interstices, and Fig. 671. giving the entire structure a spongy character. Fig. 671.—Tbansveese Section of the Penis in the DISTENDED STATE. The integument is represented as surrounding the deeper parts ; the erectile tissue occupying the corpora cavernosa and the septum pectiniforme descending be- tween these bodies ; u, placed on the section of the spongy body, marks the urethra in the form of a trans- verse slit; V, the single dorsal vein ; a, the dorsal artery, and n, the nerve, of one side. The trabeculse, whether lamelliform or cord-like, are larger and stronger near the circumference than along the centre of each cavernous body, and Fig. 672. Fig. 672.—Portion op the Erectile Tissue of the Corpus Cavernosum mag- nified, SHOWING THE AREO- LAR Structure and the Vascular Distribution (from J. Miiller). a, a small artery supported by the larger trabecute, and branching out on all sides ; e, the tendril-like arterial tufts or helicine arteries of Miiller ; d, the areolar structure formed by the finer trabeculse. they also become gradually thicker towards the crura. The interspaces, conversely, are larger in the middle than near the surface ; their long diameter is, in the latter situation, placed transversely to that of the penis ; and they become larger towards the forepart of the penis, squamous epithelium. The trabecula3 contain the ordinary white fibrous tissue and fiue elastic fibres, together with pale muscular fibres, arteries, and They are lined by a layer of