703 HYPOGASTRIC AND PELVIC PLEXUSES. distinct ganglia. At the lower end it divides into two parts, which are directed forwards, one to each side of the pelvic viscera, and form the pelvic plexuses. PELVIC PLEXUS. The pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses, one on each side, are placed in the lower part of the pelvic cavity by the side of the rectum, and of the vagina in the female. The nerves, prolonged from the hypogastric plexus, enter into repeated communications as they descend, and form at the points of connection small knots, which contain a little ganglionic matter. After descending some way, they become united with branches of the spinal nerves, as well as with a few offsets of the sacral ganglia, and the union of all constitutes the pelvic plexus. The spinal branches, which enter into the plexus, are furnished from the third and fourth sacral nerves, especially the third ; and filaments are likewise added from the first and second sacral nerves. Small ganglia are formed at the places of union of the spinal nerves, as well as elsewhere in the plexus (plexus gangliosus—Tiedemann). From the plexus so constituted numerous nerves are distributed to the pelvic viscera. They correspond with the branches of the internal iliac artery, and vary with the sex ; thus, besides hsemorrhoidal and vesical nerves, which are common to both sexes, there are nerves special to each :—namely, in the male, for the prostate, vesicula seminalis, and vas deferens ; in the female, for the vagina, uterus, ovary, and Fallopian tube. The nerves distributed to the urinary bladder and the vagina contain a larger proportion of spinal nerves than those furnished to the other pelvic viscera. Inferior Hemorrhoidal Nerves.—These slender nerves proceed from the back part of the pelvic plexus. They join with the nerves (superior hsemorrhoidal) which descend with the inferior mesenteric artery, and penetrate the coats of the rectum. Vesical Plexus.—The nerves of the urinary bladder are very numerous. They are directed from the anterior part of the pelvic plexus to the side and lower part of the bladder. At first, these nerves accompany the vesical blood-vessels, but afterwards they leave the vessels, and subdivide into minute branches before perforating the muscular coat of the organ. Secondary plexuses are given in the male to the vas deferens and the vesicula seminalis. The nerves of the vas deferens ramify round that tube, and communicate in the spermatic cord with the nerves of the spermatic plexus. Those furnished to the vesicula semi7ialis form an interlacement on the vesicula, and some branches penetrate its substance. Other filaments from the prostatic nerves reach the same structure. Prostatic Plexus.-—The nerves of this plexus are of considerable size, and pass onwards between the prostate gland and the levator ani. Some are furnished to the prostate and to the vesicula seminalis ; and the plexus is then continued forwards to supply the erectile substance of the penis, where its nerves are named '' cavernous." Cavernous nerves of the penis.—These are very slender, and difiicult to dissect. Continuing from the prostatic plexus they pass onwards, beneath the arch of the pubes, and through the muscular structure connected with the membranous part of the urethra, to the dorsum of the penis. At the anterior margin of the levator ani muscle the cavernous nerves are joined