971 EPIDIDYMIS—VAS DEFERENS. long, and when unrolled, each, is found to con-^ist of a single coiled duct, varying from six to eight inches in length, and the diameter of which gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis (Huschke). Opposite the globus major these separate efferent vessels open, at intervals which in the unravelled tube are found to be about three inches in length, into a single canal or duct, the intervening and subsequent convolutions of which constitute the epididymis itself. Fig. 679. Fig. 679.—Injected Testicle, Epididymis, and Vas Deferens (from KoUiker after Arnold). a, body of the testicle ; 6, lo- bules ; c, vasa recta ; (i, rete vas- culosum; e, vasa efferentia; /, eoni vasculosi ; g, epididymis ; h, vas deferens ; i, vas aberraus ; m, branches of the spermatic artery passing to the testicle and epidi- dymis ; n, ramification in the testis ; o, deferential artery ; jj, its union with a twig of the sper- matic artery. The canal of the epididy- mis is disposed in very nu- merous coils, and extends from the globus major down- wards to the globus minor or tail, where, turning upwards, it is continued on as the vas deferens. When its com- plicated flexuosities are un- rolled it is found to be twenty feet and upwards in length. The smallest wind- ings are supported and held together by fine areolar tissue; but, besides this, numerous fibrous partitions are interposed between larger masses of the coils, which have been named the lobes of the epididymis, the general direction of which is across that body. The canal of the epididymis is, at its commencement, about -^Qth. of an inch in diameter, but diminishing as it proceeds towards the globus minor, it is about g-^oth of an inch, after which it again increases in size, and becomes less tortuous as it approaches the vas deferens. Its coats, which are at first very thin, become thicker in its progress. The vasa efferentia and the tube of the epididymis differ from the other portions of the ducts of the testis in their epithelium being ciliated. In the epididymis the cells are greatly elongated, in the vasa efferentia they are shorter ; in the lower part of the epididymis the cilia disappear (Becker, corroborated in the human subject, by KoUiker). VAS DEFERENS. The vas deferens, or excretory duct of the testis, is a hard round tube, which forms the continuation upwards of the convoluted canal of the epi- didymis. It commences at the lower end of the epididymis, and, at first