1029 VARIETIES OF INGUINAL HERNIA. —a change, namely, from the internal fossa to the external one. The alteration of the fo?sa does not, however, in all cases coincide with a change ill the position of the hernia ; for the cord remaining from the obliteration of the umbilical artery, (which separates the fossae,) instead of crossing behind the tiiangle of Hesselbach so as to leave room at either side of it for a hernia to penetrate that space, lies, it has been already stated, some- times directly behind the epigastric artery : — indeed, according to the observations of Cloquet, it is most frequently in this position and when the cord in question is so placed, the hernia, whatever may be its position in the triangle of Hesselbach, can occupy only the internal peritoneal fossa. The inference, however, most important in a practical or surgical point of view, to be drawn from the varying position of the neck of the internal hernia, has reference not to the cord just alluded to, but to the epigastric artery—i. e. to the greater or less distance of the neck of the sac from that vessel. The investments of the internal hernia are likewise liable to be influenced by the position at which it penetrates the abdominal wall. It is in all likelihood when the protrusion occurs outside the ordinary situation, that the hernia escapes beneath the conjoined tendon of the two deeper muscles. It is, moreover, under the same circumstances that the hernia is more directly in front of the spermatic cord, and that the cremasteric fibres are among its investments. (Ellis.) The internal inguinal hernia is very rarely met with in the female. In the single example of the disease observed by Richard Quain, as well as in the cases (a very small number) found recorded in books, the hernia, though not inconsiderable in size, was still covered with the tendon of the external oblique muscle, f Distinctive diagnosis of oblique and direct inguinal hernice.—The following circumstances, which are brought together from the facts detailed in the preceding pages, or are inferences from those facts, will serve to distin- guish the two forms of the disease from one another. The oblique hernia, when recently formed, is elongated and narrow at its upper part, being restrained by the tendon of the external oblique muscle. It is, however, attended with a degree of fulness in the inguinal canal, as well as tender- ness upon pressure being made over the canal. After passing through the external abdominal ring, it is observed to be directly in front of the spermatic cord. The direct hernia, when of small size, is globular ; it is protruded more immediately over the pubes ; causes no fulness or tender- ness in the canal ; and the spermatic cord is usually behind its outer side. But the distinction between the two herni;© admits of being made only when the disease is recent and the tumour moderate in size ; for when oblique inguinal hernia is of long standing, and has attained considerable * Recherches, &c., p. 39, note. t See "Treatise on Ruptures," by IVIr. Lawrence, 4tli edit. p. 213, und an essay by M. Velpeau in " Annales de Chirurgie Fran^aise et etrangere," torn. i. p. 352. M. Velpeau, in the essay just referred to, proposes to recognise three varieties of internal hernia, viz., 1. the ordinary form which passes straight through the external abdominal ring ; 2. an outer oblique variety, which passes through a part of the inguinal canal; and 3, an inner oblique one, which entering the abdominal wall close to the edge of the rectus muscle, is directed outwards in order to reach the opening in the external oblique muscle. The first two forms adverted to by M. Velpeau l)ave been described in the text. With respect to the third variety or class sought to be introduced by that surgeon, it should be observed that he seems to have been led to propose it by the obser- vation of a single case—an example of internal hernia in the female.