TRANSVERSE AND COLLATERAL FIBRES. 557 The accessory fibres of the peduncular system are as follows :—• a. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum, (processus ad cerebrum,) which are continued up beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and form part of the tegmentum. h. The bundle of fibres on each side, named the fillet (lemniscus). This, which is originally derived from the anterior column of the cord, proceeds from the olivary fasciculus of the medulla oblongata, as previously described. Reinforced by fibres from the corpus dentatum of the olivary body, it ascends through the back part of the pons, still increasing in size. Appearing at the side of the cerebral peduncle, above the upper border of the pons, it divides into two portions, of which one crosses over the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina, meeting its fellow of the opposite side ; while the other is continued upwards with the fibres of the tegmentum. c. Other fibres accessory to the peduncles take their rise in the grey matter of the corpora quadrigemina (the hrachia), and proceed on to the thalami. d. Lastly, fibres of another set, having a similar destination, are derived from the corpora geniculata. 2. The transverse commissural, or connecting fibres of the cerebrum, include the following sets:— a. The cross fibres of the corpus callosum, passing laterally into the substance of Fig. 380.—View op a Dissection op the Fig. 380. Fibres in the Left Cerebral Hemi- sphere prom below (after Mayo). \ The most of the middle lobe in its lower part has been removed, a, the anterior, and a', the posterior part of the fillet of the corpus callosum; g, section of the crus cerebri; 6, tegmentum ; g, crust separated from the last by the locus niger; c', fibres stretching from the back part of the corpus callosum into the posterior lobe ; e, fasciculus uncinatus connecting the anterior and middle lobes across the Sylvian fissure ; /, /, trans- verse fibres from the corpus callosum passing into the cerebral hemispheres ; I, back part of the thalamus ; m, corpus albicans; q, median section of the corpus callosum ; r, radiating fibres of the hemispheres ; t, ante- rior pillar of the fornix descending into the corpus albicans (m) ; v, collateral fibres of the convolutions ; x , anterior commissure. the hemispheres, some being directed up- wards, whilst others spread outwards on the roof of the lateral ventricles, forming there what is named the tapetum. Having intersected the peduncular radiating fibres, they spread out into the hemispheres, reaching everywhere the grey matter of the convolutions. b. The fibres of the anterior commissure pass laterally into the corpora striata, and bending backwards, extend a long way into the middle of the hemispheres, on each side. c. The fib7'es of the posterior commissure run through the optic thalami, and are soon lost in the substance of the hemispheres outside these bodies. 3. The third system of fibres in the cerebrum, the longitudinal or collateral, in- cludes those of the fornix, taenia semicircularis, and striae longitudinales of the corpus callosum, already sufficiently described ; and likewise the following :— a. Fibres of the gyrus fornicatus ; fillet of the corpus callosum (Mayo).—These fibres constitute the white substance of the gyrus fornicatus, and take a longitudiual course immediately above the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum. In front