563 DURA MATP:R.—FALX.—TENTORIUM. arachnoid, and with, it, therefore, forms a Jihro-serous membrane, which is free, smooth, and epitheliated on its inner surface, where it is turned towards the brain and cord, but which, by its outer surface, is connected with the surrounding parts, in a somewhat different manner in the cranium and in the spinal canal. The outer surface of the cranial portion adheres to the inner surface of the bones, and forms their internal periosteum. The connection between the two depends, in a great measure, on blood-vessels and small fibrous processes, which pass from one to the other ; and the dura mater, when detached and allowed to float in water, presents a flocculent appearance on its outer surface, in consequence of the torn parts projecting from it. The adhesion between the membrane and the bone is more intimate opposite the sutures, and also generally at the base of the skull, which is uneven, and perforated by numerous foramina, through which the dura mater is prolonged to the outer surface, being there continuous with the pericranium. The fibrous tissue of the dura mater becomes blended with the areolar sheaths of the nerves, at the foramina which give issue to them. In leaving the skull, the dura mater is inijimately attached to the margin of the foramen magnum ; but within the vertebral canal it forms a loose sheath around the cord (theca), and is not adherent to the bones, which have an independent periosteum. Towards the lower end of the canal, a few fibrous slips x^roceed from the outer surface of the dura mater to be fixed to the vertebrae. The space intervening between the wall of the canal and the dura mater is occupied by loose fat, by watery areolar tissue, and by a plexus of spinal veins. Opposite each intervertebral foramen the dura-matral theca presents two openings, placed side by side, which give passage to the two roots of the corresponding spinal nerve. It is continued as a tubular prolongation on the nerve, and is lost in its sheath. Besides this, it is connected with the circumference of the foramen by areolar tissue. The fibrous tissue of the dura mater, especially within the skull, is divi- sible into two distinct layers, and at various jtlaces these layers separate from each other and leave intervening channels, called sinuses. These sinuses, which have been elsewhere described, are canals for venous blood, and are lined with a continuation of the internal membrane of the veins. The dura mater also sends inwards iuto the cavity of the skull three strong membranous processes, or partitions, formed by duplication of its inner layer. Of these, one descends vertically in the median plane, and is received into the longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. This is the falx cerebri. The second is an arched or vaulted partition, stretched across the back part of the skull, between the cerebrum and the cerebellum; it is named the tentorium cerebelli. Below this, another vertical partition, named falx cerebelli, of small extent, passes down between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. The falx cerebri is narrow in front, where it is fixed to the crista galli, and broader behind, where it is attached to the middle of the upper surface of the tentorium, along which line of attachment the straight sinus is situated. Along its upper convex border, which is attached above to the middle line of the inner surface of the cranium, runs the superior longi- tudinal sinus. Its under edge is free, and reaches to within a short distance of the corpus callosum, approaching nearer to it behind. This border con- tains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium, or tent, is elevated in the middle, and declines downwards