DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 8(51 Fii?. 603. A B 0 D Fig. 603.—Outlines of the Form and Position of the Alimentary Canal in SoooEssiVE Stages of its Development. A, alimentary canal, &c., in an embryo of four weeks ; B, at six weeks ; C, at eight weeks ; D, at ten weeks ; I, the primitive lungs connected with the pharynx ; s, the stomach ; d, duodenum ; i, the small intestine ; i!, the large ; c, the coicum and vermi- form appendage ; r, the rectum ; cl, in A, the cloaca ; a, in B, the anus distinct from si, the sinus uro-genitalis ; v, the yolk sac; vi, the vitello-intestinal duct; u, the urinary bladder and urachus leading to the allantois ; g, the genital ducts. The dilated portion of the tube which forms the stomach turns over on its right side, so that the border, which is connected to the vertebral column by the membra- nous fold (or true mesogastrium) comes to be turned to the left,—the position of the tube being still vertical, like the stomach of some animals. By degrees it becomes more dilated, chiefly on what is now the left border but subsequently the great cur- vature, and assumes first an oblique and finally a transverse position, carrying with it the mesogastrium, from which the great omentum is afterwards produced. A slight indication of the pylorus is seen at the third month. Upon the surface of the part of the canal which immediately succeeds the stomach, and which forms the duodenum, the rudiments of the liver, pancreas, and spleen are simultaneously depo- sited : in connection with the two former, protrusions of the mucous membrane grow into their blastemic mass and form the commencement of their principal ducts. The place of distinction between the small and the large intestine, which is soon indicated by the protrusion of the caecum, is at a point just below the apex or middle of the simple loop already mentioned. As the sviaU intestine grows, the part below the duodenum forms a coil which at first lies in the commencing umbilical cord, but retires again into the abdomen about the tenth week; afterwards it con- tinues to elongate, and its convolutions become more and more numerous. The large intestine is at first less in calibre than the small. In the early embryo there is at first no caecum. This part of the bowel gradually grows out from the rest, and in the first instance forms a tube of uniform calibre, without any appearance of the vermiform appendix : subsequently the lower part of the tube ceases to grow in the same proportion, and becomes the appendix, whilst the upper portion continues to be developed with the rest of the intestine. The caecum now appears as a protru- sion a little below the apex of the bend in the primitive intestinal tube, and, together with the commencing colon, and the coil of small intestine, is at first lodged in the wide part of the umbilical cord which is next the body of the embryo. The ileo- CEecal valve appears at the commencement of the third month. When the coils of intestine and caecum have retired from the umbilicus into the abdomen, the colon is at first entirely to the left of the convolutions of the small intestines, but subse-