THE VITliEOUS BODY. 731 On the structure of the retina may be consulted Heinrich Muller, in Siebold und Kolliker's Zeitschrift, 1851 and 1856; M. Schultze, " Obs. de retinee Struct, penit./' 1859 ; Goodsir, in Edin. Med. Journal, 1855; KoUiker, Handbuch d. Gewebelehre, 4th ed., 1863; and Henle, Handbuch d. System. Anatomie, vol. ii,, 1866. Fig. 480. Fig. Fig. 480.—Vertical Section through the Choroid and Eetina kear tfie Ora Serrata (from Kolliker). 22 a, hyaloid membrane ; a', indications of fibres -which radiate from the anterior margin of the retina into tiie vitreous body ; h, limiting membrane and fibrous layer of the retina ; c, ganglionic layer with a few cells shown ; d, inner nuclear Inyer ; 6, inter- nuclear substance; /, outer nuclear layer ; g, columnar layer ; A, dark pigment; i, middle layer of the choroid ; I, beginning of one of the ciliary processes ; m, ciliary part of the retina. (The recess shown at a' is not constant.) Fig. 481.—A Sii;ALL Portion of the Ciliary Part op the Retina (from Kolliker). ?p A, human ; B, from the ox; 1, pigment cells ; 2, cells forming the ciliary part. THE VITREOUS BODY. The vitreous body is the Jargest of the transparent parts occupying the centre of the eye-ball. Globular in form, it occupies about four-fifths of the ball, and supports the delicate retina, being in contact with the membrana limitans. On the fore part it is hollowed out for the reception of the lens and its capsule, and behind it is more closely connected with the retina than at the sides, having received at that part offsets of the retinal vessels in foetal life. It is quite transparent, and like a thin jelly in its interior. Its surface is formed by a thin enveloping glassy membrane, named hyaloid, and as long as this membrane is entire, it retains its form in water. No vessels enter it, and its nutrition must be therefore dependent upon the surrounding vascular textures—viz., the retina, and the ciliary processes. The hyaloid is an extremely thin and clear membrane. When traced forwards it is found to be connected, opposite the outer part of the ciliary processes, with a firm membrane passing in front of the marginal part of the lens (suspensory ligament), while a thinner layer, proceeding inwards from this, becomes united with the posterior layer of the capsule of the lens, so that it is doubtful whether or not the membrane is prolonged between the capsule and the vitreous body. On the inner surface of the hyaloid are a few delicate nuclei. Fibres have been supposed to be pro-