THE ILEO-COLIC VALVE—THE COLON. 853 inwards towards the csecum and colon. The lower fold is the larger of the two ; the upper is placed more horizontally. At each end of the aperture these folds coalesce, and are then prolonged as a single ridge Fig. 598.—View of the Ileo-colic Valve FROM THE Large Intestine. ^ The figure shows the lowest part of the ileum, i, joining the csecum, c, and the ascending colon, o, which have been opened anteriorly so as to display the ileo-colic valve; a, the lower, and e, the upper seg- ment of the valve. for a short distance round the cavity of the intestine, forming the frcena or retinacula of the valve. The op- posed surfaces of the marginal folds which look towards the ileum, and are continuous with its mucous sur- face, are covered like it with villi; while their other surfaces, turned to- ward the large intestine, are smooth and destitute of villi. When the csecum is distended, the frtena of the valve are stretched, and the mar- ginal folds brought into apposition, so as completely to close the aperture and prevent any reflux into the ileum, while at the same time no hindrance is offered to the passage of additional matters from thence into the great intestine. Each segment of the valve consists of two layers of mucous membrane, continuous with each other along the free margin, and including between them, besides the submucous areolar tissue, a number of muscular fibres, con- tinued from the circular fibres of the ileum and from those of the large intes- tine also. The longitudinal muscular fibres, and the peritoneal coat take no part in the formation of the valve, but are stretched across it uninterruptedly from one intestine to the other. The ascending colon situated in the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions commencing at the cnecum opposite to the ileo-cjBcal valve, ascends vertically to the under surface of the liver, near the gall-bladder, where it proceeds forwards and then turns abruptly to the left, forming what is named the hepatic flexure of the colon. The ascending colon is smaller than the csecum, but larger than the transverse colon. It is overlaid in front by some convolutions of the ileum, and is bound down firmly by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and its sides, and generally leaves an interval in which its posterior surface is connected by areolar tissue with the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum muscle, and with the front of the right kidney. In some cases, however, the peritoneum passes nearly round it, and forms a distinct though very short right meso-colon. The transverse colon passes across from the right hypochondrium, through the upper part of the umbilical region, into the left hypochondrium. Sometimes it is found as low as the umbilicus or even lower. At each extremity it is situated deeply towards the back part of the abdominal cavity, but in the middle it curves forwards, and lies close to the anterior wall of the abdomen. Hence it describes an arch, the concavity of which is