1016 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ARTERIES. sionally this muscle crosses the thigh so directly, that it must be drawn con- siderably outwards in order to reach the artery [plate 74, fig. 4]. To the exact point at which the sheath of the vessels, and even the fascia should be Fig. 702.—Superficial Dissection op the Femoral Vessels, with tueir smaller Branches in the Right Groin (from R. Quain). \ a, the integument of tbe abdomen ; h, the superficial abdominal fascia; b', the part descending on the spermatic cord ; c, c, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle ; (/, the same near the external abdominal ring ; c", the inner pillar of the ring ; d, the iliac part of the fascia lata ; d\ the pubic part ; e, e, the sheath of the femoral vessels laid open, the upper letter is immediately over the crural aperture ; e', placed on the sartorius muscle partially exposed, points to the margin of the saphenic opening; 1, femoral artery, having the femoral vein 2, to its inner side, and tbe septum of the sheath shown between the two vessels ; 3, the principal saphenous vein ; 3', its anterior branch ; 4, the superficial circumflex iliac vein and arterial branches to the glands of the groin ; 5, the superficial epigastric vein ; 6, the external pudic arteries and veins ; 7 to 8, some of the lower inguinal glands re- ceiving twigs from the vessels ; 9, internal, 10, middle, and 11, external cutaneous nerves. cut through, the pulsation of the artery will guide the operator. A small nerve may present itself in this part of the operation. The immediate invest- ment of the artery should be opened to the smallest possible extent, and the knife or other instrument should be sparingly used at this stage of the ope- ration ; the object being to disturb the artery from its connections, including its nutrient vessels (vasa vasorum), as little as possible, and likewise to avoid wounding any of the small muscular branches which spring from most arteries at irregular intervals. The division of an artery of the size of those last referred to at a distance from the source from which it springs is of little importance. It contracts, and soon ceases to bleed. But when it is divided close to the trunk, blood issues from it as it would if an opening equal in size to the calibre of the little branch were made in the trunk itself. In order to avoid injuring the vein, which is separated from the artery only by a thin partition of areolar tissue, the point of the aneurism needle, which conveys the ligature, is to be kept close to the artery. Other veins of occasional occurrence may render increased care necessary, for example, those small branches which cross the artery or course along its surface ; or it may be a larger vein—a division of the femoral veia when it is double, or the deep femoral vein when the ligature is applied a little higher than usual [plate 7 5]. To reach the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, the depth of the vessel being considerable, the incision through the integuments must be pro- portionally long. As the sartorius is directly over the vessel, the opera- Fig. 702. /