920 THK URINARY ORGANS. lying chiefly on the upper part of the pericardium, and presenting under the micro- scope a distinct tubulo-vesicular structure filled with polygonal cells ; at the twelfth week the thymus is broad, and its surface is entirely covered Avith lobules; it then increases rapidly until birth, but not with uniform rapidity, for it grows especially during the seventh, eighth, and ninth months of intra uterine existence. After birth, the thymus, as already stated, continues to grow to near the end of the second year. According to the observations of Haugstedt and Simon upon the weight of this organ in young animals, it appears for a short time after birth to increase not merely absolutely, but even faster than the rest of the system, and during the next period only to keep pace with the increase of the body. After the second year it ceases to grow, and becomes gradually converted by the eighth or twelfth year into a fatty mass. In this condition the corpuscles of the thymus disappear, forming, according to Simon's opinion, the nuclei of cells which become developed into the cells of adipose tissue. At puberty the thymus is generally reduced to a mere vestige which has entirely lost its original structure, and consists of brownish tissue occupying the upper part of the anterior mediastinum. Occasionally it is still found in good condition at the twentieth year: but generally only traces of it remain at that time, and these are rarely discoverable beyond the twenty-fifth or thirtieth year. The thymus gland presents no difference in the two sexes. It exists, according to Simon, in all animals breathing by lungs, and is persistent in those which hybernate, though only as a mass of fat. THE URINAUY ORGANS. The urinary organs consist of the 'kidneys, the glandular orgaus by which the urine is secreted, aud of the ureters, bladder, and urethra, which are the organs of its excretion and evacuation. As being locally connected, the supra-renal capsules are usually described along with these organs, though they have no relation, as far as is known, to the secretion of urine. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys, two in number, are deeply seated in the lumbar region, lying one on each side of the vertebral column, at the back part of the abdominal cavity, and behind the peritoneum. They are situated on a level with the last dorsal and the two or three upper lumbar vertebrae, the right kidney, however, being placed a little lower down than the left, probably in consequence of the vicinity of the large right lobe of the liver. They are maintained in this position by their vessels, and also by a quantity of sur- rounding loose areolar tissue, which usually contains much dense fat (tunica adiposa). The size of the kidneys varies in different instances. Ordinarily, they measure about four inches in length, two and a half inches in breadth, and an inch and a quarter or more in thickness. The left kidney is usually of a longer and thinner shape, whilst the right is shorter and wider. Weight.—The average weight of the kidney is usually stated to be about 4i oz. in the male, and somewhat less in the female. According to Clendinning, the two kid- neys of the male weigh on an average 94 oz., and those of the female 9 oz. The estimate of Rayer is 4i oz. for each organ in the male, and 3| oz. in the other sex. Reid's observations (made on sixty-five males and twenty-eight females, between the ages of twenty-five and fifty-five) would indicate a higher average weight, viz., rather more than 6| oz. in the former, and not quite 5 oz. in the latter,—the difference between the two sexes being therefore upwards of half an ounce. The prevalent weights of the kidney, as deduced from the tables of Reid, are, in the adult male (160 observations) from 4^ oz. to 6 oz., and in the adult female (74 observations) from 4 oz. to 54 oz. The tables more recently published by Peacock give still higher average results as to the weight of these organs. The two kidneys are seldom of equal