970 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. contact at one part, are intimately connected at another ; so that the division of the mass into lobules varies greatly in its extent, and hence the <]ifferent estimates of the number of the lobules by different anatomists. The walls of the tubuli seminiferi are composed of connective tissue, lined with a basement membrane, and sometimes presenting an epithelium, com- posed of nucleated granular corpuscles, but, in the period of activity, filled with cells of different sizes, without regular arrangement or any lumen in the interior. In aged subjects there is much fatty matter accumulated in these cells, so that the tubes acquire a yellower colour than in early life. The walls of the tubes are sufficiently strong to bear the forcible injection of mercury, which has been commonly employed for their investigation. The mode in which the tubes commence appears to be twofold—viz., by free closed extremities, hid within the lobules, but more frequently by ana- stomotic arches or loops. After an exceedingly tortuous course, they at length, in approaching the corpus Higlimorianum, lose in a great measure the convoluted disposition, becomiug at first slightly flexuous and then nearly straight. The separate tubuli of each lobe, and then those of adjoin- ing lobes, unite together into larger tubes, which enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum and, being placed amongst the branches of the bloodvessels, form the next order of the seminal ducts. These, which, from their comparatively straight course, are named tuhuli recti or vasa recta, are upwards of twenty in number, and are from ijoth to ^J^th of an inch in diameter. They pass upwards and backwards through the fibrous tissue, as already stated, and end in a close network of tubes, named by Haller the rete vasculosum testis, which lies in the substance of the corpus Highmorianum, along the back part of the testicle, but in front of the primary subdivisions of the spermatic blood-vessels before these enter the gland. The tubes composing the rete have very thin walls. According to Kolliker, indeed, they have none, but are mere channels in the fibrous membrane, lined with squamous epithelium. They conduct the secretion to the upper end of the testis, where they open into the vasa effereutia. Fig. 678. Fig. 678. —Ducts of the Testicle injected with Mercury (from Haller). ttj body of the testicle ; h, tubuli in the interior of the gland ; c, rete vasculosum ; d, vasa eiferentia terminating in the coni vasculosi ; e, f, g, convoluted canal of the epididymis ; h, vas deferens ascending from the globus minor of the epididymis. The vasa efferentia are from twelve to fifteen, or sometimes twenty in number; they perforate the tunica albuginea at the upper end of the posterior border of the testicle, beneath the globus major of the epididy- mis, of which they may be said to form a part, and in the convoluted canal of which they ultimately terminate. On emerging from the testis, these vasa efierentia are straight, but, becoming more and more convoluted as they proceed towards the epididymis, they form a series of small conical masses, the bases of which are turned in the same direction, and which are named coni vasculosi. Their walls contain, besides fibrous tissue, longitudinal and transverse muscular fibres. The largest of the cones is about eight lines