615 AUDITORY NERVE.—EIGHTH PAIR. (b) The supramaxillary branch, sometimes double, gives an offset over the side of the maxilla to the angle of the mouth, and is then directed inwards, beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth, to the muscles and integument between the lip and chin; it joins with the labial branch of the lower dental nerve. (c) The inframaxillary branches (r. subcutanei colli), perforate the deep cervical fascia, and/ placed beneath the platysma muscle, form arches across the side of the neck as low as the hyoid bone. Some branches join the superficial cervical nerve beneath the platysma, others enter that muscle, and a few perforate it to end in the integument. Summary.—The facial nerve is the motor nerve of the face. It is distributed to most of the muscles of the ear, and to the muscles of the scalp ; to those of the mouth, nose and eyelids ; and to the cutaneous muscle of the neck (platysma). It likewise supplies branches to the integu- ment of the ear, to that of the side and back of the head, as well as to that of the face and the upper part of the neck. This nerve is connected freely with the three divisions of the fifth nerve, and with the submaxillary and spheno-palatine ganglia ; with the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves ; with the auditory, and with partj of the sympathetic and the spinal nerves. AUDITORY NERVE. The auditory nerve, or portio mollis of the seventh pair, is the special nerve of the organ of hearing, and is distributed exclusively to the internal ear. As the auditory nerve is inclined outwards from its connection with the medulla oblongata to gain the internal auditory meatus, it is in contact with the facial nerve, being only separated from it in part by a small artery destined for the internal ear. Within the meatus the two nerves are con- nected to each other by one or two small filaments. Finally the auditory nerve bifurcates in the meatus : one division, piercing the anterior part of the cribriform lamina, is distributed to the cochlea ; the other, piercing the posterior half of the lamina, enters the vestibule of the internal ear. The distribution of these branches will be described with the ear. EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. The eighth pair is composed of three distinct nerves—the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal-accessory, which leave the skull through the anterior and inner division of the foramen lacerum posticum, to the inner side and in front of the internal jugular vein. Two of these nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric, are attached to the medulla oblongata in the same line, and resemble one another somewhat in their distribution, for both are distributed to the first part of the alimentary canal. The other, the spinal-accessory, takes its origin chiefly from the spinal cord, and is mainly distributed to muscles ; but it gives fibres to the first two nerves by its communicating branch. GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is destined, as the name implies, for the tongue and pharynx. Directed outwards from its place of origin over the flocculus to the foramen jugulare, it leaves the skull with the pneumo-gastric and spinal-accessory nerves, but in a separate tube of dura mater. In passing through the foramen, somewhat in front of the others, this nerve is contained in a groove, or in a canal in the lower border of the petrous