DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. 739 as a septum projecting inwards from the forepart of the choroid coat, between the lens and the cornea. Fig. 493. Fig. 493.—Vertical Longitudinal Section OP THE Eye of an Embryo Calf (from Kolliker). £i 1 c, the cornea ; cc, conjunctiva of the cornea; I, the lens ; v, vitreous humour; r, retina ; p, pigment layer of the choroid ; sc, com- mencement of the sclerotic and choroid coats ; m, superior and inferior recti muscles ; pa, folds of integument forming the commence- ment of the upper and lower eyelids. The crystalline lens in the foetus is sur- rounded by a highly vascular tunic^ supplied by a branch of the central artery of the retina, which passes forwards in the axis of the globe, and breaks up at the back of the lens into a brush of rapidly subdividing branches. The forepart of this tunic, ad- herent to the pupillary margin of the iris, forms the pupillary membrane by which the aperture of the pupil is closed. The whole tunic, however, together with the artery which supplies it, becomes atrophied, and is lost sight of before birth in the human subject, although in some animals it remains for a few days after. According to Kolliker, the anterior chamber is formed Fig. 494. Fig. 494.—Bloodvessels of the Cap- SULO-PUPILLARY MeMBRANE OF A New-Born Kitten, magnified (from Kolliker). The drawing is taken from a prepara- tion injected by Tiersch, and shows in the central part the convergence of the network of vessels in the pupillary membrane. only a short time before birth by the intervention of the aqueous humour between the iris and cornea. The eyelids make their appearance as folds of integument, subsequent to the formation of the globe. When they have met ^together in front of the eye their edges become closely glued together; and they again open before birth. The lachrymal canal may be regarded as a persistently open part of the fissure between the lateral frontal process and maxillary lobe of the embryo. (See p. 65, and fig. 56 B, 4, 6.) 3 c 2