644 THE BEACHIAL PLEXUS. The nerve of the suhdavius muscle, of small size, arises from the front of the cord which results from the union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is directed over the outer part of the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the subclavius muscle. This small nerve is commonly connected with the phrenic nerve in the neck or in the chest, by means of a slender filament. Branch to join the phrenic nerve.—This small and short branch is an offset from the fifth cervical nerve; it joins the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. POSTERIOR THORACIC NERVE. The posterior thoracic nerve (nerve of the serratus magnus, external respiratory of Bell) is formed in the substance of the middle scalenus muscle by two roots, one from the fifth and another from the sixth nerve, and reaches the surface of the scalenus lower than the nerve of the rhomboid muscles, with which it is often connected. It descends behind the brachial plexus on the outer surface of the serratus magnus, nearly to the lower border of that muscle, supplying it with numerous branches. SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE. The suprascapular nerve arises from the back of the cord formed by the union of the fifth and sixth nerves, and bends beneath the trapezius to the upper border of the scapula, where it passes between the muscles and the bone. Entering the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, through the supra- scapular notch (beneath the ligament which crosses the notch), the supra- scapular nerve supplies two branches to the supraspinatus, one near the upper, the other near the lower part of the muscle ; and it then descends through the great scapular notch into the lower fossa, where it ends in the infraspinatus muscle. In the upper fossa of the scapula, a slender articular filament is given to the shoulder-joint, and in the lower fossa other twigs of the nerve enter the same joint and the substance of the scapula. BRANCHES BELOW THE CLAVICLE. Origin of nerves from the 'plexus. —The several nerves now to be described are derived from the three great cords of the plexus in the following order. From the upper or outer cord,—the external of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous, and the outer root of the median. From the lower or inner cord,—the inner of the two anterior thoracic, the nerve of Wrisberg, the internal cutaneous, the ulnar, and the inner root of the median. From the posterior cord,—the subscapular nerves, the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral. The nerves traced to the spinal nerves.—If the fasciculi of which the principal nerves are composed be followed through the plexus, they may be traced to those of the spinal nerves which in the subjoined table are named along with each trunk. The higher numbers refer to the cervical nerves, the unit to the dorsal nerve :— Subscapular from Circumflex Musculo-spiral . External cutaneous Median 5.6.7.8. 5.6.7. 5.6.7.8.1. Ulnar .... Internal cutaneous Small internal cutaneous outer 5 Anterior thoracic 1. or 7.8.1, a. 7. inner 8.1 The outline in Eig. 423, taken from a dissection, represents one of the most common arrangements.