794 THE TEETH period the papillae grow rapidly, they begin to show peculiarities of form, and project from the mouths of the follicles. Soou, however, the follicles become deeper, so as to hide the papillae, which now assume a shape corresponding with that of the crowns of the future teeth. Small laminae or opercula of membrane are then developed from the sides of each follicle, their number and position being regulated, it is said, by the form of the cutting edges and tubercles of the coming teeth: the incisor follicles having two laminae, one external and one internal; the canine, three, of which two are internal; and the molars, four or five each.—The lips of the dental groove, as well as the opercula, now begin to cohere over the follicles from behind forwards, the posterior lip being very much thickened; the groove itself is thus Fig. 552. Fig. 552.—Enlarged View op the Upper and Lower Dental Arches of a F(etds op about Fourteen Weeks. This specimen shows the follicular stage of develop- ment of all the milk teeth as described by Groodsir ; in each follicle the papilla is seen projecting ; but this exposure of the papillae and the cavity of the follicles probably arises from the accidental loss of the epithe- lial covering. gradually obliterated, the follicles are con- verted into closed sacs, and the saccular stage of the milk-teeth is thus completed about the end of the fifteenth week. Certain lunated depressions, which are formed one behind each of the milk-follicles about the fourteenth week, escaj>e the general adhesion of the lips of the groove. From these depressions, as will be afterwards described, the sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth are subsequently developed. The first stages in the development of the teeth here described, the superficial origin and open condition of the dental sacs, and the free papillary commencement of the pulps, have been denied in recent years by Guillot, and by Eobin and Magitot, who assert that the sacs with their contents make their first appearance in the submucous tissue, and are from the first closed sacs (Guillot in Annales des Sciences Naturelles, vol. ix., 1859; Robin and Magitot in Journal de la Physiologic, 1860, vol. iii., pp. 130 and 663). The observations of Kblliker, however, seem to furnish a clue to the explanation of what has been seen by these authors, at the same time that they con- firm, in its most important features, Goodsir's mode of viewing the phenomena. In the foetal Iamb and calf, the first step in the formation of the tooth-germ, observed by Kolliker, consists in a depression of a part of the deepest layer of the epithelium into the subjacent mucous membrane. This depression, which, in common with Huxley, he regards as the commencement of the foetal structure known as the enamel organ, to be afterwards described, widens subsequently, so as to become flask-shaped, remaining connected with the deep surface of the epithelium by a narrow neck. In the next stage the dental papilla rising from the surface of the mucous membrane, projects into, or indents the deepest side of the epithelial process or future enamel organ, and the dental sac is formed at a somewhat later period in the surrounding substance of the mucous membrane. In these animals, therefore, the epithelium of the edge of the jaw covers in completely the enamel germ or primary tooth-follicle. In man, Kolliker was unable to discover a similar arrangement, but found matters very much in the disposition described by Goodsir ; that is, the follicles open, situated in a dental groove of the jaw, and containing at their deepest part the dental papillae developed from the mucous membrane. But he conceives it not improbable that in Goodsir's specimens, as well as in his own, the whole of the epithelium had been abraded, and that the follicles and papillae were thus unnaturally opened to the surface.