THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 516 plicated, so as to give the lad anted appearance to a section. This capsule is, moreover, surrounded with white matter externally, and through its open part white fibres pass into or issue from its interior, and connect it with other parts of the brain. The external fibres of the anterior columns of the cord, which at the decussation of the pyramids are thrown outwards, are con- tinued upwards, on the surface of the medulla oblongata, and then pass partly on the outside of and partly beneath the olivary bodies—being joined in their farther progress by the fibres issuing from the olivary nucleus. To these fibres the term olivary fasciculus has been applied. The restiform bodies, placed behind and to the outer side of the olivary bodies, are two lateral rounded eminences or columns directly continuous with the posterior, and with part of the antero-lateral columns of the cord ; they diverge slightly as they ascend, and thus occasion the greater width of the Fig. 350. Fig. 350.—View op the Posterior Surface of THE Pons Varolii, Corpora Qdadrigemina, AND Medulla Oblongata. The peduncles of the cerebellum are cut short at the side, a, a, the upper pair of corpora quadri- gemina ; b, h, the inferior ; /, /, superior peduncles of the cerebellum; c, eminence connected with the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve ; e, that of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; i, that of the vagus nerve ; d, d, restiform bodies; p, p, posterior pyramids ; v, v, groove in the middle of the fourth ventricle ; v, calamus scriptorius, and eminence connected with the spinal accessory nerve ; 7, 7, roots of the auditory nerves. (See also Fig. 359, at p. 525.) medulla at its upper part. Each of them passes into the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, and constitutes its inferior peduncle. At first they are in contact with the small tracts of the medulla, named the posterior pyramids ; but higher up they become free and pro- minent, and assist in forming the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle. There is a considerable portion of grey matter in their interior. By far the larger portion of the white substance of the restiform body consists of longitudinal fibres, which include all those belonging to the posterior column of the cord except the fasciculus gracilis, some derived from the lateral column, and also a small band from the anterior column. This last-named band runs obliquely below the olivary body and, as was shown by Solly, connects the anterior column with the cerebellum. The part of the posterior column of the cord which belongs to the resti- form body of the medulla, is named fasciculus cuneatus. The posterior pyramids (fasciculi graciles) of the medulla oblongata, the smallest of the four pairs of columns into which it is divided, are situated one on either side of the posterior median fissure. They consist entirely of white fibres, and are continuous with the posterior slender tracts of the cord. They increase in size as they ascend till they reach the point where the medulla opens out to form the floor of the fourth ventricle ; and there, diverging from one another, they have the appearance of tapering and become closely applied to the restiform bodies. Their fibres quit these bodies, however, and pass up to the cerebrum.