STRUCTURE OF THE ENAMEL. 789 Another kind of irregularity in the structure of the dentine gives rise to the granular layer of Purkinje ; the peculiarity of which consists in the presence of a number of minute cell-like cavities, which break up the uniformity of the matrix, and by branches anastomose one with another and receive terminations of dental tubuli. They are found principally in a layer beneath the cement, and also beneath the enamel. The circum- stance of their forming connections with the tubules points to a diflference in nature between these cavities and the much larger interglobular spaces. The surface of the dentine where it is in con- tact with the enamel is marked by undulating grooves and ridges, and also by numerous minute hexagonal depressions, to which the microscopic fibres of the enamel are accurately adapted. B. The enamel is that hard white covering which encrusts and protects the exposed portion or crown of a tooth. It is the hardest of all the dental tissues, but it is gradually worn down by protracted use. It is thickest on the grinding surface and cutting edges of the teeth, and be- comes gradually thinner towards the neck, where it ceases. Its extent and thickness are readily Fig. 548.—Thin Section of the Enamel and a Part OF THE Dentine (from Kolliker). 2^ a, cuticnlar pellicle of the enamel; 6, enamel fibres or columns with fissures between them and cross striae ; c, larger cavities in the enamel communicating with the extremities of some of the tubuli (d), seen on charring the tooth, by which the dentine becomes blackened, whilst the enamel, owing to the very small quantity of animal matter in its composition, remains white. According to Bibra it contains of earthy constituents 96'5 per cent., viz. phosphate of lime with traces of fluoride of calcium 89 "S, carbonate of lime 4*4, phosphate of magnesia and other salts 1'3 ; and has only 3*5 per cent, of animal matter. Berzelius, however, gives the proportion of carbonate of lime as 8, and of animal matter as only 2 per cent. The enamel is made up entirely of very hard and dense microscopic fibres or prisms, composed almost wholly of earthy matter, arranged closely to- gether, side by side, and set by one extremity upon the subjacent surface of the dentine. On the summit of the coronal portion of the tooth these enamel fibres are directed vertically, but on the sides they are nearly hori- zontal. As seen in a section they are disposed in gently waving lines, parallel with each other, but not so regular as the curvatures of the tubuli of the dentine, with which they have no agreement. The concurrence of these parallel curvatures produces, as in the case of the dentine, an appear- ance of concentric undulations in the enamel, which may be seen with a lens of low power. A series of concentric lines is likewise to be seen crossing the enamel fibres, as the contour lines cross the dentine : these are termed coloured lines from their brown appearance, but they seem rather to depend on lamination than on pigmentary deposit. Minute fissures not unfrequently exist in the deep part of the enamel, which run between Fig. 548.