THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 646 major muscle above the long head of the triceps, and separates into an upper and a lower branch, which are distributed to the deltoid and teres minor muscles, the integument of the shoulder, and the shoulder joint. a. The upper portion winds round the upper part of the humerus, extending to the anterior border of*' the deltoid muscle, to which it is distributed. One or two cutaneous filaments, penetrating between the muscular fibres, are bent downwards, and supply the integument over the lower part of the muscle. h. The lower hrancli supplies offsets to the back part of the deltoid, and furnishes the nerve to the teres minor, which is remarkable in presenting a gangliform enlarge- ment. It then turns round the posterior border of the deltoid below the middle, and ramifies in the integument over the lower two-thirds of that muscle, one branch extending to the integument over the long head of the triceps muscle. c. An articular filament for the shoulder-joint arises near the commencement of the nerve, and enters the capsular ligament below the subscapular muscle. INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. At its origin from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, this nerve is placed on the inner side of the axillary artery. It becomes cutaneous about the middle of the arm, and after perforating the fascia, or, in some cases, before doing so, is divided into two parts; one destined for the anterior, the other for the posterior surface of the forearm. a. The anterior branch crosses at the bend of the elbow behind (in some cases over) the median basilic vein, and distributes filaments in front of the forearm, as far as the wrist; one of these is, in some instances, joined with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. 6. The posterior branch inclines obliquely downwards at the inner side of the basilic vein, and winding to the back of the forearm, over the prominence of the internal condyle of the humerus, extends somewhat below the middle of the forearm. Above the elbow this branch is connected with the smaller internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and afterwards communicates with the outer portion of the internal cutaneous, and, according to Swan, with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. c. A branch to the integument of the arm pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches to, or nearly to the elbow, distributing filaments outwards over the biceps muscle. This branch is often connected with the intercosto-humeral nerve. SMALL INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. The smaller internal cutaneous nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, destined for the supply of the integument of the lower half of the upper arm on the inner and posterior aspect, commonly arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus in union with the larger internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves. In the axilla it lies close to the axillary vein, but it soon appears on the inner side of that vessel, and communicates with the intercosto- humeral nerve. It then descends along the inner side of the brachial vessels to about the middle of the arm, where it pierces the fascia, and its filaments are thence continued to the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon. Branches.—In the lower third of the arm, branches of this small nerve are directed almost horizontally to the integument on the posterior aspect; and the nerve ends at the elbow by dividing into several filaments, some of which are directed forwards over the inner condyle of the humerus, while others are prolonged downwards behind the olecranon. Connection with the intercosto-humeral nerve.—This connection presents much variety in diflferent cases :—in some, there are two or more intercommunications, form- ing a kind of plexus on the posterior boundary of the axillary space; in others, the