FORM OF THE CEREBELLUM. 523 alone exists ; and in most mammals it forms a central lobe very distinct from the lateral portions. The hemispheres are separated behind by a deep notch. Superiorly, the median portion or upper vermiform process, though slightly elevated, is not marked off from the hemispheres, so that the general surface of the organ, which is here inclined and flattened on either side, is uninterrupted. Below, the hemispheres are convex, and are separated by a deep fossa, named the vallecula, which is continuous with the notch behind, and in which the inferior vermiform process lies concealed in a great measure by the sur- rounding parts. Into this hollow the medidla oblongata is received in front, and the falx cerebelli behind. Fig. 355. Fig. 355.—Inferior Sdrface op the Cerebellum with the Pons Varolii and Medulla Oblongata (from Sappey after Hiisclifeld and Leveille). | 1, placed in the notch between the cerebellar hemispheres, is below the inferior vermiform process ; 2, 2, median depression or vallecula; 3, 3, 3, the biventral, slender, and posterior infeinor lobules of the hemisphere ; 4, the amygdala ; 5, flocculus or sub- peduncular lobule ; 6, pons Varolii ; 7, its median groove ; 8, middle peduncle of the cerebellum ; 9, medulla oblongata ; 10, 11, anterior part of the great horizontal fissure ; 12, 13, smaller and greater roots of the fifth pair of nerves; 14, sixth pair ; 15, facial nerve; 16, pars intermedia; 17, auditory nerve; 18, glosso-pharyngeal; 19, pneumo- gastric ; 20, spinal accessory ; 21, hypoglossal nerve. The cerebellum at the surface and for some depth consists of numerous nearly parallel laminae or folia, which are composed of grey and white matter, and might be compared with the gyri of the cerebrum, but are smaller and without convolution. These lamin?e are separated by slightly- curved grooves or sulci of different depths. One principal fissure, or sulcus, named the great horizontal fissure, divides the cerebellum into an upper and a lower portion. It begins in front at the entrance of the middle peduncles, and passes horizontally backwards round the outer border of the hemispheres. From this primary fissure, numerous others proceed on both the upper and under surface, forming nearly parallel curves, having their concavities turned forwards, and separating the folia from each other. All these furrows do not go entirely round the hemisphere, for many of them coalesce with one another ; and some of the smaller furrows have even an oblique course between the others. Moreover, on opening the M M 2