992 FEMALE OKGANS OF GEXEEATIOX. bottom of a sort of fissure leading from tliat fringe which is attached to the ovary. It is by this orifice that an ovum is received at the time of its liberation from the ovary, and is thence conveyed along the tube to its uterine extremity, which opens into the womb by a very minute orifice, admitting only a fine bristle, and named ostium uterinum. The part of the canal which is near the uterus is also very fine, but it becomes gradually larger towards its abdominal orifice, and there it is again some- what contracted : hence, the term isthmus given by Henle to the uterine half, and ampulla to the outer half of the Fallopian tube. Beneath the external or peritoneal coat the walls of the tube contain, besides areolar tissue, plain muscular fibres like those of the uterus, arranged in an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer. The mucous membrane lining the tubes is thrown into longitudinal fjlicse, which are broad and numerous in the wider part of the tube, and in the narrower part are broken np into very numerous arborescent processes : it is con- tinuous, on the one hand, with the lining membrane of the uterus, and at the outer end of the tube with the peritoneum ; presenting an example of the direct continuity of a mucous and serous membrane, and making the peritoneal cavity in the female an exception to the ordinary rule of serous cavities, i. e. of being perfectly closed. The epithelium in the interior of the Fallopian tube is, like that of the uterus, columnar and ciliated ; the inner surface of the fimbriae is also provided with cilia, and Henle has even detected ciliated epithelium on their outer or serous surface, but it here soon passes into the scaly epithelium of the peritoneal membrane. Vessels and nerves of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes.—The ovaries are supplied by the ovarian arteries, analogous to the spermaticin the male, which anastomose freely by an internal branch with the termination of the uterine arteries. Sometimes this anasto- motic branch is so large that the ovary seems to be supplied almost entirely by the uterine artery. The ovarian artery always sends numerous branches to the Fallopian tube. The smaller arteries penetrate the ovary along its attached border, pierce the proper coat, and run in flexuous parallel lines through its substance. The Vf'ins cor- respond, and the ovarian veins form a plexus near the ovary named the pampiniform plexus. The nerves are derived from the spermatic or ovarian plexus; and also from one of the uterine nerves, which invariably send an offset to the Fallopian tube. The parovarium (Kobelt), or Organ of Rosenmiiller, is a structure which can usually be brought plainly into view by holding against the light the fold of peritoneum between the ovary and Fallopian tube. It con- sists of a group of scattered tubules lying transversely between the Fallo- pian tube and ovary, lined with epithelium, but having no orifice. The tubules converge, but remain separate at their ovarian end, and at the other are more or less distinctly united by a longitudinal tube. The parovarium consists of a few tubules formed in connection with the Wolffian body, which partaking in the growth of the surrounding textures have remained per- sistent during life. The dUct which unites them is sometimes of consider- able size, and is prolonged for some distance downwards, in the broad liga- ment. Its more developed form in some animals constitutes the duct of Gaertner, afterwards referred to as arising from a persistent condition of the Wolflaan duct. DEVELOPMENT OF THE URINARY ORGANS. The Wolffian Bodies and their Excretory ducts.—The development of the genito- urinary organs in reptiles, birds, and mammalia, including man, is preceded by the formation of two ternx>orarij glands, named after their discoverer, C. F. "Wolff, the