641 DEEP CERVICAL NERVES.—BEACHIAL PLEXUS. The nerve of the left side is a little longer than that of the right, in conse- quence of the oblique position of the pericardium round which it winds, and also because of the diaphragm being lower on this than on the opposite side. This nerve crosses in front of the arch of the aorta and the pul- monary artery before reaching the pericardium. Besides the terminal branches supplied to the diaphragm, each phrenic nerve gives filaments to the pleura and pericai'dium ; and receives sometimes an oflfset from the union of the descendens noni with the cervical nerves. Swan notices this union as occurring only on the left side, Luschka describes twigs from the lower part of the nerve to the peritoneum, the inferior cava, and the right auricle of the heart. One or two filaments of the nerve of the riglit side join in a small ganglion with branches to the diaphragm which are derived from the solar plexus of the sympa- thetic ; and from the ganglion twigs are given to the suprarenal capsule, the hepatic plexus, and the lower vena cava. On the left side there is a junction between the phrenic and the sympathetic nerves near the oesophageal and aortic openings in the diaphragm, but without the appearance of a ganglion. IV. Deep Branches : External Series. Muscular branches.—The sterno-mastoid receives a branch from the second cervical nerve. Two branches proceed from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapulae ; and from the third and fourth cervical nerves, as they leave the spinal canal, branches are given to the middle scalenus muscle. Further, the trapezius has branches prolonged to it ; and thus, like the sterno-mastoid, this muscle receives nerves from both the spinal accessory and the cervical plexus. Connection with the spinal accessory nerve.—In the substance of the sterno- mastoid muscle, this nerve is connected with the branches of the cervical plexus furnished to that muscle. It is also connected with the branches distributed to the trapezius—the union between the nerves being beneath the muscle, and having the appearance of a plexus ; and with another branch of the cervical plexus in the interval between the two muscles. Summary of the cervical plexus. —From the cervical j)lexus are distributed cutaneous nerves to the back of the head, to part of the ear and face, to the anterior half of the neck, and to the upper part of the trunk. The muscles supplied with nerves from the plexus are the sterno-mastoid, the platysma, and the lower hyoid muscles in part ; the anterior recti, the levator anguli scapulse, the trapezius, the scalenus medius, aud the diaphragm. By means of its branches the plexus communicates with the pneumo-gastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. This large plexus, from which the nerves of the upper limb are supplied, is formed by the union of the anterior trunks of the four lower cervical and first dorsal nerves ; and it further receives a fasciculus from the lowest of the nerves (fourth), which goes to form the cervical plexus. The plexus extends from the lower part of the neck to the axillary space, and termi- nates opposite the coracoid process of the scapula in large nerves for the supply of the Hmb, The manner in which the nerves are disposed in the plexus is liable to some variation, but the following may be regarded as the arrangement most frequently met with. The fifth and sixth cervical are joined at the outer border of the scalenus, and a little farther out receive the seventh nerve,