581 HEMISPHERES.—CORPUS CALLOSUM. comparatively slow degrees; but towards the seventh and eighth months they are developed with great rapidity, and at the beginning of the last month of intra-uterine life, all the principal ones are marked out. The Sylvian fissure, which afterwards separates the anterior from the middle lobe of each hemisphere, begins as a depression or cleft between them about the fourth month, and, after the great longitudinal, is the first of the fissures to make its appearance. It is followed by the fissure of Rolando, and the vertical fissure, and somewhat later by the internal fronto-parietal fissure. After this, the various sub- ordinate fissures dividing the convolutions gradually make their appearance. By the end of the third month the hemispheres have extended so far backwards as to cover the thalami; at the fourth, they reach the corpora quadrigemina; at the sixth, they cover those bodies and great part of the cerebellum, beyond which they project still further backwards by the end of the seventh month. During the growth of the hemisphere the aperture of the foramen of Monro is extended backwards; the arched margin of this opening is curved downwards at its extremities, and forms anteriorly the fornix, and posteriorly the corpus fimbriatum and hippocampus major; above the margin a part of the wall of each hemisphere comes into contact with its fellow, and in the lower part forms the septum lucidum, while above this the hemispheres are united by the development of the great commissure, the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum is described by Tiedemann as being first seen about the end of the third month, as a narrow vertical band, extending across between the forepart of the two hemispheres, and subsequently growing backwards. With this view the observations of Schmidt coincide. Reichert, however, maintains that the commissural structure seen at the forepart of the hemispheres is the anterior white commissure, and that the corpus callosum appears in its whole extent at once. The corpora, alhicantia at first form a single mass : so also do the anterior pillars of the fornix, which are distinguished before the posterior pillars. The posterior pillars are not seen until the fourth or fifth month. At that period the hippocampus minor is also discernible. Fig. 396,—View of the Inner Fig, 396. Surface of the right half OF the Fcetal Brain of about SIX months (from Reichert). F, frontal lobe ; P, parietal ; 0, occipital; T, temporal ; I, olfactory bulb; II, right optic nerve; fp, fronto-parietal fis- sure ; ]}, vertical fissure ; p', in- ternal vertical fissure ; h, hippo- campal fissure ; g, gyrus forni- catus; c, c, corpus callosum; s, septum lucidum ; /, placed between the middle commissure and the foramen of Monro ; V, in the upper part of the third ventricle immediately below the velum interpositum and for- nix ; v', in the back part of the third ventricle below the pineal gland, and pointing by a line to the aqueduct of Sylvius ; v", in the lower part of the thiri ventricle above the infundibulum ; r, recessus pinealis passing backwards from the tela choroidea; p v, pons Varolii; Ce, cerebellum. MEMBRANES OF THE ENCEPHALON. It is remarked by Bischoff, that the pia mater and arachnoid are formed by the separation of the outer layer of the primitive cephalic mass; and thus, that the pia mater does not send inwards processes into the fissures or sulci, nor into the ventri- cular cavities; but that every part of this vascular membrane, including the choroid plexuses and velum interpositum, is formed in its proper position in connection ■with the nervous matter. The dura mater, on the other hand, is developed from the inner surface of the dorsal plates.