THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 747 The anterior extremity of the tympanum is narrowed by the gradual descent of the roof, and is continued into the Eustachian orifice. The lower compartment of this orifice, lined with mucous membrane, forms the commencement of the Eustachian tube ; the upper compartment, about half an inch long, lodges the tensor tympani muscle, and opens into the tympanum immediately in front of the fenestra ovalis, surrounded by the expanded and everted end of the cochleariform process, which separates it from the lower compartment. Fig. 502. Fig. 502.—Antero-posteriok Section op the Temporal Bone, showing the Inner Wall of the Tympanum, with the Eustachian Tube and Small Bones in the Recent State (from Arnold). 1, styloid process ; 2, mastoid process ; 3, upper part of the petrous bone ; 4, pharyn- geal end of the Eustachian tube ; 5, its cartilage ; 6, its mucous surface ; 7, carotid canal; 8, fenestra rotunda; 9, malleus; 10, incus; 11, stapes; 12, pyramid and stapedius muscle ; above 9, and behind 10, the suspensory ligaments of the malleus and incus are also seen. The Eiistachian tube is a canal, formed partly of bone, partly of cartilage and membrane, which leads from the cavity of the tympanum to the upper part of the pharynx. From the tympanum it is directed forwards and inwards, with a little inclination downwards ; and its entire length is about an inch and a half. The osseous division of the Eustachian tube, already described in the Osteology, is placed in the angle of junction of the petrous portion of the temporal bone with the squamous portion. The anterior part of the tube is formed of a triangular piece of cartilage, the edges of which are slightly curled round towards each other, leaving an interval at the under side, in which the canal is completed by dense but pliable fibrous membrane. Narrow behind, the tube gradually expands till it becomes wide and trumpet-shaped in front; and the anterior part is compressed from side to side, and is fixed to the inner pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The anterior opening is oval in form, and is placed obliquely at the side and upper part of the pharynx, into which its prominent margin projects behind the lower meatus of the nose, and above the level of the hard palate. Through this aperture the mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with that which lines the tympanum, and under certain conditions air passes into and out of that cavity.