GANGLIATED SYMPATHETIC CORDS. front of the vertebral column, and extend from the base of the skull to the coccyx. Superiorly they are connected with plex- uses which enter the cranial cavity, while inferiorly they converge on the sacrum, and terminate in a single ganglion on the coccyx. The several portions of the cords are distinguished as cervical, dorsal, lum- bar, and sacral, and in each of these parts the ganglia are equal in number, or nearly so, to the vertebrae on which they lie, except in the neck, where there are only three. Fig. 451.—Diagrammatic Outline op the Sym- pathetic Cord op one side in connection with the Spinal Nerves. The full description of this figure will be found at p. 629. On the right side the following letters in- dicate parts of the sympathetic nerves ; viz., a, the superior cervical ganglion, communi- cating with, the upper cervical spinal nei'ves and continued below into the great sympathetic cord ; h, the middle cervical ganglion ; c, d, the lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal; d', the eleventh dorsal ganglion ; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglia the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown ; I, the lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion; ss, the upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union with the spinal nerves are shown. Connection of the gangliated cords with the cerebrospinal system. —The ganglia are severally connected with the spinal nerves in their neighbourhood by means of short cords ; each connecting cord consisting of a white and a grey portion, the former of which may be considered as proceeding from the spinal nerve to the ganglion, the latter from the ganglion to the spinal nerve. At its upper end the gangliated cord communicates likewise with certain cranial nerves. The main cords interven- ing between the ganglia, like the smaller ones connecting the ganglia with the spinal nerves, are composed of a grey and white part, the white being continuous with the fibres of the spinal nerves prolonged to the ganglia. The great prevertebral plexuses comprise three large aggregations of nerves, or nerves and ganglia situated in front of the spine, and occupying respectively the thorax, the abdomen, and the pelvis. They are single and median, and are