1028 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HP:KXLE. their relative position results from the points at which they respectively pass through the ring, the former being upon the crista of the pubes, Fig. 709. Fig. 709.—A Direct Inguinal Hkr- NiA ON THE Left Side, covered BY the Conjoined Tendon of the Interal Oblique and Transverse Muscles. 1, aponeurosis of the external ob- lique ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle; 4, fascia trausversalis ; 5, spermatic cord ; G, the hernia. A small part of the epi- gastric artery is seen through an opening made in the transversalis fascia. ■while the latter drops over the outer pillar of the opening. The hernial sac is not, how- ever, in this case (as the sac of the external form of the disease is) in contact with the vessels of the cord. The invest- ments given from the fascia transversalis to those vessels and to the hernia respectively, are inter- posed. But the point at which the internal inguinal hernia passes through the Fig. 710. Fig. 710.—A Small Oblique Inguinal Hernia, and a Direct One on the Right Side. A little of the epigastric artery has been laid bare, by dividing the fascia transversalis immediately over it. 1, tendon of the external oblique ; 2, in- ternal oblique turned up ; 3, transver- salis ; 4, its tendon (the epigastric artery is shown below this number) ; 5, the spermatic cord (its vessels separated) ; 6, a bubonocele ; 7, direct hernia pro- truded beneath the conjoined tendon of the two deeper muscles, and covered by an elongation from the fascia trans- versalis. triangular space above described, as marked on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, is subject to some variation. Instead of pushing directly through the ex- ternal abdominal ring, (the most frequent position), the hernia occasionally enters the inguinal canal nearer to the epigastric artery, and passing through a portion of the canal to reach the external ring, has therefore a certain degree of obliquity. This change in position may coin- cide with a change of the peritoneal fossa, which furnishes the hernial sac