838 THE STOMACH.—THE INTESTINE. The absorbents are very numerous; arising from a very fine superficial plexus immediately underlying the tubular glands, they form a coarser deeply situated net- work, between the areolar and muscular coats; the vessels proceeding from this network pierce the muscular coats, then follow the direction of the blood-vessels beneath the peritoneal investment, and traverse lymphatic glands found along the two curvatures of the stomach. No trace of lymphatics has been found between the tubuli, therefore the whole depth of the secreting structure intervenes between the layer of lymphatics and the contents of the stomach, whereas capillary blood-vessels are distributed close to the surface ; an arrangement which seems favourable for the interchange of material between the contents of the stomach and those of the blood- vessels rather than of the lymphatics. The ne7'ves, which are large, consist of the terminal branches of the two pneumo- gastric nerves, belonging to the cerebro-spinal system, and of olFsets from the sympa- thetic system, derived from the solar plexus. Numerous small ganglia have been found by Remak and others on both the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic twigs. The nerves may be traced through the submucous coat, but no farther, as they then lose their tubular character, and cannot be distinguished from other tissues. (Kolliker.) The left pneumo-gastric nerve descends on the front, and the right upon the back of the stomach. The Pylorus.—While there is no special apparatus at the cardiac orifice of the stomach for closing the passage from the oesophagus, the opening at the pyloric end, leading from the stomach into the duodenum, is provided with a sphincter muscle. On looking into the pyloric end of the stomach, the mucous membrane is seen projecting in the form of a circular fold, called the pylorus, leaving a correspondingly narrow opening. Within this fold are circular muscular fi.bres, belonging to the general system of circular fibres of the alimentary canal, which are here accumulated in the form of a strong band, whilst the longitudinal muscular fibres and the peritoneal coat pass over the pyloric fold to the duodenum, and do not enter into its formation. Externally the pylorus may be easily felt, like a thickened ring, at the right end of the stomach. Internally its opening is usually circular, and less than half an inch across, so that it is the narrowest part of the whole alimentary canal. (See figures 581 and 586.) Occasionally the orifice is oval, and it is often placed a little to one side. Some- times the circular rim is imperfect, and there are found instead two crescentic folds, placed one above and the other below the passage (Huschke); and, lastly, there is occasionally but one such crescentic fold. THE SMALL INTESTIINTE. The small intestine reaches from the pylorus to the ileo-csecal valve, at which it opens into the large intestine. It consists of a convoluted tube, measuring on an average about twenty feet in length in the healthy adult, and becoming gradually slightly narrower from its upper to its lower end. Its numerous convolutions occupy the middle regions of the abdomen, and are surrounded by the large intestine. They are connected with the back of the abdominal cavity, and are held in their position by a covering and fold of the peritoneum, named the mesentery, and by numerous blood- vessels and nerves. The small intestine is arbitrarily divided into three portions, which have received diflferent names ; the first ten or twelve inches immediately suc- ceeding to the stomach, and comprehending the widest anS. most fixed part of the tube, being called the duodenum, the upper two-fifths of the remainder being named the jejunum, and the lower three-fifths the ileum,. There