954 MALE ORGANS OF GENEEATIOK size ; the third, or middle lobe, is a smaller rounded or triangular mass, intimately connected with the other two, and fitted in between them on the under side, lying immediately beneath the neck of the bladder and the adjacent part of the urethra. This third lobe is exposed by turning down the seminal vesicles and ducts, between which and the cervix vesicae it is placed ; being in fact the part of the gland contained between and behind the grooves or fissures by which the ejaculatory ducts reach the urethra. The separation between these lobes, which is little marked in the natural state, becomes often much more apparent in disease. Structure,—The prostate is enclosed in a dense fibrous coat, which is continuous with the recto-vesical fascia, and with the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, and is rather difficult to tear or cut. Adams describes the fibrous capsule as divisible into two layers, between which the prostatic plexus of veins is enclosed. The prostate is a highly muscular organ ; its external coat contains numerous plain fibres ; within the proper glandular structure, which lies somewhat superficially, there is a strong layer of circular fibres continuous posteriorly with, tlie sphincter vesica). Ellis finds that these muscular fibres not only join behind with the circular fibres of the bladder, but are continuous in front with the thin layer hereafter described around the membranous part of the urethra (p. 9G2). According to Pettigrew, the muscular fibres of the prostate are the lower parts of figure-8 loops, which spread superiorly on the bladder. The substance of the gland is spongy and more yielding ; its colour is reddish grey, or sometimes of a brownish hue. It consists of numerous small follicles or terminal vesicles opening into elongated canals, which unite into a smaller number of excretory ducts. These appear either as pores or as whitish streaks, according to the way in which they are exposed in a section. The epithelium in the vesicular terminations is thin and squamous, whilst in the canals it is columnar. The capillary blood-vessels spread out as in other similar glands on the ducts and clusters of vesicles, and the difierent glan- dular elements are united by areolar tissue, and supported by processes of the deep layer of the fibrous capsule (Adams). The ducts open by from twelve to twenty or more orifices upon the fioor of the urethra, chiefly in the hollow on each side of the verumontanum (p. 963).—(Adams, Cyclop, of Anat., vol. iv., p. 147 ; Ellis and Pettigrew, referred to at p. 951). Vessels and Nerves.—The prostate is supplied by branches of the vesical, hsemorrhoidal, and pudic arteries. Its veins form a plexus round the sides and base of the gland, which is highly developed in old subjects. These veins communicate in front with the dorsal vein of the penis, and behind with branches of the internal iliac vein. According to Adams, the lym- phatics, like the veins, are seen ramifying between the two layers of the fibrous capsule. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. Prostatic fluid.—This is.mixed with the seminal fluid during emission; as obtained from the human prostate soon after death, it has a milky aspect^ which is ascribed by Adams to the admixture of a large number of epithelial cells, and he thinks it pro- bable that, as discharged during life, it is more transparent. According to the same observer, the prostatic fluid has an acid reaction, and presents, under the microscope, numerous molecules, epithelial particles both squamous and columnar, and granular nuclei about gig inch in diameter. As age advances, this gland is disposed to become enlarged; and its ducts often contain small round concretions of laminated appear- ance, and varying from a small size up to that of a millet seed; they sometimes con- tain carbonate of lime, but are principally composed of animal matter, which in some of them appears to be entirely am.ylaceous, in others albuminous, and more frequently is of a mixed character. (Virchow's Cellular Pathology, by Chance, p. 369.)