837 GASTRIC GLANDS. faces ; and their inner surface is lined with cells. At tlie pyloric end of the stomach these cells appear to be entirely lined with a simple layer of columnar epithelium ; but in other portions of the organ, only the upper fourth of the tubuli is occupied by epithelium of that character ; the lower three-fourths containing finely granular nucleated cells, which are polygonal or oval in form, are much larger than the columnar, and do not form a stratum on the surface, but completely fill the cavity : these have been termed peptic cells. It has been supposed that only those glands which possess the last mentioned form of epithelium secrete the gastric juice, and they have accordingly been named peptic glands, and distinguished from the mucous glandSf in which the epithelium is columnar throughout. A marked distinction has been made out by various observers between peptic and mucous glands of the stomach in the lower animals. Not only have their anatomical characters been found to be different, but likewise their physiological properties, as it has been ascertained that the gastric secretion only possesses its peculiar solvent properties when proceeding from those parts of the stomach which contain glands of the peptic kind. An abrupt separation, however, between the two varieties of gland does not appear to exist in the human subject. (Henle, Byst. Anat. d, Mensch., vol. ii., p. 158, where also other works are referred to.) Lenticular follicles, similar to those of Peyer's glands, are found in the mucous membrane of the stomach, sometimes studding the greater part of its surface, and giving occasionally a granular or mammillated appearance to it. They are found in greater or less numbers all over the stomach, but are most numerous towards the pylorus. They are best seen in the stomachs of infants and children. Around the cardiac orifice they assume the charac- ter of multilocular crypts. They are more frequently found open than shut, the membrane which covers them being extremely delicate. (Allen Thomson, in Goodsir's Annals, i., p. 36.) A distinct but delicate epithelium exists all over the stomach, covering the margins and floors of the alveoli, and lining the tubuli also. It belongs for the most part to the columnar variety, alternating in some parts with the squamous, which is composed of very minute polygonal scales. In animals, there is a more or less distinct layer of muscular fibres in intimate relation Avith the simple basement membrane. These fibres are of the plain or un- striped variety, and are quite distinct from those which constitute the true muscular coat, being separated from them by the submucous areolar layer. Vessels and nerves.—The stomach is a highly vascular organ. Its arterial branches, derived from all three divisions of the coeliac axis, reach the stomach between the folds of the peritoneum, and form, by anastomosing together, two principal arterial arches, which are placed along its two curvatures. After ramifying between the several coats and supplying them with blood, and especially after dividing into very small vessels in the submucous areolar tunic, the ultimate arterial branches enter the mucous membrane, and ramifying freely, pass to its surface between the tubuli; here they form a plexus of very fine capillaries upon the walls of the tubules; and from this plexus larger vessels pass into a coarser capillary network upon the hexagonal borders of the alveoli. The veins, corresponding with the arteries, arise from the latter network (Brinton, "Stomach and Intestine" in Cyclop, of Anat.), and after forming a wide venous plexus in the submucous tissue, return the residual blood into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, and also directly into the vena portse. By the breaking up of the arteries into capillaries on the walls of the glands, these are furnished with pure blood for the elaboration of their secretion ; while it is the blood from which that secretion has been drawn which passes on to the capillaries of the free surface, and has added to it whatever materials may be taken into the cir- culation from the contents of the stomach.