Fig. 458.—Front of the Left Eyelids, 709 Fig. 458. LACHRYMAL GLAND AND CANALS. THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The parts which constitute the lachrymal apparatus are the following, viz.:—The gland by which the tears are secreted, situated at the upper and outer side of the orbit, together with its excretory ducts ; the two canals into which the fluid is received near the inner angle ; and the sac with the nasal duct continued from it, through which the tears pass into the inferior meatus of the nose. The lachrymal gland, an oblong flattened body, about the size of a small almond, is placed in the upper and outer part of the orbit, a little behind the anterior margin. The upper surface of the gland, convex, is lodged in a slight depression in the orbital plate of the frontal bone, to the periosteum of which it adheres by fibrous bands ; the lower surface is adapted to the convexity of the eyeball, and is in contact with the upper and the outer recti muscles. The fore part of the gland, separated from the rest by a slight depression, and sometimes described as a second lobe, or as a distinct gland, is closely adherent to the back of the upper eyelid, and is covered on the ocular surface only by a reflection of the conjunctiva. The glandular ducts, usually from six to eight in number, are very small, and emerge from the thinner portion of the gland. After running obliquely under the mucous membrane, and separating at the same time from each other, they oi3en in a row by separate orifices, the greater number in the fold above the outer canthus, and two of them (Hyrtl) in the fold below. WITH THE Lachrymal Canals and Na- sal Duct exposed. 1, 1, upper and lower lachrymal canals, showing towards the eyelids the narrow bent portions and the puncta lachrymalia ; 2, lachrymal sac ; 3, the lower part of the nasal duet ; 4, plica semilunaris ; 5, ca- runcula lachrymalis. Lachrymal canals.—On the mar- gin of each lid, near the inner angle, and in front of the fold of membrane called plica semilunaris, is a small elevation (papilla lachry- malis), already described. Each papilla is perforated by a small aperture, punctum lachrymale ; and at these apertures commence two small canals, canaliculi, which convey the tears from the eye to the lachrymal sac. The upper canal is rather the smaller and longer of the two : it first ascends from the punctum; then makes a sudden bend, and is directed inwards and downwards to join the lachrymal sac. The lower canal descends from the corresponding punctum ; and soon changing its direction like the upper one, takes a nearly horizontal course inwards. Both canals are dilated where they are bent. In some cases they unite near the end to form a short common trunk; more commonly they open separately, but close together, into the sac. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct constitute together the passage by which the tears are conveyed from the lachrymal canals to the cavity of the nose.