865 RELATIONS OF THE JJVEK. separated from the transverse fissure by the caudate lobe. It is prolonged upwards in an oblique direction to the posterior border of the liver, and may be said to join behind the Spigelian lobe with the fissure for the ductus venosus. It is at the bottom of this fossa that the blood leaves the liver by the hepatic veins, which end here in the vena cava. The sub- stance of the liver in some cases unites around the vena cava, and encloses that vessel in a canal. The last remaining fissure, or rather fossa (fossa cystis feller), is that for the lodgment of the gall-bladder ; it is sometimes continued into a slight notch on the anterior margin of the liver. Two shalloiv impressions are seen on the under surface of the right lobe ; one in front {impressio colica), corresponding with the hepatic flexure of the colon ; and one behind (impressio renalis), corresponding with the right kidney. The anterior border of the liver, a thin, free, and sharp margin, is the most movable part of the gland. Opposite the longitudinal fissure the anterior border presents a notch, and to the right of this, there is often another slight notch opposite the fundus of the gall-bladder. The posterior border of the liver, which is directed backwards and up- wards, is thick and rounded on the right side, but becomes gradually thinner towards the left. It is the most fixed part of the organ, and is firmly attached by areolar tissue to the diaphragm. This border of the liver is curved opposite to the projection of the vertebral column, and has a deep groove for the reception of the ascending vena cava. Of the two lateral borders of the liver, the 7'ight is placed lower down, and is thick and obtuse ; whilst the left is the thinnest part of the gland, is raised to a higher level, and reaches the cardiac part of the stomach. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the liver, like its lobes and fissures, are commonly described as five, but it seems scarcely necessary to give distinct names to so many parts which are only folds of membrane. One of these, the coronary ligament, is the fold of peritoneum by which the posterior border of the liver is attached to the diaphragm : this border lies in contact with the diaphragm, in the greater part of its extent, between the upper and under layers of the peritoneal fold ; but toward the two extremities of the organ these layers come into contact, and form two short mesenteries—the right and left triangidar ligaments^ of which the left is the longer and more distinct. Another of these so-called ligaments is the broad, falciform, or suspensory ligament, a wide thin membrane, composed of two layers of peritoneum, closely united together. By one of its margins it is connected with the under surface of the diaphragm, and with the posterior surface of the sheath of the right rectus muscle of the abdomen as low as the umbilicus ; by another it is attached along the convex surface of the liver, from its posterior border to the notch in its anterior border : the remaining margin is free, and contains between its layers the round ligament, a dense fibrous cord, the remnant of the umbilical vein of the foetus, which ascends from the umbilicus, within the lower edge of the broad ligament, and enters the longitudinal fissure on the under surface. These structures have been already referred to (p. 827 ). Position with regard to neighbouring parts.—Occupying the right hypo- chondriac region, and extending across the epigastric region into a part of the left hypochondrium, the liver is accurately adapted to the vault of the diaphragm above, and is covered, to a small extent in front, by the abdominal parietes. The right portion reaches higher beneath the ribs than the left, 3 L