ABDOMINAL PLEXUSES. 701 Fig. 455.—DrAGRiMMATio View of the Sy"mpathetio Cord of the Right Side, with ITS Principal Gtanglia, Plexuses, and Nerves. This figure is repeated in illustratioa of the sympathetic nerves in the lower half of the body. c, superior cervical ganglion ; c', second or middle ; c", inferior : from each of these ganglia cardiac nerves (deep on this side) are seen descending to the cardiac plexus ; c^l, placed immediately below the first dorsal sympathetic ganglion ; d6, is opposite the sixth ; 11, first lumbar ganglion ; eg, the terminal or coccygeal ganglion ; pjo, pharyngeal, and, lower down, laryngeal plexus ; j?5^, posterior pulmonary plexus spreading from the pneumo-gastric on the back of the right bronchus ; ca, on the aorta, the cardiac plexus, towards which, in addition to the cardiac nerves from the three cervical sympathetic ganglia, otlier branches are seen descending from the pneumogastric and recurrent nerves ; CO, right or posterior, and co', left or anterior coronai'y plexus ; o, oesophageal plexus in long meshes on the gullet; sp, great splanchnic nerve formed by branches from the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth dorsal ganglia; +, small splanchnic fi'om the ninth and tenth ; + +, smallest or third splanchnic from the eleventh : the first and second of these are shown joining the solar plexus, so ; the third descending to the renal plexus, re; connecting branches between the solar plexus and the pneumo-gastric nerves are also re- presented ; pn', above the place where the right pneumo-gastric passes to the lower or posterior surface of the stomach ; pii!', the left distributed on the anterior or upper surface of the cardiac portion of the organ: from the solar plexus large branches are seen sur- rounding the arteries of the coeliac axis, and descending to ms, the superior mesenteric plexus ; opposite to this is an indication of the suprarenal plexus ; below re (the renal plexus), the spermatic plexus is also indicated ; ao, on the front of the aorta, marks the aortic plexus, formed by nerves descending from the solar and superior mesenteric plexuses and from the lumbar ganglia; mi, the inferior mesenteric plexus surrounding the cor- responding artery; hy, hypogastric plexus placed between the common iliac vessels, connected above with the aortic plexus, receiving nerves from the lower lumbar ganglia, and dividing below into the right and left pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses ; pi, the right pelvic plexus ; from this the nerves descending are joined by those from the plexus on the superior hemorrhoidal vessel, mi', by sympathetic nerves from the sacral ganglia, and by numerous visceral nerves from the third and fourth sacral spinal nerves, and there are thus formed the rectal, vesical, and other plexuses, which ramify upon the viscera from behind forwai'ds and from below upwards, as towards tV, and v, the rectum and bladder. Eenal Plexus.—The nerves forming the renal plexus, fifteen or twenty in number, emanate for the most part from the outer part of the semilunar ganglion; but some are added from the solar plexus and the aortic plexus. Moreover, filaments from the smallest splanchnic nerve, and occasionally from the other splanchnic nerves, terminate in the renal plexus. In their course along the renal artery, ganglia of dif- ferent sizes are formed on these nerves. Lastly, dividing with the branching of the vessel, the nerves follow the renal arteries into the substance of the kidney. On the right side some filaments are furnished to the vena cava, behind which the plexus passes with the renal artery; and others go to form the spermatic plexus. Spermatic Plexus.— This small plexus commences in the renal, but receives in its course along the spermatic artery an accession from the aortic plexus. Continuing downwards to the testis, the spermatic nerves are connected with others which accompany the vas deferens and its artery from the pelvis. In the female, the plexus, like the artery, is distributed to the ovary and the uterus. C(ELiAC Plexus.—This plexus is of large size, and is derived from the fore part of the great epigastric plexus. It surrounds the coeliac axis in a kind of membra- nous sheath, and subdivides, with the artery, into coronary, hepatic, and splenie plexuses, the branches of which form communications corresponding with the arches of arterial anastomosis. The plexus receives ofi"sets from one or more of the splanchnic nerves, and on the left side a branch from the pneumo-gastric nerve is continued into it. (Swan.) The coronary -plexus is placed with its artery along the small curvature of the stomach, and unites with the nerves which accompany the pyloric artery, as well as with branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerves of this plexus enter the coats of the stomach, after running a short distance beneath the peritoneum. The hepatic plexus, the largest of the three divisions of the coeliac plexus, ascends with the hepatic vessels and the bile-duct, and, entering the substance of the liver,