1058 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. anterior belly of the digastric muscle is to be divided at the chin and turned down. The mylo-hyoid muscle is to be separated from its fellow in the middle line and from the hyoid bone, and reflected toward the jaw, in order to expose the deeper parts. The tongue is to be put on the stretch by fastening it forward ; the lower jaw is to be divided by a vertical saw-cut between the first and second incisor teeth, leaving intact the attachment of the genio-hyoid muscle ; the fragment of loose bone is to be raised, and the mucous membrane of the mouth slit up to the tip of the tongue. The dissector will first trace carefully out the gustatory nerve, where it is in contact with the submaxillary gland, and will exhibit the submaxillary ganglion connected with it (p. 609). He will then isolate the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and will observe the relations of Wharton's duct, the sublingual ducts, and the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves (p. 816). He will examine the hyoglossus muscle, the genio-hyoid, the genio-hyoglossus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles (p. 1.85) ; also the glosso-pbaryngeal nerve (p. 615), and the stylo-hyoid ligament (p. 52). On dividing the hyo-glossus muscle, the subjacent part of the lingual artery may be followed into its sublingual and ranine branches ; its small hyoid branch and its branch to the dorsum of the tongue may also be seen ; as well as those deep branches of the facial artery which have not yet been ex- amined, viz., the ascending palatine and the tonsillar branches (p. 348). 10. Parts close to the external basis of the Cranium.—If the styloid pro- cess be nipped through at its base and thrown down with the three styloid muscles attached, the dissector will be enabled to examine more particularly the pharyngeal plexus of nerves (p. 690). He may then also examine the relations of the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein (p. 359) : and he will follow up the hypoglossal, spinal-accessory, pneumo-gastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and sympathetic nerves to the basis of the skull ; examining the connexions of the superior ganglion of the latter with the other nerves mentioned, and with the anterior divisions of the upper cer- vical nerves (p. 620). The jugular foramen and the carotid canal are to be opened into ; and the eighth nerve, and the internal carotid artery with the carotid plexus accompanying it, are to be followed into the interior of the cranium (pp. 619 aud 688). Before leaving this part of the dissection, the students dissecting the head ought to make together a complete revision of all the parts in connexion with the basis of the cranium. 11. FharijnXj Larijnx, Palate^ Tongue, Nares, d-c.—Let the remains of the carotid arteries be removed, and the pharynx drawn away from its loose connection with the upper cervical vertebrae ; and let the base of the skull be divided between the pharynx and the recti capitis antici muscles ; then, leaving the neck and back part of the skull for a later examination, let the pharynx, with the parts in its vicinity, be prepared for dissection by distending its walls with hair or tow. The constrictor muscles of the pharynx are to be cleaned and examined, as also the origins of the levator and circumflexus palati muscles (p. 187). The next step is to open the pharynx from behind, by an incision in the middle line, and a transverse one close to the base of the skull ; and to examine the apertures of the nares, fauces, glottis, oesophagus, and Eustachian tubes (p. 819). The muscles of the soft palate are then to be dissected ; more particularly the insertions of the levator and circumflexus palati ; the palato-pharyngeus and palato-glossus corresponding in position to the posterior and anterior pillars of the fauces, and in the middle line the azygos uvulsa (p. 189). The Eustachian tube should also be dissected out.