542 THE CEREBRUM. where it is nearly lialf an inch. It is arched from before backwards. Its upper surface is distinctly marked by transverse furrows, which indicate the direction of the greater number of its fibres. It is also marked in the middle by a slight longitudinal groove, the raphe, which is bounded laterally by two white tracts, placed close to each other, named strice longitudinales, or nerves of Lancisi. On each side, near the margin, are seen other longitudinal lines (strias longitudinales laterales) occasioned by a few scanty white fibres. In front, the corpus callosum is reflected downwards and backwards, between the anterior lobes, forming a bend named the genu. The inferior or reflected portion, which is named the rostrum, becomes gradually nar- rower as it descends, and is connected by means of the lamina cinerea with the optic commissure. It also gives off the two bands of white substance, already noticed as the peduncles of the corpus callosum, which, diverging from one another, run backwards across the anterior perforated space on each side to the entrance of the Sylvian fissure. Fig. 371.—The Lateral Ventricles opened by A Horizontal Section, AND THE Middle Cornu exposed on the right side. I a, b, anterior and pos- terior parts of the great longitudinal fissure ; c, section of the anterior part of the corpus callosum ; d, posterior part of the same ; e, the left choroid plexus ; /, the fornix ; g, the an- terior, h, the posterior, and q, the descending cornu of the lateral ven- tricle ; Jc, Jc, corpora striata ; I, I, optic tha- larai ; oi, n, rigbt and left hippocampus minor; o, posterior pillar of the for- nix ; V, the corpus fimbri- atum into which it passes ; q, cornu ammonis or pes hippocampi; h, the medul- lary substance of the cere- bral hemisphere ; r, part of the cortical substance showing alternate grey and white matter ; s, s, taenia Behind, the corpus callosum terminates in a free thickened border (bour- relet, pad), the under surface of which is also free for a short distance forwards. The under surface of the corpus callosum is connected behind with the fornix, a structure to be presently described, and in the rest of its length with the septum lucidum, a vertical partition between the two lateral ven- tricles.