998 DEYELOPMEOT OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. in animals with horned uteri, the cornu of the uterus; but in the human subject it remains comparatively short, entering into the formation of the upper part of the organ. The remaining upper portion of the Mullerian duct constitutes the Fallopian tube —becoming at first open and subsequently fringed at its upper extremity. In the peritoneal elevation between the ovary and the base of the Wolffian body the fibrous ligament of the ovary is developed, while that part which proceeds onwards to the canal of Nuck becomes the round ligament of the uterus. The excretory ducts of the Wolf- fian bodies disappear in the human female, but in the pig and some ruminants they persist as the canals of Gaertner. The parovarium is generally believed to consist of the vestiges of some of the tubules of the Wolffian body, but it is held by Banks, to Fig. 694.—Diagram of THE Male Type of Sexual Organs. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, as in the preceding figure ; testicle in the place of its original formation ; caput epididymis ; v d, vas deferens ; W, scat- tered remains of the Wolffian body constitut- ing the organ of Giraldes ; vh, vas aberrans; m, Mullerian duct, the upper part of which remains as the hydatid of Morgagni, the lower part repre- sented by a dotted line as descending to the sinus pocularis consti- tutes the cornu and tube of the uterus masculinus; g, the gubernaculum ; vs, the vesicula semi- nalis ; pr, the prostate gland; C, Cowper's gland of one side ; cp, corpora cavernosa penis cut short ; s p, corpus spongiosum urethrse ; s, scrotum ; t', together with the dotted lines above, indicates the di- rection in which the testicle and epididymis change place in their de- scent from the abdomen into the scrotum. owe its origin to a development of tubes in the whitish blastema previously men- tioned, which appears in connection with the upper part of that body when it begins to shrink, and which, in the male, gives rise to the upper part of the epididymis and in this view Allen Thomson is disposed to concur. In the male the Mullerian ducts are destined to undergo little development, and are of no physiological importance, while the ducts of the Wolffian bodies, and pro- bably also some part of their glandular substance, form the principal part of the excre- tory apparatus of the testicle. The united portion of the Mullerian ducts remains as the vesicula prostatica, which accordingly not only corresponds with the uterus, as was shown by Weber, but likewise, as pointed out by Leuckart, contains as much of the vagina as is represented in the male. In some animals the vesicula prostatica is prolonged into cornua and tubes; but in the human subject the whole of the Fig. 694.