DISSECTION or TIIK HEAD AND NECK. 1052 lateral sinuses from that point to the jugular foramina. The cavernous sinuses, joined together by means of the circular sinus, are then to be opened ; and the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, and the trans- verse sinus (p. 461). In the vicinity of the cavernous sinus the rela- tions of the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and Gth nerves are to be exhibited, and also the internal carotid artery and the Gasserian ganglion (pp. 594 and 350) ; after which the nerves are to be replaced in situ and protected with cotton dipped in spirits, that they may be ultimately traced forward in the dissection of the orbit. The pituitary body is to be removed from its position in the sella turcica, and its form and structure examined (p. 539). If the above examination of the sinuses cannot be accomplished, at this stage of dissection, the interior of the skull must be carefully cleaned, and protected from the air by replacing the skullcap or other- wise. The dissectors must also attend to the preservation of the parts at the back of the neck before the subject is turned. 3.—Cervical Rerjion superficially, and Posterior Cervical Triangle.—It is essential that within four days after the subject has been laid upon its back, the dissection of the posterior and inferior triangle of the neck be completed, so that the third part of the subclavian artery may be seen to advantage before the clavicle and the vessels and nerves of the superior extremity are divided. AYith this view, a fcuperficial dissection is advised of the whole cervical region. Make an incision in the middle line from the sternum to the chin ; another from the acromion, along the clavicle, to the sternum ; and a third from the chin to the l)ack of the ear ; and let the flaps so obtained be reflected backwards ; care being taken not to injure the fibres of the platysma myoides, nor the nerves which lie in the superficial fascia. The platysma is to be examined and reflected upwards (p. I78j; after which, let the external and anterior jugular veins be laid bare, and also the cuta- neous branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, viz. :—superiorly, the super- ficial cervical, great auricular, and small occipital nerves ; and, inferiorly, the suprasternal, supraclavicular, and supraacromial nerves : these will be traced most easily from their line of emergence at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle (pp. 459 and C38). Let the disposition also be noted of the deep cervical fascia (p. 197). The dissector will then cut down through the fat at the lower part of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and uncover the omo hyoid muscle, whose posterior belly emerges from behind the sterno-mastoid, and forms the superior boundary of the inferior division of the posterior triangle. He will remove the fat and lymphatic glands from the inferior triangle, until the scalenus anticus muscle is reached, which will serve as a guide to the third part of the subclavian artery and vein, and the superior trunks of the brachial plexus of nerves (pp. 366 and 643). Besides these structures, the dissector will observe, while engaged with this space, if the sterno- mastoid muscle is narrow, the phrenic nerve upon the surface of the scalenus anticus muscle; he will find the suprascapular nerve and the small branch to the subclavius muscle both coming from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, the transverse cervical and suprascapular arteries, and part of the scalenus medius and posticus muscles, as well as the lower set of the chain of lymphatic glands which lie along the line of the sterno-mastoid muscle (pp. 644 and 499). The superior part of the posterior triangle is next to be dissected by clearing the upper attachments of the scaleni muscles, with the splenius colli and levator scapulae (p. 177), when