THE NOSE. 772 the nasal cavity. Tlie anterior margin, thicker than the posterior one, meets the lateral cartilage of the opposite side above, but is closely united with the edge of the cartilage of the septum below ; so closely indeed, that by some, as Henle, the upper lateral are regarded as reflected wings of the median cartilage. The inferior margin is connected by fibrous mem- brane with the lower lateral cartilage; and the posterior edge is inserted into the ascending process of the Fio'. 529. Fig. 530. upper maxilla and the free margin of the nasal bone. Fig. 529.—Front View of the Cartilages of the Nose (from Arnold). | a, a', nasal bones ; 1,1', upper lateral cartilages or wing-like ex- pansions of the septal cartilage ; 2, 2', lower lateral cartilages. Fig. 530.—View of the Carti- lages OF the Nose from be- low (from Arnold), f 2, 2\ outer part of the lower lateral cartilages; 2*, 2% inner part of the same ; 4, lower edge of the cartilage of the septum. The lower lateral cartilages (cartilagines alarum nasi) are thinner than the preceding, below which they are placed, and are chiefly characterised by their peculiar curved form. Each cartilage consists of an elongated plate, so bent upon itself as to pass in front and on each side of the nostril to which it belongs, and by this arrangement serves to keep it open. The outer portion is somewhat oval and flattened, or irregularly convex externally. Behind, it is attached to the margin of the ascending process of the upper maxilla, by tough fibrous membrane, in which are two or three cartilaginous nodules (cartilag. minores vol sesamoideoe) ; above, it is fixed, also by fibrous membrane, to the upper lateral cartilage, and to the lower and fore park of the cartilage of the septum. Towards the middle line it is curved back- wards, bounding a deep mesial groove, at the bottom of which it meets with its fellow of the opposite side, and continues to pass backwards, forming a small part of the columna nasi, below the level of the cartilage of the septum. This inner part of the cartilage of the ala is thick and narrow, curls outwards, and ends in a free rounded margin which projects out- wards towards the nostril. The lower and most prominent portion of the ala of the nose, like the lobule of the ear, is formed of thickened skin with subjacent tissue, and is unsupported by cartilage. The cartilage of the septum has a somewhat triangular outline, and is thicker at the edges than near the centre. It is placed nearly vertically in the middle line of the nose, and completes, at the fore part, the separation between the nasal fossse. The anterior margin of the cartilage, thickest above, is firmly attached to the back of the nasal bones near their line of junction ; and below this it lies successively between the upper and the lower lateral cartilages, united firmly with the former and loosely with the latter. The posterior margin is fixed to the lower and fore part of the central plate of the ethmoid bone ; and the lower margin is received into