812 THE TONGUE. The arteries of the tongue are derived from the lingualis, with some small branches from the facial and ascending pharyngeal. With these the veins for the most part correspond. (See pp. 348 and 456.) Fig. 570. Fig. 570.—Lateral View op the Nerves and Blood-vessels of the Tongue (from Hirschfeld and Leveille). | The lower jaw has been divided near the symphysis, and the right half removed; the hyoid bone is entire, and the extrinsic muscles of the tongue are preserved on the right side, a, the epithelial covering of the tongue partially raised; 6, the papillar surface of the mucous membrane exposed ; c, the same near the papillge vallatse ; d, placed on the superior constrictor of the pharynx, points to the stylo-glossus muscle ; e, stylo-pharyngeus muscle, passing within the middle constrictor ; /, hyo-glossus ; g, middle constrictor of the pharynx ; h, genio-hyo-glossus ; i, genio-hyoideus ; 1, trunk of the lingual artery ; 2, ranine artery; 3, sublingual branch; 4, its terminal branches ; 5, trunk of the gustatory nerve ; 6', distribution of its terminal twigs in the mucous membrane of the fore part of the tongue ; 5", submaxillary ganglion ; 5"', another small ganglion, connected with the gustatory nerve ; 6, chorda tympani nerve, passing from the facial nerve 7, to the trunk of the gustatory; 8, trunk of the glosso-pharyngeal, receiving a twig of communication from the facial ; 8', its distribution near the papillae vallatss ; 9, hypoglossal nerve ; 9', its twigs to the hyo-glossus muscle and union with the gustatory ; further forward are seen its terminal branches to the muscular substance of the tongue. The nerves of the tongue (exclusive of branches from the sympathetic nerves) are three : viz. the lingual or gustatory branch of the fifth pair, which supplies the papillae and mucous membrane of the fore part and sides of the tongue to the extent of about two-thirds of its surface; the lingual branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which sends filaments to the mucous membrane at the base of the tongue, and especially to the papillae vallatse; and, lastly, the hypoglossal nerve, which is distributed to the muscles. (See the description of these nerves.) Eemak and Kolliker have dis- covered microscopic ganglia upon the expansion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and in the sheep and calf upon the gustatory division of the fifth. Eemak thought that they had some relation to the glands, but Kolliker finds them on branches not con- nected with those organs.