THE ABDOMEK—THE PERITONEUM. 826 Epigastric region Hypochondriac, right Hypochondriac, left, Umbilical Lumbar, right Lumbar, left. Hypogastric . Iliac, right . Iliac, left . . PARTS SITUATED IN EACH REGION OF THE ABDOMEN. The middle part of the stomach, with its pyloric extremity, the left lobe of the liver, the hepatic vessels and lobulus Spigelii, the pancreas, the coeliac axis, the semilunar ganglia, part of the vena cava, and also, as they lie between the crura of the diaphragm, part of the aorta, the vena azygos and thoracic duct. ( The right lobe of the liver, with the gall-bladder, ) part of the duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the ) colon, the right supra-renal capsule, and part of ( the corresponding kidney. {The large end of the stomach, with the spleen and narrow extremity of the pancreas, the splenic flexure of the colon, the left supra-renal capsule and upper part of the left kidney. Sometimes also a part of the left lobe of the liver. IPart of the omentum and mesentery, the transverse part of the colon, transverse part of the duodenum, with some convolutions of the jejunum and ileum. J The ascending colon, lower half of the kidney and \ part of the jejunum. The corresponding parts of the opposite side. The convolutions of the ileum, the bladder in children, and, if distended, in adults also ; the uterus when in the gravid state. J The csecum, ileo-csecal valve, the ureter, and sper- \ matic vessels. / The sigmoid flexure of the colon, the ureter and |_ spermatic vessels. THE PERITONEUM. The peritoneum or serous membrane of the abdominal cavity is by far the most extensive and complicated of the serous membranes. Like the others it may be considered to form a shut sac, on the outside of which are placed the viscera which it covers. In the female, however, the two Fallopian tubes open at their free extremities into the cavity of the peritoneum. The internal surface is free, smooth, and moist, and is covered by a thin squamous epithelium. The external or attached sur- face adheres partly to the parietes of the abdomen and pelvis, and partly to the outer surface of the viscera situated within them. The parietal portion is connected loosely with the fascia lining the abdomen and pelvis by means of a layer of areolar tissue, distinct from the abdominal fasciae, and named the sub-peritoneal or retro-peritoneal layer ; but it is more firmly adherent along the middle line of the body in front, as well as to the under surface of the diaphragm. The visceral portion, which is thinner than the other, forms a more or less perfect investment to most of the abdominal and pelvic viscera. The folds of the peritoneum are of various kinds. Some of them, constituting the mesenteries, connect certain portions of the intestinal canal with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; they are, the mesentery properly so called for the jejunum and ileum, the meso-csecum, transverse and sig- moid meso-colon, and the meso-rectum. Other duplicatures, which are called omenta, proceed from one viscus to another ; they are distinguished as the great omentum, the small omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. Lastly, certain reflexions of the peritoneum from the walls of the abdomen or pelvis to viscera which are not portions of the intestinal canal, are named liga- ments : these include the ligaments of the liver, spleen, uterus, and bladder.