622 THE CEANIAL NEEVES. it divides into branches which, conjointly with others derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, the superior laryngeal, and the sympathetic nerves, form a plexus (pharyngeal) behind the middle constrictor of the pharynx. From the plexus branches are given to the muscular structure, and to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. As the pharyngeal nerve crosses the carotid artery, it joins filaments which the glosso-pharyngeal distributes on the same vessel.-—There is sometimes a second pharyngeal branch. SUPERIOR LARYNGEAL BRANCH. This nerve springs from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve. It is directed inwards to the larynx beneath the internal carotid artery, and divides beneath that vessel into two branches, distinguished as external and internal laryngeal, both of which ramify in the structures of the larynx. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller of the two divisions, gives backwards, at the side of the pharynx, filaments to the pharyngeal plexus and the lower constrictor muscle ; and it is finally prolonged beneath the muscles on the side of the larynx to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. In the neck this branch joins the upper cardiac nerve of the sympathetic. The internal laryngeal branch is continued to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, where it perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane with the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery, and dis- tributes filaments to the mucous membrane : some of these are directed up- wards in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane to the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the epiglottidean glands; while others are reflected downwards in the lining membrane of the larynx, extending to the chorda vocalis, on the inner side of the laryngeal pouch. A slender communicating branch to the recurrent laryngeal nerve descends beneath the lateral part of the thyroid cartilage. A branch enters the arytenoid muscle, some fila- ments of which seem to end in the muscle, while others proceed through it to the mucous membrane. RECURRENT LARYNGEAL BRANCH. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal branch of the vagus nerve, as the name expresses, has a reflex course to the larynx. The nerve on the right side arises at the top of the thorax, winds round the subclavian artery, and passes beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries in its course towards the trachea. On the left side the re- current nerve is bent round, below and behind, the arch of the aorta, imme- diately beyond the point where the obliterated ductus arteriosus is con- nected with the arch, aud is thence continued upwards to the trachea. Each nerve in its course to the larynx is placed between the trachea and oesophagus, supplying branches to both tubes ; and each, while making its turn round the artery, gives nerves to the deep cardiac plexus. At the lower part of the cricoid cartilage the recurrent nerve distributes branches to supply all the special muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid muscle, which is supplied from the upper laryngeal nerve. It likewise gives a few offsets to the mucous membrane, and a single communicating filament, which joins the long branch of the upper laryngeal nerve beneath the side of the thyroid cartilage.