OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNL'E. 1025 resistance; and these are the circumstances under which protrusions actually take place. The protrusions of the viscera, or hernise, which occur in the course of the inguinal canal, are named "inguinal." Of this form of the disease two varieties are recognised : and they are distinguished according to the part of the canal which they first enter into, as well as by the position they bear with respect to the epigastric artery. Thus, when the hernia takes the course of the inguinal canal from its commencement, it is named oblique, because of the direction of the canal, or extp.nial, from the position its neck bears with respect to the epigastric artery. On the other hand, when the protruded part, without following the length of the canal, is forced at once through its termination, i. e. through the external abdominal ring, the hernia is named, from its course, direct, or, from its relation to the epigastric artery, internal. In these, the two principal varieties of inguinal hernia, there are some modifications which will be adverted to in the special notice of each. Oblique inguinal hernia.—In the common form of this hernia the pro- truded viscus carries before it a covering of peritoneum (the sac of the hernia), derived from the outer fossa of that serous membrane ; and in passing along the inguinal canal to the scrotum, it is successively clothed with the cover- ings given to the spermatic vessels from the abdominal parietes. The hernia and its sac lie directly in front of the vessels of the spermatic cord (the intes- tines and the peritoneum having the same position relatively to those vessels in the abdomen) ; but when the disease is of long standing, the vessels may be found to be separated from each other, and pressed more or less towards the side or even the fore part of the sac, under the influence of the weight of the tumour. The hernia does not extend below the testis, even when it attains large size. That it does not is owing, doubtless, to the intimate connection Avhich the coverings of the cord have with the tunica vaginalis testis. When the hernia does not extend beyond the inguinal canal, it is distin- guished by the wdime bubonocele: and when it reaches the scrotum, it is com- monly named from that circumstance scrotal hernia. There are two other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia, in which the peculiarity depends on the condition of the process of peritoneum that accom- panies the testis when this organ is moved from the abdomen. In ordinary circumstances the part of the peritoneum, connected immediately with the testis, becomes separated from the general cavity of that serous membrane by the obliteration of the intervening canal; and the hernial protrusion occurring after such obliteration has been completed, carries with it a dis- tinct serous investment—the sac. But if the hernia should be formed before the process of obliteration is begun, the protruded part is then received into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, which serves in the place of its sac. In this case the hernia is named congenital (hernia tunicse vaginalis,— Cooper). It is thus designated, because the condition necessary for its for- mation usually exists only about the time of birth ; but the same variety of the complaint is occasionally found to be first formed in the adult, obviously in consequence of the tunica vaginalis remaining unclosed,—still continuous with the peritoneum. The congenital hernia, should it reach the scrotum, passes below the testis ; and this organ being imbedded in the protruded