1053 ANTERIOR CERVICAL TRIANGLE. the arraBgemeut of the cervical plexus will be seen, together with the origin of the phrenic nerve (p. 636) ; also the spinal-accessory nerve emerging from the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and forming connections with the cervical plexus before it disappears beneath the trapezius muscle (p. 625). The seven cervical and first dorsal nerves are to be cleaned up to their emergence from the intervertebral foramina, the communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve being preserved if possible (p, 691) ; and the posterior thoracic nerve and the branch to the rhomboid muscles are to be found (p. 643). 4. Anterior Triangle and Deep parts of the JSfeclc. —Let a dissection of the deep fascia and of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles be made in the middle line between the larynx and sternum, to exhibit the relations of the trachea as connected with the operation of tracheotomy (p. 888), in particular noticing the position of the innominate artery, the common carotid arterie^s, the thyroid body, the inferior thyroid veins, and the arteria thyroidea ima, if it be present (pp. 340 and 920). The dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck is now to be proceeded with, by cleaning the whole of the sterno- mastoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle (p. 191) ; and in front of the sheath of the great vessels the descendens noni nerve, with its twigs to the three last named muscles, is to be laid bare (p. 626). Let the sheath of the vessels be opened, and the upper part of the common carotid artery exposed, with the pneumo-gastric nerve and internal jugular vein beside it ; mark the place of its division into external and internal carotid arteries, and examine the first part of these two vessels, following the external carotid up to the parotid gland. Let the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles be cleaned, and the parts be exposed in the submaxillary triangle, viz,, the superficial part of the submaxillary gland, the submental branch of the facial artery, and the mylo-hyoid muscle, with the nerve that supplies it (pp. 183 and 608) ; observe also the ninth cranial or hypoglossal nerve lying close to the stylo-hyoid muscle, and dissect out its branch to the thyro-hyoid muscle (p. 627). The sterno-mastoid muscle is to be divided about three inches from its upper end, and the superior part is to dissected quite up to the bone, care being taken not to cut the spinal accessory nerve which pierces it. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ought now to be divided near their lower end, the thyroid body dissected, and its form and relations noted. The dissector will then direct his attention to the branches of the external carotid artery ; he will dissect the superior thyroid artery and note its sterno-mastoid branch (already cut), and the hyoid, laryngeal, and crico-thyroid branches; he will dis- sect also the cammencement of the ascending pharyngeal artery, the occi- pital artery as far as the occipital groove of the temporal bone, the posterior auricular artery, the lingual artery as far as the border of the hyoglossus muscle, and the facial artery as far as the lower jaw (p, 346) ; he will also lay bare the pneumo-gastric nerve as far as convenient, tracing the superior and external laryngeal branches (p. 622). In the lower part of the neck, the subclavian artery is now to be examined in the three parts of its course ; and the different relations of the subclavian and common carotid arteries in the first part of their courses on the two sides of the body are to be carefully compared (p. 364). The internal jugular and the subclavian veins, with the branches entering them, are to be dissected, and on the left side the arched part of the thoracic duct descending into the angle of junction of these two veins (pp. 459, 469, and 488). The branches of the subclavian artery are to be displayed, viz., the ver-