802 THE TEETH. the jaw, the permanent sac acquires at first a pear-shape, and is then con- nected with the gnm by a solid membranous pedicle. The recess in the jaw has a similar form, drawn out into a long canal for the pedicle, which opens Fig. 560. I. II. III. IV. V. Fig. 560.—Sketches showing the Eblations of the Temporary and Permanent Dental Sacs and Teeth (after Blake, with some additions). The lower parts of the three first figures, which are somewhat enlarged, represent .sections of the lower jaw through the alveolus of a temporary incisor tooth : a, indicates the sac of the permanent tooth ; c, its pedicle ; b, the sac of the milk tooth or the milk tooth itself; a% b', indicate the alveolar recesses in which the permanent and temporary teeth are lodged, and c, the canal by which that of the former leads to the surface of the bone behind the alveolus of the temporary tooth. The fourth and fifth figures, which are nearly of the natural size, show tbe same relations in a more advanced stage, in IV, previous to the change of teeth, in V, when the milk-tooth has fallen out and the per- manent tooth begins to rise in the jaw; c, the orifice of the bouy canal leading to the place of the permanent tooth. on the edge of the jaw, by an aperture behind the corresponding milk tooth. The permanent tooth is thus separated from the socket of the milk tooth by a bony partition, against which, as well as against the root of the milk tooth just above it, it presses in its rise through the gum, so that these parts are in a greater or less extent absorbed. When this has proceeded far enough, the milk tooth becomes loosened, falls out or is removed, and the permanent tooth takes its place. The absorption of the dental substance commences at or near the ends of the fangs, and proceeds upwards until nothing but the crown remains. The cement is first attacked, and then the dentine : but the process is similar in the two tissues. The change is not produced merely by pressure, but through the agency of a special cellular structure developed at the time, and applied to the surface of the tooth. Hollows or indentations occur upon the latter, giving it a festooned appearance : and it frequently happens that the dental tissues are deposited, absorbed, and redeposited alternately in the same tooth (Tomes). The milk teeth and the permanent teeth are said by Serres to be supplied by two difierent arteries, the obliteration of the one belonging to the temporary teeth being regarded by him as the cause of their destruction ; but of this there is no sufficient proof. The six posterior (or '^superadded") permanent teeth, that is, the three permanent molars on each side, do not come in the place of other teeth. They arise from successive extensions of the dental groove carried backwards in the jaw, posterior to the milk teeth, and named by Goodsir posterior cavities of reserve."