1026 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HEENIiE. viscus, a careful examiuation is necessary in order to detect its position. This peculiarity serves to distinguish the congenital from the ordinary form of the disease. Fig. 707. Fig. 707. — Diagrams of a part op the Peritoneum and the Tunica Vagina- lis Testis. In tlie first, a, the serous investment of the testis is seen to be an elongation from the peritoneum; while in the second, b, the two membranes are shown distinct from each other. 1, the peritoneal cavity ; 2, the testis. To the second variety of inguinal hernia, in which the distinguishing character depends on the state of the tunica vaginalis testis, the name "in- fantile " has been applied (Hey). The hernia in this case is covered with a distinct sac, the peculiarity consisting in the circumstance of the rupture with its sac being invested by the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. The relative position of the two serous membranes (the hernial sac and the tunica vaginalis) may be accounted for by supposing the hernia to descend when the process of the peritoneum, which accompanies the testis from the abdomen, has been merely closed at the upper end, but not obliterated for any length. As the tunica vaginalis at this period extends upwards to the wall of the abdomen, the hernia, in its descent, soon meets that membrane and becomes invested by it. The exact mode of the investment has not yet been clearly made out by dissection. It may be that the hernia passes behind the upper end of the large serous tunic of the testis, which then laps round the sac from before, or that the tunica vaginalis is inverted from above so as to receive the hernia in a depression. But the fact most material for the sur- geon is fully ascertained—namely, that during an operation in such a case, the hernial sac is met with only after another serous bag (the tunica vagi- nalis testis) has been divided. The peculiarity here described has been repeatedly found present in the recently-formed hernia of grown persons. The term infantile, therefore, like congenital, has reference to the condition of certain parts, rather than to the period of life at which the disease is first formed. In the female, oblique inguinal hernia follows the course of the round ligament of the uterus along the inguinal canal, in the same manner as in the male it follows the spermatic cord. After escaping from the external abdominal ring, the hernia lodges in the labium pudendi. The coverings are the same as those in the male body, with the exception of the cremaster, which does not exist in the female : but it occasionally happens that some fibres of the internal oblique muscle are drawn down over this hernia in loops, so as to have the appearance of a cremaster (Cloquet). A strictly congenital inguinal hernia may occur in the female, the pro- truded parts being received into the little diverticulum of the peritoneum (canal of Nuck), which sometimes extends into the inguinal canal with the round ligament. But as this process of the peritoneum, in such circum- stances, would probably not ditfer in any respect from the ordinary sac, there are no means of distinguishing a congenital hernia in the female body.