1032 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HERNIiE. Such diiference, however, is no more than a verbal one, the material fact being merely that the two membranes are connected together along the groin. The separation of the fascia lata into two parts at the saphenous open- ing, and the position and connections of each part, having been described in detail, only a few points in the arrangement of this membrane will be noticed in this place. At the lower end of the saphenous opening the iliac division of the fascia is continuous with the pubic by a well-defined curved margin immediately above which the saphenous vein ends ; above the opening a pointed cornu (falciform process—Burns*) of the same por- tion of the fascia extending inwards in connection with the femoral arch reaches Gimberuat's ligament ; and in the interval between the two points now referred to (i. e., from the upper to the lower end of the saphenous opening), the iliac portion of the fascia lata blends with the subjacent sheath of the femoral vessels as well as with the superficial fascia. The pubic part of the fascia covers the pectineus muscle, and is attached to the pectineal ridge of the hip-bone. Immediately below the femoral arch the iliac and pubic portions lie one before, the other behind, the femoral blood-vessels and their sheath : they occupy the same position with respect to the femoral hernia. Fig. 711. ternal obliqtie and trausversalis muscles ; 9, behind the external abdominal ring. For an account of the superficial the integument in the neighbourhood Fig. 711.—The Groin of the Right Side dtssectkd so as to display THE Deep Femoral Arch. 1, the outer part of the femoral arch; 1', part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, including the femoral arch, and also the inner column of the external inguinal ring, projecting through which is seen a portion of the spermatic cord cut ; 2, the femoral arch at its insertion into the spine of the pubes. The fibres outside the numeral are those of Gimbernat's ligament; 3, the outer part of the femoral sheath ; 4, the spermatic cord, after having per- forated the fascia transversalis; 5, the deep femoral arch—its inner end where it is fixed to the pubes ; 6, internal oblique muscle; 7, trans- versalis. Beneath the lower edge of this muscle is seen the transversalis fascia, which continues into the femoral sheath under the deep femoral arch ; 8, conjoined tendon of the in- band of tendinous fibres directed upwards arteries and veins which ramify in >f the groin, see pp. 437 and 475. * Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. ii. p. 263, and fig. 2. In the first edition of Hey s Practical Observations in Surgery, the upper end of this process of the fascia was named the " femoral ligament; " and since then several anato- mists have distinguished the same part as " Hey's ligament." But Mr. Hey dro|>ped the designation in the subsequent editions of the same work, and there seems no good reason for continuing it. Compare the original edition (1803), p. 151, and plate 4, with the third edition (1814), p. 147, and plates 4, 5, and 6.