THE EAE. 748 SMALL BONES OF THE EAR, Three small bones (ossicala auditus) are contained in the upper part of the tympanum : of these, the outermost (malleus) is attached to the mem- brana tympani ; the innermost (stapes) is fixed in the fenestra ovalis ; and Fig. 503. Fig. 503.—Bones of the Tympanum OF THE Right Side (from Arnold). | A, malleus ; 1, its head ; 2, the handle ; 3, long or slender process ; 4, short process ; B, incus ; 1, its body ; 2, the long pi'ocess with the orbicular process ; 3, short or posterior process ; 4, articular surface receiving the head of the malleus ; G, stapes ; 1, head ; 2, posterior crus; 3, anterior crus; 4, base ; C*, base of the stapes ; D, the three bones in their natural con- nection as seen from the outside; a, malleus ; 6, incus ; c, stapes. the third (incus), placed between the other two, is connected to both by articular surfaces. The malleus and incus are placed in nearly a vertical, the stapes in a horizontal direction. They form together an angular and jointed connecting rod between the membrana tympani and the membrane which closes the fenestra ovalis. The malleus, or hammer bone, consists of a central thicker portion, with processes of different lengths. At the upper end of the bone is a rounded head (capitulum), which presents internally and posteriorly an irregularly oval surface covered with cartilage, for articulation with the incus. Below the head is a constricted neck (cervix) ; and beneath this another slight enlargement of the bone, to which the processes are attached. The handle (manubrium) of the malleus is a tapering and slightly twisted process, com- pressed from before backwards to near its point, where it is flattened in the opposite direction : it descends with a slight inclination forwards and in- wards, and is received between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani, to which it is closely attached. The long process (processus gra- cilis) is a very slender spiculiim of bone, which in the adult is usually broken off in its removal from the tympanum, in consequence of its union with the temporal bone ; it projects at nearly a right angle from the front of the neck of the malleus, and extends thence obliquely downwards and forwards to the Glasserian fissure. Its end is flattened and expanded, and is con- nected by ligamentous fibres and by bone to the sides of the fissure. The short process (processus brevis vel obtusus) is a low conical eminence spring- ing from the root of the manubrium, beneath the cervix, and projecting outwards towards the upper part of the membrana tympani. The incus has been compared to an anvil in form ; but it resembles per- haps more nearly a tooth with two fangs widely separated. It consists of a body and two processes. The body presents in front a concavo-convex articular surface, which is directed upwards and forwards, and receives the head of the malleus. The surfaces of the joint thus formed are tipped with articular cartilage and enclosed by a synovial membrane. The shorter of