OBTURATOR NERVE.—ACCESSORY. 663 is larger than usual, and descends along the posterior border of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it perforates the fascia, communicates with the internal saphenous nerve, and extends down the inner side of the limb, supplying the skin as low as the middle of the leg. Fig. 438.—The Lumbar Plexus from BEFORE, WITH THE DISTRIBUTION OP SOME OF ITS Nerves (slightly altered from Schmidt). ^ a, the last rib; b, quadratus lum- borum muscle ; c, oblique and trans- verse muscles cut near the crest of the ilium and turned down ; d, pubes ; e, adductor brevis muscle ; /, pectineus divided and turned outwards; g, adduc- tor longus ; 1, ilio-hypogastric nerve ; 2, ilio-inguinal; 3, external cutaneous ; 4, anterior crural ; 5, accessory obtu- rator ; 6, obturator, united with the ac- cessory by a loop round the pubes ; 7, genito-crui'al in two branches cut short near their origin ; 8, 8, lumbar portion of the gangliated sympathetic cord. "When this cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve is present, the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve is small, the size of the two nerves bearing an inverse proportion to each other. Fig. 438. B.—The posterior or deep part of the obturator nerve having passed through, some fibres of the external obturator muscle, crosses behind the short adductor to the fore part of the adductor mag- nus, where it divides into many branches, all of which enter those muscles, excepting one which is prolonged downwards to the knee-joint. (a) The muscular branches supply the external obturator and the great adductor muscle, with the short adductor also when this muscle receives no branch from the anterior division of the nerve. (&) The articidar branch for the knee rests at first on the adductor magnus, but perforates the lower fibres of that muscle, and thus reaches the upper part of the popliteal space. Supported by the popliteal artery, and sending filaments around that vessel, the nerve then descends to the back of the knee-joint, and enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. (Thomson, '' London Med. and Surg. Journal," No. xcv.) ACCESSORY OBTURATOR NERVE. The accessory obturator nerve, a small and inconstant nerve, arising from the obturator nerve near its upper end, or separately from the same nerves of the plexus, descends along the inner border of the psoas muscle, over the pubic bone, and passing behind the pectineus muscle, ends by dividing into several branches. Of these one joins the anterior branch of the obturator nerve ; another penetrates the pectineus on the under surface ; whilst a third enters the hip-joint with the articular artery.