980 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATIOi^. veins of the pars intermedia, those of the corpora cavernosa and the glans of the clitoris and also with the vena dorsalis. The lymphatics accompany the blood- vessels. j^erves. Besides sympathetic branches, which descend along the arteries, especially for the erectile tissues, there are other nerves proceeding from the lumbar and sacral plexuses ; those from the former being the branches of the genito-crural (p. 660), and those from the latter of the inferior pudendal and internal pudic nerves (p. 675), which last sends comparatively large branches to the clitoris. The mode of termina- tion is not known with certainty ; tactile corpuscles have been seen in the human clitoris, and Pacinian bodies in that of some animals. THE FEMALE URETHRA. The female urethra^ as compared with that of the other sex, is short, representing only the upper half of the prostatic part of the male passage. It is about an inch and a-half in length, and is wide and capable of great distension ; its ordinary diameter is about three or four lines, but it en- larges towards its vesical orifice. The direction of this canal is downwards and forwards, and it is slightly curved and concave upwards. It lies imbedded in the upper or rather the anterior wall of the vagina, from which it cannot be separated. The external orifice, or meatus urinarius, opens in the vulva, beneath the symphysis pubis, nearly an inch below and behind the clitoris, between the nymphie, and immediately above the entrance to the vagina. From its orifice, which is its narrowest part, the canal passes upwards and back- wards between the crura of the clitoris and behind the pubes, gradually enlarging into a funnel-shaped opening as it approaches and joins the neck of the bladder. There is also a dilatation in the floor of the canal, just within the meatus. The mucous membrane is whitish, except near the orifice ; it is raised into longitudinal plicse, which are not entirely obliterated by distension, especially one which is particularly marked on the lower or posterior sur- face of the urethra. Near the bladder the membrane is soft and pulpy, with many tubular mucous glands. Lower down these increase in size and lie in groups, between the longitudinal folds, and immediately within and around the orifice, the lips of which are elevated, are several larger and wider crypts. The lining membrane is covered with a scaly epithelium, but near the bladder the particles become spheroidal. The submucous areolar tissue contains elastic fibres. Outside this there is a highly vascular structure, in which are many large veins. Between the anterior and posterior layers of the triangular ligament, the female urethra is embraced by the fibres of the compressor uretbrse muscle. The vessels and nerves of the female urethra are very numerous, and are derived from the same sources as those of the vagina. THE VAGINA. The vagina is a membranous and dilatable tube, extending from the vulva to the uterus, the neck of which is embraced by it. It rests below and behind on the rectum, supports the bladder and urethra in front, and is enclosed between the leva.tores ani muscles at the sides. Its direction is curved backwards and upwards : its axis corresponding below with that of the outlet of the pelvis, and higher up with that of the pelvic cavity. In consequence of being thus curved, its length is greater along the posterior than along the anterior wall, being in the latter situation about four inches,