589 GENERAL DISTRIBUTION. sphenoidal fissure ; the superior maxillary and inferior maxillary divisions of the fifth pass respectively through the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale of the great wiug ; the facial and auditory nerves pierce the petrous bone ; the three parts of the eighth pair descend ia separate canals of the dura mater through the anterior part of the jugular foramen between the petrous and occipital bones, and the hypoglossal nerve passes through the anterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. General distribution.—The greater number of the cranial nerves are en- tirely confined in their distribution within the limits of the head ; as in the case of the first six pairs and the auditory nerve. Of these the olfactory, optic, and auditory are restricted to their respective organs of sense ; while the third, fourth, and sixth are exclusively motor nerves in connection with the external and internal muscles of the eyeball and that of the upper eye- lid. In the remaining nerve, the fifth or trifacial, all the fibres derived from the greater root, and connected with the Gasserian ganglion, are en- tirely sensory in their function, and constitute the whole of the first aud second and the greater part of the third division of the nerve : but the last of these divisions has associated with it the fibres of the lesser root, so as to become in some degree a compound nerve. As a nerve of sensa- tion the trifacial occupies ia its distribution the greater part of the head superficially and deeply, excepting the interior of the cranium and that part of the scalp which is situated in the region behind a perpendicular line passing through the external auditory meatus. The muscular distribution of the inferior division of the fifth nerve is chiefly to the muscles of masti- cation. Of the remaining nerves, the facial and hypoglossal, both exclusively motor in function, are almost entirely cephalic in their distribution ; the facial nerve giving fibres to all the superficial and a few of the deeper muscles of the head and face ; and the ninth or hypoglossal supplying the muscles of the tongue. Of the facial, however, a small branch joins one of the cervical nerves in the platysma myoides ; and of the niuth, the descending branch supplies in part the muscles of the neck which depress the hyoid bone and larynx. Of the three parts of the eighth pair, ranked as cranial nerves in conse- quence of their passiug through one of the foramina of the cranium, two have only a very limited distribution in the head, and furnish nerves in much greater proportion to organs situated in the neck and thorax. One of these, the pneumo-gastric, after giving a small branch to the ear-passages, and sup- plying nerves to the larynx and pharynx, the trachea, gullet, the lungs aud heart, extends into the abdominal cavity as the principal nerve of the stomach. The other, the spiual accessory, which is partially united with the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric near their origin and thus furnishes some of their motor fibres, is entirely a motor nerve, and i^ distributed in the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is more strictly confined to the head, supplying branches to the tongue, pharynx, and part of the ear-passages. On the following two pages, Fig. 401 is introduced in illustration of the general view of the distribution above given. In this figure the cranium and orbit have been opened up to the depth of the several foramina through which the nerves pass. The greater part of the lower jaw has also been removed on the left side, and the tongue, pharynx, and larynx are partially in view. The occipital bone has been divided by an incision passing down from the occipital tuberosity and through the condyle to the left of the foramen magnum. The cervical vertebrae have been divided to the left ot