DIRECT IXGUIXAL HER^s^LE. 1027 Direct inguinal hernia (internal : ventro-inguinal),—Instead of following the whole course of the inguinal canal, in the manner of the hernia above described, the viscas in this case is protruded from the abdomen to the groin directly through the lower end of the canal, at the external abdominal ring ; and at this point the two forms of hernia, if they co-existed, would come together. At the part of the abnomiual wall through which the direct inguinal hernia finds its way, there is recognised on its posterior aspect a triangular interval, the sides of which are formed by the epigastric artery, and the margin of the rectus muscle, and the base by Poupart's ligament. It is commonly named the triangle of Hesselbach. Through this space the hernia is protruded, carrying before it a sac from the internal fossa of the peritoneima ; and it is in general forced onwards directly into the external abdominal ring. Fig. 708. — Internal View of the Vessels related to the Groin. A portion of the wall of the abdo- men and the pelvis is here seen on the posterior aspect, the os innominatum of the left side and the soft parts con- nected with it having been removed from the rest of the body. 1, symphysis of the pubes ; 2, irregular surface of the hip-bone which has been separated from the sacrum ; 3, ischial spine ; 4, ischial tuberosity ; 5, obturator inter- nus; 6, rectus, covered with an elonga- tion from 7, fascia transversalis ; 8, fascia iliaca covering the iliacus muscle ; 9, psoas magnus cut ; 10, iliac artery ; 11, iliac vein ; 12, epigastric artery and its two accompanying veins ; 13, vessels of the spermatic cord, entering the abdo- minal wall at the internal ring. The ring was in this case of small size ; 14, two obturator veins ; 15, the obliterated umbilical artery. The cord, it will be remembered, is not naturally in contact with the abdominal parietes in this situation. Fig. 708. The coverings of this hernia, taking them in the order in which they are successively applied to the protruded viscus, are the following :—The peri- toneal sac and the subserous membrane which adheres to it, the fascia transversalis, the tendon common to the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and the intercolumnar (external spermatic) fascia derived from the margin of the external abdominal ring, together with the superficial fascia and the integuments. With respect to one of the structures enumerated, namely, the common tendon of the two deeper muscles, considerable variety exists as to its disposition in difi'erent cases. In place of being covered by that tendon, the hernia may be found to pass through an opening in its fibres, or to escape beneath it. Cremasteric muscular fibres are met with (rarely, how- ever,) upon this hernia. The spermatic cord is commonly placed behind the outer part of the direct inguinal hernia, especially at the external abdominal ring. It is here that the hernia and the cord in most cases first come together; and 3x2