EPITHELIUM OF THE VILLI. 845 that by means of deep branches of these anastomosing cells opening into the cavity of the lacteal, a channel of communication is established between the lacteal and the surface of the villus. This view has met with some accept- ance from its seeming to offer an explanation of the mode in which particles of oil are conveyed from the intestines into the lacteals ; but it cannot Pig. 590. A B. Fig. 590.—Epithelium op the Intestinal Villus op a Rabbit (from Kolliker). A ?22' B 252 1 A, series of tlie cylindrical epithelial cells separated from a villus; a limiting or cuti- cular membrane or border is seen passing over the free ends of the cells. B, some of the same cells treated with water ; in 1 and 2, and at «, in the left hand series of cells, the striated or porous border is seen ; and at &, in the latter, pellucid drops of mucus which have escaped from the cells. at present be considered as satisfactorily established. The muscular tissue within the villi was first discovered by Brlicke : it consists of a thin stratum of smooth fibres disposed longitudinally round the commencement of the lacteals. Although not always discernible in man, these fibres are distinct in animals ; and in them, on being stimulated, they produce, according to Briicke, a very obvious retraction of the villi. During digestion, the epithelial cells become turbid with minute oil drops in their interior, which obscure their nuclei. The tissue of the villus itself becomes turbid in like manner ; and clear globules may also be observed, both in the epithelial cells and deeper tissue, which, however, there seems reason to believe, are formed by the running together of smaller particles after death. Kolliker and Donders have both observed minute particles of oil in their passage through the striated body. A full bibliography, on the subject of the villi, is given by Teichmann in his work "das Saugadersystem," (1861), pp. 77 et seq.; and the questions at issue are fully discussed in K(5lliker's Gewebelehre, 4th edition, and Henle's System. Anatomic. See also Frey, in Zeitsch. f. Wissensch. Zoologie, vol. xiii. Heidenhain's paper is in Mole- schott's Untersuchungen z. Ifaturlehre, vol. iv. Peculiar epithelial cells with deeply hollowed cup-shaped extremities, have been pointed out by Henle, interspersed among the others. It is yet uncertain whether they are a distinct kind of cell, or only a peculiar condition of the ordinary sort. 3. Glands.—The glandular structures found in the mucous coat of the small intestine are the crypts or follicles of Lieberkiihn, the solitary glands, the patches of Peyer's glands, and Brunner's glands, the last being peculiar to the duodenum. The crypts of Lieberkiihn, the smallest of these glandular structures, are found in every part of the small intestine, between the villi, and surroundiDg the larger glands. They consist of minute tubes, closed at their attached extremity, and placed more or less perpendicularly to the surface, upon