DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. 576 alter their position, in correspondence with the curving downwards of the cephalic end of the embryo. Thus, at the seventh week, there is an angular bend forwards between the hindmost vesicle and the rudimentary spinal cord, the projecting angle (backwards) being named the cervical tuberosity. Another bend, but in the opposite direction, exists between that part of the third vesicle which forms the medulla oblongata, and that which gives rise to the cerebellum. Lastly, a third angle is pro- duced by a bend forwards and downwards in the region of the middle vesicle, from which the corpora quadrigemina are developed, and which forms, at this period, the highest part of the encephalon; whilst the anterior, or first vesicle, is bent nearly at a right angle downwards. Fig. 391. Fig. 39L—Sketches OP THE eaely form of the parts oe the Cerebro-Spinal Axis in the Human Embryo (after Tiede- inann). A, at the seventh week, lateral view ; 1, spinal cord ; 2, medulla oblongata ; 3, cerebellum ; 4, mid- dle vesicle or corpora quadrigemina; 5, 6, 7, first vesicle. B, at the ninth week, posterior view; 1, medulla oblongata; 2, cerebellum; 3, corpora quadrigemina ; 4, 5, tha- lami optici and cerebral hemispheres. C and D, lateral and posterior views of the brain of the human embryo at twelve weeks, a, cerebrum ; 6, corpora quadrigemina; c, cere- bellum ; d, medulla oblongata ; the thalami are now covered by the enlarged hemispheres. E, posterior view of the same brain dissected to show the deeper parts. 1, medulla oblongata; 2, cerebellum; 3, cor- pora quadrigemina; 4, thalami optici; 5, the hemisphere turned aside ; 6, the corpus striatum em- bedded in the hemisphere ; 7, the commencement of the corpus cal- losum. F, the inner side of the right half of the same brain sepa- rated by a vertical median section, showing the central or ventricular cavity. 1, 2, the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, still hollow ; 3, bend at which the pons Varolii is formed ; 4, cerebellum ; 5, lamina (superior cerebellar peduncles) passing up to the corpora quadrigemina : 6, crura cerebri; 7, corpora quadrigemina, still hollow ; 8, third ventricle ; 9, infundibulum ; 10, thala- mus, now solid; 11, optic nerve; 12, cleft leading into the lateral ventricle; 13, commencing corpus callosum. B At an early period of the development of the brain, the anterior primary vesicle undergoes a peculiar change, by which tAvo sets of parts are originated, the first of which corresponds to the cerebral hemispheres, the second to the thalami optici; the middle vesicle remaining single, giving rise to the corpora quadrigemina; and the posterior vesicle, like the first, but at a somewhat later period, serves as the basis of the rudiments of two parts, viz., the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. Thus, out of the three primary vesicles five fundamental parts of the encephalon are formed. The following tabular statement may serve as a synoptical view of the relation