Fig. 373, A.—Lower and Back Part of the 546 Fig. 373. THE CEREBEUM. Posterior and Middle Cornua op the stance of the taenia. Immediately behind the anterior pillars, where they descend, the fornix, which further back rests upon the optic thalami, the velum interpositum alone intervening, has an interval on each side left between it and the groove where the optic thalamus and corpus striatum meet. This interval leads from the lateral ventric'e to the third ventricle,—the space between the thalami and beneath the velum interpositum. The openings of opposite sides, passing downwards and backwards, meet in the middle line below, and thus is produced a passage, single below, but dividing into two branches above somewhat like the letter Y, and forming a communication between the third ventricle and both lateral ventricles. This passage is named the foramen of Monro, or foramen commune anterius. Cerebrum of the Left Side, showing the Lateral Ventricle opened (altered from Hirschfeld and Leveille). ^ 1, V, inner conyolution of the temporal lobe turning round into the convolution of the gyrus fornicatus, and showing on its surface the reticulated structure; 2, cut surface of the cerebral hemisphere ; 3, point of the posterior cornu of tlie lateral ventricle ; 3', eminentia collateralis ; 4, cut surface of the lower and back part of the corpus callosum divided near the middle ; i', placed on the extension of the corpus callosum into the cerebral hemisphere, points by a line to the hippocampus minor in the posterior cornu ; 5, cut edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix passing down at 5', into the hippocampus major and corpus fimbriatum; 6, continuation of the corpus fimbriatum or taenia hippocampi ; 6', pes hippocampi; 7, fascia dentata on the inside of the white sub- Fig. 373, B.—Section op the Hippocampus Major to show the arrangement op the Grey and White Substance (from Mayo). a, white layer on the surface of the hippo- campus ; 6, grey substance which is involuted from the surface of the neighbouriug convolution; c, fascia dentata; d, white reticulated sub- stance of the lower part of the gyrus fornicatus; e, cavity of the lateral ventricle. The posterior crura or pillars of the fornix are the diverging continuations backwards of the two flat lateral bands of which the body is composed. At first they adhere to the under surface of the corpus callosum, then curving outwards, each crus enters the descending cornu of the correspondiug lateral ventricle, and is prolonged as a narrow band of white matter, named tcenia hippocampi or corpus fimbriatum, which is situated on the inner margin of the hippocampus major, and extends to the extremity of that structure. On examining the under surface of the fornix and corpus callosum, there is seen posteriorly the thickened border or pad, and in front of it the diverging