911 LAEYNGOSCOPIC VIEAV OF THE GLOTTIS. of these to the anatomical structure. On thus examining the superior aper- ture, there are seen on each side two rounded elevations, corresponding Fig. 636.—Three Lartn- Fig. 636. Goscopic Views of the Superior Aperture op THE Larynx and Sur- rounding Parts in Dif- ferent States of the Glottis during Life (from Czermak). A, the glottis during the emission of a high note in singing. B, in easy or quiet inhalation of air. C, in the state of widest possible dila- tation as in inhaling a very deep breath. The diagrams A', B', and C, have been added to Czermak's figures to show in horizontal sections of the glottis the position, of the vocal ligaments and arytenoid cartilages in the three several states represented in the other figures. In all the figures, so far as marked, the letters in- dicate the parts as follows, viz.: ^, the base of the tongue ; e, the upper free part of the epiglottis; e', the tubercle or cushion of the epiglottis ; ph, part of the anterior wall of the phai-ynx behind the larynx ; in the margin of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold w, the swelling of the membrane caused by the cartilages of Wrisberg ; s, that of the cartilages of Santorini; a, the tip or summit of the arytenoid cartilages ; cv, the true vocal cords or lips of the rima glot- tidis ; CVS, the superior or false vocal cords ; between them the ventricle of the larynx ; in C, tr is placed on the anterior wall of the receding trachea, and b indicates the com- mencement of the two bronchi beyond the bifurcation which may be brought into view- in this state of extreme dilatation. respectively to the cornicula and the cuneiform cartilages ; while in the middle line in front there is a tumescence of the mucous membrane of the lower part of the epiglottis, enabling that structure to close the aperture more accurately when it is depressed, and named the tubercle or cushion of the epiglottis. The mucous membrane between the arytenoid cartilages is stretched when they are separated, and folded double when they are approximated. (Czermak on the Laryngoscope, translated by the New Sydenham Society.) On looking down through the superior opening of the larynx, the glottis or rima glottidis is seen at some distance below, in the form of a long narrow fissure running from before backwards. It is situated on a level with the lower part of the arytenoid cartilages, and is bounded by the true vocal cordsf two smooth, strong, and straight folds of membrane projecting inwards, with their free edges directed towards the middle line. Above the glottis, another pair of projecting folds is seen, the superior or false vocal cords, which are much thinner and weaker and less projecting than the