THE EYE. 716 Fig. 462. Fig. 462.—Choroid Mem- wlien slireds are remored they curl up always -with the attached surface innermost. Its transpai-ency is not impaired by acids, by boiling in water, or by maceration in alkaUes. In thickness it varies between -j-^J^^-^th and ^J^,-=jth of an inch. At its cii'cumference the membrane breaks up into bundles of fine threads, which are partly continued into the front of the iris, forming the "pillars of the iris," and partly into the fore part of the choroid and sclerotic coats. It is lined with an epithehal covering, which resembles that on serous membranes, consisting of a single layer of flat poly- gonal transparent cells with distinct nuclei Blood-vessels and nerves.—In a state of health the cornea is not provided with blood-vessels, except at the circumference, where they form very fine capillary loops and accompany the neives. The existence of lymphatics has not been satisfactorily ascertained. The nerves of the cornea are very numerous, according to Schlemm.* Derived from the ciliary nerves they enter the fore part of the sclerotic,, and are from twenty-four to thirty-six in number. Continued into the fibrous part of the cornea, they retain their dark outline for ith to ^^th of an inch, and then becoming trans- parent, ramify and form a network through the laminated structure. MIDDLE TUXIC OF THE EYEBALL. This coat consists of two parts, one a large posterior segment—the choroid, reaching as far as the cornea, and formed chiefly of blood-vessels and pig- mentary material; the other, a small anterior muscular part—the iris. Between these and connected with both is situated the white ring of the cilisLiy muscle. BRAXE AXD IrIS EXPOSED by the removal of the Sclerotic axd Corxea (after Zinn). | a, one of the segments of the sclerotic thrown back; h, ciliary muscle and Mga- meut; c, ii-is ; e, one of the ciliary nerves ; /, one of the vasa vortieosa or choroidal veins. THE CHOEOID COAT. The choroid coat of the eye (tunica choro- idea s. vasculosa) is a dark brown membrane lying between the scle- rotic and the retina. It reaches forwards to the ciUaiy ligament, or nearly to the cornea, where it ends by a series of plaits or folds named ciliary processes, disposed in a circle projecting inwards at the back of the cuxumferential poi-tion of the iris. At the hinder part, where the tunic is thickest, the optic nerve is transmitted through a circular opening. The outer surface is rough, and is connected to the sclerotic by loose connective tissue (lamhia fusca of * Berl. Encycl. Wort. art. Augapfel, Vol. iv. p. 22.