588 THE CRANIAL NERVES. in distinct foramina of the cranium, others are grouped together in one foramen. The numerous small olfactory nerves descend into the nose through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; the optic nerve pierces the root of the lesser wirg of the sphenoid bone, the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, with the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, pass through the Fig. 399. Fig. 399.—Internal View op the Base of the Skull, showing the places of exit of THE Cranial Nerves. The dura mater is left in great part within the base of the skull; the tentorium is removed and the venous sinuses are opened. On the left side a small portion of the roof of the orbit has been removed to show the relation of certain nerves at the cavernous sinus and in the sphenoidal fissure. The roots of the several cranial nerves have been divided at a short distance inside the foramina of the dura mater through which they respectively pass. I, the bnlb of the olfactory nerve lying over the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; II, the optic nerves, that of the left side cut short; III, placed on the pituitary body, indicates the common ocnlo-motor nerve ; IV, the trochlear nerve ; V, is placed on the left side opposite to the middle of the three divisions of the trigeminus, which, together with the ganglion and greater root, have been exposed by opening up the dura mater ; on the right side the greater root is seen ; VI, placed below the foramen of exit of the abducent ocular ; VII, placed on the upper part of the petrous bone oppo- site the entrance of the facial and auditory nerves into the meatus auditorius internus ; VIII, placed on the petrous bone outside the jugular foramen opposite the place of exit of the three divisions of the eighth pair of nerves ; IX, placed upon the basilar part of the occipital bone in front of the hypoglossal nerve as it passes through the anterior condyloid foramen. On the left side at the cavernous sinus, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth nerves are seen keeping towards the outer side, while the sixth nerve is deeper and close to the internal carotid artery. The explanation of the i:em,ai»ing references in this figure will be found at p. 461.