7di THE EYE. the surface, but in the foetal lens throughout, and towards the centre of the lens in the adult, they are three in number, diverging from each other like rays at equal angles of 120° The lines at opposite poles have an intermediate position (not being over one another) : they are the edges of planes or septa projecting vertically inwards to the centre of the lens, and receiving the ends of the lens fibres which are collected upon them. Fig. m. Fig. 484.—Outlines illustrating thk Course of the Fibres in the Fcetal Crystalline Lens. I This diagram represents the typical or more simple state of the fibres in the full- grown foetal or infantile condition ; the three dotted lines radiating at equal angles> 120° from the centre indicate the position of the intersecting planes, where they reach the surface ; the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, indicate certain fibres selected arbitrarily at equal distances in one-sixth part of the lens to show their course fiora the front to the back ; A, the anterior surface ; B, the posterior surface ; C, the lateral aspect : in these several figures, for the sake of clearness, a few lines only are introduced into the upper third, while in the lower two-thirds a greater number are marked ; but no attemptis made to represent the number existing in nature ; the parts of the dotted line marked c, are on a level with the centre of the several lenses. Fig. 485.—Front Yiew op the Fibrous Structure op the Adult Lens (from Sappey after Arnold). - In this figure more numerous planes of intersection of the fibres are shown than in fig. 484. Strxjotuee.—When the lens has been dried, or hardened by immer- sion in spirit, boiling water, or other fluid capable of rendering it firm and white, concentric laminae, nar- rowing to a point at the poles, may be detached from it. The lamiufe are further composed of microscopic fibres, which adhere together by wavy or slightly serrated margins. The lens is albuminous in its composition, and is devoid of blood-vessels ; and at the planes of intersection a finely granular homogeneous material takes the place of the fibres. Fig. 485.