DEEP AND POSTERIOE PARTS OF THE ABDOMEN. 1075 removal of tlie surrounding adipose tissue not to injure their substance, which is easily torn (p, 939) : after they have been carefully cleaned, these bodies may be examined by incisions into their substance. The aorta and inferior vena cava are then to be dissected, and also the common and external iliac arteries and veins, together with the kidneys and ureters. The branches of the aorta to be examined are the inferior phrenic, the coeliac axis, the superior mesenteric, the supra-renal, the renal, the spermatic, the inferior mesenteric, the origins of the four pairs of lumbar arterieSj and, continuing the direction of the aorta from its point of bifurca- tion, the middle sacral artery. The two common iliac arteries and veins must at this time be cleaned, also the ureters ; and the dissection may be carried down along the external iliac vessels, as far as the origin of the epi- gastric and circumflex iliac arteries ; in doing which the relations of the iliac arteries and veins will be carefully observed (pp. 418, 473, and 477). The position and relations of the kidneys are now to be examined, and more particularly the position of the renal artery, renal vein, and ureter, as they enter the gland (p. 926). The kidneys having been removed from the body, are to be opened by a transverse vertical section, to exhibit the pelvis, calyces, and pyramids, the cortical and internal tubular substances, and the Malpighian glomeruli: the fibrous tunic which invests the kidney is also to be observed. The receptaculum chyli or commencement of the thoracic duct will be found beneath the right crus of the diaphragm (p. 487), as also the commencement of the vena azygos in connection with some of the lumbar veins (p. 469). 7. Upper and Fosterior Wall of the Ahdomen.—The diaphragm is now to be dissected (p. 243). Anteriorly will be found its attachments to the six lower ribs interdigitating with those of the transversalis muscle ; poste- riorly will be found the two crura and the ligamenta arcuata externa and interna ; while the fibres passing from all those parts will be traced to their connection with the central tendon ; and the openings for the aorta, oeso- phagus, and vena cava inferior will be examined. The surface of the psoas magnus muscle is next to be cleaned, as well as that of the psoas parvus lying superficial to it (if it be present) (p. 272) ; and, emerging from the fibres of the psoas magnus, the genito-crural nerve will be found and followed downwards. The outer nerves of the lumbar plexus will be observed principally on the outer and inner aspects of the psoas muscles (p. 660). The fibres of these muscles are to be dissected away from the nerves of the lumbar plexus. la addition to the communicating branches of the plexus, there will be observed, proceeding from the anterior division of the first lumbar nerve, the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, often united into one ; from the second lumbar nerve the external cutaneous and genito- crural nerves ; from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves together, the anterior crural and the obturator nerves ; and, lastly, the lumbo-sacral cord, formed by the union of a part of the fourth with the whole of the fifth nerve (p. 658). On the bodies of the vertebrse will be found the lumbar part of the chain of sympathetic ganglia ; the branches of communication between which and the spinal nerves are to be dissected (p. 696). At this time the dissectors ought to revert to the arrangement of the posterior part of the transversalis muscle. This they will find to be con- tinued into an aponeurosis which is connected behind with three layers ; of these the most posterior is the fascia lumborum observed in the dissection of the back, the second lit s in front of the erector spin« muscle, and the foremost is a much thinner membrane placed in front of the quadratus 4 A 2