FIBRES OF THE LENS. 735 The.^i^6res of the lens are somewhat flattened threads, about -= ^L^th of an inch wide, and are directed over the edge of the lens from the planes on one surface to those on the other. In their course between the opposite surfaces, no fibre passes from pole to pole, but the fibres beginning in the pole or centre of one surface terminate in the end of a plane on the opposite sur- face, and vice versa ; the intervening fibres passing to their corresponding places between. Some of the superficial fibres possess transparent nuclei, at nearly regular intervals. In the more superficial fibres of the growing lens the nuclei occupy very regularly the equatorial part. At their ends, where the fibres meet the planes, they are soft and indistinct; and at the Fig. 486.—Magnified View of the Fibres OF THE Crystalline Lens. A, longitudinal view of the fibres of the lens from the ox, showing the serrated edges. B, transverse section of the fibres of the lens from the human eye (from KoUiker). longitudinal view of a few of the fibies from the equatorial region of the human lens (from Henle). ^ The most of the fibres are seen edgeways and towards 1, present the swellings and nuclei of the "nuclear zone ; " at 2, the flattened sides of two fibres are seen. middle part, where they are placed on the margin of the lens, they are widest and best marked. The fibres are six-sided prisms, flattened in the plane of the lamina in which they lie. The edges are bevelled and sinuous ; they are very regularly toothed at the edges in fishes and some other animals Fig. 487. Fig, 487.—Cells connecting the Lens with ITS Capsule (from Bowman). ^ Fig. 486. for more perfect junction with those in the same plane ; but in man and mammals, the edge is only slightly jagged or irregularly serrated. Changes in the lens by age.—In the/ceius, the lens is nearly spherical: it has a slightly reddish colour, is not perfectly transparent, and is softer, and more readily broken down than at a more advanced age.