THE NOSE. 778 are pale, and finely granular in texture, firmly adherent one to another, and have oval corpuscles on their surface. The greater part of the mucous membrane of the nasal fossae is provided with nerves of common sensibility, derived from branches of the fifth pair: these have already been described at pp. 599, 603 and 604. Blood-vessels.—The arteries and veins of the nose are derived from nume- rous sources : those of the interior form rich plexuses of capillaries in the lining membrane. The description of the arteries will be found at pp. 350, 356, 361 and 362 ; that of the veins at pp. 456 and 464. DEVELOPMENT OF THE NOSE. The organ of smell, as was first pointed out by Y. Baer, owes its origin, like the primary auditory vesicle and the crystalline lens of the eye, to a depression of the integument. This depression, the primai7 olfactory groove, is at first encircled by a uniform wall, and is unconnected with the mouth. This stage has been observed by Kblliker in the human embryo of four weeks. Soon, however, by the unequal growth of the surrounding parts, a groove is formed, descending from the pit and passing into the mouth. Thus the middle frontal process is isolated between the grooves of opposite sides, while the lateral frontal process separates the nostril from the eye (p. 65). The maxillary lobes, growing forwards from behind the eyes, complete the boundaries of the nostrils, which then open into the fore part of the mouth. Kolliker observes this stage in the latter half of the second month. The palate subsequently grows inwards to the middle line, as has been elsewhere stated, and separates the nasal from the buccal cavity; leaving only the extremely minute communication of the incisor foramen. Meanwhile, with the growth of the face, the nasal fossae deepen, and the turbinated bones make their appearance as processes from their walls. Observations are still wanting to determine whether the olfactory nerves are developed from the bulbs, and have thus a cerebral origin, or are separately formed from peripheral blastema like all other nerves, with the exception of the optic. Fig. 537.* ABO Fig. 537.*—Views op the Head of Human Embryoes, illusteating the Development OF the Nose. A, Head of an embryo of three weeks (from Ecker). \o 1, anterior cerebral vesicle; 2, middle vesicle ; 3, nasal or middle frontal process ; 4, superior maxillary process ; 5, eye ; 6, inferior maxillary process or first visceral plate, and below it the first cleft; 7, 8, and 9, second, third, and fourth plates and clefts. B, Head of an embryo of about five weeks (from Ecker). f 1, 2, 3, and 5, the same parts as in A ; 4, the external nasal or lateral frontal process, inside which is the nasal groove ; 6, the superior maxillary process ; 7, the inferior maxilla ; x , the tongue seen within the mouth ; 8, the first branchial cleft which becomes the outer part of the meatus auditorius externus. C, View of the head of an embryo of eight weeks seen from below, the lower jaw having been removed (from Kolliker). * 71, the external nasal apertures ; i, intermaxillary or incisor process, and to the outer side of this the internal nasal aperture ; m, one of the palatal processes of the upper jaw, which advancing inwards from the sides form the partition between the mouth and nose ; V, common cavity of the nose, mouth, and pharynx.