Fig 465.—A SMALL PART OP THE THE IRIS. 719 Fig. 465. The pupil is nearly circular in form, and is placed a little to the inner side of the centre of the iris. It varies in size according to the contraction or relaxation of the muscular fibres, and this variation ranges from g-^^th to -|rd of an inch. The movements of the iris regulate the quantity of light admitted to the eyeball, and are associated with convergence of the optic axes, and with the focal adjustment of the eye. Structure.—Fibrous and muscular tissues form the framework of the iris, and pigment is scattered through the texture. In front and behind is placed a distinct layer of pigment cells. It is still matter of discussion whether or not in the adult a delicate epithelium is continued from the margin of the cornea over the front of the iris : it is admitted to exist in childhood. The Jihrous stroma consists of fibres of connective tissue directed radiat- ingly towards the pupil, and circularly at the circumference ; these, inter- weaving with one another, form a net-like web which is less open towards the surfaces. The muscular fibre is of the non-striated kind, and is disposed as a ring (sphincter) around the pupil, and as rays (dilatator) from the centre to the circumference. Irts, showing the Muscular Structure (from KoUiker). ^ The specimen is from the albino- rabbit, and has been treated with acetic acid : a, the sphincter muscle at the margin of the pupil ; b, fas- ciculi of the dilatator muscle ; c, connective tissue with nuclear cells rendered clear by the acid. The sphincter is the flat narrow band on the posterior surface of the iris, close to the pupil, and is about 4-^Qth of an inch wide. At the edge of the pupil the fibres are close together, but at the peripheral border they are separated, and form less com- plete rings. The dilatator, less apparent than the sphincter, begins at the ciliarj?- or outer margin of the iris, and its fibre'=», collected into bundles, are directed inwards between the vessels and nerves, converging towards the pupil, and forming a net-work by their intercommunications. At the pupil they blend with the sphincter, some reaching near to its inner margin. Pigmentary elements.—In the substance of the iris anteriorly and through- out its thickness are variously-shaped and ramified pigment cells like those in the choroid membrane. The pigment contained in them is yellow, or of lighter or darker shades of brown, according to the colour of the eye. On the fore part of the iris is a thin stratum of rather oval or rounded cells with granular ramified offsets (an epithelial layer—Kolliker). At the posterior surface is a covering of dark pigment—the uvea of authors ; this is con-