718 THE EYE. with cliiefly a longitudinal direction ; and the ramified cells, fewer in number, are devoid of pigment towards the free extremities of the folds. The pigm-entary layer (choroidal epithelium, membrane of the black pig- ment) forms a thin dark lining to the whole inner surface of the choroid and Fjg- 464. Fig. 464.—Pigment Cells of the Middle Coat (after Kblliker). A, small portion of the choroid with the stillate or rarnified cells which form its stroma. B, pig- ment cells, which cover the inner surface of the choroid ; a, these cells seen from the surface, of hexagonal form, and showing nuclei in their inte- rior ; h, three of the same cells viewed edgeways ; c, molecular pigment, which fills the cells. the iris. As far forwards as the ciliary pro- cesses it consists of only a single layer of flat six-sided cells, applied edge to edge like mosaic work. Each cell contains a nucleus and more or less dense molecular contents, accumulated in greatest abundance towards the circumference of the cell, and partly obscuring the nucleus. On the ciliary pro- cesses and the iris the pigment is several lay- ers deep, and the cells, smaller and. rounded, are so filled with dark pigment as to cover up the nucleus. In the eye of the albino pigment is absent both from the hexagonal cells and the ramiGed corpuscles of the choroidal tunic. It may be mentioned that in fishes, and in many mammals, including the ox and the sheep, the eyes of which are often selected for dissection, the choroid, instead of being uniformly lined with dark pigment, presents on a greater or less extent of its back part a silvery layer named tapeium. The tapetum in ruminants consists of tendinous fibres, and in carnivora and fishes of cells, filled, in the carnivora, with granular matter (Leidig), in fishes with slender rods. On its inner surface is the tunic of Enysch, as well as the layer of hexagonal cells, which, however, is here destitute of pigment. THE IRIS. The iris is the contractile and coloured membrane which is seen behind the transparent cornea, and gives the tint to the eye. In its centre it is perforated by an aperture—the pupil. By its circumferential border, which is nearly circular, the iris is connected with the choroid, the cornea, and the ciliary ligament and muscles : the free inner edge is the boundary of the pupil, and is constantly altering its dimen- sions during life. The iris measures ^ an inch across, and, in a state of rest, ffom the circumference to the pupil about -ith of an inch. Its surfaces look forwards and backwards. The anterior, variously coloured in different eyes, is marked by waving lines converging towards the pupil, near which they join in a series of irregular elevations; and, internal to these, other finer lines pass to the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with dark pigment ; and this being removed, there is seen at the margin of the pupil a narrow circular band of fibres (sphincter muscle of the pupil), with which lines radiating inwards are blended.