SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ARTERIES. 1012 avoided, to he opened with, a lancet, except in a part which is not con- tiguous to the artery. If two arteries are present, instead of the ordinary single trunk, they are commonly close together ; but it now and then happens that an interval exists between them—one being in the usual situation of the brachial, the other nearer, in difi'erent degrees in different cases, to tha inner condyle of the humerus. There is on this account an additional reason for precaution when venesection is to be performed ; and care is the more necessary as the second artery may be immediately under the vein without the interposition of fascia [plate 41]. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE COMMON ILIAC AKTERIES. The common iliac artery (p. 418), extending in a line from the left side of the umbilicus towards the middle of Poupart's ligament, and being placed at its commencement on a level with the highest part of the iliac crest, may be approached in an operation, by dividing the abdominal muscles to a sufficient extent in the iliac region, and a little above this part of the abdo- men. The incisions might be made, beginning about Poupart's ligament, to the outer side of its middle, and running parallel with that structure towards the anterior superior spine of the hip-bone, thence curving for a couple of inches towards the umbilicus. In this way the artery will be ap- proached from below, but, if a tumour extends along the external iliac artery, this plan of operation would be objectionable, for the swelling itself, and, it may be, the adhesion of the peritoneum to its surface, would be sources of serious difficulty. Should the aneurism extend upwards in the abdomen it will be best to approach the artery from the side, or rather from above,—not from below. The essential part of the operation, so far as the abdominal muscles are concerned, is, that they should be divided to the extent of five or six inches at the side of the abdomen, beginning about two inches above the level of the umbilicus and ending lower than the iliac spine,'the incision being curved outwards towards the lumbar region. Sir P. Crampton, in an operation to tie this artery, divided the muscles from the end of the lowest rib, straight down nearly to the iliac crest, and thence forward a little above the border of the bone as far as its spine. * This plan is well devised for the object. The fascia behind the muscles (fascia transversalis) is to be cut through with care, and the peritoneum is to be raised from that and the iliac fascia, as well as from the subjacent membrane (sometimes containing fat) which is interposed between the serous and the fibrous membranes. With the peritoneum the ureter will be raised, as this adheres to it. The artery will be seen on the last lumbar vertebra ; and, on the right side of the body, large veins will be in view in close connection with it, viz., both common iliac veins, and the commencement of the lower vena cava [plate 55]. It will be remembered, that in some cases (with- out transposition of the viscera, as well as with that condition) the iliac veins are joined on the left instead of the right side ; and that in another small class of cases the junction of those veins is delayed, so to say [plate 58, figs. 1, 2, 3]. The effect of either of these conformations of the venous system would be to give to the artery on the left side much more than the usual complication with veins. Lastly, the thin subserous membrane covering the aitery is divided without any difficulty to admit the passage of the ligature. * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xvi.