THE TEETH. 798 secondary cells with a single one in a deeper layer of the pulp; and the constricted or moniliform appearance of the tubuli already mentioned as having been seen by some observers in growing or even in mature teeth, is thought to depend on an imperfect Fig. 556. Fig. 556.—Vertical Section through the Point of a Human Fcetal Milk Tooth, in WHICH THE formation OF THE DeNTINE AND EnAMEL HAS RECENTLY COMMENCED (from KoUiker after Lent), 3 a, dental pnlp with blood-vessels; 6, the dentine cells upon its surface ; c, the cap of dentine which has been formed on the summit, the tubuli being shown as proloDgations from the tapering extremities of the dentine cells; d, the enamel begun to be deposited ; c, membranous layer, membrana prseformativa of Huxley. coalescence of the nuclei. In the teeth of young animals, Tomes has noticed the division of the cells and their subsequent coalescence to form the tubes, but he has failed to recognise the existence of primary cells including secondary ones. Lent finds that the superficial elongated cells of the dentinal pulp send off from their free ends long slender processes which form the tubes of the dentine, and which divide into branches, and anastomose together in the same manner as the tubes. Kolliker, who confirms Lent's observations, thinks it probable that a single cell may generate a tube in its whole length; at the same time a cell is sometimes constricted or incom- pletely divided into two, the more superficial of which becomes narrowed and length- ened into the dentinal tube. With respect to the actual formation of the hard substance of the tooth, two views have been entertained ; Kolliker conceiving it to proceed from the calcification of a soft matrix excreted from the dentinal cells and their thin prolongations already referred to; whereas Waldeyer, who denies the existence of a preformative mem- brane, maintains that the formation of the dentine consists in the conversion of a part of the protoplasm of the dentinal cells into a collagenous substance, which is subse- quently calcified, while the remaining part of the cell protoplasm continues in the form of soft fibres to occupy the interior of the tube surrounded by the calcified sub- stance. (Op. cit. p. 189.) When the cap of dentine is examined in the newly-formed state, besides the ordinary dentine, globules are commonly observed; but if diluted hydrochloric acid is added, the globules disappear. Hence Czermak concludes that earthy impregnation proceeds for a time in a globular form, and that the after- presence of globular dentine is the result of arrested development; perfect develop- ment leading to the filling up of the spaces between the globules, and to the pro- duction of a uniformly compact tissue. The enamel appears in the form of prismatic fibres which, until the point was con- tested by Huxley, have been generally supposed to be produced by calcification of the cells of the enamel-membrane, with which they correspond in figure. An enamel fibre may be formed by a single cell growing in length, while its previously formed