RETINA OR FERVOUS TUNIC. the clioroid. They are somewhat flattened in form, are partly embedded in grooves on the inner surface of the sclerotic, and communicate occasionally with each other before supplying the cornea and entering the ciliary muscle. When the sclerotic is Fig. 473.—Distribution op JSTerves in the Ikis (fi-om Kolliker). so The preparation was taken from the eye of au albino rabbit, and was treated with soda, a, smaller branches of the ciliary nerves ad- vancing from the choroid ; b, loops of union between them at the mar- gin of the iris ; c, arches of union in the iris ; c', finer network in the inner part ; d, some of the termi- nations of single nerve filaments in the outer part of the iris ; c, sphincter pupillse muscle. Fig. 473. carefully stripped from the subjacent structures, these nerves are seen lying on the surface of the choroid. Within the ciliary muscle the nerves subdivide minutely, a few being lost in its substance, but the greater number pass on to the iris. In the iris the nerves follow the course of the blood-vessels, dividing into branches, which com- municate with one another as far as the pupil. In the iris they soon lose their dark outline, and their mode of termination is not ascertained. EETINA OR NERVOUS TONIC. The retina is a delicate almost pulpy membrane, which contains the ter- minal part of the optic nerve. It lies within the choroid coat, and rests on the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour. It extends forwards nearly to the outer edge of the ciliary processes of the choroid, where it ends in- a finely indented border—ora serrata. From this border there is continued Fig. 474. Fig. 474.—The Posterior Half op the Retina op the Left Eye viewed FROM before (after Henle). f s, the cut edge of the sclerotic coat; ch, the choroid ; r, the retina : in the interior at the middle the macula lutea with the depression of the fovea centralis is represented by a slight oval shade ; towards the left side the light spot indicates the colliculus or eminence at the entrance of the optic nerve, from the centre of which the' arteria centralis is seen spreading its branches into the retina, leaving the part occupied by the macula comparatively free. onwards a thin layer of transparent •nucleated cells (not nerve elements) of an elongated or cylindrical form, constituting the pars ciliaris retinae, which reaches as far as the tips of the ciliary processes, and there gradually disappears. The thickness of the retina dimuiishes from behind forwards. In the fresh eye it is translucent and of a light pink colour ; but after death it soon becomes opaque, and this change is most marked under the action of