575 FOKMATION OF THE ENCEPHALON. THE ENCEPHALON". The brain is originally not to be distinguished from the spinal cord, being in fact the anterior portion of the medullary tube. It is soon altered in form, however, by the expansion of its walls in certain parts, while others enlarge in a less degree, and it then presents the appearance of a series of three cerebral vesicles, usually designated by embryologists the 'primary cerebral vesicles. Fig. 389.—Sketches of the Primitive Parts OF the Human Brain (from Koliiker). 1, 2, and 3 are from a human embryo of about seven weeks. 1, view of the whole embryo from behind, the brain and spinal cord exposed ; 2, the posterior, and 3, the lateral view of the brain removed from the body ; h, the anterior part of the first primary vesicle or cerebral hemisphere (prosencephalon) ; i, the posterior part of the same vesicle (dien- cephalon) ; i', the lower part of the same ; m, the middle primary vesicle (mesencephalon) ; c, the cerebellum or upper part of the third primary vesicle (epencephalon) ; m o, the lower part of the third primary vesicle or medulla oblongata. The figure 3 illustrates the several curves which take place in the development of the parts from the primitive medullary tube. In 4, a lateral view is given of the brain of a human embryo of three months : the enlargement of the cerebral hemisphere has covered in the optic thalami, leaving the tubercula quadrigemina, m, apparent. The changes which take place in the growth of the brain were first elaborately described by Tiedemann ; they have been investigated by Yon Baer, Bischoflf, Remak, Koliiker, and others, and have recently received additional elucidation from the researches of Peichert. (Tiedemann, " Anatomic und Bildungs-geschichte des Gehirns," Nuremberg, 1816; Reichert, "Bau des Menschlichen Gehirns," Leipzig, 1861; F. Schmidt, " Beitrage z. Entwick. des Gehirns," in Zeitschr. f. Wissen. Zool. 1862 ; Koliiker, Entwicklungsgeschichte, 1861.) Development of the primary vesicles.—The anterior, ov first vesicle, is the part from which are developed the third ventricle, the optic thalami, the corpora striata, and the cerebral hemispheres. The middle or second vesicle, forms the corpora quadrigemina above, and the crura cerebri below,—its cavity remaining as the Sylvian aqueduct. The posterior or third vesicle continues incomplete above for some time, in so far as relates to its nervous substance. At length its anterior portion is closed over and forms the cerebellum above, whilst in its under part the pons Yarolii is produced. The posterior portion, on the other hand, continues open on its dorsal aspect, and forms the medulla oblongata and fourth ventricle. Fig. 390.—Longitudinal Section of the Fig. 390. Cranial Cavity of the Human Embryo at FOUR WEEKS (from Koliiker). 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, mark the depressions in the cranial wall which contain respectively the cerebral hemispheres, the thalami, the corpora quadrigemina, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata ; in 1, at o, the depression of the eye, and at o', the optic nerve is seen ; in 5, at a u, the primary auditory vesicle ; p, process from the pharjnx, supposed by Eathke to be con- nected with the formation of the pituitary body or hypophysis cerebri; ^, t, middle cranial septum or tentorium. These three vesicles, at first arranged in a straight line one before the other, soon