937 MINUTE DISTRIBUTION OF EENAL BLOODVESSELS. and Hyrtl consider that they take origin in the capillary network of the zone at the base of the pyramids (" neutral zoue "). Fig. 659.—Diagram showing the Relation of the Fig. 659. Malpighian Body to the Urinifkrous Ducts and Bloodvessels (after Bowman). a, one of the interlobular arteries ; a', afferent artery- passing into the glomerulus ; m, vascular tuft formed within the glomerulus : c, capsule of the Malpighian body, forming the termination of and continuous with t, the uriniferous tube ; e', e', efferent vessels which sub- divide in the plexus p, surrounding the tube, and finally terminate in the branch of the renal vein e. Small veins, arising by numerous venous radicles from the capillary network of the kid- ney, are seen near the surface of the gland, arranged so as to leave between them minute spaces, which appear nearly to correspond with the bases of the so-called pyramids of Ferrein. These vessels, some of which have a stellate arrangement {stellulWy Verheyen), joined by numerous branches from the fibrous coat of the kidney, end in larger veins, which again Fig. 660. Fig. 660.—Longitu- dinal Section of a Part of the Tubu- lar Substance and THE adjacent COR- TICAL Substance of the Kidney (from Southey). The bloodvessels have been minutely in- jected, and the figure is designed principally to show the origin of the vasa recta. A A, ascending arteries di- vided longitudinally ; C V, cortical veins; A a, transverse section of anastomotic arch ; m, Malpighian bodies ; E, vasa recta ; M V, medullary veins. unite into arches round the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi. Here they receive the veins of the pyra- mids which com- mence in a beauti- ful plexus round the orifices of the tubuli on the surface of the papillae. Venous trunks then proceed, in company with the arteries, through the cortical envelope between the pyramids, to the sinus of the kidney. Joining together, they escape from the hilus, and ultimately form a single