THE EAR. 756 ment. From this point the canal makes two turns and a half round the central pillar (from left to right in the right ear, and in the opposite direction in the left ear), and ends by an arched and closed extremity called the cupola, which forms the apex of the cochlea. The first coil, being much the widest in its curve and composed of the largest portion of the tube, nearly hides the second turn from view ; and, bulging somewhat into the tympanum, forms the round elevation on the inner wall of that cavity called the promontory. Fig. 511. ' Fig. 512. Fig, 511.—Diagrammatic View op the Canal of the Cochlea laid open. | 1, modiolus or central pillar ; 2, placed on three turns of the lamina spiralis ; 3, scala tympani; 4, scala vestibuli. Fig. 512.—View op the Osseous Cochlea divided through the Middle (from Arnold), f 1, central canal of the modiolus ; 2, lamina spiralis ossea ; 3, scala tympani ; 4, scala vestibuli ; 5, porous substance of the modiolus near one of the sections of the canalis spiralis modioli. The modiolus (columella cochleae) forms the central pillar or axis round which turn the spiral tube and the spiral lamina. It is much thickest within the first turn of the cochlea, and rapidly diminishes in size in the succeeding parts. The outer surface is dense, being, in fact, composed of the walls of the spiral tube ; but the centre is soft and spongy as far as the last half coil, and is pierced by many small canals for the passage of the nerves and vessels to the lamina spiralis : one of these canals, larger than the rest {canalis centralis modioli), runs from the base through the centre of the modiolus. The lamina spiralis ossea is a thin, flat plate, growing from and winding round the modiolus, and projecting into the spiral tube, so as to divide it partly into two. Its free margin, which gives attachment in the recent state to the membranous septum, or zone, does not reach farther than about half of the distance between the modiolus and the outer wall of the spiral tube. The osseous lamina terminates close to the apex of the cochlea in a hook-like process (hamulus), which partly bounds the helicotrema. The lamina is thin and dense towards its free margin ; but near the modiolus it is composed of two dense outer plates enclosing a more open and spongy structure, in which are numerous small canals, continuous, but running at right angles with the canals in the centre of the modiolus. In these the nerves and vessels are lodged : they terminate on the inferior or tympanic aspect of the lamina, and the line of their orifices forms the tractus foraminosus spiralis. Winding round the modiolus, close to the lamina spiralis, is a small canal, named by Rosenthal the canalis spiralis modioli. The scalce in the osseous cochlea are two in number, distinguished as the scala tympani and scala vestibuli. The scala tympani, the portion of the tube on the basal side of the lamina spiralis, commences at the fenestra rotunda, where in the recent state it is