755 THE OSSEOUS COCHLEA. circular canal arcTies horizontally outwards, and opens by two distinct orifices into tlie upper and back part of the vestibule. This canal is shorter than either of the other two: its ampulla is at the outer end, just above the fenestra ovalis. Fig. 509. Fig, 509.—Views op a Cast of the Interior of the Labyrinth (from Henle). | Such casts may easily be made in fusible metal, aud give a very correct view of the form of the different parts of the labyrinthic cavity. A, view of the left labyrinth from the outer side; B, the right labyriuth from the inner side ; C, the left labyrinth from above ; s, the superior, p, the posterior, and e, the external semicircular canals ; a, their several ampullse; re, fovea hemi-elliptica of the vestibule ; rs, fovea hemispherica ; av, aqueduct of the vestibule ; fo, fenestra ovalis ; fr, fenestra I'otunda ; c, the coiled tube of the cochlea ; c', the first part of the tube towards the base with the tractus forami- nosus spiralis. The cochlea is the most anterior division of the internal ear. When the dense bony substance, in which it lies embedded, is picked away, the cochlea presents the form of a blunt cone, the base of which is turned towards the internal auditory meatus, whilst the apex is directed outwards, with an inclination forwards and downwards, and is close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. It measures about a quarter of an inch in length, and the same in breadth at the base. The osseous part of the cochlea con- sists of a gradually tapering spiral tube, the inner wall of which is formed by the central columm, or modiolus, round which it Fig. 510. winds, and which is partially divided along its whole extent by a spiral lamina projecting into it from the modiolus. From this osseous spiral lamina membranous structures are stretched across to the outer wall of the tube, and thus are completely separated two passages or scalse, one on each side of the spiral lamina, which communicate one with the other by only a small open- ing, named helicotremaj placed at the apex of the cochlea. Fig. 510,—Osseous Labyrinth of the Barn-Owl (Strix Flammea) (from Breschet), f 1, semicircular canals; 2, vestibule ; 3, cochlea in the form of a short sti-aight tube. That the cochlea is justly to be considered as an elongated tube, coiled spirally on the modiolus, is illustrated by the simple pouch-Uke form of the rudimentary cochlea of birds. The spiral canal of the cochlea is about an inch and a half long, aud about the tenth of an inch in diameter in its widest part at the commence- 3 D 2