686 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. ulnar nerve, and the supinator longus, which is supplied by the musculo- spiral. Muscles of the, hand.—^The abductor and opponens pollicis, the outer half of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the two outer lumbricales muscles, are supplied by the median nerve : all the other muscles receive their nerves from the ulnar. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Posterior muscles of the hip and thigh.—The gluteus maximus is mainly supplied by the small sciatic nerve, and receives at its upper part a separate branch from the sacral plexus. The gluteus medius and minimus, together with the tensor vaginae femoris, are supplied by the gluteal nerve. The pyri- formis, gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris receive special branches from the sacral plexus. The hamstring muscles are supplied by branches from the great sciatic nerve. Anterior and internal muscles of the thigh.—The psoas muscle is supplied by separate twigs from the lumbar nerves. The iliacus, quadriceps extensor femoris, and sartorius are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. The adductor muscles, the obturator externus and the pectineus, are supplied by the obturator nerve, but the adductor magnus likewise receives a branch from the great sciatic, and the pectineus sometimes has a branch from the anterior crural. Anterior muscles of the leg and foot.—The muscles in front of the leg, together with the extensor brevis digitorum, are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The peroneus longus and hrevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Posterior muscles of the leg.—The gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus, and popliteus are supplied by branches from the internal popliteal nerve ; the deep muscles, viz., the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and tibialis posticus, derive their nerves from the posterior tibial. Plantar muscles.—The flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor and flexor brevis pollicis, and the two inner lumbricales, are supplied by the internal plantar nerve ; all the others, including the flexor accessorius and interossei, are supplied by the external plantar nerve. III. SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The nerves of the sympathetic system (nervus intercostalis ; nerves of organic life—Bichat) are distributed in general to all the internal viscera, but some organs receive their nerves also from the cerebro-spinal system, as the lungs, the heart, and the upper and lower parts of the alimentary canal. It appears from physiological researches to be also the special province of the sympathetic system to supply nerves to the coats of the blood-vessels. This division of the nervous system consists of a somewhat complicated collection of ganglia, cords and plexuses, the parts of which may, for con- venience, be classified in three groups, viz., the principal gangliated cords, the great prevertebral plexuses with the nerves proceeding from them, and the ganglia of union with cranial nerves. The gangliated cords consist of two series, in each of which the ganglia are connected by intervening cords. These cords are placed symmetrically in