CORTICAL AN"D INTERNAL GREY SUBSTANCES 661 In the innermost grey laj'cr the cells have similar characters, but often contain pigmentary matter, 'fubular fibres exist throughout: those of one set run parallel with the surface, and at certain depths are more densely aggregated, so as to form the before-mentioned white layers: they are also present in the intervening grey strata, but there they are wider apart. The manner in which they begin and end is not known; it seems not improbable, however, that they are dependencies of the commissural system of fibres. These stratified fibres, if they might be so called, are intersected by another set of tubular fibres, which come from the central white mass of the hemispheres, and run perpendicularly through the cortical substance, becoming finer and spreading more out from each other as they approach the surface. The further disposition of these central or perpendicular fibres is uncertain ; Valentin describes them as forming terminal loops or arches, but this is denied by Remak and Hannover, Remak states that they gradually disappear from view at different depths, as they pass through the successive layers, the last of them vanish- ing in the superficial grey stratum; but he is unable to say positively how they terminate. It sometimes seemed to him as if the last of them, after intei'secting the fibres of the deeper white stratum, became continuous with those of the outermost layer; but of this he by no means speaks confidently. Hannover maintains that the perpendicular fibres are connected at their extremities with the nerve-cells in the cortical substance. The grey matter of the lamina cinerea, tuber cinereum and posterior perforated spot appears both in the base of the brain and in the floor of the third ventricle. The lamina cinerea is connected externally with the grey matter of the anterior perforated spot, and from that point a continuity of grey matter can be traced to the swelling of the olfactory bulb. Thus also continuity is established between the grey matter of the hemispheres and that of the interior of the brain, III. The grey matter of the interior of the cerebrum may be examined in the series of its deposits from behind forwards. In the crura cerebri, the grey matter is* collected into a dark mass, the locus niger, which lies between the crust and the tegmentum, and is also diffused among the fasciculi of the tegmentum; below this it is continuous with that of the pons and medulla oblongata, and through them with that of the spinal cord, as has already been sufiiciently described. In the upper part of each tegmentum is a round reddish grey centre, the red centre of Stilling, the superior olive of Luys. In the centre of each of the corpora quadrigemina grey matter is also found, and this collection is stated by Huschke to be continuous below with the posterior cornu of the grey matter of the spinal cord, posteriorly with that of the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum, and anteriorly with the soft commissure, the septum lucidum, optic thalami, and corpus callosum. Grey matter occurs also in the pineal gland, and in the corpora geniculata. These last bodies appear to be appendages of the optic thalami. The grey matter of the optic thalamus constitutes the principal bulk of that body; it is, however, partially divided into an inner and an outer portion, by white fibres passing through it. The corpus striatum contains three grey centres. That which forms the intra- ventricular portion of the body, and is connected inferiorly with the lamina cinerea, and with that portion of the grey matter of the optic thalamus which is seen in the third ventricle, is named the nucleus caudatus. The principal centre of the extra- ventricular portion, named nucleus lenticularis, external and inferior to the nucleus caudatus, is separated from that centre by the white substance of the fibrous cone, which, as it passes outwards, appears, when cut across, as a broad white band extend- ing from behind forwards, and traversed by striee of grey matter passing from one centre to the other. Between the nucleus lenticularis and the island of Reil, which lies opposite to it, there intervenes a thin lamelliform deposit of grey matter, the nucleus tceniceformis (Arnold), or claustrum (Burdach), which, in a transverse section, is seen as a thin line. The lenticular nucleus is continuous with the grey matter ot the anterior perforated space. The corpus striatum and optic thalamus contain cells very much like those of the cortical substance. In the corpora quadrigemina there are larger cells, approaching in size to those of the cerebellum, besides very small cells and nucleiform bodies. The dark matter, forming the so-called locus niger of the cerebral peduncles, and