THE INTESTINE. 854 turned towards the vertebral column ; and it has accordingly been named the arch of the colon. Above, the transverse colon is in contact with the under surface of the liver, the gall-bladder, the great curvature of the stomach, and the lower end of the spleen. Below it are the convolutions of the small intestine, the third portion of the duodenum being behind it. It is invested behind by the general peritoneum, and in front it adheres to the sac of the omentum. The descending colon is continuous with the left extremity of the trans- verse colon by a sudden bend named the sj^lenic flexure. It then descends almost perpendicularly through the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions to the left iliac fossa, where it ends in the sigmoid flexure. The peritoneum affords a covering to it only in front and at the sides, whilst behind, it is connected by areolar tissue to the left crus of the diaphragm, the quadratus lumborum and the left kidney. It is usually concealed behind some convo- lutions of the jejunum. The sigmoid flexure of the colon, situated in the left iliac fossa, consists " of a double bending of the intestine upon itself in the form of the letter S, immediately before it becomes continuous with the rectum at the margin of the pelvis opposite to the left sacro-iliac articulation. It is attached by a distinct meso-colon to the iliac fossa, and is very movable. It is placed im- mediately behind the anterior parietes, or is concealed only by a few turns of the small inestine. The sigmoid flexure is the narrowest part of the colon. Structure of the large intesti7ie.—The walls of the large intestine consist of four coats, like those of the stomach and small intestine, namely, the serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The serous and areolar coats require no further description here. The muscular coat, like that of the other parts of the intestinal canal, con- Fig. 599.—Outline Sketch op a Sec- tion OP THE Ascending Colon. | s, the serous or peritoneal covering ; s', s', reflection of this at the attached border forming a short wide mesentery, between the folds of which the blood- vessels are seen passing to the colon ; a, one of the appendices epiploicse hanging from the inner border ; Im, indicates at the free border one of the three bands formed by the thickening of the longi- tudinal muscular coat; the dotted line continued from the margins of these bands represents the remainder of the longitudinal muscular coat, and the thick line within it, marked c m, repre- sents the circular muscular layer ; m, the mucous membrane at the flattened part; r, the ci-esentic bands or inden- tations which divide the sacculi. sists of external longitudinal and internal circular fibres. The longi- tudinal fibres, though found in a certain amount all around the intestine, are, in the caecum and colon, principally collected into three remarkable flat longitudinal bands. These bands, sometimes called the ligaments of the colon, are about half an Fig. 599.