989 THE OVAEIES—GRAAFIAJT VESICLES. stroma, the fibres of which, although forming a felted tissue, have, with the blood-vessels, principally a radiating direction from the hilus to the rest of the surface. It contains numerous spindle-shaped cells, and also, ac- cording to some writers, unstriped muscular tissue. Towards the surface, the ovarian tissue, which in this part has been distinguished as cortical, pre- sents, especially in children, a different appearance from the deeper or medullary part^ from being granular, and having within it great numbers of small vesicles, the Graafian vesicles or follicles, which are absent from the deep part. After the period of puberty, a certain number of the Graafian vesicles, varying from twelve to thirty or more, have attained a larger size, some having a diameter of from -^Qih. to ^th of an inch, or even more. The great majority, however, remain much smaller : thus Henle estimated the number of vesicles of about or th of an inch in diameter, in the two ovaries of a girl of eighteen, at 72,000 (Syst. Anat., II., 483). The vesicles of De Graaf, when dilated, are filled in part with a clear, colourless, albuminous fluid, the larger ones approachiug the surface of the ovary, on which they may sometimes be distinguished as semi-transparent elevations. Each of these vesicles includes, besides its fluid contents, the ovum—a small round vesicular body, imbedded in a layer of cellular sub- stance. Sometimes, though rarely, two ova have been found in one vesicle. Fig. 688. Fig. 688.—View op a portion op the Section op the prepared Cat's OvARr, REPRESENTED IN THE PRECEDING FIGURE, MORE HIGHLY BIAGNIFIED (fiom Schron). 1, outer covering of the ovary ; 2, fibrous stroma ; 3, cortical layer of granular sub- stance towards the surface; 3', deeper parts of the granular substance; 4, blood- vessels ; 5, ovigerms forming a layer near the surface; 6, one or two of the ovi^erms sinking a little deeper and beginning to enlarge; 7, one of the ovigerms farther developed, now enclosed by a prolongation of the fibrous stroma, and consisting of a small Grraafian follicle, within which is situated the ovum covered by the cells of the discus proligerus ; 8, a follicle farther advanced; 8', another which is irregularly compressed ; 9, the greater part of the largest follicle, in which the following indications are given ; a, epithelial or cellular lining of the follicle constituting the membrana granulosa; 6, the portion rellected over the ovum named discus proligerus ; c, vitellus or yelk part of the ovum surrounded by a vesicular membrane, which becomes afterwards the zona pellucida ; d, germinal vesicle ; e, germinal spot or nucleus.