mTRlNSlC MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 811 terval between the upper and lower longitudinal muscles, and they are inter- woven extensively with, the other muscular fibres. Passing outwards from the median plane, where they take origin from a fibrous septum, they reach the dorsum and borders of the tongue. In proceeding outwards, they separate, and the superior fibres incline upwards, forming a series of curves with the concavity turned upwards. The fibres of the palato-glossus muscle are found byZaglas and Henle to be continuous with fibres of the transverse set. Fig. 569. — Transverse Fig. 569. Vertical Section op the Tongue in front of the Papill^S! Vallate, seen from before (from Kolliker). g, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles ; g', the vertical fibres of the right side traced upwards to the surface ; li, inferior longitudinal muscle "with the divided ranine ar- tery ; tr, transverse muscle, entire on one side, but par- tially removed on the other, where the other muscles pass through it; c, septum lin- guae ; h, hyoglossus; h g I, its fibres spreading upwards almost vertically outside the genio-hyo-glossus ; h', vertical fibres reaching the surface ; Zs, divided plates of the fibres of the superior longitudinal muscle between the vertical fibres ; st, gl, stylo-glossus ; d glands near the border of the tongue. Vertical fibres (musculus perpendicularis externus of Zaglas), decus- sating with the transverse fibres and the insertions of the genio-glossus, form a set of curves in each half of the tongue with their concavity upwards, and extending downwards and outwards from the dorsum to the under surface of the border, so that those which are outermost are shortest. (Zaglas, *' On the Muscular Structure of the Tongue," in Goodsir's Annals, I. p. 1.) Examined in transverse sections, the muscular fibres of the tongue are seen to be arranged so as to render the substance divisible into an outer part or cortex and a softer internal medulla. The fibres of the cortex are principally longitudinal, derived superiorly from the lingualis superior, further outwards from the hyo-glossus, on the side from the stylo-glossus, and beneath this from the lingualis inferior. They sheathe the medullary part on all sides except inferiorly, where the genio-glossi muscles enter it between the infe- rior linguales. In the medullary part are found, imbedded in fat, the decus- sating fibres of the transverse muscle passing across, the genio-glossi radiating upwards and outwards, and the vertical muscles arching down- wards and outwards. In addition to the movements which may be given to the tongue by the extrinsic muscles, this organ is capable of being curved upwards, downwards, or laterally by its cortical fibres, it is flattened by the vertical fibres, and its margins are again drawn together by the transverse. The septum of the tongue is a thin fibrous partition which extends forwards from the hyoid bone to the tip, and divides one half of the medullary part of the tongue from the other, but does not penetrate into the cortex. It cor- responds with the fusiform fibro-cartilage, found in the middle of the tongue of the dog, near its under surface.