988 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. From the gradual effects of more advanced age alone, independent of impreg- nation, the uterus shrinks, and becomes paler in colour, and harder in texture; its triangular form is lost; the body and neck become less distinguishable from each other ; the orifices also become less characteristic. For further details "with regard to uterine changes, the reader is referred to Farre on " Uterus and its Appendages " in Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys. THE OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. The ovaries, the parts corresponding to the testicles of the male (ovaria, testes muliebres), are two somewhat flattened oval bodies, which are placed one on each side, nearly horizontally, at the back of the broad ligament of the uterus, and are enveloptid by its posterior membranous layer. The ovaries are largest in the virgin state ; their weight is from three to five scruples, and they usually measure about one inch and a half in length, three-quarters of an inch in width, and nearly half an iuch in thickness ; but their size is rather variable. Each ovary is free on its two sides, and also along its posterior border, which has a convex outline ; but it is attached by its anterior border, which is straighter than the other, and along the line of its attachment exhibits a deep hilus by which the vessels and nerves enter. Its inner end is generally narrow, and is attached to the dense cord already described as the ligament of the ovary, which connects it with the uterus. Its outer extremity is more obtuse and rounded, and has attached to it one of the fimbrijB of the Fallopian tube. Structure.—The colour of the ovaries is whitish, and their surface is either smooth, or more commonly irregular, and often marked with pits or clefts resembling scars. Beneath the peritoneal coat, which covers it everywhere except along its attached border, the ovary is enclosed in a proper fibrous coat (tunica albuginea), of a whitish aspect and of consider- able thickness, which adheres firmly to the tissue beneath, being in struc- tural continuity with it. When the deeper ovarian substance is divided, it is seen to consist of a firm reddish-white vascular structure called the Fig. 687.—View of a Sec- tion OP THE PREPARED Ovary op the Cat (from Schron). f 1, outer covering and free border of the ovary; 1', attached border; 2, the ovarian stroma, present- ing a fibrous and vascular structure; 3, granular sub- stance lying external to the fibrous stroma; 4, blood- vessels ; 5, ovigerms in their earliest stages occupy- ing a part of the granular layer near the surface ; 6, ovigerms which have begun to enlarge and to pass more deeply into the ovary ; 7, ovigerms round which the Graafian follicle and tunica granulosa are now formed, and which have passed somewhat deeper into the ovary and are surrounded by the fibrous stroma ; 8, more advanced Graafian follicle with the ovum imbedded in the layer of cells constituting the proligerous disc ; 9, the most advanced follicle containing the ovum, &c.: 9', a follicle from which the ovum has accidentally escaped ; 10, corpus luteum presenting radiated columns of cellular structure. Fig. 687.