PNEUMO-GASTRIC—SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. 625 Fig. 418.—View op the Distribution and Connections op the Pnettmo-gastric and Sympathetic Nerves on the Right Side (from HirscMeld and Leveille). f a, lachrymal gland ; &, sublingual gland; c, submaxillary gland and facial artery ; d, thyroid gland, pulled forwards by a hook ; e, trachea, below which is the right bronchus cut across ; /, the gullet; g, the stomach, divided near the pylorus ; i, trans- verse colon, with some folds of intestine below. A, heart, slightly turned aside to show the cardiac plexus, &c. ; B, aortic arch, drawn forward by a hook ; C, innominate artery ; D, subclavian artery, of which a portion has been removed to show the sympathetic ganglia ; E, inferior thyroid artery ; F, a divided part of the external carotid artery, upon which runs a nervous plexus ; G-, internal carotid emerging from its canal superiorly; H, thoracic aorta; K, intercostal vein; L, pul- monary trunk, the right branch cut; M, superior vena cava ; 0, intercostal artery. 1, ciliary nerves of the eyeball; 2, branch of the oculo-motor to the inferior oblique muscle, connected with the ophthalmic ganglion; 3, 3, 3, the three principal divisions of the trifacial nerve ; 4, ophthalmic ganglion ; 5, spheno-palatine ; 6, otic; 7, submaxillary; 8, sublingual; 9, sixth nerve ; 10, facial in its canal, uniting with the spheno-palatine and otic ganglia; 11, glosso-pharyngeal ; 12, right pneumo-gastric; 13, left pneumo- gastric spreading on the anterior surface of the stomach ; 14, spinal accessory ; If), hypo- glossal; 16, upper nerve of the cervical plexus; 17, middle nerve of the brachial plexus ; 18, intercostal nerves; 21, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, con- nected with, 22, tympanic nerve of Jacobson ; 23, carotid branch of the Vidian nerve; 24, cavernous plexus; 25, ophthalmic twig; 26, filament to the pituitary gland; 27, union with the upper cervical nerves ; 28, points to the pneumo-gastric nerve, close to the pharyngeal and carotid branches; 29, points to the superior lai-yngeal nerve, close to the pharyngeal and inter-carotid plexuses ; 30, laryngeal branch joining the laryngeal plexus; 31, great sympathetic nerve ; 32, superior cardiac nerve ; 33, middle cervical ganglion ; 34, twig connecting the ganglion with, 35, the recurrent ; 36, middle cardiac nerve ; 37, great sympathetic nerve ; 38, inferior cervical ganglion ; below 37, branches from the ganglion, passing round the subclavian and vertebral arteries ; 39, the line from this number crosses the nerves proceeding from the brachial plexus ; 40, sympathetic twigs surrounding the axillary artery ; 41, branch of union with the first intercostal nerve ; the line from the letter e, pointing to the trachea, crosses the superior, middle, and inferior cardiac nerves ; 42, cardiac plexus and ganglion ; 43, 44, right and left coro- nary plexuses; 45, 46, thoracic portion of the great sympathetic nerve and ganglia, showing their connections with the intercostal nerves ; 47, great splanchnic nerve; 48, semilunar ganglion ; 49, lesser splanchnic ; 50, solar plexus; 51, union with the pneumo-gastric nerve ; 52, diaphragmatic plexus and ganglion; 53, coronary plexus ; 54, hepatic ; 55, splenic ; 56, superior mesenteric ; 57, renal plexus. trachea, and its divisions in the lungs. These nerves give branches likewise to the heart and great vessels by means of their communication with the cardiac plexus. Each pneumo-gastric nerve is connected with the following cranial nerves—the spinal-accessory, glosso-pharyngeal, facial, and hypo- glossal ; also, with some spinal nerves ; and with the sympathetic in the neck, thorax, and abdomen. SPmAL-ACCESSORY NERVE. The spinal nerve accessory to the vagus, or, as it is shortly named, the spinal-accessory nerve, consists of two parts : one (accessory) joins the trunk of the pneumo-gastric ; the other (spinal) ends in branches to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. The internal or accessory party the smaller of the two, joins in the foramen of exit the ganglion on the root of the pneumo-gastric, by two or three filaments ; and having passed from the skull, blends with the trunk of the pneumo-gastric beyond its second ganglion, as already said. It is stated by Bendz that a filament is given from the spinal-accessory'to the pha- ryngeal nerve above the place of junction with the pneumo-gastric, and that fibrils of the same nerve have been traced into each of the muscular offsets of the pneumo- gastric nerve. (Bendz, " Tract, de connexu inter nerv. vag. et access. 1836,") The external portion of the nerve communicates with the accessory part