1071 ABDOMINAL WALL.—INGUmAL EEGION. towards the scrotum in tlie male, or to the labia in the female (pp. 257 and 437). He will also examine the external abdominal ring, its pillars, the intercolumnar fascia, and the emergence of the spermatic cord in the male, or the round ligament of the uterus in the female (pp. 964 and 986) ; and he will notice the terminal branches of the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypo- gastric nerves (p. 660). The integument is next to be removed from the upper part of the abdomen, and along with it the subcutaneous fat ; only a sufficient thick- ness of superficial fascia being at first left to preserve the cutaneous nerves. These will be found in two ranges, the one situated near the middle line, and consisting of the anterior branches of the lower intercostal nerves, the other range emerging laterally, and consisting of the lateral cutaneous branches of the same nerves (p. 657). Let the external oblique muscle then be fully dissected, its posterior border being brought, if possible, into view (p. 248). The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is next to be divided by an incision carried transversely inwards from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the inferior part of the aponeurosis being left for future examination ; and the dissector will proceed to separate successively the attachments of the muscle to the crest of the ilium and each of the eight lower ribs, and will reflect the muscle towards the middle line as far as it admits of it. The internal oblique muscle, having next been examined, is to be reflected in the same way, and the transversalis muscle exposed and examined (pp. 250, 253). The deeper parts involved in the descent of inguinal hernia are now to be studied. For this end, the remaining part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is to be divided along its inner attachment, down to the symphysis pubis ; the lower border of the internal oblique muscle is to be examined, and, in the male, the cremasteric muscular fibres which are con- tinuous with it are to be followed down to the testicle. The lower parts of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are to be successively detached from Poupart's ligament and turned inwards, and their conjoined tendon is to be made evident. The fascia transversalis, with the internal abdominal ring, is now brought into view, and the subperitoneal fat may be seen shining through it (p. 258). The student will observe particularly the structures which lie in contact with the s^Dermatic cord in its course from the internal to the external abdominal ring, and which are described as forming the walls of the inguinal canal (p. 963). He will also raise the fascia trans- versalis, and note the infundibuliform fascia and the circumflex iliac and epigastric arteries (p. 432) ; and will acquaint himself with the relations of the latter to the direct and oblique varieties of inguinal hernia, and with the coverings which these hernijs receive in their descent (p. 1029). Poupart's and Grimbernat's ligaments may now be examined from the deep aspect, and, by separating the subperitoneal fat from the junction line of the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca, the student will obtain a view of the deep crural arch, the crural ring, and the septum crurale (p. 258)— structures which are to be noted in relation to femoral hernia (p. 1033). He will then open the sheath of the rectus muscle ; dissect it and the pyramidalis muscle (p. 253) ; follow the epigastric artery in the substance of the rectus muscle from below, and the abdominal branch of the internal mammary artery from above ; and will, at the same time, examine the deficiency in the lower part of the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus muscle, and the semilunar folds of Douglas (p. 250). 3. Male Genital Organs.—If the subject be a male^ the penis ought at