ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 888 The following works on the spleen may be referred to :—Gray, Structure and Use of the Spleen, 1854; Sanders, in Goodsir's Annals; Busk and Huxley on the Malpighian Bodies, in the Sydenham Society's translation of Kijlliker's Histology; also Huxley in Micr. Jour., ii. p. 74 ; Billroth, in Zeitschr. f. Wissensch. Zool., xi. p. 325 ; W. Miiller, Ueber d. fein. Bau der Milz, 1865. Stieda, in Virchow's Archiv., xxiv. p. 540, an abstract of which is given in Medico-Chir. Rev., October, 1862. Development.—The spleen appears in the foetus, about the seventh or eighth week, on the left side of the dilated part of the alimentary tube or stomach, and close to the rudiment of the pancreas. By the tenth week it forms a distinct lobulated body placed at the great end of the stomach. After birth it increases rapidly in size ; and in a child a few weeks old, it has attained the same proportional weight to the body as in the adult. This organ is peculiar to vertebrate animals. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. The organs of respiration consist of the thorax (already described), the larynx, the trachea, and the lungs. The larynx, affixed to the upper end of the windpipe, is not only the entrance for air into the respjiratory organs from the pharynx, but also the organ of voice, and will be described later. THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. The trachea or windpipe, the common air passage of both lungs, is an open tube which commences at the larynx above, and divides below into two smaller tubes, the right and the left bronchus, one for each lung. The trachea is placed in the middle plane of the body, and extends from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, on a level with the fifth cervical vertebra in the neck, to a place opposite the third dorsal vertebra in the thorax, where it is crossed in front by the arch of the aorta, and at or immediately below that point it bifurcates into the two bronchi. It usually measures from four inches to four inches and a half in length, and from three-quarters of an inch to one inch in width ; but its length and width are liable to continual variation, according to the position of the larynx and the direction of the neck ; moreover it usually widens a little at its lower end, and its diameter is always greater in the male than in the female. In front and at the sides the trachea is rendered cylindrical, firm, and resistant by a series of cartilaginous rings ; these however are deficient behind, so that the posterior portion is flattened and entirely membranous. The trachea is nearly everywhere invested by a loose areolar tissue, abounding in elastic fibres, and it is very movable on the surrounding parts. Both in the neck and in the thorax, it rests behind against the oesophagus, which intervenes between it and the vertebral column, and towards its lower part projects somewhat to its left side. The recurrent laryngeal nerve.s ascend to the larynx on each side in the angle between these two tubes. In the neck the trachea is situated between the common carotid arteries ; at its upper end it is embraced by the lateral lobes of the thyroid body, the middle part or isthmus of which lies across it just below the larynx. It is covered in front by the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles, between which, however, there is left an elongated lozenge-shaped interval in the middle line : this interval is covered in by a strong process of the deep cervical fascia, while, more superficially, another layer not so strong crosses between the sterno-mastoid muscles. The inferior thyroid veins and the arteria thyroidea irna, when that vessel exists (p. 340), also lie upon its anterior surface ; whilst at the root of the neck, in the episternal notch, the innominate artery and the left carotid pass obliquely over it as they ascend to gain its sides. In the thorax, the trachea is covered by the first piece of the sternum.