1044 SURGICAL AXATOMY OF THE PEHIXyElTM. of urine, which, after the operation, continues for a time to trickle from tlie bladder. Bat the prostate and the neck of the bladder, on the con- trary, are to be incised only for a small extent. The reasons for this rule may be stated as follows :—By accumulated experience in operations on the living body, it has been found that the structures now under consideration, when slightly cut into, admit of dilatation, so as to allow the passage of a stone of considerable size, and th it no unfavourable consequence follows from the dilatation. Moreover, when these parts are freely divided (cut through), the results of lithotomy are less favourable than in the oppo- site circumstances. The less favourable results adverted to appear to be due to the greater tendency to infiltration of urine in the subserous tissue of the pelvis ; and the occurrence of this calamity probably depends on the fact that when the prostate has been fully cub through, the bladder is at the same time divided beyond the base of the gland, and the urine then is liable to escape behind the pelvic fascia (which it will be remembered is connected with both those organs at their place of junction) ; whereas if the base of the gland should be left entire, the bladder beyond it is likewise uninjured, and the urine passes forwards through the external wound. The steps of the operation by which the foregoing general rules are sought to be carried out are the following :—The grooved staff having been passed into the bladder (and this instrument ought to be of as large size as the urethra will admit), and the body or the patient, as the case may be, having been placed in the usual position—by which position the perinreum is brought fully before the operator -with the skin stretched out—the first incision is begun about two inches before the anus, a little to the left of the raphe of the skin, and from this point it is carried obliquely backwards in a line about midway between the tuber ischii and the anus, extending a little way behind the level of the latter. During the incision, the knife is held with its point to the surface, and it is made to pass through some of the subcutaneous fatty layer as well as the skin. Now, the edge of the knife is applied to the bottom of the wound already formed, in order to extend it somewhat more deeply ; and the fore-finger of the left hand is passed firmly along for the purpose of separating the parts still farther, and pressing the rec- tum inwards and backwards out of the way. Next, with the same finger passed deeply into the wound from its middle and directed upwards, the position of the staff is ascertained, and the structures still covering that instrument are divide;] with slight touches of the knife,—the finger pressing the while against the point at which the rectum is presumed to be. When the knife has been inserted into the groove of the staff (and it reaches that instrument in the membranous part of the urethra) it is pushed onwards through the prostatic portion of the canal with the edge turned to the side of the prostate, outwards, or, better, outwards with an inclination backwards. The knife being now withdrawn, the forefinger of the left hand is passed along the staff into the bladder. With the finger the parts are dilated, and with it, after the staff has been withdrawn, the position of the stone is determined and the forceps is guided into the bladder. In case the calculus is known to be of more than a moderate size, ajid the knife used is narrow, the opening through the side of the prostate may be enlarged as the knife is withdrawn, or the same end may be attained by increasing the angle which that instrument, while it is being passed onwards, makes with the outer part of the staff. And if the stone should be of large size, it will be best to notch likewise the opposite side of the prostate before