1007 SUBCLAA^AN ARTERIES. outer part of the supra-scapular artery ; 10', transverse cervical branches passing into the deep surface of the trapezius ; 10", the posterior scapular artery, represented as rising directly from the third part of the subclavian artery, and passing through the axillary plexus of nerves and under the levator anguli scapula;; 11, on the scalenus anticus muscle, points to the inferior thyroid artery near the place where the ascending muscular artery of the neck is given olf; the phrenic nerve lies on the muscle to the outside ; at i, the supra-sternal twig of the supra-scapular artei'y is shown. readily felt in tlie wound, even wliile tlie parts covering it have still some thickness. The sheath of the vessels is to be opened over the artery—near the trachea—for thus the jugular vein is most easily avoided. This vein, should it lie in front of the artery, as it sometimes does on the left side, and especially at the lower part of the nesk on that side, will be a source of much difficulty in completing the operation, i. c, in passing the aneurism needle with the ligature about the artery. To surmount the difficulty much caution is required. The operator will find it advantageous to have the circulation in the vein (which in such operations becomes turgid and very large) arrested at the upper end of the wound by means of an assistant's finger. In most cases, if not in all, it is best to insert the aneurism needle conveying the ligature on the outer side of the artery, for thus the vagus nerve and the jugular vein will be most efiectually avoided. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The subclavian artery is so deeply placed, its connections with important parts are so intimate and varied, and the branches are so large in proportion to the length of the trunk, that operations on this vessel present, in most cases, considerable difficulties to the surgeon. But the difficulties, it will be found, vary in dilferent cases. The last division of the artery, that beyond the anterior scalenus muscle (p. 366), is the part which is most favourably circumstanced for the applica- tion of a ligature in the case in which such an operation is most frequently called for, namely, aneurism affecting the artery in the axilla. This part is preferable chiefly because the vessel is here nearest to the surface and most remote from the origin of the large branches. But though the subclavian artery appears to be easy of access above the clavicle while the parts are in their natural position, it is to be remembered that when an aneiirism exists in the axilla, the clavicle may be so much elevated in consequence of the presence of the tumour, as to be placed in front of the vessel, or even above it. In such circumstances, the artery lies at a great depth, and at the same time the structures in front and behind it (the clavicle on the one hand, the vertebrae with the muscles covering them on the other hand,) cannot, in any degree, be drawn asunder to facilitate the steps of the operation. It is when the outer part of the clavicle is thus raised from the ordinary horizontal position, that the height to which the artery arches above the bone becomes a point of im- portance. In most cases it happens that a portion of the artery is a short distance (about an inch) above the clavicle [plate 3] ; but occasionally, as before mentioned (p. 367), it rises much higher [plate 20, fig, 3]; or it may be lower than usual, lying close behind the bone [fig. 2]. If, in a case ren- dering the operation necessary, the clavicle sliould be unusually raised, the accessibility of the vessel in the neck will difl"er in the=>e several conditions : in one, the artery could be arrived at only by proceeding from above down- wards behind the bone ; in another, a part of it would still be higher than the bone. This will serve, in part at least, to account for difi"erences in tlie time which the operation for tying the subclavian artery has occupied in the