NEUKOLOGY.—CEREBRO SPINAL AXIS. 501 Section V.—NEUEOLOGY. Under the name of Neurology, it is intended to include the descriptive anatomy of the various organs forming parts of the nervous system. The nervous system consists of two sets of parts, one of which is central, the other 'peripheral. To the first set belong the brain and spinal cord, forming together the cerebro-spinal axis, and the ganglia : to the second set belong all the nerves distributed throughout the body ; and along with these may be included the organs of the senses, or those organs which contain the terminations of the several nerves of special sensation, in con- nection with certain apparatus or modifications of structure related to the reception of impressions by each of these nerves. Among the peripheral nerves it is necessary also to distinguish the cere- bro-spinal and the sympathetic or ganglionic, which, though intimately connected with each other at some places, are yet so diiferent in their structure and mode of distribution as to require separate description. The description of these several parts of the nervous system will be brought under the following four sub-sections, viz. 1. The cerebro-spinal axis ; 2. The cerebro-spinal nerves and the ganglia connected with them ; 3. The sympathetic nerves and their ganglia ; 4, The organs of the senses. I.—THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. The cerebro-spinal axis is contained partly within the cavity of the cra- nium, and partly within the vertebral canal ; it is symmetrical in its form and structure throughout, consisting of a right and a left half, separated to a certain extent by longitudinal fissures, and presenting in their plane of union various portions of white and grey nervous substance, which cross from one side to another, and form the commissures of the brain and spinal cord. Enclosed within the skull and the vertebral canal, the cerebro-spinal axis is protected by the bony walls of those two cavities ; it is also surrounded by three membranes, which afford it additional protection and support, and are subservient to its nutrition. These envelopes, which will be described hereafter, are, 1st, a dense fibrous membrane named the dura mater, which is placed most superficially ; 2nd, a serous membrane called the arach- noid ; and, 3rd, deepest of all, a highly vascular membrane named the pia mater. The cerebro-spinal axis is divided by anatomists into the encephalon or enlarged upper mass placed within the cranium, and the spinal cord con- tained within the vertebral canal. These two parts have a relation, one to the other, very similar to that which subsists between the cranium and vertebral column : thus, they are continuous structures ; at the time of their first formation in the foetus they are nearly similar; the earliest developed distinction consists in the enlarge- ment of the encephalon ; and, moreover, the spinal cord, like th? vertebral column, continues to present a structure nearly uniform throughout its extent, while the encephalon becomes gradually more and more complicated,