905 THE LARYNX—ITS CARTILAGES. whole extent of the thoracic parietes, where it is covered with the pleural membrane. At the same time, tlieir previously thin sharp margins become more obtuse, and their whole form is less compressed. 2. Consistence, texture, and colour.—The introduction of air, and of an increased quantity of blood into the foetal lungs, which ensues immediately upon birth, con- verts their tissue from a compact, heavy, granular, yellowish-pink, gland-like substance, into a loose, light, rose-pink, spongy structure, which, as already mentioned, floats in water. The changes thus simultaneously produced in their consistence, colour, and texture, occur first at their anterior borders, and proceed backwards through the lungs : they, moreover, appear in the right lung a little sooner than in the left. 3. Weight.—The absolute loeiyht of the lungs, having gradually increased from the earliest period of development to birth, undergoes at that time, from the quantity of blood then poured into them, a very marked addition, amounting to more than one- third of their previous Aveight: for example, the lungs before birth weigh about one and a half ounce, but, after complete expansion by respiration, they weigh as much as two and a half ounces. The relative weight of the lungs to the body, which at the termi- nation of intra-uterine life is about 1 to 70, becomes, after respiration, on an average, about 1 to 35 or 40 ; a proportion which is not materially altered through life. Their specific gravity is at the same time changed from 1'056 to about •342. 4. Changes in the trachea after birth.—In the foetus the trachea is flattened before and behind, its anterior surface being even somewhat depressed ; the ends of the car- tilages touch ; and the sides of the tube, which now contains only mucus, are applied to one another. The eflfect of respiration is at first to render the trachea open, but it still remains somewhat flattened in front, and only later becomes convex. THE LARYNX, OR ORGAN OF VOICE. The upper part of the air passage is modified in its structure to form the organ of voice. This organ, named the lai^ynx, is placed at the upper and fore part of the neck, where it forms a considerable prominence in the middle line. It lies between the large vessels of the neck, and below the tongue and os hyoides, to which bone it is suspended. It is covered in front by the cervical fascia along the middle line, and on each side by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, by the upper end of the thyroid body, and by a small part of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Behind, it is covered by the pharyngeal mucous membrane, and above it opens into the cavity of the pharynx. The larynx consists of a framework of cartilages, articulated together and connected by proper ligaments, two of which, named the true vocal cords, are more immediately concerned in the production of the voice. It also possesses muscles, which move the cartilages one upon another, and modify the form and tension of its apertures, a mucous membrane lining its internal surface, numerous mucous glands, and lastly, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, besides areolar tissue and fat. Cartilages of the Larynx. The cartilages of the larynx consist of three single and symmetrical pieces, named respectively the thyroid cartilage, the cricoid cartilage, and the cartilage of the epiglottis, and of six others, which occur in pairs, namely, the two arytenoid cartilages, the cornicula laryngls, and the cunei- form cartilages. In all there are nine distinct pieces, the two cornicula and two cuneiform cartilages being very small. Of these, only the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are seen on the front and sides of the larynx ; the aryte- noid cartilages, surmounted by the cornicula laryngis, together with the back of the cricoid cartilage, on which they rest, form the posterior wall of