DEVELOPMENT OE THE CEEEBEO-SPmAL AXIS. 578 The pons Varolii is formed, as it were, by the fibres from the hemispheres of the cerebellum embracing the pyramidal and olivary fasciculi of the medulla oblongata. According to Baer, the bend which takes place at this part of the encephalon thrusts down a mass of nervous substance before any fibres can be seen ; and in this substance transverse fibres, continuous with those of the cerebellum, are after- wards developed. From its relation to the cerebellar hemispheres the pons keeps pace Avith them in its growth; and, in conformity with this relation, its transverse fibres are few, or entirel}'^ wanting, in those animals in which there is a corresponding deficiency or absence of the lateral parts of the cerebellum. Fig. 392. Eig- 392 A.—Brain and Spinal Cord exposed from behind in a ° Fcsrus OF THREE MONTHS (from Kolliker). h, the hemispheres ; m, the mesencephalic vesicle or corpora quadrigemina ; c, the cerebellum ; below this are the medulla oblongata, mo, and fourth ventricle, with remains of the membrana obturatoria. The spinal cord, s, extends to the lower end of the sacral canal and presents the i)rachial and crural enlargements. Fig. 393 B.—Upper View op the Brain of a three months^ FCETUS, IN which THE HEMISPHERES HAVE BEEN DIVIDED AND TURNED ASIDE, AND THE VeSIOLE OF THE MESENCEPHALON (COR- PORA Quadrigemina) opened (from Kolliker). /, anterior part of the great arch of the hemispheres over the cerebral fissure ; /', posterior part descending into the cornu am- monis ; cs, corpus striatum; th, thalamus opticus; m, in the floor of the opened vesicle of the mesencephalon, which is still hollow. The second, or middle vesicle.—The corpora quadrigemina are formed in the upper part of the middle cephalic vesicle; the hollow in the interior of which, communicates with those of the first and third vesicles. The corpora quadrigemina, in the early condition of the human embryo, are of great propor- tionate volume, in harmony with what is seen in the lower vertebrata; but subsequently they do not grow so fast as the anterior parts of the encephalon, and are therefore soon overlaid by the cerebral hemispheres, which at the sixth month cover them in completely. Moreover, they become gradually solid, by the deposition of matter within them; and as, in the meantime, the cerebral peduncles are increasing rapidly in size in the floor of this middle cephalic vesicle, the cavity in its interior is quickly filled up, with the exception of the narrow passage named the Sylvian aqueduct. The fillet is distinguish- able in the fourth month. The corpora quadrigemina of the two sides are not marked ofiF from each other by a vertical median groove until about the sixth month; and the trans- verse depression separating the anterior and posterior pairs is first seen about the seventh month of intra-uterine life. The first, or anterior vesicle.—This vesicle, very soon after its formation, exhi- bits two lateral outgrowths—the optic vesicles,—destined to form the fundamental parts of the organs of vision. Each of these soon becomes separated from the parent vesicle by a constricted part, which forms the optic nerve and tract. The first vesicle has usually been described as dividing into two portions—viz., a posterior, which is developed into the optic thalami and third ventricle, and an anterior, which forms the principal mass of the cerebral hemispheres, including the corpora striata. Eeichert, however, has pointed out that the hemispheres and corpora striata are developed from the sides of the fore part of the vesicle, and become distinguished from it by a constriction similarly as the optic vesicles had previously been, and that there is left between the hemisphere-vesicles of opposite sides a wedge-shaped interval, which forms the third ventricle. He points out that the terminal extremity of the cerebro- spinal tube is at the tip of this wedge, and is placed immediately in front of the optic commissure, at the lamina cinerea; and that therefore the infundibulum is not that