THE STOMACH-FORM, SITUATIOJT, &c. 831 The stomach is of a somewhat conical or pyriform shape. The left ex- tremity is the larger, and is named the cardiac, great or splenic end. The right or small end is also named the pyloric extremity. Of its two orifices, the one by which food enters from the CBSophagus is named the cardiac orifice, the other, by which it passes into the duodenum, and which is placed on a somewhat lower level, and more forwards, is the pyloric orifice. The oesophagus terminates in the stomach two or three inches from the great extremity, which projects beyond the place of union to the left, forming the great cul-de-sac or f undus. Between the cardiac and the pyloric orifices, the outline of the stomach is curved along its upper and lower borders. The iipper border, about three or four inches in length, is concave, and is named the lesser curvature ; while the lower border, which is much longer, and, except towards the pylorus, convex, forms the greater curvature. Fig. 680,—Diagrammatic Outlike op THE Stomach. I a, great curvature; h, lesser curva- ture ; c, left end, great cul-de-sae, or fundus ; d, small cul-de-sac or antrum pylori ; o, oesophageal orifice or cardia ; jp, duodenal orifice or pylorus^ Towards the pylorus, the small end of the stomach describes a double bend, opposite to the first turn of which is a prominence or bulging, sometimes named the small cul-de-sac or antrum pylori. Fig. 580. Division of the stomach, by constriction, into a right and left poiach, is frequently observed as a temporary condition resulting from spasm. More rarely it is of a per- manent character (Struthers, Monthly Med. Journ., 1851). Dimensions.—Tliese vary greatly, according to the state of distension of the organ. When moderately filled, its length is about ten or twelve inches ; and its diameter at the widest part, from four inches to four inches and a half. According to Clendiuning, it weighs, when freed from other parts, about four ounces and a half in the male, and somewhat less in the female. Connections.—The borders of the stomach are connected with folds of peritoneum in their whole extent. Thus, to the superior border is attached the gastro-phrenic ligament and gastro-hepatic omentum ; to the inferior border is attached the gastro-colic omentum ; and to the left extremity the gastro-splenic omentum. The blood-vessels and lymphatics of the stomach pass within these duplicatures of the peritoneum, and reach the organ along its two curvatures. Its anterior and posterior surfaces are free, smooth, and covered with peritoneum. The anterior surface, which is directed upwards as well as forwards, is in contact above with the diaphragm and the under surface of the liver, and lower down with the abdominal parietes opposite to the epigastric region, which is hence named the pit of the stomach. The posterior surface is turned downwards and backwards, and rests upon the transverse meso-colon, and farther back, upon the pancreas and great vessels of the abdomen.