STRUCTUEE OF THE BIT.TAUY DUCTS. 877 throughout each lobule, injected blue, while the interveniug cells remain free from colour. These canals he describes as of regular diameter, without increase of size where they anastomose, and by teasing he obtains portions of them with distinct walls standing out free from the cells : by Avarming the section to 113'^ Fah., the blue colour is destroyed while the canals still remain visible. By killing the animals sooner after the injection, the blue colouring matter was found within the hepatic cells, thus demonstrating that it was through their agency that the canals were filled. Further expe- riments were made in animals in which the portal vein and hepatic artery had been tied, and the result obtained was that when the hepatic artery Fig. 615.—Two SMALL Fragments of Hepatic Lobules, of WHICH THE SMALLEST Intercellular Biliary Ducts were filled with Colouring Matter during Life, highly magnified (from Chrzonszczewsky). In A, the hepatic cells have been separated, and the inter- cellular ducts, a, are seen not only passing between them, but also in part pi'ojecting free ; in this preparation the colour was discharged by heat : in B, the colouring matter remains in the ducts, and the cells are more closely con- nected together. had been tied, the peripheral parts of the lobules showed the blue canals, while the centre of each was left colourless ; and that when the portal vein had been tied, the reverse effect was produced ; the centre of each lobule showing bliie canals, while in the intervening spaces only larger ducts were seen. It is worthy of remark that the appearance of fibres crossing the capillary spaces observed by Henle in sections washed with alkali, might very well be due to such canals as those described by Budge, Chrzonszczewsky, and others. Structure, of the ducts.—The bile-ducts have strong distensible areolar coats, containing abundant elastic tissue, and their mucous membrane is lined with columnar epithelium. The minute ramifications between the lobules have walls of a more homogeneous nucleated tissue, but the lining of columnar epithelium is still found in them (Henle). The mucous membrane of those which are less minute presents numerous opanings, which are scat- tered irregularly in the larger ducts, but in the subdivisions are arranged in two longitudinal rows, one at each side of the vessel. These openings were formerly supposed to be the orifices of mucous glands ; but while the main ducts are studded with true mucous glands of lobulated form and with minute orifices, the larger openings now referred to belong, as was pointed out by Theile, to sacs and ramified tubes which occasionally anastomose, and may be studded all over with csecal projections. Sappey and Henle, who have made these processes the subject of special investigation, find that they are so numerous as sometimes to conceal the parent tube, and on this Henle bases his suggestion (System. Anat.) that they are engaged in the secretion of the bile. Aberrant biliary ducts.—In the duplicature of the peritoneum forming the left lateral ligament of the liver, and also in the two fibrous bands which sometimes convert the fossa for the vena cava and the fissure of the umbilical vein into canals, there have been found biliary ducts of considerable