974 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. nales at the sides with the vasa deferentia interposed, and behind by the line of reflexion of the peritoneum from the bladder to the rectum, rests immediately on that intestine. The seminal vesicles themselves are also supported by the sides of the rectum, but they are separated from the bowel by a layer of the recto-vesical fascia, which holds them to the base of the bladder. The sacculated appearance of the vesiculas seminales is owing to their peculiar formation. Each consists of a tube somewhat coiled and repeat- edly doubled on itself, and firmly held in that condition by a dense fibrous tissue. When unrolled, this tube is found to be from four to six inches long, and about the width of a quill. Its posterior extremity is closed, so that it forms a long cul-de-sac ; but there are generally, if not always, several longer or shorter branches or diverticula developed from it, which also end by closed extremities. Its anterior extremity, which forms the fore part of the vesicula, becomes straight and narrowed, and ends opposite the base of the prostate by uniting on its inner side, at a very acute angle, with the narrow termination of the corresponding vas deferens to form a single canal, which is the common seminal or ejaculatory duct. In structure, the vesiculoe seminales resemble very closely the adjoining sacculated portions of the vasa deferentia. Besides an external fibro-areolar investment, connected with the recto-vesical fascia, they have a proper coat, which is firm, dense, and somew'hat elastic, and consists of rigid white fibres and of others of a deep yellowish-brown hue. Muscular tissue is found in their walls, at least on the posterior aspect, where longitudinal and transverse bands pass over them from the muscular wall of the bladder (Ellis and Kolliker). The mucous membrane is pale, or has a dirty brownish-white colour. It is traversed by multitudes of fine rugre, which form an areolar structure resembling that seen in the gall-bladder, but deeper and composed of much finer meshes. The epithelium of the vesiculse is of the squamous kind ; its particles have a granular character. The seminal vesicles serve as receptacles or reservoirs for the semen, as is easily proved by a microscopic examination of their contents ; but, besides this, it is supposed by some that they secrete a peculiar fluid which is incor- porated with the semen. The common seminal or ejaculatory ducts, two in number, are formed on each side by the junction of the narrowed extremities of the corresponding vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, close to the ba?e of the prostate gland. From this point they run forwards and upwards, at the same time approach- ing each other, and then pass side by side through the prostate between its middle and two lateral lobes. After a course of nearly an inch, during which they become gradually narrower, they end in the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra by two small slit-like orifices placed one on each prominent margin of the verumontanum close to the opening of the sinus pocularis. For a short distance the ejaculatory ducts run in the substance of the walls of this sinus. The coats of the common seminal duct, as compared with those of the vas deferens and vesicula, are very thin. The strong outer tunic almost entirely disappears after the entrance of the ducts between the lobes of the prostate, but muscular fibres may be traced into the prostatic portion ; and the mucous membrane becomes gradually smoother, and at length passes into that of the urethra. The muscular fibres of the duct, according to Henle, are separated in the prostate to form the trabecules of a layer of cavernous tissue.