ORGANS OF THE SENSES. THE EYE. 705 lY. ORGANS OF THE SENSES. In this place it is intended to describe the organs of sight, hearing and smelling, which, considered with reference to their anatomy and develop- ment, are regarded as the higher organs of special sense. The description of the organ of touch is given along with the skin in the histological part of the work, and that of the organ of taste along with the descriptive anatomy of the digestive system. THE EYE. The organ of vision, strictly speaking, consists only of the ball or globe of the eye, a spheroidal structure enclosed by strong membranous coverings, receiving the optic nerve posteriorly, and containing the sensitive termina- tions of that nerve, together with a series of transparent media, which consti- tute an optical instrument of variable focus, through which the rays of light are transmitted to the sensitive part, and so brought into focus as to form upon it a distinct inverted image of the objects from which they proceed. But there are likewise various structures external to the eyeball which contribute to the production of perfect vision, such as the straight and oblique muscles by which the eyeball is moved in different directions, and the various sup- porting and protective structures known as appendages of the eye (tutamina oculi), including the eyebrows, eyelids, and conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus. APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. THE EYELIDS AND CONJUNCTIVA. The eyelids (palpebrae) are moveable folds of integument, strengthened toward their margins by a thin lamina of cartilage. The mucous membrane, which lines their inner surface, and which is reflected thence in the form of a pellucid covering on the surface of the eyeball, is named membrana conjunctiva. The upper lid is larger and more moveable than the lower : the trans- parent part of the globe is covered by it when the eye is closed ; and the eye is opened chiefly by the elevation of this lid by a muscle (levator palpebrse) devoted exclusively to this purpose. The eyelids are joined at the outer and inner angles (canthi) of the eye. The interval between the angles, Jissura palpebrarum, varies in length in different persons, and, according to its extent, the size of the globe being nearly the same, gives the appearance of a larger or a smaller eye. The greater part of the edge of each eyelid is flattened, but towards the inner angle it is rounded off for a short space, at the same time that it somewhat changes its direction ; and, where the two differently formed parts join, there exists on each lid a slight conical elevation—papilla lachrymalis, the apex of which is pierced by the aperture or punctum of the corresponding lachrymal canalicule. In the greater part of their extent the lids are applied to the surface of the eyeball ; but at the inner canthus, opposite the puncta lachrymalia, there intervenes a vertical fold of conjunctiva, the plica semilunaris, resting on the eyeball; while, occupying the recess of the angle internal to the border of this fold, is a spongy-looking reddish elevation, formed by a group