SUPERFICIAL AND DEEP DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 1055 the superior and inferior coronary, the lateral nasal and the angular, are to be exposed (p. 350). The branches of the facial nerve should be traced backwards through the parotid gland to the emergence of the main trunk from the stylomastoid foramen : while this is being done, the connections of this nerve with the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth and with the great auricular nerve will be preserved, and the twigs to the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the stylo-hyoid muscle should be sought for, close to the skull (p. 613). The continuation of the external carotid artery into the superficial temporal will be seen ; and in dissecting out the remains of the parotid gland, the position and relations of that gland can be studied (p. 814). In this part of the dis- section the student should also observe the connections of the part of the cervical fascia which separates the parotid and submaxillary glands, and which is continuous with the strong band known as the stylo-maxillary ligament (p. 197). Finally, the dissector may clean and examine the tarsal and nasal cartilages (pp. 706 and 771). 6. Deep Dissection of the Face.—The masseter muscle, and the nerve and artery which enter its deep surface from the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw are to be examined (p. 181), and the temporal fascia removed, the orbital twig of the superior maxillary nerve being sought between its layers (p. 600). By means of the saw and bone-nippers, the zygomatic arch may then be divided in front and behind in such a manner as exactly to include the origin of the masseter muscle, which should be turned downwards and backwards, the masseteric nerve and artery being in the meantime preserved. Let the coronoid process be divided by a vertical and horizontal incision with the saw and nippers as low down as possible, care being taken not to cut the buccal nerve, which lies in close contact with the temporal muscle. The coronoid process with the temporal muscle attached is to be reflected upwards, and the neck of the jaw is to be divided a little below the con- dyle, and as much of the ramus of the jaw is to be removed as can be cut away without injury to the inferior dental artery and nerve which enter the foramen. The internal maxillary artery with its branches is to be ex- posed as far as can be done without injury to the external pterygoid muscle, on whose outer surface it generally lies ; it is frequently, however, covered by it. The gustatory and inferior dental nerves will be seen below the inferior border of the external pterygoid muscle, the latter nerve giving off the mylo-hyoid branch before entering the inferior dental canal, and resting on the fibrous slip commonly known as the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, between which and the jaw the internal maxillary artery likewise passes. Above the superior border of the same muscle will be seen the anterior and posterior deep temporal arteries and nerves, and between the two parts of the same muscle, the buccal nerve and vessels. After the external pterygoid muscle has been examined (p. 182), the temporo-maxillary articulation is to be studied (p. 132), and opened by cut- ting the external lateral ligament and dividing the capsule of the joint above and below the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and the condyle of the jaw is to be disarticulated ; care being taken not to cut the auriculo-temporal division of the inferior maxillary nerve, which is in close contact with the inner side of the capsule (p. 606). The external pterygoid muscle may now be turned forward along with the head of the jaw, and its nerve found ; after which it may be removed. The branches of the internal maxillary artery in the vicinity of the ptery- goid muscles are thus brought fully into view, viz. : in the first part of its