1085 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. here there will generally be seen the anastomoses between the external malleolar and the anterior peroneal arteries (p. 449). The continuation of the anterior tibial artery as the dorsal artery of the foot is to be traced forwards to its junction with the plantar arch in the first interosseous space, and its tarsal and metatarsal branches are to be examined with the branches supplied by the latter to the three outer interosseous spaces (p. 450). Finally, the interossei muscles are to be dissected and examined in their dorsal end plantar aspects (p. 291). 8. The K7iee Joirit, Ankle Joint, and Articulations of the Foot.—The tendons passing near the knee-joint are, in the first place, to be cleaned ; and the anastomoses of blood-vessels upon the knee are to be more particu- larly examined, viz., the anastomotic branch of the femoral artery, the external and internal superior articular, and external and internal inferior articular branches of the popliteal artery, and the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery. The three parts of the insertion of the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle and the posterior ligament are to be exhibited (p, 271) : the popliteus muscle is then to be dissected out, and its tendon traced to its origin (p. 285) ; the tendon of the biceps muscle is also to be dissected to its insertion in connection with the external lateral ligament (p. 270) ; and at the same time the internal lateral ligament is to be dis- played (p. 153). In front the ligamentum patellas is to be cleaned, and the extension upwards of the synovial sac of the knee-joint carefully exa- mined ; the joint may then be opened by cutting into the synovial sac at this place, and reflecting the remains of the quadriceps extensor femoris muscle. Inside will be seen the ligamentum mucosum, the alar ligaments, and the fatty processes of the synovial membrane ; the extent of the synovial cavity will be carefully inspected, and with a little dissection the crucial ligaments may then be brought into view. The capsule of the joint ought next to be entirely removed, in order that the form and actions of the lateral and crucial ligaments and the movements of the semilunar carti- lages may be better studied. The structure of the latter will be best seen after the femur has been separated from the tibia. The movements of the ankle-joint ought to be studied in connection with those of the tarsal articulations (p. 158). Its principal ligaments are to be cleaned externally, viz., the exterual lateral in three distinct parts, the internal lateral, and the transverse or posterior. When the internal exami- nation of this joint has been completed, the superior and inferior tibio- fibular articulations and the interosseous membrane are to be studied. On the dorsum of the foot the numerous short dorsal ligaments of the tarsal and metatarsal bones are to be cleaned. On the sole of the foot the super- ficial and deep parts of the calcaneo-cuboid ligament, the inserted tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus muscles, the scaphoido-cuboid, scaphoido-cuneiform, and various other shorter ligaments are to be dissected. The examination of the remaining joints of the foot may then be com- pleted in the following order: the posterior articulation of the astragalus and calcaneum, bounded in front by the strong interosseous ligament; the articu- nation of the astragalus, calcaneum, and scaphoid, in which the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is especially to be observed; the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; the articulation between the cuboid and fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones ; the articidation between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, which passes forwards between the latter ; the articulation between the two outer cuneiform bones and the second and third metatarsal bones ; and the articulation between the internal cuneiform and first metatarsal bone.