THE LIYEE. Fig. 617. 880 Fig. 617.—Under Surface op the the full period it still descends an inch and a half below the margin of the thorax, overlaps the spleen on the left side, and reaches nearly down to the crest of the ilium on the right. Form, Colour, d:c.—The foetal liver is considerably thicker from above down- ■\vards than that of the adult. It is generally of a darker hue. Its consistence and specific gravity are both less than in the adult. Blood-Vessds.—The blood-vessels of the foetal liver present several important pecu- liarities, -with -which, indeed, those previously mentioned are more or less connected. Up to the moment of birth, the greater part of the blood returned from the placenta by the umbilical vein passes through the liver of the foetus before it reaches the heart; while a smaller part is transmitted more directly to the right auricle. During foetal life, the umbilical vein runs from the umbilicus along the free margin of the suspensoi-y ligament towards the anterior border and under surface of the liver, beneath which it is lodged in the umbilical fissure, and proceeds as far as the transverse fissure. Here it divides into tioo branches; one of these, the smaller of the two, continues onward in the same direction, and joins the vena cava; this is the ductus venosus, which occupies the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure, and gives to it the name of the fossa of the ductus venosus. The other and larger branch (the trunk of the umbilical vein) turns to the right along the transverse or portal fissure, and ends in the vena portas, which, in as much as it proceeds from the veins of the digestive organs, is in the foetus comparatively of small dimensions. Moreover, the umbilical vein, as it lies in the umbilical fissure, and before it joins the vena portee, gives off some lateral branches, which enter the left lobe of the liver. It also sends a few branches to the square lobe and to the lobe of Spigelius. FcETAi, Liver, with its great Blood-vessels, at the full Period. | The rounded outline of the organ, and the comparatively small differ- ence of size between its two lobes, are seen : a, the umbilical vein, lying in the umbilical fissure, and turning to the right side at the transverse fissure (a), to join the vena portse {})) : the branch marked d, named the ductus venosus, con- tinues straight on to join the vena cava inferior (c) : a few branches of the umbilical vein enter the sub- stance of the liver at once; g, the gall-bladder. The blood of the umbilical vein may therefore be considered as reaching the ascending vena cava in three portions. Some is carried into it by the more direct passage of the ductus venosus; another, the principal portion, passes first through the portal veins, and then through the hepatic veins ; whilst a third portion, supplied by direct branches to the liver, is also returned to the cava by the hepatic veins. Changes after birth.—Immediately after birth, at the cessation of the current which previously passed through the umbilical vein, and on the establishment of an inci-eased circulation through the lungs, the supply of blood to the liver is diminished by nearly two-thirds. The umbilical vein and ductus venosus become empty and con- tracted, and soon afterwards they begin to be obliterated, and are ultimately converted into the fibrous cords already described,—that one which represents the umbilical vein constituting the round ligament of the liver. At the end of six days the ductus venosus has been found to be closed; but it sometimes continues open for several weeks. That portion of the umbilical vein which supplied direct branches to the liver remains open, though diminished in size, and, being in communication with the left branch of the vena port^, continues afterwards to transmit blood to a part of the liver from that vessel. Concurrently with, and doubtless in some measure dependent on, the sudden