FORM OF THE PENIS. INTEGUMENTS. 955 THE PENIS. The penis, whicli supports the greater part of the urethra iu the male, is composed principally of an erectile tissue, arranged in masses which occupy three long and nearly cylindrical compartments. Of these, two, named corpora cavernosa 'penis, placed side by side, form the principal part of the organ, whilst the other, situated beneath the two preceding, sur- rounds the canal of the urethra, and is named corpus cdvernosum urethrce or corjms spongiosum. The penis is attached behind to the front of the pubes, and to the pubic arch, by what is termed the root; in front it ends in an enlargement named the glanSf which is structurally continuous with the corpus spongiosum. The intermediate portion or body of the penis, owing to the relative position of its three compartments, has three somewhat flattened sides, and three rounded borders ; its widest side is turned upwards and forwards, and is named the dorsum. The glans penis, which is slightly compressed above and below, presents at its extremity a vertical fissure, the external orifice of the urethra ; its base, which is wider than the body of the penis, is hollowed out below to receive the narrowing extremities of the corpora cavernosa ; its border is rounded and projecting, and is named the corona glandis, behind which is a constriction named the cervix; the posterior boundary of the glans thus marked off passes obliquely down on each side of the under surface, and ends behind the urethral opening, in a median fold of skin, named the froznum. The Integuments.—The integument of the penis, which is continued from that of the pubes and scrotum, forms a simple investment as far as the neck of the glans. At this part it leaves the surface and is doubled up in a loose cylindrical fold, constituting the prepuce or foreskin. The inner layer of this fold returns to the penis behind the cervix, where it is firmly attached ; and the integument becoming thus again adherent, is continued forwards over the corona and glans, as far as the orifice of the urethra, where it meets with the mucous membrane of the urethra, and behind that orifice forms the frmnum of the prepuce. Upon the body of the penis the skin is very thin, entirely free from fat, and, excepting at the root, from hairs also ; in these respects differing remarkably from that on the pubes, which is thick, covers a large cushion of fat, and, after pubertj^, is beset with hairs : the skin of the penis is moreover very movable and distensible, and is dark iu colour. At the free margin of the prepuce the integument changes its character, and approaches to that of a mucous membrane, being red, thin and moist. Numerous sebaceous glands are collected round the cervix of the penis and corona; they are named the glands of Tyson (glandulse odoriferre). Their secretion has a peculiar odour, and was formerly supposed to constitute the white smegma prwputii, which tends to collect beneath the foreskin ; but that substance consists princi- pally of epithelial cells cast from the opposed cuticular surfaces. Upon the surface of the glans penis the integument again changes its character; it ceases to contain glands, but its papillae are highly developed and extremely sensitive, and it adheres most intimately and immovably to the spongy tissue of the glans. Beneath the skin, on the body of the penis, the ordinary superficial fascia is very distinct; it is continuous with that of the groin, and also with the dartoid tissue of the scrotum. Near the root of the organ there is in front a dense band of fibro-elastic tissue, named the suspensory ligament, lying amongst