890 ORGANS OF EESPIRATION. they are rounded and firm in front and at the sides, where they are pro- vided with imperfect cartilaginous rings, and they are flattened and mem- branous behind. Structure of the Trachea. The trachea presents for consideration the elastic framework of incomplete cartilaginous rings, layers of fibrous, muscular, and elastic substance, and the lining mucous membrane, with glands. The cartilages a.Bd fibrous membrane.—The cartilages are from sixteen to twenty in number. Each presents a curve of rather more than two-thirds of a circle, resembling the letter C. The depth from above downwards is from one line and a half to two lines, and the thickness half a line. The outer surface of each is flat, but the inner surface is convex from above downwards, so as to give greater thickness in the middle than at the upper and lower edge. The cartilages are held together by a strong fibrous mem- Fig. 624. Fig. 624.—Outline showing the General Form of the Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi as seen from behind. ^ h, great cornu of the hyoid bone ; t, superior, and I', the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage ; e, the epiglottis; a, points to the back of both the ary- tenoid cartilages, which are surmounted by the cornicula ; c, the middle ridge on the back of the cricoid cartilage ; t r, the posterior membranous part of the trachea; 5, 6', right and left bronchi. brane. This membrane is elastic and extensible in a certain de- gree, and not only occupies the intervals between the cartilages, but is prolonged over their outer and inner surfaces, so that they are, as it were, imbedded in it. The layer covering the outer side of the rings is stronger than that within them, and from this circumstance, together with the roundness of their inner surfaces, they may be felt more pro- minently on the interior than on the exterior of the trachea. The cartilages terminate ab- ruptly behind. At the back of the trachea, where they are altogether wanting, the fibrous membrane is continued across between their ends, but it is here looser in its texture.