THE EAR. 754 inwards : except in the last-mentioned direction in which, it is somewhat smaller, it measures about ^th of an inch in diameter. The outer wall, which separates it from the cavity of the tympanum, is perforated by the fenestra ovalis, which in the recent state is closed by the base of the stapes and its annular ligament. At the fore part of the inner wall is a small round pit, the fovea hemi- spherical pierced with many small holes, which serve to transmit branches of the auditory nerve from the internal auditory meatus. This fossa is limited behind by a vertical ridge named crista vestibuli or eminentia pyramidalis. Behind the crest is the small oblique opening of a canal, the aqueduct of the vestibule, which extends to the posterior surface of the bone, and transmits a small vein in a tubular prolongation of membrane. In the roof is an oval depression, placed somewhat transversely, fovea hemi-eUiptica, whose inner part is separated by the crest from the hemi- spherical fossa. At the back part of the vestibule are five round apertures, leading into the semicircular canals : and at the lower and fore part of the cavity is a larger opening, which communicates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea— apertiLva scake vestibuli. The semicirculai' canals are three bony tubes, situate above and behind the vestibule, into which they open by five apertures, the contiguous ends of Fig. 508. Fig. 508.—View of the Interior op the Left Labyrinth (from Sommerring). B. The bony wall of the labyrinth is removed superiorly and externally. 1, fovea hemi- elliptica ; 2, fovea hemispherica ; 3, common opening of the superior and posterior semi- circular canals ; 4, opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 5, the superior, 6, the posterior, and 7, the external semicircular canals ; 8, spiral tube of the cochlea (scala tympani) ; 9, opening of the aqueduct of the cochlea; 10, placed on the lamina spiralis in the scala vestibuli. two of the canals being joined. They are unequal in length, but each tube is bent so as to form about two-thirds of a circle ; and each presents, at one end, a slightly dilated part, called the ampulla. The canals are compressed laterally, and measure across about -^Q^h. of an inch; but in the ampulla each has a diameter of -j^th of an inch. The canals differ from one another in position with regard to the vestibule, in direction, and in length. The superior semicircular canal is vertical and transverse; and, rising above any other part of the labyrinth, its place is indicated by a smooth arched projection on the upper surface of the bone. The ampuUary end of this canal is the anterior, and opens by a distinct orifice into the upper part of the vestibule; whilst the oppo- site extremity joins the non-dilated end of the posterior semicircular canal, and opens by a common aperture with it into the back part of the vestibule. The p>osterior semicircular canal, vertical and longitudinal in direction, is the longest of the three tubes : its ampullary end is placed at the lower and back part of the vestibule; and the opposite end joins in the common canal above described. The external semi-