THE SEPTUM LUCID [JM.—THE FORNIX. 545 manner the eminentia collateralis corresponds with the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius. As some discussion has recently taken place in this country with regard to the value of the presence of the hippocampus minor in man, as a distinctive character of the human brain, it may be well to mention that this structure has been found even in the brains of quadrumana which do not belong to the highest group. In the human subject the posterior cornu varies greatly in size, and the hippocampus minor is still more variable in its development, being sometimes scarcely to be recognised, and at others proportionally large. It is usually most developed where the posterior cornu is longest: but length of the posterior cornu, and prominence of the hip- pocampus minor, by no means occur in proportion to the dimensions of the hemi- sphere, but rather seem to be associated with thinness of both the medullary and cortical substance. The septum lucidum is a thin translucent partition, placed between the two lateral ventricles. It extends vertically between the corpus callosum above, and the anterior part of the fornix below ; and as the latter sinks down in front away from the corpus callosum, the septum is deep before and narrow behind. Anteriorly it lies in the hollow of the bend of the corpus callosum, in front of the fornix. The septum lucidum is double, being composed of two distinct laminae, having an interval between them, which contains fluid and is lined by an epitheliated membrane. This is the fifth ventricle, ventricle of the septurriy or Sylvian ventricle. Each of the laminae of the septum which form the sides of the fifth ven- tricle, consists of an internal layer of white substance and an external layer of grey matter. In the human embryo, and also in some animals, the cavity of this ventricle com- municates with that of the third ventricle in front and below; but in the adult human brain it forms a separate and insulated cavity. Tarin described a small fissure in it between the pillars of the fornix; but this is unusual. In disease it is sometimes distended with fluid. The fornix is an arched sheet of white longitudinal fibres, which appears partly in the floor of both lateral ventricles. It consists of two lateral halves, which are separated from each other in front and behind, but between those points are joined together in the mesial plane. The two parts in front form the anterior pillars of the fornix ; the middle conjoined part is named the hody ; and the hind parts, which are again separated from each other, form the posterior pillars. The body of the fornix is triangular in shape, being broad and flattened behind, where it is connected with the under surface of the corpus callosum, and narrower in front as it dips down to leave that body,—the space between them being filled up by the septum lucidum. Its lateral edges are in contact with the choroid plexuses, and its under surface rests upon the velum interpositum. The anterior crura or pillars of the fornix, cylindrical in form, descend, slightly apart from each other, through a quantity of grey matter on the sides of the third ventricle, between the corpora striata ; and, curving back- wards as they descend, reach the corpora albicantia. There each crus turns upon itself, making a twisted loop which forms the white portion of the corpus albicans of its own side, and ascends to enter the substance of the optic thalamus. These crura are connected with the peduncles of the pineal gland, and with the taenia semicircularis, as will be afterwards described.