983 FORM AND POSITION OF THE UTERUS. duplicature, named the ligamentum latum, which, together with the parts contained within it, will be presently described. Fig. 684. Fig. 684.—Anterior View of the Uterus and its Appendages. ^ a, fundus ; b, body ; c, cervix ; e, front of the upper part of the vagina; n, n, round ligaments ; r, r, broad ligaments; s, s, Fallopian tubes ; t, fimbriated extremity ; zt, ostium abdominale; the position of the ovaries is indicated through the broad ligaments, and the cut edge of the peritoneum is shown along the side of the broad ligaments and across the front of the uterus. The average dimensions of the uterus are about three inches in length, two in breadth at his upper and wider part, and nearly an inch in thick- ness : its weight is from seven to twelve drachms. It is usually described as possessing a fundus, body, and neck. The fundus is the broad upper end of the body, and projects convexly upwards from between the points of attachment of the Fallopian tubes. During gestation, its convexity is greatly increased, and it surrounds a large part of the uterine cavity. The body gradually narrows as it extends from the fundus to the neck ; its sides are straight; its ante- rior and posterior surfaces are both somewhat convex, but the latter more so than the former. At the points of union of the sides with the rounded superior border or fundus, are two projecting angles, with which the Fal- lopian tubes are connected, the round ligaments being attached a little before, and the ovarian ligaments behind and beneath them : these three parts are all included in the duplicature of the broad ligaments. The 7Leck, or cervix uteri, narrower and more rounded than the rest of the organ, is from six to eight lines long ; it is continuous above with the body, and, becoming somewhat smaller towards its lower extremity, projects into the upper end of the tube of the vagina, which is united all round with the substance of the uterus, but extends upwards to a greater distance behind than in front. The projecting portion is sometimes named the vaginal part. The lower end of the uterus presents a transverse aperture, by which its cavity opens into the vagina ; this is named variously os uteri, os uteri ex- ternum, and (from some supposed likeness to the mouth of the tench fish) OS tincce. It is bounded by two thick lips, the posterior of which is the thinner and longer of the two, while the anterior, although projecting less