THE EYE. 726 water, alcoholj and otlier fluids. The outer surface is rough or slightly flocculent Ti-hen. the choroid is detached, and is in contact with, the pig- mentary layer ; and from it a more or less complete stratum may be raised with care in a perfectly fresh eye. This layer, at first called membrane of Jacob from its discoverer, is now generally recognised as the columnar layer. The inner surface of the retina is smooth, and is merely applied to the ritreous body within it : on it the following objects may be seen. In the axis of the ball is a yellov; spot—macula lutea (limbus luteus, Sommening), which is somewhat elliptical in shape, and about -^'^th of an inch in diameter: in its centre is a slight hoUow,/orea centralis, and as the retina is thinLer ?iere Fig. 475. Fig. 475,—Section through the Mii>i;le of the Optic Keeve a^d the Trsics of the Eye at the Place of its Passage theough them (from Kolliker after Ecker;. f Tbe drawing was taken from a cbromic acid j^reparation : a, arteria centralis retina ; J, fasciculi of optic nerve fibres vrith nearilemma ; c, sheath of the optic nerve, passing into c', the sclerotic coat; c", oulermf fei, pigmental layer of the choroid or membrana fusca ; d, choroid and inner j^igment layer ; c, /, columnar layer of tbe retina ; f], the two granular layeis; A, layer of nerve-cells ; ?, layer of nerve-fibres j ^, coUicu.us or eminence at the entrance of the optic nerve ; ?, lamina cribrosa, than elsewhere, the pigmentary layer of the choroid is visible through it, giving rise to the appearance of a hole through the tiinic. About tli of an inch inside the yellow spot is the round disc, porus opticus, .r- ^l.e ojjtic nerve expands, and in its centre the point from w-hich the Vc-scls of the retina branch. At this place the nervous substance is slightly elevated so as to form an eminence (collicidus nervi optici). Structcke.—Ihe retina, when examined microscopically in vertical sections, exhibits a series of dissimilar strata, together v^-ith structures not confined to one stratum. (1st) Externally is the columnar layer; (2ud), in the middle is the granular layer, comprising the external nuclear, the internuclear, the internal nuclear, and the molecular layers : and (3rd) internally is the nervous layer, conrsistiug of three strata, one of nerve ceils, another of nerve fibres—the ramiiications of the optic nerve, and on the inner surface of this last, a limiting uuemDrane. (4th) Traversing the strata from the columnar layer to the limiting membrane, are placed vertical fibrils of varying kinds at different depths, and not fully ascertained to be con- tinuous,—the radiating fibres of Miiller. (.5th) Blood-vessels distributed in the retina, are placed chiefly towards the inner surface.