949 MUSCULAR COATS, CIRCULAR FIBRES. reach the sides of the prostate. At the summit a few are continued along the urachus. The longitudinal fibres, taken together, constitute what has been named the detrusor urince muscle. The so-called circular fibres form a thin and somewhat irregular reticulated layer distributed over the body of the bladder, having various appearances in difi'erent bladders. Their course may in general be looked upon as trans- verse, but for the most part throughout the upper two-thirds of the bladder they cross one another in very oblique bands : towards the lower part of the o]:gan they assume a more circular course, and upon the fundus and trigone form a tolerably regular layer. Close to and around the cervix, in immediate connection with the prostate in the male, they densely encircle the orifice and constitute what has been named the sphincter vesicce, which, however, is not distinct from the other fibres. Fig. 666. Fig. 666, A.—View op the Muscular Fibres of the Blapder prom before (after Pettigrew and from Nature). 3 On the right side the superficial fibres are shown ; on the left the deep or circular fibres chiefly are displayed. a, on the right side, the median and most superficial bauds of the longitudinal fibres, in which a slight decussation of fibres is seen indicating Pettigrew's longest figure-8 loops ; a', those diverging somewhat; a", the lowest, which pass much more obliquely ; the attachment of the longitudinal fibres to the prostate is shown ; on the left side c, the upper, c', the middle, and c", the lowest set of circular or deeper fibres; at s, the thickest and most transverse sets of these fibres forming the sphincter ; p, half the prostate left on the right side, the left having been removed ; u, the urachus, into which some of the longitudinal fibres are seen prolonged. Fig. 666, B.—View op the Muscular Fibres op the Bladder prom behind (after Pettigrew and from Nature). ^ On the right side the superficial fibres are displayed ; on the left the deeper fibres of the same kind or intermediate fibres, and some of the circular fibres ; b, b, the median, most supel-ficial and strongest bands of longitudinal fibres on the right side ; b', the more diverging set of fibres near the middle of the bladder ; b", the most divergent fibres which surround the entrance of the ureters ; on the left side, c, c', and c", indicate the deeper circular fibi-es passing round at various levels and crossing with the deeper diverging fibres posteriorly; s, the most transveise fibres at the neck forming the sphincter ; u, the urachus ; icr, the ureters ; the left half of the prostate has been re- moved to show the sphincter ; v, part of the right vas deferens and vesicula seminalis.