574 DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. The SPINAL coRB has been found by Kolliker already in the form of a cylinder in the cervical region of an embryo four weeks old. Ununited borders have been seen by Tiedemann in the ninth week towards the lower end of the cord, the perfect closing of the furrow being delayed in that part, which is slightly enlarged and presents a longitudinal median slit, analogous to the rhomboidal sinus in birds. The anterior fissure of the cord is developed very early, and contains even at first a process of the pia mater. The cervical and lumbar enlargements opposite the attachments of the brachial and crural nerves, appear at the end of the third month : in these situations the central canal, at that time not filled up, is somewhat larger than elsewhere. Fig. 388.—Transverse Section op Half THE Cartilaginous Vertebral Column and the Spinal Cord in the Cervical Part op a Human Embryo op prom nine to ten weeks (from Kolliker). i5 c, central canal lined with epithelium ; a, anterior column ; p, posterior column ; p', band of Goll; [ganglion of the posterior root; j) r, posterior root ; a r, anterior root passing over the ganglion ; d m, dura matral sheath, omitted nearpr, to show the posterior roots ; h, body of the vertebra ; c h, chorda dorsalis ; n a, neural arch of the vertebra. At first the cord occupies the whole length of the vertebral canal, so that there is no cauda equina. In the fourth month, the vertebrae begin to grow more rapidly than the cord, and the latter seems as it were to have retired up into the canal, and the elongation of the roots of the nerves which gives rise to WiQ cauda equitia is commenced. At the ninth month, the lower end of the cord is opposite the third lumbar vertebra. In textural composition the spinal cord consists at first, after the completion of its cylindrical form, entirely of uniform-looking cells. These separate into two layers, the inner of which forms the epithelium and surrounding connective tissue, or neu- roglia of the central canal, while the outer forms the grey substance of the cord. The white substance appears later than the grey, forming a layer external to it, and sepa- rated from an early period into an antero-lateral and a posterior column on each side. At a somewhat later period the white mass of these columns, increasing greatly in size, gives rise to the formation and gradually increasing depth of the anterior and posterior median fissures. At the same time, however, the lateral masses of grey substance also undergo extension in the parts named the cornua. It would appear that the integral nerve fibres are at first developed from radiating processes which proceed from the cells of the grey substance. (Kolliker, Entwicklungs-geschichte; Lockhart Clarke, in the Phil. Trans. 1862 ; Bidder und Kupfer, Untersuch. Ub. d. Riickenmark, Leipz. 1857.) It may also be mentioned, that according to Remak and Kolliker, the roots of the spinal nerves and the ganglion are at first unconnected with the cord. The mass of blastema forming the ganglion first becomes apparent, and from this the posterior root seems to grow towards, and later to become attached to the cord, while the anterior roots seem to extend outwards from the cord and to unite themselves later with the nerve. The central canal is at first nearly cylindrical; it then becomes flattened at the side^, projecting deeply backwards and forwards. Between the eighth and tenth weeks it is greatly narrowed, and subsequently, being more and more confined to the centre, it ultimately diminishes to a small tube. The epithelial cells which line it from the first are long or columnar, and they retain this form in the ad alt. Fig. 388.