FORM OF PERMANENT TEETH. mCISORS. no bicuspids among the temporary teeth, but the eight deciduous molars are succeeded by the eight bicuspids of the permanent set. The relative posi- tion and arrangement of the different kinds of teeth in the jaws may be expressed by the following formula, which also exhibits the relation between the two sets in these respects :— MO. CA. IN. CA. MO. ( Upper 2 14 12 =10 Temporary teeth . . < ■ = 20 ( Lower 2 14 12 =10 MO. EI. CA. IN. CA. BI. MO. (Upper 3 2 1 4 1 2 3 = 16 Permanent teeth . . < — = 32 (Lower 3 2 1 4 1 2 3 = 16 Special Characters of the Permanent Teeth.—The incisors, eight in number, are the four front teeth in each jaw, and are so named from being adapted for cutting or dividing the soft substances used as food. Their crowns are chisel-shaped, and have a sharp horizontal cutting edge, which by continued use is bevelled off behind in the upper teeth, but in the lower teeth is worn down in front, where it comes in contact with the overlapping edges of the upper teeth. Before being subjected to wear, the horizontal edge of each incisor tooth is serrated or marked by three small prominent points. The Fig. 538.—Incisok Teeth of the Upper AND Lower Jaws. a, front view of the tipper and lower middle incisors ; b, front view of the upper and lower lateral incisors ; c, lateral view of the upper and lower middle incisors, showing the chisel shape of the crown ; a groove is seen marking slightly the fang of the lower tooth ; d, the upper and lower middle incisor teeth before they have been worn, showing the three pointed pro- jections of the cutting edge. anterior surface of the crown is slightly convex, and the posterior concave. The fang is long, single, conical, and compressed at the sides, where it sometimes though rarely presents a slight longitudinal furrow. The lower incisor teeth are placed vertically in the jaw, but the corre- sponding upper teeth are directed obliquely forwards. The upper incisors are, on the whole, larger than the lower ones. In the upper jaw the central incisors are larger than the lateral; the reverse is the case in the lower jaw, the central incisors being there the smaller, and being, moreover, the smallest of all the incisor teeth. The canine teeth (cuspidati), four in number, are placed one on each side, above and below, next to the lateral incisors. They are larger and stronger than the incisor teeth. The crown is thick and conical, convex in front and hollowed behind, and may be compared to that of a large incisor