915 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. and almost horizontal ; the middle are the longest, and run obliquely ; whilst the lower or external fibres are nearly vertical. Fig. 640. Fig. 640.—View op the Larynx and Part of THE Trachea from behind, with the Mus- cles DISSECTED. A, the body of the hyoid bone ; e, epiglottis ; t, the posterior boi'ders of the thyroid cartilage; c, the median ridge of the cricoid ; a, upper part of the arytenoid ; s, placed on one of the oblique fasciculi of tlie arytenoid muscle ; h, left posterior crico-arytenoid muscle ; o\ ends of the incomplete cartilaginous rings of the trachea ; If fibrous membrane crossing the back of the trachea ; n, muscular fibres exposed in a part. In connection with the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle, may be mentioned an occasional small slip in contact with its lower border, viz., the herato-cricoid muscle of Merkel. It is a short and slender bundle, arising from the cricoid cartilage near its lower border, a little behind the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, and passing obliquely outwards and upwards to be inserted into that process. It usually exists on only one side. Tui-ner found it in seven out of thirty-two bodies. It is not known to be of any physiological significance. (Merkel, Anat. und Phys. des Menschl. Stimm-und-Sprach- organs, Leipzig, 1857; Turner in Month. Med. Journal, Feb. 1860.) The lateral crico-arytenoid muscle, smaller than the posterior, and of an oblong form, is in a great measure hidden by the ala of the thyroid carti- lage. It arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, its Fig. Fig. 641. 641.—DlAGRAMMAT?0 ViEW PROM ABOVE OP THE Dissected Larynx (after Willis). 1, aperture of the glottis ; 2, arytenoid carti- ages ; 3, vocal cords; 4, posterior crico-arytenoid muscles ; 5, right lateral crico-arytenoid muscle, that of the left side being removed ; 6, arytenoid muscle ; 7, thyro-arytenoid muscle of the left side, that of the right side being removed ; 8, upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; 9, back of the cricoid cartilage ; 13, posterior crico-arytenoid ligament. origin extending as far back as the articular surface for the arytenoid cartilage. Its fibres passing obliquely backwards and up- wards, and the anterior or upper ones being the longest, are attached to the external process or outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartilage and to the adjacent part of its anterior surface, in front of the insertion of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. This muscle lies in the interval between the ala of the thyroid cartilage 3 0 2