THE KIDNEYS. 938 vein which lies in front of the artery, and ends in the inferior vena cava (p. 474). JSferves.—The nerves which have been traced into the kidneys are small. They come immediately from the renal plexus and the lesser Bplanchuic nerve, and contain filaments derived from both the sympathetic and cerebro- spinal systems. Tliey may be traced accompanying the arteries to their finer branches, but it is uncertain how they end. Intertuhular Stroma.—Between the tubules and vessels of the kidney, although they are disposed closely together, a certain very small amount of interstitial matrix exists, first described by Goodsir, then by Bowman and others, and to which attention has latterly been paid by a number of observers, and especially by Beer. This matrix is for the most part nearly homogeneous, but has a more fibrous character in the vicinity of the rami- fications of the bloodvessels. Fibres are likeAvise described by Ludwig and Zawarykin as passing round the Malpighian corpuscles, and others have been seen by Henle, coiling round the tubes of the medullary substance. The stroma is more abundant in the cortical substance than in the greater part of the medullary ; but according to Henle it is very abundant towards the apices of the papillae. Nuclei and connective tissue corpuscles are scat- tered through its substance. It is much more abundant in animals than in man, and in the human kidney it is more apparent in the young than in the adult, and is also much richer in corpuscles ; in this respect resembling the connective tissue generally. Absorbents.—The lymphatics of the kidney are numerous, consisting of a superficial set, and of deep lymphatics which issue from the hilus with the bloodvessels, i^ccording to the researches of Ludwig and Zawarykin, the stroma of the kidney forms a thick network of freely intercommunicating lymphatic spaces, guided to the surface along the tissue round the blood- vesels. These spaces are similar to those previously found by Ludwig and Tomsa in the testicle, and held by His to possess epithelial walls. They are most abundant in the cortical substance. Among roritings on live Tcidncy, the following may be here referred to :—Bowman, in Philos. Trans.. 1842; Toynbee, in Medico-Chir. Trans. 1846 ; Gcrlach, in Miiller's Arcliiv, 1845; Johnson, article Ken, in CyclopEedia of Anat. and Pliys.; Isaacs, in Trans. New York Acad, of Medicine, vol. i., 1857; Henle, Zur Anatomic der Niere, Gottingen, 1862, and in Handbuch; Ludwig and Zawarykin, in Wiener Kais. Acad. Sitzungsbericlit, vol. xlviii. 1864; Chrzonszczewsky, in Vircliow's Archiv, xxxi. 1864 ; Scliweigger-Seidel, Die Niere des Mensclien und der Saligethiere, Halle, 1865 ; Southey, in St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Eeports, 1865 ; also, on the stroma, Goodsir, in Lond. and Edin. Jom-n. of Med. Science, May, 1842 ; and Beer, Die Bindesubstanz d. Menschlichen Niere, Berlin, 1859. Development.—The development of the kidneys, and also that of the suprarenal cap- sules will be described later with that of the genito-urinary organs. The Urine.—This is a complex and somewhat variable fluid, containing in solution animal substances characterised by having a large amount of nitrogen in their composition, and derived, it would seem, from the waste of the tissues; also saline substances, and adventitious matters which have been introduced into the blood. The average quantity secreted daily is from 30 to 40 fluid ounces. Its specific gravity varies in health from 1-015 to 1-030, the average standard being 1 020. It is slightly acid in its reaction, and contains some mucus and epithelium. A thousand parts of ordinary urine usually contain 933 parts of water, and 67 of solid matter. The researches of Bowman upon the structure of the kidney in man and animals, render it probable that the solid urinary constituents are secreted by the tubuli, and that the watery part of the urine simply transudes through the vessels of the glomeruli. The following analysis of the solid contents of the urine is from lichmann, but it