799 FORMATION OF THE ENAMEL. Fig. 557. portion becomes calcified, or by the union of a series of successively formed cells arranged vertically to the surface. During its formation the enamel is soft and chalky, and can easily be separated into its com- ponent prisms. Afterwards, the membranous por- tion of it is nearly all obliterated, and the nuclei entirely disappear, or, according to Tomes, elongate Fig. 557.—A Section throuoh the Enamel Organ AND Dental Sao from the Tooth op a Child at Birth (from KoUiker). a, outer dense layer of the dental sac ; h, inner looser texture of the same with capillary bloodvessels and a somewhat denser layer towards the enamel organ; c, spongy substance ; d, inner cells; and e, outer cellular layer of the enamel organ. B, four cells of the enamel-membrane. into a very fine central canal in each fibre. It is observed by Huxley, that if the pulp is treated with acetic acid, a voluminous, transparent mem- brane is raised from the whole surface in large folds, and that the ends of the enamel fibres are to be seen beneath it. The membrane is from -j-gTyTj^^^ to t'h of an inch in thickness; is clear, trans- parent, and exhibits little ridges bounding oval or quadrangular spaces ; and is, according to him, continuous with the membrana prseformativa. Huxley, therefore, considers that the enamel appears between the dentine and the preformative mem- brane, and that the enamel organ takes no part in its formation. Tomes confirms the observation of Huxley with regard to the separability of this apparent membrane by acetic acid ; but, upon closer examination finds that it may be split in columns, which are, in conformity with his view of the structure of enamel, sheaths containing nuclei. Tomes, further, believes that these sheaths may be seen to pass through the membrane, which Huxley describes as limiting them superficially; and that^ consequently, it is not as Huxley imagines the membrana praeformativa. Waldeyer holds that the membrane described by Huxley between the enamel and the enamel organ is only a layer of the most recently formed enamel, as he finds it pos- sible always to detect enamel ceils with the ends partially calcified. He returns, therefore, to Schwann's original view, that the formation of the enamel columns is due to the direct calcification of the enamel cells. (Henle's Bericht, &c. for 1864, p. 81, and op. cit.) The Cement appears to be formed simultaneously with the dentine of the fang by the periodontal membrane. Eruption of the temporary teeth.—At the time of birth the crowns of the anterior milk- teeth, still enclosed in their sacs, are com- pleted within the jaw, and their fangs begin to be formed. Their appearance through the gums follows a regular order, but the period at which each pair of teeth is cut varies within certain