DISSECTION OF TIIK LoWKi; LIMBS. 1082 passing behind tlio femoral vessels. These last may be most easily found if the common femoral artery be previously divided (p. GG4). If the accessory obturator nerve is present, it will now bo seen passing over the brim of the pelvis to the outer border of the pectiueus muscle which it partly supplies (p. GOG). The poctineus and adductor longus muscles are then to be divided, and their attachments carefully dissected. The continuation of the profunda femoris artery behind the ailductor longus is to be cleaned ; and its four perforating branches, of wliich the fourth is the continuati-n of tlio artery, will be seen piercing the adductor maguus muscle (p. 4o'J). V/hen the pectincus muscle has been reflected, the accessory obturator nerve may be traced to its communication with the main obturator nerve, to the pec- tineus muscle, and to the hip-joint. The anterior division of the obturator nerve is to be traced down in front of the adductor brevis muscle, and on division of the pecticeus muscle its posterior division to the adductor magnus will come into view. The obturator nerve will be observed to supply all the adductor group of muscles (p. GG2). The dissector will now trace the internal circumflex artery ; he will find it dividing into two branches, one of which passes inwards in front of the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, while the other is directed backwards to anasto- mose Avith the sciatic artery, and gives off a branch to the hip-joint which enters it by the notch of the acetabulum (p. 439). The obturator externus muscle is to be cleaned, and the external and internal divisions of the obturator artery are to be laid bare from among its fibres (pp. 2G9 and 423). The adductor magnus muscle is then to be clenned and examined (p. 277) ; and after it the conjoined insertion of the psoas and iliacus muscles (p. 271) ; the vastus externus, vastus internus and crureus muscles, together with the deep fibres of the latter, called subcrureus, which are inserted into the synovial membrane of the knee-joint (p. 275). 4. JUp-joiiU.—When this stage of the dissection has been reached, the student may either saw through the femur and leave the hip-joint to a more convenient opportunity, or dissect the joint at this time, and afterwards disarticulate the femur. The latter plan is usually to be preferred. In that case, the attachments of all the muscles which act upon or are related to the hip-joint are to be reviewed, and those which remain uncut are to be severed ; the capsular ligament is to be cleaned ; its thinness or deficiency on the posterior aspect, and the thick accessory or ilio-femoral ligament, strengthening it in front, are to be noted (p. 151). The relation of the head of the femur to the acetabulum in the various positions of the limb and foot are to be observed. The capsule may then be opened, and the cotyloid, transverse, and round ligaments examined, together with the articular surfaces and synovial membrane : the limb may then be removed from the body. 5. The Bach of the Leg.—After the separation of the limb from the trunk, and when the divided structures have been cleaned and cut conveniently short, the student will proceed with the dissection of the calf and back of the leg, by directing an incision down the middle of the limb to the heel, and reflecting the skin to each side. He will trace the external and internal saphenous veins as far as the outer and inner ankle (p. 475) ; accompanying the latter he will find the internal saphenous nerve (p. 66G), and along with the former he will find the external saphenous nerve arising from the union of the communicans tibialis and communicans fibularis branches of the internal and external popliteal nerves respectively (p. 677). He will also