978 FEMALE OKGANS OF GENERATION. open), whilst tlie erectile structure correspoiidiDg to the bulb and spongy body (in two separate right and left halves) lies deeper, as will be presently explained. (Kobelt, Die miinnlichen und weiblichen WoUustorgane, 1844.) Fig. 681.*—Lateral View of the Erec- tile Structures op the External Organs in the Female (from Kobelt). | The blood-vessels have been injected, and the skin and nuicous membrane have been removed; a, bulbus vestibuli; c, plexus of veins named pars intermedia ; e, glans clitoridis; /, body of the clitoris ; A, dorsal vein ; I, right crus clitoridis; m, vestibule ; right gland of Bartholin. Between the nymphos is the angular interval called the vestibuh, in which is situated the circular orifice of the urethra, or meatus urinarius, about an inch below the clitoris and just above the entrance to the vagina. The membrane which surrounds this orifice is rather pro- minent in most instances, so as readily to indicate its situation. Immediately below the orifice of the urethra is the entrance to the vagina, which, in the virgin, is usually more or less narrowed by the hymen. This is a thin duplicature of the mucous membrane, placed at the entrance to the vagina ; its form varies very considerably in different persons, but is most frequently semilunar, the concave margin being directed forwards towards the pubes. Sometimes it is circular, and is perforated only by a small round orifice, placed usually a little above the centre ; and occa- sionally it is cribriform, or pierced with several small apertures ; and it may in rare instances completely close the vagina, constituting "imperforate hymen." On the other hand, it is often reduced to a mere fringe, or it may be entirely absent. After its rupture, some small rounded elevations remain, called caruncidce myrtiformes. The mucous membrane may be traced inwards from the borders of the labia majora, where it is continuous with the skin : it forms a fold over the vascular tissue of the nymphiB, and is then prolonged into the urethra and vagina. It is smooth, reddish in colour, is covered by a scaly epithelium, and is provided with a considerable number of mucous crypts and follicles and with glands which secrets an unctuous and odorous substance. The mucous crypts and follicles are especially distinct on the inner surface of the nymphse, and near the orifice of the urethra. The sebaceous glands are found beneath the prepuce, and upon the labia majora and outer surface of the nymphs. The glands of Bartholin (or of Duverney), corresponding to Cowper's glands in the male, are two reddish yellow round or oval bodies, about the size of a krge pea or small bean, lodged one on each side of the commencement of the vagina, between it and the erectores clitoridis muscles, beneath the superficial perineal fascia, and in front of the trans- verse muscles. Their ducts, which are long and single, run forward and Fig. 681.*