1045 LATERAL OPEEATION FOR LITHOTOMY. the forceps is introduced. The same measure may be resorted to afterwards should much resistance be experienced when the foreign body is being ex- tracted. Lastly, this part of the operation (the extraction of the stone) Fig. 718. Fig. 73 8.—View op the Distribution of the Arteries to the Viscera op the Male Pelvis, as seen on the removal op the Left Os Innominatum, &c. (fromR. Quain). ^ a, left external oblique muscle of the abdomen divided ; I, internal oblique; c, trans- versalis ; d, cl, the parts of the rectus muscle divided and separated ; e, psoas magnus muscle divided ; /, placed on the left auricular surface of the sacrum, points by a line to the sacral plexus of nerves ; g, placed on the os pubis, sawn through a little to the left of the symphysis, points to the divided spermatic cord ; h, the cut root of the crus penis ; 7, the bulb of the urethra ; Jc, elliptical sphincter ani muscle ; /, a portion of the ischium near the spinous process, to which is attached the short sacro sciatic ligament ; m, the parietal peritoneum ; ??, the upper part of the urinary bladder ; ??, n', the left vas deferens descending towards the vesicula semiualis ; n", the left ureter ; o, the intestines ; 1, the common iliac at the place of its division into external and internal iliac arteries ; 2, left external iliac artery ; 3, internal iliac ; 4, obliterated hypogastric artery, over which the vas deferens is seen passiug, Avith the superior vesical artery below it ; 5, middle vesical artery ; 6, inferior vesical artery, giving branches to the bladder, and descending on the prostate gland and to the back of the pubes ; 7, placed on the sacral plexus, points to the common trunk of the i)udic and sciatic arteries ; close above 7, the gluteal artery is seen cut short; 8, sciatic artery cut short as it is escaping from the pelvis ; 9, placed on the rectum, points to the pudic artery as it is about to pass behind the spine of the ischium ; I', on the lower part of the rectum, points to the inferior htemorrhoidal branches ; 9" on the perinseura, indicates the superficial perineal branches ; 9"', placed on the prostate gland, mai-ks the pudic artery as it gives off the arteries of the bulb and of the crus penis; 10, placed on the middle part of the rectum, indicates the superior haemorrhoidal arteries as they descend upon that viscus. should be conducted slowly, so as gradually to dilate the parts without lace- rating them ; and the forceps should be held with its blades one above the other. The Structures divided in the Oiieration.—In the first incision the integu- ment and the subjacent fatty layer are divided ; afterwards a small part