Fig. 577.— Outline of the anterior 824 THE ABDOMEN. Fig. 577. into three parts by means of two perpendicular lines, drawn from the carti- lage of the eighth rib, on each side, down to the centre of Poupart's liga- ment. The upper zone is thus marked off into the right and left hypochondriac regions and the epigastric region, the depression in the upper part of which is called scrohiculus cordis, or pit of the stomach. The middle zone is divided into the umhilical region in the centre, and the right and left umbar regions ; and the inferior zone into the hypogastric region in the centre, and the iliac region at each side. On opening the abdominal cavity from the front, the viscera are seen to lie in an upper and lower group, separated by the great omentum, which overhangs those in the lower part. The surfaces, which are in contact one with another, and with the wall of the cavity, are rendered glistening by reflections over them of the lining membrane of the cavity, the peritoneum ; and the various organs are found to be attached by means of folds or dupli- catures of that membrane, termed mesenteries and omenta, which include the blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatics belonging to each organ. In the upper group, as seen from before, are comprised the liver, stomach, and a small part of the intestine j in the lower group, more or less hidden by SURFACE OF THE AbDOMEN, SHOWING THE DIVISION INTO REGIONS. 1, epigastric region ; 2, umbilical; 3, hypogastric ; 4, 4, right and left hypo- chondriac ; 5, 5, right and left lumbar; 6, 6, right and left iliac. the great omentum, are the re- maining parts of the alimentary canal. The spleen, pancreas, and kidneys constitute a deeper group. On the right side, projecting downwards from beneath the dia- phragm is the liver with its ex- cretory apparatus, which occupies the right hypochondrium and part of the epigastrium, and extends a short way into the left hypochon- drium ; to the left, and partly beneath the liver, is the stomach, which lies in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions ; and closely applied to the left or cardiac end of the stomach is the spleen. The stomach is seen to be connected at its right extremity, named the pylorus, with the small intestine. The first part of the small intestine, named duodenum, forms a deep curve projecting towards the right side, resting on the posterior wall of the abdominal cavity and right kidney, and terminating at the left of the middle line, where it emerges from behind the root of the mesentery, and passes into the second part of the intestine, named jejunum. The hollow of the curve of the duodenum is occupied by the large right extremity or head of the pancreas. The remainder of the small in- testine, comprising the jeju7ium in its upper two-fifths, and the ileum in the