DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 1056 course, the inferior dental, tlie middle meningeal giving off the small menin- geal artery, the two deep temporal, the pterygoid and other muscular branches : next, more deeply within the pterygoid muscles, the posterior superior dental and the infraorbital branches (p. 354). The chorda tympani nerve is to be dissected upwards to the fissure of Glaser, from its point of junction with the gustatory nerve under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are to be traced back to the foramen ovale (p. 605) : the auriculo-temporal nerve will fre- quently be found embracing the middle meningeal artery. The internal pterygoid muscle is to be examined as far as it can be laid bare (p. 181). The auriculo-temporal division of the inferior maxillary nerve is then to be traced to its distribution, and the pinna of the ear is to be dissected so as to bhow the form and extent of its cartilage, the small muscles on its surface, and the final distribution of its nerves (p. 741), 7. 2^/16 Orbit—The dissection of the orbit and the parts passing into it may next be proceeded with. Let a vertical cut be made with the saw through the frontal bone, near the inner angle of the orbit, immediately above the fovea trochlearis ; and another from above the ear, downwards and forwards, through the lateral wall of the skull, towards the sphenoidal fissure. Remove the outer part of the malar bone with the bone-nippers, separate carefully with the handle of the knife the periosteum and con- tents of the orbit from the upper and outer walls, and unite the inner saw-cut with the sphenoidal fissure, immediately outside the optic foramen, by means of the chisel ; then, with the bone-nippers, remove the isolated piece of bone so as to unroof the orbit, and afterwards divide the periosteum longitudinally, and reflect it. On the upper surface of the contents of the orbit posteriorly is the fourth nerve, which is to be traced forwards from the cavern- ous sinus where it enters the orbital surface of the trochlearis muscle, and that muscle is to be displayed (pp. 594 and 179). The frontal nerve, occupying the middle of the space, is to be traced back to its origin from the ophthal- mic division of the fifth nerve (p. 597). The lachrymal gland is to be exposed (p. 709) ; and from its posterior border the lachrymal nerve is to be traced back to its origin from the ophthalmic nerve, while at the same time its malar branch and palpebral distribution may also be seen. The levator palpebrse muscle, and the inferior, external and internal recti muscles are to be displayed (p. 179), and the ocular surface of each cleared ; when the sixth nerve will be seen ending in the external rectus, and branches of the third in the other three recti muscles. These nerves are now to be traced backwards between the two heads of origin of the external rectus muscle to the cavernous sinus (pp. 593 and 610). Below the superior rectus muscle the nasal nerve, derived from the ophthalmic, will be seen crossing the optic nerve ; it will be followed to the anterior internal orbital foramen, and its infratrochlear branch traced to the lower eyelid ; it is then to be dissected back to its origin, and the long and deli- cate root of the lenticular ganglion sought for on the outer side of the optic nerve. The ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion is on the outside of the optic nerve, and may be most easily found by tracing the short and thick twig which runs into it from the inferior division of the third nerve. In front of the ganglion its ciliary branches may be seen (p. 599). The remainder of the fat is to be removed from the lower part of the orbit ; the distribution of the ophthalmic artery is to be displayed (p. 360) ; and the lower division of the third nerve is to be traced forwards to the inferior rectus and obliquus muscles. By a slight dissection from the. front