603 SPHENO-PALATINE GAKGLIOK SPHETSrO-PALATINE GANGLION. The spheno-palatine gaDglioiij frequently named Meckel's ganglion, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen. It receives the two spheno-palatine branches, which descend together from the superior maxillary nerve as it crosses the top of the fossa. It is of a greyish colour, triangular in form, and convex on the outer surface. The grey or ganglionic substance does not involve all the fibres of the spheno-palatine branches of the upper maxillary nerve, but is placed at the back part, at the point of junction of the sympathetic or deep branch of the Vidian, so that the spheno-palatine nerves proceeding to the nose and palate pass to their destination without being incorporated with the ganglionic mass. Branches proceed from the ganglion upwards to the orbit, downwards to the palate, inwards to the nose, and backwards through the Vidian and pterygo-palatine canals. Ascending Branches.—There are three or more very small twigs, which reach the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and are distributed to the periosteum. Bock describes a branch ascending from the ganglion to the sixth Jierve; Tiede- mann, one to the lower angle of the ophthalmic ganglion. The filaments described by Hirzel as ascending to the optic nerve, most probably join the ciliary twigs which surround that nerve. Descending Branches.—These are three in number,—the large, the small, and the external palatine nerves, and are continued chiefly from the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary. They are distri- buted to the tonsil, the hard and soft palate, the gums, and the mucous membrane of the nose. a. The larger or anterior palatine nerve, descends in the palato-maxillary canal, and divides in the roof of the mouth into branches, which are received into grooves in the hard palate, and extend forwards nearly to the incisor teeth. In the mouth it supplies the gums, the glandular structure and the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and joins in fi'ont with the naso-palatine nerve. When entering its canal, this palatine nerve gives a nasal branch which ramifies on the middle and lower spongy bones; and a little before leaving the canal, another branch is supplied to the membrane covering the lower spongy bone: these are inferior nasal branches. Opposite the lower spongy bone springs a small branch, which is continued to the soft palate in a separate canal behind the trunk of the nerve. h. The smaller or posterior palatine branch, arising near the preceding nerve, enters with a small artery the lesser palatine canal, and is conducted to the soft palate, the tonsil^ and the uvula. According to Meckel, it supplies the levator palati muscle. c. The external palatine nerve, the smallest of the series, courses between the upper maxilla and the external pterygoid muscle, and enters the external palatine canal between the maxillary bone and the pterygoid process of the palate bone. At its exit from the canal it gives inwards a branch to the uvula, and outwards another to the tonsil and palate. Occasionally, this nerve is altogether wanting. Internal Branches.—These consist of the naso-palatine, and the upper and anterior nasal, which ramify in the lining membrane of the nasal fossse and adjoining sinuses. The upper nasal are very small branches, and enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. Some are prolonged to the upper and posterior part of the septum, and the remainder ramify in the membrane covering R n 2