Fig. 627. Fig. 627.—Portion op the STRUCTURE OF THE AIR-TUBES. 809 but sometimes three branches arise together, and often lateral branches are given olf at intervals from the sides of a main trunk. The larger branches diverge at rather acute angles, but the more remote and smaller ramifications spring less and less acutely. After a certain stage of subdivision each bron- chial tube is reduced to a very small size, and, forming what has been termed a lobular bronchial tube, enters a distinct pulmonary lobule, within which it undergoes still farther division, and at last ends in the small cellular recesses named air-cells or jpuhnonary calls. Within the lungs the air-tubes are not flattened behind like the bronchi and trachea, but form completely cylindrical tubes. Hence, although they contain the same elements as the larger air passages, reduced gradually to a state of greater and greater tenuity, they possess certain peculiarities of structure. Thus, the cartilages no longer appear as imperfect rings running only upon the front and lateral surfaces of the air-tube, but are scattered over all sides of the tube in the form of irregularly shaped plates of various sizes. These are most developed at the points of <]ivision of the bronchia, where they form a sharp concave ridge projecting inwards into the tube. They may be traced, becoming rarer and rarer and more reduced in size, as far as bronchia only one-fourth of a line iu diameter, beyond which the tubes are entirely membranous. The fibrous coat extends to the very smallest tubes, becoming thinner by degrees and degenerating into areolar tissue. The mucous membrane, which extends throughout the whole system of air passages, and is continuous with that lining the air-cells, is also thinner than in the trachea and bronchus, but it retains its ciliated columnar epithelium. The yellow longitudinal bundles of clastic fibres are very dis- tinct in both the large and small bronchia, and may be followed by dissection as far as the tube can be laid open, and by the microscope into the smallest Outer Surface op the Cow's Lung (from Kol- liker after Harting). iH? a, pulmonary vesicles filled artificially with wax ; h, the margins of the smallest lobules or infundibula. tubes. The muscular fibres, which in the trachea and bronchi are confined to the back part of the tube, surround the bron- chial tubes with a con- tinuous layer of annular fibres, lying inside the irregular cartilaginous plates ; they are found, however, beyond the place where the cartilages cease to exist, and appear as irregular annular fasciculi even in the smallest tubes. Air-cells or Pulmonary vesicles.—These cells, in which the finest ramifi- cations of each lobular bronchial tube ultimately terminate, are in the natural state always filled with air. They are readily seen on the surface and in a section of a lung which has been inflated with air and dried ; 3 N 2