SUEGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINJ^UM. 1038 sufficiently described (p. 97). The anterior portion of the space, which is appropriated to the urethra and the penis, is named the peiinceum. This part is triangular, the sides being formed by the sides of the pubic arch meeting at the symphysis pubis, while a line extended between the two ischial tuberosities represents the base of the triangle. In well-formed bodies the three sides of the space are equal in length ; but cases occur in which, by the approximation of the ischiatic tuberosities, the base is narrowed ; and we may anticipate the practical application of the anatomical facts so far as to state here, that this circumstance exercises a material influence on the operation of lithotomy, inasmuch as the incisions required in that operation, instead of being oblique in their direction, must, in such circum- stances, be made more nearly straight backwards. That portion of the outlet of the pelvi§ which lies behind the perinseum may be named the ischio-rectal region. It contains the end of the rectum ; and it is defined by the ischial tuberosities, the coccyx, and the great gluteal muscles. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the two parts thus mapped out. The skin of the perinoeum continued from the scrotum, and partaking of the characters it has on that part, is dark-coloured, thin, and extensible, loosely connected with the subjacent textures, and in the male body studded with crisp hairs. Around the anus, it is thrown into folds, which are necessary to allow the extension of the orifice of the bowel, during the passage of masses of fsecal matter ; and along the middle of the perinseum the median ridge or raphe of the scrotum is continued backwards to the anus. By this mark upon the skin, the large triangle in which is comprised Fig. 713. Fig. 713.—Superficial Dissection of the Perineum and part of the Thighs. a, superficial fascia; 6, accelerator urinse ; c, erector penis; d, transversus perinsei; e, upper point of sphincter aui ; /, the edge of the gluteus maximus ; 1, superficial perineal artery; 2, superficial perineal nerve.