LAEYN"X.—DEEP MUSCLES, &c., OF HEAD AND NECK. 1059 The larynx and tongue are to be separated from the upper j aw, and the surface of the tongue and the tonsils examined, as well as such of the intrinsic muscles of the tongue as may be visible (p. 805). The dissectors will then proceed to the study of the larjnx, carefully cleaning it (p. 905) ; and after the glottis and true and false vocal cords have been sufficiently inspected, they may remove the mucous membrane, tracing at the same time the distribution of the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves, and the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery. The muscles of the larynx will then be fully dissected. The crico-thyroid, the arytenoid, the aryteno- epiglobtidean, and the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles can be seen without injuring the cartilages ; but to expose the lateral crico-arytenoid and the thyro-arytenoid muscles, it is necessary to remove the upper part of one ala of the thyroid cartilage. Lastly, the ventricles and pouches of the larynx are to be examined, the vocal ligaments are to be dissected out, and, the muscular substance having been removed from the cartilages, their uniting ligaments, and the joints by which they move on one another, are to be studied. In concluding this stage of the dissection, let a vertical section of the nares and hard palate be made on one side of the septum nasi. Let the meatus of the nose, the nasal duct, and the maxillary antrum be exa- mined (p. 773) ; and, if the subject is in good condition, a view may be obtained of the palatine and naso-palatine branches of the spheno- palatine ganglion, as well as of the distribution of the descending palatine artery in the palate (pp. 603 and 357). 12. Deep Muscles and articulations of the Nech and Head.—The muscles attached to the cervical vertebrae are now to be examined. In front of the vertebral column, the student will observe the scaleni, longus colli, recti capitis antici major and minor, and rectus lateralis muscles (p. 193) ; then turning to the posterior aspect, he will dissect the remains of the levator anguli scapulse (p. 203), splenius, trachelo-mastoid and complexus muscles to their attachments (p. 234), and notice the portion of the occipital artery covered by the splenius, with its branch the princeps cervicis (p. 351). The recti capitis postici major and minor, and the obliqui capitis superior and inferior, with the suboccipital nerve supplying them, are to be dissected out (pp. 239 and 632), and the course of the vertebral artery displayed as it lies in the groove of the atlas (p. 367). Lastly, the arches of the vertebrae are to be removed, and the joints and ligaments examined, especially those between the atlas, axis, and occipital bone, among which the transverse ligament of the atlas and the crucial and odontoid ligaments require particular attention (p. 125). IT.—UPPER LIMBS OR SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. The right and left limbs constitute each a part. Their dissection should extend over a period of not less than four weeks. They each include, along with the limb itself, the axilla or armpit, and the struc- tures which lie between the trunk of the body and the bones of the shoulder and arm. The muscles of the back and the spinal cord are also to be dissected by those having the upper limbs. The omo-hyoid muscle, however, and the upper parts of the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, splenius, trachelo-mastoid, and complexus muscles should be left uninjured for the dissectors of the head and neck. The inferior boundary of this part on the trunk of the body is indicated by a line passing along the 3 z 2