STRUCTURE OF THE DENTINE. 785 The central cavity of a tooth is called the pul^) cavity, because it is occupied and accurately filled by a soft, highly vascular, and sensitive substance, Fig. 543. •Sections of an Incisor and Molar Tooth. Fig. 543. The longitudinal sections show the whole of the pulp cavity in the incisor and molar teeth, its extension upwards within the crown and its prolongation downwards into the fangs with the small aperture at the point of each ; these and the cross section show the relation of the dentine and enamel. called the dental pulp. This pulp con- sists of areolar filaments, amongst which numerous nuclei and cells are rendered visible by the action of acetic acid. It is well supplied with vessels and nerves, which are derived from Fig. 544.—Magnified Longitudinal Section of a Fig. 544. Bicuspid Tooth (after Retzius). 1, the ivory or dentine, showing the direction and pri- mary curves of the dental tubuli; 2, the pulp-cavity with the small apertures of the tubuli into it; 3, the cement or crusta petrosa covering the fang as high as the border of the enamel at the neck, exhibiting lacunse ; 4, the enamel resting on the dentine ; this has been worn away by use from the upper part. the internal maxillary artery and the fifth pair, and which enter the cavity through the small aperture at the point of each fang. The solid portion of the tooth is composed of three distinct substances, viz. the proper dental substance, ivory or dentine, the enamel, and the cement or crusta petrosa. The dentine constitutes by far the larger part of the hard substance of a tooth ; the enamel is found only upon the exposed part or crown ; and the cement covers with a thin layer the surface of the implanted portion or fang. A fourth variety of tissue, osteodentine, is formed within the dentine, at the expense of the pulp, as age advances. A. The dentine, (Owen,) forming the principal mass or foundation of the body and root of a tooth, gives to both of these parts their general form, and immediately encloses the central cavity. It resembles very compact bone in its general aspect and chemical relations, but is not identical with it in structure, or in the exact proportions of its earthy and animal constituents. According to the analyses of Berzelius and Bibra, the dentine of human teeth consists of 28 parts per cent, of animal, and 72 of earthy matter. The former is resolvable into gelatin by boiling. The composition of the latter^ according to Bibra, is as follows, viz., phosphate of lime 66 "7 per cent., carbonate of lime 3*3, phosphate of magnesia and other salts, including a trace of fluoride of calcium, 1 -8. Berzelius found 5 -3 carbonate of lime. 3 F