1074 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. into the right gastro-epiploic wliich auaatomosos with the left gastro-opiploic, and the superior pancrcatico-duodenal wliich anaatoinoaes with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric artery. The inferior mesenteric vein will be traced upwards behind the pancreas to join the splenic vein, which, passing transversely onwards to meet the superior mesenteric vein, will be seen to form with it the trunk of the vena portoe (p. 470). The position of the common bile duct with reference to the hepatic artery and portal vein is to bo observed, and the duct is to be traced up into the hepatic and cystic ducts and downwards to the duodenum (p. 867). The relations and structure of the pancreas are then to be examined, and the pancreatic duct is to be traced along its posterior aspect to its termination in the duodenum along with the common bile duct (p. 881). The spleen may now be removed, its blood-vessels dissected, a section made of it, and some of the pulp may bo washed away to show the trabecular structure in the interior of the organ (p. 883). The stomach may now be removed along with the duodenum, and a careful examination made of the structure of these organs ; the shape of the stomach, its three layers of muscular fibres, and the construction of the pyloric valve being specially noted (p. 830). The liver is next to be studied. Its ligaments, viz., the falciform liga- ment, the round ligament or obliterated umbilical vein, the coronary, and the two lateral or triangular ligaments are first to be examined ; after which the organ may be removed from the body (p. 8G5). In doing this, the inferior vena cava must be divided both above and below the liver. The dissectors may now observe the division of the liver into a right and left lobe, as also the quadrate. Spigelian, and caudate lobes : they will like- wise note the various fissures, viz., the transverse or portal; the longitudinal or antero-posterior, divided into an anterior part containing the remains of the umbilical vein, and a posterior part in which the remains of the ductus venosus are situated ; the fissure or fossa of the gall bladder, and the fissure or fossa of the vena cava (p. 8G2). They will observe the openings of the hepatic veins into the part of the vena cava imbedded in the posterior border of the liver, and follow the divisions of the hepatic arteries, portal vein and hepatic ducts, as far as possible into the substance of the liver. In doing this the capsule of Glisson sheathing these parts is to be observed : the appearance of the substance of the liver may then bo exhibited by minuter dissection ; and the gall-bladder having been opened and washed, the structure of its coats and the peculiar reticulated arrangement of its mucous membrane may be examined. 6. Veej-) Posterior part of the Abdominal Cavity.—On returning to the examination of the parts remaining in the abdomen, the dissectors will begin by tracing out the plexuses of the sympathetic nerves. The superior and inferior mesenteric plexuses, in connection with the aortic plexus, are to be traced upwards into the solar plexus, and the nerves proceeding from the aortic plexus downwards into the hypogastric plexus. The solar plexus ■will be found surrounding the aorta at the root of the coeliac axis ; also, its semilunar ganglia, one on each side, and the splanchnic nerves passing through the crura of the diaphragm to terminate in it (p. 699). The dissectors will now follow the plexiform nerves which emanate from the solar plexus and surround the arteries in the neighbourhood ; namely, the coeliac plexus subdividing into hepatic, splenic and coronary ; also, the supra-renal and renal, and the spermatic plexuses. In doing this the supra- renal capsules will fall under observation, and care is to be taken in the