SUPERFICIAL AXD DEEl' rElUNEAL FASCLE. 1(139 the whole perinccum, is subdivided into two equal parts. To one of these smaller spaces the operations usually perfonued for gaining access to the urinary bladder are for the most part restricted. The skin of the permajuui is provided with numerous sebaceous follicles. From the muscles of the periiu\ium the skin is separated by areolar tissue and fat, except in the neighbourhood of the anus, where the sphincter of the bowel is immediately in contact with the integument. The deeper part of the fatty subcutaneous membrane,—the superficial fascia (p. 259),— taking on a fibrous appearance, has, in a great measure, the ?ame arrange- ment and characters as the corresponding structure of the groin. With that membrane the layer is continuous in front through the scrotum, but at other points it is confined to the perintBum, being fixed laterally to the sides of the pubic arch, while it is continued posteriorly, beneath the sphincter ani and in front of the rectum, into the deep perineal fascia. It is in consequence of these connections of the superficial fascia, that abscesses do not attain a large size in the perinreum, and that urine effused in consequence of rupture of the urethra does not extend backwards to the rectum or outw^ards to the thigh, but continues forwards, and, if an outlet for its escape should not be afforded by the surgeon, reaches successively the scrotum, the penis, and the groin above Poupart's ligament. In extreme cases the extravasated fluid would spread from the position last mentioned over the anterior part of the abdomen and even to the thorax, its extension downwards to the thigh being restrained by the attachment of the super- ficial fascia along the fold of the groin. Fig. 714. Fig. 714. —Deeper Dissection of the Pkrin.eum. The perineal muscles have been removed and also the fat in the ischio-rectal fossa ; a, superficial fascia ; b, accelerator urinoe ; r, crus penis ; d, the bulb ; e, triangular liga- ment of the urethra ; /, levator ani ; //, sphincter ; h, tuberosity of the ischium ; k, gUiteus maxiraus ; *, Cowpers gland of the left side; 1, pudic artery ; 2, superficial perineal artery and nerve. The inferior hzemorrhoidal arteries and the artery of the bulh are likewise shown.