1048 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 4. It is to be observed that, altliougb in tbe special directions all the organs mentioned are supposed to be brought under review in one dissection, it may be necessary for the student, in order to obtain a full knowledge of them, to dissect each of the parts more than once. This is especially the case with the head and neck. It is incumbent therefore upon the student to make a selection of different objects in each dissection, under the guidance of the demonstrator, in order that he may progressively obtain a full view of the whole. 5. Those students who have not previously dissected, are recommended to select the limbs for their first and second dissections, after they shall have obtained a suflBcient knowledge of the bones and joints ; and for the most part, the junior students ought not, in a fir^st or second dissection, to attempt to expose more than the muscles atid the largest vessels and nerves. In their third and subsequent dissections they will gradually come to make a more complete display of all the parts. 6. In the dissection of the limbs, no interference between the dissectors of opposite sides can occur; but in the head and neck, thorax and abdomen, there is a necessity for the students who are engaged with the parts of opposite sides to act in concert. The viscera must be examined by them together, and it will frequently happen that the dissectors of only one side can work at the same time. When such is the case, the one dissector should give his assistance to the other by reading or otherwise ; and it will some- times be found advantageous for those having the same parts of opposite sides to make in concert different kinds of dissections on the opposite sides of the body ; as for example, to dissect the muscles chiefly on one side, and the vessels and nerves on the other, or the orbit from above on one side, and in a lateral view on the other, etc. 11. SPECIAL DIRECTIONS FOP. THE DISSECTION OF EACH PART. I.—HexVd and Neck. The light and left sides of this region constitute each a part. Its dissec- tion may occupy the full time, or about six weeks ; two hours or more daily being devoted to it. Its inferior boundary extends from the sternum, along the clavicle, to the acromion process ; and thence to the spinous process of the third cervical vertebra. It may be found impossible to follow out in one part the whole of the dissections indicated below ; and therefore the dissector ought rather, if his time is limited, to make a selection for repeated dissections, following, as nearly as possible, the methods depcribsd. Many of the smaller points of detail may be passed over by the junior student ; and there are some which can only be observed in a favourable condition of the subject. 1. Integument of the Cranium.—The subject being placed with the face downwards, during the first two days, the scalp and the back of the neck (to the third cervical vertebra) are to be dissected ; and while this is beiug done, only one dissector should work at a time. An incision is to be made along the middle line, from the spinous process of the third cervical verte- bra, forwards over the head, to the root of the nose, and another from immediately behind the ear to meet the first at the vertex, care being taken not to cut deeper than through the skin. The flaps of integument thus marked out are to be reflected from above downwards, the posterior one first.