897 GENERAL STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. to 20 cubic inches by tlie presence of a full meal in the stomach. (Hutchinson, in Journal of Statistical Society, August, 1844; and in Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. xxix., 1846 ; also, in the article " Tliorax," in Cyclopcedia of Anatomy and Phy- siology, and the article " Respiration," by Reid, in the same.) Texture and consistence.—The substance of the lung is of a light porous spongy structure, and, when healthy, is buoyant in water : but in the foetus, before respiration has taken place, and also in certain cases of congestion, col- lapse, or consolidation from disease, the entire lungs, or portions of them, sink in that fluid. The specific gravity of a healthy lung, as found after death, varies from 345 to 746, water being 1000. When the lung is fully distended its specific gravity is 126, whilst that of the pulmonary substance, entirely deprived of air, is 1056. (Krause.) When pressed between the fingers, the lungs impart a crepitant sensation, which is accompanied by a peculiar noise, both eff"ects being caused by the air contained in the tissue. On cutting into the lung, the same crepitation is heard, and there exudes from the cut surface a reddish frothy fluid, which is partly mucus from the air tubes and air cells, and partly a serous exudation, tinged with blood, and rendered frothy by the admixed air. This fluid escapes in largest quantity from the posterior portion of the lung. The pulmonary tissue is endowed with great elasticity, in consequence of which the lungs collapse to about one-third of their bulk, when the thorax is opened, and the resistance offered by the walls of that cavity to the atmos- pheric pressure on their outer surface is in this way removed. Owing to this elasticity also, the lungs, if artificially inflated out of the body, contract to their previous volume, when the air is again allowed to escape. Colour.—In infancy the lungs are of a pale rose-pink colour, which might be compared to blood-froth ; but as life advances they become darker, and are mottled or variegated with spots, patches, and streaks of dark slate- colour, which sometimes increase to such a degree as to render the surface almost uuiformly black. The dark colouring matter found in these streaks is in the form of granules and collections of granules, not inclosed in cells; it is deposited in the interstitial areolar tissue mostly near the surface of the lung, and is not found so abundantly in the deeper substance. It exists sometimes in the air cells, and on the coats of the larger vessels. Its quantity increases with age, and is said to be less abundant in females than in males. In persons who follow the occupation of quarricrs, more especially colliers, the lungs are often intensely charged with black matter. The black colouring substance of the lung seems to be composed of a mixture of carbon and some animal matter. A black substance of precisely the same nature is found in the bronchial glands. In exceptional cases the adult lungs are found with only very slight streaks of pigment. Root of the Lung. The root of each lung is composed of the bronchus and the large blood- vessels, together with the nerves, lymphatic vessels, and glands, connected together by areolar tissue, and enclosed in a sheath of the pleura. The root of the right lung lies behind the superior vena cava and part of the right auricle, and below the azygos vein, which arches over it to enter the superior cava. That of the left lung passes below the arch of the aorta, and in front of the descending aorta. The phrenic nerve descends in front of the root of each lung, and the pneumogastric nerve behind, whilst the ligamentum latum pulmonis is continued from the lower border. The bronchus, together with the bronchial arteries and veins, the lymphatics