582 THE CRANIAL NERVES. The pia mater and dura mater have both been detected about the seventh or eighth week, at which period the tentorium cerebelli exists. At the third month, the falx cerebri, with the longitudinal and lateral sinuses, are perceptible ; and the choroid plexuses of both the lateral and fourth ventricles are distinguishable. No trace of arachnoid, however, can be seen until the fifth month. II. THE CEREBRO-SPIJSrAL NERVES. The nerves directly connected with the great cerebro-spinal centre constitute a series of symmetrical pairs, the number of which has been variously estimated from forty to forty-three. Of these nerves, when esti- mated at the smaller number, nine issue from the cranium through different foramina or apertures in its base, and are thence strictly named cranial. The tenth nerve passes out between the occipital bone and the first vertebra, and the remaining thirty nerves all issue below the corresponding vertebral pieces of the spine. To the whole series of thirty-one nerves the name of spinal is usually given. A.—CRANIAL NERVES. The cranial nerves, besides being named numerically, according to the relative position of the apertures for their exit from the cranium, have likewise been distinguished by other names, according to the place or mode of their distribution, and according to their functions or other circum- stances. The number of the cranial nerves has been variously stated as nine or as twelve by different anatomists ; the difference consisting mainly in this, that, under one system, the nerves which enter the internal auditory meatus, and those which pass through the jugular foramen, are in each case considered a single pair (seventh and eighth) divisible into parts ; while under another system each of the nerves is held to constitute a distinct pair. The following table presents a synoptical view of the cranial nerves under these two modes of enumeration, as in the respective systems of Willis and of Sommerring :— Willis.* First pair of nerves Second ,, Third ,, Fourth ,, Fifth Sixth Seventh „|°^^""f. durus. Eighth Ninth ' In. mollis accessonus SCEMMERRING. First pair of nerves Second ,, Third Fourth Fifth ,, Sixth ,, Seventh ,, Eighth ,, Ninth Tenth Eleventh ,, Twelfth ,, Olfactory nerves. Optic. Oculo motor. Pathetic or trochlear. Trifacial or trigeminal. Abducent ocular. Facial motor. Auditory. Grlosso-pharyngeal. Pneumo-gastric. Spinal accessory. Hypoglossal or lingual motor. The arrangement of Sommerring is the preferable one, as being the simplest and most natural ; for each of the parts included in the seventh and eighth pairs of Willis is really a distinct nerve. But as the plan of Willis is still in more general use, it will most conveniently be followed here. The cranial nerves will therefore, when not otherwise designated, be referred to as consisting of nine pairs. * Willis described the glosso-pharyngeal nerve as a branch of the vagus, and included the suboccipital nerve as a tenth among the cranial nerves.