985 STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. and are thinnest at the entrances of the Fallopian tubes. The tissue is very dense ; it is composed of bundles of muscular fibres of the plain variety, of small size in the unimpregnated uterus, interlacing with each other, but disposed in bands and layers, intermixed with much fibro-areolar tissue, a large number of blood-vessels and lymphatics, and some nerves. The areolar tissae is more abundant near the outer surface. The arrange- ment of the muscular fibres is best studied in the uterus at the full period of gestation, in which the bands and layers formed by them become aug- mented in size, and much more distinctly developed. They may be referred to three sets or orders, viz., external, internal, and iutermediate. Those of the external set are arranged partly in a thin superficial sheet, immediately beneath the peritoneum, and partly in bands and incomplete strata, situated more deeply. A large share of these fibres arch transversely over the fundus and adjoining part of the body of the organ, and converge at either side towards the commencement of the round ligaments, along which they are prolonged to the groin. Others pass off in like manner to the Fallopian tubes, and strong transverse bands from the anterior and posterior surfaces are extended into the ovarian ligaments. A considerable number of thinly- scattered fibres also pass at each side into the duplicature of the broad ligament, and others are described as running back from the cervix of the uterus into the recto-uterine folds or plicae semilunares. The fibres of the subperitoneal layer are much mixed with areolar tissue, especially about the middle of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus, in which situation many of the superficial fibres appear to have as it were a median attachment from which they diverge. The fibres on the inner surface of the uterus are disposed with comparative regularity in its upper part, being arranged there in numerous concentric rings round the openings of the two Fallopian tubes, the outermost and largest circles of the two series meeting from opposite sides in the middle of the uterus. Towards the cervix the internal fibres run more transversely; elsewhere they take various directions. The intermediate fibres, between the external and internal set, pass in bands among the blood-vessels, following less regular courses. The mucous membrane which lines the uterus is thin and closely adherent to the subjacent substance, especially in the body of the organ. It is con- tinued from the vagina, and into the Fallopian tubes. Between the rugse of the cervix, already described, it is provided with numerous mucous follicles and glands. There are also occasionally found in the same situa- tion certain small transparent vesicular bodies, which, from an erroneous opinion as to their nature, were named the ovula Nabothi. They appear to be closed and obstructed mucous follicles, distended with a clear viscous fluid. In the inferior third or half of the cervix, the mucous membrane presents papillae covered with ciliated epithelium. In the body of the uterus the mucous membrane is thin, smooth, soft, and of a reddish-white colour. When viewed with a magnifying lens, it is found to be marked with minute dots, which are the orifices of nume- rous simple tubular glands, somewhat like those of the intestine. Some of these tubular glands are branched, and others are slightly twisted into a coil. These glands can be distinctly seen in the unimpregnated and in the virgin uterus, but they become enlarged and more conspicuous after im- pregnation (fig. 686). The epithelium is columnar and ciliated. Ligaments of the uterus.—Where the peritoneum is reflected from the uterus to the bladder in front, and to the rectum behind, it forms, in each