BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE LABYRmTH. 767 cilia projecting from their upper extremities. The inner ciliated cells form a single row resting on the articulating ends of the inner rods : the outer ciliated cells (pedunculated cells of Corti) are placed in three rows external to the outer rods, and are described as attached by pointed extremities to the membrana basilaris, and with their ciliated ends opposite the three rows of openings in the lamina reticularis ; so that sometimes when the lamina is detached the ends of the cells are detached with it. Alternating with the outer ciliated cells are the cells of DeiterSf which are fusiform and prolonged into a thread at each extremity, one passing up to the lamina reticularis, and the other down to the outer zone of the membrana basilaris. The upper surface of the remaining part of the basilar membrane is covered with hexagonal epithelium cells. The sulcus spiralis is likewise filled with large epithelial cells, which, according to KoUiker, project in a swelling distinct from the proper organ of Corti. The mode of termination of the nerves, as has been already said, is uncer- tain, but minute fibres, consisting of axis-cylinders only, have been traced by Deiters into the organ of Corti, and his statements receive some support from Kolliker and Henle. These fibres are said to divide into a radiating set distributed both above and beneath the rods, and into a spiral set which are continued in the longitudinal direction of the canal. The membrana tectoria is described by Henle as presenting three zones. The inner of these is delicate and presents large openings corresponding to elevations of the limbus ; the middle or generally recognised part is formed of layers of fibres directed outwards, but yet crossing each other ; and the outer part, mirecognised by most observers, is extremely delicate, forming a network, the openings in which are elongated in the direction of the canal. The membrane of JReissner is an extremely easily torn membrane, on both sides of which epithelium has been described. On the microscopic anatomy of the cochlea may be consulted Henle's Systematische Anatomic; KoUiker's Gewebelehre, 4th edition; also the papers of Corti, Claudius, Deiters, and Hensen, in Vols. III., VII., X., and XIII. of Siebold and Kblliker's Zeitsch. f Wissensch. Zoologie; and Deiters, Untersuchungen iiber die Lamina Spiralis Membranacea. BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE LABYRINTH. Arteries.—The internal auditory artery, a branch from the basilar, enters the internal meatus of the ear with the auditory and facial nerves, and at the bottom of that shallow canal divides into vestibular and cochlear branches. The vestibular branches are distributed to the common sinus, sacculus, and semicircular canals, with the branches of nerve which they accompany through the bony foramina. At first they ramify on the exterior of the membranous labyrinth, and end in capillaries both on the outer surface and in the substance of the special glassy layer. The plexus is best marked internally near the ending of the nerves. The cochlear branches, twelve or fourteen in number, traverse the many small canals in the modiolus and bony lamina spiralis, and form in the latter a capillary plexus that joins at intervals the vas spirale, to be pre- sently described. From this plexus offsets are distributed in the form of a fine network on the periosteum, but the vessels do not anastomose across the membrana basilaris. The vas spirale is a single, sometimes branched vessel which runs along the under surface of the membranous zone, near the bone : it is like a capillary in texture, but larger in size, and is pro-