SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ARTERIES. 1014 the operation, and to determine as to the propriety of tying the one vessel or the other, for the iliac arteries are under his view ahnost as fully as if dissected. Arteries in other parts of the body are, on the contrary, only seen at the point at which it has been beforehand determined to place the ligature. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. This artery has been tied for aneurism affecting one of its large branches on the back of the pelvis—the gluteal or sciatic (p. 420). It is arrived at by dividing the abdominal muscles before the iliac fossa to a greater extent than is required for exposing the external iliac—in the maimer of the operation first mentioned for the common iliac artery. The vein, a large one, is, it will be borne in mind, behind the artery and in contact with it [plate 55]; it is occasionally double [plate 58, fig. 6]. There is some difierence in the degree of difficulty that would be ex- perienced in securing the internal iliac artery in different cases. This is owing to the fact, that, when short, (and, as stated before, it often is so,) the artery is placed deeply in the pelvis ; whereas, when the length is more considerable, it is accessible above that cavity. Again, when the artery is very short, [as represented, for instance, in plate 58, fig. 1,] it would probably be more safe to tie the common iliac, or both the external and the internal iliacs at their origin, than to place a ligature on the latter only, close to a strong current of blood. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external iliac artery (p. 431) admits of being tied in a surgical opera - tion at any part except near its upper and lower end ; the near neighbour- hood of the upper end being excepted on account of the circulation through the internal iliac, and the lower end on account of the common position of the branches (epigastric and circumflex iliac). Occasional deductions from this statement occur in consequence of a branch or branches taking origin near or at the middle of the artery ; and as the operator may see such a branch he ■will avoid placing a ligature very near it. The incision through the muscles to reach the artery, commencing a little above the middle of Poupart's ligament, may be directed parallel with the ligament upwards and outwards as far as its outer end, where the incision may be curved with advantage for a short space (about an inch) up- wards. This and the other iliac arteries might be operated on by means of straight incisions in a line from the umbilicus to the middle of Poupart's ligament, or a little to the outer side of this line. But the division of the muscles on the fore part of the abdomen is liable to the objection that the peritoneum must be disturbed in front as well as behind ; and, moreover, a curved inci- sion has the advantage of giving more room laterally than one which is merely straight. The muscles and the fascia transversalis being divided, and the peri- toneum (to which the spermatic vessels adhere) being raised, the artery is found where the finger of the surgeon, introduced into the wound, begins to descend into the true pelvis, along the border of the psoas muscl'\ In contact with the artery will be seen the following structures, each occupying the position already mentioned, viz., lymphatic glands, the cir- cumflex iliac vein, and the external iliac vein [plate 55].