BEAT^CHES OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 643 between the scaleni muscles. The two cords thus formed lie side by side in the fore part of the plexus, and external to the fir^t part of the axillary vessels. At the same place, or lower down, a third, intermediate, or posterior cord is produced by the union of fasciculi from each of the other two cords, or separately from the nerves forming them. The three cords of which the plexus now consists, are placed, one on the outer side of the axillary artery, one on the inner side, and one behind that vessel, and are continued into the principal nerves for the arm. The two fasciculi which unite to form the intermediate of the three trunks are generally separated at a higher level than the formation of the two other trunks, but they are also frequently given off as low as the clavicle, or even farther down ; this gives rise to some varieties, more apparent than real. The seventh nerve also may give a branch to the cord below it. The branches proceeding from the plexus are numerous, and may be conveniently divided into two classes—viz., those that arise above the clavicle, and those that take origin below the bone. BRAITCHES ABOVE THE CLAVICLE. Above the clavicle there arise from the trunks of the brachial plexus, the posterior thoracic and suprascapular nerves, a nerve for the rhomboid muscles, another for the subclavius, irregular branches for the scaleni and longus colli, and a branch to join the phrenic nerve. The branches for the scaleni and longiLS colli muscles spring in an irregular manner from the lower cervical nerves close to their place of emergence from the vertebral foramina. The branch for the rhoniboid muscles arises from the fifth nerve, and is directed backwards to the base of the scapula through the fibres of the middle scalenus and beneath the levator anguli scapulse. It is distributed to the deep surface of the rhomboid muscles, and gives sometimes a branch to the levator scapulae. Fig. 426.—Distribution of THE Suprascapular and Circumflex Nerves (from Hirschfeld and Leveille). I a, the scalenus medius and posticus muscles; b, levator anguli scapulae ; c, acromion ; d, deltoid muscle, of which the back pai't has been de- tached from the scapula and in part removed ; e, rhomboid muscle;/, teres major; g, la- tissimus dorsi; 1, the brachial plexus of nerves as seen from behind ; 1', the nerve of the levator scapulae and rhomboid muscles ; 2, placed on the clavicle, marks the supra- scapular nerve; 3, its branch to the supraspinatus muscle; 4, branch to the infraspinatus; 5, placed oh the back of the humerus below the insertion of the teres minor, marks the circumflex nerve passing out of the quadrangular interval; 6, its branch to the teres minor muscle ; 7, branches to the deep surface of the deltoid ; 8, cutaneous branch to the back of the shoulder.