MINUTE STRUCTURE OF MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 759 smaller group of foramina, which are situated below those just described, and open at the bottom of the fovea hemispherica ; the branch for the pos- terior semicircular canal is long and slender, and traverses a small passage Fig. 515. Fig. 514.—Transverse Section of one of the Membranous Semicircular Canals (from Kolliker). 250 This specimen is from the ear of the calf : a, external fibrous layer with interspersed nuclei ; 6, homogeneous layer ; c, epithelial lining. Fig. 515,—Ampulla of the Superior and External Semicircular Canals and Part OP THE Common Sinus showing the Arrangement of the Nerves (from Steifen- sand). 20 1, membranous ampulla of the superior canal ; 2, that of the external canal; 3, part of the common sinus ; 4 and 5, fork-like swellings of the nerves at their ampullar dis- tribution ; 6, twig of the auditory nerve spreading in the common sinus. in the bone behind the foramina for the nerve of the sacculus. The nerves of the ampullae enter the flattened or least prominent side of the ampullsa where they each form a forked swelling, which corresponds with the trans- verse septum already described, in the interior of the dilatation. No filaments have been found extending to any other parts of the semicircular canals. Microscopic structure.—The walls of the common sinus, sacculus and membranous semicircular canals are in general semitransparent ; but they are thicker and more opaque where nerves and vessels enter. On the outer surface is a layer of minutely ramified blood-vessels and loose tissue, which contains irregular pigment-cells : within this is a transparent layer, faintly fibrillated, and presenting elongated nuclei when acetic acid is added : lining the interior is an epithelial layer of polygonal nucleated cells. The mode of ending of the nerves in the membranous substance of the vestibule and semicircular canals is difficult to investigate, on account of the minuteness and delicacy of the parts ; for this reason also observers have had recourse in great measure to the examination of the vestibule and semicircular canals in fishes, in which they are of large size. The subject still requires further research, but it appears to be pretty certain