654 NEEVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. (a) The external branch extends to the radial side of the thumb, and is joined by an offrfet of the external cutaneous nerve. It distributes filaments over the ball of the thumb, (b) The internal portion communicates with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve on the back of the forearm, and divides into digital branches; one running along the ulnar side of the thumb, a second on the radial side of the index finger, a third dividing to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, while a fourth joins with an offset from the dorsal branch of the ulnar, and along with it forms a branch for the supply of the contiguous sides of the middle and ring fin- gers. These branches communicate on the sides of the fingers with the palmar digital nerves. Sometimes the interspace between the middle and ring fingers is entirely supplied by the radial, and at other times entirely by the ulnar nerve. POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS KERVE. This nerve, the larger of the two divisions of the musculo-spiral nerve, winds to the back of the forearm through the fibres of the supinator brevis Fig. 434. Fig. 434.—View op the Radial side of the Fore-arm, SHOWING the final DISTRIBUTION OF THE MuSCULO- Spiral Nerve (from Hirschfeld and Leveille). 5 The supinator longus, and extensores carpi radiales longior and brevior have been divided, and their upper parts re- moved ; the extensor communis digitorum is pulled back- wards by a hook, and the supinator brevis has been par- tially dissected to show the posterior interosseous nerve passing through it. 1, placed upon the tendon of the biceps muscle, points to the musculo-cutaneous nerve; 1', near the wrist, the lower part of this nerve and its plexus of union with the radial nerve ; 2, trunk of the musculo-spiral nerve emerg- ing from between the brachialis anticus, on which the number is placed, and the supinator longus muscles ; 2', its muscular twigs to the long supinator and long radial extensor of the carpus ; 2", the posterior interosseous nerve passing through the substance of the supinator brevis ; 3, placed upon the cut lower portion of the supinator longus, the radial nerve; 4, the external collateral nerve of the thumb ; 5, the common collateral of the fore-finger and thumb ; 6, the common collateral of the fore-finger and middle finger ; 7, the twig of union with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; 8, placed upon the common extensor of the fingers, the muscular branches of the posterior inter- osseous nerve to the long extensor muscles ; 9, upon the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, the branches to the short extensor muscles. muscle, and is prolonged between the deep and superficial layers of the extensor muscles to the interosseous membrane, which it approaches about the middle of the forearm. Much diminished in size by the separation of numerous branches for the muscles, the nerve lies at the lower part of the forearm beneath the extensor of the last phalanx of the thumb and the tendons of the common extensor of the fingers, and terminates on the back of the carpus in a gangliform enlargement, from which filaments are given to the adjoining ligaments and articulations.