898 THE LUNGS. and lymphatic glands, are placed on a plane posterior to the great blood- vessels ; the pnlmonary artery lies more forward than the bronchus, and to a great extent conceals it, whilst the pulmonary veins are placed still farther in advance. The pulmonary plexuses of nerves lie on the anterior and posterior aspect of the root beneath the pleura, the posterior being the larger of the two. The order of position of the great air-tube and pulmonary vessels from above downwards differs on the two sides ; for whilst on the right side the bronchus is highest and the pulmonary artery next, on the left, the air- tube, in passing obliquely beneath the arch of the aorta, is depressed below the level of the left pulmonary artery, which is the highest vessel. On both sides the pulmonary veins are the lowest of the three sets of tubes. Before entering the substance of the lung, the bronchus divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, one for each lobe. The lower branch is the larger of the two, and on the right side gives off a third small branch which enters the middle lobe of that lung. The pulmonary artery also divides, before penetrating the lung to which it belongs, into two branches, of which the lower is the larger and supplies the inferior lobe. The upper of these two branches gives the branch to the middle lobe. A similar arrangement prevails in regard to the right pulmo- nary veins, the upper one of which is formed by branches proceeding from the superior and middle lobes of the right lung. STRUCTURE OF THE LCJNGS. Coverings.—Beneath the serous covering, already noticed, there is placed a thin layer of subserous areolar membrane mixed vrith much elastic tissue. It is continuous with the areolar tissue in the interior of the lung, and has been described as a distinct coat under the name of the second or deeper layer of the pleura. In the lungs of many animals, such as the lion, seal, and leopard, this subserous layer forms a very strong membrane, composed principally of elastic tissue. Lohules.—The substance of the lung is composed of numerous small lobules which are attached to the ramifications of the air-tubes, and are held together by those tubes, by the blood-vessels, and by an interlobular areolar tissue. These lobules are of various sizes, the smaller uniting into larger ones ; they are bounded by flattened sides, and compactly fitted to each other and to the larger air-tubes and vessels of the lungs, those on the surface of the organ having bases, turned outwards, from half a line to a line in diameter. Though mutually adherent by means of fine areolar tissue, they are quite distinct one from the other, and may be readily sepa- rated by dissection in the lungs of young animals, and in those of the human foetus. They may be regarded as lungs in miniature, the same elements entering into their composition as form the lung itself. The struc- ture of a single lobule represents in fact that which is essential in the entire organ, each lobule, besides its investment of areolar membrane, being made up of the following constituents : the air-tubes and their terminating cells, the pulmonary and bronchial blood-vessels, with lymphatics, nerves, and interstitial areolar tissue. Air-tubes.—The principal divisions of the bronchi, as they pass into the lungs, divide into tubes of less calibre, and these again subdivide in suc- cession into smaller and smaller bronchial tubes, or bronchia, which, diverg- ing in all directions, never anastomose, but terminate separately in the pulmonary parenchyma. The prevailing form of division is dichotomous ;