704 THE SYMPATHETIC NEEVES. by some short filaments from the pudic nerve. After distributing twigs to the fore part of the prostate, these nerves divide into branches for the erectile substance of the penis, as follows :— Small cavernous nerves (Miiller), which perforate the fibrous covering of the corpus cavernosum near the root of the penis, and end in the erectile substance. The large cavernous nerve, which extends forward on the dorsum of the penis, and dividing, gives filaments that penetrate the corpus cavernosum, and pass with or near the cavernous artery (art. profunda penis). As it continues onwards, this nerve joins with the dorsal branch of the pudic nerve about the middle of the penis, and is distributed to the corpus cavernosum. Branches from the foregoing nerves reach the corpus spongi- osum urethrse. (Miiller, Ueber die organischen Nerven der erectilen mannlichen Geschlechtsorgane," (fee. Berlin, 1836.) 1s"erves of the Ovary.—The ovary is supplied chiefly from the plexus prolonged on the ovarian artery from the abdomen ; but it receives another ofiset from the uterine nerves. Vaginal Plexus.—The nerves furnished to the vagina leave the lower part of the pelvic plexus—that part with which the spinal nerves are more particularly combined. They are distributed to the vagina without pre- viously entering into a plexiform arrangement ; and they end in the erectile tissue on the lower and anterior part, and in the mucous membrane. JSTerves of the Uterus.—These nerves are given more immediately from the lateral fasciculus prolonged to the pelvic plexus from the hypo- gastric plexus, above the point of connection with the sacral nerves. Separating opposite the neck of the uterus, they are directed upwards with the blood-vessels along the side of this organ, between the layers of its broad ligament. Some very slender filaments form round the arteries a plexus, in which minute ganglia are found scattered at intervals, and these nerves continue their course in the substance of the organ in connection with the blood-vessels. But the larger part of the nerves soon leave the vessels ; and after dividing repeatedly, without communicating with each other and without forming any gangliform enlargements, sink into the sub- stance of the uterus, penetrating for the most part its neck and the. lower part of its body. One branch, continued directly from the common hypo- gastric plexus, reaches the body of the uterus above the rest ; and a nerve from the same source ascends to the Fallopian tube. Lastly, the fundus of the uterus often receives a branch from the ovarian nerve. (Fr. Tiede- mann, Tab. Nerv. Uteri, Heidelberg, 1822 ; Robert Lee, in Phil. Trans., 1841, 1842, 1846, and 1849; and Snow Beck, in Phil. Trans., 1846, part ii.) The nerves of the gravid uterus have been frequently investigated, with a view to discover if they become enlarged along with the increase in size of the organ. It is ascertained that the increase which takes place is confined, for the most part, to thickening of the fibrous envelopes of the nerves ; but it appears also, from the researches of Kilian, that fibres furnished with a medullary sheath, which in the unimpregnated state of the uterus lose that sheath as they proceed to their distribution, in the im- pregnated condition of the uterus continue to be surrounded with it as they run between the muscular fibres. (Farre, in Supplemeait of Cyclopaedia of Anat. and Phys., " Uterus and Appendages.")