DISSECTION UF TilK L(AVEH IJMIiS. 1078 meter of the urethra observed, as also iu its prostatic part, tlie veruraou- tanum or caput gaUinaginis, the sinus pocularis, and the orifices of the common ejaculatory ducts (p. 901). The jiuictiou of the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis to form the common ejaculatory duct is to be displayed ; and a longitudinal section of the prostate ghiud may be made to show its thickness, consistence, and structure : the relations of its base to the neck of the bladder should be particularly observed, with the circle of veins of the vesical plexus in the angle between them. In the female subject the bladder is to be opened and examined as in the male, and the length and diameter of the urethra observed (p, 980). The vagina is then to be cut open a little on one side of the middle line in front, when the ruga3 of its mucous membrane will be seen ; also, at its entrance, the carunculfB myrtiformes, and, projecting into it abov^e, the cervix uteri (p. 981). The ovary with its ligament and mesovarium, the Fallopian tube, the round ligament of the uterus, and, between the ovary and Fallopian tube, the tubules termed parovarium or organ of Rosenmiiller, arc next to be dissected, and the external configuration of the uterus examined (p. 982). The student will then notice the position and appearance of the os uteri externum, and will open the uterus on its anterior aspect by a line of section which, by dividing into two superiorly, is prolonged to both of the cornua (p. 984). He will thus see the size and shape of the triangular cavity of the uterus, the cavity of the cervix, the rugae of its mucous mem- brane, and the os uteri internum. 10. The Pelvic Ligaments.—At the conclusion, the articulations of the pelvic bones may be examined, if they are still in a condition fit for dissec- tion (p. 147). The symphysis pubis with its concentric laminso of fibro- cartilage is first to be examined ; then the articulation of the pelvis with the fifth lumbar vertebra, especially the sacro-vertebral and ilio-lumbar ligaments : the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments should be cleaned, and, by removing the remains of the origin of the obturator internus muscle, the obturator membrane. The anterior and posterior ligaments and the intervertebral disc of the sacro-coccygean articulation are to be observed : lastly, the strong posterior .and the thinner anterior sacro-iliac ligaments having been dissected, the last mentioned is to be divided, and the cartilaginous surfaces of the sacro- iliac synchondrosis are to be brought into view by forcing open the articulation. v.—LOWER LIMBS OR INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. The right and left limbs constitute each a part, the dissection of which should extend over a period of not less than four weeks. It includes the whole limb below Poupart's ligament and the crest of the ilium^ but not the perinjBum. 1. The Gluteal Region.—The dissection of the gluteal region, the back of the thigh, and the popliteal space is to be completed in the four days during which the subject lies on its face. To remove the integument from the buttock let an incision be carried along the crest of the ilium, brought downwards in the middle line of the sacrum and curved outwards in the fold of the nates, then directed obliquely to the outside of the thigh about five or six inches below the great trochanter. The junior student will at once proceed to clean the gluteus maximus muscle in the direction of its fibres (p. 266), The senior student will examine the arrangement of the