796 THE TEETH. blaiice to the crowiis of the future teetii, and then the formation of the hard substance commences in them. This process begins very early, and by the end of the fourth month of fcetal life thin shells or caps of dentine are found on all the pulps of the milk-teeth, and a little later on that of the first permanent molar, while at the same time the coating of enamel b^ins to be deposited on each. The cap of dentine Id creases in extent byagnmtli around its edges, and in thickness by additions in its interior, at the expense of the substance of the pulp itself, which decreases in proportioiu This growth of the tooth continues until the crown is completed of its prox>er width, and then the pulp undergoes a constriction at its base to form the cervix of the tooth, and afterwards elongates and becomes narrower, bo as to serve as the basis of the fang. Sooner or later, after the completion of the crown, this part of the tooth appears through the gum, whilst the growth of dentine to complete the fang is continued at the mr£ace of the elongating pulp, which gradually becomes encroached upon by successive formatioiis of hard substance, until only a small cavity is left in the centre of the tooth, containing nothing but the reduced pulp, supplied by slender threads of vessels and nerves, which enter by a small aperture left at the point of the fang after the dentine is completed. In the case of teeth having complex crowns and more than a single fang, the process is somewhat modified. On the surface of the dental pulp of such a tooth, as many separate caps or shells of dental substance are formed as there are eminences or pjoints; these soon coalesce, and the formation of the tooth proceeds as before as far as the cervix. The pulp then becomes divided into two or more portions, corres- ponding with the future fangs, and the ossification advances in each as it does in a single fang. A horizontal projection or bridge of dentine shoots across the base of the pulp, between the commencing fangs, so that if the tooth be removed at this stage and examined on its under surface, its shell presents as many apertures as there are separate fangs. In all teeth, the pulp originally adheres by its entire base to the bottom of the sac, but when more than one fang is to be developed, the pulp is, as it were, separated from the sac in certain parts, so that it comes to adhere at two or three in- sulated points only, whilst the dentuie continues to be formed along the intermediate and surrounding free surface of the pulp. Formaiion of the Iiard tisswes of the teeth.—Previously to the commencement of ossification, the primitive pulp is fonnd to coni^ist of microscopic nucleated cells (pulp granules, Purkinje), more or less rounded in form, and imbedded in a dear Fig. 5.54 Fig. 554.—DiFFEEEKT Stages 12? the FOEMAXioy of a Molar Tooth with Two Fajs'gs (from Blake). 1, the diEticct caps 01 dentine for five crownB in the earliest stage of formation ; in 2, and the remaining figures, the crown is downwards; in 2 and 3, the formation of the crown having proceeded as far as the nect, a biidge of dentine stretches across the base of the tooth-pulp ; and in 4, the division of the fangs is thus completed ; in 5, 6, and 7, the extension takes jjlace in the fangs.