829 SAC OF THE OMEOTUM. the posterior surface of the stomach and commencement of the duodenum, is continued downwards, back to back with the general peritoneum, into the pendulous portion of the omentum, and, as it returns thence, is applied to the anterior surface of the transverse colon. Passing these parts, it resumes its position of proximity to the peritoneum of the greater sac, and proceeds to the posterior wall of the abdomen. The two layers of peri- toneum which thus hang pendulously one within the other, and are derived from the general and the smaller sac, contitute the gastro-colic or great omentum ; while those by which the transverse colon is connected with the abdominal wall are termed the transverse mesocolon. In the pendulous great omentum, there being a duplication of both the general peritoneum and the wall of the smaller sac, four layers are to be distinguished, viz., first, an anterior and a posterior layer belonging to the greater sac of the peri- toneum, having their smooth surfaces respectively directed forwards to the abdominal wall and backwards to the small intestines ; and second, between these, the anterior and posterior layers derived from the lesser sac, lining the omental cavity and gliding one against the other : these four layers are, however, so intimately united and reduced to such extreme tenuity in the adult, that they cannot be separately recognised in the omentum below the colon. In most instances the pendulous part of the omentum presents the appearance of lacework, the interstices of which in corpulent persons are more or less loaded with fat. In some subjects, instead of lying like an apron over the small intestine, it is crumpled into a bundle along the transverse colon, as if displaced by the movements of the intestines against the wall of the abdomen. The description now given of the great omentum and transverse meso- colon agrees with the appearances most frequently seen in the adult subject, and with the account usually given in English works of Anatomy, the pos- terior layer of the great omentum being described as separating from the layer within, belonging to the omental sac, when it reaches the trans- verse colon, so as to pass behind or below that viscus, and from thence as proceeding backwards to the abdominal wall as the posterior or lower layer of the transverse meso-colon. It was, however, long ago pointed out by Haller, and the view has been confirmed by the observations of J. F. Meckel, J. Miiller, Hansen, and Huschke, that in the foetus, and occasionally in the child, or even in the adult, the two posterior layers of the omentum, though adherent to the transverse colon, may be separated from it and from the transverse meso-colon, so as to demonstrate that the transverse meso-colon is really a distinct duplicature of peritoneum. This view has been adopted by Holden and Luschka in their more recent works, and has been verified by Allen Thomson. Figures 579 a, and b, show diagrammatically the difference of the two views. The anterior wall of the sac of the omentum invests the whole posterior surface of the stomach ; above the small curvature of the stomach it lies back to back with the general peritoneum, completing in conjunction with it a gastro-phrenic ligament ; and further to the right it forms the posterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and likewise invests the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, close to the foramen of Winslow. Lying transversely in front of the aorta and in contact with the posterior wall of the abdomen, the pancreas is seen invested anteriorly by the hinder wall of the sac of the omentum. To the left of the stomach the sac extends to the spleen, and usually gives investment to a small portion of that organ at the lower end of its hilus it thus forms the posterior layer of the gastro-splenic omentumy