THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 514 the floor of which is the grooved posterior surface of the medulla oblongata, and which is named the fourth ventricle of the brain. On each side of this, the cerebellum is connected with the medulla oblongata and cerebrum, and also receives the fibres of the po'ns Varolii^ which is a commissure passing beneath and between the fibres which extend upwards from the medulla oblongata, so as to unite the two lobes of the cerebellum. The cerebrum includes all the remaining and much the largest part of the encephalon. It is united with the parts below by a comparatively narrow and constricted portion or isthmus, part of which, forming the crura cerebri, descends into the pons Varolii, and through it is continued into the me- dulla oblongata, whilst another part joins the cerebellum. Situated on the fibres which extend up from the constricted part, are a series of eminences, named, from behind forwards, the corpora quadrigemina, optic thalami, and corpora striata ; and springing from the front and outer side of the corpora striata are the large convoluted cerebral hemispheres, which expand from this place in all directions, concealing the eminences named, and occupying the vault of the cranium, the anterior and middle cranial fossae, and the superior fossae of the occipital bone. The cerebral hemispheres are united together by commissures ; by means of which there is enclosed a cavity, which is subdivided into various ventricles, viz., the two lateral, the third, and the fifth. THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The medulla oblongata is bounded above by the lower border of the pons Varolii, whilst it is continuous below with the spinal cord, on a level with the upper border of the atlas, at a point which corresponds with the lower extremity of the anterior pyramids, to be presently described. It inclines obliquely downwards and backwards ; its anterior surface rests in the basilar groove, whilst its posterior surface is received into the fossa named the vallecula, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and there forms the floor of the fourth ventricle. To its sides several large nerves are attached. The term medulla oblongata, as employed by WilHs, by Yieussens, and by those who directly followed them, included the crura cerebri and pons Varolii, as well as that part between the pons and the foramen magnum, to which, by Haller first, and by most subsequent writers, this term has been restricted. It is of a pyramidal form, having its broad extremity directed upwards : it is expanded laterally at its upper part : its length from the pons to the lower extremity of the pyramids is about an inch and a quarter; its greatest breadth is nearly an inch ; and its thickness, from before back- wards, is about three quarters of an inch. The anterior and posterior mesial fissures which partially divide the spinal cord are continued up into the medulla oblongata. The anterior fissure terminates immediately below the pons in a recess, the foramen ccecum of Vicq d'Azyr ; the posterior fissure is continued upwards into the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it opens and expands in a superficial furrow, and is gradually lost. In other respects an entirely difierent arrangement of the parts prevails from that in the cord. The surface of each half of the medulla presents four eminences or columns, which are met with in the following order, from before backwards, viz. : the anterior pyramids, the olivary bodies, the restiform bodies, and the posterior pyramids.