THE SPINAL CORD. 506 the sacral canal, or to tlie base of tlie coccyx. Internally, it is a prolongation for about half its length of some of the nervous elements of the cord ; externally, it consists of a tube of the pia mater or innermost membrane, which, being attached at its lower end to the dura mater and vertebral canal, keeps pace with the latter in its growth, whilst the cord relatively shortens. It is distinguished by its silvery hue from the nerves amid which it lies. Small blood-vessels may sometimes be seen upon it. Fissures.—When removed from the vertebral canal, and divested of its membranes, the spinal cord is seen to be marked by longitudinal ^ssw-res. Of these, two, which are the most obvious, run along the middle line, one in front and the other behind, and are named the anterior and pos- terior median fissures. The anterior median fissure is more distinct than the posterior, and pene- trates about one-third of the thickness of the cord, its depth increasing towards the lower end. It contains a fold or lamelliform process of the pia mater, and also many blood-vessels, which are thus conducted to the centre of the cord. At the bottom of this fissure is seen the transverse connecting portion of white substance named the anterior white commissure. The posterior median fissure is less marked in the greater part of its extent than the anterior, but becomes more evident towards the upper part of the cord. In a certain sense it is no real fissure, except at the lumbar enlargement and in the cervical region, in both of which places a superficial fissure is distinctly visible ; for although the lateral halves of the posterior part of the cord are quite separate, there is no distinct reflection of the pia mater between them, but rather a septum of connective tissue and blood- vessels which passes in nearly to the centre of the cord, as far as the posterior grey commissure. Besides these two median fissures, two lateral furrows or fissures have been described on each side of the cord, corresponding with the lines of attachment of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior lateral fissure is a superficial depression along the line of attachment of the posterior roots, and is at the edge of the plane in which these roots pass inwards to the grey matter of the cord. The anterior lateral fissure, which is often described in the line of the origin of the anterior roots of the nerves, has no real existence as a groove. The fibres of these roots in fact, unlike the posterior, do not dip into the spinal cord in one narrow line, but spread over a space of some breadth. The grey substance of the cord, however, approaches the surface somewhat in the vicinity of the place where the anterior roots enter : and this, together with a slight depression, produces the appearance which has been described as a groove. Thus, each lateral half of the cord is divided by the posterior lateral fissure into a posterior and an antero-lateral column ; and although we cannot trace an anterior lateral fissure, this antero-lateral portion of the cord may, for the convenience of description, be considered as subdivided into an anterior and a lateral column by the internal grey matter. On the posterior surface of the cord, and most evidently in the upper part, there are two slightly-marked longitudinal furrows situated one on each side, close to the posterior median fissure, and marking off", at least in the cervical region, a slender tract, named the posterior median column. Between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, on each side, the cord is convex, and sometimes presents a longitudinal mark correspond- ing with the line of attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum. Foville stateS; that in a new-born child there is a narrow accessory bundle of white