THE STOMACH. 886 an inch, and their length from ^^^th to g^^jth of an inch. At the cardiac end of the stomach, where the membrane is thinnest, they are shorter and are simply- tubular ; but, in approaching the pyloric portion, they gradually become longer Fig. 584. Fig. 584.—The Gtastrio Glands op the Human Stomach (magnified). a, tlie deep part of a pyloric gastric gland (from Kolliker) ; tlie cylindrical epithelium is traceable to the csecal extremities. h, c, and d, cardiac gastric glands (from Allen Thomson), h, vertical section of a small portion of the mucous membrane with the glands magnified 30 diameters ; c, deeper part of one of the glands, magaified 65 diameters, showing a slight division of the tubes, and a sacculated appearance produced by the large glandular cells within them; the change of the prismatic epithelium into spherical gland cells within the tube is apparent; cellular elements of the cardiac glands, magnified 250 diameters. and assume a more complicated form, for though quite straight near their orifices, they are curved, clavate, or irregularly sacculated towards their Fig. 585. Fig. 585.—Peptic Gastric Glands from the Doa's Stomach, magnified (from Frey). 1, longitudinal view; ct, the main duct; 5, one of the first tubular divisions of the gland ; c, the single tubes occupied by the gastric or peptic cells ; d, some of the cells pressed out; 2, cross section of the main duct, showing the epithelial lining; 3, cross section of the simple tubes. deep or closed extremity. Some are cleft, first into two or three, and finally into six or eight tubular branches. These characters are most perfect near the pylorus. They exist at all parts of the stomach, even where the alveoli are indistinct or absent ; they contain a colourless fluid, with granular matter, and appear to be the secreting organs of the gastric mucus and the gastric juice. The tubuli, generally, are formed of a simple homogeneous membrane ; fusiform cells supposed to be muscular lie between them on their contiguous or attached sur-