DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIVER. Fig. 616.—Early Con- 879 Fig. 616. specific gravity of the bile is from 1'02G to 1*030. It lias a sweetish bitter taste, and an alkaline reaction. It is a saponaceous compound, containing the following ingre- dients :—water, mucus, colouring matters (composed, according to Berzelius, of a yellow substance named cholepyrrhine, a brown substance named bilifulvine, and a green matter or biliverdine), fatty acids, viz., the margaric and oleic, combined with soda, free fat, cholesterine, salts, and, lastly, the most important ingredient of the bile, namely, the proper biliary matter, which consists, according to Streckcr and Lehmann, of two " conjugated acids," formed by the union of one acid, the Choleic, in two isomeric forms (the cliolic and clioloidic acids of some authors) with Glycin and Taurin respectively. Thus the Glyco-cholic and Tauro-cholic acids arc formed, each of them consisting principally of carbon and hydrogen, but both containing nitrogen, and the latter a considerable quantity of sulphur. They are combined with soda, but are very readily decomposed, giving rise to ammoniacal and other compounds. Of these two acids the glyco-cholic is the most important. The bile- pigment atFords the most characteristic tests for the detection of biliary matter. DEVELOPMENT AJSTD FCETAL PECULIARITIES OF THE LIVER. The liver begins to be formed at a very early period of foetal life. Both in the mammal, as seen by Bischoff, and in the bird, as Remak's researches show, it begins in the form of two blind processes from the intestinal tube, immediately beneath the dilatation for the stomach. According to Remak, these processes involve both the epithelial and fibrous layers of the intestine; and the fibrous layer rapidly growing, involves the omphalo-mesenteric vein and forms the outline of the liver : meanwhile the internal structure takes origin by the growth of anastomosing cylinders of cells from the epithelial layer, and of tufts of blood-vessels. dition OF THE Liver IN THE Chick on the Third Day op Incu- bation (from J. Mill- ler). 12 1 1, the heart, as a sim- ple curved tube ; 2, 2, the intestinal tube ; 3, conical protrusion of the coat of the commeuciug intestine, on which the blastema of the liver (4) is formed ; 5, portion of the layers of the germinal membrane, passing into the yolk-sac. The gall-bladder, according to some authors, is developed as a branch or diverticulum from the bile duct outside the liver; but JMeckel describes it as arising in a deep notch in the substance of the gland. It is at first tubular, and then has a rounded form. The alveoli in its interior appear about the sixth month. At the seventh month it first contains bile. In the foetus its direction is more horizontal than in the adult. Size.—In the human foetus, at the third or fourth week, the liver is said to con- stitute one-half of the weight of the whole body. This proportion gradually decreases as development advances, until at the full period the relative weight of the fcetal liver to that of the body is as 1 to 18. In early foetal life, the right and left lobes of the liver are of equal, or nearly equal, size. Later, the right preponderates, but not to such an extent as after birth. Imme- diately before birth the relative weight of the left lobe to the right is nearly as 1 to 1-6. Position.—In consequence of the nearly equal size of the two lobes, the position of the foetal liver in the abdomen is more symmetrical than in the adult. In the very young foetus it occupies nearly the whole of the abdominal cavity; and at