PAKTS DERIVED FEOM PRIMARY CEREBRAL VESICLES. 577 subsisting between the primary encepbalic vesicles, the five fundamental parts, and the principal permanent structures of the brain :— {Cerebral Hemisplieres, Corpus Callosum, fl. Prosenceplialou.* < Corpora Striata, Fornix, Lateral Ventricles, I. Anterior primary Vesicle, J ^ Olfactory nerve. ^2. Diencephalon. { "^^S^^^ O&rl'r'^^^ II. Middle primary Vesicle, 3. Mesencephalon. { X^ed^cTofViur" Quadrigemina. r4. Enencenhalon f Cerebellum, Pons Varolii, anterior part of p. Jipencephalon. | the Fourth Ventricle. (5. Metencephalon. \ Medulla Oblongata, Fourth Ventricle, Au- III. Posterior primary Vesicle. At a later period of development, the anterior part of the first vesicle, which, as stated above, represents the cerebral hemispheres, increases greatly in size upwards and backwards, and gradually covers the parts situated behind it; first the thalami, then the corpora quadrigemina, and lastly the cerebellum. On laying open the rudimentary encephalon, two tracts of nervous matter are seen to be prolonged upwards from the spinal cord upon the floor of the cephalic vesicles : these tracts, which are doubtless connected with the anterior and lateral parts of the cord, are the rudiments of the crura cerebri and corresponding columns of the medulla oblongata. Farther development op the primary vesicles.—The tJiird vesicle—The poste- rior portion of this vesicle, corresponding with the medulla oblongata, is never closed above by nervous matter. The open part of the medullary tube constitutes the floor of the fourth ventricle, which communicates below with the canal of the spinal cord, at the place where the calamus scriptorius is eventually formed. The three constituent parts of the medulla oblongata begin to be distinguished about the third month ; first, the restiform bodies which are connected with the commencing cerebellum, and afterwards the anterior pyramids and olives. The anterior pyramids become prominent on the surface and distinctly defined in the fifth month; and by this time also their decussation is evident. The olivary fasciculi are early distin- guishable, but the proper olivary body, or tubercle, does not appear till about the sixth month. The fasciolce cinereoe of the fourth ventricle can be seen at the fourth or fifth month, but the white striae not until after birth. The anterior part of the third vesicle is soon closed above by nervous substance, and forms the commencing cerebellum. This part exists about the end of the second month, as a delicate medullary lamina, forming an arch behind the corpora quadri- gemina across the widely-open primitive medullary tube. According to Bischoff, the cerebellum does not commence, as was previously sup- posed, by two lateral plates which grow up and meet each other in the middle line ; but a continuous deposit of nervous substance takes place across this part of the medullary tube, and closes it in at once. This layer of nervous matter, which is soon connected with the corpora restiformia, or inferior peduncles, increases gradually up to the fourth month, at which time there may be seen on its under surface the commencing corpus dentatum. In the fifth month a division into five lobes has taken place; at the sixth, these lobes send out folia, which are at first simple, but afterwards become subdivided. Moreover, the hemispheres of the cerebellum are now relatively larger than its median portion, or worm. In the seventh month the organ is more complete, and the flocculus and posterior velum, with the other parts of the inferior vermiform process, are now distinguishable, except the amygdalae, which are later in their appearance. Of the peduncles of the cerebellum, the inferior pair (corpora restiformia) are the first seen—viz., about the third month ; the middle peduncles are perceptible in the fourth month; and at the fifth, the superior peduncles and the Vieussenian valve. * This and the four following terms are adopted as applicable to the principal secondary divisions of the primordial medullary tube, and as corresponding to the commonly received names of the Grerman embryologists, viz., Vorderhirn, Twischenhirn, Mittelhirn, Hinter- hirn, and Nachhirn ; or their less used English translations, viz.,—forebrain, interbrain, midbrain, hindbrain, and afterbrain.