MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE LOBULES. 873 portal canals, wHcli are tubular passages formed in the substance of the gland, commencing at the transverse fissure, and branching upwards and outwards from that part in all directions. Each portal canal (even the smallest) contains, as shown in a longitudinal section, one principal branch of the vena portse, of the hepatic artery, and of the biliary duct ; the whole being invested within the larger portal canals by the areolar tissue of the capsule of Glisson. The portal vein subdivides into branches which ramify between the lobules, anastomosing freely around them, and are named interlobular veins. The twigs from these penetrate the lobules at their circumference, and end in the capillary network from which the intralobular (hepatic) veins take origin. Within the portal canals the branches of the portal veins receive small tributaries called " vaginal veins," which return to them the blood which has circulated in the capsule of Glisson, and also " vense advehentes capsulares," from the fibrous coat of the liver. The hepatic artery terminates in three sets of branches, termed vaginal, capsular, and interlobular. The vaginal branches ramify within the portal canals, supplying the walls of the ducts and Glisson's capsule. The capsular branches appear on the surface of the liver spread out on the fibrous sheath, and are accompanied by the veins which return their blood to the portal branches. The interlobular branches accompany the interlobular veins, but are of much smaller diameter. It has been supposed by Kiernan, Ferrein, and Theile, that the blood which they convey is entirely taken up by the portal veins before reaching the capillaries from which the hepatic veins take origin ; but the view, which has been held by other anatomists, that the hepatic arteries transmit blood directly to the capillary network between the portal and hepatic veins, is supported by the experiments of Chrzonszczewsky, mentioned further on. The capillary netv)ork is very close, and, in specimens in which it has been filled with transparent injection, can be seen to be continued uninterruptedly from one lobule to another. The distribution of the portal and hepatic veins within the lobules, as just described, has suggested an explanation of tbe mottled aspect of the liver, an appearance which formerly led to the erroneous idea of there being two substances in each lobule, one darker than the other. The colour of the hepatic substance itself is pale yellow, and would be uniform throughout, were it not varied according to the quantity of blood contained in its different vessels. Thus, if the system of hepatic veins be congested, the centre of each lobule is dark, and its margin pale: this is the common case after death, and is named by Kiernan passive congestion. In what is considered an active state of hepatic congestion, the dark colour extends to the portal system, across the inter- lobular fissures, leaving intermediate spaces, which remain as irregular pale spots: this state occurs especially in diseases of the heart. When, on the other hand, the portal system is congested, which is rare, and occurs generally in children, the mar- gins of the lobules are dark, and their centres pale. The Hepatic Cells.—The principal part of the secreting substance of the liver, and that which seems to form nearly the whole bulk of the lobules when unprepared sections are examined with the microscope, consists of nucleated cells. The hepatic cells are of a spheroidal, compressed, or poly- hedral form, having a mean diameter of from y^^^ ^th to -3:^0*^ ^^^^^ '• according to Henle some of them are only ^-Yj^th of an inch in dia- meter. They present some colour even when highly magnified, being of a faint yellowish hue. They usually include a very clear bright vesicular nucleus of a rounded form, within which again one or two nucleoli may be