801 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. several parts of a tooth, applies to the permanent as well as to the milk teeth. The origin and progressive development of the sacs of the permanent teeth have still to be considered. There are six more permanent teeth in each jaw than there are milk teeth, and it is found that the sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth, which succeed the ten milk teeth, have a different mode of origin from the six additional or superadded teeth, which are formed further back in the jaw. Fig. 559.—Enlarged Diagram op the Dental Arch on the Left Side of the Lower Jaw of a FcETus op about Fourteen Weeks (slightly altered from Good sir). /, the follicles of the five milk-teeth, supposed to be open, showing the dental papillse within them, and 0, the opercula on their borders; they are numbered from I to 5 in the order of their first ap- pearance ; c, to the inside of each is the lunated depression forming the commencement of the germ of the corresponding permanent tooth ; a &, line of the section shown in fig. 551, 5. The sacs and pulps of the ten anterior per- manent teeth have their foundations laid before birth, behind those of the milk set. Eecurring to the follicular stage of the tem- porary teeth, which is completed about the fourteenth week, it will be remembered that behind each milk follicle there is formed a small lunated recess, similar in form to an impression made by the nail. As already stated, the mucous membrane lining these recesses escapes the general adhesion of the lips and sides of the dental groove, so that when the latter closes they are converted into so many cavities^ which are called by Goodsir, cavities of reserve.^' They are ten in number in each jaw, and are formed successively from before backwards. They ultimately form the sacs for the permanent incisor, canine, and bicuspid teeth. These cavi- ties soon elongate and recede into the substance of the gum behind the milk follicles, above and behind in the upper jaw, below and behind in the lower. In the meantime, a papilla appears in the bottom of each, (that for the central incisor appearing first, at about the sixth month,) and one or more folds or opercula, as in the case of the temporary teeth, are developed from the sides of the cavity, and by their subsequent union, divide it into two portions, the lower portion containing the papilla, and now forming the dental sac and pulp of the permanent tooth, and the upper and narrower portion being gradually obliterated in the same manner as the primitive groove was closed over the milk-sacs. When these changes have taken place, the permanent sac adheres to the back of that for the temporary tooth. Both of them continue then to grow rapidly, and after a time it is found that the bony socket not only forms a cell for the reception of the milk sac, but also a small posterior recess or niche for the permanent sac, with which the recess keeps pace in its growth. Confining our description now, for convenience, to the lower jaw only, it is found that at length the permanent sac so far recedes in the bone as to be lodged in a special osseous cavity at some distance below and behind the milk tooth, the two being com- pletely separated from each other by a bony partition. In descending into 3 G