604 THE CRANIAL NERVES. the upper two spongy bones, and in that lining the posterior ethmoid cells. A branch, as has been already stated, forms a connection in the wall of the maxillary sinus, above the eye tooth, with the anterior dental nerve. The naso-palatine nerve, nerve of Cotunnius (Scarpa), long and slender, leaves the inner side of the ganglion with the preceding branches, and after crossing the roof of the nasal fossa is directed downwards and forwards on the septum nasi, towards the anterior palatine canal, situated between the periosteum and the pituitary membrane. The nerves of opposite sides descend to the palate through the mesial subdivisions of the canal, called the foramina of Scarpa, the nerve of the right side usually behind that of the left. In the lower common foramen the two naso-palatine nerves are connected with each other; and they end in several filaments, which are distributed to the papilla behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with the great palatine nerve. In its course along the septum, small filaments are furnished from the naso- palatine nerve to the pituitary membrane. (See Fig. 402. This nerve was discovered independently by John Hunter and Cotunnius; see Hunter's " Observations on certain parts of the Animal Economy;" and Scarpa, "Annotationes Anatomicge," lib. ii.) Fig. 408. Fig. 408.—Nerves op the Nose and of the Spheno-Palatine Gakglion from the Inner Side (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). ^ 1, network of the branches of the olfactory nerve descending upon the membrane covering the superior and middle turbinated bones ; 2, external twig of the ethmoidal branch of the nasal nerve ; 3, spheno-palatine ganglion; 4, ramification of the anterior division of the palatine nerves : 5, posterior, and 6, middle divisions of the palatine nerves ; 7, branch to the membrane on the lower turbinated bone; 8, branch to the superior and middle turbinated bones; 9, naso-palatine branch to the septum cut short; 10, Vidian nerve ; 11, its great superficial petrosal branch ; 12, its carotid branch ; 13, the sympa- thetic nerves ascending on the internal carotid artery. Posterior BiiANCHES.—The branches directed backwards from the spheno- palatine ganglion are the Vidian and pharyngeal nerves. The Vidian nerve arises from the back part of the ganglion, which seems to be pro- longed into it, passes backwards through the Vidian canal, and after emerging from this divides in the substance of the fibrocartilage filling the foramen lacerum medium, into two branches: one of these, the superficial petrosal, joins the facial nerve, while the other, the carotid branch, communicates with the sympathetic. Whilst the Vidian nerve is in its canal, it gives inwards some small nasal branches, which supply the membrane of the back part of the roof of the nose and septum, as well as the membrane covering the end of the Eustachian tube.