564 CEREBRO-SPINAT. MEMBRANES, in all directions towards its circumference, thus corresponding in form with the upper surface of the cerebellum. Its inner border is free and concave, and leaves in front of it an oval opening, through which the isthmus encephali descends. It is attached behind and at the sides by its convex border to the horizontal part of the crucial ridges of the occipital bone, and there encloses the lateral sinuses. Farther forward it is connected with the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone—the superior petrosal sinus running along this line of attachment. At the point of the pars petrosa, the external and internal borders meet, and may be said to inter- sect each other—the former being then continued inwards to the posterior, and the latter forwards to the anterior clinoid process. The falx cerehelli (falx minor) descends from the middle of the posterior border of the tentorium with which it is connected, along the vertical ridge named the internal occipital crest, towards the foramen magnum, bifurcating there into two smaller folds. Its attachment to the bony ridge marks the course of the posterior occipital sinus, or sinuses. Structvre.—The dura mater consists of white fibrous and elastic tissue, arranged in bands and laminae, crossing each other. It is traversed by numerous blood-vessels which are chiefly destined for the bones. Minute nervous filaments, derived from the fourth, fifth and eighth cranial nerves, and from the sympathetic, are described as entering the dura mater of the brain. Nervous filaments have likewise been traced in the dura mater of the spinal column. (Luschka and Rlidinger, quoted by Hyrtl.) THE PI A MATER. The pia mater is a delicate, fibrous, and highly vascular membrane, which immediately invests the brain and spinal cord. Upon the hemispheres of the brain it is applied to the entire cortical surface of the convolutions, and dips into all the sulci. From its internal surface very numerous small vessels enter the grey matter and extend for some distance perpendicularly into the substance of the brain. The inner surface of the cerebral pia mater is on this account very flocculent, and is named tomentum cerebri. On the cerebellum a similar arrangement exists, but the membrane is finer and the vessels from its inner surface are not so long. The pia mater is also prolonged into the ventricles, and there forms the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses. Structure.—The pia mater consists of interlaced bundles of areolar tissue, con- veying great numbers of blood-vessels; and, indeed, its peculiar office, both on the brain and spinal cord, seems to be that of providing a nidus or matrix for the support of the blood-vessels, as these are subdivided before they enter the nervous sulDstance. According to Fohmann and Arnold it contains numerous lymphatic vessels. Purkinje describes a retiform arrangement of nervous fibrils, derived, accord- ing to Kolliker and others, from the sympathetic, the third, sixth, facial, pneumo- gastric and accessory nerves. On the spinal cord the pia mater has a very difierent structure from that which it presents on the encephalon, so that it has even been described by some as a difl"erent membrane under the name neurilemma of the cord. It is thicker, firmer, less vascular, and more adherent to the subjacent nervous matter : its greater strength is owing to its containing fibrous tissue, which is arranged in longitudinal shining bundles. A reduplication of this mem- brane dips down into the anterior fissure of the cord, and serves to conduct blood-vessels into that part. A thinner process passes into the greater part of the posterior fissure. At the roots of the nerves, both in the spine and