THE SPINAL NERVES. kept distinct from the seven which succeed, as is taught in some schools, a nomenclature is arrived at much less objectionable than that which is most prevalent. A reference, however, to development (p. 17) will remind the reader that in the primordial vertebrae each spinal nerve is originally situated above the rib and transverse process belonging to the same seg- ment; and it will become apparent that the scientifically accurate nomenclature of nerves might be rather to name each in accordance with the number of the vertebra below it. Thus the eighth cervical nerve would be called first dorsal, and so on. Fig. 420.—Diagrammatic Outline op the Roots AND First Part of the Spinal Nerves, TOGETHER WITH THE SYMPATHETIC CoRD OP ONE SIDE. i The view is taken from before. In the upper part of the figure the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata are represented, and from V, to IX, the roots of the several cranial nerves from the trifacial to the hypoglossal are indicated. On the left side 01, is placed opposite the first cer- vical or suboccipital nerve; and the numbers 2 to 8 following below indicate the corresponding cervical nerves; Br, indicates the brachial plexus; Dl, is placed opposite the intercostal part of the first dorsal nerve, and the numbers 2 to 12 follow- ing mark the corresponding dorsal nerves; LI, the first lumbar nerve, and the numbers 2 to 5 following the remaining lumbar nerves; Cr, the anterior crural, and o, the obturator nerve ; SI, the first sacral, and the following numbers 2 to 5, the remaining sacral nerves; 6, the coccygeal nerve; Sc, the great sciatic nerve; x, x , the filum terminale of the cord. On the right side of the figure the following letters indicate parts of the sympathetic nerves ; viz. a, the superior cervical ganglion, com- municating with the upper cervical spinal nerves and continued below in the great sympathetic cord; 6, the middle cervical ganglion ; c, d, the lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal; d', the eleventh dorsal ganglion ; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglia the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown; I, the lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; S5, the upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union with the spinal nerves are shown. Sometimes an additional coccygeal nerve exists. Among seven cases which appear to have been examined with great care, Professor Schlemm ("Observat. Neurologicae," Berolini, 1834) found two coccygeal nerves on each side in one instance, and on one side in another case. In all the rest there was only a single coccygeal nerve on each side.