1031 FEMORAL HERNIA. UPRER PART OF THIGH. OF THE PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. The hernia distinguished as ' femoral' leaves the abdomen at the groin, under the margin of the broad abdominal muscles, and upon the anterior border of the hip-bone, immediately at the inner side of the large femoral blood-vessels. After passing downwards for about an inch or less, the hernia turns forwards to the fore part of the thigh at the saphenous opening in the fascia lata ; and when it has reached this point the swell- ing may be felt and seen. The muscles of the abdomen, beneath the edge of which the femoral hernia escapes, are represented by the aponeurotic band of the external oblique muscle, which is commonly known as Poupart's ligament, but which, in connection with the femoral hernia, is named the femoral or crural arch. Extending from the anterior superior iliac spine to the pubes, this band widens at its inner end, and, inclining or folding backwards, is fixed to a part of the pectineal line, as well as to the pubic spine of the hip-bone. The small triangular portion attached to the pectineal line is known as Gimbernat's ligament (Hey). The outer edge of this part is concave and sharp ; with other structures, to be presently described, it forms the inner boundary of the aperture through which the hernia descends. The breadth and strength of Gimbernat's ligament vary in different bodies, and with its breadth the size of the opening which receives the hernia will likewise vary. The space comprised between the femoral arch and the excavated margin of the pelvis is occupied by the conjoined psoas and iliacus, with the ante- rior crural nerve between those muscles, and the external iliac artery and vein at their inner side. Upon these structures the fascia which lines the abdomen is so arranged as to close the cavity against the escape of any part of the viscera, except at the inner side of the blood-vessels. But the arrangement of the parts situate thus deeply (towards the cavity of the abdomen) will be most conveniently entered upon after those nearer to the surface shall have been examined. To this examination we now proceed. The general disposition of the superficial fascia met with on removing the common integument from the groin has been described (p. 292). In con- nection with the present subject it will be enough to mention the following facts. The deeper layer of this structure adheres closely to the edge of the saphenous opening, and the careful removal of it is necessary in order adequately to display that aperture. Where it masks the saphenous open- ing, the deep layer of the superficial fascia supports some lymphatic glands, the efferent vessels of which pass through it ; and the small por- tion of the membrane so perforated is named the cribriform fascia. The superficial and the deep fasciae adhere together along the fold of the groin likewise ; and this connection between the two membranes serves the purpose, at least, of drawing the integument the more evenly into the fold of the groin, when the limb is bent at the hip-joint. By Scarpa the deep layer of the superficial fascia which covers the abdomen was described as an emanation from the fascia lata, extended upwards over the external oblique muscle.* But different modes of viewing the continuity of such structuixs depend very much on the manner of conducting the dissection. In the present case, for example, the fascia may be said to proceed from above or from below, according as the parts are dissected from the abdomen downwards, or from the thigh upwards, A Treatise ou Hernia, translated l>y Wishart. p. 217.