CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS, 533 volution, is one of the most distinct and symmetrical convolutions in tlie whole brain. Commencing on the under surface of the brain, immediately before the anterior perforated space, it ascends a short distance in front of the anterior recurved extremity of the corpus callosum, and then runs back- wards immediately above that body, as far as its posterior extremity : there it turns downwards and forwards, embracing the cerebral peduncle, to reach the entrance of the Sylvian fissure. This long convolution, therefore, describes a sort of arch or ring, open or interrupted opposite the Sylvian fissure, and embracing the corpus callosum above, and the cerebral peduncle below. It thus, as was pointed out by Foville, forms a sort of rim or border to the' grey matter, whence it is named by him convolution d'ourlet. The surface of this convolution, especially towards its inferior termination, is covered by a very thin cribriform layer of white substance, which, with the grey matter beneath, gives the surface a mottled aspect. This has been called the reti- culated wJiite substance. The marginal convolution of the longitudinal fissure is a large convolution which may be traced, more or less indented or interrupted however in its course, along the line of junction between the convex and flat surfaces of the hemisphere, forming the lip of the great longitudinal fissure. It com- mences on the under surface of the brain, in common with the gyrus fornicatus, and passing forwards, forms the inner border of the triangular orbital surface of the anterior lobe. In this part it is cleft longitudinally by a deep sulcus, into which the olfactory bulb is received, and which, it may be mentioned, is developed at an earlier period than the convolution itself. On the front and upper surface of the cerebrum, this convolution may generally be traced for some distance along the margin of the longitudinal fissure, but soon, becomes marked by deep sulci ; and, thus interrupted, may be followed round the posterior extremity, and along the under surface of the hemisphere forwards as far as the point of the middle lobe, running parallel for some space with the under portion of the gyrus fornicatus. Two of the sulci which interrupt the marginal convolution are very constant, viz., the vertical fissure with the fissure of the hippocampi, and the fissure of Rolando. The fissure of the hippocampi has a deep origin in the inner margin of the middle lobe of the brain between the fascia dentata and the gyrus fornicatus, and passing backwards crosses that gyrus on the under surface of the brain, behind the corpus callosum, and proceeds in a nearly horizontal course along the inner face of the hemisphere. This fissure is important as forming the reverse of the elevations of the hippocampi in the interior of the brain, and as being (according to Reichert) produced at an early period in connection with the general development of the hemispheres, and being comparable therefore rather to the fissure of Sylvius than to a mere sulcus. The part of the gyrus fornicatus beneath this fissure is distinguished as the gyrus hippocampi. The fissure of Rolando starting from behind the vertex runs outwards and forwards from the longitudinal fissure, so that the right and left grooves form a V-shaped line open in front. It derives its importance from being characteristic of the form of the brain of man and the quadrumana, and separating two considerable convolutions, which extend from the superior longitudinal fissure to the fissure of Sylvius. These convolutions, peculiar to the greater number of Simi<?e and attaining their fullest development in man, constitute the anterior and posterior transverse or anterior and posterior ascending parietal convolutions.