817 THE SUBLINGUAL GLAND. diately below the base and the inner surface of the inferior maxilla, and above the digastric muscle. In this position it is covered by the skin and the platysma myoides, and its inner surface rests on the mylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles ; above, it corresponds with a depres- sion on the inner surface of the jaw-bone ; and it is separated behind from the parotid gland merely by the stylo-maxillary membrane. The facial artery, before it mounts over the jaw-bone, lies in a deep groove upon the back part and upper border of the gland. The duct of the submaxillary gland, named Wharton's duct, which is about two inches in length, passes off from the gland, together with a thin process of the glandular substance, roimd the posterior border of the mylo- hyoid muscle, and then runs forwards and inwards above that muscle, between it and the hyo-glosstis and genio-hyo-glossus, and beneath the sublingual gland, to reach the side of the frasnum linguse. Here it ter- minates, close to the duct of the opposite side, by a narrow orifice, which opens at the summit of a soft papilla seen beneath the tongue. The structure of this gland is like that of the parotid ; but its lobes are larger, its surrounding areolar web is finer, and its attachments are not so firm. Moreover, its duct has much thinner coats than the parotid duct. The blood-vessels of the submaxillary gland are branches of the facial and lingual arteries and veins. The nerves include those derived from the small submaxillary ganglion, as well as branches from the mylo-hyoid division of the inferior dental nerve, and the sympathetic. The Suhlingual Gland. The sublingual gland, the smallest of the salivary glands, is of a narrow oblong shape and weighs scarcely one drachm. It is situated along the Fig. 573.—View of the Right Sub- maxillary AND Sublingual Glands PKOM THE Inside. A part of the right side of the jaw, divided from the left at the symphysis, remains; the tongue and its muscles have been removed ; but the mucous membrane of the right side is retained and is drawn upwards so as to expose the sublingual glands. s m, the larger superficial part of the submaxillary gland; /, the facial artery passing through it; s m', deep portion pro- longed within the mylo-hyoid muscle mh ; s I, placed below the anterior large part of the sublingual glands, with the duct of Bartholin partly shown ; s I', placed above the hinder small end of the chain of glands, indicates the ducts of one or two perforating the mucous membrane ; d, the papilla, at which the duct of Wharton opens in front behind the incisor teeth; d',th.Q commencement of the duct; A, the hyoid bone ; n, the gustatory nerve. floor of the mouth, where it forms a ridge between the tongue and the gums of the lower jaw, covered only by the mucous membrane. It reaches from the frsenum linguse, in front, where it is in contact with the gland of the opposite side, obliquely backwards and outwards for rather more than an inch and a half. On its inner side it rests on the genio-hyo-glossus ; beneath, it is supported by the mylo-hyoid muscle, which is interposed 3 H