1010 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ARTElilES. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. In the operation for tying the brachial artery, the known direction of the vessel, and the inner margin of the biceps muscle, chiefly aid in determining its position (p. 382). In consequence of the thinness of the parts which cover the artery, and the position of the basilic and median basilic veins with respect to it, even the integuments must be divided with care. After turning aside the superficial vein, should that be necessary, and dividing the fascia, the median nerve will probably come into view, and the artery will then be readily found. This is the course required under ordinary circum- stances. But it may happen that after dividing the fascia it will be neces- sary to cut through a layer of muscular fibres in order to bring the artery into view [plate 3^, figs. 3, 4, 5]. The influence of pressure with the finger, in controlling the circulation, will enable the surgeon to determine if Fig. 699. Fig. 699.—Dissection of the Axilla and Inside of the Arm to show the Axillary and Brachial Vessels (from K Quain). 5 The greater and lesser pectoral muscles have been divided so as to expose the axillary- vessels : a, the inserted portion of the pectoralis major ; h, the pectoral portion ; 1, 1, axillary artery ; +, +, the median nerve formed by the two portions of the plexus which surround the artery ; 1', placed on a part of the &heath of the brachial vessels, and 1", on the lower part of the biceps muscle, point to the brachial artery surrounded by its venae comites ; 2, 2, axillary vein ; 3. 3, the basilic vein ; the upper figure is placed on the triceps muscle, the lower on the fascia near the junction of the ulnar vein : on the basilic vein are seen the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve ; 4, on the deltoid and 4', on the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle, mark the cephalic vein joining the acromio-thoracic and through it the axillary vein ; 5, 5, placed on the divided portions of the pectoralis minor, point to the origin and branches of the acromio-thoracic artery ; 6, placed on a group of axillary glands, indicates the alar thoracic and subscapular vessels ; 7, placed on the trunk of the axillary vein, points by a line to one of the vense comites of the brachial vein, which being joined by the other higher up passes into the axillary vein : the ulnar nerve is seen passing frum below the basilic vein towards the inner condyle ; near 1, placed on the coraco-brachialis muscle is seen the musculo-cutaneous nerve before it passes through that muscle.