THE CEREBRUM. 534 The vertical fissure of recent authors crosses the marginal convolution in the posterior part of the cerebrum, extending slightly outwards upon its upper surface and more deeply on its internal aspect, so as to form a separation between the so- called parietal and occipital lobes. According to Foville the convolutions may be arranged in four principal orders, founded in a great measure on their relative connections with the anterior perforated space, which, in his estimation, is a part of the highest importance. The first order issues from the perforated, space, and consists of two portions. One, large and vertical, is the gyrus fornicatus, without its ascending secondary gyri; the other, short and horizontal, is the slightly-elevated ridge which bounds the perforated space in front and on the outer side. Fig. 365. Fig. 365.—Right half op the Brain divided by a Vertical Antero-Posterior Section (from various sources and from nature). \ 1, great superior or marginal convolution ; 2, convolution of the corpus callosum ; 3, secondary convolutions running between this and the preceding; within the numbers 2, 2, 2, the corpus callosum ; 4, the fifth ventricle ; 5, the third ventricle (see Fig. 377 for a larger view of these parts) ; 5', pituitary body ; 6, immediately behind the corpora quadrigemina and pineal gland; -f, the fourth ventricle; 7, pons Varolii; 8, medulla oblongata ; 9, cerebellum ; the middle lobe showing the section of the arbor vit^ ; I, the olfactory bulb ; II, the right optic nerve; the commissure cut through ; III, the right nerve of the third pair. The second order, also consisting of two portions, commences from the horizontal portion of the first order on the limits of the perforated space. One part corresponds with the marginal convolution of the longitudinal fissure, as already described, except that part of it on the orbital surface of the anterior lobe which lies to the outer side of the olfactory sulcus; the other part is the convolution of the Sylvian fissure. The third order consists of two sets, of which one occupies the inner surface of the hemisphere, and connects the gyrus fornicatus in its whole length with the marginal convolution of the longitudinal fissure ; the other set lies in the Sylvian fissure, forms the island of Reil, and connects the short horizontal portion of the first order with the convolution surrounding that fissure. The convolutions of the fourth order, the largest, deepest, and least symmetrical of all, are quite detached from the perforated space, and have no relation to the first order of convolutions. They connect the two convolutions of the second order