FORMATION OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. 999 ununited parts of the Mlillerian ducts disappear, excepting-, as suggested by Kobelt, their upper extremities, which seem to be the source of the hydatids of Morgagni. The excretory duct of the Wolffian body, from the base of that body to its orifice, is converted into vas deferens and ejaculatory duct, the vesicula seminalis being formed as a diverticulum from its lower part. With respect to the formation of the epididymis, our information is not altogether complete. According to the greater number of the most recent observations, it appears certain that the larger convoluted seminal tube, which forms the body and globus minor of the epididymis, arises by a change or adaptation of that part of the Wolffian duct which runs along the outer side of the organ. The vas aberrans or vasa aberrantia of Haller appear to be the remains also in a more highly convoluted form of one or more of the tubes of the Wolffian body still adhering to the excretory duct of the organ, and their communication with the main tube of the epididymis receives an explanation from that circumstance. But there are no direct observations on record of the process of conversion of these foetal structures into the permanent forms. As to the coni vasculosi in the upper part of the epididymis, still more doubt has pre- vailed. Since Miiller's discovery in birds of the collateral duct named after him, and the extension of this discovery to mammals, it has been customary to regard the upper part of the epididymis as produced by a transformation of the tubes and duct in the upper part of the Wolffian body, according to the views most fully given by Kobelt; but doubts have been entertained by some as to the correctness of this view, and more recent observations by Banks appear to prove that it must, in some degree, be modified. According to Banks the origin of the coni vasculosi is due to a process of develop- ment occurring in a new structure or mass of blastema which had been previously observed by Cleland, and which is deposited at the upper end of the Wolffian body, and close to the Mlillerian duct. Within this blastema Cleland showed that the tubes of the efferent seminal vessels and the coni vasculosi, together with the tube which connects them, are formed anew, while the tubes of the adjacent part of the Wolffian body are undergoing an atrophic degeneration. This has been confirmed by the de- tailed observations of Banks, who has further shown the continuity of their uniting tube with the Wolffian excretory duct. Should this view prove to be correct the caput epididymis must be regarded not simply as a conversion of the upper part of the AYolffian body, but rather as a new formation or superinduced development in blastema connected with it. The coni vasculosi, so formed, become connected with the body of the testicle by means of a short straight cord, which is afterwards subdivided into the vasa efferentia. The peritoneal elevation descending from the testis towards the lower extremity of the Wolffian body is the upper part of the plica gubernatrix, and becomes shortened as the testicle descends to meet the lower end of the epididymis ; the peritoneal elevation which passes down into the scrotum, and is continuous with the other, is the more important part of the plica gubernatrix, connected with the gubernaculum testis. The spermatic artery is originally a branch of one of those Avhich go to the Wolffian body, and ascends from the surface of the Wolffian body to the upper part of the testis, along the ligaments connecting them; but, as the testis descends, the artery liesentirelyaboveit,andthesecretingsubstance of the Wolffian body remains adherentto it; and hence it is that the organ of Giraldes, which consists of persistent Wolffian tubules, is found in a position superior to the epididymis. (For a fuller account of this complicated subject the student is referred to Banks On the Wolffian Bodies." Edin. 1864.) The descent of the testicles is a term applied to the passage of the testes from the abdominal cavity into the scrotum. The testicle enters the internal inguinal ring in the seventh month of foetal life : by the end of the eighth month it has descended into the scrotum, and a little time before birth, the narrow neck of the peritoneal pouch, by which it previously communicated with the general peritoneal cavity, becomes closed in the manner elsewhere described (p. 965), and the process of peri- toneum, now entirely shut off from the abdominal cavity, remains as an independent serous sac. The peritoneal pouch, or processus vaginalis, which passes down into the scrotum, precedes the testis considerably in its descent, and into its posterior part there projects a considerable columnar elevation already alluded to, which is filled with soft tissue, and is termed plica gubernatrix. There is likewise a fibrous struc-