1003 STRUCTURE OF THE MAMMA. lobules, espesially as contrasted with the adjacent fat, is of a pale, reddish cream-colour, and is rather firm. It is composed principally of the vesi- cular commencemenbs of the lactiferous ducts, which appear like clusters of minute rounded cells, having a diameter from ten to thirty times as great Fig. 696. In the left-hand side of the dissected part the glandular lobes are exposed and partially unravelled ; and in the right-hand side, the glandular substance has been removed to show the reticular loculi of the connective tissue in which the glandular lobules are placed : 1, upper part of the mamilla ; 2, areola ; 3, subcutaneous masses of fat ; 4, reticular loculi of the connective tissue which support the glandular substance and con- tain the fatty masses ; 5, one of three lactiferous ducts shown passing towai-ds the mamilla where they open ; 6, one of the sinus lactei or reservoirs ; 7, some of the glandular lobules which have been unravelled ; 7, others massed together. as that of the capillary vessels by which they are surrounded. These cells open into the smallest branched ducts, which, uniting together to form others of larger size, finally end in a single excretory canal correspond- ing to one of the chief subdivisions of the gland. The canals proceeding thus from the principal lobes composing the gland are named the galacto- phorous ducts, and are from fifteen to twenty in number ; they converge towards the areola, beneath which they become considerably dilated, espe- cially during lactation, so as to form sacs or sinuses two or even three lines wide, which serve as temporary though small reservoirs for the milk. At the base of the nipple all these ducts, again reduced in size, are assembled together, those in the centre being the largest, and then proceed side by side, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, and without communicating with each other, to the summit of the mamilla, where they open by sepa- rate orifices : these orifices are seated in little depressions, and are smaller than the ducts to which they respectively belong. The walls of the ducts are composed of areolar tissue, with longitudinal and circular elastic filaments.