THE CRANIAL NERVES. 618 The muscular branches are given to the stylo-pharyngeus and constrictor muscles. Tonsillitic branches.—When the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is near the tonsil, some branches are distributed on that body in a kind of plexus (circulus tonsillaris). From these nerves offsets are sent to the soft palate and the isthmus of the fauces. Lingual branches.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides into two parts at the border of the tongue. One turns to the upper surface of the tongue, supplying the mucous membrane at its base; the other perforates the muscular structure, and ends in the mucous membrane on the lateral part of the tongue. Some filaments enter the circumvallate papillae. Summary.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve distributes branches to the mucous membrane of the tongue, pharynx, tympanum and Eustachian tube. The muscles supplied by it are some of those of the pharynx and base of the tongue. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., the lower maxillary division of the fifth, the facial, the pneumo-gastric (the trunk and branches of this nerve), and the sympathetic. Pi^EUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. The pneumo-gastric nerve (nervus vagus, par vagum) has the longest course of any of the cranial nerves. It extends through the neck and the cavity of the chest to the upper part of the abdomen ; and it supplies nerves to the organs of voice and respiration, to the alimentary canal as far as the stomach, and to the heart. The filaments by which this nerve springs from the medulla oblongata are arranged in a flat fasciculus, immediately beneath the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and directed outwards with that nerve, across the flocculus to the jugular foramen. In passing through the opening at the base of the skull the pneumo- gastric nerve is contained in the same sheath of dura mater, and surrounded by the same tube of arachnoid membrane as the spinal-accessory nerve ; but it is separated from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve by a process of membrane. In the foramen the filaments of the nerve become aggregated together ; and * it here presents a ganglionic enlargement, distinguished as the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric. After its passage through the foramen, it is joined by the accessory part of the spinal-accessory nerve, and a second ganglion is formed upon it, the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve. Several communications are at the same time established with the surrounding nerves. The upper ganglion., or ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve, situated in the foramen jugulare, is of a greyish colour, nearly spherical, and about two lines in diameter ; it has filaments connecting it with other nerves, viz., with the facial, the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal-accessory, and the sympathetic. The lower ganglion, or ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, is about half an inch below the preceding. Occupying the trunk of the nerve outside the skull, it is of a flattened cylindrical form and reddish colour, and measures about ten lines in length and two in breadth. The ganglion does not include all the fibres of the nerve ; the fasciculus, which is sent from the spinal-accessory to join the vagus, is the part not in- volved in the ganglionic substance. It communicates with the hypoglossal, the spinal and the sympathetic nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve descends in the neck, between and concealed