THE SPINAL CORD. canal by numerous vascular plexuses, and much loose areolar tissue. The interval between the investing membrane and the sheath of the cord is occupied by a serous membrane (the arachnoid), and the space between the latter membrane and the pia mater is occupied by a fluid called the cerebro-spinal fluid. Within this space the cord is kept in position by proper ligaments, which fix it at difi"erent points to its sheath, and by the roots of the spinal nerves,—an anterior and a pos- terior root belonging to each,—which pass across the space from the surface of the cord towards the intervertebral fora- mina. From its lower part, where they are closely crowded together, the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves descend nearly vertically to reach the lumbar intervertebral and the sacral foramina, and form a large bundle or lash of nervous cords named the cauda equina, which occupies the vertebral canal below the termination of the cord. Fig. 340.—Anterior and Posterior Views op THE Medulla Oblongata and Spinal Cord WITH Sections. 4 The cord has been divested of its membranes and the roots of the nerves. A, presents an anterior, B, a posterior view, showing the npper or brachial, and the lower or crural enlargements. In these figures the filiform prolongation, repre- sented separately in B', has been removed ; C, shows a transverse section through the middle of the medulla oblongata ; D, a section through the middle of the cervical enlargement of the spinal cord ; E, through the upper region of the dorsal part ; F, through its lower; Gr, through the middle of the lumbar enlargement; and H, near the lower end of its tapering extremity. 1, anterior pyramids; 1', their decussation ; 2, olivary bodies ; 3, restiform bodies ; 4, pos- terior surface of the medulla oblongata ; 4', cala- mus scriptorius ; 5, posterior pyramids; 6, pos- terior lateral columns passing up into the restiform bodies ; 7, 7, anterior median fissure extending through the whole length of the spinal cord ; 8, 8, anterior lateral groove ; 9, 9, posterior median fissure ; 10, 10, posterior lateral groove ; x , lower end of the tapering extremity of the cord; X , X, in B', the filiform prolongation of the cord and its pia-matral covering. Although the cord usually ends near the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, it sometimes terminates a little above or below that point, as opposite to the last