THE SPINAL NERVES. 634 cervicalis asceudens, and tlie transversalis colli with tlie traclielo-inastoid. That of the second nerve is the largest of the series of external branches, and is often united to the corresponding branch of the third ; it supplies the complexus muscle which covers it, and ends in the splenius and trachelo- mastoid muscles. The interyial branches, larger than the external, are differently disposed at the upper and the lower parts of the neck. That of the second cervical nerve is named, from its size and destination, the great occipital, and requires separate notice. The rest are directed inwards to the spinous pro- cesses of the vertebrae. Those derived from the third, fourth, and fifth nerves pass over the semispinalis and beneath the complexus muscle, and, having reached the spines of the vertebrae, turn transversely outwards and are distributed in the integument over the trapezius muscle. From the cutaneous branch of the third nerve a branch passes upwards to the integu- ment on the lower part of the occiput, lying at the inner side of the great occipital nerve, and is sometimes called third occipital nerve. Between the inner branches of the first three cervical nerves, beneath the complexus, there are frequently communicating fasciculi; and this communication Cruveilhier has designated as " the posterior cervical plexus." The internal branches from the lowest three cervical nerves are placed beneath the semispinalis muscle, and end in the muscular structure, without furnishing (except occasionally the sixth) any offset to the skin. These three nerves are the smallest of the series. The great occipital nerve is directed upwards on the lower oblique muscle, and is transmitted to the surface through the complexus and trapezius muscles, giving twigs to the complexus. Ascending with the occipital artery, it divides into branches, which radiate over the occipital part of the occipito-frontalis muscle, some appearing to enter the muscle, and others joining the smaller occipital nerve. An auricular branch is sometimes supplied to the back of the ear by the great occipital nerve. Dorsal Nekves.—The external branches increase in size from above downwards. They are directed through or beneath the longissimus dorsi to the space between that muscle and the ilio-costalis and accessory; they supply both those muscles, together with the small muscles continued upwards from the erector spinse to the neck, and also the levatores costarum. The lower five or six nerves give cutaneous twigs, which are transmitted to the integu- ment in a line with the angles of the ribs. The internal branches of the upper six dorsal nerves appear in the interval between the multifidus spinse and the semi-spinalis dorsi; they supply those muscles, and become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae. The cutaneous branch from the second nerve, and sometimes others, reach as far as the scapula. The internal branches of the lower six dorsal nerves are placed between the multifidus spinse and longissimus dorsi, and end in the multifidus without giving branches to the integument. Where cutaneous nerves are supplied by the internal branches, there are none from the external branches of the same nerve, and vice versa. LuMBAK Nerves.—The external branches enter the erector spinse, and give filaments to the intertransverse muscles. From the upper three, cutaneous nerves are supplied; and from the last, a fasciculus descends to the corresponding branch of the first sacral nerve.—The cutaneous nerves given from the external branches of the first three lumbar nerves, pierce the