1037 FEMORAL HERNIA. OPERATION. degree. The fascia propria of the hernia, which succeeds to the sub- cutaneous fat, is distinguished by its membranous appearance and the absence of fat. It is very thin, and caution is required in cutting through it, as the peritoneal sac is immediately beneath : the two membranes are indeed in contact, except in certain cases to be presently noticed. A flat director is now to be insinuated between the hernia] sac and the inner side of the femoral canal, space for the instrument being gained by pressing its smooth surface against the neck of the hernia. On the groove of the director so introduced, or under the guidance of the fore finger of the left hand if the use of the director should be dispensed with, the probe-pointed bistoury is passed through the canal, and the dense fibrous structure of which it consists is divided, the edge of the knife being turned upwards and in- wards, or directly upwards. By the former plan of relieving the stricture, the parts divided are the following, —viz., the falciform process of the fascia lata and tlie structures fixed to the pectineal line of the pubes, namely, Gimberuat's ligament, and, it may be, the tendon of the two deep abdominal muscles, with the fascia transversalis, and the inner end of the deep femoral arch ; while if the incision be directed upwards, the falciform process of the fascia lata and the two femoral arches are divided. The opening being sufficiently dilated, the protruded part is restored to the abdomen as with the taxis. But it may be found necessary to lay open the hernial sac in order to examine its contents, or in order to relieve the impediment to the return of the hernia if that should happen to reside in the neck of the sac itself. In this case it will probably be required to add to the vertical incision already made through the integuments and superficial fascia, another directed out- wards over the tumour, and parallel with the femoral arch. Such additional incision is readily made, by passing the scalpel beneath the integument and f;it, and cutting outwards after the skin has been pierced with the point of the knife. The sac being now opened, the hernia knife is used at the inner side of its neck, while the bowel is guarded with the left hand. During the restoration of the protruded part=!, some advantage will be gained if the edges of the divided sac should be held down with a pair or two of forceps in the hands of an assistant. In the foregoing observations, it has been stated that the fascia propria is in contact with the sac of the hernia, except in certain cases. The exception is aflbrded by the interposition of fat, and sometimes in consider- able quantity. The adipose substmce is deposited in the subserous mem- brane ; it has the peculiarity of resembling the fiit lodged in the omentum, and it is occasionally studded with small cysts, containing a serous fluid. The hernia Avill be most readily found in such circumstances behind the inner part of the adventitious substance ; which should be turned outwards from the inner side, or cut through. III.—THE PERIN^L^M AND ISCHIO-RECTAL REGION. A connected view of the structures which occupy the outlet of the pelvis becomes necessary, in consequence of the important surgical operations occa- sionally performed on the geuito-urinary organs and the rectum, which are contained in that part. In the examination of these structures, which it is proposed to make in this place, attention will be confined to the male body. The hip-bones as they bound the outlet of the pelvis are already