882 THE PANCREAS. inch to an inch in thickness, being thicker at its head and along its upper border than elsewhere. The weight of the gland, according to Krause and Clendenning, is usually from 2loz. to S^oz.; but Meckel has noted it as high as 6 oz., and Soemmerr- ing as low as 14 oz. The anterior surface of the pancreas is covered with the posterior wall of the sac of the omentum, and is concealed by the stomach, which glides upon it. The posterior surface is attached by areolar tissue to the vena cava, the aorta, the superior mesenteric artery and vein, the commencement of the vena portse, and the pillars of the diaphragm, all of which parts, besides many lymphatic vessels and glands, are interposed between it and the upper lumbar vertebrae : to the left of the vertebral column it is attached simi- larly to the left supra-renal capsule and kidney and to the renal vessels. Of the large vessels situated behind the pancreas, the superior mesenteric artery and vein are embraced by the substance of the gland, so as sometimes to be enclosed in a complete canal, through which they pass downwards and for- wards, and then emerge from beneath the lower border of the pancreas, between it and the termination of the duodenum. The coeliac axis is above the pancreas ; and in a groove along the upper border of the gland are placed the splenic artery and vein, the vein pursuing a straight, and the artery a tortuous course, and both supplying numerous branches to the pancreas, the narrow extremity of which is thus attached to the inner surface of the spleen. The head of the pancreas, embraced by the inner curved border of the duo- denum, is attached more particularly to the descending and transverse por- tions of that intestine, beyond which it projects somewhat both in front and behind. The ductus communis choledochus passes down behind the head of the pancreas, and is generally received into a groove or canal in its substance. Structure.—The pancreas belongs to the class of conglomerate glands. In its general characters, and also in its intimate structure, which is racemose, it closely resembles the salivary glands, but it is somewhat looser and softer in its texture. It consists of numerous lobes and lobules, of various sizes, held together by areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and ducts. The lobules, aggregated into masses, are rounded or slightly flatten'ed at the sides, so as to be moulded or adjusted compactly to each other ; their substance is of a reddish cream-colour, and the arrangement of the commencing ducts and vessels is similar to that in the lobules of the parotid gland, which has been already described (p. 816). The principal excretory duct, called the pancreatic duct or canal of Wirsung (by whom it was discovered in the human subject in 1642), runs through the entire length of the gland, from left to right, buried completely in its substance, and placed rather nearer its lower than its upper border. Commencing by the union of the small ducts derived from the groups of lobules composing the tail of the pancreas, and receiving in succession at various angles, and from all sides, the ducts from the body of the gland, the canal of Wirsung increases in size as it advances towards the head of the pancreas, where, amongst other large branches, it is usually joined by one derived from that portion of the gland called the lesser pancreas. Curving slightly downwards, the pancreatic duct then comes into contact with the left side of the ductus communis choledochus, which it accom- panies to the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum. Here the two ducts, placed side by side, pass very obliquely through the muscular and areolar coats of the intestine, and terminate, as already described (p. 868), on its internal mucous surface, by a common orifice, situated at