MUSCULO-SPIEAL.—EADIAL NERVE. 653 in some instances extending as far as the olecranon. This nerve is accompanied by a small cutaneous artery. B. Posterior branches :— These consist of a fasciculus of muscular branches which supply the outer head of the triceps muscle and the anconeus. The branch of the anconeus is slender, and remark- able for its length; it descends in the substance of the triceps to reach its destination. G. External branches :— (a) The muscular branches supply the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, (the extensor carpi radialis brevior receiving its nerve from the posterior interosseous,) and occasionally give a small branch to the brachialis anticus. (b) The external cutaneous branches, two in number, arise where the nerve pierces the external intermuscular septum. The upper branch, the smaller of the two, is directed downwards to the fore part of the elbow, along the cephalic vein, and distributes filaments to the lower half of the upper arm on the anterior aspect. The lower branch extends as far as the wrist, distributing offsets to the lower half of the arm, and to the fore arm, on their pos- terior aspect, and is connected near the wrist with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve. Fig. 433.—Dorsal Cutaneous Nerves OP THE Hand. ^ Fig. 433. The distribution delineated in this figure is not the most common, there being a larger than usual branch of the ulnar nerve : 1, the radial nerve descending beside the principal radial cutaneous vein ; 2, and 3, dorsal branches to the two sides of the thumb ; 4, branch to the radial side of the forefinger; 5, branch to the forefinger and middle finger, and com- municating with one from the ulnar nerve ; 6, the posterior branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, communicating twig; 8, collateral branch to the middle and ring fingers ; 9, collateral branch to the ring and little fingers ; 10, branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger. RADIAL NERVE. The radial nerve, continuing straight down from the musculo- spiral, is concealed by the long supinator muscle, and lies a little to the outer side of the radial artery. This position beneath the supinator is retained to about three inches from the lower end of the radius, where the nerve turns back- wards beneath the tendon of the muscle, and becomes subcutaneous. It then separates into two branches, which ramify in the integument on the dorsal aspect of the thumb and the next two fingers in the following manner :—