CEREBEAL CONVOLUTIONS. 535 together, viz., the marginal convolution of the median fissure and that of the Sylvian fissure, and occupy the outer or convex surface of the cerebral hemisphere. Leureb, by an extended comparison of the brains of difiTerent animals, was led to divide mammals into fourteen groups, according to the disposition of the convolutions. In the lowest or simplest group, including the bat, mole, and rat, the Sylvian fissure is the only division of the surface present, or along with it a few very slight sulci. In a higher group, containing the fox and dog, and presenting in a marked form the typical mode of division, Leuret recognises fundamental six convolutions •—four external, including the superior marginal and that of the fissure of Sylvius, and two internal, viz., the supraorbital and gyrus fornicatus. In other groups, together with various other modifications of form by subdivision or by union through supplemental ones, the number of the fundamental convolutions is frequently reduced to five or to four. In the brain of the elephant, on the other hand, placed by Leuret in the thirteenth group, he recognises the superior transverse convolutions; and in the last group, comprehending the quadrumana, these transverse convolutions are two in number, and are separated by the groove, named by Leuret fissure of Rolando. These trans- verse or ascending parietal convolutions are a constant and well-marked feature of the human brain, in which they attain their highest development. Fig. 366. Fig. 366.—Outline of the Inner Surface op the Right Half op the Brain, SHOWING the Principal Lobes and Convolutions according to Gratiolet. F, frontal lobe ; P, parietal; 0, occipital; T, temporal; r, fissure of Rolando ; /, fronto-parietal fissure ; p', inner perpendicular or occipito-parietal fissure ; h, the calca- rine fissure of Huxley, and with the line continued forwards between g and h', the hippo- campal fissure; h', convolution of the hippocampus ; gyrus fornicatus or convolution of the corpus callosum ; s, Sylvian fissure ; I, olfactory bulb ; II, optic nerve ; III, third nerve; C, cerebellum. More recently, Gratiolet has arranged the convolutions with great detail, according to their most distinguishing common features in man and the simias. On the external surface of the hemisphere he distinguishes five lobes, viz., the frontal and parietal above the fissure of Sylvius ; the temporo-sphenoidal below that fissure ; the occipital behind it, and the island of Reil, or central lobe, within the fissure. The frontal lobe he divides into an orbital and frontal portion, and in the frontal portion