SIZE ATTD STRUCTURE.—MODE OF DIVISION. 631 These fibres in man and the mammalia appear to pass through the ganglion with- out union with its cells. The cells are both unipolar and bipolar, but the fibres con- nected with them all pass to the periphery (KoUiker), so that beyond the ganglion the posterior root of the nerve has received an additional set of fibres besides those which it contains before reaching the ganglion. In fishes, on the contrary, all the fibres of the posterior root are connected with the opposite extremities ot the bipolar cells of the ganglion. The anterior roots of the spinal nerves are, as will be inferred from what has been already stated, the smaller of the two ; they are devoid of ganglionic enlargement, and their fibres are collected into two bundles near the intervertebral ganglion, as in the postarior root. Size. —The roots of the upper cervical nerves are smaller than those of the lower nerves, the first being much the smallest. The posterior roots of these nerves exceed the anterior in size more than in the other spinal nerves, and they are likewise composed of fasciculi which are considerably larger than those of the anterior roots. The roots of the dorsal nerves, exception being made of the first, which resembles the lowest cervical nerves and is associated with them in a part of its distribution, are of small size, and vary but slightly, or not at all, from the second to the last. The fasciculi of both roots are thinly strewed over the spinal cord, and are slender, those of the posterior exceeding in thickness those of the anterior root in only a small degree. The roots of the lower lumbar, and of the upper sacral nerves, are the largest of all the spinal nerves ; those of the lowest sacral and the coccygeal nerve are, on the other hand, the slenderest. All these nerves are crowded together round the lower end of the cord. Of these nerves the anterior roots are the smaller, but the disproportion between the anterior and pos- terior roots is not so great as in the cervical nerves. Length of the nerves in the spinal canal.—The place at which the roots of the upper cervical nerves are connected with the spinal cord being nearly opposite the foramina by which they respectively leave the canal, these roots are comparatively short. But the distance between the two points referred to is gradually augmented from nerve to nerve downwards, so that the place of origin of the lower cervical nerves is the breadth of at least one vertebra, and that of the lower dorsal nerves about the breadth of two vertebrae above the foramina by which they respectively emerge from the canal. Moreover, as the spinal cord extends no farther than the first lumbar vertebra, the length of the roots of the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves increases rapidly from nerve to nerve, and in each case may be estimated by the distance of the foramen of exit from the extremity of the cord. 0 wing to their length, and the appearance they present in connection with the spinal cord, the aggregation of the roots of the nerves last referred to has been named the " cauda equina." The direction the roots take within the canal requires brief notice. The first cervical nerve is directed horizontally outwards. The roots of the lower cervical and dorsal nerves at first descend over the spinal cord, held in contact with it by the arachnoid, till they arrive opposite the several intervertebral foramina, where they are directed horizontally outwards. The nerves of the cauda equina run in the direction of the spinal canal. Division of the nerves.—The two roots of each of the spinal nerves unite immediately beyond the ganglion, and the trunk thus formed separates, as already mentioned, into two divisions, an anterior and a posterior, which are called primary branches or divisions. In the detailed description of the spinal nerves which follows, we shall