628 THE CRANIAL NERVES. pneumo-gastric. It is probable, moreover, that the descendens noni has little if any real origin from the hypoglossal nerve: Luschka states it as the result of numerous researches on the human subject that the descendens noni usually contains no fila- ments from the hypoglossal, but is a branch from the first and second cervical, tem- porarily associated with the ninth nerve; and this quite agrees with the circumstance that in the domestic animals the branches supplied to those muscles to which the descendens noni of the human subject is distributed come from the cervical plexus. Branches to muscles and the tongue.—The brancli to the thyro-hyoid nrnscle is a separate twig given oflf from the hypoglossal nerve as it approaches the hyoid bone. The nerve supplies branches to the stylo-hyoid, hyo-glossTis, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles as it becomes contiguous to each, and vs^hen arrived close to the middle of the tongue with the ranine artery, gives off several long slender branches, which pass upwards into the substance of the organ. Some filaments join with others proceeding from the gustatory nerve. A branch is described as uniting with its fellow of the opposite side, in the sub- stance of the genio-hyoid muscle or between it and the genio-glossus. This loop, as also the ansa hypoglossi, is recommended by Hyrtl as a particularly favourable example for the observation of nerve fibres returning to the nervous centres without distribution, to which he gives the name of " nerves without ends." ("Nat. Hist. Review, Jan. 1862.") That in the ansa hypoglossi an interchange of fibres takes place, so that a filament of the spinal nerve is directed upwards along the branch of the hypoglossal, and vice versa, was noticed by Cruveilhier. Summary.—The hypoglossal nerve supplies, either alone or in union with branches of the spinal nerves, all the muscles connected with the OS hyoides, including those of the tongue, with the exception of the digastric and stylo-hyoid, the mylo-hyoid and the middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also supplies the sterno-thyroid muscle. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., pneumo-gastric, gustatory, three upper cervical nerves, and the sympathetic. B. SPINAL NERVES. The spinal nerves are characterised by their origin from the spinal cord, and their direct transmission outwards from the spinal canal in the intervals between the vertebrse. Taken together these nerves consist of thirty-one pairs ; and, according to the region in which they issue from the spinal canal, they are named cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. By universal usage each pair of nerves in the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions is named in correspondence with the vertebra beneath which it emerges. There are thus left eight pairs of nerves between the cranium and the first dorsal nerve, the first being placed above the atlas and the eighth below the seventh cervical vertebra, which are reckoned by the majority of writers as eight cervical nerves. The nerves of the thirty-first pair emerge from the lower end of the sacral canal, below the first vertebra of the coccyx, and are named coccygeal. Although the plan of counting eight cervical nerves is continued in this work for the sake of convenience, it being that which is most frequently followed, it is by no means intended to represent this method as scientifically correct. The plan of Willis, who reckoned the suboccipital as a cranial nerve had at least the advantage that it made the numbers of the remaining seven cervical nerves correspond each with the vertebra beneath which it emerged, as do the dorsal, lumbar and sacral nerves; and if the suboccipital nerve, while recognised as the first spinal nerve, be