555 STRUCTURE OF THE FIBROUS SUBSTANCE. the whole surface of the convolutions, and collected in distinct masses in certain of the deeper parts, such as the corpora striata, thalami optici, corpora quadrigemina, and crura cerebri. To the grey substance, the names of cineritious and cortical have been applied ; to the white that of medullary. I. The white matter of the encephalon consists of tubular fibres, in general still smaller than those of the cord, and more prone to become varicose. The general direction which these follow is best seen in a brain that has been hardened by immersion in alcohol, although it is true that in an ordinary dissection of such hardened masses with the scalpel, we do not then trace the single fibres, but only the smaller bundles and fibrous lamellae which they form by their aggregation. It must also be admitted that where they intimately decussate, the tearing of fibres across is liable to be mistaken for the separation of sets of fibres one from the other; and it is necessary to correct such errors by the examination of sections under the micro- scope. The microscopic examination of the cerebrum, however, is as yet still less Fig. 378. Fig. 378,—Sketch of a Dissection showing the connection op the Columns of the Medulla Oblongata with the Cerebrum and Cerebellum (from Mayo). ^ In the lower part of the figure the medulla oblongata is entire where it is prolonged downwards into the spinal cord ; a, the anterior pyramid ; a', its continuation upwards into the pons Varolii (m) ; c, olivary body ; d, olivary fasciculus ; behind c', the fasciculi teretes are represented ; d, the white laminte in part of the cerebellum ; /, superior peduncle of the cerebellum ; anterior part or crust of the cerebral peduncle ; h, part of the fibres radiating from the peduncle into the right cerebral hemisphere, of which a considerable extent is shown containing parts of the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes ; h, part of the corona radiata ; h' (in front), central fibres of the convolutions ; *, fillet ; Z, back of the thalamus opticus ; m, pons Varolii; n, inferior peduncle of the crus cerebelli ; o, section of the pes hippocampi; tegmentum ; y, show the white fibres issuing from the corpus striatum. complete than that of the spinal marrow and medulla oblongata. By the dissection of artificially prepared brains, aided in part by microscopic observation, the follow- ing general facts have been ascertained :— The fibres of the cerebrum, though exceedingly complicated in their arrange- ment, and forming many diflferent groups, may be referred to three principal systems, according to the general course which they take, viz.:—1. Ascending or 0 o 2