LOWER CERVICAL GANGLION. 698 chest it lies on the trachea, where it is joined by filaments of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and it ends in the right side of the deep cardiac plexus. While in the neck, the nerve communicates with the upper cardiac nerve and the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric. On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. When the middle cervical ganglion is small, the middle cardiac nerve may be found to be an offset of the inter-ganglionic cord. LOWER CERVICAL GANGLIOlSr. The lower or third cervical ganglion is irregular in shape, usually some- what flattened and round or semilunar, and is frequently united in part to the first thoracic ganglion. Placed in a hollow between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it is con- cealed by the vertebral artery. It is connected by short communicating cords with the two lowest cervical nerves. Numerous branches are given ofi" from it, among which the largest is the lower cardiac nerve. The lower cardiac nerve, issuing from the third cervical ganglion or from the first thoracic, inclines inwards on the right side, behind the sub- clavian artery, and terminates in the cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. It communicates with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves behind the subclavian artery. On the left side, the lower cardiac often becomes blended with the middle cardiac nerve, and the cord resulting from their union terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. Branches to blood-vessels.—From the lowest cervical and first dorsal ganglia a few slender branches ascend along the vertebral artery in its osseous canal, forming a plexus round the vessel by their inter-communica- tions, and supplying it with offsets. This plexus is connected with the cervical spinal nerves as far upwards as the fourth. One or two branches frequently pass from the lower cervical ganglion to the first dorsal ganglion in front of the subclavian artery, forming loops round the vessel (ansae Vieussenii), and supplying it with small offsets. THORACIC PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the thorax the gangliated cord is placed towards the side of the spinal column, in a line passing over the heads of the ribs. It is covered by the pleura, and crosses the intercostal blood-vessels. Opposite the head of each rib the cord usually presents a ganglion, so that there are commonly twelve of these ; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, the number varies slightly. The first ganglion when distinct is larger than the rest, and is of an elongated form ; but it is often blended with the lower cervical ganglion. The rest are small, generally oval, but very various in form. Connection with the spinal nerves.—The branches of connection between the spinal nerves and the ganglia of the sympathetic are usually two in number for each ganglion ; one of these generally resembling the spinal nerve in structure, the other more similar to the sympathetic nerve. branches of the ganglia. The branches furnished by the first five or six ganglia are small, and are