997 MtiLLERIAIT DUCTS. cord, and subsequently through its whole extent, while the Wolffian ducts remain separate to their ends. Another structure is likewise seen at this stage in connection with the Wolffian body in both sexes, viz. an elevation of peritoneum, with tissue enclosed, which extends from the lower end of the testis or ovary to the point where the excretory and Miillerian ducts quit their contact with the lower extremity of the Wolffian body, and there becoming stronger, extends onwards from this point to the processus vaginalis or canal of Nuck. The further development of these parts in each of the two sexes requires a separate description. Fig. 693. — DiA- Fig. 693. GUAM OF THE FE- MALE Type op Sexual Organs. This and the fol- lowing figure repre- sent diagrammati- cally a state of the parts not actually visible at one time ; but they are in- tended to illustrate the general type in the two sexes, and more particularly the relation of the two conducting tubes to the development of one as the natural passage in either sex, and to the natural occurrence of vestiges of the other tube, as well as to the persistence of the whole or parts of both tubes in oc- casional instances of hermaphroditic na- ture. 1, the left kidney; 2, supra-renal body ; 3, ureter, of which a part is removed to show the parts passing within it; 4, urinary bladder ; 5, urachus ; o, the left ovary nearly in the place of its original formation ; p o, parovarium ; W, scattered remains of Wolffian tubes near it; d G, remains of the left Wolffian duct, such as give rise to the duct of Gaertner, represented by dotted lines ; that of the right side cut short is marked w ; /, the abdo- minal opening of the left Fallopian tube; u, the upper part of the body of the uterus, presenting a slight appearance of division into cornua; the Fallopian tube of the right side cut short is marked m ; g, round ligament, corresponding to gubernaculum ; i, lower part of the intestine ; va, vagina ; h, situation of the hymen; C, gland of Bartholin (Cowper's gland ), and immediately above it the urethra; c c, corpus cavernosum clitoridis; s c, vascular bulb or corpus spongiosum ; w, nympha; I, labium ; v, vulva. In the female, the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes are formed out of the Miil- lerian ducts. That portion of the ducts in which they become fused together is de- veloped into the vagina, the cervix, and part of the body of the uterus; and the pecu- liarity of the mode of fusion accounts for the occurrence, as a rare anomaly, not only of double uterus, but of duplicity of the vagina, coincident with communication between o lateral halves of the uterus. The part of the Miillerian duct extending from the base of the Wolffian body, to the point where the two ducts meet, constitutes