580 DEYELOPMENT OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. behind, below, and at the sides, the thalami become solid, and at the same time a cleft or fissure appears between them above, and penetrates down to the internal cavity, which continues open at the back part opposite the entrance of the Sylvian aqueduct. This cleft or fissure, is the thwd ventricle. Behind, the two thalami continue united by the posterior commissure, which is distinguishable about the end of the third month, and also by the peduncles of the pineal gland. The soft commissure could not be detected by Tiedemann until the ninth month ; but its apparent absence at earlier dates may perhaps be attributed to the efi'ects of laceration. At an early period the optic tracts may be recognised as hollow prolongations from the outer part of the wall of the thalami while they are still vesicular. At the fourth month these tracts are distinctly formed. The hemisphere-vesicle becomes divisible into two parts : one of these is the part which from the interior appears as the corpus striatum, and from the exterior as the island of Reil, or central lobe; the other forms the expanded or covering portion of the hemisphere, and is designated by Eeichert, the mantle. The aperture ex- isting at the constricted neck of the hemisphere vesicle, Schmidt and Eeichert have recognised as the foramen of Monro. The corpora striata, it will be observed, have a very difi'erent origin from the optic thalami; for, while the optic thalami are formed by thickening of the circumferential wall of a part of the first cerebral vesicle, and thus correspond in their origin with all the parts of the encephalon behind them, which are likewise derived from portions of the cerebro-spinal tube, the corpora striata appear as thickenings of the floor of the hemisphere-vesicles, which are lateral offshoots from the original cerebro- spinal tube. On this account Eeichert considers the brain primarily divisible into the stem, which comprises the whole encephalon forwards to the taenia semicircularis, and the hemisphere-vesicles, which include the corpora striata and hemispheres. The cerebral hemispheres enlarging, and having their walls increased in thickness, form, during the fourth month (Tiedemann), two smooth shell-like lamellae, which include the cavities afterwards named the lateral ventricles, and the parts contained within them. Following out the subsequent changes affecting the exterior of the cerebral hemispheres, it is found that about the fourth month the first traces of some of the convolutions appear, the intermediate sulci commencing only as very slight Fig. 395. Fig. 395.—The Surface of the Fcetal Brain at Six Months (from E,. Wagner). This figure is intended to show the commencement of the formation of the principal fissures and convolutions. A, from above ; B, from the left side. F, frontal lobe; P, parietal ; 0, occipital: T, temporal ; a, a, a, slight appearance of the several frontal convolutions ; s, the Sylvian fissure ; s, its anterior division ; within it, C, the central lobe or convolutions of the island ; r, fissure of Eolando ; _p, the vertical fissure (external part) ; t, the parallel fissure. depressions on the hitherto smooth surface. Though the hemispheres continue to grow quickly upwards and backwards, the convolutions at first become distinct by