621. PNEUMO-GASTEIC NERVE. Inferiorly, it forms a single trunk in front of the oesophagus, and is spread out on the anterior or superior surface of the stomach. There are various circumstances in the distribution of the pneumo-gastric nerves which at first sight appear anomalous, but which are explained by reference to the process of development. The recurrent direction of the inferior laryngeal branches in all probability arises from the extreme shortness or rather absence of the neck in the embryo at first, and from the branchial arterial arches having originally occupied a position at a higher level than the parts in which those branches are ultimately distributed, and having dragged them down as it were in the descent of the heart from the neck to the thorax. The recurrent direction may therefore be accepted as evidence of the development of those nerves before the occurrence of that descent. The circumstance that one recurrent laryngeal nerve passes round the subclavian artery, and the other round the aorta, is seen to arise from an originally symmetrical disposition, when it is remembered that the innominate artery and the arch of the aorta are derived from corresponding arches of the right and left sides. The supply of the back of the stomach by the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and the front by the left nerve, is connected with the originally symmetrical condition of the alimentary canal, and the turning over of the stomach on its right side in its sub- sequent growth. BRANCHES OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. Some of its branches serve to connect the pneumo-gastric -with other nerves, and others are distributed to the muscular substance or the mucous lining of the organs which the nerve supplies. The principal con- necting branches of this nerve are derived from the ganglia. In the different stages of its course branches are supplied to various organs as follows :—In the jugular foramen, a branch is given to the ear ; in the neck branches are furnished successively to the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart ; and in the thorax additional branches are distributed to the heart, as well as to the lungs and the oesophagus. Terminal branches in the abdomen are distributed to the stomach, liver, and other organs. CONNECTING BRANCHES AND AURICULAR BRANCH. Connections between the upper ganglion of the vagus nerve and the spinal-accessory, glosso-pharyngeal, and sympathetic nerves.—The connection with the spinal-accessory is effected by one or two filaments. The filament to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal is directed transversely; it is not always present. The communi- cation with the sympathetic is established by means of the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion. The auricular branch is continued to the outer ear. Arising from the ganglion of the root, this branch is joined by a filament from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and then turns backwards along the outer boundary of the jugular foramen to an opening near the styloid process. Next, it traverses the substance of the temporal bone, crossing the aqueduct of Fallopius, about two lines from the lower end, and, reaching the surface between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus, is distri- buted to the integument of the back of the ear. On the surface it joins with a twig from the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. Connections of the second ganglion with the hypoglossal, sympathetic, and spinal nerves.—This ganglion is connected by filaments with the trunk of the hypoglossal, with the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop formed be- tween the first two cervical nerves. PHARYNGEAL BRANCH. The pharyngeal branch arises from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve. In its progress inwards to the pharynx this nerve crosses, in some cases over, in others under the internal carotid artery ; and