TPIE LIVER. 876 that, the cells being placed closely together, the bile either passes by irre- gular interstices between them, or from one cell to another, to reach the smallest ducts at the circumference of the lobules. Beale, who has investigated the subject with great care, believes that he has succeeded in demonstrating the existence of a basement membrane in- closing, in a plexus of tubes, the intralobular rows or columns of hepatic cells. This basement membrane, he conceives, lines the interstices between the capillary blood-vessels forming the intralobular plexus ; and he states that, although in the adult it becomes so closely incorporated with the walls of the blood-vessels that it is scarcely to be demonstrated as a distinct struc- ture, yet in the foetus, the walls of these tubes and those of the vessels are quite distinct. The minute ducts are considered by Beale to be directly continuous with this tubular network : but the tubules containing the hepatic cells, being -j q^Vo^h of an inch in diameter, and the smallest ducts -j^^^-^th or less, there is a great diflference in their size ; this di£ference he holds, however, is only similar to that which is found, in some other glandular organs, between the proper secreting cavity and the ductal passages. Kolliker has become convinced of the correctness of Beale's account from an examination of his preparations. Henle believes that the interlobular bile ducts are completely shut off from the cellular substance of the lobules, which was the theory proposed by Handfield Jones; and he suggests that the hepatic cells are entirely engaged in the amyloid function of the liver, and unconnected with the biliary secretion. According to such views as those before stated, the anastomosing net- work of ducts described by Kiernan would be regarded as artificial pas- sages between the cells, formed by the force of injection ; and there is no doubt that passages of that sort may be made. In recent years, however. Budge, Andrejewic, Hyrtl, Frey, and other observers have succeeded in displaying by injection of the cellular substance of the lobules a network of fine canals of cylindrical form and regular diameter, and having therefore a character which cannot be explained on the supposition that they are irregular interspaces of accidental origin. The apparent improbability of the ducts of a secreting gland taking origin in minute tubes destitute of epithelium, and external to secreting cells, has led to great opposition to the view that the ducts in question are really bile ducts ; and Reichert has suggested that they are lymphatics : but within the present year, a set of researches have been published which invest the theory that the bile ducts begin within a fine intralobular plexus, v/ith additional weight. Chrzon- szczewsky, pursuing a method of experimenting by what may be called the natural injection of colouring matter into the vessels of living animals, by which he had previously succeeded in colouring the tubes and vessels of the kidney, sought for a colouring matter which, when introduced into the blood, would be eliminated in part by the bile without dyeing the textures indiscriminately ; and, after numerous failures, he at last found one sub- stance with the requisite properties,—viz., the sulpho-indigotate of soda (in use under the name of "indigo-carmine"). A saturated watery solu- tion of this substance was introduced, in repeated doses, into the circulation of dogs and sucking-pigs, by the jugular vein ; and in an hour and a half afterwards, while the animals were still living, the blood-vessels were either washed out with chloride of potassium introduced by the portal vein, or they were injected with gelatine and carmine. In specimens prepared in this way, Chrzonszczewsky obtained an extremely fine network of gall ducts