1013 OOMMOX ILlAr AETERlEfl. The common iliac artery is in most cases of sufficient length to admit of the applicition of a ligature without much apprehension of secondary haemorrhage occuriing iu consequence of insufficiency in this respect. But Fig. 701. Fig. 701.—View of the right exter- nal and internal Iliac Arteries of THE Male. ^ The viscera of tbe pelvis have been re- moved as well as the internal iliac veins. 1, lower part of the abdominal aorta; 1', middle sacral artery ; 2, 2, common iliac ar- teries ; 2', right exter- nal i liac ; 3, lower part of the vena cava inferior; 4, 4, com- mon iliac veins ; the number on tbe right points by a line to the rigbt internal iliac artery; 4', rigbt ex- ternal iliac vein ; 5, placed on tbe ilio- lumbar nervous trunk, points to tbe posterior division of the internal iliac artery giving off tbe gluteal ; 5', ilio- lumbar artery ; 5", lateral sacral artery with branches passing into tbe anterior sacral foramina; 6, placed on tbe anterior divi- sion of tbe first sacral nerve, points to tbe sciatic artery coming from tbe anterior division of tbe internal iliac; 7, pudic artery ; 7', the same artery passing bebind tbe spine of tbe iscbiura, and proceeding witbin tbe ischium and obtuiator internus muscle, accompanied by the pudic nerve towards tbe perinaeum ; towards /, inferior bsemorrboidal brandies are given off ; 7", superficial perineal artery and nerve ; 8, hypogastric artery, with tbe obliterated remains of tbe umbilical artery cut sbort, and 8', superior vesical brancbes rising from it,; 9, obturator artery with tbe corresponding nerve and vein ; 9', tbe pubic twigs wbicb anastomose with descending twigs of tbe epigastric artery, and from wbicb, by tbe enlargement of one of them, tbe abemint obturator artery may proceed ; 10, inferior vesical ; 11, middle haemorrboidal vessels rising in tbis instance from the pudic ; 12, epigastric artery winding to tbe inside of -H, +, tbe vas deferens and spermatic cord ; 13, circumflex iliac artery ; 14, spermatic artery and vein divided superiorly; 15, twigs of tbe ilio-lumbar artery proceeding to anastomose with the circumflex iliac. it has been shown (p. 420) to be in some instances very short—so short that the operation would be inadmissible. In any case in which the common trunk is thus short, it would probably be more prudent to place a ligature on the external i'iac and another on the internal iliac, at the origin of each, than to tie the common iliac artery, or the external iliac alone near its commencement. The surgeon has it in his power to judge of the length of the artery during