934 THE KIDNEYS. open to discussion whether all the smaller tubules which open into these arches belong to the convoluted and looped tubules already described, as is believed by the greater number of recent observers, or whether there is not likewise, as is held by Heule and Chrzonszczewsky, a set of small anasto- mosing tubule?, some of which may have blind extremities. Fig. 655. Fig. 655.—Diagram op the Looped Uriniferous Tubes and their Connection with the Capsules op THE Glomeruli (from Southey aftei* Ludwig). In tlie lower part of tbe figure one of the larger branching tubes is shown opening on a papilla ; in the middle part three of the looped small tubes are seen descending to form their loops, and reascending in the medul- lary substance ; while in the upper or cortical part two of these tubes, after some enlargement, are repre- sented as becoming convoluted and dilated in the capsules of glomeruli- According to Schweigger- Seidel the limbs of the looped tubes are always of unequal size, that which is continued into the intermediate tubes being the larger of the two ; and he divides the loops into two sorts, one in which the narrowest portion forms the loop, and another in which, at the loop, the tube is of the diameter of the larger of its two limbs. He likewise points out the existence of occa- sional capsular dilatations, where the looped tubes meet the inter- mediate portions, which, as ho remarks, may explain the state- ment of Moleschott, that he had found in mammals capsules com- municating with two tubules. The investigations of Chrzon- szczewsky deserve special men- tion, on account of the novel method to which he resorted for the verification of his views, and which promises to throw much light on some of the physiological processes as well as on the minute struc- ture of animals. This method consists in the introduction of the colouring matter with which the observed vessels are to be filled into the system of a living animal, either by direct infusion into the blood, or along with food into the alimentary canal, or by absorption from any of the larger serous cavities. The results of this mode of colouring the vessels and ducts