PERONEAL NERVE. 681 (a) Muscular branches are given to the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis, (6) Cutaneous branches given off before the final division are distributed to the lower part of the leg. (c) The internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, passing forwards along the dorsum of the foot, furnishes one branch to the inner side of the great toe, and others to the contiguous sides of the second and third toes. It gives other offsets, which extend over the inner ankle and side of the foot. This nerve communicates with the long saphenous nerve on the inner side of the foot, and with the anterior tibial nerve between the first and second toes. Fig. 450.—View op the Distribution op the Branches op the External Popliteal Nerve in THE Front of the Leg and Dorsum op the Foot (from Hirschfeld and Leveill^). | The upper part of the peroneus longus muscle has been removed, the tibialis anticus, the long extensor of the great toe and the peroneus longus have been drawn separate in the leg by hooks marked a, &, and c, and the tendons of the extensor muscles, have been removed in the dorsum of the foot, to show the deeper seated nerves; 1, the external popliteal or peroneal nerve winding round the upper part of the fibula; 1', its recurrent articular branches exposed by the dissection of the upper part of the tibialis anticus muscle; 2, 2, the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; 2', 2', twigs to the long and short peroneal muscles ; 3, internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve \ 3', 3', its dorsal digital branches to the inside of the great toe, and to the adjacent sides of the second and third toes; 4, the external branch ; 4', 4', its dorsal digital branches to the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes, and in part to the space between the fourth and fifth toes ; 5, the external saphenous nerve descending on the outer border of the foot, and uniting at two places with the outer branch of the musculo-cutaneous ; 5', its branch to the outer side of the fifth toe; 6, placed on the upper part of the extensor communis digitorum, marks the anterior tibial nerve passing beneath the muscles; 6, placed farther down on the tendon of the tibialis anticus, points to the nerve as it crosses to the inside of the anterior tibial artery ; 6', its muscular branches in the leg ; 6", on the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis points to the anterior tibial nerve after it has passed into the foot behind that tendon; 7, its inner branch uniting with a twig of the musculo- cutaneous, and giving the dorsal digital nerves to the adjacent sides of the first and second toes ; 8, distri- bution of its outer branch to the extensor brevis digi- torum and tarsal articulations. {d) The external branch, larger than the internal one, descends over the foot towards the fourth toe, which, together with the contiguous borders of the third and fifth toes, it supplies with branches. Cutaneous nerves, derived from this branch, spread over the outer ankle and the outer side of the foot, where they are connected with the short saphenous nerve. The dorsal digital nerves are continued on to the last phalanges of the toes. The number of toes supplied by each of the two divisions of the musculo-cuta- neous nerve is liable to vary ; together these nerves commonly supply all the toes on the dorsal aspect, excepting the outer side of the little toe, which receives a branch from the short saphenous nerve, and the adjacent sides of the great toe and the second toe, to which the anterior tibial nerve is distributed: with this latter branch, how- ever, it generally communicates.