10G6 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. of the last-mentioned mnscle, the posterior interosseous nervo ; and on the interosseons membrane the posterior interosseous artery, with its re- current branch ; they are both to be traced to their distril)ution (pp. 054 and 391). The lower part of the radial artery which has hitherto been hid from view may also now be studied : its posterior carpal and its meta- carpal branch will be seen, together witli the dorsal branches of the thumb and index finger (p. 398). The termination on the back of the wrist of the anterior interosseous artery after passing through the inter- osseous membrane is also to be noticed. Finally, the interossei muscles are to be dissected on both the palmar and dor.>>al aspects of the hand (p. 221). 10. Articulations of the Fore-arm and Hand.—The dissector may now return to an examination of the elbow-joint and other articulations of the upper limb. In connection with the elbow-joint, he will tir>t make a revi- Biou of the relation-^ of the soft parts to the joint, such as those of the triceps, bracliialis anticus and supinator brevis muscles, the muscles attached to the outer and inixer condyles of the humerus, and the median, musculo- spiral and ulnar nerves, together with the anastomoses of the superior and inferior profunda and the anastomotic branches of the brachial, with the two ulnar, the radial and the interosseous recurrent arteries. The dissector will then proceed to examine in detail the internal and external lateral ligaments, the anterior and the thin posterior ligaments, the orbicular ligament, the syno- vial membrane, and the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones (p. 1 38), The dissector should carefully observe the different kinds of motion of which the parts are capable, and the variations in the tightness of the ligaments and in the relations of external parts induced by these motions. In examin- ing the lower radio-ulnar articulation, the dissector will particularly study the relations of the triangular fibro-cartilage, and the nature of the move- ments in pronation and supination of the hand ; and, in the carpal joints, the extent of the synovial cavities and the position of the cartilage and in- terosseous ligaments. III.—THORAX. The right and left sides of this region constitute each a part. Its dissec- tion may be completed within three weeks. It includes the deep dis- Fection of the thoracic parietes, the viscera of the thoracic cavity, together with the upper surface of the diaphragm. It is indispensable that the dissectors of opposite sides should be present together and act in concert. 1. Farietes and Fhura.—The dissection is to be commenced on the fifth day after the subject has been placed upon its back, that is, the tenth day after it has been first placed in the rooms. The external and internal intercostal muscles, and the intercostal arteries and nerves in the anterior part of their course, together with the parietal pleura, are to be first dissected (pp. 240, 402 and 655). Then let the internal mammary artery on the right side be laid bare by the removal of the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th costal cartilages, in order that its relation to the sternum, and its anterior intercostal and perforating branches may be observed (p. 374). The corre- sponding costal cartilages on the left side may then be divided close to the ribs, and the ribs belonging to those cartilages on both sides are then to be divided as smoothly as possible about three inches beyond their angles ; in doing which the dissectors must be careful to avoid injuring their hands upon the sharp spicula of the sawn extremities of the ribs. The anterior