793 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. ing the borders of the maxillse. About the sixth week of embryonic life, a depression or groove, having the form of a horse-shoe, appears along the edge of the jaw, in the mucous membrane of the gum ; this is the primitive dental groove (Goodsir). From the floor of this groove (supposed to be represented in a transverse section, in the diagrammatic figure 551, 1) Fig. 551. Fig. 551.—DiAGIlAMMATIC OUTLINES OF SbOTIONS THROUGH THK DeNTAL GbRMS AND SaCP, AT Different Stages of Development (from Goodsir). 1, the primitive dental groove of the gum cut across in a foetus of about six weeks ; 2, a papilla rising within the dental groove ; 3, 4, and 5, represent the follicular stage in which the papilla (or future tooth-pulp) is seen sunk within the follicle, and the lips of the follicle or opercula advancing towards each other gradually meet and close in the fol- licle ; 5, may be looked upon as representing the section indicated by the line a b, in fig. 559, through the sac of an incisor tooth, in which a lunated depression (c) is left behind ; in 6, the lips of the groove are seen to come together ; in 7, the union of the lips being complete, the follicle becomes a closed sac s, containing the dental pulp x^, and having behind it the lunated depression c, now also enclosed, and forming the cavity of reserve for the germ of the corresponding permanent tooth ; in the remaining outlines, 8 to 12, are shown the commencement of the cap of dentine on the pulp, the subsequent steps in the formation of the milk tooth, and its eruption through the gum (11) ; also the gradual changes in the cavity of reserve, the appearance of its laminae and papilla, its closure to form the sac of the permanent tooth, its descent into the jaw, behind and below the milk tooth, and the long pedicle (12) formed by its upper obliterated portion. a series of ten papillse, as at 2, arise in succession in each jaw, and consti- tute the germs or rudimentary pulps of the milk-teeth. These pulps or papillse are processes of the mucous membrane itself, and not mere eleva- tions of its epithelium. The order in which they appear is very regular. The earliest is that for the first milk molar tooth : it is seen at the seventh week, as soon as the dental groove is formed ; at the eighth week that for the canine tooth appears ; the two incisor papillse follow next, at about the ninth week, the central one before the lateral ; lastly, the second molar papilla is visible at the tenth week, at which period this, the papillary stage of the rudiments of the teeth is completed. The papillse in the upper jaw- appear a little earlier than those in the lower jaw.—In the next place, the margins of the dental groove become thickened and prominent, especially the inner one ; and membranous septa or prolongations of the mucous mem- brane pass across between the papillse from one margin to the other, so as to convert the bottom of the groove into a series of follicles, each containing one of the papillse. These changes constitute the follicular stage ; they take place in the same order as that in which the papillse make their appearance, and are completed about the fourteenth week. During the early part of this