THE NOSE. CARTILAGES. 771 THE NOSE. The nose is the special organ of the sense of smell. It has also other functions to fulfil ;—for, communicating freely with the cavities of the mouth and lungs, it is concerned in respiration, voice, and taste ; and by means of muscles on its exterior, which are closely connected with the muscles of the face, it assists in the expression of the different passions and feelings of the mind. Fig. 528.—Lateral View of the Cartilages of THE Nose (from Arnold). J a, right nasal bone ; 6, nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; 1, upper lateral cartilage or wing-like expansion of the septal cartilage ; 2, lower lateral cartilage (outer part) ; 2*, inner part of the same ; 3, sesamoid cartilages. Fig. 528. This organ consists of, first, the anterior prominent part, composed of bone and car- tilages, with muscles already described, which slightly move the cartilages, and two orifices, anterior nares^ opening downwards; and, secondly, of the two nasal fossae, in which the olfactory nerves are expanded. The nasal fossae are separated from each other by a partition, septum nasi, formed of bone and cartilage : they communicate at the outer side with hollows in the neigh- bouring bones (ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and superior maxillary) ; and they open backwards into the pharynx through the posterior nares. The skin of the nose is studded, particularly in the grooves of the alse or outer walls of the no.-^trils, with numerous small openings, which lead to sebaceous follicles. Within the margin of the nostrils there is a number of short, stiff, and slightly curved hairs—vibrissce, which grow from the inner surface of the alse and septum nasi, as far as the place where the skin is continuous with the mucous membrane lining the cavity of the nose. CARTILAGES OP THE NOSE. These are the chief support of the outer part of the organ. They occupy the triangular opening seen in front of the nasal cavity in the dried skull, and assist in forming the septum between the nasal fossae. There are usually reckoned two larger and three smaller cartilages on each side, and one central piece or cartilage of the septum. The upper lateral cartilages (cartilagines laterales nasi) are situated in the upper part of the projecting portion of the nose, immediately below the free margin of the nasal bones. Each cartilage is flattened and triangular in shape, and presents one surface outwards, and the other inwards towards 3 E 2