ORIGIN OF THE DENTAL ERMS. Fig. 553.—Diagrams op the Mode op Fig. 553. 795 Origin op the Dental Gterm in THE Ruminant (after KoUiker). The three figures represent trans- verse sections of the gum and a part of the jaw at or shortly after the period of the formation of the germ, and are designed chiefly to show the relation of the germ to the epithelium. A, represents the state in a very early condition, when the primitive dental follicle of a milk or temporary tooth has been formed by a depression from the deep layer of the epithe- lium. B, represents a later stage, when the tooth papilla has risen from the surface of the mucous membrane, and has inflected the primitive dental follicle. C, represents a more advanced stage in which the dental sac has begun to be formed. c, the superficial thick epithelium of the gum only sketched in outline ; c', the deep layer of cylindrical cells ; /, the primitive tooth-follicle ; /', its cel- lular or granular contents and cavity ; p, the dental papilla, and afterwards tooth-pulp ; e, the inner inflected layer of the wall of the primitive fullicle forming the inner part of the enamel organ ; e', the outer wall of the same with the epithelial sprouts shooting into the tissue above ; s, the commencement of the dental sac ; /p, the follicle of the corresponding perraament tooth. "Waldeyer has shown by more recent observations, that in the human embryo the teeth arise in a manner essentially the same as that described by KoUiker in the rumi- nant. (Waldeyer, iib. die Entwick. der Zahne, Zeitsch, fur. ration. Me- dicin, 1865, and Henle's Bericht, &c. for 1864, p. 81.) The dental sacs, after the closure of the follicles, continue to enlarge, as do also their con- tained papillae. The walls of the sacs, which soon begin to thicken, consist of an outer fibro- areolar membrane, and an in- ternal highly vascular layer, lined by epithelium ; their blood- vessels are derived partly from the dental arteries which course along the base of the sacs, and partly from those of the gums. The papillae, now the dental pulps, acquire a perfect resem-