1067 pleurj: and pericardium. limits of the pleural cavities and tlie position of the anterior mediastinum can now be examined, together with the position of the heart and great vessels in relation to the lungs and the walls of the thorax (p. 299)- That this may be done more effectually, the lungs should be inflated through a tube introduced into the throat or wind-pipe, and their different positions and relations in the inflated and collapsed state attentively examined. The body of the sternum is next to be separated from the manubrium, and, together with the adherent costal cartilages of the left side, removed ; and on the fragment of the thoracic wall thus separated the triangularis sterni muscle and its relation to the internal mammary artery may be further examined. The dissectors will then complete their examination of the anterior mediastinum, observing in its upper part the remains (if any) of the thymus body, and will carefully study the remaining reflections of the pleura. The heart within the pericardium is also to be observed (p. 313). In making this dissection the student may be required to separate the parietal from the pulmonary pleura, by breaking up with his fingers, or the handle of the knife, the inflammatory adhesions which are often met with. Great care must be taken to clean with a sponge and wash the interior of the chest and the surface of the lungs, first with water, and subsequently with preserving fluid (p. 892). 2. Farts External to the Pericardium.—The phrenic nerve will be seen on each side beneath the pleura in front of the root of the lung, and is to be dissected out; when its relation to the internal mammary artery, which it crosses at the upper part of the chest, and the branch of the latter artery which accompanies it, are to be observed (p. 640). The structures above the pericardium are then to be dissected. Foremost will be found the inno- minate veins and superior vena cava, with the termination of the vena azygos, and several smaller veins, viz., the inferior thyroid, internal mammary, superior intercostal, and bronchial veins (p. 453) ; and behind the veins, the innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian arteries arising from the arch of the aorta (pp. 340, 341 and 364). The pneumo-gastric nerves will also be found, that of the right side lying external to the inno- minate artery, and its recurrent branch turning round behind the subclavian artery ; and that of the left side passing down in front of the arch of the aorta, with its recurrent branch winding behind the aorta (p. 618). Likewise crossing the arch of the aorta, on their way to the superficial car- diac plexus, will be found the cervical cardiac branch of the left pneumo- (>-astric nerve, and, usually, the superior cardiac branch from the sympathetic nerve on the left side (p. 690). The other cardiac nerves, viz., the cervical cardiac branch of the right pneumo-gastric nerve, the thoracic cardiac branches of both pneumo-gastric nerves, the three cardiac branches of the sympathetic chain of the right side, and the middle and inferior branches of the left side, are to be sought on the front and sides of the trachea, as they pass down to the deep cardiac plexus. The distribution of the pneumo- gastric nerves is then to be traced to the lungs and oesophagus ; and, as far as possible, the posterior and anterior pulmonary plexuses are to be brought into view (p. 623). After that has been done, the roots of the lungs are to be fully dissected, the relations of the pulmonary arte- ries and veins and the bronchi observed, and the bronchial arteries traced to their origins (pp. 897 and 402). 3. Interior of the Pericardium and Heart. — The pericardium having been examined on its outer aspect, is then to be cut open, and its interior carefully inspected (p. 300) ; after which it is to be removed, its remains