THE SPLEEN. 886 cat, and to a smaller extent in that of the ox and sheep, there has been found an abundant admixture of plain muscular fibres, resembling those of the middle coat of arteries. Meissner and W. Miiller affirm that they also find muscular fibres in the trabeculae and fibrous coat of the human spleen ; but the existence of such fibres is denied by other observers. The elasticity of the fibrous coat and trabeculse, together with whatever amount of mus- cularity they may possess, renders the spleen capable of the great and sudden alterations in size to which it is subject. The puljJ of the spleen is of a dark reddish-brown colour : when pressed out from between the trabeculsc it resembles grumous blood, and, like that fluid, it acquires a brighter hue on exposure to the air. This pulpy sub- stance lies altogether outside the veins, between the branches of the venous plexus. As shown by the microscope, it consists chiefly of numerous rounded granular bodies, which have a reddish colour, and are about the size of the blood corpuscles. Their cohesion is very slight, and the termi- nal tufts of the arterial system of vessels are spread out amongst them. In examining the substance of the spleen, elongated caudate corpuscles are seen in rather large numbers. And besides these there are round, nucleated cells, and free nuclei. There are also large cells, some of which are nucle- ated, and others not, but both of which contain blood corpuscles in various states of change. The splenic artery and vein, alike remarkable for their great proportionate size, having entered the spleen by six or more branches, ramify in its inte- rior, enclosed within the elastic sheaths already described. The smaller branches of the arteries run along the trabeculse, and terminate in the proper substance of the spleen in small tufts of capillary vessels arranged in pencils. These are supported by fine microscopic trabeculae which run through the pulp in all directions. The main branches of artery which enter the spleen appear to have few or no anastomoses within the substance of the organ, for it has been justly remarked that if one of them be injected, the material of injection will return by the corresponding vein before spreading to other parts of the spleen : and it only returns by the vein after injection of the pulp. The veins, which greatly exceed the arteries in size, anastomose frequently together, so as to form a close venous plexus, placed in the intervals between the trabeculse, and supported by them. There is still great difi"erence of opinion as to the manner in which Fig. 621. Fig. 621.—A Small Fragment op a Prepared Spleen unravelled (from KolHker). J_ 250 a, finest reticulum ; 6, transversely cut capillary veins which have lost their epithelium; c, veins in which the epithelium is more or less preserved ; rf, longitudinal section of the same; e, a capillary vessel lying in the finest splenic tissue. the arteries and veins are connected. According to Gray, the capillaries traverse the pulp in all directions, and terminate either directly in the veins, or open into lacunar spaces, from which the veins originate. Billroth and Kolliker admit only the direct termina- tion in veins ; Stieda and W. Miiller maintain that a network of inter- cellular passages intervenes.