CILIAEY MUSCLE AND LIGAMENT. 721 The vessels and nerves have a radiating arrangement through the stroma; the former giving rise to rings, one at the circumference, the other near the pupil; and the latter forming a network. See the description of the vessels and nerves of the vascular coat. ' Pupillary memlrane (membrana pupillaris).—In foetal life a delicate transparent membrane thus named closes the pupil, and completes the curtain of the iris. The pupillary membrane contains minute vessels, continuous with those of the iris and of the capsule of the crystalline lens; they are arranged in loops, which converge towards each other, but do not quite meet at the centre of the pupil. At about the seventh or eighth month of foetal life these vessels gradually disappear; and, in proportion as the vascularity diminishes, the membrane itself is absorbed from near the centre towards the circumference. At the period of birth, often a few shreds, sometimes a larger portion, and occasionally the whole membrane is found persistent. (See also the account of the development of the eye.) CILIARY MUSCLE, LTGAMENTUM PECTINATUM AND CIRCULAR SINUS. When the outer coat of the eyeball is separated from the choroid, a circular groove is seen passing round on the inner surface of the sclerotic, at its corneal margin. This groove is the outer wall of a venous canal, the sinus circularis iridis or canal of Schlemm. On the middle coat a corresponding groove, which completes the canal, is seen,—and this is bounded in front by a torn membranous edge bounding the anterior surface of the iris, the ligamentum pectinatum, while the thickest part of the white ring of the ciliary muscle is behind it. This canal communicates with other venous spaces which give an erectile appearance to the tissue at the base of the ciliary processes. The ligamentum pectinatum consists of slight festoon-like processes of the fibres of the iris, lying in a transparent elastic fibrous tissue continuous with the i^osterior elastic layer of the cornea. It is a more developed structure in the eyes of the sheep and ox than in the human eye, and in them the festooned processes are prominent, giving a milled appearance like that of the edge of a coin. The ciliary muscle (Bowman) forms a ring of unstriped muscular tissue about -^Qth. of an inch broad on the fore part of the choroid. Its fibres, yellowish-white in colour, and longitudinal in direction, are attached in front to the inner surface of the sclerotic coat ; and are also connected with the terminal fibres of the posterior elastic layer of the cornea. From that origin the fibres are directed inwards and backwards in a manner which in a section appears radiated, and end by joining the choroid coat opposite and beyond the ciliary processes. The muscle is soft, and ramified pigment cells are scattered through its substance. Concealed by the longitudinal or radiated fibres is a ring of fibres taking a circular direction, and which were still described as the ciliary ligament after the radiated fibres had been admitted to be muscular. This set consti- tutes the circular muscle of H. Miiller. The ciliary muscle appears to be in some way eflfective in producing the change in the form of the lens which takes place in accommodation of the eye to near vision (see Allen Thomson in Glasgow Medical Journal " for 1859). VESSELS AND NERVES OP THE MIDDLE TUNIC OF THE EYE. . The arteries of the choroid and the ciliary processes are derived from the posterior and anterior ciliary vessels. The posterior consist of two sets, distin- guished as the short and the long. The short (posterior) ciliary tranches of the 3 B