844 THE INTESTINE. Fig. 589.—Vertical Section op Fig. 589. divide, and form upon its surface, beneath the epithelium and limiting membrane, a fine capillary network, from which the blood is returned for the most part by a single vem. The lacteal lies in the centre of the villus, and is in the smaller villi usually a single vessel, with a somewhat expanded extremity, and of considerably larger diameter than the capillaries of the blood-vessels around. Accordiug to the observations of Teichmann, there are never more than two intercom- municating lacteals in a single villus in the human subject ; but both he and Frey find a copious network of them in the villi of the sheep. Considerable difierence of opinion exists as to the nature of the wall of the lacteal in the villus, and even as to whether or not any wall exists, and this point must be considered as still undetermined. The epithelium of the villi is of the columnar kind ; the cell wall is delicate, and the nucleus distinct. The nature of both the free and the attached extremities of the cells is involved THE Intestinal Mucous Mem- brane OP THE Rabbit (slightly altered from Frey). 152 Two villi are represented, in one of which the dilated lacteal alone is represented, in the other the blood- vessels and lacteal are both shown injected, the lacteal white, the blood-vessels dark : the section is carried through the tubular glands into the submucous tissue : a, the lacteal vessels of the villi ; a\ below the glands, the horizontal lacteal, which they join ; 6, the capillary blood-vessels shown only in one of the villi; c, a small artery ; d, a vein ; e, the epithelium covering the villi; /, the substance of the villi, presenting interstices which contain lymph-cells; g, tubular glands or crypts of Lieberkiihn, some divided in the middle, others cut irregularly ; i, the submucous layer. A, cross section of three tubular glands more highly magnified. in some doubt. At the free extremity, they present to view a thick layer of substance with vertical striae, which, on treatment with water, swells out and loses its striated appearance. This layer was first recognised by Kol- liker and by Funke, who both consider the strise to be minute perforating canals ; while Brettauer and Steinach, and likewise Henle, maintain that they are rods comparable with cilia. Brucke, previous to the discovery of the striated body, advanced the opinion that the epithelium cells were alto- gether open at their free extremities, and that each communicated likewise with the interior of the villus by a foramen at the deep extremity. Brettauer and Steinach support Briicke's view, in respect that they consider the striated body as continuous with the cell contents, and not with the cell wall. With regard to the deep extremities of the epithelial cells, Heidenhain believes that he has observed them prolonged into fine threads, which communicate with branches of anastomosing connective-tissue-corpuscles, and considers