702 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. ramifies on the branches of the vena portae and the hepatic artery. Offsets from the left pneumo-gastric and diaphragmatic nerves join the hepatic plexus at the left side of the vessels. From .this plexus filaments are furnished to the right supra- renal plexus, as well as other secondary plexuses which follow the branches of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a cystic plexus to the gallbladder; and there are pyloric^ gasiro-epiploic, and gastro-duodenal plexuses, which unite with coronary, splenic, and mesenteric nerves. The S2:)lenic plexus, continued on the splenic artery and its branches into the substance of the spleen, is reinforced at its beginning by branches from the left semi- lunar ganglion, and by a filament from the right vagus nerve. It furnishes the left gastro-epiploicdin^ pancreatic plexuses, which course along the corresponding branches of the splenic artery, and, like the vessels, are distributed to the stomach and pancreas. Superior Mes'enteric Plexus.—The plexus accompanying the superior mesenteric artery, whiter in colour and firmer than either of the preceding oflfsets of the solar plexus, envelopes the artery in a membraniform sheath, and receives a prolongation from the junction of the right pneumo-gastric nerve with the coeliac plexus. Near the root of the artery, ganglionic masses (gangl. meseraica) occur in connection with the nerves of this plexus. The offsets of the plexus are in name and distribution the same as the vessels. In their progress to the intestine some of the nerves quit the arteries which first sup- ported them, and are directed forwards in the intervals between the vessels. As they proceed, they divide, and unite with lateral branches, like the arteries, but without the same regularity: they finally pass upon the intestine along the line of attachment of the mesentery. THE AORTIC PLEXUS. The aortic or iutermesenteric plexus, placed along the abdominal aorta, and occupying the interval between the origin of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, consists, for the most part, of two lateral portions, connected with the semilunar ganglia and renal plexuses, which are extended on the sides of the aorta, and which meet in several larger communicating branches over the middle of that vessel. It is joined by branches from some of the lumbar ganglia, and presents not unfrequently one or more distinct ganglionic enlargements towards its centre. The aortic plexus furnishes the inferior mesenteric plexus and part of the spermatic, gives some filaments to the lower vena cava, and ends below in the hypogastric plexus. Inferior Mesenteric Plexus.—This plexus is derived principally from the left lateral part of the aortic plexus, and closely surrounds with a network the inferior mesenteric artery. It distributes nerves to the left or descending part and the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and assists in supplying the rectiim. The nerves of this plexus, like those of the superior mesenteric plexus, are firm in texture, and of a whitish colour. The highest branches (those on the left colic artery) are connected with the last branches (middle colic) of the superior mesenteric plexus, while others in the pelvis unite with offsets derived from the pelvic plexus. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. The hypogastric plexus, the assemblage of nerves destined for the supply of the viscera of the pelvis, lies invested in a sheath of dense connective tissue, in the interval between the two common iliac arteries. It is formed by eight or ten nerves on each side, which descend from the aortic plexus, receiving considerable branches from the lumbar ganglia, and, after crossing the common iliac artery, interlace in the form of a flat plexiform mass placed in front of the lowest lumbar vertebra. The plexus contains no