SOLAE PLEXUS. 699 Coronary Plexuses,—The anterior coronary plexus, formed at first from the fibres of the superficial cardiac plexus, passes forwards between the aorta and pul- monary artery, and, having received an accession of fibres from the deep cardiac plexus, follows the course of the left or anterior coronary artery. The posterior coronary ylexus, derived chiefly from the left part of the deep car-- diac plexus, but joined by nerves from the right portion of that plexus, surrounding the branches of the right coronary artery accompany them to the back of the heart. Nervous filaments ramify in great number under the lining membrane of the heart. They are not so easily distinguished in man as in some animals. In the heart of the calf or lamb they are distinctly seen without dissection, running in lines which cross obliquely the muscular fibres, Remak was the first to observe that these branches are furnished with small ganglia, both on the surface and in the muscular substance. (Miiller's "Archiv," 1844.) SOLAR OR EPIGASTRIC PLEXUS. The solar or epigastric plexus, which is the largest of the prevertebral centres, is placed at the upper part of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and in front of the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm. Surrounding the origin of the coeliac axis and the upper mesenteric artery, it occupies the interval between the suprarenal bodies, and extends downwards as far as the pancreas. The plexus consists of nervous cords, with several ganglia of various sizes connected with them. The large splanchnic nerves of both sides, and some branches of the pneumo-gastric, terminate in it. The branches given off from it are very numerous, and accompany the arteries to the principal viscera of the abdomen, constituting so many secondary plexuses on the vessels, Tims diaphragmatic, coeliac, renal, mesenteric, and other plexuses are recognised, which follow the corresponding arteries. Sendlunar ganglia.—The solar plexus contains, as already mentioned, several ganglia ; and by the presence of these bodies, and their size, it is distinguished from the other prevertebral plexuses. The two principal ganglionic masses, named semilunar, though they have often little of the form the name implies, occupy the upper and outer part of the plexus, oue on each side, and are placed close to the suprarenal bodies by the side of the coeliac and the superior mesenteric arteries. At the upper end, which is expanded, each ganglion receives the great splanchnic nerve. Diaphragmatic Plexus,—The nerves (inferior diaphragmatic) composing this plexus are derived from .the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, and are larger on the right than on the left side. Accompanying the arteries along the lower surface of the diaphragm, the nerves sink into the substance of the muscle. They furnish some filaments to the suprarenal body, and join with the spinal phrenic nerves. At the right side, on the under surface of the diaphragm, and near the suprarenal body, there is a small ganglion, ganglion diaphragmaticum, which marks the junc- tion between the phrenic nerves of the spinal and sympathetic systems. From this small ganglion filaments are distributed to the vena cava, the suprarenal body, and the hepatic plexus. On the left side the ganglion is wanting, but some filaments are prolonged to the hepatic plexus. Suprarenal Plexus.—The suprarenal nerves issue from the solar plexus and the outer part of the semilunar ganglion, a few filaments being added from the diaphrag- matic nerve. They are short, but numerous in comparison with the size of the body which they supply : they enter the upper and inner parts of the suprarenal cap- sule. These nerves are continuous below with the renal plexus. The plexus is joined by branches from one of the splanchnic nerves, and presents a ganglion (gangl. splanchnico-supra-renale), where it is connected with those branches. The plexus and ganglion are smaller on the left than on the right side.