673 SMALL SCIATIC NERVE. clitoris, labia, and other corresponding parts in the female. It communi- cates with the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve. SMALL SCIATIC NERVE. The small sciatic nerve (nervus ischiadicus minor) is chiefly a cutaneous nerve, supplying the integument of the lower part of the buttock, the back of the thigh, and upper part of the calf of the leg; it furnishes also branches to one muscle—the gluteus maximus. This nerve is formed by the union of two or more nervous cords, derived from the lower and back part of the sacral plexus. Arising below the pyriform muscle, it descends beneath the gluteus maximus, and at the lower border of that muscle comes into contact with the fascia lata. Continuing its course downwards along the back of the limb, it perforates the fascia a little below the knee. Fig. 444. — Deep Nerves in the Fig. 444. Gluteal and Inferior Pudendal Regions (from Hirschfeld and Le- veille). I a, hack part of the great trochanter; h, tensor vaginae femoris muscle; c, tendon of the obturator intern us muscle near its insertion ; d, upper part of the vastus externus ; e, coccyx ; /, gracilis muscle ; between / and d, the adductor magnus, semitendinosus and biceps muscles ; * placed at the meeting of the crura penis above the urethra ; 1, placed upon the ilium close above the sacro-sciatic notch, marks the superior gluteal nerve, and on the divided parts of the gluteus medius muscle, the supe- rior branch of the nerve ; 1', on the surface of the gluteus minimus muscle, the inferior branch of the nerve ; 1", branch of the nerve to the tensor vaginas femoris ; 2, sacral plexus and great sciatic nerve ; 2', muscular twig from the plexus to the pyriformis ; 2", mus- cular branches to the gemellus superior and obturator internus ; 3, lesser sciatic nerve; 3', placed on the upper and lower parts of the divided gluteus maximus, the inferior gluteal muscular branches of the lesser sciatic nerve; 3", the cutaneous branches of the same nerve winding round the lower border of the gluteus maximus ; 4, the continuation of the lesser sciatic nerve as posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; 4', inferior pudendal branch of the lesser sciatic; 5, placed on the lower part of the sacral plexus, points to the origin of the pudic nerve ; 6, its perineal division with its muscular branches ; 6', anterior or superior superficial perineal branch ; 6", posterior or inferior superficial perineal; + +, distribution of these nerves and the inferior puden- dal on the scrotum; 7, dorsal nerve of the penis. The branches of the small sciatic nerve are as follows :— A. The inferior gluteal branches, given off under the gluteus maximus, supply the lower part of that muscle.—A distinct gluteal branch commonly proceeds from the sacral plexus to the upper part of the muscle. B. The cutaneous branches of the nerve principally emerge from beneath the lower border of the gluteus maximus, arranged in an external and an internal set. Others appear lower down.