THE EAR. 766. series of rods, and by narrow bodies witb flattened extremities to the outer series : at its outer margin it has not yet been demonstrated that it is attached to the wall of the cochlea, although it has been supposed that its function might be to give fixity to the rods of Corti. Besides the rods and the lamina reticularis the organ of Corti presents various cellular elements. Of these the most important are an outer and inner series of cells with stiff Fig. 523. A. B. Fig. 523 A.—View from above of the Organ op Corti and Lamina Reticularis in THE Ox (from Kolliker). 1*9 a, inner rods or fibres of Corti; 6, inner ends of the same with the deeper attached nuclei ; c, articulating part of the same ; d, clear plates appended, which with others from the outer rods form the commencement of the membrana I'eticularis ; e, outer rods or fibres of Corti ; /, their articulating portions ; g, their terminations at the membrana basilaris ; h, plates of the outer rods belonging to the membrana reticularis; ii, apparent extension of the ends of the fibres of Corti in the striae of the zona pectinata of the basilar membrane ; I, their inner connecting plates ; I', their outer connecting plates ; m, n, 0, first, second, and third series of perforations ; p, rectangular terminal part of the lamina ; q, prolongation of this in the form of fibres upon the large epithelial cells of the organ of Corti. Fig. 623 B.—The Organ of Corti op the Cat (from Kolliker). 212 1, the organ of Corti from above ; c, the articulated part of the inner fibres or rods ; d, connected plates which form the commencement of the membrana reticularis ; /, articulating portions of the outer rods ; one of these connected with a filamentous process, and presenting granular or punctated contents ; m, n, o, first, second, and third row of perforations, in which the cilia of Corti's cells are represented as dark arched lines ; a, inner ciliated cells with (j8) their cilia, forming the outermost part of the thick epithelium of the sulcus spiralis (7), and which covers the inner fibres (rods) of Corti as far as their articulating parts ; 5, outer part of the network of the lamina reticularis ; 2, a cell of Corti with its hairs, but no visible filamentous appendage ; 3, lateral view of the lamina reticularis with the bundles of cilia of the cells of Corti.