1064 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMBS. median nerve immediately above the annular ligament. On the fore-arm will be found the radial, median and ulnar veins ; in front of the elbow the median-cephalic and median-basilic veins, together "vvith the deep median branch ; and in the upper arm the cephalic and basilic veins (p. 4GG). 5. Brachial TiCgion more, deeply.—The student will now remove the aponeurosis from the front of the arm. He will first dissect out the brachial artery with the vena3 comites clinging to it and inter-communicating round it, and the median nerve cros>ing in front (p. 381). Arising from the inner side of the artery he will find the superior profunda branch turning bacliwards with the musculo-spiral nerve, a little farther down the inferior profunda branch accompanying the ulnar nerve, and a little above the elbow, the anastomotic resting on the brachialis anticus muscle : while from the outer side of the brachial artery a variety of muscular branches are observed to spring. The inferior profunda sometimes arises from the superior profunda branch. Not unfrequently two largo arteries will be found in the arm, in consequence of a high division of the main trunk ; the radial or ulnar artery, most frequently the ft)rmer, being given off from the brachial at a higher point than usual, and sometimes even as high as the axillary artery. In some of these cases the aitery which arises out of place lies superficially to the aponeurosis of the limb. The biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles are next to be dissected, and the deep part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, which gives them branches (pp. 212 and 648). The dissector will be careful to preserve the aponeurotic slip of insertion of the biceps, which lies superficially to the vessels at the bend of the arm. The aponeurosis is to be removed from the back of the arm, and the intermuscular septa are to be examined (p. 230) : the triceps muscle is to be dissected, and the superior profunda artery and musculo- spiral nerve are to be traced to its outer side (pp. 214 and G52). The musculo-spiral nerve is to be followed to its division into the radial and posterior interosseous trunks, and its branches, to the brachialis anticus, supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior displayed. The space in fiont of the elbow should next be dissected, so as to show the relations in it of the brachial, ulnar, and radial arteries, with the radial recurrent and anterior ulnar recurrent branches, and the median and radial nerves (pp. 389 and 397). The brachialis anticus muscle should also at this time be fully exposed down to its place of insertion. 6. Shoulder-joint, £c.—The articulations at the upper part of the arm ought now to be examined (p. 134). The conoid and trapezoid parts of the ligaments uniting the clavicle to the coracoid process are first to be dis- sected, and their uses studied ; then the acromio-clavicular articulation, and the suprascapular and coraco-acromial ligaments of the scapula ; lastly, the shoulder joint is to be dissected, the capsule is to be cleaned, the coraco-humeral ligament dissected, and the tendons of muscles in close relation with the joint examined. AThen lastly the capsule is opened, the origin of the long head of the biceps in connection with the gle- noid ligament will be seen, and also the prolongations of the synovial membrane round the long head of the biceps and beneath the subscapular muscle. 7. The Fore-arm in front.—Let the aponeurosis be removed from the front of the fore-arm, and let the five superficial muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus be dissected, beginning with the pronator radii teres ; exhibiting its two heads of origin with the median nerve between