THE PONS VAROLII. 521 for the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is really the place of origin of the greater root of the fifth or trigeminal nerve. Fig. 353.—Transverse Section Fig. 353. OF THE MePULLA OBLONGATA (after Stilling), i The section is made at the level of the middle of the olivary bodies ; the effect produced by transmitted light is brought out on the left- hand side of the figure, the half to the right being only sketched. a, anterior, and p, posterior fissure; h, anterior pyramid; c, olivary body with its corpus dentatum shown internally; d, grey tubercle of Rolando in the lateral column ; e, the restiform body and its nucleus ; /, nucleus of the roots of the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve; g, nucleus of the pneumo-gastric nerve that of the hypoglossal nerve ; i, the septum or raphe; 8, roots of the pneumo-gastric nerve emerging ; 9, roots of the hypoglossal nerve. THE PONS VAROLII AND CEREBELLUM. The Pons Varolii, or iuber annulare (mesoceplialon of Cbaussier, nodus encephali of Rau and Sommerring), forms an eminence of transverse fibres above and in front of the medulla oblongata, below and behind the crura cerebri, and between the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. Its margins are arched ; the superior much more so than the inferior : thus, at the sides its transverse fibres are much more gathered together, and form at the place where it passes into the cerebellum a narrower bundle, which is named the middle cms of the cerebellum. In, the middle line the pons presents a shallow groove in which the basilar artery lies, and is perforated by small branches of that artery. Although the superficial fibres are transverse in their general direction, they are not all parallel to each other. The middle fibres pass directly across, the lower set ascend slightly, whilst the superior fibres, which are the most curved, descend obliquely to reach the crura cerebelli on each side ; and there are also one or more superficial bands of the superior fibres which cross obliquely downwards over the middle and lower fibres, and completely conceal them at the sides. In its internal structure the pons consists of the longitudinal or peduncular fibres prolonged upwards from the medulla oblongata, of its own transverse or commissural fibres, through which the longitudinal fibres pass, and of a large intermixture of grey matter. Behind the superficial transverse fibres are seen the prolonged fibres of the anterior pyramids, which, as they ascend through the pons, are widely separated into smaller bundles, intersected by other transverse white fibres, which, with those upon the surface, are all continued into the cerebellum. The alternation of transverse and longitudinal fibres just described extends to a considerable depth in the pons, the quantity of transverse fibres greatly preponderating ; posteriorly there succeeds a third layer, consisting entirely of longitudinal fibres, and comprehending the olivary fasciculi, and the fasciculi teretes. The median septum, or raphe, which exists in the medulla oblongata, is M M