1036 SUKGICAL ANATOMY OF HEENI/E. outwards in the groin, no error in diagnosis is likely to arise. It is only in distinguishing between a bubonocele and a femoral hernia of moderate size that a diflSculty occurs. The position of the femoral hernia is, in most cases, characteristic. The tumour is upon the thigh, and a narrowed part, or neck, may be felt sinkiug into the thigh near its middle. Besides, the femoral arch is usually to be traced above this hernia, while that band is lower than the mass of a tumour lodged in the inguinal canal. At the same time the inguinal tumour covers the femoral arch, and cannot be withdrawn from it like a femoral hernia, when it has turned over that cord. Some assistance will be gained, in a doubtful case, from the greater facility with which the tumour emerging at the saphenous opening admits of being circumscribed, in comparison with the bubonocele, which is bound down by a more resistent structure—the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. Other practical applications of the foregoing anatomical observations come now to be considered. The taxis.—During the efforts of the surgeon to replace the hernia, the thigh is to be flexed upon the abdomen and inclined inwards, with a view to relax the femoral arch ; the tumour is, if necessary, to be withdrawn from over the arch, and the pressure on it is to be directed backwards into the thigh. The operation.—The replacement of the hernia by the means just adverted to being found impracticable, an operation is undertaken with the view of dividing the femoral canal (or some part of it), thereby widening the space through which the protruding viscus is to be restored to the abdomen, or with the view of relieving strangulation when the restoration of the part is not possible or not desirable. Inasmuch as the manner of conducting the operation chiefly depends on the place at which the constricting structures are to be cut into, it will be convenient in the first instance to determine this point ; and with this object we shall inquire into the practicability and safety of making incisions into the femoral canal at different points of its circumference. As the hernia rests upon the pelvis, the posterior part of the canal may at once be excluded from consideration ; so likewise may its outer side on account of the position of the femoral vein, and also the outer part of its anterior boundary, because of the presence of the epigastric artery in this direction. There remains only the inner boundary with the contiguous part of the anterior one, and through any point of this portion of the ring or canal an incision of the required extent (always a very short one) can be made without danger in nearly all cases. The sources of danger are only occasional ; for the urinary bladder, when largely distended, and the obturator artery when it turns over the femoral ring—a very unusual course—are the only parts at the inner side of the hernia liable to be injured ; v/hile the last-named vessel, when it follows the course just referred to, and in the male the spermatic cord, are the structures in peril when the anterior boundary of the canal is cut into towards the inner side of the hernia (see p. 624 and fig. 291). Returning now to the steps of the operation :—After it has been ascer- tained that the urinary bladder is not distended, the skin is to be divided by a single vertical incision made on the inner part of the tumour, and extending over the crural arch. When the subcutaneous fat (the thickness of which is very various in different persons) is cut through, a small blood- vessel or two are divided, and some lymphatic glands may be met with. The haemorrhage from the blood-vessels seldom requires any means to restrain it ; but the glands, if enlarged, retard the operation in some