741 STRUCTURE OF THE PINNA. surrounds the entrance to the external auditory meatus, and is unequally- divided at its upper part by a ridge, which is the beginning of the helix. In front of the concha, and projecting backwards over the meatus auditorius, is a conical prominence, the tragus, covered usually with hairs. Behind this, and separated from it by a deep notch (incisura intertragica), is another smaller elevation, the antitragus. Beneath the antitragus, and forming the lower end of the auricle, is the lohule, which is devoid of the firmness and elasticity that characterise the rest of the pinna. The thinner and larger portion of the pinna is bounded by a prominent and incurved margin, the helix, which, springing above and rather within the tragus, from the hollow Fig. 496.—OoTER Surface op the Pinna op the Right Fig. 496. Auricle. | 1, helix ; 2, fossa of the helix ; 3, antihelix ; 4, fossa of the antihelix ; 5, antitragus; 6, tragus; 7, concha ; 8, lobule. of the concha, surrounds the upper and posterior margin of the auricle, and gradually loses itself in the back part of the lobule. Within the helix is another curved ridge, the antihelix, which, beginning below at the antitragus, sweeps round the hollow of the concha, forming the posterior boundary of that concavity, and is divided superiorly into two diverging ridges. Between the helix and the antihelix is a narrow, curved groove, the fossa of the helix (fossa innominata, scaphoidea) ; and in the fork of the antihelix is a somewhat tri- angular depression, the fossa of the antihelix (fossa triangularis vel ovalis). Structure.—The pinna consists of a thin plate of cartilage and of integu- ment, with a certain amount of adipose tissue. It presents also several ligaments and small muscles of minor importance. The skin of the pinna is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and contains sebaceous follicles, which are most abundant in the hollows of the concha and scaphoid fossa. The cartilage presents all the inequalities of surface already described as apparent on the outer surface of the pinna ; and on its cranial surface exhi- bits prominences the reverse of the concha and the fossa of the helix, while between these is a depression in the situation of the antihelix. This carti- lage is not confined to the pinna, but enters likewise into the construction of the outer part of the external auditory canal. When dissected separate from other structures it is seen to be attached by fibrous tissue to the rough and prominent margin of the external auditory meatus of the temporal bone. The tubular part is cleft in front from between the tragus and fore part of the helix inwards to the bone, the deficiency being filled with fibrous membrane ; thus the cartilage may be said to be a plate, a part of which assumes the tubular form by being folded so as to bring the upper margin, which lies in front of the tube of the ear, nearly into contact with the lower part, which being coiled inwards upon itself forms the upper border of the tragus. Following the free border of the plate backwards beneath the meatus, it is seen to pass round the lower margin of the concha, and to form the prominences of the tragus and antitragus, while the cartilage is absent alto-