THE URmE. THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. 939 must be considered approximative only, since the proportion of the ingredients is liable to great variation in dependence upon food, exercise, and other conditions : — Urea ........ 49-68 Uric acid . . . . . . . 1'61 Extractive matters, ammoniacal salts, and chloride of sodium . 28*95 Alkaline sulphates . . . . . 11*58 Alkaline phosphates . . . . . .5-96 Phosphates of lime and magnesia .... "I'oO 99-28 Among the extractive matters are kreatine, kreatinine, and hippuric acid. SUPRARENAL BODIES. The suprarenal bodies or capsules, or suprarenal glands, (capsulse- atrabi- larioe sen renes suocenturiati of old anatomists), are two flattened bodies, each of which has a somewhat crescentic or bent triangular shape, and sur- mounts the corresponding kidney. The upper border, convex and thin, is often considerably elevated in the middle so as to fortn two sides of a tri- angle. The lov»^er border is concave, and rests upon the anterior and inner part of the summit of the kidney, to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue : it is thick, and almost always deeply grooved. The posterior sur- face rests upon the diaphragm. Its anterior surface is covered on the light side by the liver, and on the left by the pancreas and spleen : it presents an irregular fissure named the hilus, from which the suprarenal vein emerges. The right capsule, like the right kidney, is placed lower down than the left. The suprarenal capsules vary in size in different individuals, and the left is usually somewhat narrower at its base, but longer from above downwards, and larger than the right. They measure from an inch and a quarter to an inch and three-quarters in height, and about an inch and a quarter in width ; their thickness is from two to three lines. The weight of each in the adult is from one to two drachms. Besides a covering of areolar tissue mixed frequently with much fat, the suprarenal capsules have a thin fibrous investment. Externally, they have a yellowish or brownish-yellow colour. When divided, they are seen to consist of two substances : one, external or cortical, is of a deep yellow colour, firm and striated, and forms the principal mass of the organ ; the other, internal or mednllary, is in the adult of a dark brownish-black hue, and so soft and pulpy that some anatomists have erroneously described a cavity within it. The fibrous investment is so intimately connected with the deeper parts that it cannot be removed without lacerating the subjaceut structure. Its deeper layers are destitute of elastic fibres, and are particularly rich in nuclei: they are continuous with the septa which enter into the formation of the substance of the organ. The cortical part of the suprarenal body, examined with a low magni- fying power, is seen to consist of stroma, in which are imbedded columnar and reticulated masses measuring on an average 75-5th of an inch in diameter, arranged vertically to the surface of the organ, and containing cellular constituents. In the deepest part of the cortex, however, the colour is darker, and the columnar arrangement is lost, the stroma being more equally scattered ; and immediately beneath the fibrous coat there is another very narrow layer in which the stroma forms oval spaces, of which it is difficult to say whether they communicate with the extremities of the columns or not. These inner and outer layers have been named by J. Arnold respectively zona reticularis and zona glomerulosa, while he applies the term