842 THE INTESTINE. The internal or mucous coat is characterised by presenting all over its inner surface a finely flocculenfc or shaggy appearance, like the pile upon velvet, owing to its being covered with multitudes of minute processes, named villi ; hence it is also named the villous coat. It is one of the most vascular membranes in the whole body, and it is naturally of a red- dish colour in the upper part of the small intestine, but becomes paler, and at the same time thinner towards the lower end. The mucous tissue con- tains beneath its basement membrane, a thin muscular layer, demonstrated easily in animals, but scarcely recognisable in man. It presents for consider- ation, 1, the large folds called valvulce conniventes ; 2, the villi and epithelium ; 3, the glands. 1. Valvulce Conniventes.—The folds and wrinkles found upon the inner surface of the oesophagus and stomach may be completely obliterated by full distension of those parts of the alimentary canal. In the lining membrane of the small intestine, however, there exist, beside such eflfaceable folds, other permanent ones, which cannot be obliterated, even when the tube is forcibly distended. These permanent folds are the valmdm conniventes, or valves of Kerkring. They are crescentic projections of the mucous mem- brane, placed transversely to the course of the bowel, each of them reaching about one-half or two-thirds of the distance round the interior of the tube, and they follow closely one upon another along the intestine. The largest of these valves are about two and a-half inches long and one- third of an inch wide at the middle or broadest part ; but the greater number are under these dimensions. Large and small valves are often found to alter- nate with each other. Some of them are bifurcated at one end, and others terminate abruptly, appearing as if suddenly cut olf. Each valve consists of a fold of the mucous membrane, that is, of two layers placed back to back, united together by the submucous or areolar tissue. They contain no part of the circular and longitudinal muscular coats. Being extensions of the mucous membrane, they serve to increase the absorbent surface to which the food is exposed, and at the same time they contribute to delay its passage along the intestine. There are no valvulas conniventes quite at the commencement of the duodenum ; about an inch or somewhat more from the pylorus they begin to appear ; beyond the point at which the bile and pancreatic juice are poured into the duodenum they are very large, regularly crescentic in form, and placed so near to each other that the intervals between them are not greater than the breadth of one of the valves : they continue thus through the rest of the duodenum and along the upper half of the jejunum ; below that point they begin to get smaller and farther apart ; and finally, towards the middle of the ileum, having gradually become more and more irregular and indistinct, sometimes even acquiring a very oblique direction, they alto- gether disappear. 2. Villi.—The villi, peculiar to the small intestine, and giving to its internal surface the velvety or villous appearance already spoken of, are small, elongated, and highly vascular processes, which are found situated closely together on every part of the mucous membrane, over the valvulse conniventes, as well as between them. They are best displayed by placing a piece of intestine, well cleansed from its mucus, under water, and examin- ing it with a simple lens. The prevalent form of the villi is that of minute, flattened, bell-shaped membranous processes ; others are conical or cylin- drical, or even clubbed, or filiform at the free extremity. A few are com- pound as if two or three villi were connected together at their base.