727 COLUMNAR LAYER OF THE RETINA. 1. The columnar layer (stratum bacillorurn), consists of innnmerable thin rods, placed veitically side by side like palisades, and of other larger bodies, more or less thickly interspersed among these, and named cones. These Fig. 476.—Vertical Section of a Small Part op THE Retina (after Kolliker). 252 A, entire section of a small part of the retina ; B, two cones represented separately in their connection with the fibres of Mtiller and other structures ; C, two rods represented separately in their connection with the granules, fibres of Muller, and the nerve- cells ; 1, columnar layer; a, in A and C, the rods, in B, the terminal part of the cone ; b, cones ; 2, granular layer; c, outer layer of nuclei (striated corpuscles of Henie) ; d, inner layer of nuclei; /, inter-nuclear layer ; 3, nervous layer ; g, fine mole- cular substance outside A, the nerve cells ; Jc, nerve fibres ; /, membrana limitans ; e, inner ends of the fibres of Muller resting on the limiting membi-ane. structures are glistening, soft, easily des- troyed, and lose their characters quickly in fluids. The rods are of uniform diameter, and are abruptly truncated externally. The cones are flask-shaped in the inner part of their extent, and taper to a rod-like extremity ex- ternally. Each cone rests on a pyriform cell continuous with it, and forming the extremity of a fibre of Muller ; while the rods end internally in pointed extremities ranging with these pyriform cells, and represented as formed by similar bodies (Kolliker) ; but this continuity with Miillerian fibres is still disputed. The dilated portions of the cones present granular contents, and a similar appearance is described in the inner halves of the rods. At the outer ends the rods pro- ject somewhat farther than the cones. When the outer surface of the retina is viewed about midway between its centre and margin with a strong enough magnifying power, a number of minute globular-looking bodies, the ends of the rods appear; and between them, at a deeper level, other Fig. 476. Fig. 477. Fig. 477. —Outer Surface of the Columnar Layer of THE Retina (from Kolliker). ^ a, part of the columnar layer within the macula lutea, where only cones are present ; 6, part near the macula, whei-e a single row of rods intervenes between the cones; c, from a part of the retina midway between the macula and the ora serrata, showing a preponderance of the rods. transparent larger bodies, the swellings of the cones, are seen, with a smaller circle within each—the end of its narrower part. Towards the margin the rods become more numerous ; near the centre the cones predominate ; and in the macula lutea the cones alone are seen. 2. The external and internal nuclear divisions of the granular layer are two collections of rounded and oval corpuscles, refracting light pretty strongly. The corpuscles of the internal nuclear layer are small cells with large nuclei.