1009 SUBCLAVIAN" ARTERIES. LIGATURE. Before concluding the remarks on the third division of the artery, it should be mentioned that the suprascapular or transverse cervical artery may be met with in the operation, which in other cases may be complicated by the occurrence of a branch, or, however rarely, of branches taking rise beyond the scalenus muscle. The second division of the subclavian artery is the part which rises highest in the neck, and on this account it may be advantageously selected for the application of a ligature when the vessel is difficult of access beyond the muscle. The chief objection to operating on the artery in tliis situation arises from the contiguity of the large branches. Care is necessary in dividing the scalenus muscle to avoid the phrenic nerve and the internal jugular vein. Moreover, the fact of the entire of the subclavian artery being in apposition with the pleura, except when it rests on the rib, must be borne in mind. Some difficulty may arise from a change in the position of the artery, as when it lies between the fibres of the anterior scalenus, or when it is in front of that muscle; but such cases are of very rare occurrence, and the knowledge of the fact that the vessel may be thus displaced, will assist the surgeon in the event of difficulty arising from this cause. Before it reaches the scalenus muscle the left subclavian artery [plate 2] may be said to be inaccessible for the application of a ligature, in consequence of its depth and its close connection with the lung and other structures cal- culated to create difficulty in an operation, among which may be mentioned the internal jugular and left innominate veins. To the difficulties resulting from the manner of its connection with the parts now named, must be added the danger of performing an operation in the neighbourhood of the large branches. On the right side, though deeply placed and closely connected with im- portant parts, the first division of the subclavian artery may be tied with- out extreme difficulty. But inasmuch as the length of the vessel, between its three large branches on the one hand, and the common carotid on the other, ordinarily measures no more than an inch, and often less, there is little likelihood of the operation in question being successfully performed in any case ; and the probability of success must be held to be still farther diminished when it is considered that the length of the free part of the artery is sometimes lessened by one of the large branches arising nearer than usual to its commencement. In order to place a ligature on the portion of the right subclavian artery here referred to, it is necessary to divide by horizontal incisions the three muscles which cover it, together with the layers of fascia between and beneath them [plate 17, fig. 1} While the muscles are being divided, a branch of the suprascapular artery will probably require to be secured [plate 16]. The position of the inner end of the clavicle and of the trachea, and the efiect of pressure with the finger on the circulation in the aneurism or in the limb, will assist the surgeon in finding the artery with- out dissecting the surrounding parts to an unnecessary and injurious extent —a precaution of importance in all cases. In the farther steps of the operation, the exact position of the internal jugular vein, the vagus nerve and the pleura, are to be well remembered. The right subclavian artery is occasionally somewhat more deeply placed than usual in the first part of its course : and this occurs when it springs from the left side of the arch, or, more frequently, when it separates from the innominate behind the carotid [plate 20, fig. 4]. 3 u