1043 ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA.—LITHOTOMY. endaiigered. The part of the intestine now under observation rests against the conjoined levatores aui, the coccyx, and the sacrum. The lower end of the rectum receives small arteries on each side from the pudic ; but its principal artery (the superior hemorrhoidal, the continuation of the inferior mesenteric, p. 412,) descends behind the organ and ends in branches about three inches from the anus, which enter the gut and anastomose in loops opposite the internal sphincter. The veins, like those of the abdomen generally, are without valves. These vessels are very liable to enlarge and become varicose ; and this condition is constantly associated with or even forms a great part of the disease known as hyomorrhoids. Ischio-rectal fossa.—On each side of the rectum between it and the ischial tuberosity is contained a considerable quantity of fat, the space which it occupies being named the ischio-rectal fossa. This hollow extends back- wards from the perinasum to the great gluteal muscle ; it is bounded on the inner side by the levator ani as this muscle descends to support the intestine, and on the opposite side by the obturator fascia and muscle supported by the hip-bone. At the outer side and encased in a sheath of the obturator fascia is the pudic artery with the accompanying veins and nerve ; and small offsets from these cross the fossa to supply the lower end of the rectum. The pudic artery, it will be observed, is about an inch above the lower surface of the tuber ischii, and at the same time, by its position under that prominence of the bone, it is protected from injury by incisions directed backwards from the periuseum ; but in front of this part (in the perinseum proper), inasmuch as the vessel lies along the inner margin of the subpubic arch, it is here liable to be wounded when the deeper structures of the perinseum are incised. The fossa is narrowed as it reaches upwards into the pelvis ; such nar- rowing of the space is the necessary result of the direction of the levator ani, which drops inwards from the fascia on the side of the pelvis, and thus limits the fossa at its upper end. LATERAL OPERATION OP LITHOTOMY. The intention of the operation, as it is usually performed, is to remove a calculus from the urinary bladder by an opening made through the perinseum and the prostatic part of the urethra. The incisions to attain this end are commonly made on the left half of the perinoeum : because this side is most convenient to the right hand of the operator ; but if the surgeon should operate with the left hand, then the opposite (right) side of the perinoeum would be most convenient. The position at which the perinfBum is to be incised requires careful consideration. For if the necessary incisions should be made too near the middle line of the body, the bulbous enlargement of the corpus spongiosum urethrse and the rectum are liable to be wounded ; and if, on the other hand, the perinseum should be divided towards its outer boundary (the pubic arch), there is a risk of wounding the pudic artery where that vessel has reached the inner edge of the bone. The incisions are therefore to be made through the area of the small perinaeal space in such manner as to avoid both its sides. Again, as to the length to which the several struc- tures are to be incised :—The integument and the subcutaneous fatty layer must be divided with freedom, because, first, the skin does not admit of dilatation during the removal of the foreign body ; and, secondly, exten- sive incisions through the structures near the surface facilitate the egress