THE KIDNEYS. 936 and ureter, may be traced into the sinus of the kidney, where they lie amongst the infundibula, together with which they are usually imbeddeil in a quantity of fat. Penetrating the sub- Fjg- 658. stance of the organ between the papillaj, the arterial branches enter the cortical substance found in the intervals between the medullary cones, and go on, accompanied by a sheathing of areolar tissue derived from the proper coat, and dividing and subdividing, to reach the bases of the pyramids, where they form arches between the cortical and medullary parts, which however are not complete, and in this respect differ from the freely anasto- mosing venous arches which accompany them. From the arches smaller interlobular Fig. 658. —Injected Glomerulus from the inner PART OE THE CORTICAL SUBSTANCE OP THE HoRSE S Kidney (from Kolliker after Bowman). \" a, iuterlobular artery ; af, afferent artery ; wim, convoluted vessels of the glomerulus ; efy efferent or straight arteriole ; b, its subdivision in the medul- lary substance. arteries are given off", which pass outwards between the double layers of Malpighian cap- sules which intervene between the pyramids of Ferrein; and from these interlobular arteries are derived the afferent arteries of the glo- meruli. The renal arteries give branches like\^ise to the capsule of the kidney which anastomose with branches of the lumbar ar- teries, and that so freely that Ludwig was able partially to inject the kidneys of a dog from the aorta after the renal arte- ries had been tied. (See also Turner as cited at p. 417.) Within the glomerulus the afferent artery breaks up into convoluted branches of capil- lary minuteness, which are gathered together again to form the efferent vessel. The efferent vessel is so far comparable with the vena portse of the liver that it breaks up again into capillaries, which form a close honeycomb network surrounding the convoluted tubules, and a less copious network with elongated meshes round the straight tubes of the cortical substance. Within the medullary substance are found numbers of straight vessels, vasa recta, which lie between the uriniferous tubes, and at the bases of the Malpighian pyramids are arranged in bundles extending inwards from between the pyramids of Ferrein. These vessels partly break up into capillaries, from which returning veins arise, and partly, as has been already noticed, form loops similar to those of the looped tubules of Henle. The mode in which the vasa recta take origin has been made the subject of considerable discussion. According to Bowman, Kolliker, and Ludwig and Zuwarykin, the vasa efferentia from the innermost glomeruli are larger than the others, and break into brushes of these vasa recta. Arnold, Virchow, Beale, and others maintain the direct origin of vasa recta from the renal arteries without intervention of the glomeruli. Huschke, Henle