THE CEREBRUM. 552 The pineal body, or yland (conarium), is a small reddish body, which is placed beneath the back part of the corpus callosum, and rests upon the anterior elevations of the corpora quadrigemina. It is attached to the under surface of the velum interpositum, so that it is liable to be torn away from the brain in removing that membrane. It is about the size of a small cherry-stone. Its base of attachment, which is its broader part, is directed forwards, and is connected with the rest of the cerebrum by white substance. This white substance is principally collected into two small rounded bundles, named peduncles of the pineal gland, which pass forwards upon the optic thalami along their upper and inner borders, and may be traced as far as the anterior pillars of the fornix, in conjunction with which they descend. These peduncles are connected with each other behind, and the band of union between them is adherent to the back of the posterior commissure. This hand is represented by Reichert as folding forwards and then backwards, so as to leave a hollow, which he calls recessus pinealis, opening backwards above the pineal body. Some anatomists have described two inferior peduncles, which descend upon the inner surface of the thalami. The pineal gland is very vascular. It is hollowed out into two or more cells, which, sometimes at least, open anteriorly into the ventricle, and almost always contain, besides a viscid fluid, a quantity of gritty matter, named acervulus cerebri. This consists of microscopic round particles, aggregated into small compound masses, which are again collected into larger groups. It is composed of the so-called amylaceous, or amyloid bodies, and of earthy salts combined with animal matter, viz., phosphate and carbonate of lime, with a little phosphate of magnesia and ammonia (Stromeyer). It is found at all ages, frequently in young children, and sometimes even in the foetus. It cannot, therefore, be regarded as the product of disease. This sabulous matter is frequently found on the outside of the pineal body, or even deposited upon its peduncles. It is found also in the choroid plexuses; and scattered corpora amylacea occur in other parts of the membranes of the brain. Huschke has pointed out that the pineal body is larger in the child and the female than in the adult male. In the brains of other mammals it is proportionally larger than in the human subject, and less loaded with the matter of acervulus cerebri. The corpora or tubercula quadrigemina are four rounded eminences, separated by a crucial depression, and placed two on each side of the middle line, one before another. They are connected with the back of the optic thalami, and with the cerebral peduncles at either side; and they are placed above the passage leading from the third to the fourth ventricle. The upper or anterior tubercles are somewhat larger and darker in colour than the posterior. In the adult, both pairs are solid, and are composed of white substance on the surface, and of grey matter within. They receive bands of white fibres from below, the majority of which are derived from a fasciculus named the fillet. A white cord also passes up on each side from the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina, and is continued onwards to the thalami : these two white cords are the pro- cessus a cerebello ad cerebrum, or superior peduncles of the cerebellum. A t each side of the corpora quadrigemina there proceed outwards two white bands, which pass to the thalami and to the commencements of the optic tracts. These bands are prominent on the surface, and are sometimes named hrachia.