THE EAK. 764 Fig. 521. -Upper or Vestibular Surface of a Narrow Strip op the Lamina Spiralis Membranacea (from Kolliker after Coiti). 225 1 The drawing is defective as regards the organ of Corti, but explains the nomenclature of the parts introduced by that author, and more or less adhered to by subsequent writers, although variously departed from in some of its details. The nomenclature adopted in the text has been selected from various writers, and it will be observed diflfers considerably from the following : a, periosteum of the zona spiralis ossea ; dw, lamina spiralis mem- branacea ; dw\ zona denticulata ; df, habenula sulcata ; d, place where the perios- teum thickens ; e, granules in the areola of the habenula sulcata ; fg, teeth of the first series ; gfli, sulcus vel semicanalis spiralis ; A, its lower wall ; hw\ habenula denticu- lata ; hm, apparent teeth ; nt, teeth of the second series ; np, inner segments of the same ; o, swellings with nuclei ; pq and qz, articulating pieces of the same ; t, anterior segments of the second series ; s, s, s, three cylindrical cells placed on them ; m, epithelial cells placed under the membrane of Corti; w'w, zona pectinata; aa, band-like elevations of the habenula sulcata ; j8, placed where a tooth of the first series takes its origin ; 7, holes between the apparent teeth ; S, fore part of one of the teeth of the second series thrown back ; e, one of them in its place without its epithelial cells ; Q one with only the lowest epithelial cell; •»?, one with the two lowest cells ; 3-, strigs or slight elevations of the zona pectinata; k, periosteum attaching the lamina spiralis, with A, apertures between the bundles. the increasing breadth of the membrane from base to apex of the cochlea is due to broadening of the zona pectinata. According to the same observer the membrane is mainly homogeneous, and in the outer zone is thicker than in the inner, and somewhat tuberculated ; but on the surface towards the membranous canal it is transversely striated by a layer of extremely delicate fibres ; and on the other surface is a less perfect layer of fibres, with spindle-shaped corpuscles, which are placed longitudinally, aad in young subjects are arranged so as to cover the inner zone and the attachment to the spiral ligament, leaving the outer zone free. A single layer of epithelium lies on this surface. The ligamentum spirale (musculus codtlearis of Todd and Bowman) is triangular in section, receiving at its inner angle the basilar membrane, and spreading out rapidly to be attached by a broad base to the wall of the cochlea. Its fibres are directed outwards from the membrane to the boue, and it exhibits nuclei, like the ciliary muscle, whence Todd and Bowman conceived it to be muscular. Heusen represents it as composed of branch- ing nucleated cells. The organ of Corti.—Under this name may be comprised the whole of the structures intervening between the membrana basilaris and membrana tectoria. The most prominent part of it is formed by an outer and an inner series of rods, which, attached respectively to the inner and outer margins of the inner zone of the basilar membrane, meet together like the beams of a roof, and cover in a three-sided space, of which the inner zone of the basilar membrane is the floor. These structures, the fibres or rods of Corti, are closely adherent by their lower extremities to the basilar membrane. They are placed with the regularity of piano kejs, and have been likened in con-