THE CERVICAL NERVES AND PLEXUS. 640 are two of these nerves, or, in some cases, a greater number. They arise from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and descend in the interval between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius muscles. As they approach the clavicle, the nerves are augmented to three or more in number, and are recognised as internal, middle, and posterior, a. The tw^erwaZ (sternal) branch, which is much smaller than the rest, ramifies over the inner half of the clavicle, and terminates near the sternum. h. The middle branch, lying opposite the interval between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, distributes some twigs over the fore part of the deltoid, and others over the pectoral muscle. The latter join the small cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. c. The external or posterior branch (acromial) is directed outwards over the acro- mion, and the clavicular attachment of the trapezius muscle, and ends in the integu- ment of the outer and back part of the shoulder. in. Deep Branches : Inner Series. CONNECTING BRANCHES. The cervical plexus is connected near the base of the skull with the trunks of the pneumo-gastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, by means of filaments intervening between those nerves and the loop formed by the first two cervical nerves in front of the atlas (p. 637). MUSCULAR BRANCHES. Branches to the anterior recti muscles proceed from the cervical nerves close to the vertebrae, including the loop between the first two of these nerves. Two branches to the ansa hypoglossi, one from the second, the other from the third cervical nerve, descend over or under the internal jugular vein, to form a loop of communication with the ramus descendens noni, and aid in the supply of the muscles below the hyoid bone (p. 626), PHRENIC NERVE. The diaphragmatic or phrenic nerve passes down through the lower part of the neck and the thorax to its destination. It commences from the fourth cervical nerve, and receives usually a fasci- culus from the fifth. As it descends in the neck, the nerve is inclined inwards over the anterior scalenus muscle ; and near the chest it is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes also by another filament derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. As it enters the thorax each phrenic nerve is placed between the sub- clavian artery and vein, and crosses over the internal mammary artery near the root. It then takes nearly a straight direction, in front of the root of the lung on each side, and along the side of the pericardium,—between this and the mediastinal part of the pleura. Near the diaphragm it divides into branches, which separately penetrate the fibres of that muscle, and then diverging from each other, are distributed on the under surface. The right nerve is placed more deeply than the left, and is at first directed along the outer side of the right innominate vein, and the descending vena cava.