956 MALE OEGANS OF GENEEATION". the fibres of the superficial fascia ; it is triangular in form ; one edge is free, another is connected with the fore part of the pubic symphysis, and the third with the dorsum of the penis. The integuments of the penis are supplied, with blood by branches of the dorsal artery of the penis and external pudic ; the veins join the dorsal and external pudic veins. Their nerves are entirely derived from the dorsal branches of the pudic nerves. THE CORPORA CAVERNOSA. The corpora cavernosa form the principal part of the body of the penis, and chiefly determine its form and consistence. They are two cylindrical bodies, placed side by side, flattened on their median aspects, and. closely united and in part blended together along the middle Hue for the anterior three-fourths of their length ; whilst at the back part, in contact with the symphysis pubis, they separate from each other in form of two bulging and Fig. 6/0. Fig. 670.—Root of the Penis attached TO THE Rami of the Pubes and Ischium (from Kobelt). | a, a, accelerator urinse muscle covering the bulb of the spongy body of the urethra, which presents at e, posteriorly, a median notch ; 5, b, anterior slips of the muscle or bulbo-cavernosi ; c, c, crura of the penis, presenting an oval dilatation, or bulb of the corpus cavernosum ; d, d, erectores penis muscles ; /, corpus spon- giosum urethrge. then tapering processes named crura, which extend backwards attached, to the pubic and. ischial rami, and invested by the erectores penis or ischio-cavernosi muscles. Imme- diately behind their place of union, they are slightly enlarged, so as to form what are named by Kobelt the hulhs of the corpora cavernosa, parts which attain a much greater proportionate development in some quadrupeds. In front, the corpora cavernosa are closely bound together into a single rounded extremity, which is covered by the glans penis and firmly connected to its base by fibrous tissue. The under surface of the united cavernous bodies presents a longi- tudinal groove, in which is lodged the corpus spongiosum, containing the greatest part of the canal of the urethra. The upper or anterior surface is also marked with a slight median groove for the dorsal vein of the penis, and near the root is attached to the pubes by the suspensory-ligament. Structure.—The median septum between the two corpora cavernosa is thick and complete behind ; but farther forward it becomes thinner, and imperfectly separates their two cavities, for it presents, particularly towards the anterior extremity, numerous clefts, extending from the dorsal to the urethral edge, and admitting of a free communication between the erectile