1084 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMBS. plantar artery is to be dissected forwards to the inner side of the great toe ; and the internal plantar nerve, after giving branches to the abductor poUicis, flexor brevis pollicis and two inner lumbricales muscles, will be traced forwards to its distribution on both sides of the three inner toes and one side of the fourth toe (pp. 446 and 677). The deep branch of the external plantar nerve is to be traced to its distribution in the two outer lumbricales, the transversus pedis, adductor pollicis, and all the interossei muscles, save the outermost two, which, together with the flexor minimi digiti, are supplied by the external digital branch. The arch of the external plantar artery will at the same time be traced to the first inter- osseous space, and its digital and other branches dissected (p. 447). After these parts have been examined, the att ichments of the flexor brevis and abductor pollicis, transversus pedis, and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles are to be fully studied. 7. The Front of the Leg, and Dorsum of the Foot.—The remaining in- tegument having been removed from the front of the leg and upper surface of the foot, the dissector will trace the cutaneous veins and nerves in this region. On the inner border of the foot will be found the small terminal twigs of the internal saphenous nerve, and in front of the inner ankle the commencement of the great saphenous vein (pp. 475 and 6GG) ; while on the foot externally, and passing behind the outer ankle, will be observed the external or posterior saphenous vein and nerve (pp. 476 and 677). On the middle of the leg externally, the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be seen piercing the aponeurosis and becoming superficial, and its distribution is to be traced to the inner side of the great toe and to the adjacent sides of the toes in the three outer interdigital spaces (p. 680) ; while the first inter- digital space will be found supplied by a branch continued from the anterior tibial nerve. Immediately above and to the inside of the ankle-joint will be found the upper transverse and the lower oblique parts of the anterior annular ligament or retinaculum binding down the tendons of the extensor muscles (p. 295). These are to be kept, the rest of the aponeurosis being removed : there will thus be exposed in order from within outwards, the tibialis anticus, extensor pollicis, extensor longus digitorum, atid peroneus tertius muscles, which are to be dissected to their insertions (p. 279). On the dorsum of the foot the extensor brevis dii^itorum is also to be dissected ; preserving at the same time the anterior tibial vessels and nerves, and the musculo-cutaneous nerves already mentioned. Arising from the outer aspect of the fibula, the peroneus longus and brevis muscles are then to be cleaned (p. 282) : the latter is to be traced to its insertion, but the course of the tendon of the peroneus longus across the sole of the foot will be more fully seen when the ligaments are dissected. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is to be traced upwards to its origin from the external popliteal or peroneal nerve, and, as it pierces the fibres of the peronei muscles in its course round the fibula, its branches to these muscles will be seen. The anterior tibial nerve is then to be traced beneath the muscles and round the fibula, and downwards on the front of the interosseous membrane, and will be found to supply in the leg the extensor longus digitorum, tibialis anticus, extensor pollicis, and peroneus tertius muscles, and on arriving at the foot, the extensor brevis digitorum (p. 682). The anterior tibial artery will at the same time be dissected, and its branches traced, viz., its recurrent branch passing upwards on the tibia through the origin of the tibialis anticus muscle, to anastomose with the articular branches of the popliteal artery ; its muscular branches, and its external and internal malleolar branches :