525 CENTEAL LOBE.—FOURTH VENTRICLE. of grey matter indented on the surface, and named the furroived band. Still further forward is the anterior pointed termination of the inferior vermiform process, named the nodule, which projects into the fourth ven- tricle, and has been named the laminated tubercle (Malacarne). On each side of the nodule is a thin white lamella of a semilunar form, which is attached by its posterior convex border, and is free and concave in front. The outer ends of these lamellae are attached to the floceuli, and the inner ends to the nodule, and to each other in front of that projection. The two lamellse together constitute the posterior medullary velum, which has been compared with the valve of Vieussens,—the one being attached to the superior extremity and the other to the inferior extremity of the middle or vermiform portion of the cerebellum. This posterior velum is covered in and concealed by the amygdalae, and cannot be properly seen until those lobules have been turned aside or removed. The Fourth Ventricle.-^The space left between the medulla oblongata in front and the cerebellum behind, is named the fourth ventriqle, or ventricle of the cerebellum. Fig. 357.—View of thk Fig. 357. Floor of the Fourth Ven- tricle WITH the Posterior Surface op the Medulla Oblongata and neigh- bouring PARTS (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Le- veille). On the left side the three cerebellar peduncles have been cut short ; on the right side the white substance of the 2 cerebelhm has been preserved in connection with the supe- rior and inferior peduncles, while the middle one has been cut short. 1, median groove of the fourth ventricle with the fas- ciculi teretes, one on each side ; 2, the same groove at the place where the white strias of the acoustic nerve emerge from it to cross the floor of the ventricle ; 3, inferior peduncle or restiform body ; 4, posterior pyramid ; above this the calamus scriptorius ; 5, superior peduncle or processus a cerebello ad cerebrum ; on the right side the dissection shows the superior and inferior peduncles crossing each other as they pass into the white stem of the cerebellum ; 6, fillet to the side of the crura cerebri; 7, lateral grooves of the crura cerebri; 8, corpora quadri- gemina. The cavity of this ventricle is of a flat rhomboidal shape, being contracted above and below, and widest across its middle part. The anterior extremity of the inferior vermiform process projects into it from behind, and higher up it is covered by the Vieussenian valve. It is bounded laterally by the superior peduncles, and by the line of union of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum. The upper end of the ventricle is continuous with tho Sylvian aqueduct or passage (iter) leading up to the third ventricle. The anterior surface or fioor of the fourth ventricle is formed by the back of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii. It is shaped like a lozenge,