THE (ESOPHAGUS.—THE ABDOMEN. 823 Minute papillae are seen upon this mucous membrane, placed at some distance from each other, and the whole is covered with a thick squamous epithelium, which can be traced as far as the cardiac orifice of the stomach, where it suddenly passes into one of a difi'erent character, as will be here- after noticed. The gullet is provided with many small compound racemose glands, named oesophageal glandsj which are especially numerous at the lower end of the tube. Dilatations occasionally occur in the course of the oesophagus. Diverticular pouches are also sometimes found, but appear in all cases to be of hernial origin. Duplicity of the oesophagus in part of its extent, without other abnormality, has been recorded (Blaes, quoted by Meckel). THE ABDOMIJfAL PORTION OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. As that part of the digestive canal which is found beneath the diaphragm, and consists of the stomach and intestines, is situated within the cavity of the abdomen, and occupies, together with the liver (the secretion of which it receives), by far the greater part of that cavity, the topographic relations of the abdominal viscera may here be briefly explained. TUB ABDOMEN. The abdomen is the largest cavity in the body, and is lined by an exten- sive and complicated serous membrane, named the peritoneum. It extends from the diaphragm above, to the levatores ani muscles below, and is subdivided into two parts : an upper and larger part, the abdomen, properly so called ; and a lower part, named the pelvic cavity. The limits between the abdominal and pelvic portions of the cavity are marked by the brim of the pelvis. The enclosing walls of this cavity are formed principally of muscles and tendons which have been already described (p. 248). They are strengthened internally by a layer of fibrous tissue lying between the muscles and the peritoneum, the different parts of which are described under the names of fascia transversalis, fascia iliaca, and anterior lumbar fascia (p. 257). These walls are pierced by several apertures, through which are transmitted the great vessels and some other parts, such as the several diaphragmatic apertures for the aorta, vena cava, and oesophagus, and the femoral arches and inguinal canals. In the median fibrous substance of the anterior wall lies the umbilical cicatrix. The cavity of the pelvis is also lined with strong fasciee (p. 260), and partially by peritoneum, and at its lower part it presents the apertures for the transmission of the rectum and the genito-urinary passages. For the purpose of enabling precise reference to be made to the situation and condition of the contained organs, the abdomen proper has been arti- ficially subdivided into certain regions, the boundaries of which are indicated by lines drawn upon the surface of the body. Thus, two horizontal lines drawn round the body divide the cavity into three zones : viz. an upper, a middle, and a lower. One of these lines, commencing at the most prominent point of the lower costal cartilages of one side, is drawn across to the cor- responding point on the opposite side, and thence horizontally round the back to the place at which it began. The other line, proceeding from the crest of the ilium of one side, extends to that of the other, and so round the body, as in the former instance. Each of these zones again is subdivided