FORMATION OF THE DENTAL SUBSTANCES. 797 Fig. 555.—Vertical Transverse Sec- Fig. 555. matrix containing a few very fine molecules, thinly disseminated in it. At the exterior of the pulp, the cells become elongated, and arranged perpendicularly to the tion OP THE Dental Sac, Pulp, &c., OP A Kitten (from Kolliker after a preparation by Tiersch). l± a, dental papilla or pulp, the outer darker part consisting of the dentine cells ; b, the cap of dentine formed upon the summit; c, its covering of enamel ; d, inner layer of epithelium of the enamel organ ; e, gelatinous tissue ; /, outer epithelial layer of the enamel organ; g, inner layer, and A, outer layer of the dental sac. surface, so as to form a tolerably regular layer, resembling a columnar epi- thelium. The pulp contains white areolar fibres, without any elastic or yellow tissue, and it is highly vascular. The capillary vessels are most abun- dant at the points where ossification is to commence ; they form a series of loops between rows of cells arranged in a radiate manner, but they do not reach the surface. Besides this, the entire pulp is covered by a fine pellucid homogeneous membrane, named the preformative membrane (Purkinje, Raschkow), or basement membrane. The space between the pulp and the wall of the sac is occupied by a delicate substance accurately applied to its surface. This is the outer pulp of Hunter, termed also the enamel organ [organon adamanlince, Purkinje), being generally considered to be connected with the formation of the enamel. It presents three layers; viz., externally, an epithelial layer with prominences which fit in between vascular processes of the surrounding mucous membrane ; internally, a layer of cylindrical nucleated cells, named the enamel membrane, resting on the pre- formative membrane; and between these, a bulky substance, consisting of small stellate cells anastomosing by long processes, and having the large meshes between them filled with clear fluid. This structure was formerly supposed to be similar to the primitive pulp ; but, as was first stated by Huxley and since confirmed by Kolliker, the whole enamel organ is epithelial in nature, being derived by invagination from the cuticle. The dentine is formed at the surface of the pulp, beneath the preformative mem- brane, but the precise manner in which it is derived from the soft tissues is still a matter for investigation. According to Purkinje, Retzius, and Raschkow, the preformative membrane is the part which first undergoes calcification, and after- wards the tissue of the pulp immediately beneath it. On gently separating the newly-formed cap of dentine from the formative pulp, in the growing teeth of the human subject or of animals, and examining it under the microscope, the elongated cells of the pulp are found adhering in numbers to the inner surface of the newly- formed dentine. Owen states that the nuclei of the elongated cells, having them- selves become lengthened, divide both longitudinally and transversely to develop secondary cells which continue included within the primary cells. The secondary cells then elongate, and together with their nuclei join end to end. Calcification proceed.^ in all parts, except in the nuclei of the secondary cells which remain as the cavities or lumina of the tubes; the walls of the secondary cells are supposed to form the parietes of the tubes, and the material between the secondary cells together with the walls of the primary cells to be converted into the intertubular sul)- stance. The bifurcation of the tubuli is said to result from the junction of two