VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TESTIS. 975 These ejaculatory ducts serve to convey the fluid contained in the seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia into the urethra. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TESTIS. The testicle and its excretory apparatus receive blood-vessels and nerves from different sources from those which supply the coverings of those parts. The spermatic artery, or proper artery of the testicle (p. 414), is a slender and remarkably long branch, which arises from the abdominal aorta, and passing down the posterior abdominal wall reaches the spermatic cord, and descends along it to the gland. In early foetal life its course is much shorter, as the testis is then situated near the part of the aorta from which the artery arises. As the vessel approaches the testicle, it gives oflF small branches to the epididymis, and then divides into others which perforate the tunica albuginea at the back of the gland, and pass through the corpus Highmorianum ; some spread out on the internal surface of the tunica albuginea, whilst others run along between the lobes of the testis, supported by the fibrous processes of the mediastinum. The smallest branches ramify on the delicate membranous septa between the lobes, before supplying the seminiferous tubes. The vas deferens receives from the superior vesical artery a long slender branch which accompanies the duct, and is hence named the deferent artery or artery of the vas deferens (p. 421), It ramifies on the coats of the duct, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. The spermatic veins (p. 473) commence in the testis and epididymis, pass out at the posterior border of both, and unite into larger vessels, which freely com- municate with each other as they ascend along the cord, and form a plexus, named the pampiniform plexus. Ultimately two or three veins follow the course of the spermatic artery into the abdomen, where they unite into a single trunk, that of the right side opening into the vena cava, and that of the left into the left renal vein. The lymphatics (p. 495) accompany the spermatic vessels and terminate in the lumbar lymphatic glands, which lie about the large blood-vessels in front of the vertebral column. According to Ludwig and Tomsa, they begin in a large network of spaces which completely fills the intervals between the tubuli seminiferi. According to Henle, these intervals are occupied by granular matter, which he compares with the contents of nerve cells, and which abounds in rounded nuclei. (Ludwig and Tomsa, in Sitzungsberichte d. Kaiserl. Akad. Vienna, 1862.) The nerves are derived from the sympathetic system. The spermatic plexus (p. 701) is a very delicate set of nervous filaments, which descend upon the spermatic artery from the aortic plexus. Some additional fila- ments, which are very minute, come from the hypogastric plexus, and accompany the artery of the vas deferens. The vesiculse seminales receive branches from the inferior vesical and middle hsemorrhoidal arteries. The veins and lymphatics correspond. The nerves belong to the sympathetic system, and come from the hypogastric plexus. The semen is a thick whitish fluid, which consists of a liquor seminis, and of certain solid particles. It is the combined product of the testes and accessory generative glands, the former secreting spermatozoa, and little more fluid than is necessary to convey these ; the latter diluting this secretion with additional fluid. The liquor seminis is colourless, transparent, and of an albuminous nature. It con- tains floating in it, besides squamous and columnar epithelium cells, oil-like globules and minute granular matter, seminal granules (Wagner), and the spermatozoa or spermatic filaments.