753 THE INTEENAL EAR. OSSEOUS LABYRTNTH. fossa. The nerve from the carotid plexus is above and in front of this, and passes through the bone directly from the carotid canal. The branch to the great superficial petrosal nerve is lodged in a canal which opens on the inner wall of the tympanum in front of the fenestra ovalis. The small superficial petrosal nerve also enters at the fore part of the cavity beneath the canal for the tensor tympani. Nerves to Muscles.—The tensor tympani muscle obtains its nerve from the otic ganglion (see fig. 410) ; the laxator tympani is said to be supplied by the chorda tympani: and the stapedius is figured by Sommerring as receiving a filament from the facial nerve. The chorda tympani is invested by a tubular reflection of the lining mem- brane of the tympanum; its course across the cavity has already been described (p. 611). THE INTERNAL EAR, OR LABYRINTH. The inner, or sensory part of the organ of hearing, is contained in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It consists of a cavity—the osseous labyrinth—hollowed out of the bone, and of the membranous labyrinth con- tained within the osseous walls. Fig. 507. Fig. 507.—RiOHT Bony Labyrinth, viewed FROM THE Outer Side (after Sommer- ring). Hi The specimen here represented is pre- pared by separating piecemeal the looser substance of the petrous bone from the dense walls which immediately enclose the laby- rinth. 1, the vestibule ; 2, fenestra ovalis ; 3, superior semicircular canal ; 4, horizontal or external canal; 5, posterior canal; *, am- pulla of the semicircular canals ; 6, first turn of the cochlea; 7, second turn ; 8, apex ; 9, fenestra rotunda. The smaller figure in outline below shows the natural The osseous labyrinth is incompletely divided into three parts, named the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea. They are lined throughout by a thin membrane, within which there is a clear fluid named perilymph. The mcmhranous labyrinth is contained within the bony labyrinth, and, being smaller than it, leaves a space between the two, occupied by the peri- lymph just referred to. The membranous structure supports numerous minute ramifications of the auditory nerve, and encloses a fluid named the endolymph. THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. The vestibule forms a central chamber of the labyrinth, which communi- cates in front with the cochlea, behind with the semicircular canals, on the outer side with the cavity of the tympanum, and on the inner side with the meatus auditorius internus. The vestibule is irregularly ovoidal in shape from before backwards, and is slightly flattened or compressed from without 3 D