1070 DISSECTION OF TIIK AP.DOMEN AND PELVIS. lumborum muscle. The quadratus lumborum and iliacns raiiscles are now to be dissected (pp. 255 aud 271). On removing the iliacus from the iliac fossa, the distribution of the ilio-lumbar artery will be traced, and its anastomoses with the last lumbar and the circumflex iliac artery exhibited (p. 429). 8. lJi!isection of the Pel vis.—The pelvis with several of the lumbar verte- brae ought now to be separated from the rest of the trunk, aud before proceeding further, the dissector should carefully remove the superfluous masses of muscle and other soft parts adherent to the outer surface of the bones. Female Genital Organs.—If the subject is a female, the perinreum is first to be dissected. The exact position of the orifice of tlie urethra is to be examined with reference to the passing of the catheter (p. 980). The fat is to be removed from between the ischium and rectum ; and as this is being done the inferior hasmorrhoidal and superficial perineal vessels and nerve will be brought into view (pp. 426 and G70). The sphincter muscles of the rectum and vagina, the levator ani and transversalis muscles, and the obturator fascia will be seen (p. 205). From among the fat on the fore part are to be dissected out the crura of the clitoris and tlie erector muscles embracing them ; and on the side of the vulva the bulbus vestibuli. The glands of Bartholin are to be sought at the back part of the lower end of the vagina, and the duct of each followed to its orifice by the side of the hymen or caruncukc niyrtiformes. Internal to the crus clitoridis tho triangular ligament or subpubic fascia will be found extending from the pubic arch to the vagina (pp. 977 and 200). The bladder ought now to be partially inflated, and the reflections of the peritoneum in the pelvic cavity examined, especially the posterior, lateral, and anterior false ligaments of the bladder, and in the female the broad ligament of the uterus, with the ovary. Fallopian tube, and round ligament (pp. 947 and 985). Let the peritoneum then be reflected from the walls of the pelvis so as to exhibit the lateral and anterior true ligaments of the bladder, and the whole internal aspect of the pelvic fascias (p. 200). In order to have a complete view of thtse fascite, it will be necessary to remove a portion of the OS inuominatum of the right side. This must be done in such a manner as not to interfere with the attachments of the fascite : while, therefore, the anterior and lower part of the bone with the acetabulum is to be removed, the brim of the pelvis and the boundary of its outlet are to be preserved, as well as the sacro-sciatic foramina. With a little care, and preliminary observation of the form of the innominate bone, this may be done by means of a single section with the saw, carried close by the brim of the pelvis, and downwards in such a direction as to remove the greater part of the thick- ness of the ischial tuberosity and pass as near as possible to the sacro- sciatic notches, without breaking into them. By this means the hip-joint may be removed intact ; and should it not have been dissected along with the leg, to which it properly belongs, the dissectors of the abdomen will now have an opportunity of examining it ; and may especially observe the action of the ligamentum teres, by removing the deep pirt of the aceta- bulum, while the capsule of the joint is left intact (p. 151). Returning to the pelvis, the opening in its lateral wall is to be enlarged, if necessary, with the bone nippers, and the obturator internus muscle is to be carefully removed, and the peculiar arrangement of its tendon remarked (p. 269). On the inner aspect of that muscle will be found superiorly the undivided pelvic faFcia, inferiorly the obturator fascia, and between the two