871 BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE LOBULES. the coats of tlie vein, whicli are here very thiu, giving a tesselated appearance, each little polygonal space representing the base of a lobule, and having in its centre a small spot, which is the mouth of the intra- lobular vein. When divided in the direction of a sublobular vein, the attached lobules present a foliated appearance, for that part of their surface which is not in contact with the vein is itself slightly lobulated. Cut in a transverse direction, the lobules present a polyhedral form. The hepatic substance, as exhibited in the arrangement of each lobule, consists of masses of cells and a copious vascular network, closely inter- woven, with the intervention of little other tissue. For the sake of con- venience, the vascular structure of the liver may be considered first. Blood-vessels.—The hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by the union of its capillary vessels into a single independent intralobular Fig. 608. p p h Fig 608.—Capillary Network of the Lobules op the Rabbit's Liver (from Kolliker). t£ 1 The figure is taken from a very successful injection of the hepatic veins made by Harting : it shows nearly the whole of two lobules, and parts of three others : p, portal branches running in the interlobular spaces ; h, hepatic veins penetrating and radiating from the centre of the lobules. vein, as already stated. These minute intralobular veins open at once into the sides of the adjacent sublobular veins. The sublobular veins are of various sizes, and anastomose together. Uniting into larger and larger vessels, they end at length in hepatic venous trunks, which receive no intralobular veins. Lastly, these venous trunks, converging towards the posterior border of the liver, and receiving in their course other small sub- lobular veins, terminate in the vena cava inferior, as already described. In this course the hepatic veins and their successive ramifications are unac- companied by any other vessel. Their coats are extremely thin ; the sub- lobular branches adhere immediately to the lobules, and even the larger trunks have but a very slight areolar investment connecting them to the substance of the liver. Hence the divided ends of these veins are seen upon a section of the liver as simple open orifices, the thin wall of the vein being surrounded closely by the solid substauce of the gland. The vena portee and hepatic artery, which, together with the bihary ducts,