STRUCTURE OF THE URETERS. 943 by the vas deferens, which passes down between the ureter and the bladder. In the female, the ureters run along the sides of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina before reaching the bladder. Having reached the base of the bladder, about two inches apart from one another, the ureters enter its coats, and running obliquely through them for about three-quarters of an inch, open at length upon the inner surface by two narrow and oblique slit-like openings, which are situated, in the male, about an inch and a half behind the prostate, and about the same distance from each other. This oblique passage of the ureter through the vesical walls, while allowing the urine to flow into the bladder, has the effect of preventing its return up the ureter towards the kidne5^ Structure.—The walls of the ureter are pinkish or bluish white in colour. They consist externally of a dense, firm, areolar, and elastic coat, which in quadrupeds decidedly contracts when artificially irritated. According to Huschke, it possesses two layers of longitudinal fibres : Henle finds only an inner longitudinal and an outer circular layer ; while KoUiker, who formerly described the circular and outer longitudinal layers as the only layers found except in immediate proximity to the bladder, now admits the inner longitudinal and circular as the prin- cipal layers, on Henle's authoritj^ and states that the longitudinal fibres external to the circular layer are absent at the upper part of the tube. Fig. 663.—Epithelium from the Pelvis of THE Human Kidney- (from Kolliker). ?f2 A, different kinds of epithelial cells separated ; B, the same iu situ. Internally, the ureter is lined by a thin and smooth mucous membrane^ which presents a few longitudinal folds when the ureter is laid open. It is prolonged above upon the papillfB of the kidney, and below becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the bladder. The epithelium is of the spheroidal or tran- sitional character, stratified, and con- taining, besides rounded cells, others cylindrical and branched (Kolliker and Luschka). Vessels.—The ureter is supplied with blood from small branches of the renal, the spermatic, the internal iliac, and the inferior vesical arteries. The veins end in various neighbouring vessels. The nerves come from the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and hypogastric plexuses. Varieties.—^ometimes there is no funnel-shaped expansion of the ureter at its upper end into a pelvis, but the calyces unite into two or more narrow tubes, which afterwards coalesce to form the ureter. Occasionally, the separation of these two tubes continues lower down than usual, and even reaches as low as the bladder, in which case the ureter is double. In rare cases, a triple ureter has been met with. In instances of long-continued obstruction to the passage of the urine, the ureters occasionally become enormously dilated, and their opening into the bladder becomes direct so as to lose its valvular action.