562 CEREBRO-SPINAL MEMBEANES. that in the floor of the fourth ventricle, contain caudate cells, many of them of the largest size, with long appendages, and deeply coloured with pigment, (Hannover, Rech. Microscop. sur le Syst^me Nerveux. Copenhagen, 1844). The pineal body, like the pituitary body, has already been sufficiently described. The deep connection of some of the cranial nerves with the basal parts of the cere- brum, as Avell as that of others Avith the remaining portions of the encephalon, will be referred to in the description of these nerves. THE MEMBRAISTES OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. The cerebro-spinal axis is protected by three membranes, named also meninges. They are :—1. An external fibrous membrane, named the dura mater, which closely lines the interior of the skull, and forms a loose sheath in the spinal canal ; 2. An internal areolo-vascular tunic, the pia mater, which accurately covers the brain and spinal cord ; and 3. An intermediate serous sac, the arachnoid membrane, which, by its parietal and visceral layers, covers the internal surface of the dura mater on the one hand, and is reflected over the pia mater on the other. THE DUE,A MATER. The dura mater, a very strong dense inelastic fibrous tunic of considerable thickness, is closely lined on its inner surface by the outer portion of the Fig. 384. Fig. 384.—The Cranium opened to show the Falx op the Cerebkum, and Tentorium OP THE Cerebellum, i a, right side of the falx cerebri; al, its anterior narrow part attached to the crista galli; 6, tentorium cerebelli of the right side, united to the base of the falx cerebri from 2 to 3, in the line of the straight sinus, and attached to the superior border of the petrous bone between 3 and 3' ; 6', aperture between the right and left divisions of the tentorium for the isthmus cerebri ; 1, 1, the superior longitudinal sinus ; 2, 2, the inferior ; 3, 3, the lateral sinus ; 3, 3', the superior petrosal sinus ; 3', is close to the anterior clinoid process.