596 THE CRANIAL NERVES. The roots of the fifth nerve, after emerging from the surface of the encephalon, are directed forwards, side by side, to the middle fossa of the skull, through a recess in the dura mater on the summit of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Here the larger root alters in appearance : its dental to the lower jaw, and by the gustatory to the tongue ; a, the submaxillary gland, the submaxillary ganglion placed above it in connection with the gustatory nerve ; 6, the chorda tympani ; 7, the facial nerve issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen. fibres diverge a little, become reticulated, and enter the Gasserian ganglion. The smaller root passes inside and beneath the ganglion, without its nerve- fibres being incorporated in any way with it, and joins outside the skull the lowest of the three trunks which issue from the ganglion. The ganglion of the fifth nerve, or Gasserian ganglion (ganglion semilunare), occupies a depression on the upper part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, near the point, and is somewhat crescentic in form, the convexity being turned forwards. On its inner side the ganglion is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic nerve, and, accord- ing to some anatomists, it furnishes from its back part filaments to the dura mater. From the fore part, or convex border of the Gasserian ganglion, proceed the three large divisions of the nerve. The highest (first or ophthalmic trunk) enters the orbit; the second, the upper maxillary nerve, is continued forwards to the face, below the orbit ; and the third, the lower maxillary nerve, is distributed chiefly to the external ear, the tongue, the lower teeth, and the muscles of mastication. The first two trunks proceed exclusively from the Fig. 404. Fig. 404. — General Plan of the Bran- ches OF THE Fifth Pair (after a sketch by Charles Bell) ^ 1, lesser root of the fifth pair ; 2, greater root passing forwards into the Gasserian gang- lion ; 3, placed on the bone above the ophthal- mic nerve, which is seen dividing into the supraorbital, lachrymal, and nasal branches, the latter connected with the ophthalmic ganglion ; 4, placed on the bone close to the foramen rotun- dum, marks the supe- rior maxillary division, which is connected be- low with the spheno- palatine ganglion, and passes forwards to the infraorbital foramen ; 5, placed on the bone over the foramen ovale, marks the submaxillary nerve, giving off the anterior auricular and muscular branches, and continued by the inferior