652 NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. inclines backwards by the side of the first phalanx of the finger, and after joining the dorsal digital nerve, ends in the integument over the last Fig. 432,—Distribution of the Digital Nerves (from Hirsclifeld and Leveill^). ^ 1, palmar collateral nerve ; 2, its final palmar distribution ; 3, its dorsal or ungual distribution, and between these numbers the network of terminal filaments ; 4, collateral dorsal nerve; 5, uniting twigs passing between the dorsal and palmar digital nerves. Summary.—The median nerve gives cutaneous branches to the palm, and to several fingers. It supplies the pronator muscles, the flexors of the carpus and the long flexors of the fingers (except the ulnar flexor of the carpus, and part of the deep flexor of the fingers), likewise the outer set of the short muscles of the thumb, and two lumbricales. Some similarity will be observed between the course and distribution of the median and ulnar nerves. Neither gives any ofi"set in the arm. Together they supply all the muscles in front of the forearm and in the hand, and together they supply the skin of the palmar surface of the hand, and impart tactile sensibility to all the fingers. MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. The musculo-spiral nerve, the largest offset of the brachial plexus, occupies chiefly the back part of the limb, and supplies nerves to the ex- tensor muscles, as well as to the skin. Arising behind the axillary vessels from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, of which it is the principal continuation and the only one prolonged into the arm, it soon turns backwards into the musculo-spiral groove, and, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, proceeds along that groove, between the humerus and the triceps muscle, to the outer side of the limb. It then pierces the external intermuscular septum, and descends in the interval between the supinator lougus and the brachialis anticus muscle to the level of the outer condyle of the humerus, where it ends by dividing into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. Of these, the radial is altogether a cutaneous nerve, and the posterior interosseous is the muscular nerve of the back of the forearm. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve may be classified according as they arise on the inner side of the humerus, behind that bone, or on the outer side. A. Internal branches :— (a) Muscular branches for the inner and middle heads of the triceps. That for the inner portion of the muscle is long and slender; it lies by the side of the ulnar nerve, and reaches as far as the lower third of the upper arm. One branch, previously noticed by authors, but more particularly described by Krause, is named by him the ulnar collateral branch. It arises opposite the outer border of the latissimus dorsi tendon, and descends within the sheath of the ulnar nerve, through the internal intermuscular septum, and is distributed to the short inferior fibres of the triceps (Reichert and Du Bois Reymond's Archiv. 1864). (6) The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, commonly united in origin with the preceding, winds backwards beneath the intercosto-humeral nerve, and after supplying filaments to the skin, ends about two inches from the olecranon; phalanx. Fig. 432.