765 THE ORGAN OF CORTI. Fig. 522. Fig. 522.—DlAQRAMMATIO OUTLINE 05" A RadIAL SECTION THROUGH THE LaMINA SPIRALIS Membranacea, Organ op Corti, &c. (after Kolliker, Henle, and others). 252 This figure may be regarded as a more enlarged and explanatory view of the part of fig. 518 representing the organ of Corti: SV, part of the scala vestibuli; CO, canalis cochlete ; ST, scala tympani; R, membrane of Reissner, forming the partition between the scala vestibuli and the canalis cochlese ; I so, a. small part of the lamina spii-alis ossea cut in the direction of one of the canals transmitting the cochlear nerves, nc\ p, perios- teum lining the scala tympani ; lis, limbus laminae spiralis, presenting a great thickening of the periosteum, in which over the extremity of the osseous spiral lamina is found the sulcus spiralis ss, and upon the upper surface of which are the toothed projections ; Iv, labium vestibulare ; It, labium tympanicum of the sulcus spiralis ; Iv to Isp, the lamina spiralis membranacea with its contained parts; mt, membrana tectoria passing from the limbus laminae spiralis to the outer wall of the cochlear tube ; mb, membrana basilaris, stretched from the labium tympanicum to the outer wall of the cochlear tube, where it expands in the ligamentum spirale, Isp; the part marked by the letters mb, between two short dotted lines, forms the zona tecta or z. arcuata; the part indicated by m b' and between the adjacent dotted lines is the zona peetinata; C, the organ of Corti; i, the internal rods ; €, the external rods ; these are set by their lower flattened ends on the basilar membrane, and are articulated together at their upper parts, a, the inner overlapping the outer; a nucleus is seen close to the base of each of the rods close on the basilar membrane ; mr, membrana reticularis, stretched to the outer wall of the cochlea, p c ; below mr, the cells of Corti lying obliquely on the outer rods, and between them the cells of Deiters, and between these and the outer wall of the cochlea epithelial cells ; between a and m r, are indicated the perforations through which the b.iir-like terminations of the cells of Corti project: the sulcus spiralis is seen filled with cylindrical and other epithelium. sistency to cartilage. The iDiier rods are more closely set and more numer- ous than the outer, and appear generally to be of a uniform breadth, flattened, and with a nucleiform body placed subjacent to the lower extremity. The outer rods are narrow and cylindrical in their shafts, and expanded at the lower extremity, which has a nucleiform body subjacent to it, as in the case of the inner rods. At their upper ends where they meet together, both sets of rods are thickened, and the parts which are in con- tact (coiiis ariiculaires externes et internes of Corti) have the appearance of quadrilateral plates directed outwards so that those of the inner row lie over those of the outer row, and those of the outer row are bent backwards from the direction in which the rods to which they belong are placed. From the junction line of the rods there extends outwards an extremely delicate network, the lamina reticularis of Kolliker (1. velamentosa, Deiters), which, it may be gathered from different accounts, is mainly constructed of a layer of squamous cells so disposed as to leave at least three rows of large perforations between them, and which are cemented together by a net- work of intervening substance which is sometimes detected when the cells are not. At its inner margin this lamina is united by flat plates to the inner