PEYER'S GLANDS. 847 tissue, spread through the cavity of each capsule among its semifluid coutents, and are disposed principally in lines converging to the centre. In some subjects these small capsules are found almost empty, and then they are Fig. 591 B. Fig. 591 B.—Enlarged View op a PART OF A Patch of Peyer's Glands (from Boehm). 22 The shaded part of the figure shows the surface of the intestinal mucous membrane in the vicinity of the patch occupied by villi, and between them the orifices of the crypts of Lieberkiihn ; the lighter part of the figure, in which about a dozen of Peyer's vesicles may be seen, is also beset with villi, and in this pait the crypts of Lieberkiihn are arranged chiefly in circles round the vesicles. diflScult of detection. They are usually entirely closed ; but the elder Krause observed that in the pig they were occasionally open, and a similar observation was made by Allen Thomson, not only in the pig, but in the human intestine also. The lacteal plexuses, wliich are abundant in the whole extent of the in- intestine, are especially rich and composed of wide vessels, where they Fig. 592. Fig. 592.—Transverse Sec- tion OF Injected Peyer's Glands (from Kblliker). 30 The drawing was taken from a preparation made by Frey : it represents the fine capillary network spreading from the surrounding blood- vessels into the interior of three Peyer's capsules from the intestine of the rabbit. surround the closed fol- licles, so closely indeed that these may be said to be imbedded in them ; but the lacteals do not penetrate the capsules as the cajjillary blood-ves- sels do. It was formerly pre- sumed without question that Peyer's and the other closed follicles in the alimentary tract constituted a peculiar capsular form of secreting glands ; but since the discovery of capillaries in their interior, and of the rich supply of absorbents around them, it has been supposed that they might be more immediately connected with the lymphatic system. This, however, is by no means proved; for, although the interior of the capsules can no longer be compared with the cavities of