928 THE KIDNEYS. Fig. 649. Fig. 649.—Plan op a Longitudinal Sec- glandular masses have been found, the supernumerary organ being placed either in front or on one side of the vertebral column, or in the pelvic cavity. Structure.—The kidney is surrounded by a proper fibrous coat, which forms a thin, smooth, but firm investment, closely covering the organ. It consists of dense fibro-areolar tissue, together with numerous fine elastic fibres, and can easily be torn oft' from the substance of the gland, to which it adheres by minute processes of connective tissue and vessels. On splitting open the kidney by a longitudinal section, from its outer to its inner border, the fissure named the liilns is found to extend some dis- tance into the interior of the organ, forming a cavity called the sinus of the kidney, into the bottom of which the fibrous coat is prolonged. In such a section also the commencement of the excretory duct and the disposition of the substance of the organ are seen to the greatest advantage. The ureter^ or excretory duct of the gland, which is dilated at its upper end as it approaches the hilus, is seen to expand within the sinus into a funnel-shape(i cavity, compressed from before backwards, named the pelvis of the kidney. Within the sinus, partly concealed by the vessels, the pelvis divides usually into three, or sometimes only two, principal tubes, which subdivide into several smaller tubes named the calyces or infundihula. These calyces, which vary in number from seven to thirteen or more, form short funnel-shaped tubes, into each of which a jpainlla of the renal sub- stance projects. A single calyx often surrounds two, sometimes even three papillee, which are in that case united together : hence, the calyces are in general not so numerous as the papillae. The spaces between the calyces are occupied by a considerable amount of fat, imbedded in which are seen the main branches of the renal vessels. tion THROUGH THE PeLVIS AND SUBSIANCE OF THE Right Kidney. \ a, the cortical substance ; h, b, broad part of two of the pyramids of Malpighi ; c, c, the divisions of the pelvis named calyces, or infundibula, laid open ; c', one of these un- opened ; d, summit of the pyramids or pa- pillae projecting into calyces ; e, e, section of the narrow part of two pyramids near the calyces ; p, pelvis or enlarged divisions of tlie ureter within the kidney ; u, the ureter ; s, the sinus ; h, the hilus. Like the rest of the ureter, the pelvis and greater pait of the calyces consist of three coats, viz., a strong external fibro-areolar and elastic tunic, which becomes continuous round the bases of the papillae with that part of the proper coat of the kidney which is continued into the sinus ; secondly, a thin internal mucous ccat, which is reflected over the summit of each papilla ; and thirdly, between these two, a double layer of muscular fibres, longitudinal and circular. The longitudinal fibres aie lost near the base of the calyx, but the circular fibres, according to Henle, form a continuous