737 DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS CHAMBER. The aqueous humour fills the space in the fore part of the eyeball, be- tween the cornea and the capsule of the lens with its suspensory ligament. The iris, resting in part upon the lens, divides the aqueous chamber partially into two. The aqueous humour dififers little from water in its physical characters ; but it contains a small quantity of some solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium, dissolved in it. The chambers, into which the space containing the aqueous humour is divided by the iris, are named respectively the anterior and posterior. This subdivision is incomplete in the adult, but in the foetus before the seventh month it is completed by means of the membrana pupillaris, which by its union with the margin of the pupil closes the aperture of communication between the two chambers. The anterior cliamber is limited in front by the cornea and behind by the iris, while opposite the pupil it is bounded by the capsule of the lens. The 'posterior chamber was originally so named in the belief that a free space intervened between the iris and the capsule of the lens. It is now, however, well ascertained by observations on the living eye, and by sections made in the frozen state, that the pupillary margin and part of the posterior surface of the iris are in contact with the capsule of the lens ; and the term posterior chamber can therefore be employed only to indicate the want of continuity between those opposed structures, where no space actually inter- venes, and to the angular interval existing at the circumference between the ciliary processes, the iris, and the suspensory ligament. DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. The eyes begin to be developed at a very early period, in the form of two hollow processes projecting one from each side of the first primary cerebral vesicle. Each process becomes converted into a flask-shaped vesicle, called the primary optic vesicle, which communicates by a hollow pedicle with the base of the posterior division of the first primary cerebral vesicle. (See p. 578, and fig. 386 B.) According to the obser- vations of Eemak on the chick, the pedicles, originally separate, come together, and their cavities temporarily communicate,—a condition which may explain the forma- tion of the optic commissure. The primary optic vesicle comes in contact at its extremity with the cuticle, which somewhat later becomes invaginated at this point, and forms a small pouch pressing inwards on the optic vesicle; the aperture of this Fig. 490.—Longitudinal Section OF THE Primary Optic Yesiolk IN THE Chick magnified (from liemak). A, from an embryo of sixty-five hours ; B, a few hours later ; C, o\ the fourth day ; c, the corneous layer or epidermis, presenting in A, the open depression for the lens, which is closed in B and C ; I, the lens follicle and lens ; pr, the primary optic vesicle; in A and Jb, the pedicle is shown ; in G, the section being to the side of the pedicle, the latter is not shown ocular vesicle and vitreous humour. pouch becomes constricted and closed, and the pouch is soon converted into a shut sac, within which the contents subsequently becoming solid form the lens and its capsule. After the lens has been separated from the cuticle, the deeper tissue sends a ^ 3 0 the secondary