505 FORM AND POSITION OF THE COED. The lower or lumbar enlargement is situated nearly opposite the last dorsal vertebra ; its antero-posterior diameter is nearly equal to the transverse. Below this enlargement, the cord tapers in the form of a cone, from the apex of which Fig. 342. the small filiform prolongation is continued downwards for some distance within the sheath. Fig. 342.—Lower Part op the Spinal Corb with THE Cauda Equina and Sheath, seen from be- hind. 4 The sheath has been opened from behind and stretched towards the sides ; on the left side all the roots of the nerves are entire ; on the right side both roots of the first and second lumbar nerves are entire, while the rest have been divided close to the place of their passage through the sheath. The bones of the coccyx are sketched in their natural relative position to show the place of the filum terminale and the lowest nerves. a, placed on the posterior median fissure at the middle of the lumbar enlargement of the cord; 5, &, the terminal filament, drawn slightly aside by a hook at its middle, and descending within the dura-matral sheath; 6', its prolongation beyond the sheath and upon the back of the coccygeal bones; c, the dura-matral sheath; double foramina for the separate passage of the anterior and posterior roots of each of the nerves; c, pointed ends of several pro- cesses of the ligamentum denticulatum; Dx, and Dxii, the tenth and twelfth dorsal nerves ; Li, and Lv, the first and fifth lumbar nerves ; Si, and Sv, the first and fifth sacral nerves ; Ci, the coccygeal nerve. The cervical and lumbar enlargements have an evident relation to the large size of the nerves which supply the upper and lower limbs, and which are connected with those regions of the cord,—in accordance with the general fact observed in the animal kingdom, that near the origin of large nerves, the central nervous substance is accumulated in larger proportion. At the commencement of its development in the embryo, the spinal cord is des- titute of these enlargements, which, in their first appearance and subsequent progress, correspond with the growth of the limbs. Sometimes the cord presents one or two bulbs or swellings towards its lower end. A ccording to Foville, the lumbar enlargement is chiefly due to an increase in bulk of the anterior region of the cord. (Traits compl. de I'Anat., &c., du Syst, JSTerv. Cerebro-Spinal. Paris, 1844. Part I., p. 138.) Li Si( Dxir \\Sv The terminal filament (filum terminale, cen- tral ligament) descends in the middle line ^ amongst the nerves composing the cauda equina, and, becoming blended with the lower end of the sheath opposite to the first or second sacral vertebra, passes on to be fixed to the lower end of