PRIMITIVE CEREBEO-SPINAL CANAL. 573 DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. The cerebro spinal axis is formed from a superficial deposit of blastema, which occupies the whole width of the dorsal furrow, that elongated depression whose margins come together to complete the walls of the cranio-vertebral cavity (p. 15). This layer of blastema increases in thickness in each lateral half, while in Fig. Fig. 386.—Primitive form op the Cerebro-Spinal Axis in the Em- bryo of the Bied. Magnified. A and B (from Reichert) outlines of the dorsal aspect of the embryo bird at twenty-four and thirty-six hours of in- cubation. In A, the sides of the pri- mitive groove have united to a great extent and converted it into a canal, dilated at the cephalic extremity, 2 ; 6, the cephalic fold of the germinal membrane ; 8, the primordial vertebral masses ; 9, the unclosed lumbar part of the vertebral groove. In B, 10, 11, and 12 indicate the partial division of the cephalic portion of the tube into the three primary vesicles ; 13, the rudi- ment of the eye ; 14, that of the ear. C, represents a transverse section of the body of the embryo previous to the closure of the vertebral groove. 1, chorda dorsalis ; 2, primitive vertebral groove ; 2 to 3, medullary plates con- tinuous at 3, with 4, the corneous layer of the blastoderm ; 5, the ventral plates of the middle layer; 6, the lowest or epi- thelial layer; 7, the primordial vertebral Fig. 387. Fig. 387.—Transverse Section op the Cervical Part of the Spinal Cord op a Human Embryo op • Six Weeks (from Kolliker). This and the following figure are only sketched, the white matter and a part of the grey not being shaded in. c, central canal ; e, its epithelial lining ; at e (inferiorly), the part which becomes the anterior com- missure ; at e' (superiorly) the part which becomes the posterior commissure ; a, the white substance of the anterior columns, beginning to be separated from the grey matter of the interior, and extending round into the lateral column, where it is crossed by the line from g, which points to the grey substance ; p, posterior column ; a r, anterior roots ; p r, posterior roots. the middle line—the primitive groove—it remains thin and depressed. The thin middle portion is that which forms in the spinal cord the anterior commissure. At the same time that the walls of the cranio-vertebral cavity are completed behind, the lateral margins of the cerebro-spinal axis are also bent backwards and meet together, so as to form a tube, and this line of junction is the rudiment, in the spinal cord, of the posterior commissure, while the space within the cylinder is the central canal. The closure of the canal first takes place in the cervical region, and subsequently proceeds thence backwards in the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions.