FEMORAL ARCH AND RING, 1033 The anterior or iliac part of the fascia lata being turned aside, the sheath of the femoral vessels will be in view. The sheath is divided by septa, so that each vessel is lodged in a separate compartment, and the vein is sepa- rated by a thin partition from the artery on one side and from the short canal for the lymphatics on the other side. Along the thigh the sheath is filled by the artery and vein, but behind the femoral arch it is widened at the inner side. Here it is perforated for lymphatic vessels, and on this account is said to be "cribriform."* This inner wider part of the sheath receives the femoral hernia ; and in connection with the anatomical de- scription of that disease it is designated the femoral canal. At its upper end the sheath of the vessels is continuous with the lining membrane of the abdomen—with the fascia transversalis at its fore part, and with the fascia iliaca behind. When the femoral arch is being removed it will be found that a bundle of fibres springing from its under surface outside the femoral vessels, extends across the fore part of the femoral sheath, and, widening at its iimer end, is fixed to the pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament. This fibrous band is known as the deep femoral arch. Connected with the same part of the bone is the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transverse muscles ; the tendon lies before the attachment of the deep femoral arch. In many cases the last-named structure is not strongly marked ; and it may be found to blend with the tendon of the muscles just referred to. Not unfrequently it is altogether wanting. Attention may now be directed to the internal surface of the abdomen. When the peritoneum has been removed, it will be observed that the fasciae lining the cavity form for the most part a barrier against the occurrence of hernia ; for outside the iliac vessels the fascia iliaca and fascia transversalis are continuous with one another behind the femoral arch. These fasciae are, in fact, but parts of the same membrane, to which difi'erent names are assigned for the convenience of description, just as distinctive names are applied to portions of the same artery. But where the iliac artery and vein occur, the arrangement of the fasciae is difi'erent. The vessels rest upon the fascia iliaca ; and the membranes, instead of joining at an angle as elsewhere, are continued into the sheath of the vessels in the manner above described, f The sheath is closely applied to the artery and vein, so that in the natural or healthy state of the parts there is no space left for the formation of a hernia in the compartments which belong to those vessels ; but ac the inner side of the blood-vessels will be found a depression which is occupied but partly with the lymphatics. This is the femoral ring, the orifice of the femoral canal. Femoral ring.—After the removal of the peritoneum, this opening is not at first distinctly discernible, being covered with the laminated membrane (subserous) which intervenes between the peritoneum and the walls of the abdomen. That part of the membrane which covers the ring was found by * The word "cribriform" being applied to this part as well as to the layer of the superficial fascia stretched across the saphenous opening, the two structures are dis- tinguished in the following manner :—the former is known as the cribrifoi m portion of the sheath of the vessels, while to the latter is assigned the name of cribriform fascia. + Some anatomists describe the sheath of the vessels as continued down from the membranes in the abdomen, while others regard it as an emanation from the fascia of the thigh, but continuous with the abdominal fasciae. As this difference in the manner of viewing the structure in question does not alter the facts in any way, it is quite immaterial which of the modes of description is adopted.