1050 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. the corims callosum near the forepart, and raising it carefully, divide with scissors the septum lucidnm vhich separates the lateral ventricles, and notice between its layers the fifth ventricle. The lateral ventricles having been thus thrown into one, the structures forming their lloor are more fully seen, viz., the corpora striata, toenise scmicirculares, the optic thalami in part, the choroid plexus, the upper surface of the fornix, the foramen of ]\Ionro, the anterior and posterior cornua, and the hippocampus minor. The descending cornu is now to be exposed, on one side only, by cutting away the cerebral substance above and external to it, and in it will be found the hippocampus major, pes hippocampi, taenia hippocampi, and fascia dentata. The fornix is to be divided immediately above the foramen of Monro, and reflected ; by which means its inferior surface will be brought into view, as also the upper surface of the velum interpositum. The connections of the anterior extremity of the velum may then be cut across, and that structure likewise turned back so as to lay bare the third ventricle ; but iu doing this care should be taken lest the pineal body, which is adherent to the under surface of the velum interpositum near its back part, should be raised out of its place. The objects seen in and near the third ventricle, are now to be studied : viz., the optic thalami, the three smaller commis- sures, viz., anteiior, middle and posterior, the pineal body and its crura, the corpora quadrigemina, and the anterior opening of the iter a tertio ad quartum ventricu^um ; also the anterior crura of the fornix should be traced down as far as possible towards the corpora albicantia. The velum having been replaced, the transverse fissure of the cerebrum ought now to be opened by division of the remains of the corpus callosum and fornix in the middle line, and it may be followed in its whole extent to the extremity of the descending cornu. By this proceeding the veins of Galen will be traced back through the velum interpositum to the margin of the tentorium, and, on division of the velum, the valve of Vieussens and the origin of the fourth nerve, as well as that of the optic tract, may be seen ; but if the view of these objects should not be satisfactory, they may be again examined after removal of the brain from the skull. The remaining part of the brain is to be removed by cutting the tento- rium on each side sufhciently to allow the cerebellum to be raised, and dividing the spinal cord and vertebral arteries as low as possible, the spinal accessory and suboccipital nerves, and the cranial nerves in order from be- hind forward, with the infundibulum and internal carotid arteries ; after which the brain is to be laid on a flat plate with the base uppermost. If, however, it has been decided to remove the brain entire from the body, this may either be done in the manner now described, or, with the subject temporarily placed for the purpose on its back. According to the latter mode of procedure, which is the most customary, the anterior lobes of the brain are gently raised, and the olfactory bulbs lifted from the surface of the ethmoid bone ; the optic nerves, internal carotid arteries, the infundi- bulum, and the third pair of nerves are successively divided ; the anterior attachment of the tentorium is then to be cut on each side so as to secure the divisions of the fourth pair of nerves before they have any chance of being torn. The tentorium is then to be more extensively divided, and after it, in their order, the remaining nerves, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal cord. In studying the base of the brain, the distribution of the arteries should be first observed, with their union in the circle of Willis (p. 363). After they are removed, and the less adherent portions of the