Branch op the Glosso-Phartn- Fig. 415.—Sketch of the Tympanic Fig. 415. pani muscle ; 11, facial nerve ; 12, GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. 617 pathetic, or vice verm, and a third to the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve. The last is not constant. There is sometimes likewise a filament from the digastric branch of the facial nerve, which, piercing the digastric muscle, joins the glosso-pharyngeal nerve below the petrous ganglion. The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson)^ arises from the petrous ganglion, and is conducted to the tympanum by a special canal, the orifice of which is in the ridge of bone between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen. On the inner wall of the tympanum the nerve joins with a twig from the sympathetic in a plexus (tym- panic), and distributes filaments to the membrane lining the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, as well as one to the fenestra rotunda, and another to the fenestra ovalis. ^ GEAL Nerve, and its Connections (from Breschet). A, squamous part of the left tem- poral bone ; B, petrous part; C, in- ferior maxillary nerve; D, internal carotid artery ; a, tensor tympani muscle; 1, carotid plexus; 2, otic ganglion ; 3, glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 4, tympanic nerve; 5, twigs to the carotid plexus ; 6, twig to fenestra rotunda; 7, twig to fenestra ovalis ; 8, junction with the large superficial petrosal nerve; 9, small superficial petrosal; 10, twig to the tensor tym- chorda tympani; 13, petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; 14, twig to the membrane of the Eustachian tube. From the tympanic nerve are given three connecting branches^ by which it communicates with other nerves; and which occupy channels given off from the osseous canal through which the nerve enters the tympanum. One branch enters the carotid canal and joins with the sympathetic on the carotid artery. A second is united to the large superficial petrosal nerve, as this lies in the hiatus Fallopii. And the third is directed upwards, beneath the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, towards the surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it becomes the small petrosal nerve ; and under this name it is continued to the exterior of the skull through a small aperture in the sphenoid and temporal bones, to end in the otic ganglion. As this petrosal nerve passes the gangliform enlargement of the facial, it has a connecting filament with that enlargement, which is by some considered its principal posterior termination. Jacobson described an anterior or internal branch from the tympanic nerve to the spheno-palatine ganglion. BRANCHES DISTRIBUTBD IN THE NECK. The carotid branches course along the internal carotid artery, and unite with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric, and with branches of the sympathetic. The pharyngeal branches, three or four in number, unite opposite the middle con- strictor of the pharynx with branches of the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic to form the pharyngeal plexus. Nerves to the mucous membrane of the pharynx perforate the muscles, and extend upwards to the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, and downwaxda nearly to the hyoid bone.