THE LARYNX. 910 the cricoid cartilage, above with the cornicula, and in front, by means of fibres contained within the true and false vocal cords, with the thyroid cartilage. The crico-arytenoid articulations are surrounded by a series of thin capsu- lar fibres, which, together with a loose synovial membrane, serve to connect the convex elliptical articular surfaces on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage with the concave articular depressions on the bases of the arytenoid cartilages. There is, moreover, a strong posterior crico-arytenoid ligament on each side, arising from the cricoid, and inserted into the inner and back part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The summits of the arytenoid cartilages and the cornicula iaryngis have usually a fibrous and synovial capsule to connect them, but it is frequently indistinct. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments consist of a few slight fibrous fcxsci- culi, contained within the folds of mucous membrane forming the false vocal cords hereafter to be described, and are fixed in front to the depression betAveen the alie of the thyroid cartilage, somewhat above its middle, and close to the attachment of the epiglottis : behind they are connected to the tubercles on the rough anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages. They are continuous above with scattered fibrous bundles contained in the aryteno- epiglottideau folds. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, placed within the lips of the glottis, and forming the true vocal cords, are two bands of elastic tissue which are attached in front to about the middle of the depression between the alae of the thyroid cartilage, below the superior cords ;• and are inserted behind into the elongated anterior processes of the base of the arytenoid car- tilages. These bands are of considerable strength, and consist of closely- arranged parallel fibres. They are continuous below with the thu] lateral portions of the crico-thyroid membrane. Interior of the larynx.—The cavity of the larynx is divided into an upper and a lower compartment by the comparatively narrow aperture of the glottis, or rima glottidis, the margins of which constitute in their two anterior thirds the lower or true' vocal cords; and the whole laryngeal cavity, viewed in transverse section, thus presents the appearance of an hour-glass, or of two funnels meeting together by their narrower ends. The upper compartment communicates with the pharynx by the superior aperture of the larynx, and contains immediately above the rima glottidis the ventricles and the upper or false vocal cords. The lower compartment passes inferiorly into the tube of the windpipe without any marked con- striction or limitation between them (Fig. 638). The superior aperture of the larynx, by which it communicates with the pharynx, is a triangular opening, wide in front and narrow behind, the lateral margins of which slope obliquely downwards and backwards. It is bounded in front by the epiglottis, behind by the summits of the arytenoid cartilages and cornicula Iaryngis with the angular border of mucous mem- brane crossing the median space between them, and on the sides by two folds of mucous membrane named the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, which, enclosing a few ligamentous and muscular fibres, pass forwards from the tips of the arytenoid cartilages and cornicula to the lateral margins of the epiglottis (Fig. G37). In studying the form of the laryngeal cavity and its apertures, it is proper to become acquainted with the appearances which they present on examination during life by means of the laryngoscope, and with the relations