750 THE EAR. end of the Eustachian tube and the adjoining surface of the sphenoid bone, and from the sides of the upper compartment of the Eustachian orifice. In T^. cr.. Fig. 604.—View of the Cavity OF THE KiGHT TyaIPANUM FROM ABOVE. The cavity of the tympanum and some parts of the labyrinth have been exposed by a horizontal section removing the upper part of the temporal bone. 1, posterior semicircular canal opened ; 2, the cavity of the cochlea opened ; 3, osseous part of the Eustachian tube ; 4, head of the malleus ; 5, incus ; 6, stapes, with its base set in the fenestra ovalis ; 7, tensor tympani muscle ; 8, stapedius. this canal the muscle is con- ducted nearly horizontally backwards to the cavity of the tympanum. Immediately in front of the fenestra ovalis the tendon of the muscle bends at nearly a right angle over the end of the processus cochleariformis as through a pulley, and, contained in a fibrous sheath, passes out- wards to be inserted into the inner part of the handle of the malleus, near its root. The laxator tympani (laxator tympani major of Sommerring) is generally believed to be distinctly muscular, but being partly concealed by a band of fibrous tissue, doubts are still entertained by some observers as to whether the structure kuown under this name is of a muscular or ligamentous nature. Arising from the spinous j)rocess of the sphenoid bone, and slightly from the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, it is directed backwards, passes through the Glasserian fissure, and is inserted into the neck of the malleus, just above the root of the processus gracilis. The laxator tympani minor of Sommerring {posterior ligament of the malleus, Lincke) is made up of reddish fibres, which are fixed at one end to the upper and back part of the external auditory meatus, pass forwards and inwards between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani, and are inserted into the outer border of the handle of the malleus, and the short process near it. Sommerring. Icoiies Organi Auditus Humani, 1801. The stapedius is a very distinct muscle, but is hid within the bone, being lodged in the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and in the hollow of the pyramid. The tendon issues from the aperture at the apex of that little elevation, and passing forwards, surrounded by a fibrous sheath, is inserted into the neck of the stapes posteriorly, close to the articulation of that bone with the lenticular process of the incus. A very slender spine of bone has been found occasionally in the tendon of the stapedius in man : and a similar piece of bone, though of a rounder shape, exists con-