MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 917 attached to the upper part of the arytenoid cartilage. This is named by Soemmerring the small thyro-arytenoid, whilst the two other portions of the muscle constitute the great thyro-arytenoid of that author. Arytenoid and aryteno-epiglottidean muscles.—When the mucous mem- brane is removed from the back of the arytenoid cartilages', a thick band of transverse fibres constituting the arytenoid muscle is laid bare, and on the surface of this are seen two slender decussating oblique bundles, formerly described as portions of the arytenoid muscle (arytsenoideus obliquus), but now more generally considered as parts of the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles, with which they are more closely associated both in the disposition of their fibres and in their action. The arytenoid muscle passes straight across, and its fibres are attached to the whole extent of the concave surface on the back of each arytenoid cartilage. The aryteno-epiglottidean muscles arising near the inferior and outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages, decussate one with the other, and their fibres are partly attached to the upper and outer part of the opposite cartilage, partly pass forwards in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and partly join the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. A few fibres associated with the anterior and upper part of the thyro- arytenoid muscle have been described as constituting a thyro-epiglottidean muscle. Fig, 643.—Outline or the Right Half OF the Cartilages op the Larynx as SEEN prom the InSIDB, WITH THM THYRO- ARYTENOID Ligament, to illustrate THE Action op the Crico-Thyroid Muscle. t, cut surface of the thyroid cartilage in the middle anteriorly ; c, c, the same of the cricoid cartilage before and behind ; a, the inner surface of the right arytenoid carti- lage ; a', its anterior process ; s, the right cartilage of Santorini; cv, the thyro-ary- tenoid ligament ; the position of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage on the out- side of the cricoid is indicated by a dotted outline, and r indicates the point or axis of rotation of the one cartilage on the other ; cih, indicates a line in the principal direc- tion of action of the crico-thyroid muscle ; cap, the same of the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle ; the dotted line, of which t' indicates a part, represents the position into which the thyroid cartilage is moved by the action of the crico-thyroid muscle ; if the arytenoid cartilages are fixed by muscles acting in the direction of cap, the vocal ligaments will be elongated and rendered tense, by contraction of the crico- thyroid muscles, as indicated by cv'. Fig. 643. Actions of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx.—The crico-thyroid muscles produce the rotation forwards and downwards of the thyroid cartilage on the cricoid, which is permitted by the crico-thyroid articulations. In this movement the arytenoid carti- lages, being attached to the cricoid cartilage at a level considerably above the axis of rotation, have their distance from the fore part of the thyroid cartilage increased, and therefore, the crico-thyroid muscles increase the tension of the vocal cords. The thyro-arytenoid muscles are, in their lower parts, the opponents of the crico-thyroid, raising the fore part of the thyroid cartilage and decreasing the tension of the vocal