570 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF THE BRAIN". as the third year; the Wenzels and Sir W. Hamilton fixed the period about the seventh, and Tiedemann between the seventh and eighth years. Gall and Spurzheim were of opinion that the brain continued to grow until the fortieth year. The observations of Sims, Tiedemann and Eeid appear to show that in both sexes the weight of the brain in general increases rapidly up to the seventh year, then more slowly to between sixteen and twenty, and again more slowly to between thirty-one and forty, at which time it reaches its maximum point. Beyond that period, there appears a slow, but progressive diminution in weight of about 1 oz. during each subsequent decennial period; thus confirming the opinion, that the brain diminishes in advanced life. According to Peacock, the maximum weight of the brain is attained between the ages of twenty and thirty years. The table of Boyd inserted above would appear to show a somewhat earlier period as that at which the maximum is reached in both sexes, and that the period of decline scarcely begins before sixty years. With this result the observations of Huschke, made upon the brains of 359 men and 245 women, in general agree. {" Schadel, Hirn und Seele des Menschen und der Thiere, &c.," 1854.) All other circumstances being alike, the size of the brain appears to bear a general relation to the mental power of the individual,—although many instances occur in which this rule is not applicable. The brain of Cuvier weighed upwards of 64 oz., and there are other recorded examples of brains belonging to men of great talent which nearly equalled it in weight. (Emille Rousseau, " Maladie et autopsie de M. G. Cuvier," Lancette Frangaise, Mai 26, 1832.) On the other hand, the brain in idiots is remark- ably small. In three idiots, whose ages were sixteen, forty, and fifty years, Tiedemann found the weight of their respective brains to be 19| oz., 25| oz., and 22| oz.; and Dr. Sims records the case of a female idiot twelve years old, whose brain weighed 27 oz. Allen Thomson has found the brain of a dwarfish idiot girl seventeen years of age to weigh I85 oz. after preservation in alcohol. The human brain is found to be absolutely heavier than that of all the lower animals except the elephant and whale. The brain of the elephant, according to Perrault, Moulins, and Sir A. Cooper, weighs between 8 and 10 lbs.; whilst that of the whale was found by Rudolphi, in a specimen 75 feet long, to weigh upwards of 5 lbs. The relative weight of the encephalon to the body is liable to great variation; nevertheless, the facts to be gathered from the tables of Clendinning, Tiedemann, and Reid, furnish this interesting general result:—In a series of 81 males, the average proportion between the weight of the brain and that of the body, at the ages of twenty years and upwards, was found to be as 1 to 36-5 ; and in a series of 82 females, to be as 1 to 36*46. In these cases, the deaths were the result of more or less prolonged disease; but in 6 previously healthy males, who died suddenly from disease or accident, the average proportion was 1 to 40'8. The proportionate weight of the brain to that of the body is much greater at birth than at any other period of life, being, according to Tiedemann, about 1 to 5'85 in the male, and about 1 to 6*5 in the female. From the observations already referred to, it further appears that the proportion diminishes gradually up to the tenth year, being then about 1 to 14. From the tenth to the twentieth year, the relative increase of the body is most striking, the ratio of the two being at the end of that period about 1 to 30. After the twentieth year, the general average of 1 to 36.5 prevails, with a further trifling decrease in advanced life. Yiewed in relation to the weight of his body, the brain of man may be stated generally to be heavier than the brains of the lower animals; but there are some exceptions to the rule, as in the case of certain species of small birds, in the smaller apes, and in some small rodent animals. The attempts hitherto made to measure or estimate the relative proportions of the different convoluted parts of the cerebrum to each other and to the degree of intelli- gence, either more directly or by the cranioscopic methods, have as yet been attended with little success. The more recent researches of Rudolph Wagner, which have been farther prosecuted by his son, hold out some promise when fully carried out to afford more definite results. These researches had for their object to institute an accurate comparison between the brains of certain persons of known intelligence, cultivation, and mental power, and those of persons of an ordinary or lower grade. As examples of brains of men of