94G THE URINARY BLADDER. where it becomes blended with the dense fibrous tissue found in that situa- tion. The urachus, which forms in the early fa3tal state a tubular com- munication between the urinary bladder and the allantoid vesicle, preserves, according to Luschka, vestiges of its original condition in the form of a long interrupted cavity, with irregularities and dilatations, lined with epi- thelium similar to that of the bladder, and sometimes communicating by a fine opening with the vesical cavity (Virchow's Archiv., 18G2, and Anat. d. Mensch., vol. ii., p. 229). The sides of the bladder, when it is distended, are rounded and prominent, and are each of them crossed obliquely by the cord of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery, which is connected posteriorly with the superior vesical artery, and runs forwards and upwards to the umbilicus, approaching the urachus above the summit of the bladder. Behind and above this cord the side of the bladder is covered with the peritoneum, but below and in front of it the peritoneum does not reach the bladder, which is here con- nected to the sides of the pelvic cavity by loose areolar tissue containing fat, and, near its anterior and lower part, by the broad expansion from the recto-vesical fascia, forming the lateral true ligament. The vas deferens crosses obliquely the lower part of this lateral surface, from before backwards and downwards, and turniijg over the obliterated hypogastric artery, de- scends upon the inner side of the ureter, along the posterior surface, to the base of the bladder. 'P'ic^. 665. Fig. 665.—Base op ttte Male Bladder with the Vesicul^e Seminales, Vasa Dkfeiientia AND Pkostate exposed (from Haller). ^ a, line of reflection of the peri- toneum in the recto-vesical pouch ; b, the part above tliis from which the peritoneum has been removed, exposing tlie hingitudinal mus- ' cular fibres ; left vas deferens ' ending in c, the left ejaculatory duct; s, left vesicula seminalis joining the same duct; the right / vas deferens, and the right vesi- cula seminalis, marked s, s, un- ravelled, are also shown ; p, under side of the prostate gland ; m, small part of the mem- branous portion of the urethra; u, v., the uretei's, of which the •right is turned to the side. The base or ftindns (in- ferior fundus) is the widest part of the bladder. It is directed backwards as well as downwards, and difi'ers according to the sex in its relations to other parts. In the male it rests upon the second portion of the rectum, and is covered posteriorly for a short space by the peritoneum, which, however, is immediately reflected from thence upon the rectum, so as to form the recto-vesical pouch. In front of the line of reflection of the serous membrane, the base of the bladder is destitute of peritoneum, and adherent to the rectum by dense fibro-areolar tissue