736 THE EYE. In the adult, the anterior surface of the lens becomes more obviously less convex than the posterior ; and the substance of the lens is firmer, colour- less, and transparent. 0 Fig. 488. Fig. 488.—Side Views op the Lens at Different Ages. 1^ C a, at birth with the deepest convexity ; 6, in adult life with medium convexity; c, in old age with considerable ^> flattening of the curvatures. W W In old age, it is more flattened on both sur- faces ; it assumes a yellowish or amber tinge, and is apt to lose its transparency as it gradually increases in toughness and specific gravity. SUSPENSORY LIGAMENT OF THE LENS AND CANAL OF PETIT. The suspensory ligament of the lens—Retzius—(Zonula of Zinn) is a slender but tolerably firm transparent membrane, which, attached to the fore part of the capsule of the lens close to its circumference, passes out- wards to join the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour at its most anterior convex part, opposite the ora serrata of the retina, and assists in retaining the lens in its place. On the anterior surface small streaks of pigment are observable after its separation from the other membranes, and when this pigment is removed by washing, small but regular folds—processus ciliares zonulas—come into view near the lens ; these are plaits in the membrane, and are received into the intervals between the ciliary processes of the choroid coat, into which they fit. Between the folds and the lensr capsule is a slight interval free from plaits, which forms part of the boundary of the posterior aqueous chamber. The posterior surface is turned towards the hyaloid membrane, from which it is separated near the lens by a space named the canal of Petit. : The suspensory ligament has chemical properties similar to those of the capsule of the lens, but in it parallel or slightly radiating longitudinal fibres may be recognised, which are stifi", elastic, and pale, resembling those of elastic tissue, being less pliable and less acted on by acetic acid than those Fig. 489.—View from before op the Canal of Petit inflated (from Sappey). The anterior parts of the sclerotic, choroid, iris and cornea having been removed, the remaining parts are viewed from before, and the canal of Petit has been inflated with air through an artificial opening. 1, front of the lens; 2, vitreous body ; 3, outer border of the canal of Petit; 4, outer part of the Zonule of Zinn; 5, appearance . of sacculated dilatations of the canal of Petit. The canal of Fetit is the interval surrounding the edge of the lens-capsule, bounded in front by the suspensory liga- ment, and behind by the hyaloid membrane. Its width is about y^^th of an inch. On blowing air into it through an opening in the anterior boundary, the plaits of the suspensory ligament on its front are distended, and the canal presents a sacculated appearance. of connective tissue. Fig. 489. 1