THE MEMBRANOUS LABYEINTH. 151 separated from the tympanum by the secondary membrana tympani. Near its commencement is the orifice of a small canal, aguedudus cochlew, which extends downwards and inwards through the substance of the petrous part of the temporal bone to near the jugular fossa, and transmits a small vein. The surface of the spiral lamina which looks towards this scala is marked with numerous transverse striae. The scala vestihuli is rather narrower than the scala tympani in the first turn of the cochlea ; it commences from the cavity of the vestibule, and communicates, as already described, with the scala tympani at the apex of the modiolus. The lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth.—This is a thin membrane (periosteum ?), which closely adheres to the whole inner surface of the several parts of the labyrinthic cavity just described. It has no con- tinuity with the lining membrane of the tympanum, being stretched across the openings of the round and oval fenestrjse. It is composed of fibres of connective tissue. Its outer surface is rough, and adheres closely, like periosteum, to the bone : the inner surface is pale and smooth, is covered with a single layer of epithelium, like that of the arachnoid, and secretes a thin, slightly albuminous or serous fluid. This secretion, known as the liquor Gotunnli, or 'perilymph^ separates the membranous from the osseous labyrinth in the vestibule and semicircular canals, occupies the cavities of the scala tympani and scala vestibuli in the cochlea, and is continued into the aqueducts as far as the membrane lining these passages remains pervious, THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. Within the osseous labyrinth, and separated from its lining membrane by the perilymph, membranous structures exist in which the ultimate ramifi- cations of the auditory nerve are spread. In the vestibule and semicircular canals these structures have a general resemblance in form to the com- plicated cavity in which they are contained. In the cochlea they complete the septum between the scalse already mentioned, and enclose a third spiral passage, the canalis membranacea, the existence of which has only been discovered of late years. The liquid contained within the membranous labyrinth is distinguished as endolymph. Vestibule.—The membranous vestibule consists of two closely connected sacs, and the parts by which they are united to the membranous semi- circular canals and canal of the cochlea. The larger of the two sacs, the common sinus or utricle, is of an oblong form, and slightly flattened from without inwards. It is lodged in the upper and back part of the osseous vestibule, occupying the fovea hemi- elliptica. Opposite the crista vestibuli several small branches of the audi- tory nerve enter from the foramina in the bone ; and here the walls of the common sinus are thicker and more opaque than elsewhere. The extre- mities of the membranous semicircular canals terminate in the cavity of the common sinus. A small mass of calcareous particles, otoliths or oto- conia, is lodged in the wall of the sac. These otoliths are crystals of carbonate of lime, and are described as six-sided, and pointed at their extre- mities. They are connected with the wall of the sac in a way not yet clearly determined. The smaller vestibular vesicle, the saccule, is more nearly spherical than the common sinus, but, like it, is somewhat flattened. The saccule is situated in the lower and fore part of the cavity of the osseous vestibule, close to the opening from the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and is received into the