THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 696 nates in the semilunar ganglion, frequently sending some filaments to the renal plexus and the suprarenal body. The splanchnic nerve is remarkable from its white colour and firmness, which are owing to the preponderance of the spinal nerve-fibres in its composition. In the chest the great splanchnic nerve is not unfrequently divided into parts, and forms a plexus with the small splanchnic nerve. Occasionally also a small ganglion (ganglion splanchnicum) is formed on it over the last dorsal vertebra, or the last but one ; and when it presents a plexiform arrangement, several small ganglia have been observed on its divisions. In eight instances out of a large number of bodies, Wrisberg observed a fourth splanchnic nerve (nervus splanchnicus supremus). It is described as formed by offsets from the cardiac nerves, and from the lower cervical, as well as some of the upper thoracic ganglia. ("Observ. Anatom. de Nerv. Yiscerum particula prima," p. 25, sect. 3.) SMALL SPLANCHNIC NERVE. - The small or second splanchnic nerve springs from the tenth or eleventh ganglia, or from the neighbouring part of the cord. It passes along with the preceding nerve, or separately through the diaphragm, and ends in the coeliac plexus. In the chest this nerve often communicates with the large splanchnic nerve ; and in some instances it furnishes filaments to the renal plexus, especially if the lowest splanchnic nerve is very small or wanting. SMALLEST SPLANCHNIC NERVE. This nerve (nerv. renalis posterior—Walter) arises from one of the lowest thoracic ganglia, and communicates sometimes with the nerve last described. After piercing the diaphragm, it ends in the renal plexus, and in the inferior part of the coeliac plexus. LUMBAR PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the lumbar region the two gangliated cords approach one another more nearly than in the thorax. They are placed before the bodies of the vertebrae, each lying along the inner margin of the psoas muscle ; and that of the right side is partly covered by the vena cava. The ganglia are small, and of an oval shape. They are commonly four in number, but occasionally, when their number is diminished, they are of larger size. Connection with spinal nerves.—In consequence of the greater distance at which the lumbar ganglia are placed from the intervertebral foramina, the branches of connection with the spinal nerves are longer than in other parts of the gangliated cord. There are generally two connecting branches for each ganglion, but the number is not so uniform as it is in the chest; nor are those belonging to any one ganglion connected always with the same spinal nerve. The connecting branches accompany the lumbar arte- ries, and, as they cross the bodies of the vertebrae, are covered by the fibrous bands which give origin to the larger psoas muscle. Branches.—The branches of these ganglia are uncertain in their number. Some join a plexus on the aorta ; others descending go to form the hypo- gastric plexus. Several filaments are distributed to the vertebrae and the ligaments connecting them. SACRAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. Over the sacrum the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve is much