THE SUPEAEENAL BODIES. 940 zona fascicnlata to the main part ; but as the transition from one of these parts to another is not sudden nor indicated by any line of demarcation, they Fig. 661. Fig. 662. Fig. 661.—Front view of the Eight Kibney and Suprarenal Body of a pull GROWN FcETUS. This figure shows the lobulated form of the foetal kidney r; v, the renal artery and vein ; w, the ureter ; s, the suprarenal capsule, the letter is placed near the sulcus ia which the large veins {x') are seen dividing and dipping into the interior of the organ. Fig. 662.—Sections of the Suprarenal Body. A, Vertical section of the suprarenal body of a foetus twice the natural size, showing the lower notch by which it rests on the summit of the kidney, and tlie anterior notch by which the veins penetrate, together with the distinction between the medullary and cortical substance. \ B, longitudinal section of the cortical substance, showing the capsules containing nucleated cells and intervening bloodvessels. ^fQ The figure represents a small fragment of a section made perpendicularly to the surface in a suprarenal body of which the bloodvessels were partially injected, a, one of the superficial masses of cells (in the zona glomerulosa of J. Arnold) ; a', one of the longer masses slightly deeper (zona fasciculata) ; 6, bloodvessels running in the septa of connective tissue between the cell-masses in a part of the specimen ; c, connective tissue and sheath substance on the surface ; c', con- nective tissue of the septa : this figure, though true to nature in the representation of the several textures, is so far diagrammatic that the space occupied by the shorter masses of cells towards the surface is proportionally too small. are probably only modifications of the same structure. The contents of the stroma consist of nucleus-like bodies from -jy^th to ^y^th of an inch in diameter, mixed with minute yellowish granules, and oily particles with granular matter adhering to them, together with large groups of closely-set nucleated cells containing granular matter and oily molecules. The cells vary from ^j^^th to t^Vo^^ i^^^ their opposing sides are somewhat flattened, giving them the form of irregular polyhedra : the larger cells are most loaded with oil globules. In many instances probably the appearance of free nuclei and oil globules is to be explained by cell-walls being ruptured or remaining unrecognised.