1041 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE rERIN.EUM. be ma'le to enter the bladder over tlie projection referred to. The part of the urethra encircled by the prostate admits of considerable dilatation. For the position of the seminal and other openings into it, reference may be made to the description of the canal at page 901. Behind the prostate the neck of the urinary bladder presents itself. Here the bladder is bound to the pubes at its upper part by the pelvic fascia, the bands of which are named its anterior ligaments. Laterally the fascia Fig. 715.—The Boxes of the Subpubto Arch Fig. 715. WITH THE Anterior Part of the Deep Perineal Fascia. In consequence of the connection between the fascia and the fibrous covering of the bulb having been cut, the passage for the urethra appears as a hole. 1, pubes near the symphysis, 2, hip-bone close to its tuberosity ; 3, deep perineal fascia— its anterior surface. reaches the organ in question over the side of the prostate ; and an elongation from the same membrane extends from side to side between the bladder and the rectum, after investing the vesiculte seminales and vasa deferentia. Turning attention in the next place to the rectum, which occupies the irregularly-shaped space behind the perinteum, we shall recall a few parti- culars respecting it. The lowest or third division of the bowel, which measures about an inch and a half in length, is directed obliquely back- Fig. 716.—The Pelvic Viscera of the Male seen on the Left SIDE. 1, the body of the pubes sawn through ; 2, cor- pus cavernosum iienis; 2', corpus spongiosum ; 3, prostate gland with a portion of the levator ani covering its fore part ; 4, urinary bladder; 5, in- testinuin rectum ; 6, deep perineal fascia—its two layers ; 7, cut edge of the pelvic fascia extending from the pubes to the back part of the prostate ; 8, vas deferens; 8', vesi- cula seminalis ; 9, ureter. The jagged cut edge of the peritoneum is seen passing over the bladder and rec- tum. wards from the fore part of the prostate to the anus ; ani as at the same time the urethra, here inclines forAvards with the penis, the space between the two widens towards the surface of the perinseum. Into this space the bulb of the corpus spongiosum drops down, occupying it more or less Fig. 716.