COATS OF THE BLADDEK. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 951 whole of the muscular fibres around the prostate and prostatic portion of the urethra are supposed by Pettigrew to be formed by the lower extremities of the various figures-8. The general idea of this figure-8 arrangement was first suggested by Sabatier, by whom the more marked examples of it are described ; but it has been fully elaborated by the researches of Pettigrew. A strong muscular bundle already alluded to passes, as shown by Ellis, with its convexity forwards between the terminations of the ureters, con- tinuous with the longitudinal fibres of these tubes. Other fibres mentioned by Morgagni, and more fully described under the name of the "muscles of the ureters" by Sir C. Bell, pass forwards from the ureters towards the urethra : they are considered by Pettigrew not as special structures, but as a part of the general arrangement of fibres in that part of the bladder. On the muscular arrangements of the bladder, see Pettigrew, in Phil. Trans, for 1866 ; Sabatier, Pech. j^nat. et Phys. sur les Appareils musculaires correspond ants h la vessie et k la prostate dans les deux sexes, 1864 ; and in Henle's Jahrbericht; Ellis, in Trans. Med. Chir. Society, 1856, and Demonstrations, 3 861. The muscular coat of the bladder forms so irregular a covering, that when the organ is much distended, intervals arise in which the walls are very thin ; and should the internal or mucous lining protrude in any spot through the muscular bundles, a sort of hernia is produced, which may go on increasing, so as to form what is called a vesical sacculus, or appendix vesicae, the bladder thus affected being termed sacculated. Hyper- trophy of the muscular fasciculi, which is liable to occur in stricture of the urethra or other affections impeding the issue of the urine, gives rise to that condition named the fasciculated bladder, in which the interior of the organ is marked by strong, reticulated ridges or columns, with intervening depressions. JSText to the muscular coat, between it and the mucous membrane, but much more intimately connected with the latter, is a well-marked layer of areolar tissue, frequently named the cellular, or vascular coat. This sub- mucous areolar layer contains a large quantity of very fine coiled fibres of elastic tissue. The mucous membrane of the bladder is soft, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous above with the lining membrane of the ureters and kidneys, and below with that of the urethra. It adheres loosely to the muscular tissue, and is thus liable to be thrown into wrinkles, except at the trigone, where it is consequently always more even. It is covered with a stratified epithelium, the particles of which are intermediate in form between those of the columnar and squamous varieties. There are no villi upon the vesical mucous membrane, but it is provided with minute follicles, and small racemose glands lined with columnar epithelium, which are most abundant in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder. The vesical mucus (according to Mandl) is alkaline, and appears to contain alkaline and earthy phosphates. Vessels.—The siqjeiHor vesical arteries proceed from the remaining pervious portions of the hypogastric arteries; in the adult they appear as direct branches of the internal iliac. The inferior vesical arteries are usually derived from the anterior division of the internal iliac. In the female the uterine arteries also send branches to the, bladder. The neck and base of the organ appear to be the most vascular portions. The veins form large plexuses around the neck, sides and base of the bladder; they eventually pass into the internal iliac veins. The lymphatics follow a similar course. The nerves are derived partly from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, and partly from the sacral plexus of the cerebro-spinal system. The former are said to be chiefly distributed to the upper part of the bladder, whilst the spinal nerves may be traced more directly to its neck and base.