840 THE INTESTINE. duodenum is invested by the peritoneum on its anterior surface only,— the posterior surface being connected to the right kidney and the verte- bral column by areolar tissue. In front is the transverse colon and meso- colon, the upper lajer of which is continuous with the peritoneal covering of the duodenum. To the left is the head of the pancreas, which adapts itself to the shape of the intestine on that side. The common bile duct descends behind the left border of this part of the duodenum, and to- gether with the pancreatic duct, which accompanies it for a short distance, perforates the coats of the intestine obliquely near the lower part of its left or concave border. In the interior of this part of the intestine the val- vulse coniventes appear numerously ; and an eminence or papilla found about four inches below the pylorus, on the inner and back part of the intestine, marks the situation of the common orifice of the biliary and pan- creatic ducts. The third or transverse or oblique portion, somewhat the longest and nar- rowest, beginning on the right of the third lumbar vertebra, crosses in front of the second obliquely from right to left, and continuing to ascend obliquely for an inch or more, ends in the jejunum at the left side of the vertebral column. It is placed immediately behind the root of the transverse meso- colon, and the commencement of the mesentery, as has been already de- scribed, and has the vena cava inferior and the aorta behind it. At its termination it forms an abrupt angle with the commencement of the jeju- num. This is due to its being maintained, at that point, in its position, by a strong fibrous band descending from the left crus of the diaphragm and the tissue round the coeliac axis. According to Treitz, muscular fibres come from both these sources to this part of the duodenum. In subjects in which the intestines are large and dilated, the curve of the duodenum may descend to the level of the iliac crest, but owing to the support given by the band alluded to, its terminal extremity maintains a uniform position. Close to this point the superior mesenteric vessels pass from beneath the pancreas to enter the mesentery on the surface of the duodenum. Jejunum and Ileum.—The jejunum, originally so called from its having been supposed to be empty after death, follows the duodenum, and in- cludes the upper two-fifths of the remainder of the small intestine, while the succeeding three-fifths constitute the ileum, so named from its nume- rous coils or convolutions. Both the jejunum and the ileum are attached and supported by the mesentery. The convolutions of the jejunum are situated in part of the umbilical and left iliac regions of the abdomen ; while the ileum occupies paii; of the umbilical and right iliac regions, together with the hypogastric, and descends into the pelvis, from which its lower end, supported by the mesentery, which is here very short, ascends obliquely to the right and somewhat backwards, over the corresponding psoas muscle, and ends in the right iliac fossa, by opening into the inner side of the commencement of the large intestine. There is no defined limit between the jejunum and the ileum, but the character of the intes- tine gradually changes from its upper to its lower end, so that portions of the two intestines, remote from each other, present certain well- marked difi'erences of structure, which may be here enumerated. Thus, the jejunum is wider, and its coats are thicker ; it is more vascular, and therefore it has a deeper colour ; its valvulse conniventes are long, wide, and numerous ; its villi are well developed ; and the patches of Peyer's glands are smaller, less frequent, and sometimes confined to its lower part. The ileum, on the other hand, is narrower; its coats are thin-