THE TEETH. 800 limits. The ernptioii commences at the age of seven mouths, and is com- pleted about the end of the second year. It begins with the central incisors Fig. 558.—The Dental Sacs exposed in the Jaw OP A Child at Biuth. a, the left half seen from the inner side ; h, tbe right half seen from the outer side ; part of tbe bone has been removed so as to ex- pose the dental sacs as they lie below the gum ; the lower figure shows the sacs of the milk teeth and the first permanent molar, ex- posed by removing the bone from the outside ; the upper figure shows the same from the inside, together with the pediculated sacs of the per- manent incisor and canine teeth adhering to the gum. of the lower jaw, which are immediately followed by those of the upper jaw ; and, as a general rule, each of the lower range of teeth rises through the gum before the corresponding tooth of the upper set. The following scheme indicates in months, the order and time of eruption of the milk-teeth. CANINES. 24 12 18 9 7 7 18 12 24 Before the teeth protrude through the gum, this undergoes some peculiar changes : its edge at first becomes dense and sharp, but as the tooth ap- proaches it, the sharp edge disappears, the gum becomes rounded or tumid, and is of a purplish hue ; the summit of the tooth is seen like a white spot or line through the vascular gum, and soon after rises through it. As the crown of the tooth advances to its ultimate position, the elongated fang be- comes surrounded by a bony socket or alveolus. Before the eruption, the mucous membrane is studded with a number of small white bodies, which were described by Serres as glands {dental glands), and were supposed by him to secrete the tartar of the teeth. Meckel thought they were small abscesses, because no aperture could be detected in them. In a foetus of six months, they were found by Sharpey to be small round pearl-like bodies situated in the corium of the mucous membrane, and having no aperture : they con- sist of small spherical capsules of various sizes, lined with a thick stratum of epithelium, the inner cells of which are flattened or scaly, like those lining the cheek, and are so numerous as almost to fill up the cavity. They are the prominences of the outer epithelial layer of the enamel organ, already referred to. Development of the permanent teeth.—The preceding description of the structure of the dental sacs and pulps and of the mode of formation of the