THE CEANIAL NERVES. 598 orbicularis palpebrarum and occipito-frontalis muscles, furnishing twigs to these muscles and the corrugator supercilii, and, after ascending on the fore- head, ramifies in the infcegument. h. The supra-orbital branch (external frontal) passes through the supra- orbital notch to the forehead, and ends in muscular, cutaneous, and peri- cranial branches ; while in the notch it distributes palpebral filaments to the upper eyelid. The muscular hranclies referred to are comparatively small, and supply the corrugator of the eyebrow, the occipito-frontalis, and the orbicular muscle of the eyelids, joining the facial nerve in the last muscle. The cutaneous branches, among which two (outer and inner) may be noticed as the principal, are placed at first beneath the occipito- frontalis. The outer one, the larger, perforates the tendinous expansion of the muscle, and ramifies in the scalp as far back as the lambdoidal suture. The inner branch reaches the surface sooner than the preceding nerve, and ends in the integument over the parietal bone. The pericranial branches arise from the cutaneous nerve beneath the muscle, and end in the pericranium covering the frontal and parietal bones. Fig. 405.—Nerves op the Or- bit FROM THE Outer Side (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). f The external rectus muscle has been divided and turned down : 1, the optic nerve; 2, the trunk of the third nerve ; 3, its upper division passing into the levator palpebrse and superior rectus; 4, its long lower branch to the inferior oblique muscle ; 5, the sixth or abducent nerve joined by twigs from the sympathetic; 6, the Gasserian ganglion ; 7, ophthalmic nerve ; 8, its nasal branch ; 9, the ophthal- mic ganglion; 10, its short or motor root; 11, long sensory root from the nasal nerve ; 12, sympathetic twig from the carotid plexus ; 13, ciliary nerves passing into the eyeball; 14, frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. NASAL BRANCH. The nasal branch (oculo-nasalis), separating from its parent trunk in the wall of the cavernous sinus, enters the orbit betvreen the heads of the outer rectus. It then inclines inwards over the optic nerve, beneath the elevator of the upper eyelid and the superior rectus muscle, to the inner wall of the orbit, through which it passes by the anterior internal orbital foramen. In this oblique course across the orbit it furnishes a single filament to the ophthalmic ganglion, two or three (long ciliary) directly to the eyeball ; and, at the inner side of the cavity, a considerable branch (infra-trochlear), which issues from the orbit at the fore part. On leaving the orbit the nasal nerve is directed transversely inwards to the upper surface of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and passing forwards in a groove at its outer edge, within the cranium, descends by a special aperture close to the crista galli at the fore part of the plate to the roof of the nasal fossa, where it divides into two branches, one of which (external or superficial nasal) reaches the integument of the side of the nose, and the other (ramus septi) ramifies in the pituitary membrane. Fig, 105.