1063 SCAPULAR MUSCLES, &c.—BRACHIAL REGION^. been already laid bare, and to dissect all the cut muscles, so as to bring their attachments completely into view ; he may then remove the redun- dant masses which are no longer required, preserving only such portions of tendons and muscles as may be necessary for subsequent revision of their relations to the joints and their attachments to the bones. He will then clean the deltoid muscle, beginning from behind, so as to save as much as possible the cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve (pp. 208 and 645). He will dissect the teres major muscle, and the quadrangular and triangular intervals which are separated by the long head of the triceps muscle, and lie between the teres muscle and the scapula ; and he will lay bare, as far as can be done without' injury to the muscles, the structures which pass through these intervals, viz., in the upper or quadrangular one, the circumflex nerve, with its branch to the teres minor muscle, and the posterior circumflex artery, and in the lower or triangular interval, the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery (p. 380). The deltoid muscle is next to be removed from the whole of its superior attachment, and beneath it will be seen the bursa that lies between the acromion and shoulder-joint (p. 138), and the branches of the circumflex vessels and nerve. The teres minor, infraspinatus and supraspinatus muscles are to be dissected and reflected, and the distribution of the suprascapular nerve and artery traced. While this is done, neither the deltoid ligament nor acromion need be divided. The subscapular muscle is likewise to be examined, with the two short subscapular nerves which supply it ; and on reflecting this muscle, the subscapular bursa will be observed communicating with the shoulder-joint. In removing the muscles attached to the scapula, the student should bring into view the anastomoses of the posterior scapular, suprascapular, acromio-thoracic, dorsal branch of the subscapular, and the circumflex arteries. The scapular muscles may then be cut short at their attachments to the humerus. 4. Subcutaneous view of the Arm.—In proceeding with the dissection of the arm, if the part be in a condition favourable for the purpose, the dissector may at once display the cutaneous nerves and veins as far as the wrist (p. 647). He will, in that case, make an incision all the way down to the wrist in front of the limb ; or, should it be deemed advisable not to remove the integument so far, he may terminate his incision half-way down the fore-arm. For the easier preservation of the cutaneous nerves, which lie close to the aponeurosis of the limb, he will remove the subcutaneous fat by reflecting it in the direction from above downwards. The intercosto- humeral nerve is to be traced down to its distribution (p. 657). The nerve of Wrisberg and the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve will be most easily traced from their deep origins (pp. 646 and 652). The internal cutaneous nerve will be found piercing the aponeurosis on the inside of the arm in two separate places, a few inches above the elbow ; and on the outer side will be found the two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve, appearing in the line of the external inter- muscular septum ; while at the bend of the elbow, towards the outer side, the musculo-cutaneous or external cutaneous nerve will be observed emerging from the deep parts. Near the elbow, on the inner side, there is a small lymphatic gland, and on the subcutaneous part of the olecranon a small synovial bursa. Further down, there may be seen on the inner side a cutaneous branch from the ulnar nerve, below the middle of the fore- arm ; on the outer side the radial nerve becoming superficial two or three inches above the wrist ; and in front the palmar cutaneous branch of the