THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. 991 On the subject of the ovum the following works may be mentioned :— Martin Barry's Researches on Embryology, in Phil. Trans., 1838 and 1839; Allen Thomson, Article " Ovum," in Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys., where also the literature will be found referred to ; Farre, " Uterus and Ap- pendages," in the same ; Pfliiger, Die Eierstocke der Saiigethiere und des Menschen, Leipzig, 1863 ; Schron, in Zeitsch. f. Wissensch. Zoologie, vol. xji. p. 409 ; Grohe, in Yirchow's Archiv, vol. xxvi. p. 271 ; also in Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxix. p. 450 ; Spiegelberg, in Virchow's Archiv, vol. XXX. p. 466 ; and Henle, in his Handbuch, The Fallopian tubes.—These tubes, which may be considered as ducts of the ovaries, or oviducts, and which serve to convey the ovum from thence into the uterus, are inclosed in the free margin of the broad liga- ments. They are between three and four inches in length. Their inner or attached extremities, which proceed from the upper angles of the uterus, are narrow and cord-like ; but they soon begin to enlarge, and pro- ceeding outwards, one on each side, pursue an undulatory course, and at length, having become gradually wider, they bend backwards and down- wards towards the ovary, about an inch beyond which they terminate in an expanded extremity, the margin of which is divided deeply into a number of irregular processes named fimhrice ; one of these, somewhat longer than the rest, is attached to the outer end of the corresponding ovary. The wide and fringed end of the Fallopian tube, or rather trumpet, as the term " tuba " literally signifies, is turned downwards and towards the ovary, and is named the fimbriated extremity (morsus diaboli). In the midst of these fimbriae, which are arranged in a circle, the tube itself opens by a round constricted orifice, ostium abdominale, placed at the Fig. 690. Fig. 690.—Diagrammatic View op the Uterus and its Appendages, as seen from BEHIND. I The uterus and upper part of the vagina have heen laid open by removing the posterior wall; the Fallopian tube, round ligament, and ovarian ligament have been cut short and the broad ligament removed on the left side; u, the upper part of the uterus ; c, the cervix opposite the os internum ; the triangular shape of the uterine cavity is shown and the dilatation of the cervical cavity with the rugse termed arbor vitse ; v, upper part of the vagina ; od, Fallopian tube or oviduct ; tbe narrow communication of its cavity with that of tbe cornu of the uterus on each side is seen ; I, round ligament ; lo, ligament of the ovary ; o, ovary: i, wide outer part of the right Fallopian tube; f i, its fimbriated extremity ; po, parovarium ; A, one of the hydatids frequently found connected with the broad ligament.