LIGAMENTS OF THE LAT^YNX. 909 is called yellow or spongy cartilago, which has little tendency to ossify. The structure of all the other cartiliges of the larynx resembles that of the costal cartilages, like which, they are very prone to ossification as life advances. Ligaments of the larijnx.—The epiglottidean ligaments and the union of the cricoid cartilage with the trachea have been already mentioned : the other ligaments of the larynx may be divided into thyro-hyoid, crico- thyroid, and arytenoid groups. Thyro-hyoid ligaments.—The larynx is connected with the os hyoides by a broad membrane and by two round lateral ligaments. The thyro-hyoid membrane, or middle thyro-hyoid ligament, is a broad, fibrous, and somewhat elastic membrane, which passes up from the whole length of the superior border of the thyroid cartilage to the os hyoides, where it is attached to, the posterior and upper margin of the obliquely inclined inferior surface of the bone. Owing to this arrangement, the top of the larynx, when drawn upwards, is permitted to slip within the circumference of the hyoid bone, between which and the upper part of the thyroid cartilage there is occasion- ally found a small synovial bursa. The thyro-hyoid membrane is thick and subcutaneous towards the middle line, but on each side becomes thin and loose, and is covered by the thyro-hyoid muscles. Behind it is the epi- glottis with the mucous membrane of the base of the tongue, separated, however, by much adipose tissue and some glands. It is perforated by the superior laryngeal artery and nerve of each side. The lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments, placed at the posterior limits of the thyro-hyoid membrane, are two rounded yellowish cords, which pass up from the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage, to the rounded extremities of the great cornua of the hyoid bone. They are distinctly elastic, and fre- quently enclose a small oblong cartilaginous nodule, which has been named cartilago triticea: sometimes this nodule is bony. Crico-thyroid ligaments.—The thyroid and cricoid cartilages are connected together by a membranous ligament and synovial articulations. The crico- thyroid membrane is divisible into a mesial and two lateral portions. The inesial portion, broad below and narrow above, is a strong triangular yel- lowish ligament, consisting chiefly of elastic tissue, and is attached to the contiguous borders of the two cartilages. Its anterior surface is convex and is partly covered by the crico-thyroid muscles, and is crossed horizontally by a small anastomotic arterial arch, formed by the junction of the crico-thyroid branches of the right and left superior thyroid arteries. The lateral por- tions are fixed on each side to the inner lip of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, between the deep muscles and the mucous membrane : they become much thinner as they pass upwards and backwards, and are continuous with the lower margin of the inferior or true vocal cords, becom- ing blended with them firmly in front. The crico-thyroid' joints, between the inferior cornua of the thyroid carti- lage and the sides of the cricoid, are two small but distinct articulations, having each a ligamentous capsule and a synovial membrane. The promi- nent oval articular surfaces of the cricoid cartilage are directed upwards and outwards, while those of the thyroid cartilage, which are slightly concave, look in the opposite direction. The capsular fibres form a stout band be- hind the joint. The movement allowed is of a rotatory description, the thyroid cartilage revolving on its inferior cornua, and the axis of rotation passing transversely through the two joints. Arytenoid ligaments. —The arytenoid cartilages are connected below with