CATALOGUE THE MUSEUM AND LIBRARY BELONGING TO THE BIRMINGHAM SCHOOL OF MEDICINE. M.DCCC.XXXII.a fell! ^ M \ tnuiuL s^*.' »»f^im?Sin -1143 _t*> ■*"»t * r. ^ K -V'- t€ t A.I U. v,>;) j , ia ^JI y^.flaij an ?i O^' * ‘V!|iy|t*^ ny -, f . i Tv<^'nn/Ji . I i'..^rji iHtti ,, -6 . NtjrV'i,; C4^ ;tifT Vr) tfir aIjk . a /. mH 5.&,^ j;| VaJS :* /t r*J'\ vJSt<*-4<t jf n f^tiir? j 'oatrAti-* i*wi>.wifg"" V mm/%^ %. r n*j ^ ^ ■1^ .<1 */ »HtJ i; . •» k-rvi^Uk i:imiii*M, ^ if“t‘'ik% ftl(Q%.ii^i ■'■ tii^i .,v t/ixij'*'tlt 1^<l»;I^JVr i»rY>»»XJr^PATRONS. ills GRACE THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON MARQUESS OF LANSDOWNE, EARL OF PLYMOUTH EARL FITZWILLIAM EARL SPENCER EARL OF BRADFORD EARL HOWE EARL OF MOUNTNORRIS EARL OF DUDLEY LORD VISCOUNT HOOD LORD LYTTLETON LORD CALTHORPE LORD BISHOP OF THE DIOCESE SIR GRAY SKIPWITH, Bart., M. P. SIR ROBERT PEEL, Bart. M. P. SIR EARDLEY EARDLEY-WII.MOT, Bart. SIR ASTLEY COOPER, Bart. FRANCIS LAWLEY, Esq. M. P. D. S. DUGDALE, Esq. CHANDOS LEIGH, Esq. REV. CHANCELLOR LAW, D. D. President,—EDWARD JOHNSTONE, M. D. Vice-President—JOHN JOHNSTONE, M. D. Treasurers—MESSRS. TAYLORS AND LLOYDS. Barrister—EDWARD JOHNSTONE, Esq. Solicitor-—JOHN MEREDITH, Esq. LECTURERS. Anatomy and Surgery—WILLIAM SANDS COX Materia Medica and Therapeutics—RICHARD PEARSON, M D, Chemistry and Pharmacy—JOHN WOOLRICH Principles and Practice of Medicine—JOHN ECCLES, M. D. Forensic Medicine-JT. BIRT DAVIES, M. D. Principles and Practice of Midwifery—JOHN INGLEBY Vegetable Physiology and Botany—G. B. KNOWLES0 PATRONS AND DONORS. 1831. £, S‘ Eaul of Px,YaiouTir.,^ 10 10 Earl of Dartmouth 10 10 Earl Spencer,^.. 10 0 Earl of Bradford 10 10 Lord Viscount Hood 10 10 Lord Calthorpe 10 10 Sir B. Peel, Bart. M. P. 10 10 Sir E. AVilmot, Bart 10 10 Sir a. Cooper, Bart. 10 0 F. Lawley, M. P 10 10 Bev. Chancellor Law 10 10 Chandos Leigh, Esq 10 10 The PIigh Bailiff, 1 ^ r C Oliver Mason, Esq.) j ** The Low Bailiff, r//en-\ ^ r ry Smith, Esq.) .Jasies Taylor Esq 10 10 S. Amphlett, Droitivich . 2 2 J. C. Barlow 5 5 T. Burman, Ilenleiy-in- 1 A rden J 10 10 J. IL Booth, M. D.„ S' .V J. Y. Bedford 2 2 T. Bellamy,™ „ 2 2 J. Bond, Polesworth^ 2 2 Bev. ,T. Cooke 2 2 Edward T. Cox fJ o S' W. S. Cox 6 6 J. Birt Davies, M. D 6 5 B. Dones ^ 5 5 J. Eccles, M. D..^ 6 £. s, G. Edwardes, Wolver- ) « „ hampton j- a 2 J. Gough, Perry Hall 5 5 E. Grainger 5 5 E. Hickslvn 2 2 E. .Johnstone, M. D. 10 10 J. .Johnstone, M. D. 5 5 .J. Ingleby 5 5 Bev. B. Kennedy 2 2 G. B. Knowles 5 6 J. I>LOYD 5 5 J. Ledsam-,. 2 2 G. E. IMale, M. D. 2 2 J. Meredith 5 5 G. Moore, Moretori-in-Marsh 2 2 H. Osborn 2 2 J. Oates, Sutlon 2 2 B. Pearson, JL D.~ 5 5 Bev. B. Pearson, A. 2 2 T. Lane Parker 2 2 S. Partridge 5 5 J. Bobertson 2 2 J. ScHOLEFIELD 5 5 John Simcox 5 5 G. Taylor 5 5 T. Upfill 2 2 Bichard Wood 5 5 T. WiLLiA Jis, Wolverhampton 2 2 G. W. Welch, Handsworth 2 2 J. WOOLRICH 6 5 Bobert Wood 2 2Two Prize Subjects are proposed for the Year 1832: JOHNSTONIAN PRIZE, Ten Guineas, Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology of the Great Sympathetic Nerve. To be awarded by Dr. Pearson, Dr. Eccles, and Mr. W. S. Cox. EDWARD TOWNSEND COX, Esq. Five Guineas, To be awarded by Sir Astley Cooper, Bart. Candidates to be Students of the School. Each Essay to be dis- tinguished by a motto or device, and accompanied by a sealed paper containing the name and address of the Author, and having on the outside a motto or device, corresponding with that on the Essay. Essays to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary, and delivered at the School on or before May 1, 1832. DONATIONS. Donations of Preparations, Specimens, Models, and Casts; of Manuscripts, Printed Books, Drawings, Engravings, &c. wiU be received with due consideration by the Board of Curators; and the names of the Donors will consequently be recorded in the Catalogue of Benefactors to the Institution.. ^ ' ^31^, ifuf u»i ira^Muan aa*^mc«>«r^4 a.^ka£^ Sk, ^ , __„,, vu^rnmmoi Mi ^ '.'^’ J ’^/vlKSTJ^KfiOl • • r - v<aT al'oii^wCA i„.,rt .*1 :v, ,^,WhS4 ’^*.1, i -TV; '^.^1 . -t<5* .’i^PSi'*!»*»*» « m ■h 'S"^»aJ “• -j _ h «i^a'‘. ... 1 SA ^*» ^-* f >C* . . a=^ 1 ^ mm ^ %»#»•*,•»• I ^ ' I y*t^f Jv »*»^ >.-'-^ • ^J *'>^ * n/r »• 3if •4’).^'y*cf r 3!: ^ .v.-:"a:;ui^OT 3i;d> aftfl''0Bj ■* ,^»rii'4w;c>t^«5r'.t>a'.'t: #*>ir *’V to' trr0^1W<f ,id^iTarf/r *'* 6t0 hrta Irtfi^ay^^ ..f^A.rA *1 • r ’ a . 4 ?J (54«Jiiy9|^'>;UfW .JW<:ii(£ «Hl to M«mtr ■ •'.ui4ttfiiml^>fi!r(ammlifaSi'%i < ■St] IP*PREFACE. Nearly four years have elapsed since the School of Medicine in Birmingham was opened for the admission of Students to the Lectures delivered in the various departments of Medical Science; and during that period, the Lecturers attached to the School have had the satisfaction to find that their labours have been attended with the best success. The several Classes have progressively in- creased, and numerous Students have been enabled by the Instruc- tion received at this Institution, to pass their examination at the Royal College of Surgeons, and at the Apothecaries’ Hall, London, without any attendance at the Medical Schools in the Metropolis.—• Indeed the utility* and efficiency of Provincial Schools of Medicine had been, some years before, fully evinced by those of Manchester. As Anatomy constitutes the basis of Medical Education, it is obvious that, in addition to the Lectures in each branch of the study of Medicine, every Medical School should be provided with a Museum of Natural, Comparative, and Morbid Anatomy, to illus- trate the science of Physiology, Medicine, Surgery, and Obstetrics; and for these purposes, to contain preparations, shewing the struc- ture of the difierent parts of the human body in a state of health, the corresponding structure in other animals, and the deviations from healthy structure as occasioned by disease. By the unwearied exertions of the Lecturer on Anatomy, numerous Anatomical Pre- parations were collected together anterior to the opening of the School, the interests of which were thereby much promoted. It • In confirmation of the utility of Provincial Schools, it is satisfactory to be able to adduce the evidence of an eminent and impartial observer, Aston Key, Esq., Senior Surgeon to Quy’s Hospital, I.ondon, and Lecturer on Surgery in that School; an abstract from whose valuable Paper on Provincial Schools will he found in the Appendix to these remarks.H soon became obvious that, to give full efficiency to the Institution, a public Museum attached to the School would be required; an object which has now been, to a considerable extent, accomplished, by the contribution of the private collections of the Lecturers on Anatomy and Midwifery, by additions of valuable Preparations from the collections of many members of the profession, who have, with great liberality, either presented them, or allowed them to be deposited in the Museum; but above all, by the munificence of various noblemen and gentlemen, whose donations have supplied funds adequate to the fitting-up of the Museum, the purchase of many expensive Preparations in wax, obtained at a great expense from the Continent, and the formation of a Library of reference— of which and the hluseum, short Catalogues are herewith pub- lished. It should be further remarked, in reference to the IMuseum, that illustrations of the other departments of Medical Instruction, and of the sciences subsidiary to Medicine, have not been over- looked ; and accordingly, it has been furnished with a complete set of specimens in Materia Medica, obtained from Apothecaries’ Hall with a small but valuable collection of Minerals, contributed by the Lecturer on Chemistry, and some specimens in the other branches of Natural History; and in the Library w’iU be found nearly all the best and latest works ef Engravings, illustrative of Anatomy, Pathology, and Botany. Thus the School of Medicine in Birmingham is now provided with all the means that were wanted to bring it into full and effi- cient operation. The advantages of a Museum and Library of reference, such as those above described, in a central part of the Island, both to those of the medical profession who are now commencing their studies, and also to those who have completed them, must be apparent to every reflecting mind. It will save the junior part many expences which they would otherwise incur by a lengthened residence in London; and an occasional reference to the IMuseum and Library will serve to revive in the recollection of the established Practitioner some points, in regard to natural and morbid anatomy and other subjects, which, in the multiplicity of professional en- gagements and pursuits, may in part have been obliterated.APPENDIX. iLetter on Provincial Medical Schools by Aston Key, Esq. Lecturer On Surgery and Senior Surgeon to Guy’s Hospital, London—‘ London Medical Gazette, December: 3, 1831. In allusion to a Provincial School which he had visited, Mr. Key remarks,—‘‘ The object of giving a sound elementary edu- cation to young Students cannot fail to be attained, and their utility, in forwarding the means of education, cannot be questioned. The advantages they pi'esent are numerous; ilot only to the Students who may be desirous of obtaining information, but to all concerned, whether in the business of medical instruction, or in the manage- ment of the hospitals and infirmaries, which most of our large towns possess. It becomes the interest, no less than it is the duty, of the Governors of provincial hospitals and infirmaries, to foster with care these rising institutions, which have difficulties enough to encounter in the hitherto insurmountable prejudices of the vul- gar, without meeting with opposition from those whom they naturally look up to for support. The best talent which the Town affords will be secured to the public institutions for the sick poor; or if it be not secured, at least no plan can be well devised that affords a fairer chance of advancement to the successful and indus- trious teacher of his profession, or that more efiectually direct patronage to its legitimate object—the protection and advancement of merit. “ Much, however, as all classes are benefited by sucli establish- tnents, none participate so deeply in their advantages, and so imme- diately, as the Students themselves. The regulations for study now imposed on a Medical Student by the recent enactments of the M10 Collage of Surgeons, London, and the Apothecaries' Hail, render it no easy task for a Pupil, however diligent he may he, to follow, with any lasting effect, the course of study prescribed, in the short period allotted for their residence in Town. “ To follow with zeal the extensive range of pursuits, as is comprised in the List of the regulations for study now imposed by the College of Surgeons and Apothecaries’ Hall, requires, not only a spirit, but a frame of constitution rarely possessed by a youth of twenty years of age. And it unfortunately happens that a Season rarely elapses without one or more of our most hard-working young men falling a sacrifice to their close application. “ It needs but little argument to convince the Student of the utter impossibility of effectively bestowing his attention to all the important branches of medical education, unless he is able to lighten his labour, by having previously obtained an extensive acquaintance with Anatomy before he commences his studies in Town. Provin^ cial Schools afford him, during his pupilage, the means of gaining this solid foundation. The objections so frequently urged against the long period of apprenticeship, as required by the existing laws, vanish, when the instruction received by occasional attendance on Lectures, during apprenticeship, is taken into consideration. The mind of a Surgeon’s Pupil, who possesses these advantages, becomes early drilled and initiated, not only, as heretofore, in the mechanical art of dispensing medicines, but in the interesting walks of science. He is insensibly led to form a just estimation of the profession in which he is embarked, and to take early delight in those pursuits which are to fonn his principal study. At the termination of his apprenticeship, with a mind well prepared by previous habits of study, and a disposition to take advantage of every opportunity that offers of obtaining information, he comes to a large hospital, where he soon begins to find the value of his previously-acquired knowledge. Instead of being obliged to devote his time to the acquisition of the elementary principles of science, he is able to see and understand their application in practice: instead of exclusively passing his valuable time in the ordinary occupation of a dissecting room—which the Pupil uninformed in Anatomy is compelled to do—he can select liis subjects for dissection, and more accurately inform himself in those parts that are concerned in operations and11 practical surgery. He is able to spare more time for observation of disease at the bed-side, aided by the remarks of the Physician and Surgeon; his previous information divests his pursuits of that irk- someness that must attend a course of study directed solely with a view to pass an examination; and he feels and regards his studies rather in the light of a pleasant pursuit, than as an arduous and laborious task. It were endless to attempt to enumerate or to describe the advantages and influence of previous study on a young man, before he comes to a large scene of disease for the completion of his edu- cation : but there is one, in which is comprised so much that is good, that it deserves to be especially pointed out; I mean the utter ex- tinction of that pernicious system technically termed grinding.”— The demands made on a Student’s time have hitherto rendered this process, to a certain extent, unavoidable. A young man must have a retentive memory, indeed, who can pursue science as it ought to be followed, and at the same time retain in his mind, at the end of two years, those points which an examination calls for. The Stu- dent who conducts his studies, solely intent upon his examinations, will charge his memory with the details of his subjects, to be forgotten as soon as they cease to be subservient to the purposes for which they were acquired. " Strongly impressed with the necessity of Medical Pupils of the present day coming to Town with some knowledge of the sub- jects of their future studies, I have thought it right to impress on their minds the immense advantages which the Schools in large towns hold out to them ; assuring them that they will sensibly feel the benefits arising from them during the whole of their profes- sional career.”i. %i'M’tirf‘iih^tt>. Mat *g^ J^ffifiatnti m f»*^jn TKr t j?^'iii6i^'ite *y» ,<r^) ;i- 'io^tiiyil ^ijgt »*4Hk ^ • '^^Itti fvvi'ioJid oHfnof» of TO MAlifAiVW »}'9h*ihm :^mjX\y- a axh'iSuin * ^hliif^^.'P f{ff imrr^ ▼ -rr / ?, ^ CKT^irtMi^p «rf #djjfiO‘^r <5^. ^B-iMuii'^^aisTB r?iJin*n« f«ja*9^ ji5^\f3ulrt liiT^fl W i*fw ^tsrvDiSi^ 1^ -^l6 .tol 'illin (^^vf 4lj9bl^ !«c«t» :n«9T vrrfl oJw i<mfi wjm»[ o#y JU,o* 4>m& v;.3» f(sl^,4^>r ’iWi >;j’'f^^^ ^ a«faiw MihiewT s4> ^i%-^-'tlfc*»l/l( .liJdiT »* - SI 9oa» ‘ i^^^^j»(if :#« ' *tj \t# .Wl* •!•» »^'<i« ‘iltrffiJfr'.•*'’: ‘ V ^ ♦ ‘ , . ■•«***»&t^ ■ -t « ••• ' # •CATALOGUE OF THE MUSEUM. OSSEOUS SYSTEM, A Skeleton of an Adult Male Ditto ditto ditto Ditto ditto Female Upper Extremities, articulated Lower Extremities, articulated B • Bones of the Tnmk a7id Extremities. Two JMale Pelvises, and a strongly-marked welLformed Pelvis—ibid Two Female Pelvises . . , . ibid The Ossa Innoipinata, SacraHa et Coxalia . . . ibid The Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar Vertebrse . . ibid Vertebra, picked up on the Plain of Waterloo ‘ . Mr. Corns Sections of the Spinal Column, to shew Vertebral Canal Mr. W. S. Cox Bones of the Bower Extremity. Mr. W. S. Cox . ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid Ten Ossa Femorum, ten Tibiae, ten Fibulae, and eight Patellae—ibid Tarsal, Metatarsal Bones, and Phalanges . . . ibid Bones of the Foot, articulated , . . , ibid Bones of the Upper Extremity. Eight ClaviculiE, ten Scapulae, and twelve Humeri . ibid Twelve Radii, twelve Ulnae .... ibid Carpal, Metacarpal, and Phalanges, separate and articulated ibid Costae, and Ossa Sterni .... ibid14 C Of the Skull. An Adult Cranium, Sutures strongly marked . . Hid Cranium of Chapman, executed at Wai^vick, for Murder W. Harris, Esq. Cranium marked according to the System of Gall—il/r. W. S. Cox Cranium of a North American Indian . . ibid A Negro Skull ...... ibid Cranium of a Male, aged 102, Alveolar Processes of the Teeth completely absorbed .... A Skull, with the Sagittal Suture continued to the Nose— Os Frontis, shewing the Frontal Sinuses with their Bony Septum Mr. W. S. Cox Cranium of Female Ossa Triquetra, strongly marked . ibid A Skull, shewing the Alveolar Processes absorbed . ibid Cranium, shewing the beginning, obliteration of the Coronal, Sa- gittal, and lambdoidal Sutures . . . ibid Six Crania, different periods of life . . . ibid A Skull approaching to a Globular Form . . . ibid A young SkuU, beautifully white . . . ibid Various sections of Crania ..... ibid Five Bases of Skulls and Bones composing the Face . ibid Separate Bones of the Head. Ossa Frontis, Occipitis Temporum, Parietalia, Ethmbidea, Sphe- nbidea ...... ibid D Separate Bones of the Head. Ossa Nasi, Lacrymaba, Maxillaria Superiora, Pjilatina, Spongiosa Inferiora, Malarum, Vomer, hlaxillarc Inferius . ibid Structure and Diseases of Bones. Foetal Spine, shewing the Points of Ossification in the Vertebra:— Mr. J.yons. Mr. JV. S. Cox Foetal Skeleton, six months15 Foetal Skeleton, four months . . Mr, W. S. Cox Ditto ditto two ditto .... ibid Bones of the Foot beautifully injected . . . ibid The Tibia and Fibula, to shew Vascularity of Bone and Periosteum ibid Tibia, to shew Vascularity of Periosteum * . ibid Blood Vessels of the Os Parietale minutely injected . ibid Ditto ditto ditto . . ibid Portion of Bone to shew Vascularity and also the Medullary Artery of the Tibia .... ibid Three Foetal Ossa Femorum injected shewing the Epiphyses and Points of Ossification . , . . ibid Three Sections of the Tibia, to shew Vascularity of Cancelli ibid Patella, shewing the Artery in the Centre for the Formation of Bone ...... ibid Numerous Sections of Bone, to shew Cancelli . . ibid Diseases of Bones. A Cranium of a Female, Carious from Venereal Disease. The Bones of the Palate are completely destroyed, a very con- siderable portion of the right Parietal Bone exfoliated; the' pulsation of the Brain forced the Dura Mater against the edges of the Bone; it was destroyed by inflammation, and Fungus Cerebri followed . . , ibid Great destruction of the Frontal Bone from Scrofula—the Patient,. a Boy, aged 17, died from Abscess on the Lungs ibid A most extensive Fracture of the Cranium, followed by immediate death ...... ibid Tlie Cranium of a Syphilitic Patient, where the Disease was arrested ..... ibid Un-united Fractured Humerus. Non-union in the present instance arose fron the extremities of the Bone being so completely thrust past each other. Various attempts were made to produce union, by exciting the extremities of the Bone to take on what has been termed Ossific Inflammation—^but without success ..... Hid Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula. In this case the bones have been pretty accurately united . . , .. HidFracture of the Os Femoris. A specimen of 1)ctter Surgery than the Preparation on the Table. Tliere would, however, have been some shortening of the Limb . Mr. W. S. Cox Section of a Fractured Thigh Bone, well united , ibid Fractured Thigh Bone, the upper portion projecting forwards; there is also considerable deposition of ossific matter poste- riorly ...... ibid A beautiful specimen of diseased Hip-joint. The head of the Thigh Bone has been partly absorbed; the Acetabulum destroyed : the neck of the Thigh Bone was drawn upon the Ilium. The Patient was exhausted by irritation and in- flammation ..... ibid SeVen beautiful specimens of Exostoses, the eflects of Inflammation of Bone in the Horse. One in particular arose from a shot received in the Knee-joint, at the battle of Waterloo.— Presented to Mr. W. S. Cox by the late E. Palfrey, Es([. Five specimens of Caries affecting the Kmee-joint—Mr. JV. S. Cox Caries of the Tibia, with exfoliation Fractured Nasal Bones . , . Mr. Moore Fractured Carpal Bones . . . Mr. TV. S. Cox Three specimens of Sequestra, which have been brought away from Patients who have had Necrosis . . ibid A most beautiful specimen of Necrosis of the Os Femoris. A case of new Bone encloses the Sequestra, or portion of Bone which was about to exfoliate . Mr. E. T. Co:£ Three P’ractures through the neck of the Thigh Bone. In these cases, union took place through the medium of Fibro-carti- lage. The Patients were treated after the plan recom- mended by Sir A. Cooper, and were able to walk with a very slight degree of lameness . . Mr. TV. S. Cox Fracture through the Trochanter Major. In this case, also, nO ossific union took place . . . Md Re-united Fracture of the Clavicle . . . ihid Three specimens of Caries arising from SjqDhilis . . ibid Specimen of absoiqjtion of the Tibia, from the pressure of an aneurism ..... Five specimens of Inflammation of Bones, with deposits of ossific matter ......17 Stump of a Tibia and Fibula, after Amputation Mr. JV. S. Cox A most valuable specimen of Fracture of tlie Os Femoris, arising from Atrophia Ossium. In this case the Bone resembles a jnere sh?U, and fracture was produced solely by the action of the muscles .... Mr. Moore Interesting specimens of Enlarged Bones from interstitial deposition [_On the Table.~\ . . . Mr. W. S. Cox Fractured Os Femoris. Specimen of Bad Surgery ^On the Table~\ ibid A most remarkable specimen of Union of Fracture through the Trochanter Major by an extraordinay deposition of Ossific Blatter . . . . . . ibid Beautiful specimen of Exostosis of the Os Femoris, Caries and Ex- ostosis of the Tibia . . .' . ibid Of the Structure of .Joints. Patella and Ligament, shewing Vascularity . . ibid The Knee-joint with the Capsular Ligament, shewing their Vas- cularity ..... ibid The Knee-joint, to shew the Vessels round the Cartilages and Ligaments ...... ibid Knee-joint, shewing its extreme Vascularity . . ibid The Knee-joint, shewing the Bursse and Vascularity of the Cap- sular Ligament ..... ibid The Shoulder-joint of the Foetus minutely injected . ibid The Hip-joint of the Foetus most minutely injected . ibid The Knee-joint, shewing Vascularity . . , ihid A Section of the Os Humeri, shewing the Cancelli, the Capsular Ligament, and the Tendon of the Biceps Bluscle passing through' it, and attached to the Glenoid Cavity . ibid Two Sections of the Hip-joint, shewing the extent of the Capsular Ligament ..... ihid The Carpal Joint, shewing its structure and Connection with the Os Lunare and Blagnum . . . ihid An Adult Hand, shewing the lateral Ligaments of the Finger-joints ibid Ligaments of the Kndb-joint .... ibid C18 Ligaments of the Elbow and Shoulder-joints Mr. W. S. Cox The Tibio-Tarsal-joint, shewing its Structure and Connections ibid The Ligaments of the Spinal Column . . . ibid Ligaments and mode of Connection of the Ribs . . ibid MUSCULAR SYSTEai. Structure of Muscles. Preparation to illustrate the Structure of Tendon . The Gastrocnemius beautifully injected Tendo Achilles to shew its Vascularity Tendo Achilles and Gastrocnemii to exhibit Vascularity A beautiful specimen of Ossification of the Diaphragm . Ossific IMatter deposited in the centre of a Tendon ibid ibid ibid ibid ibid D The Skin—Organs of Touch. The Skin of the Foot most minutely injected The Skin of the Arm most minutely injected Fingers minutely injected with quicksilver Ditto ditto ditto . ibid Mr. Lyons Mr. W. S. Cox . ibid The Cuticle of the hand shewing its Porous Texture . ibid Portion from the Scrotum of a Black shewing the Cuticle, Rete, Mucosum and Cutis Vera . . . ibid Cuticle, Rete, Mucosum, Cutis Vera Fortune marked on the Cutis, from the Arm of a Sailor ibid Cuticle, Rete, Mucosum, and Cutis Vera, from the Arm of a Black The Skin of the Rattle-snake shewing the continuation of the Conjunctiva over the Cornea . . . ibid Organs of Smell. Schneider’s Membrane beautifully injected, and also that of the Teeth of a Foetus, seven months old; the enamel of the Incisors is formed .... ibid The Membrane investing Septum Narium, and Chambers of the Nose most beautifully injected . , Mr. Lyons19 A section of the Head of the Hare, shewing the extreme Vascu- larity of Schneider’s Membrane . Mr. W. S. Cox Of the Teeth. The lower Maxillary Bone laid open, to shew the course of the inferior Maxillary Artery .... liower Jaw, and investing Membrane of the Teeth, injected Inferior Maxillary Bone, at different periods of developement—ibid Blood-vessels of the Teeth of the Calf^ minutely injected ibid Sections of the Teeth of the Tiger, to shew the extent of the Enamel ..... ibid Superior Maxillary Bone, to shew the progress of the Adult Molares ...... ibid Superior MaxiUary Bone, to shew the reflection of the Periosteum ibid Superior Maxillary Bone to shew the Membranes investing the Alveolar Processes, and progress of developement of the Teeth ...... ibid Inferior Maxillary Bone, to shew the Capsules of the Teeth. Organs of Sight. A beautiful Preparation, in which a longitudinal section has been made to bring into view the following Tunics—Retina, Choroid, Iris, Sclerotic, and Cornea . . ibid A beautiful Specimen of the Tunica Sclerotica, very minutely injected, dried, and preserved in oil of turpentine— ibid A specimen of the Iris, minutely injected . . . ibid A Preparation of the Eye, in which the Coats may be distinctly seen—viz. the Sclerotic, Choroid, and Retina . ibid Transverse section of the Eye of an Ox, shewing the Tapetum—ibid Section of an Eye, shewing the Coats, Ciliary Ligament, and Lens ibid Preparation, in which the Tunica Sclerotica has been removed to shew the Tunica Choroides . . . ihid A fine Preparation of the Anatomy of the Contents of the Orbit, shewing IMuscles, Vessels, Nerves, &c.; bristles are intro- duced into the Puncta Lacrymalia . . ihid20 A Preparation of the Lacrymal Gland, injected with Quicksilver— Mr. IV. S. (.ox Vasculaiity of the IMenibrane lining the Palpebrse j bristles are introduced into the Puncta Lacrymalia . . ibid {^Remainder of Preparations illustrating the Organs of Sight, vide Table.-} [Orgaris of Hearing, vide Table.} Kidnies. Minutely injected Kidney, shewing the Cortical and Tubular Por- tions, and Papillae .... Mr. Lyons Injected Kidney, shewing the Papillae ending in the Pelvis— Mr. W. S. Cox IMinutely injected Kidney, shewing the Pelvis and Renal Vessels— ibid A most interesting preparation of the Kidney, the structure of which is morbidly changed. Pelvis filled by a very large Calculi ..... Mr. Jukes Kidney having double Ureters. In this case only one Kidney was found; there also existed a great peculiarity, the Uterus was found to be double . . Mr. Baynham Morbid Kidney ; structure of the organ destroyed ; great dilitation of the Ureter . . . Mr. W. S. Cox The other Kidney, diseased, from the same person . ibid Calculus (Oxalate of Lime) .... ibid Ditto ditto ..... ibid Ditto ditto from a Pig Mr. Grainger Calculi, found in the Pelvis of the Kidney Mr. Harris Lithic Acid Calculus Nucleus Oxalate of Lime Mr. JV. S. Cox Ditto ditto ditto ibid Ditto ditto ditto . . ibid Ditto ditto ditto . ibid Calculus (Amoniaco-magnesia Phosphates) . . ibid Lithic Acid Calculus ..... ibid Ditto ditto ...... ibid t Ditto ditto . . . Mr. Lucis, Stourbridge Calculus (mixed I*hosphates externally) . Mr. W. S. Cox21 Calculus (mixed Phosphates externally) . Mr. W. S. Cox Section of Calculus (Lithic Acid, principally) . • ^b^d Calculus (Lithic Acid, probably under the influence of Alkalies)— ibid Calculus (mixed Phosphates with Lithic Acid) . ibid Organs of Digestion, Respiration, and Circulation. Foetus, shewing the relative position of the Viscera and Liver, minutely injected . . . Mr. Lyons Foetus, beautifully injected, shewing the Vascularity of the Mucous hlembrane lining the Fauces, Pharynx, CEsophagus, and Stomach .... Mr. W. S. Cox Portion of Intestine, shewing Vascularity . . ibid Portion of Intestine, shewing valvulte Conniventes Mr. Lyons Portion of the Jejunum, shewing its Vascularity and Valvulee Mr. W. S. Cox Mr. Lyons Mr. W. S. Cox . ibid . . ibid . ibid Conniventes • Foetal Intestines, shewing Vascularity Foetal Stomach, minutely injected Foetal Intestines, minutely injected • . Three specimens of minutely injected Intestines A Stomach, injected .... Stomach, shewing the Pyloric Valve Stomach of the Turtle ..... ibid A Gall-bladder, minutely injected; the absorbents are filled with quicksilver; the chief Trunk is seen running over the Ductus Communis Choledochus . . ibid GaU-hladder, with its Ducts . . . . ibid Gall-bladder inverted, to shew its reticulated appearance ibid Gall-bladder and Pancreas, shewing their Ducts . ibid Pancreas, injected Abscess in the Coats of the CEsophagus, connected with diseased Vertebra^. No indication before death, which occurred in- stantaneously, as a consequence of the retention of a lump of meat above the Abscess . . Mr. Baynham Stricture in the CEsophagus. Death produced from a cherrv-stone lodging in the contracted portion of the tube . ibid22 Portions of the Aorta and Iliac Arteries Ossified Ulceration of the IMucous Membrane lining the Trachea-— Mr. Jukes Bronchial Glands, diseased . . Mr. Baynham Fistulous Aperture remaining after Cut Throat. Lived several months ..... ihid Tumor within the Duodenum . . Mr. W. S. Cox A beautiful specimen of Ulceration and abscess of the Rectum Mr. .Jukes Beautiful Preparation of Ulceration of the Intestine, Vessels minutely injected; removed from a Boy who died of Typhus Fever .... Mr. W. S. Cox An Intus-Susceptio in a Female who died of an Obstruction, In- flammation, and Mortification of the Bowels Mr. Lyons Ulcerated Intestine. The person died of Dysentery Mr. Jukes Intestine Burst by External Violence . Mr. Baynham Ulceration through the Intestine. Death from Typhus . ibid Three Specimens of Biliary Calculi . Mr. W. S. Cox A large Biliary Calculus ... Mr. Lucis Gall-bladder diseased. Gall-bladder contained upwards of two hundred Calculi . . . Mr. Baynham Stomach of Dr. Gall .... Mr. Jukes Stomach of A. E. who died from taking the Essential Oil of Bitter Almonds . . • Mr. TV. S. Cox Stomach of . Death produced by Sulph. Acid—Mr. Ashvin Bilston A thickened and schirrhous state of the Pylorus. Stomach was enormously enlarged , . . Mr. Bucknill Schirrhous state of all the Coats of the Stomach. Cavity almost entirely contracted . . . Mr. TV. S. Cox A large Schirrhous Tumor connected with the Stomach—Mr Jukes Diseases of the Heart and Arteries. Deficiency of Septum Auricularum. Patient, 17 years of age; complexion of a deep purple; capable of moderate exertion— Mr. Baynham Auriculo Ventricular Valves diseased . . ibid23 Mitral ValvBj ossified. .. . . Mr. Baynham Aneurism of Aorta bursting into the Trachea . . ibid Hypertrophy of the Heart, Ossification of the Semilunar Valves Mr. Bucknill, Nu?ieaion A Heart with the Pericardium, which is covered and lined with co- agulating Lymph, the consequence of Inflammation. The Pericardium much thickened^ the Internal Surface shewing a deposition of a yellowish pulpy Matter detached; varies in thickness, and appears like Lace-work. The Heart itself partakes of the same appearance from Inflammation as its immediate covering, the Pericardium Mr, Kiwivles Ossification of the Semilunar Valves . . Mr. Jukes Aneurism of the Carotid Artery . . . ibid Aneurism of the Aorta which destroyed life by Rupture into the Pericardium; the Sac nearly filled by the deposition of lay- ers of coagulated Lymph . . Mr. W. S. Cox Obliteration of the external Iliac Artery < . ibid PREPARATIONS CONNECTED WITH THE FCETUS, &c. G H Double Placenta, united by Membrane . Mr, Ingleby External and Internal parts of Generation, with the Rectum and Bladder ...... ihul Placenta and Funis injected, with the Membranes Stuffed Uterus injected, to shew its Vascularity at about the Fourth Day after Delivery ..... Uterus immediately after Delivery, stuffed and dried, with the Bladder and Rectum .... Uterus, Bladder and Rectum Placenta and Funis injected Uterus, Vagina, and Bladder injected to shew the Plexus of Ves- sels surrounding the Urethra Foetal Circulation, more particularly the Ducties Venosus Injected Placenta Funis, shewing the Sulci on its maternal sub- stance Hydrops Ovaria in an Ass, with the Ligamentura Latum &c.24 An enlarged Ovary, (2 sacs) . • Two Casts of Deformed Pelvis Two Foetal Heads, and a Foetal Skeleton . ^ Double Placenta .... A Pelvis ■A Pelvis, containing the Pelvic Viscera Four Skeletons and four Foetal Heads The Upper Extremity of a Child Pelvis of a Child . . ; . Bones of the internal Ear Head and Neck of a Skeleton of an immature Foetus Part of a Small Pelvis . : Several Bones of the Foetal Head . A Deformed Pelvis . ; . . A Pelvis Covered with Leather IModel of a Deformed Pelvis . . i Part of a Pelvis with Exostosis of the Sacrum Two exceedingly Deformed Pelves IModel of a Deformed Pelvis Lower Extremity of a Child Part of a Dried Foetus .... Part of a Deformed Pelvis A Pelvis and Pelvic Vicera Foetal Pelvis and two Adult Pelves Ossa Innominata ..... Three Pelves, with Ligaments Half a Pelvis, with Ligaments Four Pelves, with Ligaments A Cast of the Gravid Uterus. \_O71 the Tahlc~\ A Cast of the Gravid Uterus, with Foetus exposed, ditto A Cast of the Gravid Uterus, shewing the Placental connexion Mr. T. Taylor Mr. Inglcby . ibid . ibid i ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid ; ibid . ibid ibid , ibid ibid i ibid . ibid ibid ibid ibid . ibid ibid ibid ibid ibid . ibi^ ibid . ibid ibid H. L; ]\r. Organs of Re-production, and developement of the Foetus. The identical ruptured Uterus taken from a Patient who was attended by the late Dr. Blegborough. The case was pub-25 listed in the Medical and Physical Journal; the Bladder, Rectum, and contiguous Organs are preserved. The lace- ration is in the Cervix Uteri inferiorly and posteriorly— Mr. Inglehy A choice specimen of a Hymen, from a subject at the period of puberty ..... ibid The Uterus of a Lamb, with its appendages . . ibid Uterus in a state of Gangrene, take from a Woman who died a few days after delivery .... ibid Foetus of a Sheep, inclosed in its membranes . . ibid Human Foetus, at about the second month, suspended by the Funis, and shewing the Vesicula Alba . . ibid A portion of the Vagina of the Cow, exhibiting the Rug® Cervix and Os Uteri of the Cow, with a portion of the Vagina Cancer of the Os and Cervix Uteri A most beautiful Ovum unopened, at about a month after concep- tion, through the membranes of which the Emhryon is very distinctly seen, attached by its Funis Uterus, with its Appendages . . Mr. Knowles A most beautiful Ovum, the Amnion of which is divided, shewing the Emhryon about half the size of a bean, dependent from the Placenta by its Funis . . Mr. Ingleby An extremely beautiful view of the External Organs and Hymen admirably seen a posteriore . . . ibid A hlole, which was expelled a few hours after the delivery of a child at the ninth month .... ibid Steatomatous Tumours developed in the substance of the Uterus.— It was taken from a Woman who died from Apoplexy— Mr. Alfred Jukes A Foetus at about the third month, with the Funis encircling the neck ..... Mr. Butler An Ovum, at about seventy days; the membranes are slit open, and the Foetus is suspended by the Funis Mr. Jukes A portion of the Spine of a Child affected with Spina Bifida; the Integuments and Sac are laid open, shewing the Nerves— Mr. Ingleby An Ovum, shewing the Chorion, and a minute Emhryon may be seen attached to the Membranes, by the aid of a microscope D ibidA FoetuSj at about the tiiird month . . 3/^. Inglcby Foetus of a Sheep, enclosed in its membranes . , H/nl A Fcetus, at about tlie third month Mr. Evans, Stourbridge A Foetus at seventy-five days, shewing a coagulum of blood l>eHeath .... Mr. Wickenden Os Uteri and upper portion of the Vagina of the Sheep A Foetus under the third month . ^ . Mr. Butter An Abortion, shewing the Chorion and Vesicula Umbilicalis , . Mr. Ingleby A portion of the Ovary of a Cow, shewing Coqms Luteum A portion of the Tunica Decidua , . . iJjid A Foetal Heart, shewing the Foramen Ovale , . ibid The Ovary of the Cow, shewing the Corpora Lutea , ibid The external parts of Generation .... ibid An Abortion, in which the Ovum is very large; distinctly shewing the Spongy Chorion, and a minute Embryon connected by its Funis ..... ibid Foetus of a Sheep in its membranes . . . ibid A diseased Ovum, passed at the sixth month; the Uterus then closed, although it contained a Foetus, subsequently (about three months) expelled by decayed pieces . ibid An Abortion, at about the second month, shewing the Tunica De- cidua Reflexa, with the other membranes, the Vesicula Umbilicalis, and the Foetus suspended by its Funis ibid Cancer Uteri, having destroyed the Neck and a part of the Body of the Organ; the Bladder is also nearly destroyed by Ulcer- ation ..... Mr. Iiigleby False Conception ...... ibid The two Ossa Pubis, exemplifying their Cartilaginous Symphisis ibid A jMorbid Preparation of the Uterus, with its apjicndagcs, affected with Scrophulous Inflammation; the interior of the Organ appears suffused with Decidua; a quill is inserted in the Os Uteri ...... ibid A Foetus at the Third Month .... ibid A fine Example of the whole of the internal Female Organs; the interior of the Uterus is exposed by a longitudinal incision shewing the openings of the Fallopian Tubes, into which27 Bristles, are introduced; the penniforra Rugae are also seen, as well as the Os Uteri and latteral rugae of the Vagina, the ligamenta rotunda Uteri and of the Ovaria; on the posterior surface of which last mentioned Organs there are feint traces of the Ovula Graaffiana, the Fallopian Tubes and Fimbriae are all displayed, with a portion of the Bladder; the Ureters also and their terminations are very obvious, also the orifice of the Urethra, through which a quill is passed-—ilfr. Inglehy A diseased Ovary ..... ihid The Uterus and appendages of a Sheep . . . ibid Diseased Ovum laid open, displaying a Vesicular or Hydatid state of its interior ..... ibid A very distinct specimen of Cancer Uteri, in which two-thirds of the organ from its orifice towards its Fundus are destroyed by the Depascent Ulceration, the Ureters are seen very much enlarged and injected, also one of the Spermatic Arteries, the Ovaria, Fimbriae and Fallopian Tubes are well displayed, a great portion of the Bladder is also destroyed . ibid An Erabrj'o at an early period still adherent to the Amnios Cervix Uteri of the Cow filled with a Mucous Plug Mr. Inglehy Preparation exhibiting the structure of the Cervix Uteri of the Cow Abortion, shewing the lobulated structure of the Placenta. The Vesicula alba connected to the Funis Umbilicalis. The Em- Mr. Knowles ibid bryo as large as a horse bean Ovarium of the Cow shewing a Corpus Luteum Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes of the Sow Uterus of the Infant with its appendages Dropsy of the Fallopian Tubes (small) A portion of Decidua A Foetus at about the sixth week Foetal Kidney shewing its lobulated state A Foetus at about the fourth month A Foetus at about seventy-five days Mr, Middlemore . Mr. Ingleby . ibid Mr. Best Mr. Ingleby ibid ibid ibid ibid A Uterus laid- open and exhibiting three small but very distinct Polypi A Foetus at the third month . ibid Mr. Edwards28 A Wlielp enclosed in its IMembranes . . Mr. Inglehy An imperforate Anus ..... Hid An Ovarium shewing the Vesicula Graaffiana, externally and internally ...... ihid A Foetus at about seventy-five days . . . Hid Ovarium of a Cow with an abscess in its centre . . Hid The Uterus, Vagina and Bladder of a Foetus . . Hid A Whelp and its membranes .... Hid External Genital Organs of the Female Infant . Hid An Ovarium shewing a Corpus Luteum . . . Hid A portion of the Liver of a Gin-drinker . . Hid An Ovum and Decidua at the sixth or seventh week— Mr. Wickenden A choice specimen of an Ovum laid open for the purpose of shewing a very minute Embryon, scarcely exceeding the size of a pin’s head; the Vesicula Alba is very distinct Mr. Ingleby An Ovum containing two distinct Foetuses; one considerably larger than the other; the period is about three weeks or a month; the Ovum is unopened but exhibiting clear indications of the Spongy Chorion An Ovary, shewing the Cavity before the formation of a Cicatrix— Mr. Ingleby A Whelp enveloped in its membranes . . Hid An Ovum, shewing the vessels of the Chorion and Embryo—the extremities being mere sprouts: it shews, also, the Funis Umbilicalis ..... ibid A Foetal Pelvis ..... ibid Uterus, Bladder, and Vagina of an Adult; the latter laid open to shew its structure . . . Mr. F. Jukes A Tuberculated Uterus .... Mr. Hodgson Uterus laid open, shewing its structure . Mr. Ingleby The Uterus, four days after delivery. The Patient died of an affection of the Lungs . . . Mr. Shipton A Placenta and IMembranes . . . Mr. Ingleby A Foetal Heart, Lungs, and Tliymous Gland . . ibid A portion of Decidua . .... ibid A Foetus, at seventy-five days29 The Foetus, with Placenta, found in the Abdomen in a case of ruptured Uterus Cvide No. IJ . . Mr, Inglehy The Uterus, one month after Abortion. The Patient died of Pere- tonitis ...... ibid The hlembranes of a Cat .... ibid A portion of retained Placenta, which was passed after several violent Hemorrhages . . . ibid Placenta of a Cat A Kitten enveloped in its Membranes, and attached to the Placenta by the Funis . . . . . ibid Enlargement of the Pelvis of the Kidney and Ureter— Mr Elhington An Ovum, without the Embryo, shewing great extravasation be- tween the membranes . . .Mr. Evans Uteri of Sheep, shewing the Placental Situation Tuberculated state of the Mesentery, corresponding with the case of Tuberculated Uterus . . . Mr. Hodgson Uterus of a Woman, who died ten or twelve days after deliveiy, apparently from Puerperal Fever; it contained a quantity of liquid blood .... Mr. Ingleby Foetal Heart, shewing the Ductus Arteriosus, between which and the ascending Aorta a piece of lead is placed: the Lungs are seen with the Pulmonary Arteries . Mr. A. Jukes The Gravid Uterus, from sixth to seventh month—Mr. T. Taylor The entire Ovum, at the seventh month . Mr. Hcalh A Fibrous Tumour, passed from a Female, supposed to be unim- pregnated, after three months hemorrhage—Mr. T. Taylor The Uterus of a Woman who died the day after delivery, shewing the Placental attachment . . Mr. Bellamy Membrane passed in Dysmenorrhoea . Mr. Ingleby Diseased Ovum, without an Embryo . . . ibid Ovum, shewing the Decidua Reflexa . . . ibid Injected Placenta, in Spirit .... ibid A fine Preparation of a gravid Uterus, containing a Foetus at about eight months of Utero-gestation j the membranes are open to shew the Foetus in a natural presentation; a longitudinal section of the Vagina has been made for the purpose of exhibiting an interesting view of the Os Uteri, somewhat30 dilated, but occupied by the gelatinous secretion from the Glandulffi Nabotlii. The FaUopian Tubes, Fimbria?, and Ovaria are also well seen, the latter being divided. The whole is well injected Foetus, at eight months, shewing the Testes in the internal ring, .... Mr. Ingleby Remarkably fine and large Ovum, unopened, at about six or seven weeks, shewing Chorion-Foetus, Vesicula, Umbilicalis, &c Mr. Edwards Uterus, shewing openings of the Fallopian Tubes Mr. Ingleby Ruptured Placenta of a Cat. The animal died from internal hemorrhage ■ ... Mr. Hodgson Placenta and Membranes from the same Cat, Encysted Tumour from the Labium Pudendi Mr. ElJcington Calculi in the IMesenteric Gland, from an elderly person— Mr. Wickendai Diseased Placenta of the grape kind, large, but the Foetus very minute and attached by a Filament. The Patient endured Hemorrhage for many months . . Mr. Ingleby A Fojtus and Placenta attached by the Funis, about the fourth month .... Mr. Hodgson Uterus wuth a portion of Placenta, organised and adherent— Air. Ingleby Cauliflower excresence of the Uterus . . Air. Hodgson Foetus at about fourth month Foetus (twin) at about ten weeks Os Uteri excised (Mrs. Barrs) Fungoid growth of Os Uteri, removed from I\Irs. Bostock Uterus with a peculiar formation of the Os, having a Tumour growing from near the origin of the Fallopian Tube— AI. Hodgson Tumour from Os Sacrum which materially impeded labour— Air. Elkington Uterus of the late Sirs. Bostock, from which the Cervix had been previously excised . . . Air. Ingleby The Heart and Lungs of a Foetus . . . ibid Virgin Uterus shewing the mode in which the Os Uteri dips into the Vagina31 Au Ovarian Cyst ..... Mr. Inglehy A Fallopian Pregnancy; tlie patient died from internal Hemorr- hage ; the Foetus is very distinctly seen in the Tube: the hlembraneSj Vesicula Alba, and small Filiament proceeding from it. .... Mr. Bellamy Twin Abortion at about seven or eight we.elcs unopened^ very per- fect—Foetus is seen through the Membranes Mr. Inglehy Ovarium in a very diseased state^ exhibiting on being opened^ a -very Vesicular appearance in some parts of it— JMt. Jones, Clcohury Morthner Uterus, opened by an incision from the Fundus; the walls are very thick; Cancer of the Cervix and Bladder laid open by the same disease . . . Mr. El/cington Tuberculated state of the Uterine Peritoneum. The disease affected the Peritoneum generally. The Subject of it was, dui'ing life, supposed to be pregnant . Mr. George Taylor Polypus Uteri, renewed by Ligature . . Mr. Hodgson Uterus and. Ovarum laid open; the Ovarium shews a Corpus Lu- teum very well . . . . Mr. Inglehy Cancer of the Cervix Uteri; Bladder diseased; the body was re- markably extenuated. N. B.—No disease of the other parts ihid Uterus laid open of a Girl who drowned herself, it is believed, under great mental excitement, occasioned by a breach of promise of marriage. The inner surface was very red: it now displays a degree of Vascularity . . ihid Virgin Uterus, shewing the os internum very well . . ihid Abscess in the Posterior part of the Ovarium, proving fatal by in- ducing Constipation and symptoms of Introsusception or Strangulation—(see case) . . . ihid Twin Ovum laid open ; Foetus seen adhei'ent by its Funis; it shews Amnion and Chorion very admirably . . ibid Portion of Membrane passed Dysmenorrhcea The Rectum terminating in a Cul de Sac; the puncture with the Trocar distinctly seen, and also an aperture some distance higher up occasioned by Ulceration: this led the Feeces to escape into the Abdominal Cavity and produced death ibid32 Uterus of a Woman who died from irritative Fever in consequence of a portion of retained Placenta, the remains of it visible ibid Lacerated Uterus at the Cervix . . . ibid Ovarium enlarged, and Cyst; the Vesicular structure very well dis- played ..... Mr. Wickenden C Abortion; on opening it Dicidua Reflexa was found full of blood— Mr. Ingleby Large Polypus Uteri, removed by operation Mr. Hodgson Uterus after delivery, shewing pieces of Placenta adherent at the Fundus. The Patient died after Hemorrhage and much pain ..... Mr. Satinders Diseased Ovum ..... Mr. Ingleby Twin Foetus, at about six weeks, shewing the commencement of the Intestinal Canal . . . Mr. Knowles I Organs of Respiration and Circulation. An interesting specimen of the Lungs of the Turtle ; the ramifica- tions of the Brochial Tubes and their termination in the Air Cells are beautifully marked. The IMucous Membrane has been minutely injected with fine injection—Mr. W. S. Cox Preparations illustrating the structure of the Laiy^nx . ibid Preparation of the Os Hyoides, aU the Cartilages of the Larynx being attached by their respective Ligaments . ibid Preparation of a small Leucodendron, or Coagulated Lymph, coughed up from the Lungs . . • ^bid Preparation of Morbid Larynx. It is cut open to shew extensive Ulceration of the IMucous Membrane. Case,—Chronic Bronchitis .... Mr. Jukes Preparation of Cynanche Trachealis, or Croup. The Glottis was closed by an adventitious membrane, from recently secreted coagulable Lymph; and death produced—Mr. IV. S. Cox Interesting example of diseased Bronchial Glands. A communica-33 tlon existed between the Trachea and (Esophagus some weeks before .... Mr. Baynham A Preparation of the Larynx, shewing the formation of an adveri- titious Membrane. In this case also a Large Abscess exi isted between the Larynx and Pharynx; Ulceration into the former took place, and death ensued . Mr. W. S. Cox Heart shewing Valvula Mitralis and Columnfe Carneoe Aorta, shewing the three Semilunar Valves, Corpuscula Sesamoidea Pulmonary Artery inverted, shewing its Valves MeduUa Spinahs, shewing the Nerves passing oflF, the fonnation of Ganglia by the Posterior Filaments and their re-union afterwards with the Anterior, thus constituting a Nervous Trunk, endowed with Sensation and "^’’oluntary Motion Medulla Spinalis, shewing its coverings and Ligamentum Denticu- latum .... Mr. JV.- S. Coai Preparation to shew the Lumbar Nerves as they pass out from the Spinal Marrow, also the Sacral Nerves . . ibid Nerves of the lower extremity of a Foetus ; the Course of the Gi’eat Sciatic Nerve, and its branches are carefully traced ibid A Large Cyst containing Pus from the middle Lobe of the Right Hemisphere of a Man 45 years of age ; he had been indis- posed about six weeks, and for the last month laboured under Paralysis of the Left Side . . . ibid Preparation of the Nerves of a Stump, shewing the bulbous expan- sion of their extremities Preparation of the Nerves of the Fore Arm after Amputation, exhibiting the same appearance Strumous Tumor beneath the Tentorium . Mr. Baynham 1. ■ Orgaiis of Reproduction^ Beautiful Specimen of Testis minutely injected with mercury, alsu, the Spermatic Vessels . . Mr. W. S. Cox Testis the Vas Deferens and Epididymis minutely injected with mercury, the Spermatic Vein injected with red wax ibid Testes in the Loins of a Foetus of seven months, it also shows the Gubernaculum Testis • . . , D34 Testes of a Sparrow during the Winter, representing small specks Mr. W. S. Cox Testes of a Sparrow during the Spring, increased to the size of peas Preparation in wliich the whole of the Epididymis and Vas Deferens have been carefully injected with Mercury, as also the Vasa Efferentia, Rete and Tubuli Testis . . ihid A part of the Bladder in the Foetus to shew the Vasa Deferentia into which Bristles are introduced as well as into the Ureters, with the Vesiculae Seminales filled with mercury . ibid Testes to shew the Tunica Vaginalis, Testis, and Tunica Vaginalis reflexa ...... ibid Testis to shew the course and situation of the Epididymis ibid Bladder, Prostate Gland, Vesiculae Seminales, Membraneous portion of the Urethra, and Cowper’s Glands . . ibid Corpus Spongiosum Urethrie, and Gians Penis injected, shewing the Plexus of Veins of which those bodies are composed, the Bulb of the Urethra is also well injected, the middle of the Corpus Spongiosum having been open for the purpose of introducing an injecting-pipe. The Prostate Gland and its Ducts, the Vesiculae Seminales, and Vasa Deferentia are injected with mercury, as well as some Vessels in the interior of the Bladder ..... ibid Fungus Haematodes of the Testis A Chimney-sweepers’ Cancer Scroti, beginning in the integuments and in its progress affecting the Testis A Testis with Calcareous Matter deposited in the Epididymis Interesting Specimen of diseased and very much enlarged Prostate Gland, the middle Lobe being dissected and particularly obvious. The membranous portion of the Urethra and Bulb may be very distinctly seen as well as the Caput Gallinaginis Mr. W. S. Cox Syphilitic Warts removed from the Labia Pudendi of a Female ibid Enormous enlargement of the third Lobe of the Prostate Gland three Calculi were found in the Bladder. IMale Subject Aged 71 ... . Mr. Baynham ection of the Penis to shew the Septum of the Corpora Cavernosa Mr. W. S. Cox35 Section of the Penis to shew the interior structure—Mr. W. S. Cox Section of the Penis preserved in Oil of Turpentine, to shew the structure of the Corpora Cavernosa . . ibid Four Preparations of the Corpora Spongiosa, Corpora Cavernosa, Urethrae and Bulb distended with Wax . ibid Vesiculae Seminales of the Elephant * • • ibid An Adult Uterus ..... ibid A Virgin Uterus . . • . • ibid Uterus studded with small Fibro Cartilaginous Tumours and presenting two large Osseus Tumors, externally ibid Double Uterus removed from the Female in whom a single Kidney with two Ureters was discovered . Mr. Baynham A singular case of enlarged Ovary, containing hair and two teeth— Mr. W. S. Cox Fallopian Tube Ruptured by Ovum. Fatal in twelve hours from Haemorrhage into the Cavity of the Abdomen— Mr. Bay7iham A large Lymphatic Vessel injected, with its Gland in Spirits— Mr. W. S. Cox One of the Cornua Uteri, whose Arteries, Veins, and Lymphatics are injected with mercury . . . ihid Adult Uterus not developed. Aged 40. Never menstruated. No developement of the Mammae . . . ibid K & N VASCULAR SYSTEM. The Arterial and Venous System of the Lower Extremity, injected ' ibid The Arterial and Venous System of the Upper Extremity, minutely injected ..... ibid The course and distribution of the Arteries of the Upper Extre- mity ibid Three Preparations, shewing the varieties in the course and distri- bution of the Brachial Artery . . . md36 Arteries of the Lower Extremities, injected Mr. W. S. Cox Little Subject, exhibiting the distribution of the Arterial System ibid Little Subject, exhibiting the distribution of the Arterial and Venous System .... ibid Ditto . ditto . about ten years, for the Arteries—ibid Section of .the Cranium, jshewing the Vascularity of the Dura Mater . . ... . . . ibid Section of the Head, shewing the distribution of the Arteries—ibid Section of the Head, shewing the lateral process of the Dura Ala- ter, and the Arterial Circle formed at the base of the Brain, (^Circle of Willis) .... ibid Blale Pelvis, shewing the course of the Iliac Arteries and Veins— ibid Section of the IMale Pelvis, to shew the distribution of the Branches of the Internal Iliac .... ibid Section of the Male Pelvis, exhibiting the distribution of the Inter- nal Pudic Artery; also the course of the Vena Magna Ipsius Penis. The Plexuses of Veins distributed over the Prostate Gland are well seen, and the extent of the Perito- neum on the Bladder and Rectum . . ibid Preparation, exhibiting the Blood Vessels of the Heart, Vena Azygos, and also the course and termination of the Thoracic Duct ...... ibid Preparations of the Vessels arising from the Arch of the Aort—ibid Vascularity of the Intestines .... ibid Several Hearts, injected with wax .... ibid Disease in the Vertebra?. The singulaiity of the case rests upon the fact of so much disease existing in the Spinal Column without perceptible inconvenience . Mr. Baynham Numerous points of Ulceration in the Stomach of a Woman who died from Strangulated Hernia . . . ibid Several Preparations of various Tumours A Cyst of a large Abdominal Hydatic, most probably of the Liver Mr. Jukes Secreting Membrane from a IMammary Abscess . ibid37 Mr. IV. S. Cox Preparations of Morbid Structures . Mr. Juices Diseased Spine; total destruction of the body of more than one Vertebra ..... ibid Diseased Spine; Absorption of the bodies of two Vertebrae— Mr. Lyons The Human Heart injected, shewing the course of the Subclavian Veins, the Ascending and Descending Cava, Pulmonary Artery, Aorta, Pulmonary Veins, Vena Azygos, and Tho- racic Duct .... Mr. E. T. Cox The Human Heart injected, and also the Blood Vessels of the Lungs. The relative position of the Pulmonary Arteries and Veins is well shewn . . Mr. W. S. Cox \ Preparation of the Head and Neck, shewing the Course of the fifth, seventh, and eighth pair of Nerves. The Supra Orbi- tar. Infra Orbitar^ and Mental Filaments are beautifully seen; also the Temporo-facial and Cervico-facial Filaments. In the Neck are shewn the Glosso-pharyngeal, Pharyngeal, and Superior Laryngeal Nerves, the Great Sympathetic and Phrenic Nerves .... ibid Section of the Head and Neck, shewing the Branches of the Ex- ternal Carotid and Subclavian Arteries Mr. Edmardes Section of the Head and Neck, shewing the Veins and Arteries distributed to the Face and Neck; the formation of the External and Internal Jugular ’^’^eins Mr. W. S. Cox Preparation of the Human Heart and Lungs, injected with Wax— ibid Preparation of the Circulation in the Turtle . . ibid The Heart and Vessels of the Cat, fiUed with Wax . ibid Preparation, shewing the Foetal Circulation . . ibid A portion of the small Intestines, shewing the mode of division of the Branches of the Superior Mesenteric Artery ibid Preparation, consisting of Incarceration of the inferior portion of the Intestinum Ileum, produced in consequence of a Volvulus ibid On the Left-Hand Table. Illustration of bad Surgery in the case of Fractured Os Femoris—38 Beautiful Preparation of Ossa Femoruin, shewing Interstitial De- position .... Mr. W. S. Cox Almost, perhaps, unique case of transposition of the Adult Human Heart into the right side of the Thorax, produced by an enormous Vomica, occupying the whole of the left Lung. Upwards of two gallons of pus were found in the Abscess ibid Preparation in wax of the hlusdes of the Tongue and Larynx— situation of the Thyroid Gland . . School Foetal Heart, injected, shewing distinctly the Umbilical Vein and Arteries, the Ductus Venosus et Arteriosus—Mr. W. S. Cox Muscles of the Perineum in wax, to shew the Ereccor Penis, Accelerator Urinae^ Transversalis Perinci, Transversalis Perinei Alter, Sphincter et Levator Ani . School The Ramifications of the Vena Portae of the Liver, beautifully shewn .... Mr. W. S. Cox Preparation in Wax, illustrating the parts of Femoral Hernia.— Poupart’s Ligament, Gimbemat’s Ligament, and the Femoral Sheath, with its contents are well shewn . School Uterus after Parturition, with the ovary containing a Corpus Luteum A magnificent Preparation in Wax, of the side-views of the Male Pelvis. The relative position of the Bulb, membranous position of the Urethra, Prostate Gland, Vesiculse Semi- nalis, are correctly marked out; also the reflexions of the Peritoneum. The course of the Rectum and muscles of the Perineum are beautifully shewn On the Right-Hand Table. Cerebellum, Valve of Vieussens, Corpora Quadrigemina, Pineal Gland, Optic Thalami, Corpora Striata—Mr. W. S. Cox Section of the Cerebellum, shewing fourth Ventricle, and commu- nications with the third. Calamus Scriptorius ibid Profile section of the Cerebrum and Cerebellum . . ibid Section of the Brain, shewing the Coiqiora Striata, Choroid Plexus, T'lcnia Semicircularis, Optic Thalami, Corpora Quadrige- mina, Pineal Gland, Velum Interpositum, Hippocampus39 Major, Tffinia Hippocampi, Corpus Dentatum, Pes Hippo- campi .... Mr. JV. S. Cox Horizontal Section of the Brain, to shew the Corpus Callosum, Raphe, Lineae Transverse, Centrum Ovale. The Corpus Callosum lifts up, an'd shews the contents of the lateral Ventricles. The Fornix removes, and shews the Commis- sures, the Foramen Commune anterius et posterius; the contents of the anterior, middle and posterior Cornua are also shewn. ..... ibid Base of the Brain, with the .origin of the Nerves. First pair, des- tined to excite perception of Smell; 2nd pair, destined to excite impression of light; 3rd pair, hlotory Nerves of the Eye; 4th pair. Respiratory Nerves of the Eye; 5th pair, universal Nerves of Sensation of the Head, Face, Cavities of the Nose, Mouth, and Tongue; 6th pair, hlotory Nerves of the Eye ; 7th pair. Respiratory Nerves of the Face; 8th pair, destined to excite impressions of Sound; 9th pair. Respiratory Nerves to the Tongue and Pharynx; 10th pair. Respiratory Nerves to the Heart, Lungs, and Stomach; 11th pair. Respiratory Nerves to the Neck and Shoulders; 12th pair, Motory Ners^es to the Tongue . . ibid Beautiful Preparation, exhibiting the distribution of the Great Sympathetic Nerves, or Nerves of Organic Life. The honour of pointing out the function of this important Sys- tem is due to Dr. James Johnstone, though assumed by the French Physiologist, Bichat. By means of this System, the functions of Respiration, Circulation, Digestion, &c. are carried on, independent of the will. It shews, also, the course and branches of the par Vagum and Phrenic Nerves, the Splanchnic Branches and Ganglia Semilunaria ibid Beautiful Preparation of the Messentery and Intestine of the Turtle, richly covered with Lacteals, injected with Mercury ORGANS OP HEARING. The left Ear of a Child, six years old, of three times the natural size, the external ear, the Memhrana Tympani, with the Bones and Muscles belonging to it, the Eustachian Tube,40 course of the Portio Dura of the seventh pair of Nerves Chorda Tynipanij Fallopian Duct . Mr. W. S. Cox Cochlea and Semicircular Canals laid open, the former turned upwards, the latter downwards . . {}}id The same from the opposite side, with the Arteria Auditoria Interna ..... ihid The Facial and Auditory Nerve, with its branches in the vestibule, with the involving semicircular canals . ibid The Cochlea, Vestibule, and semicircular Canals laid open ihid The same preparation with the inner Membranes and Bags, and the distribution of the Auditory Nerve in the Cochlea ibid A beautiful specimen of an Adult Temporal Bone, shewing particu- larly the Cavitas Tympani and semicircular Canals ; Bristles are introduced into the passages of the Chorda Tympani, and Accoustic Nerves .... ibid Preparation, to shew the Semicircular Canals and Cochlea— Mr Kimberley A case containing the Anatomy of the Bony Structure of the Ear ibid Preparation, illustrating the Semicircular Canals, the Mastoid Cells and Eustachian Tube * . . . ibid Three Preparations, illustrating the Anatomy of the Vestibule, Semicircular Canals, Cochlea and Tympanum . ibid ORGANS OF SIGHT The Choroid Coat, with the CiUiary Nerves and the Iris— Mr. W. S. Cox Retina with Zonula Zinii and the Lens . . ibid A Profile Section of the Eye tlirough the Centre of the Lens and the Optic Nerve, shewing the Coats of the Eye, the Cham- bers of the Eye, Arteria, Centralis, Retina?, &c. . ibid The Anterior half of a perpendicular Section to shew the situation of the Lens, Iris, CiUiary Striae and Processes . ibid Posterior half of the same exhibits the Foramen Centrale of Soem- merring ..... ibid The fourth part of the Anterior half of the Pupil highly magnified to show the position of the Membranes > . ibidCABINET OF MINERALS. Mr, Woolrich. Quartz Crystals IMilk Quartz, with Copper Pyrites Varieties of Quartz Nodules of Flint Capt. Quartz, Devonshire Varieties of Quartz Chalcedony hlammellated Chalcedony Eg)T)tian Pebbles Rock Crystal Three fine specimens of Quartz Crystals Actinolite in Mica Schorl in Quartz, Cornwall Mica Asbestos Opal on Quartz Agate Steatite, Cornwall Micaceous Schistus Stalactite of Carbonate of Lime Crystals of Carbonate of Lime and Sulphuret of Copper Crystals of Carbonate of Lime Stalagmites of Carbonate of Lime Gibraltar Rock, with Bones imbedded Crystals of Cai’bonatc of Lime and Fluor Spar Crystals of Carbonate of Lime, Copper P3nrites, and Blende Crystals of Carbonate of Lime, Iron Pyrites, and Sulphuret of Lead Varieties of Fluor Spar Lime Stone, with Crystal of Carbonate of Lime, & Shells Crystals of Fluor Spar, Blende, and Carbonate of Lime Fluor Spar and Blende Varieties of Marble Iceland Spar Satin Spar, Carbonate of Lime Varieties of Gypsum Selenite Sulphate of Baryta Carbonate of Baryta Carbonate of Lime, with Sul- phuret of Lead Galena Galena with Sulphate of Baryta, and Fluor Spar Galena with Blende, Sulphate of Baryta, and Iron Pyrites Phosphate of Lead Sulphate of Lead Sulphate of Lead in Fluor Spar Silver Lead Ore Blende, Fluor Spar, and Sul- phate of Baryta E42 Native Copper Sulphuret of Copper Arseniate of Copper Phosphate of Copper Peacock Copper Ore Sulphuret of Copper Crystals of Sulphuret of Cop- per on Carbonate of Lime Mammellated Copper Ore Sulphuret of Copper with Green Carbonate Native Copper Grey Copper Ore Sulphuret of Copper & Quartz Sulphuret of Copper and Crys- tals of Carbonate of Lime Flour Spar and Blende Calamine Crystals of Blende and Fluor Spar Calamine from Devonshire Black Oxide of Manganese, from Warwickshire Mammellated Black Oxide of Manganese Crystals of Sulphuret of Cop- per, and Carbonate of Lime Mundick and Cax’bonate of Lime Mundick, Carbonate of Lime and Galena Iron Pyrites Crystals of Iron Pyrites, and Carbonate of Lime Haematite, or Oxide of Iron, Lancashire Magnetic Iron Ore Haematite, with the impression of a Reed Iron Ore, Staffordshire Plumbago Argillaceous Iron Ore, with Hatchetine, near Wolver- hampton Spathose Iron Ore Iron Ore from Elba Chromate of Iron Vegetable Impressions on Iron- stone Petrified Wood Jasperized Wood Coralloid, Bristol Dudley Lime-stone with Fossil Shells, Corals, &c. Dudley Locust Cornu Ammonis Fossil Shells Native Sulphur Cannel Coal Jet Staffordshire Coal Bovey Coal Lava, Vesuvius Pitch-stone Pudding-stone Basalt, Rowley Granite, Scotland Serpentine, Cornwall Micaceous Schist Quartz Rock PrchniteCASTS. Head of the late R. B. Sheridan^ Esq. ■ Edward Grainger ■ Michael Ford . • an Indiot Cranium of Bellingham ■ Baskerville - Raphael ■ a Hindoo Mask of Lord Bacon ■■■' ■■■... George Bidder — Haydn The Foot The Hand Muscular Subject, &c. Mr Knowles . ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid , ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid . ibid Two extraordinary Foetal Monsters . Mr. Paget, Walsall Skeleton of the Horse . . . . P. Wihnot, Esq. Numerous Preparations of Diseases of the Osseous System in the Horse . . . Late E, Palfrey, Esq. Numerous Preparations of Natural History* . y ij'il * '.U. u\i't K'.’A U.'! .' ):av ^ : *. '., :t V Vt . . Kv V Vt . -.t*:'^r '.JI iJiil hi ;'17.1 ’t'Al 'i> ii '.r.iiiii'j u I :vv‘ O0f;>^ J. f }5i: ■-: T.”-'*! ;:r>.0 j-r j.T£ \.i ■'fT ,v.‘. .v^A ,\®niva .'1 . •; ; ;:{ M»*>t.Wi V.. .1..A ^■ .,'.-*T. .A t,. ' i -i *-. tv.', rj' 'I r.-..*'. .*T v:;;* -; :j i6 iJ2i, ;. '-i -T-tt -*v.II iVtiivV; V: 'u?ii>-i-'‘ACATALOGUE OP THE BOOKS BELONGING TO THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE»■* i I y> .1 i^jJ .' il 0 O a 3 ! L T ’ u r * . . X, '■ \. <■» r-:" cr.:r ^ ♦ - . » • .».. • .[i^iioiaai^ io aooH.Oc. 'Mr*! Ax-;iBOOKS PRESENTED. E. Johnstone, M. D. Brande’s Journal of the Royal Institution R. Pearson, M. D. Smith’s English Flora, 4 vols. Smith’s Grammar of Botany, 1 voL J. Eccles, M. D. Sharp’s Treatise on the Operations of Surgery, 2 vols. Critical Enquiry into the present state of Surgery Nisbet’s Clinical Guide, 3 vols. Cheselden’s Anatomy Cheyne on the Natural Method of Curing the Diseases of the Body Berdoe’s Enquiry Saunder’s Lecture Pearson’s Thesaurus hledicaminum Cullen’s Practice of Physic Aitken’s Practice of Physic Wilson’s Pharmacopoeia BeU, on Wounds Mr. W. S. Cox. Abernethy’s Essays — Physiological Lectures -— Surgical Observations Burn’s Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck4 Bfll’s Treatise on Gonorrhoea, 2 vok IMajcndie's Physiology School of hledicine, 4 vols. hlonro's Anatomy, 3 vols. Richerand's Physiology Anatomical Description of the Arteiies Mn. Ingleby. Barclay, on Muscular Motion Hofiman’s Practice of Medicine Fordyce on the Digestion of Foods Carter’s Account of the various Systems of Medicine Simpson de re IMedica Dickenson on Fever Sanders on Small Pox Heberden on the History and Cure of Diseases Johnson on Gravel Young on Cancer Fordyce on Fever Barclay’s Nomenclature Hamilton’s Select Cases of hlidwifery Herdman on Animal Life Maclean’s Science of Life Kentish on Bums Dickenson on Burns Foster on Atmospheric Influence Thomas’s Practice of Physic Charlton’s Enquiry into Human Nature Dji. Biut Davies. Anatomico-cliirurgical Views of the Nose, IMouth, Larj^nx, and Fauces, by W. Lawrence - Dr. Percival’s IVIedical Ethics Chaussier’s Medicine Legaleo Mr. Knowles. Kerkland on Child-bed Fever Armstrong on Child-bed Fever BHzard’s Suggestions for the Improvements of Hospitals Cooper’s First Lines of Surgery Walker on Nervous Diseases Duncan’s Clinical Reports Burn’s Midwifery Heherden’s History of Diseases hledical Sketches Traite Pratique des Maladies Graves ]Mr. J. Woolrich. Watkin’s Electro-magnetism Accum’s Chemical Tests Singer’s Elements of Electricity lire’s Dictionary of Chemistry CuUen’s Physical and Chemical Essays Accum’s Chemical Amusements Mr. Edwardes, (Wolverhampton.) Good’s Book of Nature, 3 vols. ]\Ir. Moore, (Morelon-in~Marsh.) Sir A. Cooper’s Lectures on Surgery, 3 vols. Mr. George Elkington] Hunter’s Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds.Mn. Ckcix*. Wallis on Gout. Solomon de Cerebri Tmnoribus De Cynanche Traclieali IMk. Dones. Hunter on Venereal Disease Pugh on Muscular Action Walters’ Plates of the Thoracic and Abdominal Nerves Brisson’s Principles of Chemistry BIh. Northall. Gregory’s Economy of Nature Nicholson’s Chemical Dictionary Natural Philosophy Blackenzie on Health Bln. Betts. Duncan’s Blateria Bledica Bin. Bindley. Buchan’s Symptomatology Parkes’s Chemical Catechism Higginbottom on Lunar Caustic Bln. Palmer. Rhind on Worms Stratford’s Blanual of the Anatomy and Diseases of the Eye Blacknish on Drunkenness7 Mr. Hutchinson. Hutchinson’s Surgical Observations Edwardes’s hlanual of Surgeiy IMr. Clarke. Erande’s Manual of Pharmacy Mr. Richards. lire’s Dictionary of Chemistry Mr. Lloyd. Bell’s System of Surgery, 7 vols. Mr. Horton. Young’s Introduction to Medical Literature Mr. Moggridge. Cruikshank’s Anatomy of Absorbing Vessels Earle’s Observations on the Cure of Curved Spine Underwood on Diseases of Children.REGULATIONS RESPECTING THE READING-ROOM. The Reading-room of the School of Medicine is open to every Member of the Profession, hlondays, Wednesdays, and Fri- days, from three o'clock p. m. to six o’clock. Students of the School are admitted to the Reading-room Tuesdays, Tliursdays, and Saturdays, from three o’clock p. m. to six o’clock. \ Curators. . Mr. Walton Mr. Rock Mr. Boulton Mr. Baker Mr. Horton Mr. Amphlett Mr. Crook Mr. Minster.CATALOGUE OF BOOKS. ■ Abemethy, John, F. R. S., Surgical Observations on the Treatment of Local Diseases and Aneurisms, 5 th edition—London, 1820 ——-— Surgical and Physiological Essays— Lo7idon, 1703 ii—— Physiological Lectures and Researches in Comparative Anatomy, 2nd Edition—London, 1822 Aitkin, John, M. D., Elements of Physic and Surgery, 2 vols.—' London, 1782 Armstrong, Geo., M. D., Diseases of Children—London, 1777 - . — John, M. D., Facts and Observations relative to the Fever commonly called Puerperal—Loiidon, 1818 = JMorbid Anatomy, vol. 1, 4to., coloured plates—London, 1828 Practical Observations on Typhus Fe- ver, and Inflammatory Diseases, by N. Potter, M. D.— Philadelphia, 1821 Alcock, Thomas, Observations on the Diseases of Children—Lom- don, 1827 Anatomical Description of the Arterie.:—London, 1811 Dialogues—London, 1792 Abercrombie, John, on Diseases of the Brain and Spinal Chord, 2nd Edition—Edinburgh, 1829. • on the Diseases of the Stomach and other Abdominal Viscera, second edition—Edinburgh, 1830 Alanson, Edward, Practical Observations on Amputation, illus-i trated by Cases, second edition—Londoii, 1791 Ainslie, Whitlaw, M. D. Materia Indica, 2 vols.—London, 1826 Accum, F., Practical Treatise on the Use and Application of Chemical London, 1820 U10 Alcock, Thomas, Practical Observations Adams, Observations on IMorbid Poisons, 2nd edition, coloured plates—London, 1807 on Venereal Disease, 4to., Plates—London, I786 Alibert, Description des iMaladies de la Peau observees a 1’ Hopital St. Louis et exposition des meilleures methodes suivies pour leur traitement, grand folio, figures coloriees—Paris, 1826 Nosologic Naturelle, ou les jVIaladies de Corps Humain, 1 vol. folio, coloured Plates—Paris, 1817 B Barclay, John, on Muscular IMotions—Edinburgh, 1808 ' ■ ■ — M. D., New Anatomical Nomenclature—Edin^ burgh, 1808 Bell, Benjamin, System of Surgery, illustrated with Plates, 7 vols. 7th edition, corrected—Edinburgh, 1791 Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulenta and Lues Vene- rea, 2nd Edition, 2 vols; corrected—Edinburgh John, on the Nature and Cure of Wounds—Edinburgh, 1793 John and Charles, Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body, 3 vols. 7th edition—London, 1829 Bampfield, R. W., an Essay on the Curvatures and Diseases of the Spine, new edition—London, 1824 Birchoff, T. R., ]M. D. an Essay on Clinical IMedicine, translated by Hopp, M. D.—London, 1827 Brande, W. T., Manual of Pharmacy—Lotidon, 1825 Baillie, IMatthew, M. D., Engravings of the IMorbid Anatomy of the Human Body, 10 fas. 4to., 2nd edition—Lojidon, 1812 ■ Works, by James Wardrop, 2 vols — London, 1825 Blizard, Wm., on the Blood Vessels—London, 1783 on Hospitals—London, 1796 Beddoe, IMarmaduke, M. D. on the Electric Fluid,—177^ Burns, John, Principles of Surgery, vol. 1,—London, 1831 Burns, John, M. D. on Midwifery—London, 1809 Brissen, J. T, on Chemistry—London, 180111 Bigelow, Jacob, I\I. D., American Medical Botany, with coloured Engravings, 3 vols.—Boston, 1817 BaiTow, Wm., hi. D., Researches on Pulmonary Phthisis—Liver- pool, 1815 Boerhaave, Herman, A Treatise on the Powers of IMedicine, trans- lated by John Martin—London, 1740 . Hermanno, Institutiones Medicae—Batavorum, 1727 Brown’s View of the Science of Life, on the Principles established in the Elements of Medicine of J. Brown—Calcutta, 1797 Buchan, Alex., hi. D., Symptomatology—London, 1824 Bright, Reports of hledical Cases, 3 vols., coloured Plates, 4to.— London, 1831 Barton, WiUiam, hi. D., Vegetable hlateria hledica of the United States, coloured Plates—Philadelphia, 1817 Boneti, Theophili, Sepulchretum sive Anatomica Practica, ei Ca- daveris hlorbo Deuatus Proponens, 2 vols. folio—Geneva, 1700 Billiard, Atlas d’ Anatomie Pathologique, coloured Plates—Paris, 1828 Bursevius, Jo. Bapt., Institutionum hledicinse Practicae, 8 vols.— Mediolani, 1785 Berard, F., Doctrine des Rapports des Physique et des Moral, 8vo.— Paris, 1823 Boyer, Traite des hlaladies chirurgicales et des Operations, qui leur conviennent, 6 vols., 2nd edition—Paris, 1818 C Calcutta, Transactions of the hledical and Physical Society of, 2 vols. 1825 Chaussier, Recueil des Memoires, Consultations, et Rapports sur di- vers Objets de Medicine legale—Paris, 1824 Cunningham, Disputatio de Cynanche Tracheali Conquest, J. Outlines of Midwifery, 4th edition—London, 1827 Cheselden, S., Anatomy of the Human Body, 11th edition—London, 1778 Cooper, Sir Astley, Lectures on Surgery, 3 \oh,^London, 182412 Cooperj Sir Astley, Treatise on Dislocfitions and Fractures, 6tb edition, 4to—London, 1829 Samuel, First Lines of tlie Practice of Surgery, with Plates, 3rd edition—London, 1830 —^ Dictionary of Practical Surgery, 6th edition, re^ vised and corrected—Londoii, 1830 Cullen, W., M. D., Practice of Physic—London, 1818 Edward, M. D., Clinical Essays—London, 1784 Camphell, Wm., M. D., on Epidemic Puerperal Fever—Edinburgh, 1822 Carter, Francis, hi. D. on Medicine—London, 1800 Cloquet, H., hi. D., System of Human Anatomy, translated by Robert Knox, hi. D., with Notes—Edinburgh, 1828 Clarte, John, on Climate—London, 1809 Carmichael, Richard, Essay on Cancer, 2nd edition—Dublin, 1809 Clutterhuck, Henry, hi. D., on Fever, 2nd edition—London, 1825 Charleton, Walter, hi. D., Enquiries into Human Nature—London, 1680 Cheyne, Geo., hi. D., on the Diseases of the Body and Disorders of the blind—London, 1742 Christison on Poisons Cruveilhier, J. Anatomie Pathologique du Corps Humain, grand folio, figures coloriees—1832 Cruickshank, Anatomy of Absorbing Vessels, coloured Plates, folio—Paris, 1831 Campet, Pierre, Traite pratique des hlaladies graves—Paris, 1802 Cahanis, Rapports des Physique et du hloral, de L’ Homme, 2 vols., Paris, 1823 D Buncan, Andrew, Edinburgh New Dispensatory—Edinburgh, 1808 - hj, D., Practice of Physic, 2 vols.—London, 1793 Dohron, hlatthew, hi. D., on Fixed Air—London, 1785 Dickepson, Nodes, on Burns and Scalds—London, 1818 Dictionnaire do hledicine, par hi. hi. Addon, Bichard, Biett, Bres» chet, Chomel, H. Cloquet, 1. Cloquet, &c., 21 vols.— 182413 E Edinburgh Philosopliical Journal Earle, Janies, Esq., F. R. S., Observations on the Cure of the Curved Spine—London, 1742 Eccles, J., Disputatio IMedica de Dyspepsia P Farr, William, a Treatise on Cancer—London, 1824 Fordyce, George, M. D. F. R. S., Treatise on the Digestion of the Blood—London, 1791 Ford, Edward, F. S. A., Observations on the Diseases of the Hip Joint, illustrated by Engravings and Cases—London, 1794 Foster, F. L. S., on Insanity—London, 1827 Fontana, Felix, on Poisons, translated by Skinner, 2 vols—London, 1787 Frank, Josepho, Praxeos raedicae universes prsecepta, 2 vols.— Leipsic, 1815 G Gregory’s Conspectus Medicinte Theoreticee, translated from Latin, Edinburgh, 1823 Gervino, J., ]\I. D., Treatise on the Principal Diseases of Chil- dren—London, 1829 Golis, Leopold, Treatise on Hydrocephalus Acutus, translated from the German, by Robert Gooch, M. D.—London, 1821 Galeni Opera, 6 vols.—Basilecu, 1549 H Haden, C. T., Practical Observations on the Management of and Diseases of Children, with Additions, by Thomas Alcock— Londoii, 1827 Howship, John, a Treatise on the Secretion and Excretion of Urine London, 182314 Home, Sir Everard, F. R. S., Observations on Cancer—London, 1808 Herdman, John, an Essay on Animal Life—Edinburgh, 1793 Harrison, Edward, hi. D. an Address on hledical Education—Lon. don, 1819 Hamilton, James, hi. D., on hlidwifery—Edinburgh, 1795 Heberton, William, hi. D., Commentaries, 3rd edition—London, 1806 Hutchinson, Copland, Observations on Surgery—London, 1818 Hunter, John, a Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds, new edition. Plates—London, 1828 Higginbottom, Essay on Lunar Caustic—London, 1826 Hey, William, jun. on Puerperal Fever, with Cases—Loiidon, 1815 HaU, hlarshall, hi. D., on the more Important Diseases of Women —London, 1827 Hulme, Nathaniel, hi. D., on Puerperal Fever—London, 1772 Hippocrates, Opera Omnia, 3 vols., auctore Foesio—London, 1595 Hilaire, Saint hi. Jean, Plantes de la France, 4 vols., decrite de Peintes d’ apre Nature—Paris, 1809 Hooper, Robert, hi. D., the hlorbid Anatomy of the Brain, with coloured Engravings—London, 1828 Haller, Bibliotheca Botanica, 2 vols.—Tegari, 1772 Haen, Antonii, Ratio medendi in nosocomico practico, 5 vols.—Fin- doboncB, 1759 J. Johnson, Henry, on Urinary Gravel—Edmburgh, 1806 Jackson, Robert, hi. D. A Sketch of th» History and cure of Fe- brile Diseases. Jewell, Practical Observations on Leucorrhoea (cases)—London, 1830 K. Kentish, Edward, hi. D. an Essay on Burns—London 1817 Kirkland, Thomas, hi. D. a Treatise on Child-bed Fever—London, 177415 L. La\VTence, Anatomlco-chii'urgical Views of the Nose, Mouth, Larynx and Fauces, with appropriate explanations and references, folio, coloured Plates—London, 1809. Lawrence, William, F. R. S. a Treatise on Ruptures—London, 1801 Lizars, John, F. R. S, Anatomical Plates, with explanations— Edinburgh 1822 Laennec, on Diseases of the Chest and Auscultation—Londo7i, 1829 Lind, James, M. D. an Ess^y on Diseases incidental to Euro- peans in hot climates—London, 1808 Lohstein, Traite d’Anatomie Pathologique, fol. Plates, coloured, 4 fas.—Strasburgh, 1829 ' Lieutaud, Joseph, Regis Galliffi quondam Archiatrorum Comitis Historia Anatomico Medica, 3 vols.—Gothoe, 1796 Louis, Recherches sur la Phthisic—Paris, 1825 M. IVIale, George, hi. D. Elements of Forensic Medicine, 2nd. Editiort enlarged—London, 1818 Mackenzie, History of Health—Loiidon, 1717 Martin, Benjamin, a new Theory of Consumption, 2nd Edition—-■ London, 1722 Monro, Alexander, M. D. the IMorbid Anatomy of the Brain—r Edhiburgh, 1827 Anatomy of the Human Body, 3 vols.—< Edinburgh, 1813 — - ' Observations on the Structure and Func-’ tions of the Nervous System, Plates—Edinburgh, 1783 Mauri, Francis, on the Diseases of Women with Child and iit Child-bed, sixth Edition—London, 1727 Murray, Adolphus, M. D. on the Arteries—Edinburgh, 1801 Medical Observations, 6 vols.—London Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, 16 volumes—Lo«c?o;i Milligan, Edward, M. D. Medicines Corn. Celsi—London, 1826' ^ledical SketchesU) Muchilivain, George, on the Diseases of the Mucous Canals on In- guinal Tumours and Tracheotomy, second Edition—Londonj 1830 Morgagni, de Sedibus et Causos IMorborum Pricfatus est Tissot, 3 vols. quarto—Ehrodum in Helvetia, 1779 IMeckel, Tabulae Anatomico Pathologic^, folio, 4 livs, Leijjxic, 1820 IVIajendie, Ti ]\I. D. an Elementary Compendium of Pliysiology^ translated by E. Milligan, I\I. D.—Edinburgh, 1823 N. Nisbett, William, SI. D. Chemical Guide, 3 vols.—London, 1802 - School of STedicine, 4 vols.—London, 1800 Nicholson, WiUiam, an Introduction to Natural Philosophy, 2 vols< London, 1782 ■ Dictionary of Practical and Theoretical Che- mistry, with Plates and Tables—London, 1808 P. Parkes, Samuel, F. L. S. Chemical Catechism, fourth Edition—- London, 1824 Prout, William, M. D. F. R. S. an Enquiry into the Nature and Treatment of Diabetes, Calculus, and other affections of the Urinary Organs, second Edition—London, 1825 Pepcival, Medical Ethics, or a Code of Institutes and Precepts adapted to the Professional Conduct of Physicians and Sur- geons—London, 1827 Philip, Wilson, M. D. Treatise on Indigestion and its consequences, sixth Edition—London, 1828 Pearson, Richard, M. D. Thesaurus Medicaminum; selection of For- mulae, accompanied by Practical Remarks, fourth Edition— London, 1810 Pritchard, J. C. M. D. on the Nervous System—London, 1822 Ploucquet, G. W. Litteratura Bledicae, 4 vols. 4to—Taburgae, 1809 Pugh, on Muscular Action, Plates, 4to.17 Q. Quesney, John^ M. D. Physical Dictionary—London, 1719 Quarterly Joumalj complete R. Richerandj A, Elements of Physiology translated by G. I. M. De LySj fourth Edition with Notes by J. Coplandj M. D.— London, 1824 Ramsay, Anatomy of the Head, Cranium, and Brain, coloured Plates, second Edition, 4to.—Edinburgh, 1813 Russel, James, on Scrofula—1808 Ramsden, Practical Observations on the Disease of the Testicle— London, 1811 Rucco, Julius, M. D. Introduction to the Science of the Pulse, in 2 vols.—London, 1827 Rigby, Edward, F. L. S. on Uterine Haemorrhage, third Edition— London, 1811 Roques, Phytographie Medicale, 2 vols. ornee de figures coloriees de grandeur natureUe, 4to.—Paris, 1821 Rcederer, I. G. et Wagler, Traite de la Maladie Mucuese—Paris, 1806 S. Swan, Joseph, on Tetanus,—London, 1825 Stafford, Richard, on Stricture of the Urethra—London, 1826 T. F. R. S. on the Eye—Lo7idon, 1828 Sharpe, Samuel, F. R. S. State of Surgery—London. 1750 ———Treatise on Surgery, 2 vols. fifth Edition, London, 1745 Sydenham, Thomas, M .D., Praxis Bledica Experimentalis sive Opus- cula Universa—Lipsise, 1695 ... , , ■ . . — Observationes Medicse circa Morborum Acutorum Historium ct Curationem—XowtZwii, 1685 Smith, Sir J., English Flora, 4 vols., 2nd edition—Zoncfo7«, 1828 C18 Saunders, William, M, D., Elements of the Practice of Physic London, 1780 Singer, G. I., Elements of Electricity and Electro-Chemistry> 2nd edition—London, 1814 Spitlall, Robert, on Auscultations, with cases—Edinburgh, 1830 Soemmering, leones Emhryonium humanorum—Francqfort, 1799 S. II., De IMorhis Vasorum Absorbentium Corporis Humani—Manum, 1795 Solomon, Disputatio Pathologica de quibusdam Tumoribus Sandifort, hluseum Anatomicum, 3 vols., grand folio. Plates— Lugdimi Bat., 1793—1827 T Turner, Edward, IM. D., Elements of Chemistry, including the recent discoveries, 2nd edition—London, 1828 Thomson, John, hi. D., Lectures on Inflammation, &c. &c.—Edin- burgh, 1813 Teidemann, Tabulae Arteriarum, folio—Carlsejihce, 1822 ■ Explicatio Tabulae—Carlsenhoe, 1822 Transactions of the Royal Society, abridged, 18 vols.—1809 U & V Ure, Andrew, M. D., Dictionary of Chemistry, vrith an introduc- tory Dissertation—London, 1821 ' ■ ■ 3rd edition,—London, 1827 Valanger, D., M. D., a Treatise on Diet—London, 1768 Underwood, Michael, M. D. on the Diseases of Children, revised— Philadelphia, 1793 * W Wilson, Andrew, SI. D., Obseiwations on Morbid Sympathies— Edinburgh, 1818 ■ ■ ■ T., Pharmacopcea Chirurgica—London, White, Robert, on Hydrophobia—London, 1826 Whately, Thomas, on Necrosis of the Tibia—Lo?jrfo», 181519 Ward, William, F. L. S, on Strictures of the Urethra, 2nd edition, —London, 1822 Withering, IM. D., F. R. S., Miscellaneous Tracts, 2 vols.—London 1822 Walkens, Francis, on Electricity—London, 1828 Ware, James, IM. D., F. R. S., Observations on Cataract and Gutta Serena, 3rd Edition—'X-owi/ort, 1812 WoodviUe, JMedical Botany, 4 vols. with Plates, 2nd edition—Lon- don, 1810 Wadd, William, Cases of Diseased Bladder and Testicle, with En- gravings, 4to.—London, 1815 Walter, Plates of the Thoracic and Abdominal Nerves, 4to, coloured — London, 1804 Wermer, IMusei Wormiani Historia, Luqd. Batio, folio—1655 Wallis, George, M. D., an Essay on Gout—London, 1798 Y. Young, Thomas, M. D. Introduction to Medical Literature, 2nd edition—London, 1823 Samuel, on Cancer—London, 1805 Young, on the hlodern Practice of Adhesion, 4to.— London, 1808 ' The following Journals will lie upon the Table. The Lancet The Medical Gazette Brande’s Journal of the Royal Institution The IMidland hledical Reporter Journal Hebdomodaire de Medecine The Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal Revue Medicale Fran9aise et Etrangere Journal de Clinique, &c. BARLOW, PniKTEH, BIRMINGHAM.